2019 
Sustainability Report
Caterpillar’ s Environmental, 
Social and Governance Approach  
  3 CEO MESSAGE
  5  SUSTAINABILITY AT CATERPILLAR
  8  ESG DATA
12  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 13  Risk Management  
 13  Political Contributions
14 ENERGY & EMISSIONS
17  FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONS 
19 MATERIALS
Visit caterpillar.com/sustainability  to read stories about how  
Caterpillar puts sustainability into action.  
OUR SOLUTIONS HELP OUR CUSTOMERS  
BUILD A BETTER WORLD.
20 REMANUFACTURING
22 PEOPLE  
 22  Employee  Health & Safety  
 24  Talent Development  
 26  Diversity & Inclusion  
 26  Human Rights  
 27  Philanthropy
28 DATA ASSURANCE STATEMENT
29 SASB INDEX
30  ENDNOTESTABLE OF  
CONTENTSA generator set powered by methane from landfills. A dual-fuel 
engine that can burn natural gas, resulting in lower emissions. 
An autonomous technology solution that substantially 
improves efficiency, productivity and safety.
These are just a few of the many ways that Caterpillar’s vast 
range of products and solutions helps our customers build a 
better world. As our business grows, our potential for positive 
impact grows — driven by the successful execution of our 
enterprise strategy which we introduced in 2017 . We have 
already achieved meaningful progress in financial results 
and in our ability to support the work of our customers 
around the world. 
OUR STRATEGY SUPPORTS SUSTAINABILITY 
Our strategy contains three elements: operational excellence, 
expanded offerings and services, and is underpinned by 
Caterpillar’s Values in Action. Those Values, including 
Sustainability, are guidelines for the way we act with  
each other, our suppliers, and our customers every day. 
Positive business outcomes are closely aligned with positive 
social and environmental impacts. For example, the first 
element of our strategy, operational excellence, translates 
into initiatives that improve safety, deliver high-quality 
products and implement Lean operating principles. The most 
important result is continuing to have Caterpillar employees 
return home safe to their families, and in 2019, we saw our best safety performance on record. Operational excellence 
also offers important environmental sustainability benefits, 
particularly decreasing the volume of resources needed to 
manufacture our products. 
Expanded offerings, the second element of our strategy, 
means having the right products and solutions to make our 
customers more successful. These offerings include products 
that provide sustainability benefits, including lower emissions 
profiles and reduced operating costs. We introduced the 
world’s first high drive Electric Drive dozer this year, the Cat® 
D6 XE. It offers up to 35% better fuel efficiency compared to 
previous models, increasing productivity and helping our 
customers succeed in a more sustainable way.
The services element of our strategy encompasses the many  
ways Caterpillar helps our customers succeed after they buy  
a piece of equipment. These include increasingly advanced 
digital capabilities, such as fleet analytics that help customers 
complete their jobs more efficiently, as well as remanufacturing 
and rebuild offerings that extend the life of equipment, reducing 
operating costs and keeping resources in circulation.
DRIVING TOWARD A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 
As we continue to execute our enterprise strategy for profitable 
growth, we are also executing our 2020 sustainability goals. 
These include goals related to safety, energy and emissions, 
water, waste, building efficiency, circular economy, jobsite 
TO OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS:
Caterpillar imagines a better world  
— one that we are striving to  
achieve through our business. 
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  3  / efficiency and sustainability of our products, services and 
solutions. We are proud to have already achieved or exceeded 
several of these goals and are setting our sights on the future. 
You can read more about our progress to date and efforts 
underway to establish goals beyond 2020 on Pages 5-6 of  
this report. 
WORKING TOWARD A BETTER WORLD 
Year after year, Caterpillar customers are working to address 
the demands of a growing global population, an emerging 
middle class in the developing world, and an increasingly 
urbanized society. The company supplements that great work 
with the targeted efforts of the Caterpillar Foundation. Since 
1952, the Foundation has donated about $770 million to build 
resilient communities around the world. We are proud of our 
Foundation’s ability to contribute to building a better world. 
We are pleased to have been named to the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices (DJSI), including both the World  
and North America indices. Caterpillar was also named to 
Fortune’s World’s Most Admired Companies List, and we  
were in the Top 50 of that list for the 19th consecutive year. 
As I write this letter, COVID-19 has become a global pandemic, 
presenting new challenges around the world. Governments 
responded with guidance to manage the crisis and, in many 
instances, operations such as Caterpillar's are considered 
essential activity for support of critical infrastructure. Customers 
use our products to provide primary and stand-by power for 
hospitals, grocery stores and data centers; transport food and 
critical supplies in trucks, ships and locomotives; maintain 
clean water and sewer systems; mine commodities and extract 
the fuels essential to satisfy global energy demand. Along 
with our dealers and suppliers, Caterpillar is working to help ensure uninterrupted access to the products and services 
that our customers rely upon to support society during these 
difficult times.
While we are serving this important need, Caterpillar remains 
dedicated to the safety, health and well-being of our employees. 
We are leveraging our strong safety culture to manage through 
this pandemic. Employees who can work from home are doing 
so. In our facilities that remain open, Caterpillar is taking 
appropriate precautions and implementing safeguards to 
protect our team members. We have increased the frequency 
of cleaning and disinfecting facilities with special attention to 
common areas; we are following social distancing practices 
and are implementing other measures consistent with specific 
regulatory requirements and guidance from health authorities.
In addition, the Caterpillar Foundation has committed  
$10 million to directly support global COVID-19 response 
activities and help organizations that have been impacted. 
These investments are an important expression of our company’s 
values and will provide support for communities around  
the world.
Caterpillar imagines a better world – one that we are striving 
to achieve through our business. As our customers help meet 
the infrastructure, energy and resource needs of tomorrow, 
we are dedicated to helping create a future that offers a better 
life for all. 
 
 
Jim Umpleby 
Chairman and CEO
” The most important result is continuing 
to have Caterpillar employees return 
home safe to their families, and in 2019, 
we saw our best safety performance  
on record. ”
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  4  / SUSTAINABILITY AT CATERPILLAR
Caterpillar’s enterprise strategy focuses on solutions 
to help our customers build a better world and enables 
us to deliver long-term profitable growth for our 
employees and shareholders. The enterprise strategy 
also helps further our sustainability journey, 
providing new opportunities for customers, 
employees and communities.
We have identified a set of focus areas that are relevant 
to our business and that guide environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) initiatives and decision-making 
throughout our global operations, as well as the content 
of this report. These focus areas are closely aligned with topics covered by the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Sustainable Industry 
Classification System (SICS), Resource Transformation 
sector and Industrial Machinery & Goods industry. 
As part of our goal-setting efforts, we are reevaluating 
ESG focus areas for Caterpillar beyond 2020. Our 
existing focus areas will be amended to include 
recommendations from SASB and outcomes of the 
ongoing assessment process. 
OUR VISION
A world in which all people’s 
basic needs – such as shelter, 
clean water, sanitation, food 
and reliable power – are 
fulfilled in a sustainable way 
and a company that improves 
the quality of the environment 
and the communities 
where we live  and work.SUSTAINABILITY
PRINCIPLES
Prevent waste  
safety, efficiency  
and  productivity 
Improve quality
team, community,  
operations and environment
Develop better systems
innovateOUR MISSION
Enable economic growth  
through infrastructure  
and energy development  
and provide solutions that 
support communities  
and protect the planet.
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
We provide work 
environments, products, 
services and solutions that 
make safe, productive and 
efficient use of resources as we 
strive to achieve our vision.We are executing our strategy by working to meet our aspirational sustainability goals.
We apply innovation and 
technology to improve the 
sustainability performance of 
Caterpillar’s products, services, 
solutions and operations.We believe sustainable progress 
is made possible by developing 
better systems that maximize 
life cycle benefits, while also 
minimizing the economic, social 
and environmental costs of 
ownership, as reflected in our 
sustainability principles. 
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  5  / SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
Caterpillar sets aspirational, long-term ESG goals for its operations and product stewardship initiatives. We announced our 
first set of goals in 2006, and in 2013 we refreshed the goals with new targets. As we approach the conclusion of these goals  
at the end of 2020, we are progressing well toward many, and are proud of our progress to date. We have already achieved 
several of them, including achieving a recordable injury frequency below 0.60, reaching a lost-time case frequency rate of 0.15, 
achieving a greenhouse gas emissions intensity reduction of more than 50% from 2006, increasing managed fleet hours by 
more than 100% from 2013 and sourcing more than 20% of our energy needs with alternative and renewable sources.
 
While our work continues in 2020, we have already begun the process of establishing new goals that will enhance our 
company’s performance and impact. We are working with both external parties and leaders throughout our organization  
to ensure we choose appropriate metrics that support our progress within our sustainability focus areas. We look forward 
to continued progress as we enter this next phase of our sustainability journey.
2020 GOALS FOR OPERATIONS
  Reduce recordable workplace injury rates to  
0.60 and lost-time case rate due to injury to 0.15
  Reduce energy intensity by 50% from 2006
  Reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity  
by 50% from 2006
  Use alternative/renewable sources to meet  
20% of our energy needs
  Reduce water consumption intensity by 50% 
from 2006
  Reduce by-product materials intensity by 50% 
from 2006
  Design all new facility construction to meet 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design 
(LEED) or comparable green building criteria
2020 GOALS FOR PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
  Provide leadership in the safety of people  
in, on and around our products 
  Leverage technology and innovation to 
improve sustainability of our products, 
services and solutions for our customers
  Increase managed fleet hours by 100%  
from 2013
  Increase remanufactured and rebuild  
business sales by 20% from 2013
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  6  / Our sustainability efforts do not exist in isolation. 
Caterpillar’s stakeholders are increasingly interested  
in how we are confronting opportunities and risks 
related to a variety of ESG issues. We understand  
that true sustainability requires cooperation among 
governments, companies and their stakeholders –  
and we have an important role to play.
 
To this end, Caterpillar is setting future goals that will 
support our sustainability efforts (learn more on Page 6). 
In doing so, we listen to stakeholders and incorporate 
feedback across our business functions. For example,  
we consider ESG topics in interactions with investors 
coordinated through our investor relations team;  
with suppliers through our procurement teams;  
and with customers through our customer services  
team. In addition, our Caterpillar Sustainability Steering 
Committee provides internal guidance, expertise and 
support for our sustainability initiatives. All of these serve 
as key inputs for the work of our sustainability team.
 To provide further transparency to investors, our 2019 
Sustainability Report has been prepared, for the first time, 
in alignment with Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) criteria. SASB publishes sector-specific 
reporting standards that are based on expert input  
and designed to allow businesses to identify the 
sustainability issues of highest importance to investors 
and most relevant in their industry.
 
Finally, we are working toward a common global purpose 
with contributions to the U.N. Sustainable Development 
Goals (UN SDGs). Given the breadth of our products, 
services and solutions, our advocacy on behalf of 
policies that enable sustainable development, and  
the efforts of the Caterpillar Foundation to build resilient 
communities, Caterpillar and our customers are helping  
to build a more sustainable future. LOOKING AHEAD
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  7  / BASELINE  
20062016 2017 2018 2019GOAL  
2020PERSPECTIVE
PEOPLE DATA
Total number of employees N/A 95,400 98,400 104,000 102,300 N/A
Number of employees outside 
of the United StatesN/A 54,500 56,200 59,400 58,700 N/A
Women in enterprise N/A 20% 20% 20% 20% 29%  
(2022)Our Women in Leadership initiative  
is an intentional, focused step on a 
continuous journey toward a globally 
diverse team. We have set an aspirational 
goal of 29% women in the enterprise and 
25% women in leadership by 2022.Women in leadership N/A 19% 19% 19% 20%25% 
(2022)
Collective bargaining
% of employees covered N/A 34% 41% 40% 41% N/AWe respect the right of our employees  
to form, join or not to join any lawful 
organization of their choice without fear 
of reprisal, interference, intimidation or 
harassment. We believe it is important 
for individuals to exercise that right with 
the benefit of available information. 
SAFETY
Lost-time case  
frequency rate (LTCFR)/A/
worker-related injuries  
resulting in lost time per  
200,000 hours worked2.97 
(2003)0.19 0.17 0.16 0.15 0.15We have improved our lost-time case 
frequency rate (LTCFR) by 95% from our 
2003 base year. We are encouraged that 
our LTCFR declined by approximately 6% 
from 2018 to 2019.
Recordable injury frequency 
(RIF)/A/
recordable injuries per 200,000 
hours worked6.22 
(2003)0.50 0.49 0.53 0.43 0.60We have improved our recordable 
injury frequency (RIF) rate by 93% 
from our 2003 base year. Our RIF 
decreased by 19% from 2018 to 2019.ESG DATA
N/A = Not Applicable   /A/ Data assured by ERM CVS. Please see Page 28 for the data assurance statement.
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  8  / ESG DATA
BASELINE  
20062016 2017 2018 2019GOAL  
2020PERSPECTIVE
Employee fatalities N/A 2 0 1 0 N/AOur vision of everyone returning home 
safely, every day has not waivered.  
We are saddened to report one of our 
contractors suffered a fatal workplace 
injury in one of our facilities in 2019. We 
are dedicated to the safety of everyone 
working at Caterpillar. We encourage 
our extended team of contractors, 
dealers, suppliers and customers to 
focus on safety for their operations  
and employees.Contractor fatalities N/A 0 0 1 1 N/A
ENERGY – OPERATIONS
Total energy use/A/ 
gigajoules1 28,720,000 23,050,000 23,690,000 25,540,000 25,330,000 N/A
We're making strides to lower our energy 
use and improve energy efficiency.Total electricity/A/ 
million MWhN/A 2.37 2.45 2.55 2.38 N/A
Grid electricity  
%N/A N/A N/A N/A 83.8 N/AIn 2019, Caterpillar began reporting  
grid electricity data based on SASB 
recommendations. Data for years  
prior is not available.
Renewable energy2 
%N/A 1 7. 8 16.9 1 7. 4 21.2
20In 2019, 35.5% of our electrical energy 
was obtained from renewable or 
alternative sources, exceeding our  
2020 goal.Alternative energy3 
%N/A 10.1 14.3 15.1 14.3
Energy intensity/A/ 
absolute gigajoules energy  
use/million dollars of sales  
and revenues692 598 521 467 471 346In 2019 we reduced our energy intensity 
by 32% from our 2006 baseline.
EMISSIONS – OPERATIONS
Absolute greenhouse gas/A/
(GHG) emissions  
million metric tons CO2e2.990 2.128 2.119 2.207 1.774 N/A
Our absolute GHG emissions decreased 
by 20% from 2018 to 2019 and decreased 
by 41% from 2006 to 2019.Scope 1/A/ 
Direct emissions  
million metric tonsN/A 0.863 0.863 0.927 0.905 N/A
Scope 2/A/ 
Market-based   
indirect emissions from 
purchased electricity,  
heat or steam  
million metric tonsN/A 1.265 1.256 1.280 0.869 N/A
Scope 2/A/ 
Location-based4 
million metric tonsN/A 1.314 1.291 1.322 0.926 N/A
GHG intensity5 /A/ 
absolute metric tons  
of CO2e/million dollars  
of sales and revenues72.1 54.2 46.4 40.4 33.0 36.0In 2019 we reduced our GHG emissions 
intensity by 54% from our 2006 baseline, 
achieving our 2020 goal.
N/A = Not Applicable   /A/ Data assured by ERM CVS. Please see Page 28 for the data assurance statement.
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  9  / ESG DATA
BASELINE  
20062016 2017 2018 2019GOAL  
2020PERSPECTIVE
WATER – OPERATIONS
Total water/A/ 
billion gallons5.91 3.87 4.04 3.85 3.74 N/A
In 2019 we reduced our absolute water 
consumption by 37% from our baseline 
year of 2006 and 3% from 2018 to 2019.Noncontact cooling water/A/ 
billion gallons2.74 1.37 1.40 1.26 1.31 N/A
T otal water consumption  
by source6
Non-contact cooling water/A/N/A 35.0% 34.7% 32.8% 35.2% N/A
Municipal water/A/N/A 28.0% 28.7% 30.6% 30.8% N/A
Surface water/A/N/A 15.0% 16.8% 18.3% 18.0% N/A
Other water/A/N/A 0.0% 0.2% 0.4% 0.7% N/A
Groundwater/A/N/A 22.0% 19.5% 17 .9% 15.4% N/A
Water consumption intensity7 /A/
absolute thousand gallons of 
water/million dollars of sales  
and revenues76.3 66.0 58.1 47 .3 45.0 38.2Through 2019, we have reduced water 
consumption intensity at our facilities  
by a total of 41% from 2006, and 5% 
from 2018 to 2019.
WASTE – OPERATIONS
Total waste  
metric tons574,000 560,000 599,000 635,000 587 ,000 N/AOur generation of total absolute by-product 
materials increased 2% from 2006 to 2019 
but decreased 8% from 2018 to 2019.
Waste intensity  
absolute metrics tons of by-
product materials/million dollars 
of sales and revenues13.8 14.5 13.2 11.6 10.9 6.9In 2019, we reduced our waste intensity 
by 21% from our 2006 baseline and 
decreased 6% from the previous year. 
Also, we are pleased to see the percent 
of our waste recycled continue to 
increase year-over-year.Waste recycled  
%84.1 82.8 83.5 86.8 87 .1 N/A
PRODUCTS
Reported sales and revenues8 
derived from products, services 
and solutions that demonstrate 
an improved sustainability benefit 
over prior offerings N/A 21% 21% 22% 27% N/ACaterpillar has a long history of and  
a strong process for innovation in the 
research and development of products 
and solutions.
Fleet hours9 
increase in fleet hours managed 
by Job Site Solutions since 2013N/A 98% 124% 280% 510% 100%Caterpillar Job Site Solutions (JSS) 
helps customers realize savings 
through reduced operator and repair 
needs, as well as decreased fuel use 
and associated emissions. Demand 
from our customers continues to grow 
for solutions provided by our JSS team 
working together with our Cat® dealers.Service agreements  
increase in machines covered by 
service agreements with Job Site 
Solutions since 2013N/A 126% 151% 321% 501% N/A
MATERIALS
Supplier Code of Conduct  
self-assessmentsN/A 13% 39% 39% 67% 95%Since 2016, Caterpillar has proactively 
surveyed our priority supply base  
to confirm alignment to Caterpillar’s 
published Supplier Code of Conduct. 
Caterpillar uses assessment response 
data to address supply chain risk through 
a collaborative approach with responding 
suppliers. The 2020 target reflects 
continued focus on this initiative.
N/A = Not Applicable   /A/ Data assured by ERM CVS. Please see Page 28 for the data assurance statement.
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  10  / ESG DATA
BASELINE  
20062016 2017 2018 2019GOAL  
2020PERSPECTIVE
REMANUFACTURING
Growth in remanufacturing 
business10 
% business sales growth since 2013N/A -13% 2% 7% 3%
20%
Our remanufacturing and rebuild 
businesses provide customers with 
immediate cost savings, help extend 
product life cycles and use materials 
more efficiently. We seek to continue  
to grow these businesses.Growth in rebuild business10 
% business sales growth since 2013N/A -10% 14% 17% 14%
Product take-back by weight10,11 
millions of pounds of end-of-life 
material receivedN/A 125 130 155 153 N/A
Product take-back by %10,11 
% of actual end-of-life returns/
eligible returnsN/A 91% 92% 92% 91% N/A
SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION
Buildings designed  
in accordance with the U.S. 
Green Building Council’s LEED 
BD+C (Building Design and 
Construction) certification 
process of comparable criteriaN/A 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%Facilities designed to the LEED criteria 
are more energy- and resource-efficient 
than traditional construction. In 2019, 
we completed construction of our new 
Surface Mining & Technology office  
in Tucson, Arizona. The new building 
met the requirements of certification  
in accordance with the U.S. Green 
Building Council’s LEED BD+C (Building 
Design and Construction) process.
PHILANTHROPY
Community investments  
millions of dollarsN/A $36.8 $33 $27 $28.6 N/ASince 1952, the Caterpillar Foundation 
has contributed about $770 million  
to help make sustainable progress 
possible around the world by building 
resilient communities that thrive  
in a rapidly changing world.
People impacted (cumulative)  
millionsN/A 38.6 46.5 48.1 50.1 50In 2013, the Caterpillar Foundation set out 
to place 50 million people on the path  
to prosperity by 2020. Together with  
our nonprofit partners, we are proud  
of the impact we’ve had on individuals 
and in communities around the world.
Matching gifts9,12 
millions of dollarsN/A $3.2 $6.0 $4.1 $3.5 N/AThe Caterpillar Foundation is proud  
to match our U.S. employees, retirees 
and board of directors’ contributions  
to eligible organizations.
United Way13 
millions of dollarsN/A $11.5 $11.4 $11.8 $12.2 N/ACaterpillar has supported the United 
Way for more than 60 years through  
our annual campaign. The Foundation 
matches employee and retiree gifts 
during the campaign, amplifying  
our impact on the communities  
where we live and work. 
N/A = Not Applicable   /A/ Data assured by ERM CVS. Please see Page 28 for the data assurance statement.
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  11  / 2019
Size of Board 11
Number of Independent Directors 10
Average Age of Directors 64
Average Director Tenure (in years) 11
Annual Election of Directors Yes
Mandatory Retirement Age 74
Gender and Diversity 45%
Majority Voting in Director Elections Yes
Independent Presiding Director Yes
Code of Conduct for Directors, Officers and Employees Yes
Supermajority Voting Threshold for Mergers No
Proxy Access Yes
Shareholder Action by Written Consent No
Shareholder Ability to Call Special Meetings Yes
Poison Pill No
Stock Ownership Guidelines for Directors and Executive Officers Yes
Anti-Hedging and Pledging Policies Yes
Clawback Policy Yes
We believe that a strong governance framework creates long-term value for our shareholders, 
strengthens board and management accountability and builds trust in the company and our brand.  
Our governance framework includes the following highlights:CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  12  / The Public Policy and Governance Committee of our board  
of directors oversees the company's sustainability efforts  
as well as efforts on environmental, health and safety activities, 
including Caterpillar's products and services that support 
sustainable development of global resources. This committee 
also reviews Caterpillar’s annual political contributions  
and recommends the amount the company should contribute  
to the Caterpillar Foundation. The committee provides regular 
updates to the board and may retain advisors and consultants 
as needed to assist it in fulfilling its responsibilities. 
In addition, all Caterpillar employees are annually required  
to complete training on our Code of Conduct. As part of this 
training, employees must certify that they have read, 
understand and will comply with the Code of Conduct. 
 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
Risk is an inherent part of conducting global business. 
Caterpillar regularly identifies and monitors business risks 
through a robust internal management system and engages 
in constructive regulation and public policy discussions that 
benefit employees, customers and shareholders. We manage 
operational, strategic, financial and legal compliance risks 
in several ways, including Caterpillar’s Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) program and Compliance program.
Each year, we conduct a comprehensive enterprise risk 
assessment by reviewing risk information from multiple 
sources, including business units. To better inform our 
decision-making, Caterpillar evaluates risks at the business 
unit and enterprise levels on three dimensions:
 Impact  Likelihood   Risk Trend
The results of this ERM risk assessment are incorporated  
into action plans to mitigate the identified risks. The importance 
of following the corporate ERM process is communicated 
throughout the organization from the CEO down. As a result, 
we have seen strong engagement among senior leaders. 
Operationally, our risk culture is embedded within the business 
through performance scorecards. The company’s officers share 
accountability for business risks, and the board has oversight 
of the enterprise process. The board implements its risk 
oversight function both as a board and through delegation  
to board committees, which meet regularly and report back  
to the board. The board has delegated the oversight of specific 
risks to board committees that align with their functional 
responsibilities. We integrate enterprise and business unit  
risk mitigation plans into individual performance goals of  
the Executive Office members. We compensate senior 
executives in part according to their ability to mitigate  
the risks as described in their performance goals.We also review compliance risks as part of the ERM risk 
assessment process and manage them as part of Caterpillar’s 
Compliance program. These risks cover a broad range  
of issues, including legal and regulatory compliance. 
The Compliance program establishes enterprise-level 
compliance expectations. Business unit personnel and 
compliance professionals implement controls and processes 
to meet those requirements with the support of compliance 
professionals, legal personnel and subject matter advisors 
with specific expertise. These efforts are enhanced by 
regular communications, training and annual assessment 
processes. Through these programs, Caterpillar can better 
manage risk and gauge the potential impact of various 
outcomes on our ability to achieve strategic goals.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 
Caterpillar's products and services alone are not enough  
to ensure our success. The actions taken by governments 
around the world can have significant impact – both 
positive and negative – on Caterpillar, our employees, 
dealers, suppliers and customers. We advocate for policies, 
agreements, legislation and regulations that enable us to 
help our customers build a better world. Our global teams 
advocate on appropriate issues in a manner consistent  
with all governing laws and Our Values in Action . 
Where allowable by law, Caterpillar may make corporate 
contributions to campaigns, individual candidates or political 
committees in order to support public policies we believe will 
promote our business interests. All political and advocacy 
activities at the state, federal and international levels are 
managed by the vice president of Global Government & 
Corporate Affairs, who coordinates and reviews with senior 
management the legislative and regulatory priorities that  
are significant to the company’s business as well as related 
advocacy activities. In addition, the board’s Public Policy  
and Governance Committee reviews Caterpillar’s significant 
legislative and regulatory priorities, policy on political activities 
and contributions, corporate political contributions, trade 
association participation and the political contribution activities 
of the Caterpillar Political Action Committee (CATPAC).
CATPAC contributions are made only in federal and state 
elections. CATPAC is funded through voluntary contributions 
by eligible individuals, who primarily are U.S.-based employees. 
A steering committee comprised of Caterpillar non-officer 
employees who represent a diverse mix of U.S. locations and 
business units oversees all CATPAC disbursements to ensure 
they promote the company’s business interests. 
Caterpillar also maintains memberships in trade associations 
and business groups that may engage in advocacy on behalf 
of segments of the business community. We are committed 
to supporting these organizations, which champion public 
policies that contribute to the success and growth of the 
business community. 
Additional information regarding Caterpillar’s corporate 
contributions, CATPAC contributions and trade association 
memberships is available on our political engagement website .Learn more about our governance 
framework at the following:
   Corporate Governance initiatives and  
board composition in Caterpillar’s  
Proxy Statement
  Board Committees
 Caterpillar  Code of ConductCORPORATE GOVERNANCE
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  13  / SASB Code: RT-IG-130a.1
Global demand for energy is expected to increase significantly over the next 25 years according to the 
International Energy Agency, and Caterpillar will continue to play a key role by providing products and 
services to industries that enable access to reliable energy. As a global energy consumer and industrial 
manufacturer, as well as a major manufacturer of energy conversion and power generation products, 
Caterpillar has a fundamental interest in, and understanding of, energy needs around the world. ENERGY  
& EMISSIONS
We provide products with leading integrated technology  
to various energy customers and leverage our technology 
and innovation to meet the world’s growing energy needs.  
In our own operations, we’re making strides to lower our 
energy use and environmental impact. Read more in our 
energy and climate  policy.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Caterpillar manages hundreds of facilities around the world 
that require energy to power our operations. As a manufacturer 
of heavy equipment, Caterpillar has some operations that are 
energy-intensive. To mitigate our impact, we have set energy 
efficiency targets in our operations since 1998 and greenhouse 
gas emission (GHG) reduction targets since 2003. In addition, 
our 2020 sustainability goals include targets for energy, 
greenhouse gas emissions, water and waste in our operations. 
We are making progress toward these goals by improving 
energy efficiency, investing in alternative and renewable 
power generation sources, implementing water conservation 
projects and managing waste through remanufacturing, 
rebuilding, reuse and recycling. Continuous improvement  
is an important part of this approach, with new manufacturing 
technologies and best practices quickly creating new 
opportunities for greater efficiency.
 Our high-performance standards for environmental, health 
and safety (EHS) require compliance with, and at times 
extend beyond, laws and regulations. Our EHS assurance 
manual outlines Caterpillar’s EHS Management System  
and establishes fundamental requirements that apply at all 
workplaces globally, including majority-owned subsidiaries 
and majority-owned joint ventures. Our facilities assess 
compliance with our requirements annually, and our EHS 
assessment team reviews those assessments while also 
conducting deeper reviews of certain facilities each year.  
The EHS assessment team is responsible for the following 
activities related to assessments: 
   Planning, scheduling and conducting assessments
    Maintaining oversight, accountability, consistency  
and good performance
   Monitoring and recording assessment issues and 
completing action plan items
    Providing one source for EHS auditor tools, standards  
and specifications, assessment schedules, training/
opening presentations and associated data
   Reporting assessment results to corporate EHS  
senior management
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  14  / Beyond meeting standard expectations, we encourage facilities 
to implement their own initiatives to improve safety, decrease 
energy use and increase productivity. Facilities evaluate 
potential initiatives based on the total annual investment 
required, total anticipated cost savings and average pay-back 
period. We also invite facilities to report emission reduction 
activities through internal awards and recognition processes.
Energy management is an important component of EHS 
management. Our enterprise energy management team  
is instrumental in building awareness, encouraging action  
and developing solutions in the areas of energy efficiency  
and alternative/renewable power generation. These solutions 
include purchasing renewable energy certificates and installing 
renewable energy sources, such as photovoltaics (PV) or a 
microgrid installation that combines PV with battery storage 
to supplement and offset electricity generated with diesel fuel 
at an off-grid location. Our largest contribution to alternative 
energy consumption is the operation of combined heat and 
power (CHP) systems to power several manufacturing facilities. 
In 2019, 35.5% of our electrical energy was from renewable  
or alternative sources. The energy management team is 
evaluating additional opportunities for replication of CHP ,  
PV and microgrids at other locations. We also continue to 
assess new ways to upgrade systems and make facilities  
more energy-efficient.
ENERGY & EMISSIONS
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  15  / Energy Goal
32%  Operational energy intensity 
decreased 32% from 2006 to 2019, and increased 1% 
from 2018 to 2019. While absolute energy decreased 
slightly from 2018 to 2019, it decreased by 12% overall 
from 2006 to 2019. These results reflect our increased 
productivity and efficiency.Reduce energy intensity by 50% from 
2006 to 2020.GHG Emissions Goal
54%  Our GHG emissions intensity decreased 
54% from 2006 to 2019, achieving our 2020 target.  
In addition, our absolute GHG emissions decreased 
by 20% from 2018 to 2019, and decreased by 41% 
from 2006 to 2019. Increases in productivity and 
efficiency have helped us to achieve our 2020 GHG 
emissions goal. 
‘19 ‘18 ‘17 ‘16 ‘06 ‘20
Goal471 467521598692
346Energy Intensity
Absolute gigajoules energy use/million 
dollars of sales and revenues
Total Energy  
Consumption 
Absolute million  
gigajoules energy use1‘19 ‘18 ‘17 ‘16 ‘0633.040.446.454.272.1
36.0
‘20
GoalGHG Emissions Intensity  
Absolute metric tons of CO2e/million 
dollars of sales and revenues
Alternative/Renewable Goal
35.5%  of our electrical energy was from renewable or 
alternative sources in 2019. In addition, our use of renewable energy 
increased from 2018 to 2019. Use alternative/renewable sources to meet 20%  
of our energy needs by 2020.2,3Alternative/Renewable Energy  
Sum of alternative and renewable 
electrical energy use/total electrical 
use x 1000.8690.905
1.774Reduce greenhouse gas emissions  
intensity by 50% from 2006 to 2020.5
2019 Total Absolute  
GHG Emissions
Million metric tonsTotal Electricity  
Consumption 
Sum of purchased  
and self-generated electricity  
in million MWh
‘19 ‘18 ‘17 ‘1625.3 25.523.7 23.0
‘19 ‘18 ‘17 ‘162.382.552.45 2.37•  0.905 million metric tons –  
Scope 1 (direct emissions)
•  0.869 million metric tons –  
Scope 2 market-based (indirect 
emissions from purchased 
electricity, heat or steam)  
0.926 million metric tons –  
Scope 2 location-based
(not included in the visual pictured here)ENERGY & EMISSIONS
‘19 ‘18 ‘17 ‘1635.532.531.2
20.027.9
‘20
Goal
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  16  / Caterpillar is focused on energy and emissions reduction in our own business, and helping customers 
decrease their carbon footprints through machinery and power solutions that contribute to lowering 
greenhouse gas emissions. Supported by our Enterprise Technology Strategy, research and development 
focus areas include high-efficiency energy conversion and electrification, working to increase power 
density, expand the use of alternative fuels, maximize efficiency of power systems and introduce more 
electrification into our product lines.
We are developing a range of equipment that includes 
internal combustion engines, hybrids and fully electric 
systems that help customers around the world meet their 
business goals for power utilization and owning and 
operating costs.
We provide U.S. EPA Tier 4/EU Stage IV, EU Stage V or 
equivalent products in North American, European and 
Japanese markets. U.S. EPA Tier 4 emissions standards (as well as EU Stage IIIB & Stage IV emissions regulations) 
provide a 90% reduction in emissions (NOx and particulate 
matter) when compared to Tier 3 standards. Customers in 
all segments express increased interest in cost-saving 
benefits of more fuel-efficient and fuel-flexible products. 
Modular offerings within our product lines allow customization 
of equipment to provide the optimal mix of technology, 
emissions profile and cost that best suit customer needs. FUEL ECONOMY  
& EMISSIONS 
SASB Code: RT-IG-410a.1 through 4of our sales from products, services and solutions 
demonstrated an improved sustainability benefit over  
prior offerings, including enabling our customers to  
reduce their greenhouse gas emissions827%
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  17  / Caterpillar Job Site Solutions (JSS) helps customers realize 
savings through reduced operator and repair needs, as well as 
decreased fuel use and associated emissions. We collaborate 
with dealers and customers to deliver customized solutions 
that help optimize energy use and provide training for 
operators on how to use our equipment more efficiently. 
Other advanced technologies, such as autonomous and 
automation capabilities, connectivity and power conversion 
systems, further increase efficiency and lower customers’ 
total cost of ownership. 
As a large company in the heavy equipment industry, we have 
the potential to drive improvements in machine emissions  
and safety. Caterpillar participates in industry organizations 
to educate and inform regulatory bodies, policymakers, NGOs 
and the general public. Along with other manufacturers, we 
regularly engage in research with and provide data to 
regulators to help them make informed decisions. 
Systems Optimization Goal
510%  Caterpillar Job Site Solutions (JSS) helps customers 
realize savings through reduced operator and repair needs, as well  
as decreased fuel use and associated emissions. Demand from our 
customers continues to grow for solutions provided by our JSS team 
working together with our Cat® dealers.Increase managed fleet hours by 100% from  
2013 to 2020.9 
‘19 ‘18 ‘17 ‘16510%
280%
124%98% 100%
‘20
GoalFleet Hours
We regularly engage 
in research with  
and provide data  
to regulators to  
help them make 
informed decisionsFUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONS
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  18  / Caterpillar is the world’s leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and 
natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives. Across the world today, 
1.8 million Caterpillar construction machines are active, and more than 20 million engines have been 
built. What goes into these machines matters. Caterpillar responsibly sources the raw materials 
used to build our products. And we keep those materials in circulation for as long as possible 
through remanufacturing and rebuild programs that reduce waste, extend equipment life and save 
customers money. 
Equipment powerful enough to move and mine the earth 
must be built with durable materials. Caterpillar sources 
these materials from a network of more than 28,000 suppliers 
who ship more than 800,000 parts and components to 
Caterpillar every year. These purchases include a variety of 
unformed steel products, which are cut or formed to shape 
and machined in our facilities; steel and iron castings and 
forgings, which we machine to final specification levels; and 
finished components, which are made either to Caterpillar 
specifications or to supplier-developed specifications. 
A key consideration is responsible sourcing of minerals 
used in our products. Tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold 
(3TG), collectively known as “conflict minerals,” have been 
associated with human rights violations in the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. With regard  
to the extraction and trade of conflict minerals, we will not 
knowingly provide support to, contribute to, assist with or 
facilitate armed conflict in the DRC. Our Conflict Minerals 
Position Statement  contains clear expectations for our 
suppliers regarding their sourcing of these materials.  
We have established a process that identifies areas  
of risk on an ongoing basis and corrective action plans  to mitigate or remediate such risks relating to conflict 
minerals. A supplier’s failure to take corrective actions 
when required may lead to additional actions, up to and 
including the termination of our business relationship.
Caterpillar supports the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) 
to help influence smelters’ engagement to support supply 
chain transparency and leverage industry collaboration 
toward greater business intelligence. Year over year, we strive 
for an increased supplier response rate with an additional 
emphasis on 3TG priority suppliers. In 2018, we received a 
100% response rate from these high-priority suppliers. We 
leverage industry standards for benchmarking and explore 
efficiencies and cost improvements on an ongoing basis. 
Caterpillar also publicly discloses the results of our Reasonable 
Country of Origin process and any necessary due diligence in 
our Form SD and Conflict Minerals Report  as required by the 
SEC. This report discloses metrics and results relative to the 
number of inquiries we execute within our first-tier suppliers. 
In these reports, we describe our due diligence efforts, 
including risk mitigation, along with expectations relative 
to process improvements for the subsequent year.
SASB Code: RT-IG-440a.1MATERIALS
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  19  / Remanufacturing and rebuild options deliver multiple 
sustainability benefits and help Caterpillar contribute to the 
circular economy. Through these businesses, we recycle 
millions of pounds of end-of-life iron annually. Because we 
are in the business of returning end-of-life components to 
same-as-when-new condition, we reduce waste and minimize 
the need for raw material, energy and water to produce new 
parts. Through remanufacturing, we make a significant 
contribution to sustainable development — extending the 
value of the energy and water consumed in a component’s original manufacture and keeping high-value nonrenewable 
resources in circulation for multiple lifetimes.
Given the significant role that remanufacturing and rebuild 
operations play in our sustainability initiatives, we set a  
goal to grow remanufacturing and rebuild business sales  
by 20% from 2013 to 2020. With the company’s enterprise 
strategy focused heavily on expansion of services, we  
are experiencing a steady demand for remanufactured 
products and components. 
For more than 45 years, Caterpillar’s remanufacturing and rebuild businesses have provided customers 
with quality equipment that delivers the best economic proposition for their business. Our engineering 
and manufacturing expertise, field population and dealer organization make it possible for us to offer 
remanufactured products and components through Cat® Reman, Progress Rail Services and Solar 
Turbines, and rebuild options through our dealers. 
14%
rebuild sales growth  
2013-201910 
3%
remanufacturing  
sales growth  
2013–201910REMAN & REBUILD GOAL:
Increase remanufactured and 
rebuild business sales by  
20%  
from 2013 to 202091%
eligible end-of-life returns  
collected in 2019, totaling
153 
million   
pounds of material10,11
SASB Code: RT-IG-440b.1REMANUFACTURING
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  20  / Remanufacturing and rebuild businesses take a systems view 
of product life cycles. For example, the Cat® Reman process 
begins with new product design. Engineers use design 
guidelines to build key products with remanufacturingin 
mind, ensuring they are highly durable even under heavy-
use conditions. When a component reaches the end of its 
initial serviceable life, dealers return the used component, 
referred to as core, to Caterpillar where it is cleaned, 
inspected, salvaged and remanufactured to original 
factory specifications, including any engineering updates. 
The company uses state-of-the-art salvage techniques, 
strict reuse guidelines, and advanced remanufacturing 
processes and quality controls to ensure reman products 
provide same-as-when-new performance, coupled with  
a same-as-new warranty. 
Cat Reman products are supplied to dealers, who sell them  
to customers at a significantly reduced price compared to 
the cost of an equivalent new product. Cat Reman’s model 
is an exchange business. To encourage use of reman product, 
we charge a deposit along with the purchase of each reman product. When customers return their used components, 
we refund their deposit. Caterpillar uses a proprietary core 
management system to globally manage core returns from 
dealers and Caterpillar inspection facilities and determine the 
core credit amounts that will be refunded. Off-the-shelf 
availability of nearly 8,000 parts gives customers more 
options at repair and overhaul time.
A rebuild is typically performed by trained dealer service 
professionals using genuine equipment and parts that literally 
“rebuild” a customer’s machine. A complete Cat® Certified 
Rebuild includes more than 350 tests and inspections, 
automatic replacement of approximately 7,000 parts  
and a like-new machine warranty. Caterpillar provides 
information, data, training and service tools to help dealers 
make the most appropriate decisions about which parts  
to reuse in order to achieve expected longevity of rebuilt 
components. Our remanufacturing and rebuild services 
greatly increase the amount of materials that remain in 
productive use.REMANUFACTURING
Engineers use  
design guidelines to  
build key products  
with remanufacturing  
in mind.When a component  
reaches the end of its initial 
serviceable life, dealers 
return the used component, 
referred to as core,  
to Caterpillar.Caterpillar cleans, 
inspects, salvages 
and remanufactures  
to original factory 
specifications.REMANUFACTURING AND REBUILD
SASB Code: RT-IG-440b.1
       2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  21  / Our employees — more than 102,300 of them worldwide as of year-end 2019 — are the backbone of 
Caterpillar’s success. They’re helping build a better world, from supporting customers to innovating 
new technologies to giving back to communities. In turn, Caterpillar provides a positive work 
environment by promoting an uncompromising safety culture; offering challenging roles where 
employees can learn, contribute and grow; and prioritizing diversity and inclusion. PEOPLE
EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY
The health and safety of our employees is our top priority. 
We manage safety at the highest levels, using the same 
tools we employ to measure and improve other aspects  
of business performance, such as continuous improvement 
processes, metrics, scorecards and performance management. 
Our enterprise strategy embeds safety in the strategic pillar 
of operational excellence. By putting safety front and center 
and linking it to our strategic goals, we never lose sight of this 
critically important issue. 
Enterprise metrics and targets, as well as goals developed 
within each business unit, keep us on track for continuous 
improvements. Common enterprise targets create structure 
and accountability, while business unit process improvements 
create opportunities for innovative safety efforts, which can 
be shared across the enterprise.
Our EHS assurance manual establishes baseline expectations 
for safety, and Caterpillar’s health and safety professionals 
provide expertise and support to operations around the world. 
Within our facilities, we use a variety of processes, tools, 
training and continuous improvement teams to manage risks 
and create an engaging culture with relentless focus on safety. 
At the same time, Caterpillar Safety Services provides solutions 
and expertise to support dealers, suppliers and customers  by leveraging cultural assessment tools, guiding continuous 
improvement processes, providing technology to identify and 
mitigate risk, and sharing a wealth of industry-specific safety 
resources. Our safety website  provides access to a wide range 
of interactive online training courses for safety, health and 
the environment. 
In the spirit of continuous improvement, we look for new 
ways to strengthen our safety approach. We’ve modified our 
risk evaluation and assessment process to better identify 
which facilities may benefit most from assessments and 
recommendations for improvement. At facilities worldwide, 
we attempt to use localized resources who have specific 
knowledge of regulations and requirements in a local region. 
We continue to refine our standard processes with embedded 
safety procedures for the work that we do. From time to time, 
non-routine tasks may be identified. In 2019, we developed 
pre-task assessment tools to focus on these activities to 
identify and manage potential risks before beginning the 
work. As Caterpillar’s business — including our expanded 
offerings for customers — grows, we continue to refine our 
focus on creating safe working environments, and ultimately, 
keeping people safe. 
SASB Code: RT-IG-000.B
SASB Code: RT-IG-320a.1       2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  22  / Our relentless focus on safety has enabled us to meet our 2020 
safety goals for operations. Our vision has always been and 
continues to be zero injuries. Our safety goals represent 
expected progress on our path to zero. We strive for all team 
members to go home safely, every day.
Despite our progress, we are saddened to report one of our 
contractors suffered a fatal workplace injury in one of our 
facilities in 2019. We are dedicated to the safety of everyone  
working at Caterpillar. We encourage our extended team 
of contractors, dealers, suppliers and customers to focus  
on safety for their operations and employees.
We have improved our recordable injury frequency rate by 
93% from our 2003 base year, and by 19% from 2018 to 2019. 
We have improved our lost-time case frequency rate by 95% 
from our 2003 base year, and by 6% from 2018 to 2019. Reduce recordable workplace injury rate 
to 0.60 and lost-time injury case rate to 
0.15 by 2020.
‘19 ‘18 ‘17 ‘16 ‘030.43 0.53 0.49 0.506.22
0.60
‘20
GoalRecordable Injury Frequency 
(RIF)  
Recordable injuries per  
200,000 hours worked0.43
‘19 ‘18 ‘17 ‘16 ‘030.15 0.16 0.17 0.192.97
0.15
‘20
GoalLost-Time Case Frequency Rate 
(LTCFR)  
Work-related injuries resulting in lost  
time per 200,000 hours worked0.15PEOPLE
SASB Code: RT-IG-320a.10  
Employees  2019 Fatalities 
1 
ContractorIn 2019, we saw  
our best safety  
performance  
on record.
Safety Goals
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  23  / TALENT DEVELOPMENT
At Caterpillar, we are committed to attracting, hiring, 
developing, engaging and retaining talented employees.  
Our people are the foundation for high-performing teams 
required to deliver our enterprise strategy. Our recruiting, 
learning and performance management programs are 
designed to ensure productive, highly engaged employees 
focused on both individual and organizational performance. 
Growing employee capabilities is central to the company’s 
ability to deliver results and engage employees. According  
to our annual employee insights survey, Caterpillar employees 
rate “Challenging Work and Impact” as our greatest strength 
and most important driver of their engagement. We provide  
a variety of opportunities for employees to grow their 
capabilities while doing meaningful work.
Recruitment 
We are continuing to grow our capability to attract top 
talent. We are doing this by moving our recruiting teams 
closer to the business and communities we serve. In 2019, 
Caterpillar, through relationships with global partners, 
actively engaged in events that targeted a broad scope  
of diverse talent to drive awareness. We continued our 
commitment to workforce development programs such as 
hackathons, robotics competitions, skilled-trades funding,  and military and diversity hiring engagements. This enables 
us to prepare our workforce to do work that matters and 
meets the needs of our current business and the future 
demands of the market. 
Professional Development
Caterpillar’s talent development strategy helps our 
employees grow their careers by providing a toolbox of 
diverse experiences that allow them to forge unique paths.  
In 2019, we created success profiles, which allow managers 
to help employees consider work experiences needed to 
prepare them for roles critical to the success of the strategy. 
This approach aligns with the feedback we receive from 
employees about how they want to grow their careers. 
Our newest suite of leadership development programs, 
launched in 2019, is designed to build competencies 
supporting our leadership attributes within a five-level 
framework. The framework requires greater capability  
as leaders progress in their careers. Leadership levels 
include initial training focused on emerging and future 
leaders, progressing to first-line, mid-level, department  
and, ultimately, executive leaders.PEOPLE
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  24  / At Caterpillar, we are focused on driving a culture of 
continuous improvement through Lean. It is important that  
all employees have a deep understanding of Lean — what it  
is, how to apply it and how it ultimately impacts our success. 
Our Lean Center of Excellence focuses on integrated and 
continuous learning for both leaders and employees, so that 
everyone grows in their ability to support the Operational 
Excellence pillar of our enterprise strategy.
Caterpillar provides technical and market leadership 
development programs that enhance capabilities and 
performance in specific functions or countries. For example, 
the Engineering Rotational Development Program provides 
onboarding support for new college graduate hires into 
engineering functions. The program includes orientation, 
tours, learning, networking, product experiences, mentoring/
coaching, leadership opportunities on program committees, 
and rotational development experiences provided in an 
employee’s first one to three years at Caterpillar.
Finally, we offer informal learning experiences for all 
employees through learning and technology-enabled 
systems for ease of access and enterprise collaboration. 
Coaching and feedback reinforce this experiential learning. 
Across all of these professional development programs,  
we realize business benefits, including higher-performing 
individuals and teams, lower employee turnover, better 
decision-making, decreased corporate risk and more effective 
resource allocation.PEOPLE
Key to our performance 
and reward strategy 
are ongoing coaching 
conversations between 
leaders and employees.Performance & Rewards 
In recent years, we have updated our performance 
management process to make it more meaningful and better 
aligned with our Operating & Execution (O&E) Model. 
We are committed to a strong pay-for-performance philosophy 
that aligns individual performance, behaviors and business 
results with individual rewards. Differentiating performance 
and rewards helps us achieve the critical elements of our 
enterprise strategy, including profitable growth, and strengthens 
our high-performing Caterpillar team. Key to our performance 
and reward strategy are: setting ambitious, yet achievable 
individual and team goals; ongoing coaching conversations 
between leaders and employees about progress toward those 
goals and how they were achieved; increased differentiation 
of rewards; and a meaningful year-end discussion regarding 
contributions made and value created.
To further encourage adoption of these practices, we have 
introduced new training and resources for managers about 
how to conduct reviews and provide constructive feedback 
to employees. 
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  25  / DIVERSITY & INCLUSION  
We believe each person is unique and valued, and are committed 
to ensuring our workplace is diverse and representative of  
the many customers we serve around the globe. Different 
perspectives help us achieve our best work and improve our 
communities — that's the Power of Everyone. When we 
leverage our diversity in an inclusive environment, we create 
the best solutions to meet our customers' needs in current 
and future markets.
Employee Resource Groups  
One way we drive inclusion is through our 14 employee 
resource groups (ERGs). Open to all employees, our ERGs 
focus on harnessing the power of diverse thinking to better 
influence business decisions. Caterpillar’s ERGs help create 
positive impact on our business. One example involved the 
Caterpillar Chinese Resource Group (CCRG), which assisted 
on a project focused on growing our expanded offerings in 
China. The CCRG members provided business value through 
their culture, language and subject matter expertise, as well  
as their leadership skills and network in China. As a result, they 
gained valuable development experience. The Caterpillar Latino 
Connection ERG helped provide vital support for an important 
software update needed to prevent downtime for our customers 
by collaborating on translations for critical job aides within 
24 hours of the initial request.
Community Outreach  
Caterpillar employees give generously of their time and talent  
to support activities that promote a diverse and capable pipeline 
of talent from within their local communities. With facilities in 
more than 500 locations worldwide, employee outreach efforts 
focus on education, gender equity and skill building. Advocacy 
is an important complement; through engagement with 
professional associations like Society of Women Engineers 
(SWE), Caterpillar employees participate in critical conversations 
at the national, state and local level about access to STEM 
opportunities for underrepresented populations. 
Breakthrough Leadership  
Breakthrough Leadership is a development program that helps 
men and women develop inclusive leadership strategies  
and sharpen awareness of organizational culture and gender 
biases. More than 3,000 women have completed the course 
since its inception in 2014; while 4,100 men have completed 
the Men as Allies program, focused on growing a more 
gender-inclusive culture. 
Awards
We were honored to receive the following awards in recognition 
of our workforce inclusion and diversity efforts:
   Best of the Best Top Veteran-Friendly Companies  U.S. 
Veteran’s Magazine
  America’s Best Employers for Diversity Forbes
   Top 50 Employers Careers & the disABLED Magazine
   Best Employers for Women Forbes
  Best Employers for New Grads Forbes
   Top Great Company to Work for in Brazil,  
Great Place to Work Institute
   Excellence Award for Talent Development,  
Happy Companies, ChinaHUMAN RIGHTS
Our Human Rights policy  is informed by the international human 
rights principles described in the United Nations Guiding 
Principles (UNGP) on Business and Human Rights, Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and the International 
Labour Organization's (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work. We are committed to respecting 
recognized human rights principles aimed at promoting and 
protecting human rights in the countries in which we operate. 
We recognize that governments are ultimately responsible for 
establishing the legal framework to protect human rights within 
their jurisdictions.
We encourage any party to report situations in which they 
have a good faith belief that the entities or individuals covered 
under our policy have taken actions that are inconsistent with 
the principles set forth in the policy. We have dedicated a 
confidential and anonymous means to encourage reporting  
by any party, maintained by our Office of Business Practices.PEOPLE
 
 
14  
Employee  
Resource Groups (ERGs)
Africa Business Resource Group
Active Caterpillar Team
Abled and Disabled Employees  
Partnering Together
Armed Forces Support Network
Caterpillar African American Network
Caterpillar Asian Indian Community
Caterpillar Chinese Resource Group
Caterpillar Latino Connection
Experienced Professionals
Korean Resource Group
Caterpillar Lambda Network
Middle Eastern Resource Group
Women's Initiative Network
Young Professionals of Caterpillar
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  26  / PHILANTHROPY
Our success contributes to the social stability of regions around 
the world. Caterpillar and our customers support economic 
growth both in developed and developing countries, where 
aging networks need improvement, and in emerging regions, 
where new infrastructure is required. Our products help ensure 
investments in transportation, energy, telecommunications, 
waste and water infrastructure produce maximum benefits. By 
employing more than 100,000 people worldwide – and indirectly 
supporting countless other jobs – we help provide opportunities 
and grow economies in countries around the world. 
Caterpillar Foundation 
As Caterpillar and our customers work to build infrastructure, 
the Caterpillar Foundation , the philanthropic arm of Caterpillar 
Inc., has been on a mission to improve the lives of people 
around the world since its founding in 1952. In more recent 
years, the Foundation’s Together.Stronger.™ platform has 
worked to align, inspire and activate cross-sector stakeholders 
to tackle the root causes of poverty. Through a collaborative 
effort of businesses, nonprofits, governments and citizens, 
the Foundation set out to help 50 million people rise out  
of poverty by 2020. Together, we have made tremendous 
progress and are proud to have reached this goal.Over the past year, as we approached this exciting milestone, 
the Foundation evaluated how it can make the most significant 
impact moving forward. With that in mind, the Foundation has 
refreshed its strategy with a more focused mission of building 
resilient communities that thrive in a rapidly changing world. 
Resilient communities play a pivotal role in global development. 
They are strong, resourceful and better prepared to withstand, 
manage and recover from unexpected challenges of the future, 
whether those challenges are social, environmental, economic 
or political. This refreshed strategy reflects who Caterpillar  
and the Foundation are and provides the opportunity to leverage 
our expertise and experience to improve the communities  
in which we live and work. PEOPLE
Caterpillar Foundation Strategy
Caterpillar Foundation and  
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) 
The Caterpillar Foundation’s investments align 
with several of the UN SDGs . The Caterpillar 
Foundation works to build resilient communities 
in the places where we live and work, and where 
there is need. The UN SDGs that are most closely 
associated with the Foundation’s work include: HOW
Workforce readiness and 
STEM education programs 
Building natural infrastructure 
and supporting access  
to basic services like water 
and energy
Matching gifts, volunteerism, 
United Way giving and 
disaster reliefWHAT
Empower the workforce 
of the 21st century 
Build strong, resilient 
and sustainable 
infrastructure
Give back, harnessing 
the passions of our team
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  27  / Since 1952, the Caterpillar Foundation  
has invested about  
$770 million  
in global communities.
Independent  Assurance Statement to Caterpillar Inc. 
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Caterpillar Inc. (Caterpillar) to provide limited 
assurance in relation to specified 2019  data in the Caterpillar 2019 Sustainability Report as set out below.   
Engagement summary  
Scope of our 
engagement Whether the Caterpillar 2019 data for the following indicators are fairly presented, in all material 
respects, with the reporting criteria: 
Energy & Greenhouse gas emissions data 
Scope 1 GHG emissions [million metric tons
CO2e]
Scope 2 GHG emissions – location and
market based methodology [million metric
tons CO2e]
Total GHG emissions [combined Scope 1
and 2 market based in million metric tons
CO2e] and intensity [metric tons by million
dollars of Sales and revenues];
Energy consumption and intensity
[GJ/million dollars of Sales and revenue];
Total electricity [MWh];Water data 
Non-contact cooling water [billion gallons];
Water sources (non-contact cooling water
from foundry operations, municipal water,
groundwater, surface water) [%];
Total water consumption [billion gallons]
and intensity [thousands of gallons by
million dollars of Sales and revenues]
Safety data  
Lost Time Case Frequency Rate (LTCIR);
Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (RIF) –
per 200,000 hours worked.
Reporting 
criteria The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as revised January 2015) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions and Caterpillar internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other indicators.  
Assurance 
standard ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
ISAE 3000 (Revised).  
Assurance level Limited assurance. 
Respective 
responsibilities Caterpillar is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to third 
parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.   
ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance 
activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.  
Our conclusions  
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Caterpillar 2019 data for the indicators listed 
above under ‘Scope of our Engagement’ are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. 
Our assurance activities   
Our objective was to assess whether the selected data are presented in accordance with the principles of completeness, 
comparability (across the organization) and accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and 
consolidation). We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were 
necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions.  
A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities: 
Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including a
walkthrough of the new Environmental Management Information System) used for collecting and reporting the selected
data;
A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors;
An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the corporate data
consolidation;
Virtual visits to two sites – EMD LaGrange (USA) and Technical Center (USA) to review local reporting processes and
consistency of reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant staff,
reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality and
assurance processes;
Year-end assurance activities during a visit to Caterpillar sustainability team offices in Peoria, Illinois including reviewing
the results of internal control procedures, checking completeness of locations in the consolidation as well as the accuracy
of the consolidation of the data for the selected indicators from the site data.
The limitations of our engagement  
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or 
estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context . 
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers 
Head of Corporate Assurance 
9 April 2020 
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London 
www.ermcvs.com ; email: post@ermcvs.com  ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS 
conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and 
auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure 
that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of 
interest.  ERM CVS staff that have undertaken this engagement have 
provided no consultancy related services to Caterpillar in any respect. 
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  28  / TOPIC SASB CODE METRIC UNIT OF MEASURE RESPONSE/COMMENT
Accounting 
MetricsRT -IG-000.ANumber of units produced by  
product categoryNumberSales data is provided in Caterpillar's 
annual report to shareholders on  
Form 10-K. 
RT -IG-000.B Number of employees Number 102,300
Energy 
ManagementRT -IG-130a.1(1) total energy consumed Gigajoules (GJ) 25,330,000
(2) percentage grid electricity % 83.8%
(3) percentage renewable % 21.2%
Employee Health 
and SafetyRT -IG-320a.1(1) total recordable incident rate (TRIR) Rate 0.4314
(2) fatality rate Number 0 employees, 1 contractor
(3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) RateCaterpillar emphasizes the importance of 
reviewing all work-related environmental, 
health and safety incidents, including near 
misses. Near misses are communicated 
and managed locally. 
Fuel Economy & 
Emissions in Use-
PhaseRT -IG-410a.1Sales-weighted fleet fuel efficiency for 
medium- and heavy-duty vehiclesGallons per  
1,000 ton-milesNot applicable to Caterpillar.
RT -IG-410a.2Sales-weighted fuel efficiency for  
non-road equipmentGallons per hourWe continue to invest in research and 
development aimed at products that 
generate fewer direct emissions. Read 
more about our focus on fuel economy 
and emissions on Pages 17-18 of this 
report. Given the diversity of our products 
and applications in which our products 
are used, as well as the lack of industry 
standards to estimate on a per unit of 
work basis, Caterpillar does not calculate 
sales-weighted fuel efficiency or 
emissions in this manner. RT -IG-410a.3Sales-weighted fuel efficiency for  
stationary generatorsWatts per hour
RT -IG-410a.4Sales-weighted emissions of:  
(1) nitrogen oxides (NOx) and  
(2) particulate matter (PM) for:  
(a) marine diesel engines, (b) locomotive 
diesel engines, (c) on-road medium-  
and heavy-duty engines, and (d) other 
non-road diesel enginesGrams per kilowatt-hour
Materials 
SourcingRT -IG-440a.1Description of the management  
of risks associated with the use of  
critical materialsN/ACaterpillar responsibly sources the raw 
materials used to build our products. 
Please see Page 19 for more information. 
Remanufacturing 
Design & 
ServicesRT -IG-440b.1Revenue from remanufactured products 
and remanufacturing servicesReporting currencyOur remanufacturing and rebuild businesses 
have grown 3% and 14%, respectively,  
since 2013.10 SASB INDEX
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  29  / 1. Total includes purchased and on-site generated alternative 
and renewable energy, as well as calculating the percentage 
of renewable energy from grid-purchased electricity using 
data obtained from the International Energy Agency.
2. Renewable Energy: Caterpillar defines renewable energy 
as energy resources that are naturally replenishing over  
a short period of time and virtually inexhaustible. Power 
generation examples include wind, solar, hydro, geothermal, 
tidal, wave, biomass and biogas from anaerobic digestion.
3. Alternative Energy: Caterpillar defines alternative energy 
as any source of usable energy that offers substantial 
environmental benefits compared to the conventional 
sources of energy that it replaces. Power generation 
examples include landfill gas, coal mine and abandoned 
mine methane, combined heat and power, coal with 
carbon sequestration and localized power generation.
4. Location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions are provided  
in accordance with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance 
(2015). Our market-based Scope 2 emissions are calculated 
using the Scope 2 Quality Criteria. The following 
instruments were used in calculating our market-based 
Scope 2 emissions: Renewable Energy Guarantees of 
Origin, energy contracts, supplier-specific emission rates, 
Caterpillar-owned power generation facilities and, for the 
remainder of our facilities, grid average emission factors 
from USEPA’s eGRID (2016) and the International Energy 
Agency’s data (2018). For 2019 calculations, Caterpillar  
did not use residual mix factors.
5. GHG emissions intensity reduction goal is based on our 
combined Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect, market-
based) GHG emissions using a 2006 baseline year. Likewise, 
total absolute GHG emissions are a sum of Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 (market-based) emissions.6. Percentages may not add to 100% due to rounding.
7. Water consumption intensity does not include 
noncontact cooling water from foundry operations.
8. This includes remanufacturing, component overhauls at 
Cat dealers, power generation using alternative energy 
sources, customer job site optimization and innovative 
new products. The components are evaluated each year 
to adjust for acquisitions, divestitures, offerings that 
become standard and improvements to data accuracy.
9. Data for 2018 has been revised for improved accuracy. 
10. Data does not include Progress Rail or Solar Turbines.
11. Product returned for remanufacture (called “core”) is not 
always returned within the same calendar year as sold.
12. This represents employee and retiree donations made in 
the calendar year 2018, and the Caterpillar Foundation’s 
match made in the calendar year 2019.
13. This includes employee and retiree contributions, and the 
Foundation match, for campaigns in the United States, 
Canada, Mexico and Panama.
14. Data includes Caterpillar and agency employees. Data does 
not include contractor employees.ENDNOTES
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  30  / ABOUT THIS REPORT
The reporting period is the 2019 calendar year, which is also Caterpillar’s fiscal year. Caterpillar is headquartered in Deerfield, 
Illinois, USA.  Contact us .
 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards.
Report content represents 100% of the products and operations of Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries where we have a controlling 
financial interest. Where noted, Caterpillar’s independent dealer network and supplier network are also represented. Caterpillar 
and subsidiary brands are listed on our website . Caterpillar’s environmental and safety metrics for operations are consolidated 
based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol “operational control” approach. Environmental data includes all manufacturing and office 
facilities with more than 500 employees. Safety data includes employees in all workplaces within Caterpillar’s reporting boundary.
 
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) has conducted independent assurance of selected 2019 environmental  
and safety data. To understand the scope, activities and conclusions of the assurance process, please see the ERM CVS 
Assurance Statement. 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements in this presentation relate to future events and expectations and are forward-looking statements within 
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “believe, ” “estimate, ” “will be, ” “will, ” 
“would, ” “expect, ” “anticipate, ” “plan, ” “forecast, ” “target, ” “guide, ” “project, ” “intend, ” “could, ” “should” or other similar words  
or expressions often identify forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-
looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our outlook, projections, forecasts or trend descriptions. 
These statements do not guarantee future performance and speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake  
to update our forward-looking statements.
Caterpillar’s actual results may differ materially from those described or implied in our forward-looking statements based  
on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) global and regional economic conditions and economic conditions  
in the industries we serve; (ii) commodity price changes, material price increases, fluctuations in demand for our products  
or significant shortages of material; (iii) government monetary or fiscal policies; (iv) political and economic risks, commercial 
instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we operate; (v) international trade policies and their impact 
on demand for our products and our competitive position, including the imposition of new tariffs or changes in existing tariff 
rates; (vi) our ability to develop, produce and market quality products that meet our customers’ needs; (vii) the impact of the highly 
competitive environment in which we operate on our sales and pricing; (viii) information technology security threats and computer 
crime; (ix) inventory management decisions and sourcing practices of our dealers and our OEM customers; (x) a failure to realize, 
or a delay in realizing, all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures; (xi) union disputes or other 
employee relations issues; (xii) adverse effects of unexpected events; (xiii) disruptions or volatility in global financial markets 
limiting our sources of liquidity or the liquidity of our customers, dealers and suppliers; (xiv) failure to maintain our credit ratings 
and potential resulting increases to our cost of borrowing and adverse effects on our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position 
and access to capital markets; (xv) our Financial Products segment’s risks associated with the financial services industry;  
(xvi) changes in interest rates or market liquidity conditions; (xvii) an increase in delinquencies, repossessions or net losses  
of Cat Financial’s customers; (xviii) currency fluctuations; (xix) our or Cat Financial’s compliance with financial and other 
restrictive covenants in debt agreements; (xx) increased pension plan funding obligations; (xxi) alleged or actual violations  
of trade or anti-corruption laws and regulations; (xxii) additional tax expense or exposure, including the impact of U.S. tax 
reform; (xxiii) significant legal proceedings, claims, lawsuits or government investigations; (xxiv) new regulations or changes  
in financial services regulations; (xxv) compliance with environmental laws and regulations; (xxvi) the duration and geographic 
spread of, business disruptions caused by, and the overall global economic impact of, the COVID-19 pandemic; and (xxvii) other 
factors described in more detail in Caterpillar’s Forms 10-Q, 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
      2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT /  31  / © 2020 Caterpillar. All Rights Reserved. CAT, CATERPILLAR, LET’S DO THE WORK, their respective logos,  
“Caterpillar Corporate Yellow," the “Power Edge” and Cat “Modern Hex” trade dress, as well as corporate  
and product identity used herein, are trademarks of Caterpillar and may not be used without permission.
Caterpillar: NonconfidentialVisit caterpillar.com/sustainability  for stories about  
how Caterpillar puts sustainability into action, including:
  the safety of our employees around the world
  improvements in our manufacturing operations
  new products, services and solutions supporting our customers
  remanufacturing offerings and more 
At Caterpillar, sustainability is our commitment  
to building a better world. 
LET'S DO THE WORK.™
®