2018  | Sustainability Progress Report
®Caterpillar’s efforts to drive sustainability across the company in 2018 led to outstanding 
business performance, which allowed us to invest in sustainable solutions that enhance 
communities and protect the planet.
We achieved record financial results and profitable growth, 
while introducing innovative products and services. In 2018, 
our new enterprise strategy took firm hold, and each component —  
services, expanded offerings, and operational excellence — 
played a significant role in our sustainability strategy.
SERVICES MEANS TRANSFORMING TRADITIONAL 
PRODUCT SUPPORT IN WAYS THAT REDUCE 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Caterpillar and our dealers provide services that support 
customers with digital solutions, e-commerce offerings, 
financing and more. The newly refreshed Cat® digital model 
guides investment in advanced technology to create connected  
fleet solutions, autonomous machines and apps for monitoring 
equipment. In the process, we help customers reduce fuel 
consumption, lower emissions, improve productivity and 
enhance worker safety. Today, Caterpillar has one of the 
world’s largest industrial connected fleets at 850,000 assets 
— and it’s growing every day. 
Caterpillar’s remanufacturing and rebuilding businesses 
increase the lifespan of equipment, reusing instead of 
discarding components, reducing waste and keeping 
nonrenewable resources in circulation for multiple lifetimes.  
In 2018, Caterpillar received more than 150 million pounds  
of end-of-life material for remanufacturing. 
EXPANDED OFFERINGS MEANS THE RIGHT SOLUTIONS 
FOR CUSTOMERS AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Our team continues to expand offerings across all business 
lines in innovative and sustainable ways. Innovations to make 
our products and our customers’ operations more sustainable 
have included the introduction of the Cat D6 XE. This model 
uses up to 35 percent less fuel, lowers service and maintenance 
costs, and boosts customer profitability compared to prior 
models. And, our Energy & Transportation team is helping the 
cruise industry find ways to reduce the emissions footprint of 
marine transport. We have developed dual-fuel engines for 
cruise ships that can be operated with either diesel fuel or 
natural gas, with the potential for the latter to realize 
significant exhaust emissions reduction.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MEANS BUILDING  
A SUSTAINABLE ADVANTAGE IN OUR BUSINESS  
AND OUR COMMUNITIES
Operational excellence speaks to the core of social 
responsibility — safety, quality, continuous improvement  
and waste reduction. We want every person at Caterpillar to go home safely every 
day. As we make our facilities safer with automation — for 
example, implementing robotic solutions that have the potential 
to reduce employees’ ergonomic injuries — we also improve 
efficiency. In 2018, we continued to reduce lost time injuries 
with a 6 percent improvement over 2017 and a 95 percent 
improvement against our 2003 baseline. 
PEOPLE ARE BOTH THE REASON AND THE INSTRUMENT 
FOR BUILDING A BETTER, MORE SUSTAINABLE WORLD
When we have the best talent assembled on a globally 
diverse team, we’re best prepared to meet customer needs 
and make a difference in the communities where we live and 
work. We champion diversity, treat people fairly, prohibit 
discrimination and foster an inclusive environment. Full 
inclusion drives business results. 
Through the Caterpillar Foundation, we set a goal in 2013 and 
are on track to help 50 million people rise out of poverty by 
2020. Since 1952, the Foundation has contributed more than 
$740 million to help make sustainable progress possible 
around the world. Our team members amplify this impact  
by giving money and time. The Caterpillar Foundation also 
launched the Value of Water campaign to raise awareness  
of global water issues. 
I’m proud of all that our global team has accomplished this 
past year — creating strong company performance and 
reaching key sustainability milestones. We are proud to 
make Fortune’s World’s Most Admired Companies for 2018. 
And, for the 19th time, our company was named to the  
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, including both the World 
and North America indices in 2018. I’m excited about the 
opportunities that lie ahead. Our team is empowered and 
ready to make great things happen for our customers, for 
our communities and for our world.
Jim Umpleby
Chairman & CEOTO OURSTAKEHOLDERS:
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
2Over the past year, Caterpillar continued executing our 
enterprise strategy to achieve long-term profitable growth –  
supporting our customers, rewarding our shareholders 
and providing opportunity for our employees and the 
communities where we live and operate. As we execute  
this strategy, we’re not only driving growth, but also 
furthering our sustainability journey.
EXPANDED
OFFERINGSOPERATIONAL
EXCELLENCE
SERVICES
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
Our focus on excellence translates into initiatives that improve 
safety, deliver high-quality products and implement Lean 
principles to enhance efficiency and resource conservation. For 
instance, our facility in Thiruvallur, India, is located in a water-
stressed area and relies on groundwater for its operations. 
Following an extensive water analysis and employee survey, 
projects implemented across the facility have reduced water  
use by 14.2 million gallons of water per year.HOW CATERPILLAR’S  STRATEGY  IS  HELPING TO BUILD A BETTER WORLD
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
3EXPANDED  OFFERINGS
Expanded product and technology offerings 
help us reach new markets and better meet 
the unique needs of our customers. As an 
example, our updated Cat® G3600 A4 gas 
compression engine better enables customers 
to pursue opportunities that require compliance 
with strict environmental regulations. The new 
model increases the engine’s power and provides 
greater flexibility for different fuel qualities, 
all while allowing operators the possibility  
of complying with stringent site-specific 
emissions thresholds.
SERVICES
Digital technologies and aftermarket services 
connect engines, machines and entire fleets to 
provide our customers with new levels of insight, 
enabling them to work smarter by optimizing 
productivity. That often means using less fuel, 
reducing emissions and extending the life of their 
Cat products. One technology leading the way for  
our Resource Industries’ customers is Cat MineStar™, 
a suite of technologies that collects, organizes and 
analyzes a myriad of data points, helping machines 
run more efficiently and keeping operators out of 
harm’s way. 
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
4Caterpillar has a long history of and a strong process for 
innovation in research and development.
We develop products that are efficient, safe and designed for 
remanufacture. By continually improving the performance  
of our products, we meet customer demand to make their 
operations more sustainable, while driving our industry  
to improve. 
Our strategy continues to move beyond traditional iron product 
offerings to include job site connectivity, which unlocks even 
more operating efficiencies. Our Job Site Solutions team, for 
example, works with Cat® dealers to help customers improve 
their operations and be more competitive. Solutions often 
deliver sustainability benefits, such as extending a machine’s 
life, which in turn reduces raw material consumption. When 
customers require new machines or components, we offer 
remanufactured and rebuilt products that not only provide 
cost savings, but also help customers extend life cycles and 
use materials more efficiently. This life cycle approach allows 
us to provide sustainable solutions that help customers build 
a better world. WORKING TO OFFER MORE  
EFFICIENT SOLUTIONSPRODUCT
Cat® Connect Technologies 
Offer Sustainability Benefits  
•  Cat Detect  – Creates a safer 
job site by tracking vehicles 
and assets
•  Cat Link  – Provides 
comprehensive information 
about site operations and 
productivity 
•  Cat Compact  – Speeds 
compaction time, saving fuel 
and material costs
•  Cat Command  – Enables 
operators to run equipment 
remotely, making work safer 
and more precise 
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
5Wildfires are increasing in number 
and intensity around the world, 
causing devastation and damage. 
Alongside forestry management and 
firefighting agencies on the front 
lines of these fires are Cat® D6N Fire 
Suppression Tractors, which have 
helped protect forests, property and 
lives for decades. Firefighters and 
first responders count on the D6N 
to move combustible material, 
clear fire lines, open roadways and 
assist firefighting equipment over 
challenging terrain. Although the 
dozer, built for construction and 
land clearing, is ideally suited for 
these tasks, the harsh environmental 
conditions presented by fires such  
as falling trees, ash-filled air and 
extreme temperatures require 
extensive modifications.STAYING SAFER  IN THE LINE OF FIRE
We now offer comprehensive, factory-installed equipment 
on the D6N for fire suppression applications. It includes 
extensive heat and fire insulation on fluid and electrical 
lines, machine guarding, enhanced cab air filtration and 
additional powerful lights. Maintaining an operator’s 
safety and keeping the tractor running is paramount. 
Machines can run 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 
with several operators alternating until every last flame 
is extinguished.In 2018 in the United States 
alone, 8.6 million  acres  
of land burned. The cost of  
fighting wildfires has increased 
more than 500%  over the past 
20 years .
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
6Our customers want to reduce energy costs and associated emissions – but they can’t afford to 
sacrifice power in the process. With new Cat® machines for a range of applications, they don’t 
have to compromise. 
THE NEW 320 NEXT GENERATION HYDRAULIC 
EXCAVATOR reduces fuel consumption to levels 
comparable to our full hybrid system, without a 
hybrid system’s complexity. The system optimizes 
lever commands, reducing fuel consumption by 
up to 25 percent compared to previous models 
without compromising the machine’s performance 
or cost. Once the technology is deployed across 
our entire excavator product line as planned, it 
could lead to carbon dioxide emission reductions 
of up to 2.2 million metric tons per year. 
THE C9.3B DIESEL ENGINE  is used to power 
applications from agriculture and forestry to 
excavation. Designed to be a worldwide platform,  
it is certified to U.S. EPA Tier 4 Final and EU 
Stage V emission standards and is prepared to 
achieve emerging new standards like China 
NonRoad Stage IV. This platform update offers  
up to 4 percent fuel economy improvement and  
up to 18 percent increased power density when 
compared to the C9.3 ACERT, allowing original 
equipment manufacturers to downsize their 
engine platforms, lower installation costs and 
maximize uptime.
ROTECHBOOSTER FROM SOLAR TURBINES  
addresses a concern we hear frequently from 
customers: the need for compressor dry gas 
seals to provide a clean and consistent supply  of gas, without frequent depressurization,  
which releases methane. With input from a 
multidisciplinary team, Solar Turbines designed  
a new system that needs to be depressurized only 
once per month on average, rather than every few 
hours. The new compressor will reduce methane 
emissions by roughly 13.5 tons a year per unit sold.NEW MACHINES PAIR  PERFORMANCE & SUSTAINABILITY 
Scooping Up Production Gains  
At the Argos Roberta limestone quarry in 
Alabama, our Job Site Solutions (JSS) team, 
working closely with the Cat dealer and 
customer, developed a high-performance 
plan for the site to address productivity 
improvements in the operation. New 
insights from JSS’s site-specific analysis 
allowed the quarry to increase production 
over 10 percent with 359 fewer machine 
hours in just over six months. 
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
7SETTING SAIL  WITH LOWER EMISSIONS
An even more sustainable cruise isn’t far off in the future –  
it’s here today, and Caterpillar is helping find ways to reduce 
the emissions footprint of marine transport, which has 
historically depended on heavy fuel oil for power. 
As natural gas has become more affordable and 
the shipping industry takes steps to further reduce 
emissions, the marine transport sector has begun to 
embrace liquefied natural gas (LNG) as a fuel source. 
Ports for LNG refueling are growing in number worldwide, and Caterpillar is meeting 
this demand with our MaK™ brand dual-fuel engines. The dual-fuel engines are 
designed for continuous operation on LNG, marine diesel oil and heavy fuel oil.
These engines have been at sea for several years aboard cargo vessels and are 
now being used inside a wider variety of ships. In 2018, the AIDAnova of Carnival 
Corporation’s German cruise line AIDA Cruises set sail as the world’s first cruise ship 
enabled to operate at sea and in port on LNG, which burns cleaner than heavy fuel oil. 
Inside the ship, which is longer than three football fields set end-to-end, are four of 
Caterpillar’s MaK 16 M 46 dual-fuel engines and a complete LNG handling system. 
The ship’s maiden voyage lasted for seven days with more than 7,000 passengers 
and crew aboard, releasing minimal soot or sulfur oxides and less nitrogen oxides 
or carbon dioxide than oil-burning ships. Caterpillar will supply Carnival Corporation 
with dual-fuel engines for additional ships as part of its new class of cruise vessels 
spanning multiple Carnival brands. 
The milestone is good news for the cruise industry. Companies are under pressure 
to further reduce their impact, particularly as they travel through environmentally 
sensitive areas. Increasingly, ship owners are placing orders for new ships to be 
equipped with engines that can use LNG as the primary fuel. And, the cruise industry 
utilization of LNG will help extend the infrastructure for distribution of LNG as a 
marine fuel, enabling other ship owners to consider use of LNG and helping the 
shipping industry progress toward their emissions reduction goals.
8    2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTBefore Cat® machines get to work on customer sites, 
many are assembled in our manufacturing facilities. 
Caterpillar is committed to doing this work in a way 
that minimizes our environmental footprint, including 
conserving energy and water, reducing greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions and reducing the amount of waste we 
send to landfills.
We have established global performance standards for 
environment, health and safety at our facilities that extend 
beyond compliance with laws and regulations. Our 2020 
sustainability goals include targets for energy, water and 
waste in our operations. These goals provide focus for  
our efforts to reduce our footprint while maintaining or 
improving performance and customer satisfaction.
We encourage all employees to actively participate in 
improving our operational performance. Caterpillar also 
collaborates with our suppliers to assess sustainability 
performance and identify opportunities for improvement. WORKING TO REDUCE  
OUR OPERATIONAL IMPACTPROCESS
 33% *
Operational energy intensity 
2006–2018
 44% *
GHG emissions intensity 
2006–2018
 38% *
Water consumption intensity 
2006–2018
 16%
Waste generation intensity 
2006–2018
* Data assurance details provided in our  
ESG Priorities & Approach . 
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
9The Perkins facility in Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India, produces 
engines for customers primarily in India and elsewhere in the 
Asia/Pacific region. At the facility, 4000 Series engines undergo 
end-to-end machining, assembly and testing, following rigorous 
manufacturing processes. 
While the facility has only been in operation for a few years, plant 
managers saw an opportunity to improve processes to conserve 
energy. They invited employees to identify ways to reduce energy 
and resource consumption in their daily operations. Then they 
selected the best ideas for implementation. 
Projects ranged from use of more efficient light fixtures to reusable 
pallets that cut down on packaging waste. In many cases, small 
changes led to significant energy and emissions reductions. One 
employee observed that the facility’s 90-kilowatt air compressor 
was more powerful than the facility needed and required substantial 
energy to operate. Replacing it with a 25-kilowatt compressor saved 
more than 249 MWh per year while meeting the facility’s needs. 
Another project involved diesel fuel consumed during engine 
testing. Team members identified process improvements to 
increase efficiency of testing, thereby reducing the fuel used. 
The team also found a way to recover and repurpose diesel fuel 
previously earmarked for the testing process. Improvements  
to the test process lowered emissions by about 130 metric tons 
CO2-equivalents.
The facility team was proud to implement solar water heaters 
for use in the employee canteen area. Previously, six individual 
hot water heaters were used to provide heated water for food 
preparation and dish washing. Now, rooftop units use solar  
power to heat the water, saving about 57 MWh per year. EMPLOYEES INSPIRE  ENERGY SAVINGS Sun-Powered 
Solutions in 
Mexico  
 
Three Caterpillar buildings in 
Mexico are now offsetting 
100 percent of their power 
usage with energy backed 
by solar power sources and 
clean energy certificates, 
thanks to a new five-year 
agreement with Ammper,  
a local renewable energy 
company. An additional  
two buildings run on a 
combination of solar power 
from Ammper and electricity 
produced by Caterpillar 
Mexico Energy Center 
natural gas-powered 
generators. Caterpillar 
Mexico plans to expand 
renewable and alternative 
energy use to more facilities.
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
10A SUSTAINABLE PLAN FOR EVERY PART  
The remanufacturing process is built on the concept of reusing 
raw materials and starts when a component reaches the end of its 
serviceable life. Dealers return the used iron (core) to Caterpillar 
where it is cleaned, inspected, salvaged and remanufactured to 
original factory specifications using state-of-the-art salvage 
techniques, strict reuse guidelines, advanced remanufacturing 
processes and unequalled quality control. Cat Reman customers 
receive remanufactured products with same-as-when-new 
performance and durability at a lower cost than buying new.  
Cat Reman also obtains limited amounts of nonconforming 
material (NCM) – parts that are defective or do not meet 
requirements, and would otherwise be scrapped – from our 
facilities that are producing new products. Cat Reman salvage 
technology and processes can transform this NCM from a 
conventional loss into an enterprise and customer win.
It is often taken for granted that facilities simply transfer the right 
scrap material to Reman, but until recently, this process has been 
manual and inconsistent. A Caterpillar team in Fargo, North Dakota, 
discovered an opportunity to strengthen collaboration and 
standardize transfer of NCM. The team organized a Kaizen event, 
a Lean manufacturing approach that brings multidisciplinary teams 
together to brainstorm solutions. Based on this work, they developed 
standard processes and a database of NCM products that can be 
used by Cat Reman.
THE RESULT: In 2018, the new standard procedures saved 
approximately $1.7 million in production costs across five 
facilities and established increased collaboration between  
Cat Reman and new product teams. The procedures also  
led to decreased energy consumption and raw material use. 
Rather than melting down NCM as scrap, 240 tons of material  
was salvaged for Cat Reman products.
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
11Sometimes one solution can be the answer to multiple problems. It was true at one 
of our engine facilities in Seguin, Texas, where the system for unloading and packing 
finished engines onto shipping pallets presented a host of opportunities to improve 
employee safety and ergonomics. The engines had to be moved using a manually 
operated bridge crane. But the crane’s controls were not ergonomically adjustable 
for operators who were unable to comfortably reach the controls, such that they had 
to stoop to install brackets. These conditions also regularly put operators behind 
cycle time. To top it off, human and forklift traffic occupied the same area.
A team of engineers at the facility worked on  
a solution, using 3D modeling, simulations  
and interviews of fellow team members to 
understand the scope of the need. They 
determined a multipurpose robot, nicknamed 
BRUTUS (Broader Robotic Utilization Through 
Unmatched Strength) would be an effective 
solution, working alongside operators to make 
engine loading smoother. BRUTUS functions as 
both a robot, unloading engines and moving 
them to a skidding table, and as a jib arm, 
giving operators the leverage they need to 
move engines into position. The team gained 
leadership approval for their proposal, and 
operators are already seeing positive results. 
The Seguin facility utilized safety tools to measure 
the elements of the process. The safety risk of 
two elements was eliminated completely, and 
the third element saw a signifcant safety risk 
reduction. In addition, teams are meeting cycle 
times due to less congestion in the process. And, 
because teams are working more efficiently, the 
facility is saving approximately $45,000 per month 
due to improved efficiency.PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS LEAD TO A SAFER WORKPLACE
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
12There’s more to work at Caterpillar than the work itself. 
We’re a workforce made up of smart, diverse, committed 
people who work together to help build a better world, from 
supporting our customers through groundbreaking solutions 
to giving back in our local communities. 
To continue to innovate and maintain our global leadership,  
we must attract, retain and develop the top talent. We do so  
by giving our people opportunities to explore different career 
paths within Caterpillar  – using their skills and capabilities by 
moving between business units, locations and job functions. 
Employees can also learn through a variety of formal and 
informal programs. We cultivate a workplace where team 
members feel supported and that reflects the diverse base  
of customers we serve worldwide. 
We are dedicated to the safety of employees at Caterpillar,  
as well as our extended team of contractors, dealers, suppliers  
and customers. This commitment to safety begins with the 
engineering of our products and manufacturing processes,  
and extends to operator training, job site solutions and 
promoting a culture of safety that guides the way we work. 
Given Caterpillar’s role in sustainable development projects 
across the world, we have a stake in making scalable progress 
possible for all. We encourage employees to engage in activities 
that contribute to society by volunteering or investing financial 
resources in worthwhile community projects. WORKING TO INVEST  
IN OUR PEOPLEPEOPLE
2018 Awards  
and Recognition
• America’s Best 
Employers for  
Diversity, Forbes
• Best Employers for 
Women, Forbes
• Human Rights  
Campaign Corporate 
Equality Index
• Top 50 Employers, 
CAREERS & the 
disABLED Magazine
• Top 50 Employers, 
Minority Engineer 
Magazine
• Top 50 Employers, 
Woman Engineer 
Magazine
13    2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTAt Caterpillar, we believe diverse ideas and experiences 
lead to deeper understanding. Our Women’s Initiative 
Network (WIN) employee resource group in Singapore 
demonstrated this in a big way. 
WIN surveyed female employees to learn how to improve 
Caterpillar’s culture and create opportunities for growth. 
The top answer: get more men involved. While men 
make up 85 percent of Caterpillar’s Singapore workforce, 
they comprise a small percentage of WIN membership 
and participants in the group’s events. WIN members 
wanted to develop men as allies and advocates for their 
female colleagues. They made progress with a number of 
initiatives, including a celebration of International Women’s 
Day, promotional videos and professional development 
discussions on best practices for supporting women in 
leadership. A series of mentoring sessions organized in 
collaboration with other Fortune 500 companies provided 
mentees – both men and women – with access to new role 
models and networking opportunities. 
As a result of these initiatives, the WIN Singapore chapter’s 
core membership grew from 10 percent to 35 percent male, 
while its advisory board is now split evenly between men 
and women. In addition, men now make up nearly 40 percent 
of participants at WIN Singapore events. Overall participation 
in these events has doubled over the past year, showing that 
this work is relevant to both women and men. INCLUDING EVERYONE  IN WOMEN’S  ADVANCEMENT 
Solar Turbines 
Welcomes an  
Untapped Source  
of Talent  
 The National Foundation for 
Autism Research (NFAR) 
Tech program teaches young 
adults with autism software 
testing skills to prepare them 
for jobs in the tech industry. 
When employees from Solar 
Turbines’ Package and Systems 
Engineering (PSE) team toured 
NFAR’s facility, they quickly 
realized that the students could 
be an excellent fit for Solar.
The PSE team worked with NFAR 
to develop a software testing 
internship program for individuals 
with autism. The first wave of 
interns immediately exceeded 
expectations. They quickly  
ran through quality gates and 
test cases and brought a new 
perspective to the testing, even 
discovering software issues that 
existing testers had never noticed. 
In under a year, the team saw an 
almost 90 percent reduction in  
its issue backlog. To date, the  
team has hired nine NFAR Tech 
interns, and Solar is grateful to 
have discovered this special 
source of talent. 
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
14For a global company like Caterpillar, we depend 
on talented people to run dealerships, repair our 
equipment and launch businesses that use Cat® 
machines. We know there are people across the 
world eager to take on these roles – they just need 
training and mentorship to help them get started. 
This training gap inspired us to create Technicians 
for the World, an online program sponsored by 
Caterpillar that meets the growing need for skilled 
service technicians. The program began with 
Technicians for Africa, which launched in Nigeria, 
Mozambique and the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo. It has since expanded to 12 countries.  
We also launced Technicians for Arabia in 2018 and 
will start Technicians for the Caribbean in 2019.
The Technicians for the World curriculum is based 
on the Caterpillar University Global Service 
Technician training program and takes between  
three and six months to complete. It is appropriate 
for those considering a career as a service 
technician, as well as existing technicians who 
want to improve their skills. Over 18 courses, 
students learn about the Cat product line, as 
well as the basics of electricity, hydraulics, 
drivetrains and more. After students complete 
their coursework, Caterpillar notifies a local Cat 
dealer, helping put them on the path to employment. 
Building this new skill base will benefit not only 
Caterpillar, but also our industry, as program 
graduates take jobs with our dealers, customers 
and peers. With this program, we are proud to 
help raise the bar for technical skills worldwide. CREATING PATHWAYS TO CAT ® DEALER CAREERS
2015 through year-end 20181,642 
have earned 
certification of 
completion
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
15SHARING THE VALUE OF WATER
Water is a fundamental human need – essential for drinking, 
cooking, washing, growing crops and much more. Yet across the 
world, according to the World Health Organization, one in nine 
people lacks access to clean and safe water. As a result, a child 
dies from a water-related disease every 90 seconds. Safe, readily 
available water is critical to the future of the developing world, 
not only because it can improve health, but because it frees 
individuals, particularly girls and women, to spend time on other 
tasks, like earning an education or running a business.
 
That’s why in 2018, the Caterpillar Foundation turned its focus 
toward examining the most pressing water challenges of our  
time, declaring 2018 the Year of Water and launching the Value  
of Water campaign. 
Through this campaign, we highlighted our work with grant partners such as charity:  
water, Ducks Unlimited, Global Citizen, Living Lands & Waters, Opportunity International, 
The Nature Conservancy and Water.org, which includes:
•  BRINGING CLEAN WATER  
to rural communities  
in Africa through the 
construction of new  
wells and innovative  
pipe systems•  RESTORING CRITICAL 
WETLAND  habitats that 
provide flood protection  
and water filtration
 
•  REDUCING RIVER 
POLLUTION  throughout  
the United States•  STRENGTHENING THE 
HEALTH  of the world’s  
vital rivers
 
•  DELIVERING RUNNING 
WATER  to homes in Africa, 
Asia and South America
In addition, through our longtime partnership with Water.org, the Caterpillar Foundation 
supports WaterCredit, which provides small loans to connect families living in poverty with 
water and sanitation access. With safe water and a toilet at home, individuals gain time and 
reduce health risks, important steps toward breaking the cycle of poverty. These locally 
managed projects can create a domino effect within communities as one generation teaches 
the next. Through this and other grants over the past several years, the Caterpillar Foundation 
has reached an estimated 2 million people with access to water – a significant contribution 
toward the Foundation’s goal to help 50 million rise out of poverty by 2020. 
~2 M
people have gained access to 
water through the Caterpillar 
Foundation’s support844 M  
people worldwide
lack access to  
safe water$1 invested in water  
and sanitation yields
$4 in economic  
return 
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 16Caterpillar has set aspirational, long-term goals for its operations and product stewardship. We believe these 
standards affirm our determination to lead our industry to a more sustainable future.  
We focus on efficiency improvements, and these efforts contributed to year-over-year performance gains in  
most areas in 2018. Improved sales and revenue, in addition to efficiency gains made in the last several years,  
are reflected in the improved performance toward our 2020 intensity targets.
GOAL/KPI BASELINE 2015 2016 2017 20182020 
GOALPERSPECTIVE
OPERATIONS
GOAL: Reduce recordable workplace injury rate to 0.6 and lost-time injury case rate to 0.15 by 2020.
RECORDABLE INJURY 
FREQUENCY (RIF)
Recordable injuries per 
200,000 hours worked6.22
(2003)0.59 0.50 0.49 0.53 0.60We have improved our Recordable Injury 
Frequency rate by 91.5 percent from our 
2003 base year. However, our RIF increased 
by 8 percent from 2017 to 2018. Relentless 
focus on safety is important for our team 
members in all work areas. Our vision has 
always been, and continues to be, zero 
injuries. Our safety goals represent 
expected progress on our path to zero. 
While we acknowledge that our current 
RIF has surpassed our long-established 
goals, we will continue to strive for 
improvement until we reach our ultimate 
goal of zero. 
We have improved our Lost-Time Case 
Frequency Rate by 94.6 percent from our 
2003 base year. We are encouraged that our 
LTCFR declined by approximately 6 percent 
from 2017 to 2018, even when our RIF 
increased modestly. We strive for all team 
members to go home safe, every day. LOST-TIME  
CASE FREQUENCY  
RATE (LTCFR)
Work-related injuries 
resulting in lost time per 
200,000 hours worked2.97
(2003)0.20 0.19 0.17 0.16 0.15
GOAL:  Reduce energy intensity by 50 percent from 2006 to 2020.
ENERGY INTENSITY1
Absolute gigajoules 
energy use/million 
dollars of revenue692
(2006)525 598 521 466 346Operational energy intensity has decreased 
33% from the base year, while absolute 
energy consumption decreased 11% during 
the same period.GOALS & PROGRESS
End notes providing additional details regarding the data presented are available in the ESG Priorities and Approach , see About this Report.
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 17GOAL/KPI BASELINE 2015 2016 2017 20182020 
GOALPERSPECTIVE
OPERATIONS
GOAL:  Use alternative/renewable sources to meet 20 percent of our energy needs by 2020.
ALTERNATIVE/
RENEWABLE ENERGY4,5,6
Alternative and 
renewable electrical 
energy use/total 
electrical use x 100N/A* 27.1% 27.9% 31.2% 32.5% 20%In 2018, 32.5% of our electrical energy 
was from renewable or alternative 
sources. In 2018, 17.4% of our electrical 
energy was from renewable sources.
GOAL: R educe greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 50 percent from 2006 to 2020.
GHG EMISSIONS1,2 
INTENSITY
Absolute metric tons  
of CO2e/million dollars  
of revenue72.1
(2006)48.6 54.2 46.4 40.3 36.0GHG intensity has decreased 44% since 
the base year. In addition, our absolute 
GHG emissions decreased by 26% from 
the base year; however, they increased 
4.7% from 2017 to 2018.
GOAL:  Reduce water consumption intensity by 50 percent from 2006 to 2020.
WATER CONSUMPTION 
INTENSITY1,7
Absolute thousand 
gallons of water/million 
dollars of revenue76.3
(2006)58.9 66.0 58.1 47.2 38.2Water consumption intensity has 
decreased 38% since the base year 
and 19% from 2017 to 2018. In addition, 
absolute water consumption has 
decreased by 35% since 2006 and 
reduced 5% from 2017 to 2018.
GOAL:  Reduce by-product materials intensity by 50 percent from 2006 to 2020.
BY-PRODUCT 
MATERIALS INTENSITY
Absolute metric tons of 
by-product materials/
million dollars of revenue13.8
(2006)14.3 14.5 13.2 11.6 6.9By-product materials intensity has 
decreased 16% since the base year.  
*NA=not applicable
End notes providing additional details regarding the data presented are available in the ESG Priorities and Approach , see About this Report.
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT 18GOAL/KPI BASELINE 2015 2016 2017 20182020 
GOALPERSPECTIVE
GOAL:  Design all new facility construction to meet Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) or comparable 
green building criteria.
BUILDINGS DESIGNED 
in accordance with the 
U.S. Green Building 
Council’s LEED BD+C 
(Building Design 
and Construction) 
certification process or 
comparable criteriaN/A* 33% 100% 100% 100% 100%Facilities designed to the LEED criteria 
are more energy- and resource-efficient 
than traditional construction. 
In 2018, our Zebrak, Czech Republic, facility 
met the requirements of certification in 
accordance with the U.S. Green Building 
Council’s LEED BD+C (Building Design and 
Construction) process.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
GOAL:  Provide leadership in the safety of people in, on and around our products.
SEE PAGES 6, 12-13
GOAL:  Increase managed fleet hours by 100 percent from 2013 to 2020.
FLEET HOURS
Percent increase  
from 2013N/A* 68% 98% 124% 249% 100%Demand from our customers continues 
to grow for solutions provided by our Job 
Site Solutions team in partnership with 
our Cat® dealers.
GOAL:  Increase remanufactured and rebuild business sales by 20 percent from 2013 to 2020.
REMAN
Percent business sales 
growth since 20138N/A* -15% -13% 2% 7%
20%Our remanufacturing and rebuild 
businesses provide customers with 
immediate cost savings, help extend 
product life cycles and use materials 
more efficiently. We seek to continue  
to grow these businesses.REBUILD
Percent business sales 
growth since 20138N/A* -3% -10% 14% 17%
GOAL:  Leverage technology and innovation to improve sustainability of our products, services and solutions for our customers.
REPORTED SALES  
AND REVENUES
derived from products, 
services and solutions that 
demonstrate an improved 
sustainability benefit over 
prior offerings10N/A* 18% 21% 21% 19% NA*Caterpillar has a long history of and a 
strong process for innovation in the 
research and development of products 
and solutions.
*NA=not applicable
End notes providing additional details regarding the data presented are available in the ESG Priorities and Approach , see About this Report.
19    2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORTAbout this Report
Caterpillar publishes an annual Sustainability Report that highlights our progress 
and performance. This report is available in a digital format on our corporate 
website, where we also make available discussions of our Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) priorities and a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index. 
Information regarding reporting boundaries, data assurance and details regarding 
the data is available within our ESG Priorities & Approach  content on our website.
Forward-looking Statements
Certain statements in this Sustainability Progress Report relate to future events and expectations and are forward-looking 
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “believe,” 
“estimate,” “will be,” “will,” “would,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “project,” “intend,” “could,” “should” or other 
similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of 
historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our outlook, 
projections, forecasts or trend descriptions. These statements do not guarantee future performance and speak 
only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.  
Caterpillar’s actual results may differ materially from those described or implied in our forward-looking statements 
based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) global and regional economic conditions and economic 
conditions in the industries we serve; (ii) commodity price changes, material price increases, fluctuations in demand 
for our products or significant shortages of material; (iii) government monetary or fiscal policies; (iv) political and 
economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we operate; (v) our 
ability to develop, produce and market quality products that meet our customers’ needs; (vi) the impact of the highly 
competitive environment in which we operate on our sales and pricing; (vii) information technology security threats 
and computer crime; (viii) additional restructuring costs or a failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from 
past or future cost reduction actions; (ix) failure to realize all of the anticipated benefits from initiatives to increase 
our productivity, efficiency and cash flow and to reduce costs; (x) inventory management decisions and sourcing 
practices of our dealers and our OEM customers; (xi) a failure to realize, or a delay in realizing, all of the anticipated 
benefits of our acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures; (xii) union disputes or other employee relations issues; 
(xiii) adverse effects of unexpected events including natural disasters; (xiv) disruptions or volatility in global 
financial markets limiting our sources of liquidity or the liquidity of our customers, dealers and suppliers; (xv) failure 
to maintain our credit ratings and potential resulting increases to our cost of borrowing and adverse effects on our 
cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets; (xvi) our Financial Products segment’s 
risks associated with the financial services industry; (xvii) changes in interest rates or market liquidity conditions; 
(xviii) an increase in delinquencies, repossessions or net losses of Cat Financial’s customers; (xix) currency 
fluctuations; (xx) our or Cat Financial’s compliance with financial and other restrictive covenants in debt agreements; 
(xxi) increased pension plan funding obligations; (xxii) alleged or actual violations of trade or anti-corruption laws 
and regulations; (xxiii) international trade policies and their impact on demand for our products and our competitive 
position; (xxiv) additional tax expense or exposure including the impact of U.S. tax reform; (xxv) significant legal 
proceedings, claims, lawsuits or government investigations; (xxvi) new regulations or changes in financial services 
regulations; (xxvii) compliance with environmental laws and regulations; and (xxviii) other factors described in 
more detail in Caterpillar’s Forms 10-Q, 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
®
© 2019 Caterpillar. All Rights Reserved. CAT, CATERPILLAR, LET’S DO THE WORK, their respective logos, 
“Caterpillar Yellow”, the “Power Edge” and Cat “Modern Hex” trade dress as well as corporate and 
product identity used herein, are trademarks of Caterpillar and may not be used without permission.
Caterpillar: Nonconfidential
   2018      SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
20