2020 Sustainability Report
Caterpillar’s Environmental, Social and Governance ApproachCONTENTSCEO MESSAGE  ........................................................ 3
2030 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS  .............................. 5
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  .................................. 9
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONS  ......... 12
MATERIALS  ............................................................ 22
REMANUFACTURING  ........................................... 23
PEOPLE  ................................................................... 26
PHILANTHROPY  .................................................... 33
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL  
AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) DATA  ....................... 36
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING  
STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) INDEX  ................ 39
DATA ASSURANCE  ............................................... 40
ABOUT THIS REPORT  ........................................... 42INTRODUCING OUR 2030 
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 
SEE PAGE 5HEAR FROM OUR CEO 
SEE PAGE 3Caterpillar’s long-standing commitment to sustainability 
inspires us to help our customers build a better world 
through products and services that help fulfill society’s basic 
needs – such as shelter, clean water, education and reliable 
energy – in a sustainable way. 
We are committed to contributing to a reduced-carbon  
future and supporting global efforts to mitigate the impact  
of climate change. We demonstrate this through our significant 
progress in reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from 
our operations and our continued investment in new products, 
technologies and services to help customers achieve their 
climate-related objectives. 
We establish and report our progress against ambitious 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) goals. This 
year we are introducing seven new goals for 2030 focused  
on our customers’, business’ and stakeholders’ most 
relevant issues; five are centered on climate and the 
environment, and two focus on employee and customer 
safety. You can read about our accomplishments to date  
and new ESG goals in this report.
LEVERAGING OUR ENTERPRISE STRATEGY 
We leverage all three elements of our corporate strategy – 
operational excellence, expanded offerings and services – to 
achieve our sustainability initiatives. Continuous improvement of operational excellence 
principles such as safety, quality and Lean help eliminate 
waste and contribute to achieving our sustainability 
objectives. Safety is our number one priority, and we 
achieved our best safety performance on record in 2020 for 
the second consecutive year. Operational excellence also 
helps reduce emissions through efficiency initiatives and 
investment in alternative and renewable power sources  
in our operations. Since we first announced our 2020 
sustainability goals in 2006, we have made significant 
progress, demonstrating our commitment to reducing  
our GHG emissions. By 2020, we reduced GHG emissions 
intensity from our operations by 51% from our 2006 baseline, 
exceeding our goal. We also obtained 33% of our electrical 
energy from renewables or alternative sources, exceeding 
our 2020 goal. 
BUILDING A  
BETTER WORLD  
FOR 95 YEARSCEO MESSAGE
This year we are introducing seven 
new goals for 2030 focused on our 
customers’, business’ and 
stakeholders’ most relevant issues; 
five are centered on climate and the 
environment, and two focus on 
employee and customer safety. 
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   3   | We are helping our customers achieve their climate-related 
goals through expanded offerings by providing products  
that facilitate fuel transition, increased operational efficiency 
and reduced emissions. Our innovations include a battery-
powered, zero-emissions switcher locomotive and underground 
loader, as well as reciprocating engines and gas turbines that 
burn hydrogen blends, landfill gas and other biogases. We 
are also developing a variety of alternative power solutions 
to support a lower-carbon future, including battery-powered 
construction machines. 
Services represent the value our dealers and Caterpillar 
provide after the original equipment purchase to deliver  
a superior customer experience and positively impact the 
environment. We are investing in cutting-edge technology, 
new products and services to help customers improve fuel 
efficiency and reduce emissions. 
Our remanufacturing and rebuild options deliver multiple 
sustainability benefits, returning components at the end of 
their initial serviceable lives to same-as-when-new condition, 
thereby reducing waste and minimizing the need for raw 
material, energy and water to produce new parts. The new 
Caterpillar Remanufacturing Division is accelerating our work 
with Cat dealers to expand our range of repair, rebuild and 
remanufacturing services for Cat products.  CEO Message
I am confident Caterpillar is well-
positioned to continue improving the 
quality of the environment and 
communities where we live and work.BUILDING A BETTER WORLD
The Caterpillar Foundation has been improving lives around 
the world for nearly 70 years, and the challenges of 2020 
made this purpose particularly urgent. The Foundation’s 
exceptional level of support for worldwide COVID-19 relief 
efforts — a $10 million (USD) donation, including a 2:1 match 
on U.S. employee and retiree donations – speaks to our 
Caterpillar team’s generosity. 
Events of the past year reminded us of the importance of 
living our Caterpillar Values every day and supporting the 
fight against racism and injustice. Caterpillar joined the 
OneTen coalition as a founding member, making an annual 
financial commitment of $1.5 million and an annual hiring 
commitment of at least 200 Black American employees. The 
Caterpillar Foundation reinforced our support of the fight for 
equal rights through its $1 million donation, split between 
the Equal Justice Initiative and the NAACP Legal Defense and 
Educational Fund, Inc. 
In a year of unprecedented challenges, our global team  
rose to the occasion. With resilience, innovation and 
engagement, they supported customers, enabling them  
to perform the essential work of society. I am confident 
Caterpillar is well-positioned to continue improving the 
quality of the environment and communities around the 
world. We are steadfast in our commitment to attaining  
our ESG goals and helping our customers achieve their 
climate-related objectives as they build a better, more 
sustainable world.
Jim Umpleby
Chairman and CEO
Cat® generator sets installed at a landfill gas 
processing and power plant near Montreal,  
Canada, producing electricity from landfill gas.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   4   | Learn more about our  
2030 sustainability goals  
Caterpillar has a long-standing commitment to sustainability, with our history of 
sustainable innovation spanning more than 95 years. We share the concerns of 
governments and the public about the risks of climate change and support global 
efforts to mitigate its impact. We are committed to further reducing Caterpillar’s 
greenhouse gas emissions while helping our customers meet their climate-related 
objectives. We are supporting our customers during the energy transition to a 
lower-carbon future through investments in new products, technologies and 
services. We are announcing seven new sustainability goals to achieve by 2030, 
including five climate- and environmental-related goals and two focused on 
employee and customer safety. INTRODUCING
 2030
GOALS
PRODUCT EMISSIONS & 
ENERGY EFFICIENCYOPERATIONS ENERGY  
& EMISSIONS
We have set a science-based Scope 1 and 
2 goal to reduce absolute greenhouse gas 
emissions from our operations by 
30%  from 2018 to 2030.
REMANUFACTURING
Increase sales and revenues from 
remanufacturing offerings by  
25%  from 2018 to 2030. OPERATIONS WATER
 Implement water management strategies at 
100%  of facilities located in
  water high-risk areas by 2030.
EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY
We aspire to prevent all injuries  
and will further our industry-leading 
safety results by reducing Recordable 
Injury Frequency (RIF) by  
50%  from 2018 to 2030.CUSTOMER SAFETY
Provide leadership in the safety of 
people who work in, on and around 
our products.OPERATIONS WASTE  
Reduce landfill intensity by  
50%  from 2018 to 2030.100%  of Caterpillar’s new products 
through 2030 will be more sustainable than the 
previous generation through collaborating 
with customers, reduced waste, improved 
design for rebuild/remanufacturing, lower 
emissions or improved efficiency.
SASB  
TopicClimate- and Environmental-
related Goal
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   5   | Caterpillar is committed to sustainability,  
and contributing to a reduced-carbon future. 
We demonstrate this in many ways including 
through our significant progress in reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our 
operations and our continued investment in 
new products, technologies and services to 
help our customers achieve their climate-
related objectives as they build a better,  
more sustainable world.
SUSTAINABILITY 
AT CATERPILLAR
FOCUS AREAS
We have identified a set of focus areas relevant to 
our business that guide environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) initiatives and decision-making 
throughout our global operations:
 ĉemployee health and safety
 ĉoperations energy and emissions
 ĉoperations water
 ĉoperations waste
 ĉproduct emissions/energy efficiency
 ĉremanufacturing
 ĉcustomer safety
 ĉmaterial sourcing 
 ĉhuman capital management
These focus areas were refreshed during our 
recent goal-setting efforts and are closely aligned 
with topics covered by the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Resource 
Transformation sector and Industrial Machinery  
& Goods industry. 
Caterpillar’s global workforce is united by Our Values in 
Action, Caterpillar’s Code of Conduct. Integrity, 
Excellence, Teamwork, Commitment and Sustainability 
provide the foundation for our values-based culture.
Sustainability, one of our five Values in Action, is part of 
who we are and what we do.  It inspires us to help our 
customers build a better world.
Learn more about 
sustainability at Caterpillar  
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   6   | SUSTAINABILITY VISION SUSTAINABILITY MISSION
Our longstanding commitment to sustainability 
inspires us to improve the quality of the 
environment and the communities where we 
live and work and provide products and services 
that help our customers fulfill society’s basic 
needs—such as shelter, clean water, sanitation, 
food and reliable power—in a sustainable way.We strive for economic growth through 
infrastructure and energy development 
while providing solutions that support 
communities and protect the planet.
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
ENVIRONMENT
 ĉU.S. Environmental Protection Agency's 
Clean Air Excellence Award in the 
category of Clean Air Technology for the 
Cat 3512E Tier 4 DGB engineBUSINESS
 ĉDow Jones Sustainability Indices, World  
and North America, 21 years 
 ĉNo. 44, Fortune World’s Most Admired 
Companies 
 ĉNo. 21, Wall Street Journal's 100 Most 
Sustainably Managed Companies (as of 
February 2021) 
 ĉBest-Managed Companies of 2020,  
Wall Street Journal
 ĉS&P Global 2021 Sustainability Yearbook
 ĉNo. 203 of 399, Newsweek America’s Most 
Responsible Companies 2021 WORKPLACE
 ĉForbes Magazine World’s Best Employers 2020 
(#99), Best Employers for New Grads 2020 
(#166), Best Employers for Women 2020 (#289)
 ĉAmerica’s Best Employers for Diversity 2020,  
Forbes Magazine
 ĉ80% Ranking, Human Rights Campaign 
Corporate Equality Index 2020 
 ĉ2020 “Best Places to Work for Disability 
Inclusion;” Disability Equality Index 
 ĉ2020 Best Company to Work for in Brazil, Great  
Place to Work Institute
 ĉChile’s 20 Best Places in 2020 to Work for LGBTQ 
Equality; Human Rights Campaign
COMMUNITY
 ĉUnited Way Worldwide’s Global Corporate 
Leadership Program
 ĉ2019-2020 U.S. President’s Volunteer Service 
Award, Junior AchievementTHE CATERPILLAR SUSTAINABILITY 
EXCELLENCE AWARDS 
For more than 10 years, the annual internal 
awards have recognized Caterpillar teams  
or individuals that demonstrate sustainable 
excellence through the development of more 
sustainable products, services, solutions  
or processes. 
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   7   | 2020 GOALS: PROGRESS ON OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY
Caterpillar set its first sustainability goals in 2006, establishing targets to be achieved by 2020 related to our operations and 
product stewardship. In 2013, we revised our strategy and refreshed our goals, adding several new targets. Although the 
global pandemic adversely affected results in several areas in 2020, we are proud of the significant progress that has been 
realized through the close of the decade. 
OPERATIONS GOALS
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP GOALSSafety: Recordable 
Injury Frequency
GOAL
Reduce RIF to 0.60
EXCEEDED BY 30%0.42GOALGreenhouse Gas 
Emissions
GOAL: Reduce  
GHG intensity  
by 50% from 2006
EXCEEDED  BY 2%GOAL
51%Energy  
Source
GOAL: Use alternative / 
renewable sources to meet 
20% of our energy needs
EXCEEDED BY 65%GOAL
33%Energy  
Consumption
GOAL: Reduce  
energy intensity  
by 50% from 2006
PROGRESS OF 66% 
GOAL
33%
Safety: Lost-Time Case  
Frequency Rate
GOAL: 
Reduce LTFR to 0.15
GOAL
0.20
PROGRESS OF 98%Water  
Consumption
GOAL: Reduce water  
consumption intensity  
by 50% from 2006
GOAL
31%
PROGRESS OF 62%Waste  
Generation
GOAL: Reduce by-product  
materials intensity  
by 50% from 2006
GOAL
4%
PROGRESS OF 8%Sustainable  
Construction
GOAL: Design all new 
construction to meet Leadership 
in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) or comparable 
green building criteria
Our new facilities are  
designed to be more  
energy- and resource-  
efficient, including our  
most recently completed  
construction in 2019 that  
met LEED certification  
requirements.
Customer  
Safety
GOAL: Provide leadership  
in the safety of people in,  
and around our products
We prioritize safety  
in the design and  
development of every  
Caterpillar product,  
service or solutions.Products, Services  
and Solutions
GOAL: Leverage technology  
and innovation to improve  
sustainability of our products,  
services and solutions for  
our customers
We annually introduce 
new products with 
sustainable attributes 
that increase 
productivity, improve 
fuel economy and / or 
lower emissions.Systems  
Optimization
GOAL: Increase managed 
fleet hours by 100%  
from 2013
EXCEEDED BY 669%GOAL
769%Reman and  
Rebuild
GOAL: Increase  
remanufacturing and rebuild 
sales by 20% from 2013
GOAL 
-12%
1%
For more information, refer to the ESG Data beginning on page 3 6.REMAN
REBUILD Goal Attained
 Progress Achieved
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   8   | Corporate 
Governance
We believe that a robust governance 
framework creates long-term value  
for our shareholders, strengthens  
board and management accountability, 
and builds trust in the company  
and our brand.  
Caterpillar leadership regularly reports to the board’s 
Public Policy and Governance Committee regarding 
sustainability and climate strategies, priorities, goals 
and performance. The committee is briefed on the 
environmental, social & governance (ESG) issues as 
well as the perspectives of investors, customers, 
employees and other stakeholders. The committee 
also reviews Caterpillar’s annual political contributions 
and recommends the amount the company should 
contribute to the Caterpillar Foundation. The committee 
provides regular updates to the board and may retain 
advisors and consultants as needed to assist it in fulfilling 
its responsibilities.2020
Size of Board 11
Number of Independent Directors 10
Average Age of Directors 63
Average Director Tenure (in years) 8
Annual Election of Directors Yes
Mandatory Retirement Age 74
Gender and Diversity 45%
Majority Voting in Director Elections Yes
Independent Presiding Director Yes
Code of Conduct for Directors, Officers and Employees Yes
Supermajority Voting Threshold for Mergers No
Proxy Access Yes
Shareholder Action by Written Consent No
Shareholder Ability to Call Special Meetings Yes
Poison Pill No
Stock Ownership Guidelines for Directors and Executive 
Officers Yes
Anti-Hedging and Pledging Policies Yes
Clawback Policy YesGovernance Framework
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   9   | CODE OF CONDUCT 
Caterpillar operates according to Our Values in Action—
Caterpillar’s Code of Conduct. The Code defines our 
Values—Integrity, Excellence, Teamwork, Commitment 
and Sustainability—which represent what we stand for 
and how we conduct ourselves with our customers, 
suppliers and one another. All Caterpillar employees are 
annually required to complete Code of Conduct training. 
As part of this training, employees must certify that they 
have read, understand and agree to comply with the 
Code of Conduct.Corporate Governance
Learn more about our governance 
framework, Corporate Governance 
initiatives and board composition:  
2021 Caterpillar Proxy Statement  
Board Committees  
Caterpillar Code of Conduct 
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   10   | Corporate Governance
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk is an inherent part of conducting global business. 
Caterpillar identifies and monitors business risks through a 
robust internal Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program. 
We engage in constructive regulation and public policy 
discussions that benefit employees, customers  
and shareholders. 
To better inform our decision-making, Caterpillar evaluates 
risks annually at the business unit and enterprise levels on three 
dimensions: impact, likelihood and mitigation effectiveness.
We incorporate the results of the ERM risk assessment into 
action plans to mitigate the identified risks. There is strong 
engagement in the ERM process from the CEO, executives 
and senior leaders. We embed our risk culture within the 
business. The company’s officers share accountability for 
business risks, and the board has oversight of the enterprise 
process. The board and its committees oversee risk. We 
evaluate senior executives based, in part, on their ability  
to mitigate risks, through regular discussions between the 
executive office and business leadership.
We also review compliance risks as part of the ERM risk 
assessment process and manage them as part of Caterpillar’s 
Compliance program. These risks cover a broad range of 
issues, including legal and regulatory compliance.
The Compliance program establishes enterprise-level 
compliance expectations. Business unit personnel and 
compliance professionals implement controls to meet those 
requirements with the support of compliance professionals, 
legal personnel and subject matter advisors. These efforts 
are enhanced by regular communications, training and 
annual assessment processes. Through these programs, 
Caterpillar better manages risk and gauges the potential 
impact of various outcomes.POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
We advocate for policies, agreements, legislation and 
regulations that enable us to help our customers build  
a better world. 
Where allowable by law, Caterpillar may make corporate 
contributions to campaigns, individual candidates or political 
committees to support public policies we believe will 
promote our business interests. The vice president of Global 
Government & Corporate Affairs manages all political and 
advocacy activities at the state, federal and international 
levels—coordinating and reviewing legislative and regulatory 
priorities critical to the company’s business with senior 
management. In addition, the board’s Public Policy and 
Governance Committee reviews Caterpillar’s significant 
legislative and regulatory priorities, policy on political activities 
and contributions, corporate political contributions, trade 
association participation and the political contribution 
activities of the Caterpillar Political Action Committee (CATPAC).
CATPAC contributions are made only in federal and state 
elections. CATPAC is funded through voluntary contributions 
by eligible individuals. A steering committee comprised of 
Caterpillar non-officer employees representing a diverse mix 
of U.S. locations and business units oversees all CATPAC 
disbursements to ensure they promote the company’s 
business interests.
Caterpillar also maintains memberships in trade associations 
and business groups that may advocate on behalf of 
business community segments. We are committed to 
supporting these organizations, as they champion public 
policies that contribute to the business community’s growth 
and success.
Additional information regarding 
Caterpillar’s corporate contributions, 
CATPAC contributions and trade 
association memberships is  
available on our political  
engagement website  Risks Managed
 ĉoperational
 ĉstrategic
 ĉfinancial
 ĉcompliance
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   11   | Energy, Fuel 
Economy & 
Emissions
Caterpillar shares the concerns of governments 
and the public about the risks of climate change 
and supports global efforts to mitigate its impact. 
We are committed to contributing to a reduced-  
carbon future. We demonstrate this in many 
ways including through our significant progress 
in reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
from our operations and our continued 
investment in new products, technologies  
and services to help our customers achieve 
their climate-related objectives as they build  
a better, more sustainable world.Read our new climate  
and energy statement  
We are focused on achieving our climate-related 
goals while also supporting our customers in 
achieving their climate-related objectives. We have 
a legacy of providing products and services that 
continually improve the quality of the environment 
and our communities by fulfilling society’s basic 
needs such as shelter, clean water, education and 
reliable energy—in a sustainable way.Caterpillar generator sets provide critical backup power for wind 
installations, such as at Rubart Station in Kansas (as pictured).
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   12   | ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Caterpillar manages hundreds of facilities around the world, 
all of which require energy. Some of these operations, 
especially our manufacturing sites, are energy-intensive.  
To mitigate our impact, we are improving energy efficiency, 
investing in alternative and renewable power generation 
sources, and making other environmental improvements  
to conserve water and manage waste.
Our enterprise energy management team builds awareness, 
encourages action and develops improvements in energy 
efficiency and alternative/renewable power generation. These 
solutions include purchasing renewable energy certificates and 
installing renewable energy sources, such as photovoltaics 
(PV) or a microgrid installation that combines PV with battery 
storage to supplement and offset electricity generated with 
diesel fuel at an off-grid location. One significant contribution 
to alternative energy consumption is the operation of 
combined heat and power (CHP) systems to power several 
manufacturing facilities. The energy management team 
evaluates opportunities for replication of CHP , PV and microgrids 
at other locations. We also continue to assess new ways to 
upgrade systems and make facilities more efficient.Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
EHS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Our high-performance standards for environmental, 
health and safety (EHS) encourage going beyond 
merely complying with EHS laws and regulations. 
Our EHS assurance manual outlines Caterpillar’s EHS 
Management System and establishes fundamental 
requirements for all workplaces globally, including 
majority-owned subsidiaries and majority-owned joint 
ventures. Our facilities assess compliance with our 
requirements annually, and our EHS assessment 
team reviews those assessments while also 
conducting more in-depth reviews of select  
facilities each year. 
Beyond meeting standard expectations, we 
encourage facilities to implement their own initiatives 
to improve safety, decrease energy use and increase 
productivity. Facilities evaluate potential initiatives 
based on the total annual investment required, total 
anticipated cost savings and average pay-back 
period. We also invite facilities to report emissions 
reduction activities through internal awards and 
recognition processes.
Continuous improvement is an  
essential part of this approach, with  
new manufacturing technologies  
and best practices quickly creating 
opportunities for greater efficiency.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   13   | 33%  of our electrical energy was from 
renewable or alternative sources in 2020.Use alternative/renewable 
sources to meet 20% of our 
energy needs by 20204, 5, 6
ALTERNATIVE/RENEWABLE ENERGY
Sum of alternative and renewable electrical 
energy use/total electrical use x 100Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
201731%
201832%
201935%
202033%
20%
2020GOALALTERNATIVE/RENEWABLE 2020 GOALNEW 2030 GOAL:
We have set a 
science-based 
Scope 1 and 2 goal to 
reduce our absolute 
greenhouse gas 
emissions from our 
operations by 30%  
from 2018 to 2030.51%  Our GHG emissions intensity 
decreased 51% from 2006 to 2020, achieving our 
2020 target. In addition, our absolute GHG 
emissions decreased by 51% from 2006 to 2020. 
Increases in productivity and efficiency have 
helped us to achieve our 2020 GHG emissions goal.Reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions intensity by 50% 
from 2006 to 2020
GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY1
Absolute metric tons CO2e /million 
dollars of revenueTOTAL ABSOLUTE GHG EMISSIONS— SCOPE 1&2
Million Metric Tons (2020)
200672.1
201746.4
201840.4
201933.0
202035.0
202036.0
GOALGHG 2020 GOAL
1.461
0.767Scope 2 market-based 
(indirect emissions from 
purchased electricity, 
heat or steam)
Scope 1 
(direct emissions)
0.827 million metric tons – Scope 2 location-based2
(not included in the visual pictured here)0.694ENERGY AND GHG EMISSION GOALS
33%  Operations energy intensity decreased 33% from 
2006 to 2020, and increased 4% from 2019 to 2020.  Reduce energy intensity by 
50% from 2006 to 2020
ENERGY INTENSITY3
Absolute gigajoules energy use/million 
dollars of sales and revenues
2006692
2017521
2018461
2019445
2020 2020463
346
GOAL
201723.7
201825.2
201923.9
202019.3
20172.45
20182.55
20192.38
20202.09ENERGY 2020 GOAL
TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION
Sum of purchased and self-generated 
electricity in million MWhTOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION3
Absolute energy use million  
gigajoules Goal Achieved
Solar Turbines provide alternative energy technology  
that is powering some of the largest industries in the 
world, including some of our own facilities.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   14   | THE EVOLUTION OF ADVANCED POWER SOURCES
Clean, efficient  
reciprocating engines
Making established power sources even 
more efficient and fuel-flexible (T4 Diesel, 
Natural Gas, Biodiesel, Biogas, Dynamic 
Gas Blending, Hydrogen Blends)
Pairing established power sources  
with new technologies in a hybrid  
format (Electric Drive, Battery,  
Photovoltaic, Microgrid) Advanced  
technologies
Replacing established power  
sources with stand-alone  
new technologies  
(Energy Storage, Full Electric)Aftermarket parts  
and service
Delivering remanufacture, 
repair, rebuild, retrofit and 
repower services 
(Remanufacturing, Rebuild, 
Repower, Retrofit Kits) Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS
We are contributing to a reduced-carbon future through our continued investment in new products, technologies and 
services. We are helping our customers achieve their climate-related goals by providing products that facilitate fuel 
transition, increased operational efficiency and reduced emissions. Our innovations include a battery-powered, zero-
emissions switcher locomotive and underground loader, as well as reciprocating engines and gas turbines that burn 
hydrogen blends, landfill gas and other biogases. We are also developing a variety of alternative power solutions to support  
a lower-carbon future, including battery-powered construction machines. 
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   15   | Many of our advanced power offerings are already at  
 work on customer sites in each of our primary business 
segments, either complementing our existing engines or 
as stand-alone power delivery systems. Other solutions 
are in development to meet our customers’ climate-
related goals and requirements for performance, 
durability and economic value: 
Renewable Fuels —This includes reciprocating  
engines that run on biodiesel, biogas and  
hydrogen blends. 
Fuel Cells —Using renewable hydrogen fuel as a 
scalable electric power source. And, we are  
exploring the opportunities within fuel cells  
powered by renewable hydrogen for stationary  
and mobile equipment. Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
Electric & Hybrid Powertrains —Employing an electric 
drive transmission with power components. Examples 
of this technology include the D6 XE electric drive 
dozer and the 988K XE wheel loader, the company’s 
latest diesel electric drive construction machines, 
that improve fuel efficiency and productivity.
Batteries —Powering work with stored electrical 
energy. The EMD™ Joule locomotive is a new battery-
powered, zero-emissions switcher locomotive that 
Progress Rail developed in collaboration with our 
customer Vale. The locomotive is commercially 
available in 2021. And, the R1700 Underground Load 
Haul Dump (LHD) Loader features battery electric 
power with zero emissions. 
Microgrids —Integrating renewable energy sources  
into electric power systems. At the Otjikoto Mine in 
Namibia, customer B2Gold Corp. installed over 
62,000 Cat solar panels combined with a Cat 
Microgrid Master Controller that allows consistent 
power in all weather conditions. The installation 
delivered $1 million in annual fuel savings. Whatever our customer’s goals–lower 
greenhouse gas emissions, energy 
flexibility, business sustainability–we 
provide the advanced power that 
keeps them working.
Cat Microgrid systems enable customers to integrate renewable power 
utilizing Cat products including: Microgrid Master Controllers, photovoltaic 
solar modules, energy storage systems and generators. Pictured is a Cat 
Microgrid system at B2Gold Corp.’s Otjikoto Mine, Namibia.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   16   | Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
SUPPORTING CUSTOMERS IN THE FIELD
We collaborate with dealers and customers to deliver 
customized solutions that help optimize energy use and 
provide training for operators on how to use our 
equipment more efficiently. For example, our efficiency 
experts can help customers evaluate and achieve 
emissions goals, reduce noise and dust, implement 
fuel-saving techniques, and optimize idle management 
practices and fuel and fluid usage. 
Increase managed fleet hours  
by 100% from 2013 to 2020
MANAGED FLEET HOURS   
(% increase )
2020 2020 2019 2018 2017124%280%510%769%
100%
GOALSYSTEMS OPTIMIZATION 2020 GOAL REGULATORY STANDARDS AND  
INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT
Caterpillar provides U.S. EPA Tier 4/EU Stage IV, EU Stage V  
or equivalent products in North American, European and 
Japanese markets. U.S. EPA Tier 4 emissions standards  
(as well as EU Stage IIIB & Stage IV emissions regulations) 
provide a 90% reduction in emissions (NOx and particulate 
matter) compared to Tier 3 standards. Customers in each 
segment want the cost-saving benefits of more fuel-efficient 
and fuel-flexible products. Modular offerings within our 
product lines allow customization of equipment to provide 
the optimal blend of technology and emissions profile that 
helps customers achieve their climate-related goals. 
As an industry leader, we have a talented and experienced team 
that constantly innovates to improve machine emissions and 
safety. Caterpillar will continue to engage and partner with 
regulators, industry organizations, governments and 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) around the world to 
share that expertise, which supports advanced technology and 
informs decisions.
 Goal AchievedPRODUCING POWER WITH BYPRODUCT GAS 
Solar Turbines has 46 gas turbines in use with customers in 
China, allowing them to burn coke oven gas to produce 
electricity instead of releasing this gas into the atmosphere. 
This gas, called coke oven gas (COG), is a byproduct of the 
coking process in which coal is heated in the absence of air to 
drive off volatile compounds. COG is a high hydrogen and 
medium heating value waste gas containing significant dust 
and corrosive pollutants. The Solar customer, Liheng Steel, is 
one of the first companies in China to receive a Certificate of 
Avoided GHG Emissions from the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency Combined Heat and Power Partnership 
for its achievement in reducing carbon emissions with its 
combined heat and power (CHP) system.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   17   | YEARS OF SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION
Since our earliest days, Caterpillar has provided products and services that 
benefit our customers, continually improving the quality of the environment 
and communities where we live and work while helping build a better, more 
sustainable world. 
In the 1930s , Caterpillar track-type tractors were converted to run 
on alternative fuels such as butane and propane. This Caterpillar 
Seventy track-type tractor was equipped to burn butane in Hanford, 
California. In this same decade, Caterpillar converted gasoline 
engines to burn natural gas, and sold diesel engine conversion kits 
that allowed existing customers to “modernize” their gasoline-
powered Sixty tractors. 
You can say remanufacturing is part of our DNA. The 
Holt Manufacturing Company, one of our two 
predecessor companies, rebuilt and resold machines 
as early as 1910 . One of these machines is still 
owned by the original customer’s family today.
95 
19101906
1930
1955In 1906, Benjamin Holt tested his first gasoline-powered track-type 
tractor that eventually replaced inefficient, steam-powered track-type 
tractors. His invention was named “Caterpillar,” and it was the first  
step on a never-ending journey toward more efficient power sources  
for our machines.
In 1955 , the D9 became the first Cat® 
machine fitted with a turbocharged diesel 
engine. Turbocharging technology captures 
and reuses exhaust gases to increase 
power while reducing fuel consumption 
and emissions.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   18   | In 2019 , Caterpillar introduced the D6 XE, the world’s  
first elevated sprocket electric drive dozer, providing 
substantial fuel savings and efficiency alongside 
increased productivity.From 1994 to 1995 , Caterpillar ran the first two prototype 777C 
autonomous mining trucks (AMTs) at a Texas limestone quarry, 
where they successfully hauled more than 5,000 production 
loads over a 2.6-mile course, and demonstrated autonomous 
operations could improve safety.
1994
2019What began as a customer request for a low-cost repair option 
transformed into one of Caterpillar’s most dynamic divisions—
Cat Reman. In 1973 , the first Caterpillar remanufacturing plant 
began production in Bettendorf, Iowa.
1973
Before being donated to the Smithsonian Institution, Caterpillar’s 
first diesel engine prototype, “Old Betsy,” was restored and put 
through a rigorous series of emissions tests in 1973 . Thanks to a 
forward-thinking design, Old Betsy came very close to meeting 
1973 emissions standards 40 years after it was built.
YEARS OF SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION95 
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   19   | The Universal Remote 
Operator Station  
provides remote, non-line-of-sight control for safer operation.
Introduced a battery electric powered
zero-emissions 
underground loader .Now, more than ever, customers can count on Caterpillar to provide  
products and services to help them achieve their sustainability goals.SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATIONS TODAY
We are building on our history of innovation to drive value for our customers through our 
products and services. We partner with our customers to identify challenges, understand 
requirements and deliver solutions that help them be more successful. 
Progress Rail has introduced a zero-emissions 
battery-powered 
switcher locomotive .     a program for a  
hydrogen fuel cell system   
for data center power
      a program related to a flexible  
natural gas and hydrogen  
combined heat and power system.
Awarded US Department of Energy research funding for  
two three-year development projects: 
1.
2.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   20   | Learn more about how Caterpillar products are helping our customers 
build a better world at caterpillar.com/sustainability  An electric large  
mining truck trolley 
has demonstrated reduced GHG emissions. 
Enhanced safety, efficiency and productivity are among the  
benefits of mining 
autonomous solutions 
offered through Cat Command  for Hauling, Underground,  
Dozing and Drilling. The 3512 T4 DGB engine  
has been recognized with the EPA Clean Air Excellence Award for 
its ability to substitute up to 85% of diesel fuel with natural gas. 
This proven DGB solution is capable of operating with natural gas 
blends with up to 20% hydrogen which can significantly reduce 
methane emissions.
SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATIONS TODAY
NEW 2030 GOAL:
100%  of Caterpillar’s new products through 2030 will be 
more sustainable than the previous generation through 
collaborating with customers, reduced waste, 
improved design for rebuild/remanufacturing, 
lower emissions or improved efficiency.
Developed together with our dealer PON, the Z-line  
electric medium excavator 
offers a zero-emissions solution for construction customers.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   21   | Many considerations go into the responsible sourcing of 
minerals used in our products. Tin, tungsten, tantalum and 
gold (3TG), collectively known as “conflict minerals,” have 
been associated with human rights violations in the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining 
countries. With regard to the extraction and trade of conflict 
minerals, we will not knowingly provide support to, contribute 
to, assist with or facilitate armed conflict in the DRC. Our 
Conflict Minerals Position Statement contains clear 
expectations for our suppliers regarding their sourcing  
of these materials. We have established a process that 
identifies areas of risk on an ongoing basis, and corrective 
action plans to mitigate or remediate such risks relating to 
conflict minerals. A supplier’s failure to take corrective 
actions when required may lead to additional actions, up to 
and including the termination of our business relationship.
Caterpillar supports the Responsible Minerals Initiative  
(RMI) to help influence smelters’ engagement to support 
supply chain transparency and leverage industry 
collaboration toward greater business intelligence. Year  
over year, we strive for an increased supplier response rate, 
emphasizing 3TG priority suppliers. We leverage industry 
standards for benchmarking and continually explore 
efficiencies and cost improvements. Caterpillar also 
publicly discloses the results of our Reasonable Country  
of Origin process and any necessary due diligence in Form 
SD and Conflict Minerals Report as required by the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC). This report discloses 
metrics and results of inquiries we execute within our first-tier 
suppliers. In these reports, we describe our due diligence 
efforts, including risk mitigation, and process improvements 
we expect to implement in the following year.
Equipment powerful enough to move and mine the earth 
must be built with durable materials. Caterpillar sources from 
a global network of suppliers across broad categories and 
technologies for aftermarket and production parts. These 
purchases include a variety of unformed steel products, cut 
or formed to shape and machined in our facilities; steel and 
iron castings and forgings, machined to final specification; 
and finished components, made to Caterpillar specifications 
or supplier-developed specifications.
Supplier diversity is an increasing focus for our strategic 
procurement function. With a strong base of diverse suppliers 
already in place, we are dedicating more resources and 
developing a strategic approach to formalize a program that 
will work to identify diverse supplier opportunities and support 
their efforts to work with Caterpillar.Read our conflict minerals 
position and reporting 
Materials
Caterpillar is the world’s leading 
manufacturer of construction and mining 
equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, 
industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric 
locomotives. Caterpillar responsibly 
sources the raw materials used to build our 
products. And, we help keep those materials 
in circulation for as long as possible through 
remanufacturing and rebuild programs that 
reduce waste, extend equipment life, and 
save customers money.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   22   | Remanufacturing and rebuild options deliver multiple 
sustainability benefits and help Caterpillar contribute  
to the circular economy. Through these activities, we 
recycle millions of pounds of end-of-life iron annually. 
Because we are in the business of returning end-of-life 
components to same-as-when-new condition, we reduce 
waste and minimize the need for raw material, energy  
and water associated with producing new parts. Through 
remanufacturing, we make a significant contribution to 
sustainable development—extending the value of the 
energy and water consumed in a component’s original 
manufacture and keeping high-value nonrenewable 
resources in circulation for multiple life cycles. With  
the company’s enterprise strategy focused heavily on 
increasing services that offer superior customer value,  
we are in a position to help achieve enterprise goals by 
satisfying a steady customer demand for remanufactured 
products and components. Reducing waste through 
remanufacturing and rebuilding is good for the 
environment, customers and the enterprise.Remanufacturing
Increase remanufactured 
and rebuild sales by 20% 
from 2013 to 2020 REMANUFACTURING 2020 GOAL
89%
eligible end-of-life returns collected in 20207,  8
131 
million pounds of material collected in 2020  
through end-of-life returns7,  8
1%
Rebuild sales growth (2013-2020)
-12%
Remanufacturing sales growth (2013-2020)*For more than 45 years, Caterpillar’s 
remanufacturing and rebuild operations have 
provided customers with quality equipment 
that helps deliver lower owning and operating 
costs. Our engineering and manufacturing 
expertise, field population and dealer 
organization make it possible for us to offer 
remanufactured products and components 
through many of our brands and rebuild  
options through our dealers.
 NEW 2030 GOAL:
Increase sales and revenues  
from remanufacturing offerings  
by 25%  from 2018 to 2030.
* Our business changed substantially after this goal was set. Caterpillar exited  
the on-highway truck engine business, formerly a significant percentage of our  
Cat Reman and Dealer Rebuild activities. Then, in 2018, Caterpillar exited all  
but one of our external third-party reman of other manufacturers’ products. 
Additionally, the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted our top-line 
revenue. In 2021, a new division was established to grow our reman activities 
and the associated significant environmental benefits.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   23   | REMANUFACTURING ACROSS OUR BRANDS
Caterpillar machines and components are built to last. They 
are designed to withstand heavy-duty operating conditions 
and to be restored and used for multiple life cycles. Designing 
products and components to be used throughout multiple 
service life cycles is the essence of our remanufacturing 
approach, which takes many different forms across our brands. 
Cat Reman
The Cat Reman process returns component products at the 
end of their initial serviceable lives to same-as-when-new 
condition. Engineers use design guidelines to build key 
products with remanufacturing in mind, ensuring they are 
highly durable, even under heavy-use conditions. When a 
component reaches the end of its initial serviceable life, 
dealers return the used component, referred to as core, to 
Caterpillar, where it is cleaned, inspected, salvaged and 
remanufactured to original factory specifications, including  
any relevant engineering updates. Cat Reman uses state-  
of-the-art salvage techniques, strict reuse guidelines, and 
advanced remanufacturing processes and quality controls  
to ensure reman products provide same-as-when-new 
performance, coupled with a same-as-new warranty. We 
charge a deposit along with the purchase of each Cat Reman 
product, which gives customers an incentive to return their 
used components (cores) so that we can continue to give 
materials new life. Remanufacturing
Solar Turbines 
Solar Turbines provides turbine and compressor 
overhauls, as well as remanufactured service parts.  
To minimize customer downtime, Solar maintains  
an extensive fleet of exchange engines and parts.  
Each exchange comes with full return-to-original 
performance specifications and implements the 
latest design improvements. Solar continues to  
expand our remanufacturing capabilities and invest  
in condition-based engineering to improve reman 
content and extend overhaul cycles while ensuring 
quality at every step. Solar has invested in several 
facilities around the world to minimize transportation 
and provide a faster customer response.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   24   | Progress Rail 
Progress Rail extends the use of existing locomotives by 
providing rebuild, overhaul and repower options. These 
modernization programs upgrade electrical and mechanical 
systems and other components to extend locomotives’ life by 
20 years or more with appropriate maintenance. Many 
repower upgrades meet or exceed current emissions 
standards in certain regions—depending upon the customer 
and their needs—while improving reliability and maximizing 
fuel economy. We also offer reconditioning or repair services 
for freight cars and a wide range of components, ensuring 
value-added returns are available for customers, reducing 
annual maintenance cost. When locomotives and railcars 
finally reach the end of their usable lives, they can be recycled 
for other uses through Progress Rail’s scrap management 
services. We also grade recycled rail—or “relay rail”—and 
other track material to meticulous industry standards. Remanufacturing
Caterpillar Energy Solutions 
X-Change is a parts replacement program for medium  
and large MWM-branded engines. The program provides 
overhauled engines, cylinder heads and other engine 
components on short notice and can be an economical 
alternative to on-site maintenance. Beyond affordability,  
our customers benefit from the high quality of replaced 
components and less downtime through parts on demand. 
Caterpillar Defense
During disaster response or aid delivery, amid surge or rapid 
deployment, in wartime or peacetime, Caterpillar Defense 
responds to each operation’s needs, including solutions that 
extend the life cycle of products. Through the military Service 
Life Extension Program, Cat dealers give machines a complete 
second life cycle at a fraction of new replacement cost. We also 
have qualified technicians who conduct repairs in-theater on 
military bases and customize replacement parts to local needs. 
Cat® Certified Rebuild
In the same spirit as Cat Reman, Cat Certified Rebuild programs 
increase the lifespan of equipment by providing customers with 
product updates at a fraction of the cost of buying a new 
machine, enabling us to extend the life of materials. 
A complete Cat Certified Rebuild includes more than 350 tests 
and inspections, automatic replacement or reconditioning  
of approximately 7,000 parts and a like-new machine 
warranty. Trained dealer service professionals perform 
rebuild work using genuine equipment and parts while 
incorporating the latest engineering updates. Caterpillar 
provides information, data, training, and service tools to 
help dealers decide which parts to reuse to achieve the 
expected longevity of rebuilt components. Since 1985, 
Caterpillar and our dealers have rebuilt more than 32,000 
machines, powertrains and components. 
BEFORE AFTER
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   25   | The people of Caterpillar include over 97,000 globally diverse employees in 66 countries and  
150 locations around the world. We collaborate in 76 languages and, together, develop solutions  
that help our customers build a better world, innovate new technologies and give back to our 
communities. Our Values in Action define what we stand for and how we conduct ourselves with our 
customers, partners, and one another. Our employees do work that matters. In turn, Caterpillar 
provides a positive work environment by continually strengthening our safety culture, supporting all 
aspects of health, and offering challenging and meaningful work. We attract, hire and develop 
people with diverse perspectives and strive for an inclusive culture where everyone can do their 
best work. We believe this is fundamental to our company’s success.
PEOPLE
OUR GLOBAL RESPONSE TO THE PANDEMIC 
Protecting the health of our employees is ingrained in 
Caterpillar’s culture at every level. In 2020, our safety-first 
culture led the Executive Office’s important early 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic by convening a 
global, enterprise-level task force of business, EHS, 
medical, HR, legal and communications leaders. The 
task force quickly responded with expert guidance, 
working across the enterprise with our business leaders 
to implement enhanced safety measures, standard 
protocols, and important benefits like enhanced paid 
leave for quarantines and childcare for our essential 
work force. They also ensured that the needs of our 
employees who were working remotely were  
addressed through a variety of measures. Expanded offerings for tele-health services and increased 
programming for mental wellness and well-being were 
provided to all employees. Our Employee Assistance 
Program (EAP) was expanded globally to provide support 
for a variety of personal and health concerns, including 
emotional health, stress and managing change. Supervisors 
and managers were also provided support adjusting to 
leading virtual teams, with training materials, seminars and 
on-demand learning. 
Supervisors, managers and leaders in every region of the 
world ensured frequent communication with employees 
to help facilitate resiliency throughout the year. In return, 
our employees responded with focus on driving business 
results. In addition, many also helped to fight the spread 
of COVID in the communities where they live and work 
through donations to local families and volunteer work in 
supporting local efforts.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   26   | The health and safety of our employees is an important 
focus at Caterpillar, and we strive to continuously reduce 
injuries. Safety is forefront in our strategic goals and metrics, 
with visible commitment and support by leadership. In 
addition to metrics, we believe the best way to drive a culture 
of safety excellence is to create an environment where our 
team is accountable for their own safety, as well as the 
safety of those around them. We relentlessly strive to ensure 
our workforce returns home safely every day. Employee Health & Safety
Reduce recordable workplace  
injury rate to 0.60 by 2020 
FATALITIES: 0 EMPLOYEES  |  2 CONTRACTORSRECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY (RIF)
Recordable injuries per 200,000 hours worked
2020 2020 2019 2018 2017 20036.22
0.49 0.53 0.43 0.42GOAL
0.60SAFETY 2020 GOALS
NEW 2030 GOAL:
We aspire to prevent 
all injuries and will 
further our industry-
leading safety results 
by reducing RIF by 
50%  from 2018  
to 2030.Reduce lost-time injury case  
rate to 0.15 by 2020
2020 2020 2019 2018 2017 20032.97
0.17 0.16 0.15 0.20GOAL
0.15LOST-TIME CASE FREQUENCY RATE (LTCFR)
Worker-related injuries resulting in lost time  
per 200,000 hours workedFocusing on Safety From Day One
Our production employees are an essential part of the 
safety process and often suggest innovative solutions  
to enhance safety in the workplace. Some recent efforts 
focused on newly hired employees. 
Employees within our Building Construction Products 
Division noticed that those with less than one year of 
experience accounted for over half of near misses and 
injuries. Based on this insight, the employee-led team 
identified workstations that were best suited for new hires 
according to the complexity and precision needed to 
complete the task and assigned appropriate work based 
on experience level. The team also improved their 
on-the-job training to better educate new hires on safety 
and preventative measures to avoid injuries. Experienced 
employees were assigned as dedicated trainers to each 
new hire to support their learning on the shop floor. This 
employee-focused program led to a reduction in near 
misses, turnover rates and even scrap costs.
Similarly, our Product Support & Logistics Division has 
implemented a safety program, called the Guardian 
Program, to partner new employees with an experienced 
team member—or Guardian—during their first six 
months for an enhanced safety-focused onboarding. 
Through the pairing, Guardians accrue valuable 
leadership experience as a means of strengthening their 
professional development, and new employees benefit 
from the individualized support a Guardian partnership 
provides. This one-on-one relationship significantly 
reduces the new employee’s learning curve, offers 
enhanced support to ensure understanding of safe 
behaviors in the workplace, and supports inclusion by 
acquainting new employees with company culture  
and department colleagues. 
Through year-end 2020, 475 Guardians globally have 
trained for the program, which has reduced employee 
safety incidents in first-year employees.
 Goal Achieved
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   27   | People
CREATING ACCOUNTABILITY FOR EVERYONE
We track enterprise metrics and targets as well as individual 
business unit goals. Common enterprise targets create 
structure and accountability, while business unit strategies 
focused on safety create opportunities for innovation. We drive 
clear accountability and have an Environment, Health and 
Safety (EHS) management system, as described on page 1 3, 
that establishes expectations worldwide. From day one, we 
provide every new hire the knowledge they need to perform 
their job safely, and leaders regularly receive training on their 
role in safety compliance and setting an example for our strong 
safety culture. These actions help us manage risk while creating 
a culture focused on worker health and safety.
OUR PROGRESS REPORT CARD
In 2020, thanks to our relentless focus on safety, we delivered 
our best recordable injury frequency (RIF) performance on 
record, improving on our previous record set in 2019. We have 
reduced our RIF rate by 93% from our 2003 base year and by 
2% from 2019 to 2020. Our lost-time case frequency rate has 
improved by 93% from our 2003 base year but did increase 
slightly between 2019 and 2020. We attribute this change 
primarily to the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
While we are proud of our progress, we are also very 
saddened that two contractors suffered fatal workplace 
injuries at our facilities in 2020. These incidents highlight that 
safety must always remain the number one focus of all 
workers, and it further strengthens our safety resolve.
SETTING THE BAR HIGHER
In this report, we announce our new goal to further reduce  
RIF by an additional 50% from 2018 to 2030, and continue to  
be a safety leader in our industry. To achieve this goal, we  
will focus our efforts on reducing the most severe and frequent 
injuries. Maintaining lasting risk reduction will require even 
further maturity of our safety culture. Our plan includes 
fostering a culture of caring by involving employees in 
developing solutions, listening to their concerns, and ensuring 
they feel comfortable talking to their peers about unsafe 
behaviors. Continuing to provide safety learning opportunities 
for our leaders, safety professionals and employees will 
enhance our efforts. We know the journey ahead will be 
challenging but vitally important as we continue to prioritize the 
safety of our employees and their families.
CUSTOMER SAFETY
Caterpillar’s commitment to safety goes beyond our 
employees and facilities. Caterpillar Safety Services’ 
products, solutions and expertise support companies  
of all sizes in many industries, helping achieve and sustain 
safety excellence. Caterpillar Safety Services supports 
dealers, suppliers and customers using cultural assessment 
tools, continuous improvement processes, technology that 
identifies and mitigates risk, and a wealth of industry-specific 
safety resources.
In 2020, we delivered 
our best Recordable 
Injury Frequency (RIF) 
safety performance  
on record, while 
providing essential 
products and services.NEW 2030 GOAL:
Provide leadership in the safety  
of people who work in, on and  
around our products.Caterpillar Safety Services provides 
safety development offerings  
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   28   | We are focused on attracting talented individuals from the 
widest talent pool possible. When employees join Caterpillar, 
whether they are early career or experienced hires, they 
begin learning about our company values, culture and code 
of conduct on day one through a robust orientation program. 
We are intentional in providing opportunities to strengthen 
employees’ skills and grow their capabilities throughout their 
career. At the high school level, we provide students with 
hands-on manufacturing experience to help develop skills 
and inspire them to pursue a career in manufacturing. In 
Bangalore, India, for example, we host students and teach 
them how STEM skills can be applied through virtual and 
physical demonstrations.
For early career talent, we offer internships, co-ops and career 
development programs for engineering, marketing and 
manufacturing. In 2020, we maintained our commitments to 
our university partners and delivered a virtual intern program. 
The majority of our interns worked remotely in areas such  
as engineering design, simulation, digital, logistics and 
marketing. Leaders and mentors helped ensure that interns 
received meaningful work experiences based on their specific 
skills, career interests and goals. 
We are committed to helping people reach their full potential 
and strengthen technical, professional and leadership skills 
at every level throughout their career. We offer high-impact 
learning opportunities that include skill-based programs, 
experiential learning, formal classroom training, mentoring 
and on-the job collaboration, as well as tuition assistance at 
colleges and universities. We continued to offer these 
learning opportunities during the pandemic and, for 
example, moved 85% of classroom learning in engineering 
to a virtual format. 
Through ongoing talent reviews and robust succession 
planning, we evaluate capability and identify the talent 
pools we need to succeed now and in the future.We strive to continually attract, develop, engage and 
retain a high-performing and diverse global team.Talent Development & TrainingKEY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
Our executives continued to coach rising  
talent.  By leveraging remote, live-learning  
as the pandemic unfolded, they provided  
real-time insights to mid- to senior-level Caterpillar 
leaders in our Leadership Development 300 and 
Leadership Development 400 by-invitation programs. 
These leaders learned firsthand how to tackle critical 
business challenges with agility, while building 
capabilities around a variety of topics including 
strategic thinking and building high-performing teams.Our Engineering Rotational Development 
Program  allows early-career engineers 
opportunities to work in research and 
development, new product introduction 
and continuous improvement over 12 to 18 
months, rotating between assignments 
and gaining foundational training, as well 
as coaching, mentoring, and professional 
development opportunities to grow both 
technical and leadership skills.  
In 2020, more than 1,600 employees across 
the globe completed our fully virtual 
Marketing Orientation Program  to gain a 
comprehensive understanding of our 
business strategy, products and services, 
and the value of our dealer network.  Employees across the globe  participated in 
our Lean Fundamentals, Problem Solving 
and Leadership programs to increase Lean 
capabilities, and drive operational 
excellence throughout our company.Skills-based programs  to upskill our 
manufacturing employees are developed 
locally and tailored to the specific needs  
 of the business. For example, new welders 
in our Decatur, Illinois, factory go through  
a six-week program focused on safety, 
quality and welding techniques.
Since its launch in 2019, an 18-month  
Culture of Sales program  has enabled more 
than 600 field-facing, customer-focused 
teams to solve business challenges, share 
best practices and heighten acumen of core 
sales competencies.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   29   | Our people are the heartbeat behind the success of our products and services. Our focus on health and  
well-being represents Caterpillar’s commitment to building and sustaining a high-performing team by giving 
employees and their families the incentives, programs and social support needed to thrive.
We believe health is achieved by focusing on all aspects 
of well-being, including emotional, financial and physical 
health. We call this “Total Health,” and engage our 
employees through our Total Health Champions network. 
Total Health Champions are employee volunteers who 
passionately believe in the value of well-being. They 
function at a local level to help educate employees about 
the importance of good health and coordinate meaningful 
programs and events. They also motivate coworkers to 
learn about their unique health needs, take action, and 
effectively use the benefits available to them. 
Our commitment to health and well-being not only includes 
our employees, but also their families. We offer a variety of 
benefits to both our full- and part-time global workforce 
that extends to employees’ spouses, same-sex domestic 
partners and dependents. Some of these benefits include:
 ĉHealthcare coverage including medical, prescription 
drug, dental, vision and preventative exams and testing 
 ĉParental and adoption leave and infertility benefits
 ĉLife and disability insurance 
 ĉRetirement savings plans
 ĉTime-off benefits, including vacation, holiday and paid 
volunteer time 
 ĉAdditional voluntary benefits, such as accident 
insurance, legal services and identify theft 
Throughout the pandemic, our Mental 
Health First Responder program 
empowered employees to support one 
another’s mental health at work and our 
“Building Resilience” campaign assisted 
employees adapting to changes in their 
lives at home and work.Health & Well-Being
We provided new digital and mobile 
Employee Assistance Program 
(EAP) services and added 100% 
coverage on telehealth services  
during challenging times.   2020 EXPANDED WELL-BEING OFFERINGS
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   30   | At Caterpillar, we value diverse perspectives and strive to ensure our global team reflects the many communities 
and customers we serve around the world.Diversity & Inclusion
HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2020 
 ĉWe remain focused on increasing female representation. 
We are prioritizing roles in technical fields such as 
logistics, procurement, digital and information technology. 
In India, we tailored recruiting campaigns and on-site 
benefits to attract female employees. In China, we 
continue to invest in programs that encourage women to 
pursue engineering, management and leadership roles.
 ĉA growing number of employees participate in our  
14 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which connect 
employees around an interest or background and 
promote personal and professional development. ERGs 
drive collaboration across cultures, genders and abilities 
and are key to Caterpillar’s inclusive environment.Caterpillar is committed to creating a workplace where everyone 
can succeed. We are making strides in hiring diverse talent and 
creating programs that foster an inclusive environment and fuel 
innovation. We want our employees to feel that they belong, are 
heard, valued and appreciated. We are accelerating our efforts 
to improve diversity at every level of our business to create 
positive and sustainable progress.Read our first Diversity and 
Inclusion Report   
HUMAN RIGHTS
Our Human Rights Policy complements Our 
Values In Action, and is a commitment that we 
do not condone and strive to eliminate all forms 
of forced labor, child labor, and discrimination 
in the workplace; work to establish safe and 
healthy working conditions; value diversity as a 
foundational key to the success of our business 
strategy; seek to compensate our employees 
fairly and competitively where they work; and, 
respect principles of freedom of association 
and the right to collective bargaining. We are 
committed to respecting fundamental human 
rights principles throughout our global operations.  ĉIn 2020, Caterpillar joined a coalition of 36 major 
corporations committed to upskilling, hiring and promoting 
one million Black Americans over the next 10 years into 
family-sustaining jobs with opportunities for advancement. 
The coalition formed OneTen, an organization whose goal is 
to make meaningful, measureable and lasting impact on 
racial and economic justice.
As we look forward, we continue to broaden our impact. 
Different voices and perspectives help us continue to 
innovate to meet our customers’ evolving needs. 
     Read our Human Rights Policy  
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   31   | EMPLOYEE LISTENING 
Our people are critical to delivering solutions for our 
customers and driving business growth. We are committed 
to giving them a direct voice in providing feedback on what 
allows them to perform at their best. We make it a priority  
to listen and address employee feedback on the work 
experience and alignment to business goals. 
One way we gather feedback is through the Employee 
Insights Survey. The survey measures employees’ 
perspectives on the execution of our business strategy  
from their position in the business, as well as how engaged 
they feel in their experience working at Caterpillar. 
All employees can participate in the confidential survey 
and provide feedback and perspectives. In 2020, 
Caterpillar employees’ feedback indicated that providing 
challenging and meaningful work is our greatest strength. 
Last year, the word “challenging” took on new meaning 
with teams adapting to a rapidly changing environment 
while remaining focused on delivering our enterprise 
strategy. Survey results indicated strong leadership 
support was a key factor in our success.People
2020 ANNUAL EMPLOYEE 
INSIGHTS SURVEY
81%  response rate 
Year-over-year favorability results 
improved on every index,  and 
scores were above benchmark on 
the majority of survey items. 
Inclusion Index 
Scores have  increased   
for the past 3 years.
We care about the employee experience and work hard to create an environment where each employee can do 
their best work. We continually listen to employee feedback and take action to ensure all Caterpillar employees 
feel part of one successful global organization and understand our commitment to help them succeed. Employee Experience
Employees say our greatest strength is providing  
challenging and 
meaningful work.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   32   | CATERPILLAR FOUNDATION
The Caterpillar Foundation is the philanthropic arm of 
Caterpillar Inc. and has been on a mission to improve lives 
since its founding in 1952. Today the Foundation is 
focused on building resilient communities that thrive in a 
rapidly changing  world. Just as our company and 
customers work to build infrastructure, the Caterpillar 
Foundation helps build stronger individuals, communities 
and economies around the world. The Foundation invests 
in the skills people need to join the modern workforce, and 
the natural and vital infrastructure they rely upon. 
Learn more about the Caterpillar Foundation's work and impact  Empowering the workforce of the 21st century–
Investing in skills development and STEM (science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics) to equip 
people with the skills required for tomorrow’s economy, 
putting them on a path to prosperity. Skills-based 
education leads to better jobs, and better jobs lead  
to better futures. 
Building resilient communities to address critical 
environmental challenges , support natural 
infrastructure development and provide access to  
basic services, such as water resource management 
and energy.
Giving back in our communities– Caterpillar’s global  
team helps build a better world using their passions, 
time and talents to give back, maximizing impact 
through the Foundation’s disaster and matching  
gifts programs, United Way and volunteer efforts. 
Based on investments made in 2020, and together with the 
help of the Foundation’s partners:
Over 512,000 acres  will  
be restored through reforestation, 
ecosystem restoration and  
more sustainable land use  
management practices.3 million individuals  
will have better access to 
industry-aligned STEM 
education programs. 
9,700 individuals   
are projected to enter the 
workforce after successful 
completion of technical  
and vocational  
education programs.1,800 water system 
interventions  are 
projected to be installed  
to connect communities  
with reliable water sources. $810 million  
invested in global communities since 1952.Nearly
Philanthropy
Our success contributes to the social stability 
of regions around the world. Caterpillar and our 
customers support economic growth in 
developed and developing countries, where 
aging networks need improvement, and 
emerging regions require new infrastructure. 
Our products help ensure that investments in transportation, 
energy, telecommunications and waste and water infrastructure 
produce  maximum benefits. By employing more than 100,000 
people worldwide—and indirectly supporting countless other 
jobs—we help provide opportunities that grow economies in 
countries around the world.
THE FOUNDATION’S FOCUS AREAS INCLUDE
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   33   | THE FOUNDATION’S RESPONSE TO COVID-19
COVID-19 has affected every community that Caterpillar and 
the Caterpillar Foundation serve. Given its mission to build 
thriving communities, the Foundation increased its support 
for those in need during the initial stages of the pandemic. 
Early in 2020, the Foundation announced a $250,000 
donation to the China Women’s Development Foundation 
through Give2Asia to provide health care facilities with 
critical medical protective materials in China’s Hubei 
province, where the outbreak initially occurred. 
In total, the Caterpillar Foundation committed $10 million  
to support global COVID-19 relief efforts, focused on  
the world’s most pressing needs by partnering with 
organizations. This commitment included a Foundation  
2:1 match on eligible U.S. employee and retiree donations. 
The Foundation also collaborated with Caterpillar facilities 
around the world to donate to local charities responding 
to COVID-19 related health, housing, food and other basic 
needs in the communities our employees call home. DISASTER RELIEF 
The Caterpillar Foundation is a member of the American Red 
Cross (ARC) Annual Disaster Giving Program. This program 
provides a funding base that allows the ARC to immediately 
provide relief to those impacted by disasters. This model 
ensures that the ARC has funds to prepare for disasters 
before they occur. Philanthropy
The Foundation’s support enabled the ARC to respond to 
disasters such as devastating bushfires in Australia, the 
deadly explosion in Lebanon and widespread flooding in 
Sudan. In addition to supporting relief efforts through its 
partnership with the ARC, the Foundation made a  
$250,000 donation to the Australian Red Cross. The Caterpillar Foundation committed 
$10 million  
to global COVID-19 efforts, positively  
impacting 523 nonprofits in more  
than 16 countries.The Caterpillar Foundation invested  
$2 million   
in the American Red Cross Annual  
Disaster Giving Program.
Partners included:
 ĉUnited Nations Foundation
 ĉKing Baudouin Foundation United States
 ĉThe Global FoodBanking Network 
 ĉFeeding America
 ĉBoys & Girls Clubs of America
 ĉIllinois COVID-19 Response Fund
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   34   | The Caterpillar Foundation’s investments 
align with several of the UN SDGs. The 
Caterpillar Foundation works to build 
resilient communities in the places where 
we live and work and where there is need. SOCIAL JUSTICE
Caterpillar supports the fight against racism and injustice.  
To help address structural inequities in the United States, 
and in line with its mission, the Foundation announced a  
$1 million donation split equally between two organizations. 
The Equal Justice Initiative  is committed to ending mass 
incarceration and excessive punishment—challenging racial 
and economic injustice, and protecting fundamental human 
rights for the most vulnerable in our society. 
The NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund , Inc.   
seeks structural changes to expand democracy, eliminate 
disparities and achieve racial justice in a society where the 
promise of equity for all Americans is fulfilled. The Foundation 
will continue investing in community programs that fight for 
equal rights and address the destructive effects of racism. Philanthropy
CATERPILLAR FOUNDATION AND  
THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS (UN SDGS) UN SDGS MOST CLOSELY ALIGNED TO THE FOUNDATION
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   35   | ESG Data
BASELINE  
20062017 2018 2019 2020GOAL  
2020PERSPECTIVE
PEOPLE DATA
Total number of employees N/A 98,400 104,000 102,300 97,300 N/A
Number of employees outside U.S. N/A 56,200 59,400 58,700 57,000 N/A
Women in enterprise N/A 20% 20% 20% 20%29%  
(2022)Caterpillar remains committed to increasing female 
representation throughout the company and invests in 
programs to strengthen our gender-inclusive culture. We 
have set an aspirational goal of 29% women in the 
enterprise and 25% women in leadership by 2022. Women in leadership N/A 19% 19% 20% 20%25%  
(2022)
Collective bargaining
% of employees covered N/A 41% 40% 41% 40% N/AWe respect the right of our employees to form, join or not 
join any lawful organization of their choice without fear of 
reprisal, interference, intimidation or harassment. We 
believe it is important for individuals to exercise that right 
with the benefit of available information
SAFETY
Recordable injury frequency/A/ 
Recordable injuries per 200,000 hours 
worked6.22 
(2003)0.49 0.53 0.43 0.42 0.60We strive for all team members to return home safely, every 
day. In 2020, thanks to our relentless focus on safety, we 
delivered our best recordable injury frequency (RIF) 
performance on record, improving on our previous record set 
in 2019. We have reduced our RIF rate by 93% from our 2003 
base year, and by 2% from 2019 to 2020. 
Lost-time case frequency rate/A/ 
Worker-related injuries resulting in lost 
time per 200,000 hours worked2.97 
(2003)0.17 0.16 0.15 0.20 0.15Our lost-time case frequency rate has improved by 93% 
from our 2003 base year, but did increase slightly between 
2019 and 2020. We attribute this change primarily to the 
challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Employee fatalities N/A 0 1 0 0 N/AWhile we are proud of our progress, we are also very 
saddened that two contractors suffered fatal workplace 
injuries at our facilities in 2020. These incidents highlight 
that safety must always remain the number one focus of all 
workers, and it further strengthens our safety resolve.Contractor fatalities N/A 0 1 1 2 N/A
N/A = Not Applicable   
/A/ Data assured by ERM CVS. Please see our data assurance statement .
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   36   | ESG Data
EMISSIONS–OPERATIONS
Absolute GHG emissions/A/ 
million metric tons CO2e2.990 2.119 2.207 1.774 1.461 N/AOur absolute GHG emissions decreased 51% from  
2006 to 2020.
Scope 1 direct emissions/A/ 
million metric tonsN/A 0.863 0.927 0.905 0.694 N/A
Scope 2 market-based indirect  
emissions from purchased electricity,  
heat or steam/A/  
million metric tonsN/A 1.256 1.280 0.869 0.767 N/A
Scope 2 location-based/A/,2 
million metric tonsN/A 1.291 1.322 0.926 0.827 N/A
GHG intensity/A/,1  
absolute metric tons of CO2e/million 
dollars of sales and revenues72.1 46.4 40.4 33.0 35.0 36.0In 2020, we reduced our GHG emissions intensity by 51% 
from our 2006 baseline, achieving our 2020 goal.
WASTE–OPERATIONS
Total waste  
metric tons574,000 599,000 635,000 587,000 554,000 N/AOur generation of total absolute by-product materials decreased 
by 3% from 2006 to 2020 and by 6% from 2019 to 2020.
Waste intensity  
absolute metrics tons of by-product materials/
million dollars of sales and revenues13.8 13.2 11.6 10.9 13.3 6.9 In 2020, we reduced our waste intensity by 4% from our 
2006 baseline. Also, we are pleased to see the percent of 
our waste recycled continue to increase year-over-year. Waste recycled  
%84.1 83.5 86.8 87.1 91.5 N/ABASELINE  
20062017 2018 2019 2020GOAL  
2020PERSPECTIVE
ENERGY–OPERATIONS
Total energy use/A/,3 
gigajoules28,720,000 23,690,000 25,160,000 23,950,000 19,340,000 N/AWe remain focused on improving energy efficiency  
and reducing energy consumption. Total electricity/A/ 
million MWhN/A 2.45 2.55 2.38 2.09 N/A
Grid electricity  
%N/A N/A N/A 83.8 87.3 N/AIn 2019, Caterpillar began reporting grid electricity data 
based on SASB recommendations. Data for years prior is 
not available.
Renewable energy5 
%N/A 16.9 17.4 21.2 21.0 20.0In 2020, 33% of our electrical energy was obtained from 
renewable or alternative sources, exceeding our 2020 goal. Alternative energy6  
%N/A 14.3 15.1 14.3 12.0 20.0
Energy intensity/A/,3  
absolute gigajoules energy use/million 
dollars of sales and revenue692 521 461 445 463 346In 2020, we reduced our energy intensity by 33% from  
our 2006 baseline.
WATER–OPERATIONS
Total water/A/  
billion gallons5.91 4.04 3.85 3.74 3.38 N/A
In 2020, we reduced our absolute water consumption  
by 43% from our baseline year of 2006 and nearly  
10% from 2019 to 2020.Noncontact cooling water/A/ 
billion gallons2.74 1.40 1.26 1.31 1.19 N/A
Total Water Consumption  
by Source9
Noncontact cooling water/A/N/A 34.7% 32.8% 35.2% 35.2% N/A
Municipal water/A/N/A 28.7% 30.6% 30.8% 29.6% N/A
Surface water/A/N/A 16.8% 18.3% 18.0% 20.4% N/A
Other water/A/N/A 0.2% 0.4% 0.7% 0.6% N/A
Groundwater/A/N/A 19.5% 17.9% 15.4% 14.2% N/A
Water consumption intensity/A/,10 
absolute thousand gallons of water/
million dollars of sales and revenue76.3 58.1 47.3 45.0 52.4 38.2Through 2020, we have reduced water consumption 
intensity at our facilities by a total of 31% from our baseline 
year of 2006.
N/A = Not Applicable   
/A/ Data assured by ERM CVS. Please see our data assurance statement . 
Access endnotes  providing additional details regarding the data presented.
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   37   | ESG Data
BASELINE  
20062017 2018 2019 2020GOAL  
2020PERSPECTIVE
PRODUCTS
Reported sales and revenue11 
derived from products, services and solutions 
that demonstrate an improved sustainability 
benefit over prior offeringsN/A 21% 22% 27% 30% N/ACaterpillar has a long history of and a strong process for 
innovation in the research and development of products 
and solutions.
Fleet hours  
increase in fleet hours managed by Job Site 
Solutions since 2013N/A 124% 280% 510% 769% 100% Caterpillar Job Site Solutions (JSS) helps customers realize 
savings through reduced operator and repair needs, as well 
as decreased fuel use and associated emissions. Demand 
from our customers continues to grow for solutions provided 
by our JSS team working together with our Cat® dealers.Service agreements  
increase in machines covered by service 
agreements with Job Site Solutions  
since 2013N/A 151% 321% 501% 575% N/A
STRATEGIC PROCUREMENT 
Supplier Code of Conduct  
self-assessmentsN/A 39% 39% 67% 94% 95%Since 2016, Caterpillar has proactively surveyed our priority 
supply base to confirm alignment to Caterpillar’s published 
Supplier Code of Conduct. Caterpillar uses assessment 
response data to address supply chain risk through a 
collaborative approach with responding suppliers. The  
2020 target reflects continued focus on this initiative.
REMANUFACTURING
Growth in remanufacturing7 
% sales growth since 2013N/A 2% 7% 3% -12%
20%
Our remanufacturing and rebuild operations provide customers 
with immediate cost savings, help extend product life cycles 
and use materials more efficiently. We seek to continue to 
grow these activities.Growth in rebuild7 
% sales growth since 2013N/A 14% 17% 14% 1%
Product take-back by weight7, 8 
millions of pounds of end-of-life  
material receivedN/A 130 155 153 131 N/A
Product take-back by percentage7, 8 
% of actual end-of-life returns/eligible returnsN/A 92% 92% 91% 89% N/A
SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION
Buildings designed in accordance  
with the U.S. Green Building Council’s 
LEED BD+C (Building Design and 
Construction) certification process  
or comparable criteria
%N/A 100% 100% 100% N/A*100%Facilities designed to the LEED criteria are more 
energy- and resource-efficient than traditional construction. 
PHILANTHROPY 
Community investments  
in millionsN/A $33 $27 $28.6 $37.9 N/ASince 1952, the Caterpillar Foundation has contributed nearly 
$810 million to help make sustainable progress possible 
around the world by building resilient communities that 
thrive in a rapidly changing world.
People impacted (cumulative)  
in millionsN/A 46.5 48.1 50.1 51.2 50.0In 2013, the Caterpillar Foundation set out to place 50 million 
people on the path to prosperity by 2020. Together with our 
nonprofit partners, we are proud of the impact we’ve had on 
individuals and in communities around the world.
Matching gifts12 
in millionsN/A $6.0 $4.1 $3.5 $9.8 N/AThe Caterpillar Foundation is proud to match our  
U.S. employees, retirees and board of directors’ 
contributions to eligible organizations.
United Way13 
in millionsN/A $11.4 $11.8 $12.2 $12.3 N/ACaterpillar has supported the United Way for more than 60 
years through our annual campaign. The Foundation matches 
employee and retiree gifts during the campaign, amplifying 
our impact on the communities where we live and work.
N/A = Not Applicable   
/A/ Data assured by ERM CVS. Please see our data assurance statement . 
Access endnotes  providing additional details regarding the data presented.
* Caterpillar did not complete any construction in 2020; thus “N/A” is displayed
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   38   | SASB INDEX
TOPIC SASB CODE METRIC UNIT OF MEASURE RESPONSE/COMMENT
Accounting MetricsRT-IG-000.A Number of units produced by product category NumberSales data is provided in Caterpillar's annual 
report to shareholders on Form 10-K. 
RT-IG-000.B Number of employees Number 97,300
Energy Management RT-IG-130a.1(1) total energy consumed Gigajoules (GJ) Total energy consumed in GJ for 2020 is 19,340,000.
(2) percentage grid electricity % 87.3%
(3) percentage renewable % 21%
Employee Health  
and SafetyRT-IG-320a.1(1) total recordable incident rate (TRIR) Rate 0.4214
(2) fatality rate Number 0 employees, 2 contractors
(3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) RateCaterpillar emphasizes the importance of 
reviewing all work-related environmental, health 
and safety incidents, including near misses. Near 
misses are communicated and managed locally. 
Fuel Economy & 
Emissions in 
Use-PhaseRT-IG-410a.1Sales-weighted fleet fuel efficiency for 
medium- and heavy-duty vehiclesGallons per  
1,000 ton-milesNot applicable to Caterpillar.
RT-IG-410a.2Sales-weighted fuel efficiency for  
non-road equipmentGallons per hourWe continue to invest in research and development 
aimed at products that generate fewer direct 
emissions. Read more about our focus on energy, 
fuel economy and emissions . Given the diversity of 
our products and applications in which our products 
are used, as well as the lack of industry standards 
to estimate on a per unit of work basis, Caterpillar 
does not calculate sales-weighted fuel efficiency 
or emissions in this manner.RT-IG-410a.3Sales-weighted fuel efficiency for  
stationary generatorsWatts per hour
RT-IG-410a.4Sales-weighted emissions of:  
(1) nitrogen oxides (NOx) and  
(2) particulate matter (PM) for:  
(a) marine diesel engines, (b) locomotive diesel 
engines, (c) on-road medium- and heavy-duty 
engines, and (d) other non-road diesel enginesGrams per kilowatt-hour
Materials Sourcing RT-IG-440a.1Description of the management of risks associated 
with the use of critical materialsN/ACaterpillar responsibly sources the raw materials 
used to build our products. Please see the 
materials  section of this report. 
Remanufacturing 
Design & ServicesRT-IG-440b.1Revenue from remanufactured products and 
remanufacturing servicesReporting currencyOur remanufacturing and rebuild sales and 
revenues have grown -12% and 1%, respectively, 
since 2013.7 
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   39   |  
Independent  Assurance Statement to Caterpillar Inc. 
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Caterpillar Inc. (Caterpillar) to provide limited 
assurance in relation to specified 2020  data in the Caterpillar 2020 Sustainability Report as set out below.   
 
 
Engagement s ummar y 
Scope of our 
engagement  Whether the Caterpillar 2020 data for the following indicators are fairly presented, in all material 
respects, with the reporting criteria:  
Environmental Data  
Absolute and intensity*  
• Scope 1 GHG emissions [million metric 
tons CO2e and million metric tons 
CO2e/million dollars of sales and revenues] 
• Scope 2 GHG emissions (by market-
based method) [million metric tons CO2e 
and million metric tons CO2e/million dollars 
of sales and revenues] 
• Total GHG emissions [million metric tons 
CO2e and million metric tons CO2e/million 
dollars of sales and revenues] 
• Total energy consumption [GJ and 
GJ/million dollars of sales and revenues*]  
• Total water consumption [billion gallons 
and absolute thousand gallons of 
water/million dollars of sales and revenues 
*Sales and revenue data based on Annual 10k filing.  Absolute only  
• Scope 2 GHG emissions (by location 
based method) [million metric tons CO2e]; 
• Total electricity [MWH] 
• Non-contact cooling water [billion gallons] 
• Water from each of the following sources 
[%] 
• Non-contact cooling water from 
foundry operations 
• Municipal water 
• Groundwater 
• Surface water 
Safety Indicators  
• Lost Time Case Frequency Rate (LTCIR); 
• Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (RIF) per 
200,000 hours worked 
Reporting 
criteria  The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as revised January 2015) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions and Caterpillar internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other indicators.  
Assurance 
standard ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
ISAE 3000 (Revised).  
Assurance level Limited assurance.  
Respective 
responsibilities Caterpillar is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to third 
parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.   
ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance 
activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.  
 
Our conclusions  
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Caterpillar 2020 data for the indicators listed 
above under ‘Scope of our Engagement’ are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. 
 
Our assurance activities   
Our objective was to assess whether the selected data are presented in accordance with the principles of completeness, 
comparability (across the organization) and accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and 
consolidation). We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were 
necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions.  
A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities:  
 Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes used for collecting 
and reporting the selected data (environmental and safety); 
 A review of the internal indicator definitions, reporting guidelines and emission and conversion factors; 
 An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the corporate data 
consolidation; 
 Virtual visits to one sites – Caterpillar Xuzhou Ltd. (Xuzhou, China) to review local reporting processes and consistency of 
reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site 
data capture and reporting methods, checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality assurance processes; 
 Desk-based review of source data for the top contributing sites to each key corporate EHS metrics (e.g. energy, 
water, hours worked) including a sample of invoices and local incident logs, among others.  
 
The limitations of our engagement  
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or 
estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context . 
 
 
Beth Wyke 
Head of Corporate Assurance  
21 April 2021 
 
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London 
www.ermcvs.com ; email: post@ermcvs.com    
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for 
clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. 
Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we 
undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest.  ERM CVS staff that 
have undertaken this engagement have provided no consultancy related services 
to Caterpillar in any respect.       2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   40   |  
Independent  Assurance Statement to Caterpillar Inc. 
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Caterpillar Inc. (Caterpillar) to provide limited 
assurance in relation to specified 2020  data in the Caterpillar 2020 Sustainability Report as set out below.   
 
 
Engagement s ummar y 
Scope of our 
engagement  Whether the Caterpillar 2020 data for the following indicators are fairly presented, in all material 
respects, with the reporting criteria:  
Environmental Data  
Absolute and intensity*  
• Scope 1 GHG emissions [million metric 
tons CO2e and million metric tons 
CO2e/million dollars of sales and revenues] 
• Scope 2 GHG emissions (by market-
based method) [million metric tons CO2e 
and million metric tons CO2e/million dollars 
of sales and revenues] 
• Total GHG emissions [million metric tons 
CO2e and million metric tons CO2e/million 
dollars of sales and revenues] 
• Total energy consumption [GJ and 
GJ/million dollars of sales and revenues*]  
• Total water consumption [billion gallons 
and absolute thousand gallons of 
water/million dollars of sales and revenues 
*Sales and revenue data based on Annual 10k filing.  Absolute only  
• Scope 2 GHG emissions (by location 
based method) [million metric tons CO2e]; 
• Total electricity [MWH] 
• Non-contact cooling water [billion gallons] 
• Water from each of the following sources 
[%] 
• Non-contact cooling water from 
foundry operations 
• Municipal water 
• Groundwater 
• Surface water 
Safety Indicators  
• Lost Time Case Frequency Rate (LTCIR); 
• Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (RIF) per 
200,000 hours worked 
Reporting 
criteria  The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as revised January 2015) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions and Caterpillar internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other indicators.  
Assurance 
standard ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
ISAE 3000 (Revised).  
Assurance level Limited assurance.  
Respective 
responsibilities Caterpillar is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to third 
parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.   
ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance 
activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.  
 
Our conclusions  
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Caterpillar 2020 data for the indicators listed 
above under ‘Scope of our Engagement’ are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. 
 
Our assurance activities   
Our objective was to assess whether the selected data are presented in accordance with the principles of completeness, 
comparability (across the organization) and accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and 
consolidation). We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were 
necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions.  
A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities:  
 Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes used for collecting 
and reporting the selected data (environmental and safety); 
 A review of the internal indicator definitions, reporting guidelines and emission and conversion factors; 
 An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the corporate data 
consolidation; 
 Virtual visits to one sites – Caterpillar Xuzhou Ltd. (Xuzhou, China) to review local reporting processes and consistency of 
reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site 
data capture and reporting methods, checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality assurance processes; 
 Desk-based review of source data for the top contributing sites to each key corporate EHS metrics (e.g. energy, 
water, hours worked) including a sample of invoices and local incident logs, among others.  
 
The limitations of our engagement  
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or 
estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context . 
 
 
Beth Wyke 
Head of Corporate Assurance  
21 April 2021 
 
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London 
www.ermcvs.com ; email: post@ermcvs.com    
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for 
clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. 
Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we 
undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest.  ERM CVS staff that 
have undertaken this engagement have provided no consultancy related services 
to Caterpillar in any respect. 
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   41   | ABOUT THIS 
REPORT
The reporting period is the 2020 calendar year, which is also 
Caterpillar’s fiscal year. Caterpillar is headquartered in 
Deerfield, Illinois, USA. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards. 
SASB publishes sector-specific reporting standards based on 
expert input and designed to allow businesses to identify the 
sustainability issues of highest importance to investors and 
most relevant in their industry.
We are also working toward a common global purpose with 
contributions to the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs). Given the breadth of our products, services and 
solutions, our advocacy on behalf of policies that enable 
sustainable development, and the Caterpillar Foundation’s 
effort to build resilient communities, Caterpillar and our 
customers are helping build a more sustainable future.
Report content represents 100% of the products and 
operations of Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries where  
we have a controlling financial interest. Where noted, Caterpillar’s independent dealer network and supplier 
network are also represented. Caterpillar and subsidiary 
brands are listed on our website. Caterpillar’s environmental 
and safety metrics for operations are consolidated based  
on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol “operational control” 
approach. Environmental data includes all manufacturing 
and office facilities with more than 500 employees. Safety 
data includes employees in all workplaces within 
Caterpillar’s reporting boundary.
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS)  
has conducted independent assurance of selected 2020 
environmental and safety data. To understand the scope, 
activities and conclusions of the assurance process, please 
see the ERM CVS Assurance Statement .Contact Us  
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   42   | 1. GHG emissions intensity reduction goal is based on our combined 
Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect, market-based) GHG emissions 
using a 2006 baseline year. Likewise, total absolute GHG emissions  
are a sum of Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) emissions.
2. Location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions are provided in accordance 
with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance (2015). Our market-based 
Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the Scope 2 Quality Criteria. 
The following instruments were used in calculating our market-based 
Scope 2 emissions: Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin, energy 
contracts, supplier-specific emission rates, Caterpillar-owned power 
generation facilities and, for the remainder of our facilities, grid 
average emission factors from USEPA’s eGRID (2017) and the 
International Energy Agency’s data (2018). For 2020 calculations, 
Caterpillar did not use residual mix factors.
3. Total energy and energy intensity data for 2018 and 2019 has been 
revised to bring our calculations into alignment with GRI guidance 
(302 Energy related disclosure standard).
4. Total renewable and alternative energy includes purchased and 
on-site generated alternative and renewable energy, as well as 
calculating the percentage of renewable energy from grid-purchased 
electricity using data obtained from the International Energy Agency.
5. Renewable Energy: Caterpillar defines renewable energy as energy 
resources that are naturally replenishing over a short period of time 
and virtually inexhaustible. Power generation examples include wind, 
solar, hydro, geothermal, tidal, wave, biomass and biogas from 
anaerobic digestion.6. Alternative Energy: Caterpillar defines alternative energy as any 
source of usable energy that offers substantial environmental 
benefits compared to the conventional sources of energy that it 
replaces. Power generation examples include landfill gas, coal mine 
and abandoned mine methane, combined heat and power, coal with 
carbon sequestration and localized power generation.
7. Data does not include Progress Rail or Solar Turbines.
8. Product returned for remanufacture (called “core”) is not always 
returned within the same calendar year as sold.
9. Percentages may not add to 100% due to rounding.
10. Water consumption intensity does not include noncontact cooling 
water from foundry operations.
11. This includes remanufacturing, component overhauls at Cat dealers, 
power generation using alternative energy sources, customer job site 
optimization and innovative new products. The components are 
evaluated each year to adjust for acquisitions, divestitures, offerings 
that become standard and improvements to data accuracy.
12. This represents employee and retiree donations made in the calendar 
year 2019 and the Caterpillar Foundation’s match made in the 
calendar year 2020.
13. This includes employee and retiree contributions and the Foundation 
match for campaigns in the United States, Canada, Mexico and 
Panama.
14. Data includes Caterpillar and agency employees. Data does not 
include contractor employees.
Note:  Some of the photos included within our 2020 Sustainability Report 
were taken before the COVID-19 pandemic and prior to masks 
being a requirement in Caterpillar facilities.
Endnotes
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   43   | Certain statements in this presentation relate to future events and expectations and are forward-looking statements within 
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “believe,” “estimate,” “will be,” “will,” 
“would,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “forecast,” “target,” “guide,” “project,” “intend,” “could,” “should” or other similar 
words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are 
forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our outlook, projections, forecasts or trend 
descriptions. These statements do not guarantee future performance and speak only as of the date they are made, and we do 
not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.
Caterpillar’s actual results may differ materially from those described or implied in our forward-looking statements based on 
a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) global and regional economic conditions and economic conditions in the 
industries we serve; (ii) commodity price changes, material price increases, fluctuations in demand for our products or 
significant shortages of material; (iii) government monetary or fiscal policies; (iv) political and economic risks, commercial 
instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we operate; (v) international trade policies and their impact 
on demand for our products and our competitive position, including the imposition of new tariffs or changes in existing tariff 
rates; (vi) our ability to develop, produce and market quality products that meet our customers’ needs; (vii) the impact of the 
highly competitive environment in which we operate on our sales and pricing; (viii) information technology security threats 
and computer crime; (ix) inventory management decisions and sourcing practices of our dealers and our OEM customers; (x) 
a failure to realize, or a delay in realizing, all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures; (xi) 
union disputes or other employee relations issues; (xii) adverse effects of unexpected events; (xiii) disruptions or volatility in 
global financial markets limiting our sources of liquidity or the liquidity of our customers, dealers and suppliers; (xiv) failure 
to maintain our credit ratings and potential resulting increases to our cost of borrowing and adverse effects on our cost of 
funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets; (xv) our Financial Products segment’s risks associated 
with the financial services industry; (xvi) changes in interest rates or market liquidity conditions; (xvii) an increase in 
delinquencies, repossessions or net losses of Cat Financial’s customers; (xviii) currency fluctuations; (xix) our or Cat 
Financial’s compliance with financial and other restrictive covenants in debt agreements; (xx) increased pension plan funding 
obligations; (xxi) alleged or actual violations of trade or anti-corruption laws and regulations; (xxii) additional tax expense or 
exposure, including the impact of U.S. tax reform; (xxiii) significant legal proceedings, claims, lawsuits or government 
investigations; (xxiv) new regulations or changes in financial services regulations; (xxv) compliance with environmental laws 
and regulations; (xxvi) the duration and geographic spread of, business disruptions caused by, and the overall global 
economic impact of, the COVID-19 pandemic; and (xxvii) other factors described in more detail in Caterpillar’s Forms 10-Q, 
10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Forward-Looking Statements
      2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |   44   | © 2021 Caterpillar. All Rights Reserved. CAT, CATERPILLAR, LET’S DO THE WORK, their respective logos,  
“Caterpillar Corporate Yellow," the “Power Edge” and Cat “Modern Hex” trade dress, as well as corporate  
and product identity used herein, are trademarks of Caterpillar and may not be used without permission.
Caterpillar: Nonconfidential
Read More Online 
Throughout the year, Caterpillar shares stories of how 
our solutions are helping customers build a better world. 
Visit caterpillar.com/sustainability to learn more about 
how we’re making a difference through efficient 
operations, more sustainable products, a rewarding 
workplace and philanthropic actions. 
caterpillar.com/sustainability 