2020 Sustainability ReportDelivering a 
Sustainable 
FutureCautionary Statements
The information contained in our 2020 Sustainability Report is provided by Century Aluminum Company (the “Company” or “Century”) as of the publication date and is subject to 
change. After the publication of this 2020 Sustainability Report, Century does not have any responsibility or obligation to update or revise any such statements, regardless of whether 
those statements are affected by new information, future events or otherwise. This 2020 Sustainability Report is provided for informational purposes only for Century’s stakeholders. 
It does not constitute any offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell any securities of Century. 
This Sustainability Report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 
and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are statements about future events and are based on our current expectations. These forward-
looking statements may be identified by the words “believe,” “expect,” “hope,” “target,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “estimate,” “potential,” “project,” “scheduled,” 
“forecast” or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “might,” or “may.” Where we express an expectation or belief as to 
future events or results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis. However, our forward-looking statements are based on current 
expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from future results expressed, projected or implied by 
those forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results and events to differ from those described in such forward-looking statements can be found in 
the risk factors and forward-looking statements cautionary language contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and in other filings made with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. Although we have attempted to identify those material factors that could cause actual results or events to differ from those described in such 
forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that could cause results or events to differ from those anticipated, estimated or intended. Many of these factors are beyond 
our ability to control or predict. Given these uncertainties, stakeholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to 
update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 2Century Aluminum  
is a global primary  
aluminum producer  
with operations in  
the United States  
and Iceland.CONTENTS
4 Message From Our CEO and COO
5 Our Company
About Century Aluminum
Our Products
Stakeholder Engagement
Sustainability Approach
Strategy and Risk
Governance
Ethics and Compliance 
19 Environmental Sustainability
Energy and Emissions
Climate Change 
Innovation and Low Carbon Products31 Social Responsibility
Health and Safety
Our Employees and Human Capital 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Training and Education
Labor Rights
Human Rights
43 GRI Content Index
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 3Since Century Aluminum Company’s founding, the maintenance of healthy, safe and 
sustainable operations has been at the core of our philosophy and our daily practices. 
We insist on adherence to applicable laws and regulations at each of our facilities throughout the 
United States and globally. That being said, we regard compliance as our minimum responsibility. 
Our principles and practices are founded upon maintenance of a culture of which all our 
stakeholders can be proud; to this end, we insist upon consistent improvement each and every day 
and the achievement of best-in-class performance.
Aluminum is commonly known as “The Green Metal” and we see it as our responsibility to 
commit ourselves to produce our aluminum in a responsible and sustainable manner. We use our 
knowledge and experience in the primary aluminum industry in order to work to continuously 
evolve and strive to meet our commitment to improve the sustainability of our operations. We are 
proud of the effort and commitment made by our employees every day. 
Keeping our operations safe is our most important responsibility. It is our obligation to ensure that 
each of our employees and visitors returns home safe and healthy to their loved ones and friends 
every day. Tragically, in 2020, we experienced two fatalities at our operations. These incidents were 
devastating to all of us here at Century and especially painful given our collective commitment to 
keeping each other safe. We’re redoubling our efforts to ensure that a similar event does not ever 
happen again and we are sharing the lessons across the Company. 
We strive to invest in and operate our plants in accordance with best-in-class health and safety and 
environmental standards and performance. This objective was of particular importance during 2020 
when confronting the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe that, as stewards of these operations, we 
have a responsibility to our nearby and broader communities. Strong environmental, social, and 
governance performance and policies are not only the right thing to do, but also a sign of a business 
that delivers and prioritizes sustainable value for its stakeholders. 
We encourage all of our stakeholders to read this Sustainability Report; we are always interested in 
hearing the thoughts and opinions of all stakeholders in helping us continue to improve.
Michael A. Bless  
President and Chief Executive OfficerJesse E. Gary  
Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, 
General Counsel and Secretary Message 
From Our CEO 
and COO
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 4Hawesville
Hawesville, KY  
United StatesSebree
Robards, KY  
United StatesMt. Holly
Mt. Holly, SC  
United StatesNordural
Grundartangi,  
Iceland
At present, our primary aluminum annual production capacity is approximately
1,000,000 tonnes per year (tpy)
Anode Production
Anodes are used in the production of primary aluminum. Vlissingen 
supplies anodes to Nordural while each of our smelters in the United 
States produces anodes at on-site facilities.Al
Vlissingen
Vlissingen, 
NetherlandsOur Company
Aluminum Smelter Locations
These facilities produce value-added and standard grade aluminum products.About Century Aluminum
Century is a global producer of primary aluminum. Our principal corporate 
headquarters are in Chicago, Illinois.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 5At the end of 2020, we employed approximately
2,000 men and women 
across our operations.Our Company
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 6As the world is increasingly focused on working towards a more sustainable and 
responsible future, aluminum’s unique properties make it part of the broader 
solution. Companies around the globe are using aluminum to make products 
safer, lighter, increasingly fuel efficient, and more recyclable. Century applies 
its specialized knowledge and experience in the primary aluminum industry 
to work to continuously evolve and deliver consistent, high-quality products 
to our customers while also striving to meet our commitment to improved 
sustainability of our operations.In 2020, Century 
produced approximately 
800,000
tonnes of aluminum.Our Company
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 7Our Products
High Purity
Natur-Al™
Billet
Ingot
Primary  
Foundry Alloy
Sow
Molten
SlabOur Company
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 8Century prides itself on producing 
aluminum with one of the lowest CO2 
footprints in the world. Natur-Al ™ is 
produced at our plant in Grundartangi, 
Iceland, and has a total carbon footprint 
below four tonnes CO2 per tonne of 
aluminum – less than one-quarter of the 
industry average. 
Scrap Reprocessing 
As part of our operations, we maintain 
billet cast houses where we recycle 
scrap back into our products. Recycled 
aluminum requires 95% less energy to 
process than primary aluminum. As we 
continue to increase the amount of scrap 
aluminum that is reprocessed in our 
operations, we are in turn reducing our 
carbon footprint and giving our customers 
the opportunity to buy aluminum 
products with recycled content.Sustainable Highlights  of Century ProductsOur Company
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 9Stakeholder Engagement
Many of our corporate governance practices are a 
result of continued dialogue and collaboration with 
our stakeholders. 
Our engagement with stakeholders is based 
on our commitment to mutual and transparent 
communication. The key stakeholder groups with 
which we engage include, but are not limited to:
• Employees;
• Customers;
• Local communities;
• Suppliers/contractors;
• Governments/regulatory bodies; and
• Shareholders/investors. We believe consistent transparent interaction 
with our various stakeholder groups is one of our 
core responsibilities and is an important factor 
in the Company’s continued success. Ongoing 
communication with our employees includes training 
in safety, compliance, and ethics. We communicate 
our values to our customers and ensure that our 
interactions with them incorporate these values. 
We engage daily with our local communities, 
communicating our health and environmental policies 
and operating as a good neighbor via charitable and 
other activities. Our suppliers and contractors are 
required to adhere to our safety, environmental, and 
ethical policies and practices. We practice the highest 
standards of transparent and honest communications 
when interacting with governmental and regulatory 
bodies. We appreciate feedback from our investors 
and respond transparently to their inquiries.Our Company
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 10Our Company
Sustainability 
Approach
As a key participant in the global 
primary aluminum industry, and the 
largest producer of primary aluminum 
in the United States, Century has 
a critical role to play in delivering a 
safer, healthier, and more sustainable 
future. Aluminum is infinitely 
recyclable and retains its properties 
indefinitely; over 75% of the primary 
aluminum ever manufactured is still 
in use today, versus being landfilled 
or disposed of through another 
method. Aluminum’s light weight, 
coupled with its inherent strength, 
enables environmentally friendly 
results such as the light-weighting of 
vehicles and the use of less material 
on a relative basis in a wide variety 
of applications including in the 
aerospace and defense industries. 
We believe it is the responsibility of 
the primary aluminum industry, and 
each participant therein, to promote 
the continued development of these 
products and technologies toward the 
common good.Material Topics
With the help of an external expert and through 
engagement of internal stakeholders, we determined 
that the following environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) topics were the most relevant to Century’s 
business priorities in 2020 and underpinned our business 
and sustainability endeavors for the past year. Each year, 
we will continue to review this list of material topics 
and revisit the initial assessment with key stakeholders 
as we move forward, to continuously ensure that the 
areas identified below represent the key to improving 
sustainability at Century.
Environmental
Climate ChangeEnergy and  
EmissionsLow-Carbon  
Products
Social
Health and 
SafetyHuman  
RightsLabor  
RightsTraining and 
Education
Governance
Ethics and Compliance Innovation
Over 75% of all aluminum ever 
produced is still in use today.75%
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 11Safety 
Safety and sustainability are at the core of who we 
are at Century; as such, our safety and sustainability 
strategy is overseen by our Board of Directors, 
which maintains a Health, Safety & Sustainability 
Committee (HSS Committee) for this purpose. The 
HSS Committee meets a minimum of four times per 
year and often more frequently. Through the HSS 
Committee, our Board of Directors provides strategic 
oversight of our approach to safety and sustainability. 
Management reports directly to the HSS Committee 
and has primary responsibility for managing our 
safety and sustainability efforts.
We devote significant effort to the maintenance 
of a best-in-class safety environment and on its 
continuous improvement. Guided by our “Safety 
Vision and Values,”  we deploy numerous policies and 
programs aimed at providing a safe workplace. We 
devote substantial time and emphasis to training and 
job hazard identification. We maintain standard safety 
operating procedures, which are under constant 
assessment and improvement. We continuously 
evaluate the physical condition of our facilities 
and strive to make changes proactively to identify 
and mitigate risks. Safety performance is a critical 
input into our evaluation of our leaders and broader 
employee population.Energy
The reduction of alumina, our principal raw material, 
into primary aluminum requires a significant amount 
of electric power. This basic scientific fact has 
remained true since the discovery of the electrolytic 
reduction process in the late nineteenth century. The 
primary aluminum industry is devoting substantial 
resources towards the goal of a significant reduction 
in its carbon footprint, which in large part arises from 
the electric power consumed in the smelting process; 
Century has been and will continue to be a committed 
participant in these critical efforts. We use a variety  
of strategies to this end, including: 
•  Nordural sources 100% of its energy requirements 
from hydroelectric and geothermal resources. 
This, along with Nordural’s world-class operational 
performance, results in Nordural´s CO2 emissions 
being among the lowest in the world.
•  In the U.S., an increasing percentage of our 
electricity is generated from renewable sources, 
such as wind and solar. This percentage is 
expected to increase significantly over the next 
several years as the overall generation mix of 
the Midcontinent Independent System Operator 
(MISO) system becomes increasingly based on 
renewable sources. We are also actively pursuing 
opportunities to add renewable power sources 
directly into the supply chain for our plants located 
in Kentucky through bilateral arrangements. Our Company
Safety performance is 
a critical input into our 
evaluation of our leaders and 
broader employee population.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 12•  In 2019, Nordural was certified against the 
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) 
Performance Standard for responsible 
production, sourcing, and stewardship of 
aluminum. This demonstrates our commitment 
to environmental, social, and governance 
performance. The ASI 
Certification program 
was developed 
through an extensive 
multi-stakeholder 
consultation process and is the only 
comprehensive voluntary sustainability standard 
initiative for the aluminum value chain. The ASI 
Performance Standard defines environmental, 
social, and governance principles and criteria, 
with the aim to address sustainability issues in the 
aluminum value chain. It sets out 59 criteria under 
the three sustainability pillars of Governance, 
Environment, and Social, which address key 
issues such as biodiversity, Indigenous Peoples’ 
rights, and greenhouse gas emissions. The 
independent, third-party audit of Nordural was 
carried out by DNV GL and includes a full life cycle 
assessment of the whole production process from 
bauxite mining until the product is delivered to 
our customers. We are exploring the possibility of 
obtaining additional ASI certifications at Nordural 
and at our U.S. operations. 
•  We continuously strive to reduce the power 
intensity and improve the environmental 
performance of all our plants. One of the Key 
Performance Indicators (KPI) by which we measure 
our smelters is the amount of electrical power 
required to produce 1 tonne of aluminum; we make significant investments in technology toward 
reducing the power intensity of our plants. We 
also measure and seek to reduce the number and 
duration of anode effects. In our operations, anode 
effects measure the stability of the reduction 
process and have direct correlation to the 
environmental performance of the smelters. Each 
of these KPIs has been continuously improving 
across our system.
•  We also make significant investments, and 
take particular care, in the operation of the 
environmental systems at each of our facilities,  
the performance of which is regularly reviewed  
by local regulatory authorities. In addition, we have 
efforts at each of our plants aimed at maximizing 
materials reused or sent to recycling facilities,  
and minimizing the amount sent to landfills.Our Company
Green Accounting
Nordural keeps and publishes its Green 
Accounting  on an annual basis and 
delivers this report to the Environment 
Agency of Iceland in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. The 
aim of Green Accounting is to improve 
our Nordural plant’s ability to identify 
opportunities to increase efficiency, 
improve processes, reduce waste, 
and increase general awareness of 
environmental issues throughout the 
manufacturing process. 
The continuous improvement of our health, safety, and sustainability performance is a core tenet  
of the manner in which we operate our business; it is also a source of pride to our employees.  
Our success, past and future, is not based upon simple platitudes, but a result of planning and 
execution of our goals through hard work and dedication each and every day.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 13Strategy and Risk
We regularly discuss our strategy with our various constituencies, 
including our investors. For these discussions (materials for which can 
be found on our website at www.centuryaluminum.com ), we list our top 
strategic priorities, in the following order:
Optimizing Safety and Environmental Performance. Promoting and cultivating a best-in-
class culture of safety and environmental performance across all of our operations.
 Improving our Productivity and Efficiency. We seek to do this in a number of ways, 
including, but not limited to (i) increasing our manufacturing base, (ii) introducing 
more value-added products to support our customers, and (iii) continued innovation 
and efforts to increase efficiency in our production processes. 
Pursuing Upstream Investment Opportunities. Pursuing opportunities to own and operate 
alumina refining and bauxite mining operations, in order to be in a position to exert 
more direct control over these key raw materials.
 Robust Financial Profile and Strong Balance Sheet.  Continuing to maintain a lean cost 
base and strong capital structure to protect our investors and to maintain our ability 
to capitalize on opportunities for growth.
We utilize a robust risk management system and process, overseen by 
our Board’s Audit Committee and discussed regularly with our full Board 
of Directors. Our Enterprise Risk Management approach is based upon 
internationally recognized standards and Internal Control frameworks. 
We identify key risks to Century and our employees, communities, and 
other constituencies. We maintain a process for quantifying and 
qualifying these risks, identifying amongst other features the likelihood 
that a risk event will occur and its potential impact on our people, our 
operations, and our financial profile.Our Company
Discussion of Century’s 
material risks can be 
found in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K  
for the year ended 
December 31, 2020. 
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 14Governance
Strong governance is the foundation upon which our success is based. We 
are committed to good corporate governance, which we believe promotes 
long-term value creation for our stockholders. Many of our corporate 
governance practices are a result of continued dialogue and collaboration 
with our various stakeholders. Our Board of Directors sets high standards 
for our employees, officers, and directors. The Board, which is responsible 
for the supervision of the overall business affairs of Century, establishes 
corporate policies, sets strategic direction, and oversees management, 
who are responsible for Century’s day-to-day operations.
To assist it in carrying out its duties, the Board has established four 
standing committees:
Health, 
Safety and 
SustainabilityAudit CompensationGovernance and 
Nominating
Each standing committee has a written charter that defines its  
role and responsibility within the Company’s larger corporate 
governance framework. 
We are committed to maintaining a balance of skills, diversity, 
viewpoints, and experiences on the Board. Our directors bring a range 
of various attributes, perspectives, and experiences along with opinions 
and individual perspectives, all of which are reflective of the global 
industry in which we participate. 
The Board and our Governance and Nominating Committee believe 
that diversity is an important aspect in Board composition and consider 
diversity when evaluating any recommendations for nominations to the 
Board. Reflecting this commitment, the Governance and Nominating 
Committee’s charter reflects the full Rooney Rule and provides that any 
search for potential director candidates include qualified candidates 
who reflect diverse backgrounds, including diversity of gender, 
ethnicity, and race.Details of our Company’s 
bylaws and committee 
charters along with  
Century’s other corporate 
governance policies are 
available on our website at 
www.c enturyaluminum.com .
The Board and 
our Governance 
and Nominating 
Committee believe 
that diversity is an 
important aspect in 
Board composition.Our Company
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 15Our CompanyEthics and Compliance 
At Century, we hold our employees 
and partners to high ethical standards. 
We are committed to carrying out 
our business activities in a manner 
consistent with our core values of 
honesty, integrity, and transparency. 
Our global Code of Ethics embodies 
these values and outlines our 
expectations for how employees, 
directors, and officers should handle 
all business interactions. 
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 16Code of Ethics for Suppliers  
and Business Partners
Our Code of Ethics for Suppliers and Business 
Partners outlines the expectations regarding 
the standards of ethical business dealing that 
we expect from all suppliers, business partners, 
vendors, contractors, agents, and consultants 
of Century and its subsidiaries. We expect all 
suppliers and third-party contractors working 
with Century to maintain high ethical standards 
and act with integrity. 
Our Code of Ethics  outlines our commitment to 
comply with all laws, rules, and regulations that are 
applicable wherever we do business. We expect our 
directors, officers, and employees to act in the best 
interests of the Company and expect our employees 
to communicate openly and transparently in the 
event of any conflicts of interest. 
As part of our commitment to a culture of 
compliance throughout our operations, all salaried 
Century employees receive regular, mandatory 
training on the Code of Ethics and our employee 
handbook. This training includes a host of relevant 
topics, including our anti-corruption policy, related 
party transactions, conflicts of interest, human 
rights, and anti-discrimination and anti-harassment. 
Any director, officer, or employee of Century who 
becomes aware of any violation of the Code of Ethics 
or of any of our corporate governance policies is 
required to report the violation. Reports may be 
made to any supervisor, any member of human 
resources or site management, or to the General 
Counsel. Reports can also be made anonymously 
through our independent third-party reporting 
system, Ethical Advocate. Reports made through 
this reporting system can be made 24 hours a day, 
any day of the year. The line is available in multiple languages for our employees. Century has a strict 
policy of no retaliation for reporting in good faith any 
violation or alleged violation. 
Our Code of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Policy and 
Business Courtesy Guidelines ban any director, 
officer, or employee from accepting any business-
related gifts or free services beyond ordinary 
business practice. We regularly assess our operations 
for material risks of corruption and are not aware of 
any material violations in 2020. In 2020, we did not 
receive any material fines for non-compliance with 
environment, social, or economic laws or regulations 
in any jurisdiction in which we operate.Our Company
See our Code of Ethics  and our 
Code of Ethics for Suppliers and 
Business Partners .
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 17MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Ethics & Compliance - Anti-Corruption, Environmental 
Compliance, Socioeconomic Compliance
As outlined in our Code of Ethics , it is the policy of 
the Company to comply with all applicable laws and 
regulations and uphold our commitment to ethics 
and compliance. The Company expects our directors, 
officers, and employees to conduct personal and 
business dealings in accordance with the letter, 
spirit, and intent of all applicable laws, rules and 
regulations and to refrain from any form of illegal or 
unethical conduct. 
Employees are encouraged to provide Century with 
anonymous and confidential concerns or reports of 
misconduct or violations through the online Ethical 
Advocate platform. Our Legal Team follows up on 
any reported violations. All reports regarding any 
misconduct or violations of any Century corporate 
governance policies are taken seriously by the Company and an investigation is performed to 
determine if a violation has occurred. 
Environmental and socioeconomic compliance issues 
are also overseen by our Legal Team. Company-wide 
policies in this area include our Code of Ethics and 
Code of Ethics for Suppliers and Business Partners.
Due to the global nature of our business as well as the 
complexity of Century’s operations and the primary 
aluminum production processes, our Legal Team 
relies upon outside counsel at certain times in order 
to help us achieve our legal compliance objectives. 
Our Legal Team works across the Company and 
with other departments to effectively and efficiently 
manage and ensure compliance in the United States 
and abroad. Our Company
We provide regular, mandatory training 
on the Code of Ethics and our Anti-
Corruption and Business Courtesy 
Guidelines, and salaried employees are 
required to complete and return an annual 
certification acknowledgment that they 
have read, understand, and will comply 
with these policies.Our Company
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 18Environmental 
Sustainability
At Century, we understand and value the 
importance of minimizing our environmental 
impacts through the choices we make as 
a business and we prioritize best-in-class 
environmental performance.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 19Energy and Emissions
Electrical Power in Primary Aluminum Production
Electricity is one of the primary raw materials critical 
to our operations; the aluminum production process 
is highly energy intensive, making electrical power 
our single largest production cost. Century sells 
aluminum into a global commodity market, and in 
order to maintain and continue to grow and expand 
our operations, we must have consistent access 
to reliable power at all of our smelters on fair and 
competitive terms. 
In recent years, driven by price and environmental 
concerns, the national power grid in the United 
States is shifting away from coal to natural gas and 
renewable energy sources. Century is committed 
to integrating sustainability considerations into our 
power procurement decisions. 100% of the power 
supplied to Nordural comes from hydroelectric and 
geothermal sources. At our Kentucky smelters, 
our power purchases have included an increasing amount of renewable energy for each of the past 
several years. We are actively pursuing opportunities 
to add other renewable power generation directly into 
our energy mix.
Energy Consumption
We seek opportunities to reduce the overall energy 
we consume through a variety of production 
efficiency and technology upgrades at all of our 
facilities, some of which are detailed in this Report 
under “Climate Change” and “Innovation and Low 
Carbon Products.” 
Fuel consumption is also part of our overall energy 
consumption, and specifically includes our use of 
diesel, natural gas, gasoline, and propane. In 2020, 
we consumed approximately 174,499 MWh of fuel 
at Vlissingen, 5,143 MWh of fuel at Nordural, 193,249 
MWh of fuel at Hawesville, 306,144 MWh of fuel at 
Sebree and 223,861 MWh of fuel at Mt. Holly. Environmental Sustainability
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 20As noted previously, the aluminum production process is highly energy-intensive and during the smelting 
process, alumina is dissolved into a solution and a strong electric current is then needed for conversion, 
consuming a significant amount of electricity in the process. 
The table below illustrates our total electricity consumption in the years 2018 through 2020. 
Electricity Consumption Reported in MWh 2018 2019 2020
Hawesville Smelter 2,111,040 2,739,955 3,025,888
Sebree Smelter 3,152,656 3,376,480 3,229,453
Mt. Holly Smelter 1,707,347 1,712,043 1,637,468
Nordural Smelter** 4,662,219 4,673,419 4,645,523
Total MWh 11,633,262 12,501,897 12,538,332Environmental Sustainability
**  We have combined the electricity consumption data for our Vlissingen and our Nordural operations as Vlissingen produces more than 90% of 
the anodes used by Nordural for its production process for primary aluminum. Our US facilities have anode facilities all on-site and therefore 
the electricity consumption data above for Hawesville, Sebree and Mt. Holly all incorporate electricity consumption associated with their 
anode production as well as their primary aluminum production processes.
Our overall electricity and total energy 
consumption has increased since 2018 as we 
increased production across our operations.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 21Emissions
Carbon dioxide represents the majority of 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions generated from 
our operations; in addition, our aluminum production 
process generates other GHG emissions. We ensure 
our operations stay within applicable emission 
permits and licenses at each of our locations and 
continually investigate ways to minimize emissions in 
a feasible and economically viable manner.
We measure Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) 
emissions at each of our sites. For our U.S. 
operations, we calculate our Scope 1 emissions according to methodologies found in the EPA 
Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program and the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol, depending on data 
availability. At our Icelandic and Dutch operations, we 
operate pursuant to the EU Emission Trading Scheme 
and our Scope 1 emissions data and calculations 
are independently audited at each location. At each 
Century operation, we follow a strategy to operate, 
maintain, and monitor the relevant equipment and air 
pollution control systems as required by law and with 
sound air pollution control practices. Environmental Sustainability
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 22Consolidated Scope 1 Emissions Intensity Reported in MT CO2e per MT  
Aluminum Produced Across Century Operations 
2018 
2019 
2020
Average MT CO2e per MT Al 2.50 2.44 2.98 Environmental Sustainability
Scope 1 Emissions Reported in Thousand MT CO2e 2018 2019 2020
Hawesville Smelter (a) 545.0 614.5 939.3
Sebree Smelter (a) 508.4 535.0 594.7
Mt. Holly Smelter (a) 266.2 254.9 262.6
Nordural Smelter** (b) 568.9 561.4 568.4
Total in Thousand MT CO2e 1,888.5 1,965.8 2,365.0
**  We have combined the Scope 1 emissions data for our Vlissingen and our Nordural operations as Vlissingen produces more than 90% 
of the anodes used by Nordural for its production process for primary aluminum. Our US facilities have anode facilities all on-site and 
therefore the Scope 1 emissions data above for Hawesville, Sebree and Mt. Holly all incorporate emissions associated with their anode 
production as well as their primary aluminum production processes. 
(a)  All Scope 1 Emissions numbers denoted above for Hawesville, Sebree and Mt. Holly reflects data that the Company reports to the U.S. EPA. 
(b) All Scope 1 Emissions numbers reflected above for Nordural were calculated in accordance with the EU Emission Trading System.
Scope 2 Emissions Reported in Thousand MT CO2e 2018 2019 2020
Hawesville Smelter (a) 993.9 1,188.1 1,312.1
Sebree Smelter (a) 1,484.4 1,464.2 1,400.4
Mt. Holly Smelter (a) 579.3 527.3 504.3
Nordural Smelter**(b) 8.7 8.0 8.0
Total in Thousand MT CO2e 3,066.3 3,187.6 3,224.8
**  We have combined the Scope 2 emissions data for our Vlissingen and our Nordural operations as Vlissingen produces more than 90% 
of the anodes used by Nordural for its production process for primary aluminum. Our US facilities have anode facilities all on-site and 
therefore the Scope 2 emissions data above for Hawesville, Sebree and Mt. Holly all incorporate emissions associated with their anode 
production as well as their primary aluminum production processes. 
(a)  Our Scope 2 emissions for Hawesville, Sebree and Mt. Holly were calculated using the eGrid emission factors data, noting that for 
purposes of calculation for the 2020 data, we relied on the 2019 U.S. EPA eGrid emissions factors data as 2020 data is not yet publicly 
available at the time of publication of this Report. 
(b)  Our Scope 2 emissions arising out of the Nordural smelter alone were calculated through the use of the average emission factors for 
electricity production in Iceland, published by the Environmental Agency in Iceland whereas the component of this calculation arising 
out of the Vlissingen facility comes from data furnished by our power suppliers in Vlissingen.
Consolidated Scope 2 Emissions Intensity Reported in MT CO2e per MT  
Aluminum Produced Across Century Operations 2018 2019 2020
Average MT CO2e per MT Al 4.07 3.96 4.06Measuring Our Emissions
The data contained in the charts below represents the CO2 emissions generated from our aluminum production 
processes. Our CO2 emissions have increased since 2018 as we increase and expand our operations.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 23MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Energy
Power represents one of our largest operating costs, 
and as such, we must have access to it at a price 
and with terms that allow us to be competitive. 
The aluminum smelting process is continuous, and 
any interruption to the power supply can lead to 
costly damage to reduction cells and other smelting 
equipment. This makes the reliability of our power 
supply crucial to our operations. MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Emissions
Century is committed to minimizing negative 
environmental impact from its operations and 
complying with applicable environmental laws and 
regulations. We monitor our emissions throughout 
the aluminum production process. Relevant GHG, 
particulate and volatile emissions are measured, 
captured, and maintained within regulated levels 
and operating licenses. Century performs regular 
inspections on equipment used to measure 
and manage these emissions to ensure their 
proper function. All our operations have effective 
environmental management systems in place; in 
particular, Nordural is certified to the ISO 14001 
Environmental Management standard. We spend 
significant resources and effort toward operating 
our smelters within a tight band of consistency and 
stability; there is a direct correlation in the primary 
aluminum process between the stability of the 
operations and the emissions produced. Environmental Sustainability
Century is committed to incorporating 
sustainability considerations into our 
power procurement decisions and is 
actively pursuing the use of renewable 
energy sources where feasible and 
viable for our operations.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 24Climate Change 
At Century, we believe in the importance of environmental stewardship and seek to mitigate 
any environmental impact that arises from our operations; every employee contributes to 
this effort through his or her own actions and by upholding these Company values. This 
philosophy applies to our approach in addressing climate change, where we contribute 
to international programs working towards a collective climate solution. We contribute by 
monitoring our energy use and emissions at each of our facilities, as well as looking for, 
assessing, and evaluating opportunities to invest in cleaner and more efficient production 
processes and technology upgrades. We also participate in industry-wide efforts aimed at 
addressing this most important issue for the future of our world.
Every employee plays a role in helping us reduce and manage our environmental impact 
and carbon footprint. We prioritize taking care of each other and building a culture that 
values the health and safety of our employees, communities, and environment. 
To make lasting change and 
move towards long-term 
sustainability, we must work 
together as a company and 
globally to make meaningful 
progress. Environmental Sustainability
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 25Doing our part as a company to combat climate change means investing in new technology and machinery to 
reduce our carbon footprint and improve production efficiencies as well as continuing to improve our internal 
processes. By investing in these technology and machinery upgrades, we are distinguishing ourselves in 
environmental sustainability efforts and reinforcing the Century brand. 
As part of these efforts, some of our recent initiatives include:
•  Technical redesign of our Vlissingen carbon anode 
facility to optimize energy use and production 
capacity. The result of this redesign is increased 
production output by approximately 20% while 
simultaneously reducing energy consumption  
by 10%.
•  We undertook significant efforts in 2020 to 
address fugitive dust emissions at our Mt. Holly 
smelter by performing equipment modifications 
and streamlining work practices. This includes 
improvement in anode quality, reduction in anode 
manufacturing scrap rates, and reduction of early 
anode failures in the potline, all of which have the 
benefit of reducing emissions.
•  During the last few years at Hawesville, we 
introduced a new pot lining design discussed 
in this Report on page 30 , which is designed 
to reduce power consumption and improve 
efficiencies. •  We continue to develop “green aluminum” 
products to reduce both our and our customers’ 
carbon impact. An example of this is our Natur-
Al™ product, launched in 2020. To learn more, 
please see page 29 .
•  At Nordural, we put in parking lots that are 
equipped with electric vehicle (EV) charging 
stations where employees can charge their EVs for 
free. We also have a carpool commuting program 
at Nordural, which encourages employees to not 
only reduce their environmental impact on their 
way to and from work, but also helps build a sense 
of community among our employees. The goal of 
both of these projects is to reduce the Company’s, 
as well as our employees’, carbon footprint and 
promote environmentally friendly transportation. Environmental Sustainability
As a member of the European Economic Area (“EEA”) and a signatory to the Paris Agreement (and formerly 
the Kyoto Protocol), Iceland and the Netherlands have each implemented legislation to abide by the Paris 
Agreement and Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament (the “Directive”) which establishes a “cap and 
trade” scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. We comply with the Directive by participating in 
the European Union (“EU”) Emission Trading System, which requires us to purchase carbon dioxide allowances 
for our Nordural plant. Nordural has set ambitious targets for reducing GHG emissions and waste from sources 
outside the EU Emissions Trading System by 40% by 2030, with a 2015 baseline. 
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 26MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Climate Change
Climate change is an issue that is facing the global community, and Century is committed 
to working towards the global climate solution as a primary aluminum producer. We are 
always looking for opportunities to minimize any climate-related effect from our operations. 
In line with our Health, Safety and Sustainability Policy , the products we make, materials we 
source, and energy we use are all considered for their environmental impacts, including any 
impacts on climate change. By taking steps to reduce risks arising from climate change and 
working on how we can help our customers reduce theirs through the use of our products, 
we are well positioned to capitalize on any upcoming climate opportunities and mitigate 
climate risks in our operations. 
We continue to monitor any climate 
change regulations and policies that 
are implemented or considered in the 
United States, the Netherlands, and 
Iceland, including any new policies 
or regulations connected to the re-
entry of the United States into the 
Paris Agreement in early 2021. We 
will continue to ensure that we are 
compliant with any climate-related 
regulations that may govern the way we 
do business, now and into the future.Environmental Sustainability
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 27Environmental Sustainability
Climate Action Plan  
at Nordural
Nordural has implemented a Climate Action 
Plan, which was developed in accordance with 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology for 
detecting emissions, an international system 
designed to standardize carbon accounting. To 
learn more about these efforts, please see the 
Climate Action Plan .
Nordural’s GHG emissions within the 
scope of the Climate Action Plan have 
decreased by 14% and the amount of 
waste by 6% from 2015 through 2019. 
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 28Innovation and Low Carbon Products
Low Carbon Products
We believe aluminum will play a pivotal role in 
shaping a sustainable future. The light weight, durable 
yet malleable nature of the metal makes it desirable 
to use in a variety of applications, while offering 
significant sustainability advantages to producers and 
end users. By using a lighter metal, manufacturers 
can make products safer, lighter, more fuel efficient, 
and recyclable. With over 75% of all aluminum ever 
produced still in circulation today, combined with the 
reduced energy needs for repurposing it, this material 
offers unrivaled recyclability. 
In addition to the highly sustainable nature of 
aluminum, Century takes this a step further by 
reducing carbon emissions in the manufacturing 
process in Natur-Al™, our low carbon product which 
is produced at our Nordural smelter which has one of 
the lowest CO2 footprints in the world for aluminum. 
We accomplish this through seamless reduction 
processes, strict adherence to the highest standards 
in sourcing bauxite and alumina and using only 
renewable energy. As with all aluminum products 
produced at Nordural, Natur-Al™ is made with 
energy from 100% renewable resources. Our mission is to enhance the value of all products 
that are built with our metal. Century is committed 
to working with all our partners across the supply 
chain to produce a sustainable and lower carbon 
aluminum product. We firmly believe that Natur-
Al™ helps Century and our customers contribute 
towards a better, greener future, and we have 
begun to finalize sales of the Natur-Al™ product to 
customers early in 2021. We want manufacturers 
to use our product with pride, and to use it to their 
own advantage in highly competitive markets for 
consumer goods, vehicles, medicine, construction 
materials, and countless other applications. Like 
all aluminum, Natur-Al™ is 100% recyclable, and 
repeated recycling will reduce its footprint even 
further into the future. In addition, Natur-Al™ ZERO 
is our fully offset, pure, carbon-neutral aluminum 
product line through which we encourage and 
assist our customers in reaching carbon-neutrality 
through contributions to reforestation and wetland-
reclamation projects.
With over 75% of all aluminum 
ever produced still in circulation 
today, combined with the 
reduced energy needs for 
repurposing it, this material 
offers unrivaled recyclability.Environmental Sustainability
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 29Other Innovative Efforts at our Operations 
At our U.S. operations, we are continuously working 
to better understand the characteristics and 
properties of our raw materials and their impact 
on the sustainability of our process. With this 
information, we can make better decisions on how 
to adjust manufacturing, optimize raw materials 
to improve efficiencies and reduce emissions. 
In addition, we educate our employees to better 
understand the impact of various operational 
decisions on the environmental performance of our 
plants, all in an effort to increase efficiency in our 
production processes. 
As part of the recent restart project at our Hawesville 
facility, we developed and are in the process of 
implementing new pot technology. The HV-1 pot 
design and new cell technology will deliver reduced 
power consumption and improved current efficiency. 
In trials that were conducted, power efficiency in 
the new pots lowered the KWhr / Kg of aluminum 
produced by up to 10%. We are hopeful that 
deployment of the HV-1 technology at the Hawesville 
smelter could reduce the smelter energy demand by 
up to 150,000 MWh per year.
Century also provides our customers with the 
opportunity to purchase aluminum made with more 
recycled content and we look for opportunities to 
further integrate recycled content into our products. 
This helps customers lower their own carbon 
footprint while helping Century save energy and 
in turn reducing our own emissions. Century can 
purchase scrap at bulk from waste markets, and 
since recycled aluminum requires 95% less energy to 
process than primary aluminum, this offers multiple 
layers of emission reductions. 
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Innovation
Our Chief Operating Officer and other operations 
team members are primarily responsible for 
exploring and proposing new ways we can 
collaborate with customers and suppliers to 
produce new products that distinguish us from our competitors. By better understanding the needs 
of these stakeholders, we can create innovative 
products to capitalize on new markets. 
MANAGEMENT APPROACH:  
Low Carbon Products
As outlined in our Health, Safety, and Sustainability 
Policy , Century has a focus on reducing the carbon 
footprint of our aluminum products. Our Chief 
Operating Officer and other operations team 
members are primarily responsible for continuing 
to investigate new ways of producing aluminum 
with less carbon. All our smelters are certified 
to the ISO 9001 Quality Management standard, 
which demonstrates our ability to consistently 
deliver products that meet customer and regulatory 
requirements. 
Nordural is participating in an international 
project, “CarbFix“, examining if it can 
become a viable option, both technically and 
financially to capture CO2 from the smelter’s 
exhaust, dissolve it in water under pressure 
then pump it down to a depth of 500 or 800 
meters, where CO2 binds permanently to the 
bedrock in the form of rocks.Environmental Sustainability
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 30Century cannot be sustainable without 
protecting the safety, health, and wellness 
of our most vital resource: our employees.  Social 
Responsibility
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 31Health and Safety
Priority of Best-In-Class Safety Performance 
At Century, nothing is more important than the health 
and safety of our employees and their families. 
They are the reason we take care of each other and 
perform our work with the highest safety standards 
in place. Teamwork gets us home, every day, because 
safety is our first priority. We strive for zero injuries 
and accidents, to foster systems and processes 
aimed to continuously improve our health and safety 
performance, and to integrate risk management into 
all aspects of our operations. 
Recognizing that this commitment is a shared 
responsibility, one of Century’s key tenets is the 
maintenance of and emphasis on our safety culture 
and the processes in place to support it. Employees 
are required to stop work when they recognize a 
potential hazard and report the potential hazard to 
the appropriate other members of their teams; we 
investigate all significant incidents at our facilities, 
according to internal policies and procedures and any 
applicable laws and regulations. We strive to prevent 
any recurrence of any such incidents. Each of the safety systems and processes that we 
have implemented and put into place at each of our 
operations has been designed to protect individuals 
from serious injury and death. 
We know that we must hold ourselves to the 
highest of standards and demonstrate our 
promise to keep ourselves and each other safe. 
We believe in the importance of emergency 
management training to ensure employees are 
able to respond to an array of incidents including 
fire response, confined space rescue, emergency 
medical response, HAZMAT response, man over-
board training, and AED/CPR training. We provide 
training and workshops on high-risk topics to aid  
in hazard recognition and hazard management for 
our employees.
Century Safety Data
Incidents 2018 2019 2020
Total Recordable Injury Rate 1.51 1.05 1.28
Days Away and Restricted Injury Rate 0.78 0.41 0.62
Fatalities 0 0 2Social Responsibility
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 32Active Safety Leadership
Beginning in 2021, we are conducting a 
Safety and Health leadership engagement 
activity at Mt. Holly, Sebree, and Hawesville, 
aimed at providing leadership tools to 
help us accomplish our Company’s safety 
vision. During this activity, department 
leaders actively discuss work practices, 
procedures, and improvement with workers. 
Active Safety and Health Leadership drives 
two-way communication and coaching 
throughout the organization. 
In recent years, our Nordural plant has engaged in 
a safety culture transformation, with an emphasis 
on front line management’s responsibility. We have 
implemented intensive training in hazard identification, 
leadership skills, and incident investigation, all of which 
have helped to increase personal knowledge and 
commitment and standards within the Company as 
well as improving work practices and habits. 
In November 2020, Century expanded its safety 
commitment by creating a new executive Health, Safety 
and Environmental Director role that reports directly to the 
COO. This person’s role is to continue to build upon and 
improve the existing health, safety, and environmental 
programs and management systems within the Company 
and integrate best practices across operations in the 
United States, Iceland, and the Netherlands. Century’s 
Health, 
Safety, and 
Sustainability 
PolicySocial Responsibility
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Health and Safety
Our goal is to maintain a safe work environment and culture 
through focus on and continued investment in our safety 
programs and risk reduction initiatives. Century’s Health, 
Safety, and Sustainability Policy  and other individual facility 
and internal policies set forth expectations designed to 
provide a safe work environment for all employees. 
Safety is everyone’s responsibility and we expect each of 
our employees to support our commitment to safety by 
working in compliance with all applicable safety laws and 
our company-wide and individual site policies. Leadership 
and employees work together on incident investigations 
to determine root cause and corrective actions. All of our 
operations have health and safety management systems 
in place. Our Nordural plant is certified to the ISO 45001 
Occupational Health and Safety Management system, an 
internationally recognized standard, which showcases its 
commitment to provide a safe and healthy workplace. 
At each of our facilities, we have a performance-linked 
incentive system for employees that considers safety and 
environmental factors. For our executive management 
team, we link payouts under our annual incentive 
plan to achievement of certain pre-established safety 
performance targets.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 33Century’s COVID-19 Response
The importance of Century’s approach to safety is 
underscored by our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Our employees understand that this global health crisis 
can only be mitigated and contained at our operations 
through shared responsibility and teamwork.
At the very beginning of the pandemic, we took 
aggressive proactive steps to protect our employees by 
implementing temperature checks at the front gate of 
our facilities, sanitizing 
all shared working 
areas, implementing 
and upholding a six-foot 
social distancing rule, 
and enforcing a strict 
facial covering policy. We 
also restricted business 
and personal travel for 
a period of time and 
facilitated remote work 
for employees whose 
jobs allow. 
During this time, to 
the extent possible at 
our operations, we are 
limiting close face-to-face 
interactions and conducting business meetings virtually 
whenever feasible. We have established a strict internal 
protocol for contact tracing. Through these efforts, we 
have been able to limit cases of COVID-19 amongst our 
employees. Employees receive continual training on our 
COVID-19 response as we adapt to the developments of  
the pandemic.Aluminum smelters must 
operate continuously, and 
therefore the majority 
of our employees have 
come to work throughout 
the entirety of the 
pandemic, ensuring 
that our operations can 
continue without any 
significant disruption.Social Responsibility
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 34Employee Health and Wellbeing
Century works to help employees ensure they are physically fit to perform the requirements of the job by 
conducting health screenings and by providing well-being services to our employees and their families. These 
well-being efforts supported by the Company include: 
•  Health screenings for incoming and existing 
employees at all operations
•  Beryllium health screenings in accordance with 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
(OSHA) regulatory standards at our U.S. locations
•  Physical fitness evaluations at all operations
•  Medical support and treatment on site at each of 
our operations 
•  Drug and alcohol testing program at each of our 
operations •  Hexavalent Chromium screenings and Crystalline 
Silica Screening per OSHA regulatory standards at 
our Kentucky operations
•  Employee financial assistance at all locations
•  Resources for any Family and Medical Leave Act 
(FMLA)/ Short-Term Disability (STD) claims at our 
U.S. locations
•  Seminars in the workplace regarding health and 
well-being
Heat Stress Safety and Monitoring Program at our U.S. Smelters
Each year, our employees at our U.S. smelters are faced with high temperatures and 
humidity, especially during the summer months. Through years of physical monitoring, 
risk and task evaluation and temperature monitoring, we have put in place heat stress 
programs at Mt. Holly, Hawesville, and Sebree. For example, at our Sebree plant, each 
summer, we provide a hydration program in which we hire individuals from the local 
community to distribute water and other hydration products to our employees across 
the facility. We also hire local emergency responders at Sebree to monitor at-risk 
employees throughout the workday in an effort to prevent any medical conditions  
that may arise due to heat stress. During this time, the emergency responder monitors 
blood pressure, pulse rate, pulse oximetry and temperature of the employee as well 
as his or her reaction and recovery time. We have a strict set of guidelines that help 
determine who may be at risk of suffering from heat stress symptoms. Social Responsibility
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 35At Century, our teams apply knowledge, 
experience, and best practices to find 
solutions and develop processes to meet 
market demand for primary aluminum. 
Our approximately 2,000 employees 
are motivated by our commitment to 
deliver consistent, high-quality aluminum 
products to our customers.United States 2018 2019 2020
Full 
TimeFemale 104 114 104
Male 1,574 1,590 1,540
Part 
TimeFemale 11 6 16
Male 25 31 26
Total Employees 1,714 1,741 1,686
Iceland 2018 2019 2020
Full 
TimeFemale 87 83 90
Male 446 425 431
Part 
TimeFemale 26 26 24
Male 39 36 36
Total Employees 598 570 581Netherlands 2018 2019 2020
Full 
TimeFemale 1 - -
Male 55 58 56
Part 
TimeFemale 8 9 8
Male 2 2 7
Total Employees 66 69 71
Our Employees 
and Human Capital Social Responsibility
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 36Diversity and Inclusion 
The Company is committed to promoting 
equal employment opportunity in all of 
our operations. It is the Company’s policy, 
that we do not tolerate discrimination 
or harassment in any form on the basis 
of race, color, religion, sex, sexual 
orientation, age, national origin, disability, 
veteran status or genetic information 
as defined in the Genetic Information 
Nondiscrimination Act of 2008, whether or 
not such discrimination violates law, and 
to comply fully with all laws prohibiting 
discrimination and promoting opportunity 
and advancement in employment. This 
policy extends to all aspects of employment 
opportunity including recruitment, hiring, 
compensation, benefits, promotion, 
transfer, layoff, recall, reduction in force, 
termination, retirement, placement, 
training and all other privileges, terms and 
conditions of employment.
Our Nordural plant has implemented the 
Equal Pay Standard 
ÍST85:2012 and has 
received Certification 
with the PwC Gold 
standard. The 
certification verifies that 
Nordural employees are 
paid salaries according 
to responsibility, expertise and work 
contribution, not gender or origin. ÍST85:2012Social Responsibility
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 37Attracting and Retaining 
Top Talent in Iceland
To attract talent in Iceland, 
we work with colleges 
and universities to invite 
students to attend plant 
tours at Nordural that 
showcase our production 
processes. We offer 
internships to give 
hands-on experience to 
students interested in 
craftsmanship. 
At Nordural, we also 
operate our own Heavy 
Industry School (HIS) 
with a curriculum that 
awards points towards the 
Icelandic school system. 
The HIS provides between 
15 to 17 students at a time 
with the opportunity to 
further their education. 
Since 2012, over 
160 students have 
graduated from the HIS 
and over 80% of those 
graduates still work for 
Nordural today.
Training and Education
Century is invested in providing our employees with education and 
training that supports them in their current roles and in their career 
advancement within the Company. To encourage the development of 
our employees, we offer a wide range of experiences that support and 
encourage our employees’ professional growth and continuous learning.
All incoming employees are required to participate in orientation and 
training programs. These extensive sessions introduce new employees to 
our environmental, health, and safety (EHS) policies and protocols, outline 
the employee’s role and responsibility for emergency preparedness and 
response, and risks associated with the employee’s work activities. All 
salaried employees also receive regular, mandatory training on the Code of 
Ethics and employee handbook, including discrimination and harassment 
training. This specific training reinforces the importance of our values and 
outlines our expectations 
for how employees should 
handle certain interactions, 
transactions, and business 
opportunities.
Employees may be required 
to participate in additional 
job-specific training for an 
average of three to five weeks 
at the onset of employment; 
this requirement varies 
based on the role and the 
past experience of the specific employee. Training subjects can include 
heat stress safety, molten metal safety, crane safety and operation, mobile 
equipment safety and operation, machine safety and operation, lock out-
tag out, and confined space entry procedures among other programs, 
as appropriate and applicable to the jobs and tasks that are part of such 
employee’s job description.Social Responsibility
Employee Training Subjects
Heat Stress Safety
Molten Metal Safety
Crane Safety and Operation
Mobile Equipment Safety and Operation
Machine Safety and Operation
Lock Out-Tag Out
Confined Space Entry Procedures
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 38Social Responsibility
We believe that proper training is key 
to ensuring our employees understand 
the risks and the challenges they 
may face in their specific roles at our 
facilities.
Our training is geared towards the 
roles that an employee is serving and 
the circumstances with which they 
may be faced. All of our employees 
are expected to complete on the job 
training regularly; such training varies 
by role and location. 
We offer a variety of continued 
education opportunities to equip 
our employees with the tools they 
need to succeed. For example, at our 
Sebree and Hawesville locations, we 
offer tuition reimbursement for any 
employee seeking to further his or her 
education up to the Masters level.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Training and Education
Training and development are 
overseen by Century’s Human 
Resources departments. Our training 
and development processes include 
ongoing conversations between 
managers and employees, centered 
on performance feedback and 
career development. All permanent, 
salaried employees are invited to a 
performance appraisal at least once 
a year. During the review, employees 
are provided with the opportunity to 
discuss their career aspirations with 
management and develop a plan of 
action to achieve their goals.Kentucky Employment Partnerships 
Century has partnered with local county officials in Hancock 
County, Kentucky to hire from the local community to 
support job growth. This partnership has provided a variety 
of employment opportunities over the years including hourly 
production positions, mechanics, electricians, supervisor 
roles, technicians, and engineers. 
Job fairs have been held at local career centers and 
community colleges to recruit local talent. Century works with 
local employment offices to advertise positions; we also use 
the power of social media advertising and rely on employee 
referrals. We participate in Kentucky’s Dislocated Workers 
Program, which focuses on getting dislocated workers back 
on the job after plant closings, layoffs, and other conditions. 
These partnerships have been instrumental to encourage 
investment and job growth in our surrounding community.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 39MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Labor Rights - Freedom of 
Association and Collective 
Bargaining
Approximately 67% of our 
workforce was covered by 
union representation in 2020. 
Approximately 86% of Nordural’s 
work force is represented by 
five labor unions, governed by a 
labor agreement that establishes 
wages and work rules for covered 
employees. All of Vlissingen’s 
workforce is represented by 
the Federation for the Metal 
and Electrical Industry (“FME”), 
a Netherlands’ employers’ 
organization for companies in 
the metal, electronics, electrical engineering, and plastic sectors. 
The FME negotiates working 
conditions with trade unions on 
behalf of its members, which, when 
agreed upon, are then applicable 
to all employees of Vlissingen. 
Approximately 58% of our U.S. 
based work force is represented by 
United Steel, Paper and Forestry, 
Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, 
Allied Industrial and Service 
Workers International Union. 
Mt. Holly employees are not 
represented by a labor union.
Our Plant Managers and HR 
Managers along with our Legal 
Team are ultimately responsible 
for overseeing labor relations. Our 
plants hold Labor/Management meetings regularly. During these 
meetings, management discusses 
the current state of the business 
and key performance indicators. 
The intent is to help employees 
understand the business and how 
they play a part in the success of 
the company.
Any employee with concerns or 
grievances related to freedom of 
association or collective bargaining 
can submit those anonymously 
through our independent third-
party reporting system, Ethical 
Advocate. We are not aware of 
any instances in which the right 
to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining was violated 
during 2020.Labor Rights
We recognize and respect our employees’ rights to freedom 
of association and to enter into collective bargaining 
arrangements. This is evidenced by the fact that in 2020, 
the majority of our employees participated in collective 
bargaining agreements and labor unions. Our Nordural labor 
agreement is effective through December 31, 2024. Our 
Vlissingen labor agreement expired on December 1, 2020. 
Since such time, we have been operating under the terms 
of the expired agreement while we engage in negotiations 
regarding the terms of a new agreement. Our Hawesville and 
Sebree labor agreements are scheduled to expire April 1, 
2026 and October 28, 2023, respectively. There were no labor 
disruptions in 2020 at any of our operations. Social Responsibility
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 40Human Rights
The respect and promotion of human rights is a fundamental 
value of the Company. We are dedicated to the protection of 
human rights as well as the prevention of human trafficking, 
child labor, and forced labor. Century is also committed to 
providing a workplace that is fair, equitable, and free from 
harassment of any kind. In April 2020, we published our new 
Human Rights Policy, setting out our values and expectations 
with respect to these issues and requiring full compliance 
with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules and 
regulations. Our Human Rights Policy works alongside our 
Code of Ethics as well as our Code of Ethics for Suppliers and 
Business Partners. Looking ahead to 2021, we aim to introduce 
training on our new Human Rights Policy to complement our 
annual training on Century’s Code of Ethics.
Our Company’s Human Rights Policy  
can be see here.Social Responsibility
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 41MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Human Rights - Non-Discrimination, Child Labor, 
Forced or Compulsory Labor
Our Code of Ethics , Human Rights Policy , and our 
Code of Ethics for Suppliers and Business Partners  set 
out our values and standards regarding human rights 
and the standards that we expect from those with 
whom we do business.
We are committed to promoting equal employment 
opportunity in all of our operations. All Century 
employees receive regular, mandatory training on 
the Code of Ethics which includes training on human 
rights, anti-discrimination and anti-harassment. 
We comply with all laws regarding child labor and 
forced or compulsory labor, primarily through 
careful vetting of all Century employees and human 
rights training of all Century employees, and by 
communicating our Code of Ethics for Suppliers 
and Business Partners  to our vendors and business 
partners. In 2020, we are not aware of any instances of 
any violations of laws regarding child labor and forced 
or compulsory labor.
Our Human Rights Policy  reiterates 
our commitment to a harassment free 
work environment. Century does not 
tolerate any form of harassment, which 
may include, but not be limited to: (a) 
jokes, insults, bullying, threats or other 
inappropriate actions involving a person’s 
race, color, gender, age, religion, national 
origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, 
citizenship, disability, veteran status, 
social/economic status or education; (b) 
unwelcome advances, verbal or physical 
conduct, or displaying objects or pictures, 
of a sexual nature; and (c) any conduct 
which may create a fearful or hostile 
work environment for a director, officer 
or employee of the Company. In 2020, we 
found no substantiated evidence of any 
such discrimination.Social Responsibility
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 42This report has been prepared in accordance 
with the GRI Standards: Core option.GRI Content 
Index
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 43GRI Content Index
GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GRI 101: Foundation 2016
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the org. Century Aluminum Company
102-2 Activities, 
brands, 
products, and 
servicesCentury Aluminum Company (Century or the Company) is a global producer of primary 
aluminum. Our principal corporate headquarters are in Chicago, Illinois. We own and 
operate three aluminum reduction facilities in the United States: one smelter in Hawesville, 
Kentucky (Hawesville), one in Robards, Kentucky (Sebree) and one in Mt. Holly, South 
Carolina (Mt. Holly). We also own and operate an aluminum smelter in Grundartangi, Iceland 
(Grundartangi). Our smelters produce value-added and standard grade aluminum products. 
At present, our primary aluminum annual production capacity is approximately 1,000,000 
tonnes per year (tpy). In addition to our primary aluminum facilities, we own and operate 
an anode production facility located in Vlissingen, Netherlands (Vlissingen). Anodes are 
consumed in the production of primary aluminum. Vlissingen supplies carbon anodes to our 
Grundartangi smelter while each of our smelters in the United States produces anodes at 
on-site facilities. 
102-3 Location of HQ One South Wacker Drive, Suite 1000, Chicago, IL 60606
102-4 Location of 
operationsUnited States  
Hawesville, KY; Sebree, KY; 
Mt. Holly, SCIceland  
GrundartangiNetherlands  
Vlissingen
102-5 Ownership and 
legal formOur common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ: CENX).
102-6 Markets served 2020 Revenues by Geography and/or by End Market
102-7 Scale of the org. 2020 Revenues, Capital Expenditure, Shareholders Equity
102-8 Info. on 
employees and 
other workersSee Social Responsibility, page 36 .
102-9 Supply chain See Our Company, page 17 .
102-10 Significant org. 
changes and its 
supply chainThere were no major acquisitions or structural changes during the  
reporting period.
102-11 Precautionary 
Principle ApproachThe Precautionary Principle is considered in the evaluation of our key material issues and 
opportunities and determined which sustainability topics were most critical to address.
102-12 External 
initiativesAmerican Primary Aluminum Association (APAA)  
European Aluminium Association 
102-13 Membership of 
AssociationsNordural is certified against the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Performance Standard 
for responsible production, sourcing, and stewardship of aluminum.
Grundartangi Memberships:  
• SI - the Federation of Icelandic Industries  
• Festa - Center for Sustainability  
• Green by Iceland  
•  Samál - Assoc. of Icelandic Aluminium 
ProducersVlissingen Memberships:  
•  International Responsible Business Conduct 
Agreement for the  
Metals Sector
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 44GRI Content Index
Strategy  
102-14 Statement from senior 
decision-makerSee Message from Our CEO & COO, page 4 .
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, 
and norms of behaviorSee Our Company, page 17 .
Governance 
102-18 Governance structure See Our Company, page 15 .
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups See Our Company, page 10 .
102-41 Collective bargaining 
agreementsSee Social Responsibility, page 40 .
102-42 Identifying and selecting 
stakeholdersSee Our Company, page 10 .
102-43 Approach to stakeholder 
engagementSee Our Company, page 10 .
102-44 Key topics and concerns 
raisedSee Our Company, page 11 .
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the 
consolidated financial 
statements2020 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and 
topic boundariesSee Our Company, page 11 .
102-47 List of material topics See Our Company, page 11 .
102-48 Restatements of information None
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2020 - December 31, 2020
102-51 Date of most recent report This is Century Aluminum Company’s first sustainability report.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the reportLeah Patterson: Leah.Patterson@centuryaluminum.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in 
accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core 
option.
102-55 GRI content index See Principles of Reporting, page 43 .
102-56 External assurance At this time, Century has decided to not seek external assurance for the report.
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 45TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
ANTI-CORRUPTION
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Our Company, page 18 .
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-2 Communication and training 
about anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresSee Our Company, page 17 .
ENERGY
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Environmental Sustainability, page 24 .
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within 
the org. See Environmental Sustainability, page 21 .
302-3 Energy intensity  See Environmental Sustainability, page 21 .
EMISSIONS
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach  See Environmental Sustainability, page 24 .
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct GHG emissions 
(Scope 1) See Environmental Sustainability, page 23 .
305-2 Energy-based indirect GHG 
emissions (Scope 2) See Environmental Sustainability, page 23 .
305-4 GHG emissions intensity  See Environmental Sustainability, page 23 .
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Our Company, page 18 .
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016
307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and 
regulationsSee Our Company, page 17 .
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Social Responsibility, page 33 .GRI Content Index
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 46GRI Content Index
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and 
safety management systemSee Social Responsibility, page 33 .
403-5 Worker training on 
occupational health and 
safetySee Social Responsibility, page 38 .
403-9 Work-related injuries See Social Responsibility, page 32 .
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Social Responsibility, page 39 .
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and 
transition assistance 
programsSee Social Responsibility, page 38 .
404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular 
performance and career 
development reviewsSee Social Responsibility, page 39 .
NON-DISCRIMINATION
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Social Responsibility, page 42 .
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination 
and corrective actions takenSee Social Responsibility, page 42 .
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Social Responsibility, page 40 .
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016
407-1 Operations and suppliers in 
which the right to freedom 
of association and collective 
bargaining may be at riskSee Social Responsibility, page 40 .
CHILD LABOR
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Social Responsibility, page 42 .
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 47GRI Content Index
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016
408-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents 
of child laborSee Social Responsibility, page 42 .
FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Social Responsibility, page 42 .
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016
409-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents 
of forced or compulsory 
laborSee Social Responsibility, page 42 .
SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Our Company, page 18 .
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016
419-1 Non-compliance with laws 
and regulations in the social 
and economic areaSee Our Company, page 17 .
COMPANY-SPECIFIC (NON-GRI) TOPICS
CLIMATE CHANGE
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach  See Environmental Sustainability, page 27 .
- Description of efforts to 
identify and manage risks 
and opportunities related to 
the impact of climate change See Environmental Sustainability, page 25 .
INNOVATION
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3Management Approach See Environmental Sustainability, page 30 .
- Description of initiatives for 
product and/or business 
model innovationsSee Environmental Sustainability, page 29 .
LOW-CARBON PRODUCTS
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1, 
103-2, 
103-3 Management Approach See Environmental Sustainability, page 30 .
- Description of low-carbon 
products and servicesSee Environmental Sustainability, page 29 .
CENTURY ALUMINUM
2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  | 48CENTURYALUMINUM.COM