Building a better future
2022 Ceridian ESG Report1. COVER PAGEContents
A message from our Co-CEOs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Business performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
2021 highlights   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Materiality   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Stakeholder engagement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  . 12
Our goals   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Governance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Trust  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Our people   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Tech for good  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Our communities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Environment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Sustainable Development Goals    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
SASB Standards Reference Index   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Appendix   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
About the report   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 492. TABLE OF CONTENTS
3
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportSASB index Our communities Our people Governance and trust ☰Our goals Tech for good Environment Appendix
Making work life better is our promise and 
our purpose, and today our dedication to 
doing so is stronger than ever  . The world has 
fundamentally changed these past two years, 
and there is a much greater appreciation for the 
impact everyone—as individuals, communities, 
companies, and nations—can have based on the 
choices we all make  . As we see it, organizations 
that choose to embrace their responsibility to 
the global community will succeed well into 
the future, and in ways that yield dividends far 
beyond the financial  .3. A LETTER FROM OUR CEOs 1/1
We are one of them.
In 2021, we sharpened our focus on 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
issues by establishing key pillars and setting 
measurable goals within them to drive our impact 
over time  . This approach supports long-term 
performance and value creation, allows us to more 
effectively mitigate risks and seize opportunities, 
and strengthens our ability to sustainably effect 
change  . These are the five pillars guiding our 
efforts today and into the future:
Governance and trust
We safeguard the trust given to us by our 
partners, our customers, and their employees  . 
That means upholding the highest standards 
of corporate governance and ethics, ensuring 
customer data is protected, and developing 
products that are reliable and effective  .
Our people
A diverse, inclusive, and equitable organization is 
a strong one, which leads to greater innovation, 
creativity, and productivity  . Persistent global 
challenges make it essential that our employees 
feel valued and safe  .
Tech for good
By innovating responsibly, and ethically harnessing 
the power of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine 
learning, our products can lead to better outcomes 
for organizations and their employees, and help 
reinforce the bonds between them  .Our communities
Giving back to the communities where we live 
and work to help make life better for the people 
within them is central to Ceridian’s approach to 
philanthropy and volunteering  .
Environment
Climate change poses a dire threat to the long-
term survival of humanity and the planet  . The 
responsibility to act rests upon everyone, and 
requires meaningful action from us and many 
others in the private sector  .
As a promise-driven, purpose-led global 
company, we believe in acting responsibly, 
operating sustainably, and contributing to the 
greater good  . We are aware of the impact we 
can have, and draw strength from the collective, 
united character of our more than 7,500 global 
colleagues  .
We invite you to read more about our ESG 
journey – and join us on it  .
“Our approach to ESG 
reflects our commitment 
to progress and the 
united character of 
our colleagues.”Leagh Turner David OssipDAVID OSSIP
Chair and Co-CEOLEAGH TURNER
Co-CEO
4
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportSASB index Our communities Our people Governance and trust ☰Our goals Tech for good Environment Appendix
“In 2021, we achieved 
two significant milestones: 
we exceeded $1 billion 
in total revenue and 5 
million active employees 
on the Dayforce platform, 
an increase of 21% year-
over-year.”
NOÉMIE HEULAND, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERBusiness performance
Our performance
Our vision to be the always-on people platform 
for the global workforce, coupled with our 
customer-driven innovation, puts us directly at 
the center of two large trends: the new world of 
work and the transition to cloud-based solutions 
that enable organizations to change and adapt 
to it . Our relentless customer focus, product 
vision, scale, and geographic reach give us great 
confidence in our ability to take full advantage 
of market dynamics and deliver strong, 
profitable growth  . As we continue to invest in 
Dayforce, our people, and our business, we 
know it all serves to strengthen the quantifiable 
value our customers have come to expect from 
us and to further our ability to deliver value  .Customers
Dayforce customers liveJoined S&P 500 and TSX30Acquired Adam HCM, Ascender, 
DataFuzion assets, and  Ideal in 2021NYSE/TSX Listing CDAY
96.8 %
total active global users on 
Dayforce and annual growthOverRevenue and financial data
Cloud recurring gross margin72.3 % (+110 bps)
Total revenue$1.02B  (+21.6 %)Dayforce recurring revenue and annual 
growth (excluding float)$596.9M  (+29 %)4. BUSINESS PERFORMANCE - 1/4
5,43415M (+21 %)2
Annual cloud 
retention rate3 5
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportSASB index Our communities Our people Governance and trust ☰Our goals Tech for good Environment Appendix
Leader in the 2021 Gartner® Magic 
Quadrant™ for Cloud HCM Suites for 
1,000+ Employee Enterprises
Innovation awards
Gartner Peer Insights Voice of the 
Customers' Choice Award and Leader 
for Critical Capabilities
TrustRadius “Most Loved” Award
CIPD People Management Awards: 
Best HR/L&D SupplierHuman Resources Director Asia
5 Star HR Software
Aite-Novarica Digital Wallet Impact 
Innovation Award—Dayforce Wallet
Leader in the Nucleus Research 
2021 Human Capital Management 
Value Matrix
American Payroll Association’s 
Showcase Standout Award for 
Emerging Software4. BUSINESS PERFORMANCE - 3/4
6
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportSASB index Our communities Our people Governance and trust ☰Our goals Tech for good Environment Appendix
AustraliaMauritius
New ZealandCanada
Germany
India  ChinaJapan
PhilippinesThailand
SingaporeUnited Kingdom
Ireland  
United States
MexicoWorkforce4. BUSINESS PERFORMANCE - 4/4
Total employees (as of 12/31/21)Globally North America APJ EMEA
7,462 4,477 1,846 1,1397
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportSASB index Our communities Our people Governance and trust ☰Our goals Tech for good Environment Appendix
2021 highlights
Our people
Tech for good0
material data breaches4 50%
of board of directors are women or people of color
Completed our first 
materiality assessmentESG disclosures aligned 
with SASB Standards
950More than
customers have chosen 
Dayforce Wallet
$1.1 million  in donations to families in need 49%
Launched Dayforce 
Talent IntelligenceNamed to  
the Bloomberg 
Gender-Equality 
Index (GEI)47Governance
and trust
Employee Net 
Promoter Score 
(eNPS)5 Representation 
of women in our 
workforce6 5. HIGHLIGHTS - 1/1
Completed first 
greenhouse 
gas inventoryThird-party assurance 
by Bureau VeritasOur communities
Environment8
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportSASB index Our communities Our people Governance and trust ☰Our goals Tech for good Environment Appendix6. MATERIALITY - 1/4
Importance to business successImportance to stakeholders  Low HighCeridian's 2021 Materiality Matrix
Employees/social
Trust/governance
Environment
HighSustainable procurementSupplier diversityEnergy and climate
Digital divideUniversal 
human rights
Freedom of 
expressionResponsible 
innovation and 
product use
Relationships with 
law enforcement 
agenciesTech for goodEmerging technology and ethicsBusiness continuity and resilienceFinancial wellnessData privacy and security
Ethical business practices
Future of work
Workforce development
Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion
Employee health, safety, 
and well-being
Water and waste
managementMateriality 
Materiality assessment
In 2021, Ceridian partnered with the nonprofit 
BSR to lead our first-ever third-party materiality 
assessment  . We sought to understand the key 
material environmental, social, and governance 
issues that are most important to our business 
success and our key stakeholders  . From the 
outset, it was imperative that a broad array of 
stakeholders was included to provide feedback 
and insight on this work and our direction 
as a company  . For that reason, the team 
conducted stakeholder interviews and surveys 
with customers, investors, non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs), including Oxfam America  
Ceridian is a member ofand the World Benchmarking Alliance , dozens 
of senior leaders at Ceridian, and hundreds 
of our employees globally  . In addition, BSR 
consulted a number of other sources in its 
assessment, including prominent reporting 
standards and frameworks such as the Value 
Reporting Foundation's SASB Standards, 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) , and the 
United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals  . Following the completion of the project, 
Ceridian evaluated the results and built a new 
ESG strategic framework with five key pillars 
and ten priority topics  .9
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportSASB index Our communities Our people Governance and trust ☰Our goals Tech for good Environment Appendix6. MATERIALITY - 2/4
Our pillars
2. Our people
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)
Employee wellness and engagement
Learning and leadership development1. Governance and trust
Ethics and transparency
Data security and privacy
Business continuity and resilience3. Tech for good
A new world of work
Responsible innovation and AI
4. Our communities
Ceridian Cares and volunteerism
5. Environment
Climate and energy
10
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportSASB index Our communities Our people Governance and trust ☰Our goals Tech for good Environment Appendix
Category: Employees/Social
Issue / Topic Definition
Employee health, safety, and well-beingCreating a physically and mentally healthy, safe, and secure 
working environment for all Ceridian employees
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Having a global representation of all genders, races, 
ethnicities, national origins, ages, sexual orientations, 
etc ., in the workforce; ensuring the strategic distribution 
of resources so that employees of all backgrounds have 
comparable outcomes; and maintaining an environment 
where employees feel welcomed, respected, supported, 
and valued to participate  . This also includes efforts to ensure 
equal opportunity, fair recruitment, and equal remuneration 
for employees, as well as ensuring the products and services 
are accessible to diverse customer needs and abilities  . 
Workforce development  Attract, engage, and retain global skilled talent by providing 
fair and equal opportunities for advancement across 
various socioeconomic backgrounds  . Provide robust, equal 
opportunities for training, certifications, etc  ., to enhance 
career development for all employees  . This includes 
empowering employees to achieve financial wellness  .
Digital divide Addressing the gap between people who do and do 
not have access to technology and technical training that 
can expand or provide access to greater economic and 
educational opportunities  . 
Financial wellness Use of Ceridian’s products and services to help customers 
advance pathways to income stability and equitable 
employment; support access to better employment for 
marginalized communities  .Issue / Topic Definition
Freedom of expression Ensuring Ceridian protects the right of free expression of its users around 
the world according to international human rights standards, in keeping 
with the company’s commitment to supporting the free and open 
exchange of thoughts and ideas  .
Universal human rights Ensuring Ceridian protects and respects universal human rights that 
are often expressed and guaranteed by law, in the forms of treaties, 
customary international law, general principles, and other sources of 
international law  . Human rights are rights inherent to all human beings, 
whatever their nationality, place of residence, sex, national or ethnic 
origin, color, religion, language, or any other status  . These rights are all 
interrelated, interdependent, and indivisible  .  
Future of work Helping employees and communities prepare for and adapt to the future 
of work, including job automation, artificial intelligence, the rise of the gig 
economy, and ongoing remote and hybrid work models that have been 
accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic  . This includes addressing the 
social impacts of decreased in-person interaction, the differing impact of 
virtual work across gender and culture, and expectations of employees in 
a rapidly evolving global work environment  . 
Tech for good Use of Ceridian products and services in a way that Makes Work Life 
Better™ and supports organizations that work to improve the lives of 
people worldwide, while avoiding potentially negative social impacts of 
its technology  . This includes philanthropic efforts of “giving where we’re 
living” to promote vibrant communities through Ceridian Cares  . 
Supplier diversity  Sourcing from diverse suppliers ,e  .g ., minority-owned, women-owned, 
small-business, etc  .6. MATERIALITY - 3/411
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportSASB index Our communities Our people Governance and trust ☰Our goals Tech for good Environment Appendix
Category: Trust/Governance
Issue / Topic Definition
Data privacy and security Customer, employee, and corporate data are being collected, 
analyzed, stored, shared, and transferred in a secure manner that 
upholds the right to privacy and protects against unwanted parties 
and unauthorized access, such as security threats and cyberattacks  . 
Security best practices are integrated into the way Ceridian manages 
personnel data, development life cycles, and data encryption to 
ensure all infrastructure and processes are secure   .
Emerging technology and ethicsEthical and human rights-respecting innovation, adoption of new 
technologies, and integration of new features over time, in particular 
with respect to artificial intelligence / machine learning, and 
discrimination and bias  . 
Business continuity and resilience Mitigating risks related to disruption of business continuity, operations, 
or services due to weather events, natural disasters, technical failures, 
programming errors, or cyberattacks at data-hosting facilities  . 
Ethical business practicesEnsuring the highest standards of corporate governance, ethics, 
and integrity wherever in the world Ceridian operates  . This includes 
working against corruption, such as extortion, bribery, and price 
fixing, and fulfilling tax responsibilities to the local economies in which 
Ceridian operates  . It also includes efforts to ensure the marketing and 
communication of products and services is honest, transparent, and fair  .
Relationships with law 
enforcement agenciesThis includes the management of requests for private or personal 
information from government or law enforcement agencies to 
determine their legitimacy and comply with local, regional, and 
national laws and standards, as well as international human rights 
standards  . This includes issues of security resulting from product sales 
to multiple national government customers  .Category: Trust/Governance
Issue / Topic Definition
Responsible innovation and 
product use Designing, developing, deploying, selling, and managing Ceridian products 
and services in ways that are both ethical and respect human rights  . This 
includes considering human rights issues in Ceridian’s product use policies 
and terms of service, undertaking customer due diligence and “Know Your 
Customer” acceptable / ethical practices, and providing reporting and 
remediation mechanisms for product misuse / abuse  .6. MATERIALITY - 4/4
Category: Environment
Issue / Topic Definition
Energy and climate Improving energy efficiency and using renewable energy sources to 
reduce GHG emissions in Ceridian operations, including buildings, data 
centers/colocation facilities, cloud service providers and employee travel  .
Sustainable procurement Including social and environmental factors into purchasing decisions 
(e .g ., toxic emissions of furniture, conflict minerals, modern slavery, 
etc .) and rigorous data collection and monitoring  .
Waste and water management Management of waste, recycling, compost, and water used for Ceridian’s 
various business operations, and their impacts on the local environment  . 12
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportSASB index Our communities Our people Governance and trust ☰Our goals Tech for good Environment Appendix
Stakeholder groups
As a large and fast-growing global organization, 
we have a wide array of stakeholder groups  . 
These include:
Some examples of how feedback from them is 
regularly solicited include monthly conversations 
with our industry analysts, quarterly email 
surveys of our employees, and annual 
stockholder engagement meetings with our 20 
largest investors  . Because transparency and 
accountability are so important to us, we are 
exploring the formation of a new stakeholder 
advisory panel this year that would inform 
our overall ESG strategy and would include 
representatives from some of the above groups  .7. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT - 1/1
Customers
Employees
Government agencies
Industry and financial analysts
NGOs
Partners
StockholdersStakeholder  
engagement
Our approach
At Ceridian, we define stakeholder engagement 
as our efforts to incorporate the opinions and 
perspectives of individuals and organizations 
that are impacted by our activities as a business 
into our overall corporate strategy  . We believe 
that they deserve an opportunity to express 
their point of view, and it is our responsibility 
to ensure their voices are heard  . Ultimately, 
learning from the unique insights and feedback 
of our stakeholders will make us a stronger, 
resilient business that can make a more positive 
difference for people, society, and the planet  .Our goals13
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Governance and trust Our people Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities8. OUR GOALS - 1/1
2021 2025 Goal
Governance         
and trustIncrease Dayforce's uptime to 99  .99% by 2025 99.97% 99.99%
Maintain zero material data breaches annually through 20257 0 0
Our people Achieve gender parity (50/50) in senior management roles globally by 20258 37.6% 50%
Increase underrepresented minority (URM) representation in management roles in the U  .S . by 50% by 20259 11.9% 17.8%
Maintain our employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) at or above 40 annually through 2025 47 40
Tech for good Increase the percentage of Dayforce customers using DEI Intelligence to 20% by 202510 20%
Our communities Increase the percentage of employees giving and volunteering to 50% by 2025 35% 50%
EnvironmentReduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions from Ceridian’s operations by 42% before 2030, 
compared to a 2019 baseline11 5,632 mtCO2e 
(-37%)12 7,067 mtCO2e 
(-21%)Our goals
At Ceridian, we believe that transparency and 
accountability are essential to any company’s 
success  . In that spirit, we developed a series of 
quantitative time-bound targets to propel our 
work on ESG issues and to give our stakeholders 
an opportunity to review and evaluate our 
performance over time  . Informed by our 
materiality assessment and directly connected 
to our new ESG strategic framework, these eight 
goals reflect our determination as an innovative, 
dynamic, and forward-thinking business  . We 
believe these goals are ambitious but realistic, 
and it is our intention to make steady progress 
toward achieving them over the next three years  .
Please refer to the Notes section of the report regarding updates to environmental data.2114
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportGovernance and trustOur goals ☰Our people Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
“Ethics is the backbone of any successful 
organization. At Ceridian, there is no higher 
priority than having the right policies and 
practices in place to maintain a culture 
of ethics and to preserve the trust of our 
partners and customers.”
WILLIAM E. M cDONALD, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, GENERAL COUNSEL, AND 
CORPORATE SECRETARY 9. GOVERNANCE - 1/4
Governance
Our approach 
Ceridian’s values are core to our culture, and 
the essence of our beliefs  . They are the basis 
for success, the guiding standards for how we 
run both as teams and as a global organization 
– and they include always acting ethically  . They 
provide a road map for delivering our brand 
promise  . We call these values “Our Way  .” Customer focus
We put the customer at the center of 
everything we do  . We deliver quantifiable 
value through actionable insights  .
Shared ambition
We win, learn, and grow together  . We’re 
individually and collectively accountable 
and empowered  .
Agility
We are a global enterprise company with the 
heart of a start-up that embraces innovation, 
doesn’t fear change, and values adaptability  .
Equity
We are building a culture of diversity, 
inclusion, and belonging  . We ensure all 
employees – of any race, ethnicity, age, 
gender, sexual orientation, identity or 
expression, religion, or ability status – can 
achieve their full potential  .
Optimism
Optimism drives success  . Preparation leads to 
knowledge, knowledge leads to confidence, 
and confidence leads to optimism  .
Transparency
We are open, honest, and respectful  .15
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportGovernance and trustOur goals ☰Our people Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
We aim to reflect these values in everything 
we do, including through the policies and 
procedures we adopt as a business  . For 
example, the Ceridian Code of Conduct reflects 
these values and sets the standards for how 
Ceridian operates on a daily basis  . We want to 
create a positive experience for our employees, 
customers, and partners, and abiding by the 
Ceridian Code of Conduct is integral to that  . We 
are committed to acting ethically and conducting 
business in compliance with all applicable 
laws, and our ethics program addresses our 
responsibilities in the following way:
In addition to our Code of Conduct, we have 
policies, standards, and guidelines to ensure 
our employees and business partners conduct 
business ethically  . A list of policies is included in 
the Appendix  . Ceridian completed its regular review and update of its Anti-Corruption Policy that applies globally and 
reflects our commitment to always acting professionally, fairly, and with integrity in all of our business 
dealings  . We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and require compliance with all 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in all markets and jurisdictions in which we operate  .
Our Board of Directors adopted an updated Corporate Delegation of Authority, and each of our subsidiary 
entities adopted regional Business Approval Matrices for each of our major geographic regions, ensuring 
that our internal controls over decision-making remain robust in the face of our rapid global expansion  .
We reviewed and refreshed our Records Retention Policy as part of our commitment to managing our 
information to better enable us to improve processes and products  . The policy was formally adopted 
earlier this year and helps us to run our business efficiently and effectively, while also ensuring we 
comply with all applicable laws and regulations  .
We conducted an in-depth review of sanctions-related compliance activities and developed a formal 
written Sanctions Compliance Policy  . This policy was adopted earlier this year in order to better ensure 
that we continue to comply with applicable economic and trade sanctions that prohibit dealings with 
certain countries, regions, and persons  .9. GOVERNANCE - 2/4
Our individual responsibility
Responsibilities to each other
Responsibilities to our customers and 
business partners
Responsibility to our communities
Responsibility to our stockholdersIn 2021, we continued to review and refresh certain corporate policies in response to our expanding 
global business and evolving best practices  . In the past year:
16
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportGovernance and trustOur goals ☰Our people Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities9. GOVERNANCE - 3/4
“Transparency, accountability, and metrics 
are all essential to sound corporate 
governance. By developing a new strategic 
framework and setting measurable goals, 
Ceridian is taking a meaningful step forward 
on its ESG journey.”
DEBORAH FARRINGTON, CHAIR OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND 
NOMINATING COMMITTEE Board of directors
Board composition
10
total members
59
average age 
of directors4.2
years' average board tenureof board committees are fully comprised of 
independent directors100 %
of board committees are 
chaired by women25%
new directors over 
the past 5 years650%
are women or people of color80%
are independent17
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportGovernance and trustOur goals ☰Our people Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Stockholder engagement
Stockholder engagement is a vital part of 
our oversight efforts and good corporate 
governance practices  . Our Board continues to 
value stockholder input and makes an effort 
to incorporate the feedback received from 
stockholders directly into its decision-making  . 
Following our 2021 Annual Meeting, in order 
to understand the executive compensation, 
corporate governance, and ESG concerns of our 
stockholders, we reached out to stockholders 
holding approximately 75% of the outstanding 
common stock of the company as of June 30, 
2021, to offer meetings with both the chair of 
our Compensation Committee and chair of 
our Corporate Governance and Nominating 
Committee  . Ultimately, both committee chairs 
participated in 12 meetings with stockholders,  
holding approximately 57% of the outstanding 
common stock of the company as of June 30, 
2021  . In addition, the chair of our Corporate 
Governance and Nominating Committee and/
or management also separately met with 
stockholders holding approximately 21% of the 
outstanding common stock of the company as 
of June 30, 2021, to specifically discuss ESG-
related matters  . ESG oversight
The Board’s Corporate Governance and 
Nominating Committee provides oversight of 
Ceridian’s policies and programs on issues 
of overall corporate governance, social 
responsibility, and environmental sustainability  . 
It is committed to best-in-class governance, 
and it is highly engaged in ensuring that 
Ceridian creates long-term value for all of its 
stakeholders  . On a quarterly basis, its members 
receive updates about the company’s ongoing 
ESG efforts and provide direct feedback and 
guidance to leadership about the path ahead  .Board committee structure Areas of expertise
Corporate finance
C-Suite or senior management leadership
Cybersecurity
Enterprise risk management
ESG
Financial literacy
Global business background
Human resources and talent management
Industry background
Mergers and acquisitions
Public company board service
Strategic transformation leadership
Technology or software experienceAcquisition and finance
Audit
Compensation
Corporate governance and nominating
9. GOVERNANCE - 4/418
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportGovernance and trustOur goals ☰Our people Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Trust 
Data security
Nothing is more important to Ceridian than the 
protection of our customers’ data, and 2021 
was a year of strong performance by our data 
security team  . Under the leadership of our new 
chief information security officer, cybersecurity 
funding was increased to support a zero-trust 
security architecture to secure the enterprise 
and address the large and ever-growing number 
of attack vectors  . In addition, we implemented a 
series of tiered redundancy measures to ensure 
that all threats are stopped and our customers' 
data remains safe and protected  . Importantly, 
Ceridian’s defense in depth (DiD) posture was 
also strengthened in key areas:We actively migrated our infrastructure and 
application platforms to modern cloud technology 
in order to enhance our micro-segmentation and 
zero-trust networking principles  .
We implemented new privileged account 
management functionality to further enhance the 
security and monitoring of those who require 
access to sensitive information  .By taking these steps, growing our team by more 
than 60% (including mergers and acquisitions) 
in 2021, and investing more than 1% of total 
revenue in our data security program that same 
year, we were able to prevent all third-party 
attacks from becoming material data breaches  .
In addition, the cybersecurity ratings company 
BitSight gave Ceridian a score of 780, placing us 
in their advanced tier  .For 2022, Ceridian’s data security priorities 
include expanding our team by an additional 
30%, building on our commitment to protecting 
customer trust, enhancing product security, and 
securing the global enterprise  .
We are confident that planned initiatives in the 
following areas will drive future performance:
of revenue invested annually 
in security programsMore than
1%Cloud security and assurance testing
Security operations and automation
Global network security and integration
Governance, risk, and compliance capabilitiesOur ISO 27001 certification had no major or 
minor nonconformities
Our NIST certification had no controls that 
were considered not met
Our SOC 2 Type 2 audit report had no 
exceptions found
ESG GOALS | Governance and trust 2021 2025 Goal
Maintain zero material data breaches annually through 202513 0 0↗ 
For additional information, read more 
about our overall data security strategy  
or our  Information Security Statement  .10. TRUST - 1/319
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportGovernance and trustOur goals ☰Our people Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Privacy
In 2021, we strengthened our privacy practices 
and further ingrained the importance of data 
protection into everything we do  . This started 
with rolling out a new company-wide privacy 
training program, which more than 95% of 
our employees completed  . To enhance our 
already strong compliance capabilities in the 
APJ region, we also expanded the utilization 
of our global privacy management program 
to Excelity, which was acquired in the mid-
2020  . In addition, we launched a multi-year 
process of incorporating technology and 
automation to support our global compliance 
efforts through the deployment of a privacy 
management platform that will enable us to 
better understand data flows and assist with 
compliance and risk management  . In the EMEA 
region, we began to update our agreements 
with clients, vendors, and partners with the 
new EU Standard Contractual Clauses, which 
provides for heightened protection to personal 
data transferred from countries in the European 
Union to other jurisdictions  .
In June and December , we released our first 
semiannual Law Enforcement Request Reports, 
which document all inquiries Ceridian receives for 
personal information (PI) from law enforcement 
agencies around the world  . Ceridian does not 
voluntarily provide any customer information to 
governments, and it received no such requests in 
2021  . Last year, Ceridian also became a member Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM)
In 2021, Ceridian took a series of actions to 
successfully manage risk across our growing 
global footprint  . This included appointing our 
first-ever senior vice president for enterprise 
risk management (ERM) to lead this effort, who 
has spearheaded better organizational design 
and greater maturity of the program  . In addition, 
we completed a more comprehensive annual 
risk assessment of the 52 functional areas of 
our business, which generated an in-depth risk 
register that integrated the effects of climate 
change and other sustainability risks for the first 
time . We also transitioned our ERM program to 
a continuous model that utilizes a consistent risk 
taxonomy and a more streamlined risk scoring 
and rating system  .  
For 2022, we will launch a global ERM reporting 
regime that will include a redesigned risk module, 
greater use of automation, more proactive and 
comprehensive assessments of risk reduction 
initiatives, and strong integration into our overall 
corporate strategy  . of the Centre for Information Policy Leadership 
(CIPL) , a global privacy and data policy think tank 
that develops global solutions and best practices 
for privacy and responsible use of data to enable 
the modern information age  .
For 2022, we will continue to build privacy 
capability throughout our fast-growing 
enterprise  . Our Global Policy Office will 
work in close partnership with Product and 
Technology and other departments to create 
additional privacy functionalities and build 
privacy considerations into offerings and 
business processes  . We will ensure that our 
customers continue to receive the highest level 
of compliance in a regulatory environment that 
is experiencing a substantial increase in new 
privacy and data laws  . We will also strengthen 
our ethical data use and AI governance, which 
will include the external publication of a new set 
of guiding AI ethics principles  .10. TRUST - 2/3
↗ 
For additional information, please read 
more about our overall privacy strategy , 
our Global Privacy Statement , our Cookie 
Statement , and our Biometric Statement  .↗ 
For additional information, please 
read more about our Enterprise Risk 
Management framework  .
20
2022 Ceridian ESG ReportGovernance and trustOur goals ☰Our people Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
AI ethics
The pandemic accelerated a transition to a new 
world of work in which artificial intelligence 
plays a profoundly important role for leaders 
looking to recruit, retain, and inspire top 
talent  . At Ceridian, we believe that developing 
and deploying products with this powerful 
technology requires us to maintain the highest 
degree of integrity and accountability  . We took 
several steps in 2021 to advance our AI ethics 
framework as a business  . We hired our first-
ever chief data officer, who is working closely 
with the chief privacy officer on establishing 
greater AI governance measures this year  . At 
our annual Product and Technology Summit, 
internal and external speakers highlighted 
the importance of strong AI ethics practices 
to our ongoing work  . Critically, Ceridian has 
also developed a Deidentification Services 
program that will remove direct identifiers, 
transform indirect identifiers, and combine 
unique element values to reduce the risk of Business resilience
Few years in recent memory held more 
uncertainty for businesses than 2021  . From the 
ongoing pandemic to extreme weather events 
and massive supply chain issues, these disruptions 
required leaders and their organizations to be 
flexible, dynamic, and proactive in anticipating 
and planning for difficult-to-predict challenges  . 
Ceridian was no exception, and because our 
approach to business continuity is embedded 
in our ERM program, we maintained a high 
level of performance and low levels of service 
interruptions and quality degradations for our 
customers  . To achieve this, last year our Business 
Resilience team completed 45 Business Impact 
Assessments, 26 Business Continuity Plans and, 
10 Disaster Recovery Exercises, and successfully 
responded to 19 natural disaster-related incidents 
and threats around the world  .
For 2022, we plan to grow the size of our 
Business Resilience team to complete a robust 
gap assessment for our current resilience program 
and to launch a new Disaster Recovery Project 
to inventory, standardize, and update existing 
business and disaster recovery plans  .
10. TRUST - 3/3
reidentifiability and ensure that no identifiable 
data is ever used for AI/ML or non-ML 
development purposes  .
In 2022, we are further strengthening that 
program with a new deidentified data lake, which 
will serve as the center point to provide data to 
authorized Ceridian users, as well as become 
the primary data source for developing AI/ML 
and non-ML algorithms  . This year, we will also 
implement reusable employee attribute and 
organization attribute data sets to further develop 
the employee and organization algorithms that 
power time series forecasting and scalable 
MLOps for our upcoming predictive analytics 
offerings beginning in 2023  . Last, we will launch 
a centralized metadata management solution that 
will be used to track data assets in the analytical 
data ecosystem and to ensure greater control of 
data dictionaries, data lineage, and data access 
privileges to our data governance functionalities  . 
ESG GOALS | Governance and trust 2021 2025 Goal
Increase Dayforce’s Uptime to 99  .99% by 2025 99.97% 99.99%21
Our people
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities11. OUR PEOPLE - 1/10
“In a rapidly changing and dynamic work 
environment, we know that creativity, 
understanding, and flexibility are essential 
to ensuring that our employees are given 
the best opportunity to thrive.”
MICHELLE BONAM, VICE PRESIDENT, ORGANIZATIONAL EFFECTIVENESSOur people 
A new world of work
For Ceridian, the rapid acceleration into a new 
world of work has encouraged our leadership 
to think big and be bold  . That is especially true 
for how we can best support the experiences 
of our people and genuinely make work life 
better for them  . In 2021, Ceridian formed 
a new Employee Experience organization 
with a mandate to implement programs and 
practices that would improve worker outcomes 
and bolster productivity and innovation  . Led 
by a new vice president for organizational 
effectiveness, this team is implementing a 
three-year strategy that includes investigating 
new programs in 2022 centered around 
Connections, Flexibility, Collaboration & 
Communication and Recognition  . The group will 
also be piloting programs and policies targeted 
at improving productivity and efficiency by 
affording employees increased flexibility with 
their work/life environment to better meet the 
needs of our growing workforce  . The Employee 
Experience team is unveiling Employee 
Connection Committees with a revised charter 
to bolster camaraderie and engagement in 
an increasingly virtual-first era  . They will be 
introducing a revamped global rewards and 
recognition program to foster both peer-to-peer 
recognition as well as functional recognition of 
employees demonstrating Our Way values in 
their daily interactions  .Key metrics
Work life flexibility rate83%eNPS47
Employee retention rate85%22
Our people
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Performance management 
In 2021, we added more rigor and structure to 
our performance management process  . This 
included ensuring that all individual goals were 
directly connected to larger functional and 
organizational goals and introducing performance 
touch points throughout the year  . We achieved 
an 72% participation rate across all performance 
management activities, including touch points, 
performance appraisals, and goal setting  .
Recognizing that Our Way values mattered 
so greatly to our collective success, we also 
elected to integrate them into our performance 
management activities  . This aligned the entire 
organization with our values in a measurable way, 
and ensured they would become part of regular 
conversations between managers and their teams  .
For 2022, we will include more coaching, skill 
building, development-focused conversations, 
and expanded pathways to higher-value work  . 
This includes setting an annual target of 85% 
participation in performance management 
activities  . In addition, we are requiring managers 
and direct reports to co-develop individualized, 
actionable plans so employees can more 
effectively achieve their long-term career goals  .Talent planning 
In 2021, we improved our talent planning 
process to increase the engagement and 
retention of Ceridian’s top talent and reinforced 
our existing succession plans to reduce any risks 
to business continuity  . This included conducting 
9-box assessments for over 55% of our more 
than 7,000 employees globally  . We plan to 
complete the remainder early in the first half 
of 2022  . In addition, in 2021 we launched our 
inaugural Emerging Leaders program—an in-
depth training of more than 200 high-potential 
employees who aspire to more-senior positions 
inside the company in the coming years  .Pay equity
At Ceridian, we believe in equal pay for equal 
work  . In 2021, we partnered with Mercer to 
conduct a gender pay equity analysis of our 
workforce in Canada, Mauritius, the United 
Kingdom, and the United States  . We also 
conducted a race and ethnicity pay equity 
analysis of our workforce in the United 
States  . This included evaluating base salary, 
total compensation, and annual grants of 
Ceridian stock  . The analysis controlled for 
relative experience, service at Ceridian, job 
grade, job function, job title, department, 
supervisory responsibilities, incentive, role 
history, performance, and location, among 
other factors  . Following the assessment and 
corresponding market adjustments, there is less 
than 1% disparity between what women and 
men earn globally, and less than 1% disparity 
between what white and non-white employees 
earn in the United States  . There was not a 
significant gap between any other ethnicities 
in the United States  . We are committed to 
resolving any disparities in how we pay our 
employees of any gender or ethnicity  . We 
will conduct another analysis in the second 
half of 2022 and intend on doing so regularly 
thereafter to make any necessary adjustments 
to preserve our commitment to this principle  . 
We plan for our entire global workforce to be 
included in future assessments  . 11. OUR PEOPLE - 2/10
23
Our people
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Health and safety
In 2021, Ceridian appointed its first-ever global 
head of Workplace Health and Safety, who 
is responsible for all of Ceridian’s health- and 
safety-related activities  .
As we enter the third year of the pandemic, the 
primary focus of this work remains ensuring that 
all necessary policies and procedures are in 
place at our facilities to protect our employees, 
customers, and partners from COVID-19 
infection  . This includes implementing a policy 
for vaccination, testing, masking, and physical 
distancing that aligns with both government 
requirements and best practices globally  .
In 2021, we established 10 Health & Safety 
committees as we began to reopen our offices  . 
These are tasked with completing inspections, Wellness Day
As the coronavirus pandemic entered its 
second year, so did the anxiety and stress that 
has dominated the lives of billions of people 
around the world  . This was compounded by 
the uncertainty and upheavals that many faced 
at work  . To Help alleviate these challenges, 
and lean into the conversation around mental 
health, in 2021 Ceridian created our first-ever 
Wellness Day last April  . On this day, our entire 
global workforce was encouraged to take a 
day off together – away from email, calls, and 
meetings – to rest, recuperate, and recharge  . 
We are continuing this practice in 2022 with two 
Wellness Days  .Benefits
Benefits are an essential part of how Ceridian 
makes work life better for our employees and 
their loved ones in ways that are relevant to 
their personal life experiences  . We provide a 
wide range of compensation and benefits that, 
while varying by region, consider the bigger 
picture of life outside work, including annual 
bonuses, equity awards, a global employee 
stock purchase program, retirement savings 
plans, healthcare and insurance benefits, health 
savings and flexible savings spending accounts, 
unlimited time away from work, employee 
assistance programs, and tuition reimbursement  .submitting accident reports, implementing and 
refining regional policies and practices, and 
other local safety-related activities  . We also 
created a Global Workplace Health & Safety 
Steering Committee, which oversees employee 
involvement and training, review of risks and 
incidents, and evaluation of program effectiveness 
and processes  . The committee is composed of 
senior leadership from several departments, 
including Employee Relations, Facilities, Legal, 
and Human Resources, among others  . For 2022, 
we have set a bold plan to further expand our 
safety footprint across our global operation  . We 
will also implement key performance indicators 
(KPIs) to help measure the performance of our 
overall program and to identify where and how 
improvements can be made  .11. OUR PEOPLE - 3/10
24
Our people
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Learning and leadership 
development
In 2021, we hired a new head of Learning 
and Leadership Development to advance our 
workforce development programming to better 
meet the needs and expectations of our dynamic 
and fast-growing team  . This investment led to the 
creation of Ceridian University’s School of Learning 
and Leadership Development, which includes 
three new major bodies of work: Professional 
Skills Curriculum, Core Leadership Development 
Programming, and Strategic Leadership 
Development Programming  .
Professional Skills Curriculum will include 
professional and career skills courses for 
employees to support their delivery of business 
objectives while strengthening their contribution 
to Ceridian’s growth and success  .
Core Leadership Development Programming will 
include programs that provide skill building and 
foundational tools for people leaders at specific 
levels of job and functional responsibility  .
Strategic Leadership Development Programming 
will include invitation-only programs designed 
to help Ceridian’s talent with addressing 
the business needs of the future including 
organizational business acumen, cross-
functional operational knowledge, customized 
development plans, and strategic thinking  . 
These will become available to our employees 
starting in April 2022  .Over
35,000
participating employeesNearly
7,000
hours of digital learning and 
leadership development 11. OUR PEOPLE - 4/1025
Our people
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities11. OUR PEOPLE - 5/10
“We are deeply committed 
to creating equitable 
opportunities for all 
employees, and we work 
every single day to make 
progress and deliver on 
that promise.”
DONNEBRA M cCLENDON, VICE PRESIDENT, 
GLOBAL DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSIONWe established a company-wide Global Diversity 
Advisory Council that provides insight on and 
direct feedback to our senior leadership, including 
our vice president for Global Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion, as they develop and implement DEI-
related programming and policies  .
We formed a partnership with Blue Ocean Brain, 
a diversity and inclusion educational platform 
that individualizes learning experiences for 
employees at all levels across all regions globally  . 
This unlocked unlimited access to over 75,000 
micro-learning sessions for our workforce  . 
We also formed a School of Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion inside our brand-new Ceridian 
University  . This collaborative empowers learners 
with a values-centric curriculum that balances 
cognitive development and critical thinking skills  . 
By combining leading-edge business concepts 
and strategies, students now have access to 
a comprehensive library designed to turn 
knowledge and awareness into action  . 
Like many organizations, we recognize that 
much more needs to be done—and we are 
fundamentally committed to learning more and doing better  . To meet that challenge and deliver 
tangible results for our colleagues, we have an 
aggressive strategy for 2022 and beyond  .
Earlier this year, we introduced a new 
leadership development program that is 
designed to address the unique challenges 
that underrepresented minority (URM) 
employees face  . This 16 week course includes 
executive coaching with a licensed psychologist 
specializing in addressing racial and 
environmental trauma charged by stereotypes, 
microaggressions, and myths of educational 
and leadership incompetence  . In addition, the 
program includes mentoring and sponsorship 
by senior leaders to address systemic barriers 
uniquely experienced by underrepresented 
minorities in the workplace  .
As a further demonstration of Ceridian’s 
commitment to equity, later this year we will 
announce the formation of partnerships with 
select historically Black colleges and universities 
(HBCUs) across the United States to recruit and 
support minority talent in our workforce  .      Eliminating bias in all forms in leadership practices      Making additional investments in career development      Creating a more inclusive workplace culture
1
2
3
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Programs and partnerships 
Ceridian values diversity and aims to foster a 
culture that respects and celebrates everyone  . 
We see this as intrinsic to a positive employee 
experience, and added "Equity" as an Our Way 
value last year  . As part of our journey to become 
more inclusive and equitable, our organization 
took several steps in 2021 to ensure that all 
employees feel both valued for their talents and 
free to be their authentic selves at work  .
We launched two global diversity and inclusion 
surveys to further understand the lived 
experiences of our colleagues and how we 
could best support them  . The survey results led 
us to prioritize three key areas:26
Our people
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Employee level Female Male
Senior management
Management and above
Tech
All employees
Employee level Female Male
Senior management
Management and above
Tech
All employeesEmployee level Female Male
Senior management
Management and above
Tech
All employees37.6%
35.9%62.4%
64.1%56.6%
54.9%63.1%
58%51.1%
50.6%43.4%
45.1%36.9%
42%48.9%
49.4%
28.4% 71.6%
55.1%
56.7%
49.8%44.9%
43.3%
50.2%11. OUR PEOPLE - 6/10
Representation | All active employees
Data excludes Ascender and Excelity2021
2020
201927
Our people
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Representation | U.S. Active employees11. OUR PEOPLE - 7/10
American Indian or Alaska Native Asian Black or African American Hispanic or Latino
Employee level 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021
Senior management — — — 2.4% 4.7% 12.8% 2.4% 4.7% 7.0% 2.4% 1.6% —
Management and above 1.0% 1.1% 0.6% 5.6% 5.9% 10.2% 7.2% 7.2% 6.7% 4.9% 4.5% 4.5%
Tech 0.3% 0.1% 0.2% 12.3% 13.2% 17.3% 20.5% 19.1% 16.6% 3.3% 4.1% 4.5%
All employees 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% 10.3% 10.5% 10.8% 14.9% 14.6% 13.9% 5.5% 5.7% 5.9%
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Multiracial White No answer
Employee level 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021
Senior management — — — 2.4% 3.1% 2.3% 90.2% 81.3% 74.4% — 4.7% 3.5%
Management and above — — — 1.3% 1.7% 1.5% 79.7% 76.9% 73.4% 0.3% 2.8% 3.0%
Tech 0.3% 0.4% 0.4% 2.4% 2.5% 2.9% 60.1% 58.9% 56.0% 0.9% 1.9% 2.2%
All employees 0.4% 0.3% 0.4% 2.2% 2.4% 2.4% 65.8% 64.3% 64.5% 0.7% 1.9% 2.0%28
Our people
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
ESG GOALS | Our people 2021 2025 Goal
Achieve gender parity (50/50) in senior management roles globally by 202514 37.6% 50%
Increase URM representation in management roles in the U  .S . by 50% by 202515 11.9% 17.8%YOUnity groups 
In 2021, we expanded the number of our 
employee resource groups, called YOUnity 
groups, from six to nine, adding the Native 
and Indigenous Peoples Alliance, the Ceridian 
Parents Network, and the Asia Pac Network  .11. OUR PEOPLE -9/1029
Our people
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Awards and recognition11. OUR PEOPLE - 10/10
Engagement 
No company can be successful unless its 
employees feel motivated and engaged  . This is 
especially true in a new world of work, and at 
a time when individuals and their families are 
facing such considerable changes and challenges 
resulting from the pandemic  . With engagement 
rooted in emotion that can change quickly, 
accurate and reliable sentiment data is critical 
to the success of any engagement strategy  . At 
Ceridian we regularly utilize our own Dayforce 
Engagement technology to conduct pulse surveys 
and calculate our employee Net Promoter Score 
(eNPS)  . On a scale ranging from –100 to +100 with 
+30 as a benchmark for excellence, this data point 
measures how likely employees are to recommend 
us as a place to work, and we are proud to have 
scored a +47 last year  . As we continue to integrate 
employees from recently acquired companies, 
we have set a goal of maintaining our eNPS at or 
above 40 through 2025  .
ESG GOALS | Our people
Maintain our employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) at or above 40 annually through 202516 
30
Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
customers have chosen 
Dayforce WalletMore than12. TECH FOR GOOD - 1/3
“No employee is ‘healthy’ without the ability 
to meet their everyday needs. Employee 
wellness and financial wellness are 
inextricably linked, and Dayforce Wallet was 
designed to help our customers offer financial 
flexibility to employees and their families 
without any interest or lending fees.”
ABHI AGRAWAL, VICE PRESIDENT, PRODUCT MANAGEMENT FOR CERIDIAN 
DAYFORCE WALLETTech for good
Product innovation
Dayforce Wallet
The new world of work requires employers 
to be dynamic and creative in order to attract 
and retain the talent they need  . Dayforce 
Wallet is the type of innovative solution that 
helps our customers do just that, and last year 
saw tremendous growth and adoption of the 
product  . In 2021, more than 950 customers 
chose to start offering it to their employees, 
with more than 400 already live on the product  . 
An average of 34% of eligible employees for 
those customers registered, with a registration 
rate of greater than 50% for our top quartile of 
tenured customers  .
During this time of unprecedented labor 
tightness, the benefits to customers are clear  . 
Employers who offered Wallet in 2021 saw a 
21% reduction in 90-day attrition rates and a 
15% decrease in time to fill open positions—all 
in one of the most competitive labor markets in 
decades  . Critically, the value-add for employees 
is also significant, providing individuals with 
faster access to their earned pay  . This enables 
families to cover both everyday expenses as 
well as urgent or unplanned costs that come up 
before their traditional pay-day  . Last year, active 
users chose the Dayforce Card for an average 
of more than 25 transactions per month, demonstrating that the Wallet is acting as a 
primary financial vehicle for those consumers  . 
Dayforce Wallet is serving an important need 
for these consumers – providing access to 
earnings and flexibility to manage their finances  . 
In 2022, Ceridian will launch the next evolution 
of Dayforce Wallet with further enhancements in 
automating how workers receive payments, and 
savings features that will allow users to set aside 
funds to achieve specific savings goals, further 
helping their financial wellness  .
95031
Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Dayforce Talent Intelligence 
In 2021, Ceridian announced Dayforce Talent 
Intelligence, a powerful suite of transformative 
talent management solutions powered by 
artificial intelligence and machine learning  . 
Using AI in conjunction with disparate data sets 
to allow organizations to evaluate data more 
efficiently, Dayforce Talent Intelligence offers 
targeted matching of people to opportunities for 
faster and more accurate talent decisions  .
Additionally, Dayforce Talent Intelligence 
objectively measures workforce demographics 
to create actionable insights that can be used 
to identify inequity in everything from payroll to 
promotion opportunities and help employers 
create actionable policy changes  . This 
technology enables fair, equitable, and efficient 
talent decision-making, while measuring the 
effectiveness of diversity, equity, and inclusion 
efforts  . Integration of this technology into our 
Recruiting, Onboarding, Learning, Performance 
Management, Compensation, Engagement, and 
Succession Planning modules began in 2021 
and is a top priority  .
In the near term, we plan to roll out the 
following features in our Dayforce Recruiting 
product that utilize Talent Intelligence to 
create more efficient, accurate, and fair candidate experiences: advanced candidate 
communication including SMS and chatbot 
Quick Apply options, screening and matching 
intelligence, and candidate job alerts  . We will 
measure the success of these features with KPIs 
around reduction in time-to-fill open positions 
and increased retention  . We will continue 
to expand our Dayforce Talent Intelligence 
features through the rest of our Dayforce Talent 
Management suite  .
Perhaps the most impactful use of intelligence 
insights is in uncovering bias and ensuring 
objectivity  . Dayforce DEI Intelligence is the next 
generation of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
Analytics designed to help organizations better 
understand where to focus their efforts in 
solving the DEI challenge  . Typical DEI metrics 
utilize past performance data without showing 
organizations how to improve the future  . Using 
a combination of AI and data science, Dayforce 
DEI Intelligence provides information beyond 
typical demographic factors to help leaders make 
actionable decisions  . It will utilize a combination 
of self-disclosed, inferred, and survey data from 
our Engagement product to provide an easily 
digestible score that leaders can understand and 
benchmark against, enabling DEI strategies that 
drive measurable progress  .12. TECH FOR GOOD - 2/3
“You know you’ve done 
something right when your 
valued employees call you, 
email you, text you, take the 
time to thank you for giving 
them something that is so 
meaningful to them in their 
lives,” says Justine Bowker, The 
Budd Group, of her company’s 
experience with Dayforce 
Wallet. This is why we launched 
Dayforce Wallet. This is how we 
‘Make Work Life Better.’”32
Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Environment SASB index Appendix Our communities
Dayforce People Analytics
In 2021, Ceridian announced Dayforce People 
Analytics, a valuable offering that empowers 
leaders with real-time actionable insights to 
better manage and support their employees  . 
With this technology, customers can view key 
human capital management (HCM metrics 
on a personalized landing page in realtime, 
gather insights from across the organization by 
integrating HCM data from Dayforce with third-
party tools, and visualize their data to get a 
deeper understanding of historical trends and 
make course corrections  . With 15 out-of-the-box 
dashboards, managers and executives are now 
able to better understand whether current policies 
and practices are working, including efforts to 
attract and retain top talent; improve diversity, 
equity, and inclusion; bolster engagement on 
specific teams; and reduce turnover in select 
geographies  . Dayforce People Analytics also 
calculates the most critical HCM metrics using 
existing ISO standards and best practices  .12. TECH FOR GOOD - 3/3
In 2022, Dayforce People Analytics will develop 
additional functionalities to provide Employee 
Attributes and Organizational Attributes 
Dashboards, as well as incorporating Time 
Series Forecasting  .Candidate activity
Compensation cycle details
Current employee flight risk by manager
Diversity Equity, and Inclusion
Employee health elections
Employee listing by manager
Employee pay summary
Employee punch
Gross to net by range
New hires
Performance review trends – Details
Schedules – Average scheduled daily hours
Survey participation rate
Talent factors
Turnover by location
ESG GOALS | Tech for good 2025
Increase the percentage of Dayforce customers using DEI Intelligence to 20% by 202517 20%
33
Our communities
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix
A year of action
million in Ceridian Cares 
grants given$1.1
nonprofits supported 
through employee 
giving and volunteering481
ESG GOALS | Our communities 2021 2025
Increase the percentage of employees giving and volunteering to 50% by 2025 35% 50%Our communities
Ceridian Cares
Giving where we’re living
In 2021, the Ceridian team united around the 
world like never before  . We launched a new 
global giving and volunteering platform in 
partnership with Benevity, which gave 2,000 
more global employees access to participate in 
our annual giving efforts, resulting in nearly 500 
charities in 12 countries receiving donations  . In 
addition, we responded to several individual 
crises with coordinated campaigns designed 
to expedite funds to individuals and families in 
extreme need  . This includes pandemic relief in 
India, humanitarian relief in Afghanistan, and 
natural disaster relief efforts in Canada and the 
United States  . All this was done in addition to the 
work we do with our very own Ceridian Cares 
Foundation, which provides financial support 
to individuals and families for basic needs and 
quality of life in the United States and Canada 
and for disadvantaged children in Mauritius  .13. OUR COMMUNITIES - 1/234
Our communities
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good Environment SASB index Appendix
Stories of impact
Tahereh (Richmond Hill, Ontario)
Osteoarthritis limits Tahereh’s ability to walk  . 
She lives alone and needed a power wheelchair 
for independent mobility  . She has regained 
self-confidence and is out in her neighborhood 
meeting some of her own needs  . She is very 
happy and says her life is now easier  .Katrina (Moorpark, California)
At just 32, Katrina has been battling metastatic 
breast cancer for 5 years  . Side effects left her 
unable to climb stairs or sleep in a regular bed  . 
With a Ceridian Cares grant for a reclining couch, 
she is now able to comfortably spend time with 
family and friends in the living room  .
Rocco (Pass Christian, Mississippi)
Rocco is 11 years old, has Down syndrome and 
is nonverbal  . As one of 5 children in a very 
active family, he needed a special electric cart to 
participate in family activities outdoors  . Rocco and 
his family are now able to enjoy full family outings, 
and he loves his bike!
13. OUR COMMUNITIES - 2/2
Gary (Campbell River, British Columbia)
With only a few teeth, Gary was only able to eat 
soup  . A mobile outreach unit applied for a grant on 
his behalf to cover the cost of dental work  . Gary is 
now able to eat nutritious food and does cleanup 
work around the city to “pay it forward” out of 
gratitude for the support he received  .
35
Environment
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good SASB index Appendix Our communities
customers in North America 
migrated to public cloud in 2021  Over
1,10014. ENVIRONMENT - 1/4
“In this virtual first era, our aim is to 
ensure that Ceridian’s physical footprint 
not only meets the needs of our 
workforce, but that it improves efficiency 
and leads to meaningful emissions 
reductions over time.”
JUDY ROZAL, VICE PRESIDENT, FACILITIES AND CAPITAL BUDGETEnvironment
Carbon footprint
Climate change poses a dire threat to the long-
term survival of humanity and our planet  . It is 
imperative that businesses do their part to address 
this crisis, and Ceridian is committed to significantly 
reducing our carbon footprint over time  . Last 
year, we took a critical step by conducting a 
greenhouse gas inventory for 2019, 2020, and 
2021  . These included emissions from two recently 
acquired large companies—Excelity in 2020 and 
Ascender in 2021  . Despite this business growth, we 
realized emissions reductions, although this was 
largely impacted by the effects of the COVID-19 
pandemic—including such things as office closures, 
virtual work, and reduced business travel  .
In 2021, we used 66,974 gigajoules (GJ) of 
energy, which includes 13,115 megawatt hours 
(MWH) of electricity  . Ceridian’s Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, excluding Excelity and Ascender, were 
5,632 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(mtCO2e)  . Including those acquisitions, our 
Scope 1 & 2 emissions in 2021 were 8,359 
mtCO2e  . 580 mtCO2e came from colocation 
data centers and on-premises servers last year, 
which is a 68% reduction from 2019, and reflects 
our ongoing commitment to a 100% public 
cloud environment  . Our Scope 3 emissions from 
purchased goods and services, business travel, 
employee commuting and virtual work were 
42,158 mtCO2e, up 1% from two years prior  .
As part of our efforts to shrink our carbon 
footprint, we have set a goal of reducing Scope 
1 & 2 emissions from Ceridian’s operations—
excluding Excelity and Ascender—by 42% before 
2030 from a 2019 baseline  . As a result of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, we selected 2019 as our 
baseline because we believe that it comes 
closest to a normal state for business operations 
and activity  . This ambition is consistent with 
the 1 .5 degrees Celsius target set forth in the 
Paris Agreement  . In the coming months, we will 
work to develop science-based targets that are 
inclusive of our entire operations and value chain  .
Please refer to the Notes section of the report regarding updates to environmental data.2136
Environment
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good SASB index Appendix Our communities14. ENVIRONMENT - 2/4
“Incorporating sustainable procurement 
practices allows us to unlock the enormous 
potential for driving positive change across 
our entire value chain. For Ceridian, that 
starts with building a robust supplier diversity 
program and identifying the right vendors to 
help reduce our overall carbon footprint.”
SHARITA ELSTON, VICE PRESIDENT, VENDOR MANAGEMENT AND AP
Business travel and employee commuting
Business-related travel and employee commuting 
continued to take place in a reduced capacity 
during 2021 because of the pandemic  . Our 
emissions associated with business-related travel 
were 951 mtCO2e, down 66% from two years 
before  . Emissions from employee commuting 
and virtual work were 3,641 mtCO2e in 2021, 
down 44% from 2019  . As we look ahead, we will 
continue to identify new ways of working that 
boost efficiency while reducing emissions  .
Sustainable procurement
We are actively exploring the right approach 
to not only set a Scope 3 emissions reduction 
goal, but to achieve it  . This starts with building 
a sustainable procurement program that will 
help bring down the emissions associated 
with our purchased goods and services  . This 
includes increasingly selecting companies that 
are committed to bold climate action as our 
vendors  . In 2021, we selected Coupa as our 
Business Spend Management platform to help 
propel that work forward  .
reduction in paper 
use since 201944%Water
In 2021, our water consumption was 2  .614 
million gallons—down 78% from 2019  . Although 
this reduction is affected by the COVID-19 
pandemic’s effects, we will actively explore water 
conservation opportunities and best approaches 
to reduce our footprint’s overall water risk  .
Paper and waste 
Ceridian used 31,199,659 sheets (or 159 
tons) of paper in 2021, which is nearly half of 
what was used annually in 2019  . This reflects 
our continued effort to promote self-service 
and paperless solutions (online reports and 
employee self-service portals) for payroll and 
HR . We also experienced a 80% reduction in 
waste since 2019  . While this was due largely 
to the office closures from the pandemic, we 
plan on continuing this trend by exploring new 
opportunities to reduce or eliminate waste—
including pursuing TRUE Zero Waste certification 
for at least one of our facilities globally  .
Please refer to the Notes section of the report regarding updates to environmental data.2137
Environment
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good SASB index Appendix Our communities14. ENVIRONMENT - 3/4
ESG GOALS | Environment 2021 2025
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions from Ceridian’s operations by 42% before 2030 compared to a 2019 baseline18 5,632 mtCO2e (-37%) 7,067 mtCO2e (-21%)14. ENVIRONMENT - 3/4
Scope 1 & 2 Emissions (mtCO2e)
Ceridian only
201920202021
2,000 4,000 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000
Scope 3 Emissions (mtCO2e)
Purchased goods and services, business travel, employee 
commuting and virtual work201920202021
10,000 - 20,000 60,000 50,000 40,000 30,0002,000 4,000 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000Scope 1 & 2 Emissions (mtCO2e)
including Excelity and Ascender
201920202021
Paper use (sheets)
201920202021
10,000,000 - 20,000,000 60,000,000 50,000,000 40,000,000 30,000,000Electricity (MWh) 
2,000 4,000 8,000 16,000 14,000 12,000 6,000 10,000 20,000 18,000201920202021
Please refer to the Notes section of the report regarding updates to environmental data.2138
Environment
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good SASB index Appendix Our communities14. ENVIRONMENT - 4/4
2019 2020 2021% Change 
from baseline
ElectricityMegawatt hours  
(MWh)17,543 12,372 13,115 -25.2%
EnergyGigajoules (GJ) 88,734 60,175 66,974 -24.5%
Diesel (Gallons) 152 130 88 -42.1%
Natural gas (Therms) 242,291 148,056 187,216 -22.7%
Refrigerants (lbs) 963 825 801 -16.8%
EmissionsScope 1 & 2 
Emissions (mtCO2e)                  
Ceridian only8,946 6,115 5,632 -37.0%
Scope 1 & 2 
Emissions (mtCO2e)                
including Excelity and 
Ascender6,738 8,359 n/a
Scope 3 (mtCO2e) 
Purchased Goods and 
Services, Business Travel, 
Employee Commuting and 
Virtual Work41,604 39,243 42,158 +1.3%
Water (supply) Gallons 11,918,546 3,156,395 2,614,132 -78.1%
Waste Tons  1,485 138 301 -79.7%
Paper # of sheets 56,585,523 48,530,069 31,199,659 44.9%
Please refer to the Notes section of the report regarding updates to environmental data.2139
Environment
2022 Ceridian ESG Report☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good SASB index Appendix Our communities
15. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS - 1/1
“The SDGs provide an invaluable roadmap 
to solve the most challenging problems 
facing society and our planet. We believe 
the private sector can play a critical role in 
the global effort to address them.”
VIDIA MOONEGAN, MANAGING DIRECTOR, MAURITIUSUnited Nations 
Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) 
Ceridian’s commitment to the five pillars of our 
ESG strategic framework and our 2025 goals 
will help ensure that we always act responsibly 
and sustainably  . It is our roadmap to continue 
being a leading corporate citizen as well as 
a thoughtful and accountable partner to key 
stakeholders  . Successful performance on each 
of most materials topics will result in some 
progress toward achieving several United 
Nations SDGs  .40
SASB indexAppendix
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good Environment Our communities
16. BY THE NUMBERS - 1/4
By the numbers 
SASB Standards Reference Index
An important step in Ceridian’s journey as 
a responsible and sustainable business was 
aligning with the Value Reporting Foundation’s 
SASB Standards for this report  . We recognize 
the unique value this information has for a 
variety of stakeholders—including investors, 
customers, NGOs, governments, and several 
others  . With a focus on the ESG issues that 
SASB considers financially material for the 
Software and Information Technology (IT) 
Services industry, below are the metrics that 
track Ceridian’s performance since 2019  . In a 
very limited number of instances, we (1) did 
not possess or track the requested data, (2) 
amended the metric to better reflect the nature 
of our business, or (3) elected not to disclose 
the data at this time  . As we progress on this 
journey, Ceridian will continue to strengthen 
and deepen our ESG reporting, and we look 
forward to the work by the leading framework 
organizations to develop a comprehensive and 
standardized corporate reporting system  .
41
SASB indexAppendix
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good Environment Our communities
SASB table Accounting metric SASB code 2019 2020 2021
Environmental footprint(1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid 
electricity, (3) percentage renewableTC-SI-130a.1 88,734 GJ; 100%; 0% 60,175 GJ; 100%; 0% 66,974 GJ; 100%; 0%
(1) Total water withdrawn TC-SI-130a.2 45 TCM 12 TCM 10 TCM
Discussion of the integration of environmental 
considerations into strategic planning for data 
center needsTC-SI-130a.3 Environment
Data privacy and freedom of expressionDescription of policies and practices relating to 
behavioral advertising and user privacyTC-SI-220a.1 Privacy
Number of users whose information is used for 
secondary purposesTC-SI-220a.2This information was not 
tracked.This information was not 
tracked.This information was not 
tracked.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with user privacyTC-SI-220a.3 Ceridian had no material monetary losses from legal proceedings associated with user privacy.
(1) Number of law enforcement requests for 
user information, (2) number of users whose 
information was requested, (3) percentage 
resulting in disclosureTC-SI-220a.4This information was not 
tracked.This information was not 
tracked.Law Enforcement Requests 
Reports: June 2021  and 
December 2021 .
List of countries where core products or services 
are subject to government-required monitoring, 
blocking, content filtering, or censoringTC-SI-220a.5 None None None16. BY THE NUMBERS - 2/4
Please refer to the Notes section of the report regarding updates to environmental data.2142
SASB indexAppendix
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good Environment Our communities
SASB table Accounting metric SASB code 2019 2020 2021
Data security(1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage 
involving personally identifiable information 
(PII), (3) number of users affectedTC-SI-230a.1 Ceridian experienced no material data breaches.
Description of approach to identifying and 
addressing data security risks, including use of 
third-party cybersecurity standardsTC-SI-230a.2 Data security
Recruiting & Managing a Global, Diverse, and 
Skilled WorkforcePercentage of employees that are (1) foreign 
nationals and (2) located offshoreTC-SI-330a.1 1.2%; 20.7% 1.8%; 21.1% 2.8%; 23.1%
Employee engagement as a percentage TC-SI-330a.2 71% 76% 75%
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group 
representation for (1) management, (2) technical 
staff, and (3) all other employeesTC-SI-330a.3 Representation Representation Representation
Intellectual Property Protection & Competitive BehaviorTotal amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated with 
anticompetitive behavior regulationsTC-SI-520a.1Ceridian had no material monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with anticompetitive behavior regulations.
Managing Systemic Risks from Technology DisruptionsNumber of (1) performance issues and (2) 
service disruptionsTC-SI-550a.1 1; 89 17; 143 18; 182
Description of business continuity risks related 
to disruptions of operationsTC-SI-550a.2 Enterprise risk management16. BY THE NUMBERS - 3/443
SASB indexAppendix
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people Tech for good Environment Our communities
EEO-1 Report16. BY THE NUMBERS - 4/444
AppendixEnvironment Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people SASB index Our communities
Appendix
Benefits U.S. Canada
Basic Life Insurance Yes Yes
Optional Life Insurance Yes Yes
Basic AD&D Yes Yes
Optional AD&D Yes Yes
Health Insurance Yes Yes
Short-Term Disability Yes Yes
Long-Term Disability Yes Yes
Parental Leave Yes Yes
Retirement Yes Yes
Employee Stock Purchase Plan Yes Yes
Time Away From Work Yes Yes
Sick Time Program Yes Yes
Fitness Benefit Yes Yes
Holidays Yes Yes
Bereavement Yes Yes
Business Travel Accident Yes YesBenefits U.S. Canada
Employee Assistance Program Yes Yes
Health Savings Account Yes Yes
Dental Insurance Yes Yes
Vision Insurance Yes Yes
Pet Insurance Yes Yes
Flexible Spending Account Yes Yes
Backup Child Care Yes No
Adoption Reimbursement Yes Yes
Home/Auto Insurance Yes Yes
Critical Illness Insurance Plan Yes Yes
Hospitalization Indemnity Plan Yes No
Accident Insurance Plan Yes No
Legal Plan Yes Yes
Dave McKay Volunteer Day Yes Yes
Scholarship Program Yes Yes
Ergonomics Assessments Yes Yes17. APPENDIX - 1/545
AppendixEnvironment Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people SASB index Our communities
Policies and principles
Anti-corruption policy
Anti-fraud standards
Code of conduct
Corporate records retention policy
Delegation of authority policy
Disclosure policy
Human rights statement 
Insider trading and tipping policy
Modern slavery statement
Sanctions compliance policy 
Supplier code of conductGovernance
Size of board 10
Number of independent directors 8
Percentage of directors who are independent 80%
Fully independent committees Yes
Independent lead director Yes
Average age of directors 59
Average director tenure 4.2
Mandatory retirement age No
Number of female directors 4
Number of ethnically diverse directors 1
Number of board and committee meetings in 2021 26
Number of directors attending less than 80% of meetings in 2021 0
Periodic executive sessions Yes
Annual election of directors19 Yes
Majority voting in director elections20 In process
Poison pill No
Stockholder ability to call special meeting No
Stockholder right to act by written consent No
Compensation recovery (“clawback”) policy Yes
Annual say-on-pay vote Yes
Stock ownership guidelines for directors and executive officers Yes
Corporate governance guidelines Yes
Director “overboarding” guidelines Yes
Related person transactions policy YesAnnual board and committee evaluations Yes
New director orientation program Yes
Anti-corruption policy Yes
Anti-fraud standards Yes
Corporate records retention policy Yes
Delegation of authority policy Yes
Disclosure policy Yes
Insider trading and tipping policy Yes
Sanctions compliance policy Yes17. APPENDIX - 2/546
AppendixEnvironment Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people SASB index Our communities
Trust
Data security
At Ceridian, we believe that effective security 
detection and response depends upon the 
deployment of analytics, automation, and highly 
skilled professionals  . We know that strong data 
governance and data-centric security are also 
critical to maintaining our already high levels of 
compliance, privacy, and customer protection  . 
To combat a rising number of data security 
threats and an enhanced level of sophistication, 
we have identified six priority areas to drive 
performance in the intermediate term:Certifications and attestations
Ceridian’s data security program closely aligns 
with a variety of industry standard frameworks  . 
This is reinforced by a requirement to have 
independent reviews of our supporting controls  . 
The following certifications and attestations are in 
place for Dayforce:
ISO/IEC 27017
ISO/IEC 27018
ISO/IEC 270136
NIST 800-171
SOC 1 Type 1
SOC 2 Type 217. APPENDIX - 3/5
Advanced analytics and automation
Safeguarding data across our cloud applications and endpoints starts with understanding the data  . 
Our advanced analytics enable automated processes and improve our data security capabilities  .
Cybersecurity global operating model
Our cybersecurity program, including the underpinning policies and standards, applies to all business 
entities and technology products across the globe  . Applying this consistent framework bolsters confidence 
in our data protection practices for our entire customer base  .
Risk-aware workforce
Equipping our employees with the proper education through ongoing security awareness training is 
essential to our practice  . Reducing the risk of social engineering and phishing is of paramount importance 
in today’s cyber landscape  .
Best-in-class product security
Security and privacy by design are at the core of our product development life cycle  . Beginning with 
ideation all the way to implementation, security and privacy are completely embedded into our research 
and development processes  .
Strong data governance
Managing data throughout the entire life cycle is a core business objective  . This includes strong data 
retention policies and practices, as well as enabling customers to self-manage their data  .
Global cybersecurity capabilities
Establishing maturity across our global cybersecurity capabilities underpins our ability to safeguard 
the identity of users (privacy) and safeguard sensitive data (security)  .47
AppendixEnvironment Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people SASB index Our communities17. APPENDIX - 4/5
Privacy
Privacy is the number one concern for a wide 
range of our stakeholders—including partners, 
customers, and their employees—and we 
take our responsibilities as a data controller, 
data processor, and product developer very 
seriously  . That is why we have developed 
and implemented a robust intermediate-term 
strategy to meet their understandably high 
expectations  . This involves prioritizing the 
following workstreams  .
External NoticesClear policies, guidance, and procedures
Ongoing workforce training and communication to ensure an always-on privacy mindset
Data inventory management and Privacy by Design assessments
Ongoing monitoring of privacy posture and risk
Integration of metrics and scorecards
Robust third-party processor management
B2B customer management
Process to enable individual rights 
↗ Global privacy statement ↗ Cookie statement ↗ Biometric statement48
AppendixEnvironment Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people SASB index Our communities17. APPENDIX - 5/5
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
Effective enterprise risk management is a critical 
component of Ceridian’s success  . Through 
application of our Risk Framework and the 
continuous identification and assessment 
of risk, Ceridian seeks to ensure that our 
business can proactively quantify exposures 
and take remedial action when required  . Risk 
identification and analysis is used as a basis 
for decision-making and accountability at all 
relevant organizational levels and to drive value 
to the organization holistically  . Ceridian’s ERM 
program consists of two primary components: 
the Framework and the Process  .
The Framework, primarily based on the COSO 
Enterprise Risk Management Framework, is the 
foundation for Ceridian’s ERM strategy and is 
designed for managing risk on an ongoing basis  . 
It guides the overall structure and operation of 
ERM at a corporate level, and defines our risk 
impact categories, key risk areas (KRAs), and 
risk scoring and tolerance  . The Process is our method of identifying, 
analyzing, and mitigating risks, including risk 
assessment and risk monitoring capability  . 
Through both, we manage five key risk categories:
We continually evaluate enterprise-level 
risks and related business risks across four 
dimensions: likelihood, severity, detectability, 
and velocity  . Once risks have been identified, 
analyzed, and evaluated, the appropriate risk 
treatment is applied in response  . Treatment 
options include:This work is overseen by our senior vice 
president for Enterprise Risk Management 
in coordination with Ceridian’s Risk Steering 
Committee, which is comprised of leaders from 
more than 12 key business units  .The function’s 
intermediate-term priorities include:
Ongoing cross-functional evaluation and 
prioritization of “top risks” at the enterprise 
level to ensure accuracy of Ceridian’s risk 
profile
Quarterly discussions around emerging and 
significant risk exposures
Reviewing and identifying of mitigation 
strategies, along with action to mitigate in a 
timely manner
Ongoing review of Ceridian’s ERM program 
and opportunities for continual improvement 
and maturationCompliance
Financial
Operational
Reputational
Strategic/Growth
Accept
Mitigate
Monitor
Transfer
Withdraw
49
AppendixEnvironment Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people SASB index Our communities
Contact us
responsibility@ceridian  .com
ceridian  .com/corporateresponsibility
3311 East Old Shakopee Road
Minneapolis, MN 55425-1640
Phone: (952) 853-810018. ABOUT THE REPORT - 1/1
About the report 
Reporting year and scope
Unless otherwise specified, this report focuses 
primarily on activities during calendar year 2021  . 
All references to a “year" refer to calendar years  .  
Ceridian’s fiscal years coincide with calendar 
years; therefore, information relating to financial 
performance is referring to calendar and fiscal 
years, which are the same  .
Unless otherwise specified, the scope of this 
report refers to the entirety of Ceridian’s global 
business operations  . Ceridian has acquired a 
number of companies over the past few years, 
including Riteq in 2019, Excelity in 2020, and 
Adam HCM, Ascender, DataFuzion assets, 
and Ideal in 2021, among others  . Wherever 
applicable, data from their activity is included 
from their acquisition date onward  . In several 
sections, information is presented relating only 
to Ceridian’s U  .S . companies and those are 
referenced accordingly  . Third-party assurance
Ceridian engaged Bureau Veritas for third-party 
verification of our Scope 1, 2, and partial Scope 
3 emissions for 2019, 2020, and 2021  . Three 
Scope 3 categories were included—Purchased 
Goods and Services, Business Travel, and 
Employee Commuting  . The firm completed 
its “limited assurance” verification in March 
2022, and a copy of its letter is available in this 
report’s appendix .
Forward-looking statements
This report contains forward-looking 
statements that involve a number of risks and 
uncertainties  . Statements that are not historical 
facts, including statements regarding our 
expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies 
regarding the future, are forward-looking 
statements  . Forward-looking statements 
are based on management's beliefs, as well 
as assumptions made by, and information 
currently available to, management  . Because 
such statements are based on expectations as 
to future financial and operating results and 
are not statements of fact, actual results may 
differ materially from those projected  . We 
undertake no obligation to update any forward-
looking statements, whether as a result of new 
information, future events, or otherwise  .About Ceridian
Ceridian is a global human capital management 
(HCM) software company  . Dayforce, our flagship 
cloud HCM platform, provides human resources, 
payroll, benefits, workforce management, and talent 
management capabilities in a single solution  . Our 
platform helps you manage the entire employee 
life cycle, from recruiting and onboarding, to paying 
people and developing their careers  . Ceridian 
provides solutions for organizations of all sizes, from 
small businesses to global organizations  .
Makes Work Life Better™
Ceridian’s brand promise is “Makes Work Life 
Better™  .” It is our purpose, and it embodies who 
we are, what we believe, and what we stand for  . 
We live our promise and purpose by aiming to 
improve the work lives of our customers, their 
employees, and our own teams at Ceridian every 
day and with everything we do  .50
AppendixEnvironment Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people SASB index Our communities
 
BV Ref: 5025595_20220329  Page 1 of 4 
 
INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT   
 
To:  The Stakeholders of Ceridian 
 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Bureau Veritas UK Ltd (‘Bureau Veritas’) has been engaged by Ceridian to provide limited 
assurance of its Scope 1, 2 and partial Scope 3 reporting of GHG emissions. This Assurance 
Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described 
below. 
 
Scope of work 
The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the following GHG information included 
within Ceridian’s upcoming ESG report for the period of January 1st 2019 to December 31st 
2021 (‘the Selected Information’). 
 Scope 1 emissions  
 Scope 2 emissions (market-based) 
 Selected Scope 3 emissions  
o Purchased goods and services 
o Business travel 
o Employee commute 
o Remote Working 
 
Our assurance does not extend to any other information included in the ESG report. 
 
Reporting criteria 
The Selected Information has been prepared in accordance with Ceridian’s internal 
definitions.  
 
Limitations and Exclusions 
Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information relating to: 
 Activities outside the defined verification period;  
 Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief, aim or future intention by 
Ceridian and statements of future commitment);  
 Financial data taken from the Report which are audited by an external financial 
auditor; 
 Other information included in the Report; 
 With respect to Employee Commute emissions in 2020 and 2021. Assumptions about 
distance travelled and mode of transport applied to office locations internationally 
were all based on a USA proxi. 
 
This limited assurance engagement relies on a risk based selected sample of sustainability 
data and the associated limitations that this entails. The reliability of the reported data is 
dependent on the accuracy of metering and other production measurement arrangements 
employed at site level, not addressed as part of this assurance. This independent statement 
should not be relied upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist. 
 
 
BV Ref: 5025595_20220329  Page 2 of 4 Regarding Natural Gas, Refrigerants, and Electricity emissions, Ceridian estimated their 
emissions using statistical analysis based on Spend data (where available) and square 
footage. This is a widely used method with a high level of acceptance for emission 
calculations but has uncertainties inherent. However, Bureau Veritas did not identify or have 
visibility of any errors in the methodology, assumptions and calculations in question within the 
sampled activities. 
With respect to Business Travel emissions (air and rail), Ceridian adopted and reported 100% 
of its calculated emissions from a third-party travel agency and Bureau Veritas did not have 
visibility of the methodology applied to perform such calculations. Regarding air businesses 
travel, we had visibility of the activity data used by the third-party to perform such calculations 
in the form of kilometres travelled per passenger per flight which were benchmarked against 
airport distances database with no issues found within the selected sample. 
With respect to Employee Commute emissions, in the absence of primary data Ceridian 
applied assumptions such as distance travelled and mode of transport based on national 
average statistics for the countries where most of its staff are located and therefore there is 
residual uncertainty and the possibility of misstatement, although Bureau Veritas did not 
identify any. There are opportunities for improvements in the method used which have been 
presented to Ceridian’s management team in the form of a Management Report.  
Responsibilities 
This preparation and presentation of the Selected Information in the Report are the sole 
responsibility of the management of Ceridian.   
Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting of the Report or of the Reporting Criteria. Our 
responsibilities were to: 
 obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected Information has been prepared 
in accordance with the Reporting Criteria; 
 form an independent conclusion based on the assurance procedures performed and 
evidence obtained; and 
 report our conclusions to the management of Ceridian. 
 
Assessment Standard 
We performed our work in accordance with International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews 
of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance reports dated on or after December 
15, 2015), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. 
 
Summary of work performed 
As part of our independent verification, our work included:  
1. Assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the Selected Information; 
2. Conducting interviews with relevant personnel of Ceridian. 
3. Reviewing the data collection and consolidation processes used to compile Selected 
Information, including assessing assumptions made, and the data scope and 
reporting boundaries; 
4. Reviewing documentary evidence provided by Ceridian;  
5. Agreed a sample of the Selected Information to the corresponding source 
documentation; 
6. Assessing the disclosure and presentation of the Selected Information to ensure 
consistency with assured information. 
7. Reperforming a selection of aggregation calculations of the Selected Information. 
8. Reperforming greenhouse gas emissions conversions calculations. 
 51
AppendixEnvironment Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people SASB index Our communities
 
BV Ref: 5025595_20220329  Page 3 of 4 It should be noted that the scope of a limited assurance engagement is substantially less than 
for reasonable assurance both in terms of the risk assessment procedures and in performing 
the procedures to address the identified risks. 
 
Conclusion    
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above nothing has come to our 
attention to indicate that the Selected Information  is not fairly stated in all material respects.  
Year Verified GHG Emissions 
Scope 1 emissions (tCO 2e) 
 Scope 2 emissions (tCO 2e) 
 Scope 3 emissions (tCO 2e)  
 
2019 Total: 1,907 
Natural Gas: 1,285 
Diesel: 2 
Refrigerant Gases: 568 
Propane: 52 
 Total: 7,039 
Market-based: 7,039 
 
 Total: 41,604 
Business Travel: 2,758 
Commuting: 5,795 
Purchased Goods & Services: 32,335 
Remote working: 716  
2020 Total: 1,273 
Natural Gas: 786 
Diesel: 1 
Refrigerant Gases: 486 
Propane: 0 
 Total: 5,465 
Market-based: 5,465 
 Total: 39,243 
Business Travel: 405 
Commuting: 1,507 
Purchased Goods & Services: 35,277 
Remote working: 2,054  
2021 Total: 1,467 
Natural Gas: 993 
Diesel: 1 
Refrigerant Gases: 472 
Propane: 0 
 Total: 6,892 
Market-based: 6,892 
 Total: 42,158 
Business Travel: 951  
Commuting: 1,269 
Purchased Goods & Services: 37,567 
Remote working: 2,372 
 
BV Ref: 5025595_20220329  Page 4 of 4 Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence  
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises in quality, 
environmental, health, safety and social accountability with over 190 years history. Its 
assurance team has extensive experience in conducting verification over environmental, 
social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes.  
 
Bureau Veritas operates a certified1 Quality Management System which complies with the 
requirements of ISO 9001:2008, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of 
quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with 
ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements. 
 
Bureau Veritas has implemented and applies a Code of Ethics, which meets the requirements 
of the International Federation of Inspections Agencies (IFIA)2, across the business to ensure 
that its employees maintain integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality, professional behaviour and high ethical standards in their day-to-day business 
activities.   
The assurance team for this work does not have any involvement in any other Bureau Veritas 
projects with Ceridian. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bureau Veritas UK Limited  
London 
14 April, 2022 
 
 
1 Certificate of Registration FS 34143 issued by BSI Assurance UK Limited 
2 International Federation of Inspection Agencies – Compliance Code – Third Edition 
52
AppendixEnvironment Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people SASB index Our communities
Use of non-GAAP financial measures
We use certain non-GAAP financial measures 
in this report, including Dayforce recurring 
revenue per customer, cloud revenue retention 
rate, and cloud annual recurring revenue (ARR)  . 
We believe that cloud revenue retention rate 
and cloud ARR, non-GAAP financial measures, 
are useful to management and investors as 
supplemental measures to evaluate our overall 
operating performance  . Our use of these 
terms may not be comparable to similarly titled 
measures of other companies in our industry 
and are not measures of performance calculated 
in accordance with GAAP  . Each of these 
measures has important limitations as analytical 
tools, and you should not consider them in 
isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our 
results as reported under GAAP  .
Our Dayforce recurring revenue per customer is 
an indicator of the average size of our Dayforce 
recurring customer  . To calculate Dayforce 
recurring revenue per customer, we start with 
Dayforce recurring revenue, excluding Ascender 
and Adam HCM, on a constant currency basis 
by applying the same exchange rate to all 
comparable periods for the trailing 12 months 
and exclude float revenue, the impact of 
lower employment levels due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, and Ascender and Adam HCM 
revenue  . This amount is divided by the number 
of live Dayforce customers at the end of the trailing 12-month period, excluding Ascender 
and Adam HCM  . We set quarterly targets for 
Dayforce recurring revenue per customer 
and monitor progress toward those targets 
on a quarterly basis  . Our Dayforce recurring 
revenue per customer may fluctuate as a result 
of a number of factors, including the number 
of live Dayforce customers and the number of 
customers purchasing the full HCM suite  . We 
have not reconciled the Dayforce recurring 
revenue per customer because there is no 
directly comparable GAAP financial measure  . 
We derive the majority of our cloud revenues 
from recurring fees, primarily per-employee-
per-month subscription charges  . We also 
derive recurring revenue from fees related to 
the rental and maintenance of clocks, charges 
for once-a-year services, such as year-end 
tax statements, and investment income on our 
customer funds before such funds are remitted 
to taxing authorities, customer employees, or 
other third parties  . To calculate cloud ARR, 
we start with recurring revenue at year-end, 
excluding revenue from Ascender and Adam 
HCM, subtract the once-a-year charges, 
annualize the revenue for customers live for less 
than a full year to reflect the revenue that would 
have been realized if the customer had been 
live for a full year, and add back the once-a-
year charges  . We set annual targets for cloud ARR and monitor progress toward those targets 
on a quarterly basis  . We have not reconciled 
the cloud ARR because there is no directly 
comparable GAAP financial measure  .
Our annual cloud revenue retention rate 
measures the percentage of revenues that 
we retain from our existing cloud customers  . 
We use this revenue retention rate as an 
indicator of customer satisfaction and future 
revenues  . We calculate the annual cloud 
revenue retention rate as a percentage, 
excluding Ascender and Adam HCM, where the 
numerator is the cloud ARR for the prior year, 
less the cloud ARR from lost cloud customers 
during that year, and the denominator is the 
cloud ARR for the prior year  . We set annual 
targets for cloud revenue retention rate and 
monitor progress toward those targets on a 
quarterly basis by reviewing known customer 
losses and anticipated future customer losses  . 
Our cloud revenue retention rate may fluctuate 
as a result of a number of factors, including the 
mix of cloud solutions used by customers, the 
level of customer satisfaction, and changes in 
the number of users live on our cloud solutions  . 
We have not reconciled the annual cloud 
revenue retention rate because there is no 
directly comparable GAAP financial measure  . 
For more information, please reference our 
public filings with the SEC  .GAAP - 1/153
AppendixEnvironment Tech for good
2022 Ceridian ESG Report ☰Our goals Governance and trust Our people SASB index Our communities
Notes
1 Excluding the 2021 acquisitions of Ascender and Adam HCM  .
2 Excluding the 2021 acquisitions of Ascender and Adam HCM  .
3 This is a non-GAAP measure; refer to non-GAAP measures section  . Excluding the 2021 acquisitions of 
Ascender and Adam HCM  .
4	 A	material	breach	is	defined	as	a	security	event	in	which	an	unauthorized	third	 party	obtains	access	to	
personal data and that has a material impact on Ceridian's business .
5 Although this data does not currently include employees from recently acquired companies such as Ascender, 
they will be incorporated in the coming year  .
6 Excluding employees from ecently acquired companies Excelity, Ascender, and Adam HCM .
7 A material breach is defined as a security event in which an unauthorized third party obtains access to 
personal data and that has a material impact on Ceridian's business  .
8 Senior management roles are defined as vice president-level roles and above  . Although this data does 
not currently include employees from recently acquired companies Excelity, Ascender, and Adam HCM, 
they will be incorporated in the coming year  .
9 Management roles are defined as manager-level roles and above  . At Ceridian, URM (underrepresented 
minorities) are defined as Black and African American, Hispanic and Latino, American Indian and Alaska 
Native, and Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander  .
10 Using DEI Intelligence is defined as using the Recruiting module and having our DEI Intelligence 
functionality selected .
11 The scope of Ceridian’s operations for this goal currently excludes recently acquired companies Excelity 
and Ascender  . They were not part of Ceridian in the baseline year 2019, which was selected because it 
comes closest to a normal state for business operations and activity  .
12 This reduction was significantly impacted by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic  .
13 A material breach is defined as a security event in which an unauthorized third party obtains access to 
personal data and that has a material impact on Ceridian's business  .14 Senior management roles are defined as vice president-level roles and above  . Although this data does 
not currently include employees from recently acquired companies Excelity, Ascender, and Adam HCM, 
they will be incorporated in the coming year  .
15 Management roles are defined as manager-level roles and above  . At Ceridian, URM (underrepresented 
minorities) are defined as Black and African American, Hispanic and Latino, American Indian and Alaska 
Native, and Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander  .
16 Although this data does not currently include employees from recently acquired companies such as 
Ascender, they will be incorporated in the coming year  .
17 Using DEI Intelligence is defined as using the Recruiting module and having our DEI Intelligence 
functionality selected .
18 The scope of Ceridian’s operations for this goal currently exclude recently acquired companies Excelity 
and Ascender  . They were not part of Ceridian in the baseline year 2019  .
19	In	2021,	we	began	to	sunset	our	classified	board	structure	over	three	years	in	 favor	of	annual	elections;	this	
will be complete in 2024 .
20 We will be moving to a majority voting standard for director elections by no later than the 2024 Annual 
Stockholders Meeting  .
21 Following the publication of the report in March 2022, some environmental data was updated in 
September 2022  .NOTES - 1/1© 2022 Ceridian HCM, Inc. All rights reserved. RP-NA-EN-DF-114934-102-2022-ESG-Report AX/CAt Ceridian, we create innovative technology that organizations 
around	the	world	use	to	attract,	develop,	manage,	and	pay 	
their people  . Our award-winning Dayforce solution helps our 
customers	manage	compliance,	make	better	decisions,	build	great 	
teams, and drive engagement with their employees . Ceridian has 
solutions for organizations of all sizes .
Ceridian. Intelligence at work.
ceridian.com