2021 CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT
Chairman’s Message 3
About Chatham Lodging Trust 4
Corpo rateResponsibility Strategy 5
Corporate Governance 10
Stakeholder Engageme nt 12
Environme ntalStewardship 14
Social Sustainability 24
Performance 31
Appendices
Appendix A GRI Content Index 33
Appendix B SASB Disclosures 50
Appendix C Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosure 56CONTENTS
Safe Harbor Statement under thePrivate Securities Litigation Reform Actof1995
This press release may contain “forward -looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995 about Chatham Lodging Trust, including statements regarding future plans, strategies, performance, acquisitions, capital ex-
penditures, future operating results and the timing and composition of revenues, among others, and statements containing words 
such as“expects,” “believes” or“will,” which indicate thatthose statements areforward -looking. Except forhistorical information, the 
matters discussed in this press release are forward -looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could 
cause theactual results orperformance todiffer materially from those discussed insuch statements. Additional risks arediscussed in
thecompany’s filings withtheSecurities andExchange Commission.CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
ToOurShareholders,
At Chatham Lodging Trust, we strive to create value while being responsible stewards at our hotels, in the community, and in ourindustry. As 2021 and the COVID -19 pandemic recedes 
fur ther in the rear -view mirror, we have resolved to increase our commitment and performance across many environmental, social a nd governance (ESG) matters. 
Fr om a reporting perspective and in the interest of assisting shareholders with a better understanding of the Company’s ESG p erformance, we issued our first annual Corporate 
Responsibility Report in early 2021. The initial report included ESG performance data for the years 2017 -2019. In January 2022, we published a supplement to that report which added 
disclosur es in compliance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Task F orce on Climate -related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
In this 2021 report, we are pleased to report 2020 and 2021 performance, which puts us on track for a single annual ESG r epor t that communicates the prior year’s performance. Our 
cur r ent report also shares updates on several important initiatives and key milestones.  
In or der to achieve stronger and more diverse ESG governance, we have a newly formed ESG Committee. We also added two trustee s, and our Board now consists of two women and one 
Afr ican American person . We are committed to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI), and I have joined the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion in itiative, personally pledging to continue 
advancing diversity and inclusion within our workplace and our Board of Tr ustees.
In an effor t to better understand our sustainability risk profile, we conducted a portfolio -wide risk assessment to help us unde rstand the significant aspects of our environmental footprint. 
This study identified properties with water, climate, biodiversity, socioeconomic and policy risk exposure so that we can dev elop best practices for withstanding expected and unexpected 
events
Our  commitment to community engagement remains strong, as our corporate teams gave time and resources to several local or gani zations. For the Loggerhead Marinelife Center, our team 
volunteered to conserve our environment and precious coastline through regular beach cleanups. We also continued our long -time p artnership with Quantum House to provide meals and 
suppor t for families whose children are receiving treatment for a serious medical condition in Palm Beach County, Florida. In addition, our corporate teams participated in an annual blood 
dr ive through OneBlood and with other charitable causes including Urban Youth Impact, the Salvation Ar my, Goodwill and Feeding America and Feeding S outh Florida.
One of our  key strengths is efficiently managing our resources. Our commitment to environmental stewardship is reflected in t he performance of our hotel properties. Since 2017, we have 
ex perienced a 27% reduction in our greenhouse gas emission intensity and 14.8% reduction in energy intensity. Additionally, o ur water intensity is trending downward. However, resting on 
our  laurels is not what we do at Chatham, and we are committed to working with our third -party hotel management partners to impr ove waste tracking and continuously improving our 
por tfolio's environmental efficiency. To that end, we recently completed the construction of a hotel in Los Angeles County, b uilt to both CalGREEN and LEED Silver standards.
By the end of 2022, we will develop specific and actionable targets for the Company’s environmental intensity metrics, includ inga goal to cut absolute carbon emissions by 50% by 2030. 
Chatham further acknowledges the necessity of r eaching net -zero emissions by 2050 and is committed to creating an organizational plan for  defining our pathway to net zero.  
As we continue our sustainability journey, we would like to thank all of our  stakeholders for making our commitments and succ esses possible.
Thank you, 
Jeffrey H. Fisher
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 
3Chatham Lodging Trust (“Chatham”) isaself-advised, publicly -traded realestate investment 
trust focused primarily oninvesting inupscale extended -stayhotels andpremium -branded, 
select -service hotels. Ourhigh-quality hotels arelocated inmajor markets withhighbarriers 
toentry, nearprimary demand generators forboth business andleisure guests. Ourprimary 
objective is to generate attractive returns for our shareholders through investing in hotel 
properties at prices that provide strong returns on invested capital, paying meaningful 
dividends, andgenerating long-term value appreciation. AsaCompany, weare:
•owners ofasuperior portfolio reflected bytopbrands andattractive markets;
•specialists withasignificantly larger concentration ofextended -stayrooms thanany 
other U.S.lodging REIT;
•leaders inethical corporate governance withacomprehensive Code ofBusiness 
Conduct;
•stewards oftheenvironment withextensive portfolio andcorporate initiatives; and
•corporate citizens committed todiverse andinclusive workplaces andpositive
community relations.
Business Strategy
Webelieve wecancreate long-term value bypursuing thefollowing strategies:
•Disciplined acquisition ofhotelpropertiesABOUT CHATHAM LODGING TRUST
•Opportunistic hotelrepositioning
•Aggressive asset management
•Selecti vehoteldevelopme nt
•Flexible selection ofhotel management companiesTOPMARKETS
2021Compa nyAttribu tes
416,169 118.260.0%38.3%
GuestRoom s
 Hotels
 Ful lYea rRevPAR  
I ndexExtendedStay  
Room sasa%Total
4,507,859
Sq.FeetofHotel  
SpaceHotelEBITDA  
Margin
BRAND COMPOSITIO N1
Silic on
Valley
23%
Los 
Angele s  
6%
4Residence 
Inn
46%
Homewood 
Suites
13%Hampton 
Inn
11%Courtyard
10%Hilton Garden 
Inn
6%SpringHill Suites 5%
Silicon Valley
9%
Greater 
NY
11%
Los Angeles
7%
NH / ME
13%
Houston
7%Dallas
7%Washington, 
D.C.
5%San Diego
6%Other
34%
1As of publication date of June 13th, 2022, the Company has 39 hotels.CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY
Ourcorporate responsibility strategy takes atwo-pronged approach. We 
set general sustainability commitments to continue doing well by doing 
good. Toachieve these commitments, wetakeastrategic Environmental, 
Social, andGovernance (ESG) approach toensure thatourcommitments 
are addressed and achieved through our material issues. Furthermore, 
we believe that utilizing an ESG approach will bolster our corporate 
responsibility through anenhanced examination ofourbusiness impacts.
Overarching Sustainability Commitme nts
Oursustainability commitments frame ourCompany’s plan tocreate 
long-term value by integrating environmental, social, and 
governan cefactorsintoourCompa ny’scentralvalue creation  
strategy,inwhich we:
•Support hotel operators toachieve brand level environmental 
initiatives throughout theportfolio
•Build resilient hotels towithstand thephysical impact ofclimate 
change andotherenvironme ntalconside rations
•Maintain thehighest standards ofhealth, safety, andwell-being
forourempl oyees
•Create andsustain lasting relationships withthecommunities in 
which weoperate
•Establish accountability through transparent ESGpolicies and 
disclosure ofimportant ESGinformation
•Leverage sustainability todrive value forourstakeholders, 
including stockholders, employees, suppliers, andexternal 
partners
5CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY
Strategic ESGApproach
Weachieve oursustainability commitments byimplementing athree -pronged ESGapproach .
6Environmental 
• Develop conservation 
programs related to 
energy, water and waste, 
and support third -party 
operators to implement 
property -level initiatives.
• Identify properties with 
high-risk exposure to the 
physical impacts of 
climate change and 
develop best practices 
for withstanding extreme 
weather events.
• Source suppliers and 
contractors pursuant to 
our Supplier Code of 
Conduct which sets 
standards for supplier 
treatment of workers, 
ethical business practices 
and impact on 
environment.Social 
• Implement an ‘open door’ 
policy to encourage open 
communications between 
management and employees.
• Provide opportunities for 
stakeholders to provide 
confidential feedback.
• Monitor employment, labor 
and human rights regulations 
and be accountable for 
compliance.
• Prioritize diversity, equity 
and inclusion in hiring
• Deliver ongoing associate 
ESG training
• Offer associate advancement 
and professional 
development opportunities
• Commitment to AHLA’s 5 -
Star Promise to enhance 
policies, training and 
resources to strengthen 
safety and security .Governance 
• Adopt the following 
ESG policies:
• Environmental Policy
• Human Rights Policy
• Anti-Harassment 
Policy
• Supplier Code of 
Conduct
• Establish roles for 
senior leadership and 
the Board on the 
oversight of 
environmental and 
social risk factors
• Maintain a 
comprehensive Code 
of Business Conduct 
and Corporate 
Governance 
Guidelines
• Form ESG CommitteeSustainable Development Goals
7The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a set of 17 actionable goals that seek to address 
global challenges and achieve a more sustainable future for all. While we recognize that all of the SDGs 
are important, for 2020 and 2021 we concentrated on the below goals that most relate to our business:
SDG Chatham Strategies & Actions SDG Chatham Strategies & Actions
Good Health & Well -Being
• Support the health and well -being of 
corporate employees, hotel 
associates and guests’ health safety 
and wellbeing
• Support Quantum House which helps 
families in need during times of 
health hardship
• Support Feeding America and 
Feeding South Florida
• Committed to AHLA’s 5 -Star Promise 
to enhance policies, training and 
resources to strengthen safety and 
security
• Participated in OneBlood blood 
driveClean Water and Sanitation
•Implement water initiatives such as 
auto-sensors, leveraging water -
saving technologies, and supporting 
our operating partners with 
adopting a linen and towel reuse 
program 
Affordable and Clean Energy
• Maintain property -level initiatives 
such as energy -efficient design, 
working with operating partners to 
mitigate energy consumption, and 
identify feasible and fiscally 
reasonable energy conservation 
opportunities
• Ongoing energy conservation 
initiatives include energy -efficient 
lighting, room occupancy sensors, 
routine energy audits, and electric 
vehicle charger installationReduced Inequalities
•Prioritize diversity, equity and 
inclusion in hiring
•Committed to CEO action on 
diversity  
•Ethnic, racial and gender diversity 
on Board of Trustees
•Expanded training on DEI matters
8SDG Chatham Strategies & Actions SDG Chatham Strategies & Actions
Responsible Consumption and 
Production
•Adopted a Supplier Code of 
Conduct in 2021, expressing 
expectations of suppliers and 
vendors
•Procurement of sustainable 
materials to incorporate into all 
development projects where 
feasible 
•Support development of waste 
minimization programs, 
recycling, reduction of single -
use plastics, and reduction of 
food wasteClimate Action
•Commitment to carbon targets 
and net zero
•TCFD, target, Invest in low 
carbon opportunities
•Conduct portfolio wide 
assessment on climate and 
biodiversity risks
Life Below Water
•Contribute to community beach 
cleanups and recycling 
operations in association with 
the Loggerhead Marine Life 
CenterPartnership for the Goals
•Partner with AHLA on 5 Star 
Promise
•Partner with CEO Action on 
Diversity
•Support industry collaboration 
and engagement by participating 
in the Cornell Hotel Sustainability 
Benchmarking (CHSB)
Sustainability Risk and Opportunity Assessment 
In 2021, we conducted a portfolio wide assessment of water risk, climate risk, biodiversity proximity, socio -economic indicators , and 
transition risk of regulation and policy via research of relevant local policies for our hospitality portfolio. The study loo kedat the following 
risk indicators:
9Through this study, we found the most significant risk categories include:
•Water –Almost half of Chatham’s portfolio is at High to Very High overall water risk. The top five properties with highest overall w ater risk are in 
Colorado, Texas and California. The most significant water related risk for the Chatham portfolio is that of baseline water s tress. Baseline water is 
determined based on the amount of water demand to the amount of water available in the location.
•Climate –Just under half of the portfolio has High to Very High overall climate risk. The top five properties with the highest overall climate risk are 
in Georgia, New Hampshire, Florida, Virginia and Texas. The most significant climate -related risk for the Chatham portfolio is that of long -term 
temperature and precipitation change. 
•Biodiversity -Almost half of the portfolio (21 out of 40) is within 5km (3.11 miles) of a recognized protected area. All of Chatham’s prope rties are 
within 50km (31.06) of an endangered or critically endangered species. Across the 40 properties, a total of 958 threatened sp ecies have been 
identified out of which 33% are critically endangered and 67% are endangered.
•Socio -economic risk -The most pressing socio -economic risks across Chatham properties are crime, air pollution and food insecurity. Fortunately, 
many of our properties have programs underway that address these risks and more will be developed going forward. The impacts of climate and 
water risk on properties, buildings, operations and working conditions, as well as guest experience will be further researche d and understood, and 
we will put adaptive plans put in place where necessary. For properties located within 5km of a protected area, we are planni ng to undertake due 
diligence to ensure the properties and operations do not negatively impact local biodiversity. Since crime rates have implications for guest and 
employee safety, we are planning to work with local communities to reduce violent crime, through job creation, access to educ ation, access to 
mental health services and other such initiatives. We are also planning to support properties in counties with high food inse curity to properly 
account for food waste at the property level. Climate Risk Indicators
Drought risk Flood risk
Cyclone risk Precipitation change
Temperature change Sea level riseBiodiversity Risk Indicators
Proximity to IUCN protected areas
Proximity to species recognized by the IUCN as critically endangered
Water Risk Indicators
Baseline water stress Seasonal variability
Future water stress 2030 Future water demand 2030
Water risk premium Future water supply 2030
Water intensity (Gallons/Sq. Ft.)
Relative market water intensitySocio -economic Risk Indicators
Obesity Access to exercise
Children living in poverty                      Infant mortality rate
High school graduation rate Level of insurance
Food insecurity Air pollution
Unemployment Crime
Access to healthcareIn February 2022, the Board of Trustees established an Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Committee. The ESG Committee consists of three trustees -and two non -trustees and provides ESG 
oversight to the Company and reports to the full Board of Trustees. This new committee oversees and 
advises the Board on the Company's goals, strategies, and commitments related to sustainability and ESG, 
including climate risks and opportunities, human rights and human capital management, community and 
social impact, and diversity and inclusion. The Committee also reviews and oversees the policies and 
procedures used to prepare sustainability and ESG -related statements and disclosures, including 
preparation of the Company's annual corporate responsibility report and reviews these statements and 
disclosures before their publication. The ESG Committee meets at least quarterly. The charter of the ESG 
Committee is available on our website at www.chathamlodgingtrust.com .CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
BoardOversightofESGRisks
AsaCompany, weintend tomaintain thehighest standards ofethical business practices andcompliance 
with all laws and regulations applicable to our business. In turn, we have adopted a corporate code of 
ethics relating to the conduct of our business by our employees, officers, and trustees. Furthermore, our 
Board ofTrustees hasestablished anAudit Committee, a Compensation Committee, aNominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee and an ESG Committee toprovide organizational structure andto
adapt toachanging business landscape sustainably.
Code of
Business
Conduct
Corporate 
Governan ce  
Guidelines
10ESGPolicies
Weestablished several ESGpolicies tohelp drive ourstrategy, maintain ourcommitments andachieve our
objectives.
•Environmental Policy: Outlines Chatham’s commitment toidentify andmanage thebusiness impacts 
of environmental risk factors and exercise appropriate due diligence concerning the environmental 
challenges presented byitsproperties.
•Human Rights Policy: Guides Chatham’s commitment torespect ofhuman rights andlabor rights within 
the communities we operate in and to engage our stakeholders in developing, implementing, and 
evaluating thepolicy’s effectiveness.
•Supplier Code of Conduct: Establishes the minimum standards that must be met by any Supplier that 
sells goods toordoes business withChatham regarding thetreatment ofworkers; workplace health and 
safety; theimpact ontheenvironment; andethical business practices.
•Anti-Harassment Policy: Outlines Chatham’s prohibition ofharassment inanyform, including verbal,
physical, visual, online, andother forms aswell.
Corporate Governance Highlights
Wehave made strong corporate governance apriority. Thefollowing highlights some ofthecritical
elements ofourcorporate governance practices.
•Gender diversity onBoardofTrustees
•Ethnic diversity on Board of Trustees
•7ofoureight existing trustees areindependent
•Lead independent trustee
•Code ofBusiness Conduct acknowledged byallempl oyees
•Insider Trader Policy acknowledged annually byallemployees
•Anti-hedging andanti-pledging policy
•Compensation “clawback ”policy asamechanism forexecutive accountability
•Participation in the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion ™pledge
11STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Werecognize thatourCompany’s success relies onpositive relations withallourstakeholders, including ourinvestors, board trustees, 
operating partners and tenants, employees, local communities, and suppliers. As such, we have ongoing efforts to engage them to 
understand their interests better.
Investors
Chatham values the views and opinions of our shareholders and believes strong corporate governance practices demand regular 
outreach andconversations withourshareholders. Management actively engages withshareholders atnumerous investor road shows, 
industry andinvestment community conferences, andmeetings withanalysts. Wealsor espond toindividual shareholders who express 
interest inourbusiness. Specifically, wecommunicated withvarious shareholders who supported increasing diversity representation on 
ourBoar d ofTrustees.
BoardofTrustees
Chatham depends onourBoard ofTrustees’ expertise anddirection toguide ourCompany andpromote good governance. Weengage 
our Boar d through four full board meetings per year. In 2021, all board member s attended 75% or more of the Boar d meetings and 
meetings of the committees on which they served either in person or by conference call. As outlined in our Corporate Governance 
Guidelines, trustees areinvited andencouraged toattend meetings ofshareholders. Additionally, oursenior leadership team maintains 
direct communication withourtrustees through regular business updates andtheopportunity fortwo-waycommunication.
OperatingPartners &HotelBrands
Chatham works closely with Island Hospitality Management to maximize top-line performance and margin performance . We also 
support them with creating sustainable environments for their employees and our guests. In 2021, we continue to benefit from 
significant asset management and increased collaboration with Island Hospitality Management . We have engaged our third -party 
operating partner in several ways, including month lymeetings withourasset management team, collaborating withbr ands todeliver
training, such as100% ofassociates being trained torecognize signs ofhuman trafficking atallproperties. Inearly 2021, welaunched a
sustainability survey toallthegeneral managers incharge ofoperating ourhotel properties toprovide insight intotheproperties’
environmental andsocial factors. Results of the survey are provided throughout this report.
With respect toourbr anded hotels, wework closely withMarriott International, Hilton Wor ldwide andHyatt tofollow requirements 
andguidance pertaining toenvironmental andsocial factors, such aswaste management, water usage, building safety, andhealth 
andwellbeing. Additionally, wesupport industry collaboration andengagement byparticipating intheCornell Hotel Sustainability 
Benchmarking (CHSB) tobenchmark ourenvironmental performance.
12STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Employees
At Chatham, we strive to provide each employee with a safe and healthful work 
environment. We also recognize the diversity of our employees is an important asset. 
Therefore, wearecommitted tounderstanding their interests, setting clear expectations, 
andboosting morale, which isdone through various engagements, where applicable.
These include:
•Providing orientationontheempl oyeehandbook forallnewhires,which includes  
writtenacknowledgme nt,andannual refreshme nts
•Tracking promotion rates ofdiverse groups
•Creating anopen -door policy across theorganization, especially theHuman
ResourcesDepartme nt
•Undertaking athird-party administered annual associate opinion survey (AOS) to
understand employee satisfaction
LocalCommunities
Chatham is supportive of the communities in which our hotels operate. We aim to 
promote positive community relations inseveral ways. OurArchitecture andDesign team 
haspreviously orchestrated public consultations toallow local community members to
understand ourhotel development projects better andcreate active dialogue. Wealsorely 
heavily onIsland Hospitality M anagement tosustain positive community relations. Also, as 
partofourregular meetings withourthird-party hotel management company, community 
interests maybedisc ussed ifthatismaterial tothebusiness updates atthetime.
Suppliers
Chatham works with its hotel brand companies, third-party operators, procurement 
partners, and strategic suppliers on environmental and climate change -related issues. 
As part of our engagement, Chatham seeks to share our environmental goals and 
procure sustainable materials toincorporate intoourdevelopment, redevelopment, and 
renovation projects where feasible. Additionally, in2021, weadopted aSupplier Code of 
Conduct toexpress ourexpectations ofoursuppliers andvendors.
13ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
14At Chatham, we recognize the importance of environmental stewardship in driving long-term 
shareholder value and creating a portfolio of resilient hotels. We undertake a multi -stakeholder approach to 
our hotels environmental stewardship through theongoing engagement ofourthird-party operating partners
andenergy consultant. Together, we address environmental considerations through quarterly meetings 
where each stakeholder canvoice their interests andneeds sothatourinvestment decisions in
environmental stewardship areholistic. Inturn, wehave invested inmany environmental conservation
measures, particularly around energy andwater efficiency. Between 2020 and2021,wemanaged toinvest
over $250,000 inenergy efficiency projects, which will garner over 900,000 kWh in energy savings and 
nearly $110,000 in annual cost savings. Presently, ourfocus isonresource management andsourcing
responsibility . In 2021, we conduct eda portfolio -wide environmental risk assessment to help us understand 
the material or significant aspects of ourenvironmental footprint. In January 2022, Chatham completed the 
construction of ahotel inLosAngeles County, built to bothCalGREEN andLEED Silver standards.
Environme ntalFocus Areas
•Environme ntalcomplian ce
•Energyconsum ption
•Greenhouse gas(“GHG”) emissions
•Waterconsum ption
•Wastegeneration
•Environme ntalstress
•Responsib leprocurement
•Environme ntaleducation
15ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
ResourceIntegrity 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 %Change (17-
21)
Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Intensity
(kgCO2epersq.ft)7.07 6.78 6.68 5.20 5.16 -27.0%
EnergyIntensity
(kilowatt-hours persquare
foot)21.49 22.86 22.32 17.54 18.31 -14.8%
WaterIntensity
(gallons peroccupied room)131.88 127.37 122.02 142.19 127.46 -3.4%
WasteIntensity (lbsper 
occupied room)- 4.06 4.48 4.09 4.24 +4.5%Our commitment to environmental stewardship is evident through our environmental performance over the past 
three years. Since 2017,wehave experienced a27%reduction inourgreenhouse gasemission intensity and14.8% 
in energy intensity. Additionally, our water intensity is also trending downward having decreased by 3.4% since 
2017.We are working to improve our waste data collection.  Since 2017, the percentage of portfolio coverage for 
waste data went from 38% to 74%.  We are working to improve our waste data coverage while at the same time 
reducing our waste intensity.
16WATER
Wework toimprove water conservation atourproperties bydeveloping 
property -level initiatives to improve efficiency or reduce water 
consumption. Common examples of our water initiatives include 
installing auto-sensors, leveraging water -saving technologies, and 
supporting our operating partners with adopting a linen and towel 
reuse program.
of our hotel properties have 
over  90% of toilets that are 
low -flush or  dual flush56% 56%
of our hotel properties have 
low -flow showerheads in 
over 90% of  guestrooms
of our hotel properties 
utilize native  or drought -
tolerant landscaping to  
reduce irrigation needs48%31%
of our hotel properties have 
smart  irrigation systems 
and/or an  automatic 
sprinkler system
17ENERGY
We develop and maintain an energy conservation program where various 
property -level initiatives are implemented across our portfolio of hotels. 
Some of those practices include adopting energy -efficient design, working 
withoperating partners tomitigate energy consumption, andidentify feasible 
and fiscally reasonable energy conservation opportunities. Ongoing energy 
conservation initiatives include energy -efficient lighting, room occupancy 
sensors, routine energyaudits, andelectric vehicle chargers install ation.
of our hotel properties 
have digital  thermostats 
in at least 90% of  
guestrooms80%77%
of our hotel properties 
have an  environmental 
management system  in 
place71%
of our hotel properties 
have digital  thermostats 
in at least 90% of  
meeting rooms
of our hotel properties
have highly efficient boilers81%92%
of our hotel properties have a  
preventative maintenance plan 
that  checks building energy & 
water  equipment at least 
quarterly
18WASTE
Wesupport ouroperating partners withaddressing waste generation andsupport 
their development ofwaste minimization programs, recycling, reduction ofsingle -
use plastics, and reduction of food waste , sensors, routine energy audits, and 
electric vehicle chargers' install ation.
72%
of our hotel 
properties have  
eliminated plastic 
straws
21%
of our hotel properties 
have  eliminated single -
use plastics or  reduce 
them to an absolute 
minimum
58%
of our hotel properties 
have  implemented a food 
waste prevention strategy
over the last year*
*asofMay  2022
Instituted mattress  
recycling program  
portfolio -wide in  
connection with all  
mattress 
replacements
19Pathway to Net Zero
The 1.5 degree or lower scenario is the global community’s accepted limitation on temperature growth to avoid potentially cat astrophic changes to 
the planet. Under this scenario, Chatham anticipates a transformational shift as business, government and society as a whole focus on decarbonizing 
the way we live and work with an eye toward net -zero by 2050. We recognize that global efforts alone will not be enough to meet the 1.5 -degree 
goal and every individual and business will need to take immediate and sustained action to prevent catastrophic consequences to the planet.
Though our company is at the beginning stages of understanding and undertaking changes in the way we operate, Chatham is curr ently evaluating the 
pathway and corresponding budgetary needs required to reduce its emissions toward net zero over the next 30 years.  Chatham’s pathway to net 
zero is in alignment with the Hotel Net Zero Methodology, First Edition December 2021. 
Overall, our target is to reach net -zero emissions across all scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2050. Our current plan is to focus o n activities through 
2030, which are managerially tangible and will have further impacts past 2030 as a result. We will report progress toward the 2030 milestone each 
and set more concrete 2025 milestones next year. Our milestones will be updated as industry best practice and expectations ev olve. 
By the end of 2022, we will develop specific and actionable targets for the Company’s environmental intensity metrics, includ inga goal to cut carbon 
emissions by 50% by 2030. Chatham further acknowledges the necessity of reaching net -zero emissions by 2050 and is committed to creating an 
organizational plan for defining our pathway to net zero. We are committed to shifting as necessary, in partnership with our customers, lawmakers 
and investors, to make whatever changes are necessary to meet this critical planetary goal. As such, we anticipate changes in building standards, 
pricing, regulation, customer preferences, low carbon products and services.  Our newly formed ESG Committee is tasked with f urther development 
of the plan for defining our path to net zero.
20Category 2030 Milestones Current Activities for 2022 and 2023
Facility Emissions • 50% absolute reduction from a 2019 baseline
• Carbon offsets tracked and disclosed as a % of 
remaining emissions, up to 7.3 kgCO2e/ SqM• Setting baseline emissions and emissions intensity for the portfolio and each property
• Setting 2030 targets for each property
• Capital planning for each property to incorporate decarbonization
• Developing a renewable energy strategy for onsite installation or PPA and Renewable energy purchase, including forecasting gr id 
decarbonization
• Engaging with operators for synergies to meet their carbon reduction targets
• Monitoring purchase of carbon offsets across the portfolio by operators, brands, and customers
• Annual surveying of energy conservation measures and attributes
• Capital planning for each property to incorporate energy efficiency
• Engaging with each hotel for annual energy reduction opportunities
• Annual portfolio -wide analysis to prioritize properties of greatest relative weight and reduction potential
• Incorporating decarbonization planning into the due diligence and modeling for acquisitions
• Externally verifying scope 1 & 2 emissionsEnergy Efficiency • Achieve a 20% reduction in energy intensity from a 
2019 baseline
Renewables • 100% of electricity will be from renewable or zero -
carbon sources, either via the grid, market purchase, 
onsite, or a combination of allCategory 2030 Milestones Current Activities for 2022 and 2023
Other Facilities and 
Operational Sources• Emissions from corporate offices vehicles owned by the 
company tracked and reduced, in alignment with property 
reductions• Identifying and starting to track other sources and set a baseline
Transmission & 
Distribution Losses• Transmission and distribution losses from electricity to our 
properties will be quantified, tracked, and reduced from a 
2019 baseline• Starting to track losses according to industry best practice to establish a baseline
• Evaluating how purchase of renewables, energy intensity, and electric power grid 
decarbonization will impact these losses by 2030.
Employee Commutes • Employee commuting will be tracked and reported 
according to industry best practice• Surveying employees to understand baseline of mode of transport, frequency of 
office commutes, and distance traveled
• Engaging with employees and community to identify opportunities
Business Travel • Emissions will be tracked and a baseline set
• Opportunities to book overnight travel at hotels powered 
by 100% renewable electricity (not within our portfolio) will 
be identified.• Setting up a tracking mechanism to capture business travel and establish 
boundaries
• Engaging with corporate travel and booking sites to identify opportunities to 
reduce the footprint, offset transport, and encourage hotels to decarbonize in 
alignment with net -zero
Upstream emissions 
of the hotel building 
and FF&E• Emissions will be accurately quantified and a baseline set, 
in line with industry best practice• Evaluating and understanding the concepts and the opportunities to engage with 
the industry
• Evaluating forms of quantifying in our properties and purchases
• Engaging with industry to improve calculation methods and data availability
Other Emissions 
from Hotel 
Operations• Emissions from waste from ongoing operations will be 
tracked, and reduced in alignment with best practice
• Emissions from outsourced laundry will be tracked, and 
reduced in alignment with best practice
• Emissions from priority categories of ongoing purchases 
will be identified with a baseline set and reduction plan in 
place• Improving tracking across the portfolio and establish baselines where possible
• Evaluating waste reduction opportunities in capex planning for each property
• Identifying sites with outsourced laundry or planned for outsourcing by 2030
• Engaging with industry to improve calculation methods and data availability, as 
well as boundaries for ongoing purchases.
• Engaging with operators to understand how they will meet 2030 targets for these 
categories and how to support
21RECYCLING SOAP BARS &  
SINGLE -USE AMENITY BOTTLES
•AtChatham, wearecommitted tosupporting ourhotel properties withminimizing their waste footprint. O neway 
ourhotels arereducing waste isbyparticipating insoap recycling through Clean theWorld –anorganization that 
recycles hotel soap andhotel amenities.
•In 2020, our Hilton -branded properties donated 55,516 bars of soap, and 50,816 amenity bottles. 
Additionally, wesupported thetransition from single -useamenity bottles tolarge pump -topped dispensers, 
which hassaved approximately 80,000 amenity bottles in2020.
•Thedonation ofsoap barsnotonlydiverts hotel waste from landfills butitalsocontributes toClean theWorld’s 
charitable efforts. That include distribution ofrepurposed soap barsandhygiene kitsforhumanitarian causes.RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT
Chatham supports Island Hospitality’s expectation of its suppliers to meet the same 
environmental and social standards as we do for ourselves. Currently, our Hilton -operated 
hotels participate intheClean theWorld soap recycling program. Moreover, in2019, ourMarriott -
operated hotels switched to pumped -topped bulk dispensers in all guestrooms. During the 
transition, existing soap bars andamenity bottles were donated toClean theWorld. Additionally, 
our operating partners work closely with Ecolab to ensure the chemicals we use are safe for 
housekeepers andguests andreduce their environmental footprint.
22In January 2022 ,Chatham completed the construction of ahotel inLosAngeles County, built to both CalGREEN and
LEED Silver standards.
Toqualify forLEED, thefollowing aspects arebeing addressed:
•Location andtransportation
•Siteselection
•Waterefficien cy
•Energyandatmosphe re
•Materials andresources
•Indoor environme ntalquality
Beyond our new development project, we are committed to sustainable design and construction practices in 
ourother business activities. With respect torenovations, wefollow therequirements setforth byouroperating
partners, including Marriott International and Hilton Worldwide, regarding sc ope and materials. Common practices 
include retrofitting andrecommissioning energy andwater fixtures.
LEEDING HOTEL DESIGN & CONSTRUCTION
23SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
24At Chatham, we believe each of our employees contributes directly to our growth and success. As such, we are firmly 
committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment since our employees’ diversity is an important 
asset forourCompany. Wealsostrive toprovide each employee withasafeandhealthy work environment, which weaim 
through setting rules foroccupational health andsafety, setting lossprevention programs, andcreating anenvironment of
open communication. Additionally, wealsostrive tocreate positive community relations inthecommunities where ourhotel 
properties operate.
Social andHuman CapitalFocusAreas
•Diversity andInclusion
•Anti-Harassment
•Occupational Health &Safety
•Anti-Trafficking
•Community Relations
25HUMAN CAPITAL
The Company believes that each of its employees is an important contributor in the success of the 
organization. Management aims to provide an inspiring, inclusive work environment where 
employees feel valued, empowered, and encouraged to make positive differences within the 
Company and throughout their communities. Chatham operates under the belief that the most 
successful management provides clear leadership, while empowering employees to make timely 
and responsible decisions and to take actions necessary to achieve exceptional operating results. 
The Company offers competitive compensation and benefits, a flexible leave policy and a culture 
that encourages balance of work and personal life.
The Company emphasizes an open -door policy for communications and conducts regular employee 
satisfaction surveys, which provide the opportunity for continuous improvement. During the 
pandemic, the Company has been focused on working safely and maintaining a safe workplace in 
compliance with cleanliness guidelines set forth by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
and in compliance with applicable Occupational Safety and Health Act standards. During 2021, all 
employees at our hotels involved in day -to-day operation were employed by Island Hospitality 
Management III, LLC, a third -party management company engaged pursuant to hotel management 
agreements. The Company is committed to the health, safety and security of hotel associates and 
guests and is proud to support the American Hotel & Lodging Association’s 5 -Star Promise.
26DIVERSE & INCLUSIVE 
WORKPLACES
The Company is committed to diversity, equity and inclusion and 
does not tolerate discrimination or harassment in the workplace. 
We are committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive environment 
that supports the development and advancement of all. We strive to 
cultivate an atmosphere of listening, learning and acting; treating 
each other as equals; showing support and respect to each other 
and our partners; and encouraging freedom of expression and 
understanding of differences. We appreciate that our employees’ 
unique viewpoints, diverse backgrounds and experiences working 
together lead us to better business outcomes and we attribute this, 
in part, to our ongoing success. The Company’s CEO has joined the 
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion initiative and personally pledge d 
to continue to advance diversity and inclusion within our workplace. 
The scope of this pledge supports equity for all, including ethnically 
or racially diverse persons, the LGBTQ community, people with 
different abilities, veterans and women. The newly formed ESG 
Committee will oversee the Company's commitment to diversity, 
equity and inclusion. 
27OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY
The health and safety of our employees are of paramount importance. Our policy is to provide a safe and 
healthy workplace andc omply withapplicable safety andhealth lawsandregulation, aswellasinternal requirements.
Wework to provide and maintain a safe, healthy, and productive workplace, in consultation with our employees, by 
addressing andremediating identified risks ofaccidents, injury, andhealth impacts. Tomaintain ahealthy andsafe
workplace, some of our focus areas include workplace security, forced labor and human trafficking, and sustainable 
and livable work hours, wages and benefits. Additionally, we pledged to the American Hotel & Lodging Association’s 
5-Star Promise in2021, having made thefollowing commitments:
•Build onourindustry’s longstanding commitment tohospitality andaPeople Culture bycontinuing to
provide industry -wide training and materials on safety and security, and retain expert guidance to work with 
theindustry ondiversity andsafety matters.
•Ensuremand atoryanti-sexualharassme ntpolicies areinplaceinmultiple languages.
•Provide ongoing training andeducation foremployees onidentifying andreporting sexual harassment.
•Provide U.S.hotel employees withemployee safety devices tohelpthem feelsafeonthejob.
•Broaden vitalpartnerships withwide-ranging national organizations thattarget sexual violence and
assault andtrafficking andpromote workplace safety.
As a Company, we aim to create sustainable livelihoods for our employees. Relating to employee compensation, 
weprovide allouremployees withaliving wage andc ompany sponsored health benefits, lifeinsurance, short -term 
disability, sicktime, vacation days, anda401(k) plan. Wealsopromote safeandhealthy work environments forthe 
workers atourhotel properties.
Highligh tsinclude:
95%
ofou r hotelpro p ertieschange   
H VA Csystem fil te rsro ut i ne l y73%
ofo u r hotelpro p erties  
specifylow-orno-VOCp aints,   
finishes,a n doth e r ite m s  for  
renovations
28SOCIAL CAPITAL
Chatham is dedicated to many causes. We especially recognize 
the need for better food security and youth empowerment in 
our community; and as such have continuously supported 
charitable organizations focused on these areas. Chatham is 
supportive to communities around our corporate headquarters, 
as well as in the communities where our hotels operate. We 
aim to promote positive community relations through all our 
business activities. In 2021, our combined Chatham and Island 
corporate employees’ giving and volunteerism has amounted to 
141 volunteer hours, 85 lbs of food donated, 1125 meals 
donated, 226 young people impacted, $5,000 raised for 
organizations.
Over the past year, we have supported the following 
organizations:
• Loggerhead Marine Life Center
• Quantum House 
• Urban Youth Impact
• Salvation Army
• Goodwill
• One Blood
• Feeding America and Feeding South Florida
_____________________________________________________
These highlights are based on a survey of 39 properties with a response rate of over 70%
29Loggerhead Marinelife Center 
Loggerhead Marinelife Center, located in Loggerhead Park, Juno Beach, Florida, is 
a sea turtle research, rehabilitation, education and conservation center. The 
Center is one of Florida's most visited non -profit scientific destinations focused on 
ocean and sea turtle conservation. We partner with Loggerhead Marinelife Center 
to support their efforts in conserving our environment and precious coastline 
through regular beach cleanups and recycling operations. These events always 
draw the largest turnout to clean up our beaches.  
30Quantum House
Quantum House is a caring and supportive home that lessens the burden for 
families whose children are receiving treatment for a serious medical 
condition in Palm Beach County, Florida. We have been a long -time partner 
with Quantum House to provide meals for families and their children while 
undergoing medical procedures. We also love to engage with the families 
through crafts and one on one time when possible. 
Chatham Hotel Properties in the Community
WerelyheavilyonIsland Hospitality Manageme nttosustain positive community relations on our 
behalf astheyoperateourhotels.Island Hospitality Management has created Island Cares, a 501(c)(3) non -profit 
organization that founded on the mission to “act responsibly and with integrity while being a great employer, 
corporate citizen, and good neighbor". Forexample, thegene ralmanager ofResiden ceInnSanDiego
Downtown/Gaslamp isanactivedirectorofTheGaslamp QuarterAssociation® (GQA), a non-profit 
501(c)6 merchants association, representing more than 400 businesses locatedwithin theboundaries of
theGaslamp Quarter.Other notable local community initiativesthatthegene ralmanagers ofourhotel
properties servevoluntarilyinclude MarriottLocalBusiness Council, Children’s Hospital fundraising, and
theNew Hampshi reLodging &Restau rantAssociation.PERFORMANCE
31Portfolio ProfileYear Ended 
December 31, 2017Year Ended 
December 31, 2018Year Ended 
December 31, 2019Year Ended 
December 31, 2020Year Ended 
December 31, 
2021
Number of Properties 40 42 40 39 41
Number of Properties in Environmental 
Performance Disclosure36 38 40 39 39
Number of Rooms 6,018 6,283 6,092 5,900 6,169
Occupancy Rate (Same property) 79.8% 80.4% 80.2% 48.2% 64.1%
Total Square Footage (for portfolio in 
environmental performance disclosure)4,138,570 4,392,019 4,649,969 4,507,859 4,507,859
Total Revenue (In thousands) $301,844 $324,230 $328,328 $144,916 $203,975
Total Operating Expenses (In thousands) $248,806 $266,078 $271,661 $207,685 $221,168
Adjusted EBITDA (In thousands) $126,698 $131,499 $130,997 $18,485 $48,438
Revenue per available room (Same 
property)$133.05 $135.59 $133.47 $57.45 $85.71
Average Daily Rate (Same Property)$166.82 $168.66 $166.47 $119.39 $132.68
EnvironmentalYear Ended December 
31, 2017Year Ended December 31, 
2018Year Ended December 
31, 2019Year Ended 
December 31, 2020Year Ended December 
31, 2021
Energy 
Intensity per Square Foot (kilowatt -hours) 21.49 22.86 22.32 17.54 18.31
Total Energy Consumption (megawatt hours) 88,937.60 100,394.30 103,804.25 79,060.42 82,527.56
Direct Energy Consumption (megawatt hours) 36,228.16 43,509.30 44,209.59 29,595.41 31,076.29
Indirect Energy Consumption (megawatt hours) 52,709.45 56,884.99 59,594.66 49,465.02 51,451.27
Percentage of Electricity from Renewable Sources 
(%)8.7% 10.3% 10.2% 12.4% 13.4%
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG)
Intensity per Square Foot (kgCO2e) 7.07 6.78 6.68 5.20 5.16
Total GHG Emissions (kgCO2e) 29,245,686 29,799,769 31,049,787 23,453,486 23,254,873
Scope 1 GHG Emissions (kgCO2e) 6,565,781 7,885,374 8,012,289 5,363,980 5,632,380
Scope 2 GHG Emissions (kgCO2e) 22,679,905 21,914,396 23,037,498 18,089,507 17,622,493PERFORMANCE (cont.)
32EnvironmentalYear Ended 
December 31, 2017Year Ended December 
31, 2018Year Ended December 
31, 2019Year Ended 
December 31, 2020Year Ended 
December 31, 2021
Water
Intensity per Occupied Room (gallons)131.88 127.37 122.02 142.19 127.46
Total Water Consumption (kilogallons)208,787 218,920 216,960 147,875 175,810
Waste
Total Waste Generated (Metric Tons)- 1,095 1,239 1,405 1,918
Waste Generated per occupied room (pounds)- 4.06 4.48 4.09 4.24
Waste Diversion Rate (%)- 25.9% 27.5% 25.9% 23.3%
SocialYear Ended 
December 31, 2017Year Ended December 
31, 2018Year Ended December 
31, 2019Year Ended 
December 31, 2020Year Ended 
December 31, 2021
Employees
Number of Employees (Chatham) 48 45 41 23 17
Gender (%)
Female 52% 53% 59% 44% 30%
Male 48% 47% 41% 56% 70%
Age (%)
Below 30 10% 9% 7% 10% 11%
Between 30 and 50 58% 55% 49% 34% 42%
Above 50 32% 36% 44% 56% 47%
Race (%)
Asian 4% 2% 2% 0% 0%
Black or African American 13% 9% 10% 4% 5%
Hispanic 2% 4% 5% 0% )%
White 81% 84% 84% 96% 95%
Other 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Board of Trustees
Number of Trustees 8 9 7 7 8
Independent Trustees (%) 87.5% 88.9% 85.7% 85.7% 87.5%
Average Age 71.6 71.3 67.1 68.1 64.5
Gender Diversity (%) 0% 11.1% 14.3% 14.3% 25.0%
Community and Giving
Cash Donations ($) $2,800 $3,150 $3,150 Not tracked $5,000
Total Volunteer Hours (#) 176 143 268 Not tracked 141
Volunteer Hours per Employee (#) 3.7 3.2 6.5 Not tracked
# of Meals Donated 130 130 130 Not tracked 1125
Value of In -kind Donations Not tracked Not tracked $4,472 Not tracked $9,814Appendix A 
GRI Content 
Index
3334Number Description Response References
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the 
organizationChatham Lodging Trust Chatham 10 -K FY2021 (PART 
I,p. 5)
102-2 Activities, 
brands, 
products, and 
servicesChatham Lodging Trust is a self -advised, publicly traded real estate 
investment trust focused primarily on investing in upscale extended -stay 
hotels and premium -branded, select -service hotels. Our high -quality hotels 
are located in major markets with high barriers to entry, near primary 
demand generators for both business and leisure guests.
As of December 31, 2021, our hotels include upscale extended -stay hotels 
that operate under the Residence Inn by Marriott® brand (seventeen hotels), 
Homewood Suites by Hilton® brand (seven hotels), and the TownePlace Suites 
by Marriott® brand (one hotel), as well as premium -branded select -service 
hotels that operate under the Courtyard by Marriott® brand (five hotels), the 
Hampton Inn or Hampton Inn and Suites by Hilton® brand (three hotels), the 
Hilton Garden Inn by Hilton® brand (four hotels), the SpringHill Suites by 
Marriott® brand (one hotel), the Hyatt Place® brand (two hotels), and all -
suite hotels that operate under the upper scale Embassy Suites® brand (one 
hotel).Chatham website home page
Chatham 10 -K FY2021 (PART I, 
p. 5)
102-3 Location of 
headquartersOur corporate headquarters and executive office are located at 222 Lakeview 
Avenue, Suite 200 West Palm Beach, Florida 33401 United States.Chatham 10 -K FY2021 (PART 
I,p. 5)
102-4 Location of 
operationsChatham operates its hotels in 16 states and the District of Columbia, 
including California (Silicon Valley, San Diego, Mountain View, Garden Grove, 
Marina del Rey), Colorado (Denver), Connecticut (Farmington), Florida 
(Orlando, Fort Lauderdale), Georgia (Savannah), Maine (Portland), 
Massachusetts (Burlington, Billerica, Dedham), Minnesota (Minneapolis), New 
Hampshire (Exeter, Portsmouth), New York (Holtsville, New Rochelle, White 
Plains), Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh), Tennessee (Nashville), Texas (Dallas, 
Houston, San Antonio, Austin), Virginia (Springfield, Vienna), Washington 
(Seattle).Chatham 10 -K FY2021 (PART I, 
p. 5)35102-5 Ownership and 
legal formSubstantially all of the Company’s assets are held by, and all of its 
operations are conducted through, the Operating Partnership. Chatham 
Lodging Trust is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and 
owns 100% of the common units of limited partnership interest in the 
Operating Partnership ("common units"). Certain of the Company's 
executive officers hold vested and unvested long -term incentive plan units 
in the Operating Partnership ("LTIP Units"), which are presented as non -
controlling interests on our consolidated balance sheets.Chatham 10 -K FY2021 (PART I, p. 5)
102-6 Markets served Silicon Valley, San Diego, DC, NH / ME, Los Angeles, Houston, Greater NY, 
Boston, Seattle, Dallas, and others.
• NH/ME: 13%
• Greater NY: 11%
• Silicon Valley: 9%
• Dallas: 7%
• Los Angeles: 7%
• Houston: 7%
• San Diego: 6%
• Washington, D.C.: 5%
• Other: 35%2021 Corporate Sustainability Report (p. 4)
102-7 Scale of 
organizationAs of December 31, 2021, the Company owned 41 hotels with an aggregate 
of 6,169 rooms located in 16 states and the District of Columbia.Chatham 10 -K FY2021 (PART I, p. 5)
102-8 Information on 
employees and 
other workersAs of February 25, 2021, we had 17 employees. All persons employed in the 
day-to-day operations of our hotels are employees of the management 
companies engaged by our TRS Lessees to operate such hotels. None of our 
employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, however, 
certain hotel level employees of IHM are represented under a collective 
bargaining agreement.Chatham 10 -K FY2021 (PART I, p. 5)36102-9 Supply chain Chatham works with its hotel brand companies, third -party operators, 
procurement partners, and strategic suppliers on environmental and 
climate change -related issues. As part of our engagement, Chatham seeks to 
share our environmental goals and procure sustainable materials to 
incorporate into our development, redevelopment, and renovation projects 
where feasible. Additionally, in 2021, we adopted a Supplier Code of 
Conduct to express our expectations of our suppliers and vendors.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p.10)
102-10 Significant changes 
to the organiz ation 
and its supply 
chainIn 2021, there were no significant changes to our organization or supply 
chain.GRI Content Index
102-11 Precautionary 
principle or 
approachOur corporate responsibility strategy takes a two -pronged approach. We set 
general sustainability commitments to continue doing well by doing good. 
To achieve these commitments, we take a strategic Environmental, Social, 
and Governance (ESG) approach to ensure that our commitments are 
addressed and achieve through our material issues. Furthermore, we 
believe that utilizing an ESG approach will bolster our corporate 
responsibility through an enhanced examination of our business impacts.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p.5 )
102-12 External initiatives See “Social Sustainability” section in the 2021 Corporate Responsibility 
Report, which outlines our Human Capital, Diverse and Inclusive Workspace, 
Anti -Harassment, Occupational Health & Safety, Anti -Trafficking, and 
Community Relations.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p. 16 -
18)
102-13 Membership of 
associationsChatham Lodging Trust is a member of NAREIT and the American Hotel & 
Lodging AssociationGRI Index37Strategy
102-14 Statement f rom 
senior
decision -makerSee the “Chairman’s Message” section of the 2021 Corporate Responsibility 
Report for a statement made by our Chairman, CEO, and President Jeffrey H. 
Fisher.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p. 2)
102-15 Key impacts, 
risks and
opportunitiesIn our 2021 10 -K, we identify risk factors that pose a significant risk to our 
business.
In 2021, we conducted a portfolio wide assessment of water risk, climate risk, 
biodiversity proximity, socio -economic indicators, and transition risk of 
regulation and policy via research of relevant local policies for the hospitality 
portfolio. Additional information on climate related risks is available in our Task 
Force for Climate -Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
In addition, Chatham's executive management team collects and formulates 
relevant data and information and shares recommendations to the Nominating 
and Corporate Governance Committee that adopts measures and reports 
periodically to the Board of Trustees. The Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee of the Board of Trustees have primary responsibility for reviewing 
and refining our ESG policies, which prescribes the implementation, 
management, and enhancement of environmental and social programs.2020 Corporate Responsibility Report (p. 7)
Task Force for Climate -Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD)
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, 
principles,
Standards, and 
norms of
behaviorAs a Company, we intend to maintain the highest standards of ethical business 
practices and compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to our business. 
In turn, we have adopted a corporate code of ethics relating to the conduct of 
our business by our employees, officers, and trustees. Furthermore, our Board of 
Trustees has established an Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and a 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee to provide organizational 
structure and to adapt to a changing business landscape sustainably.
This Code of Conduct covers a wide range of business practices and procedures 
and is intended to supplement existing policies. It is important that you read and 
understand it. It does not cover every issue that may arise, but it sets out basic 
principles to guide all employees, officers, and trustees of the Company.Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
2020 Corporate Responsibility Report (p. 8)38102-17 Mechanisms 
for advice and 
concerns about 
ethicsWe are firmly committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of 
employment and will not tolerate any illegal discrimination of harassment of any 
kind by co -workers, supervisors, customers, or vendors. This applies to recruiting, 
hiring, promotion, compensation, termination, and other employment actions. 
Examples of prohibited conduct include making derogatory comments based on 
racial or ethnic characteristics or unwelcome sexual advances.
Each employee has responsibility for maintaining a safe and healthy workplace 
for all employees by ( i) following occupational safety and health rules, (ii) 
complying with loss prevention programs and (iii) immediately reporting to the 
employee’s supervisor accidents, injuries and unsafe equipment, practices, or 
conditions.
Violence and threatening behavior are not permitted. Employees should report to 
work in condition to perform their duties, free from the influence of illegal drugs 
or alcohol. The use of illegal drugs in the workplace will not be tolerated.Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (p.4 -5)
2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p.25 )
Governance Structure
102-18 Governance 
StructureAs a Company, we intend to maintain the highest standards of ethical business 
practices and compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to our business. 
In turn, we have adopted a corporate code of ethics relating to the conduct of our 
business by our employees, officers, and trustees. Furthermore, our Board of 
Trustees has established an Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and an ESG Committee to 
provide organizational structure and to adapt to a changing business landscape 
sustainably.
In February 2022, the Board of Trustees established an Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) Committee. The ESG Committee consists of three trustees -and 
two non -trustees and provides ESG oversight to the Company and reports to the 
full Board of Trustees. This new committee oversees and advises the Board on the 
Company's goals, strategies, and commitments related to sustainability and ESG, 
including climate risks and opportunities, human rights and human capital 
management, community and social impact, and diversity and inclusion.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p.10 )39102-19 Delegating 
authorityChatham’s Board of Trustees has overall responsibility for overseeing risk 
management with a focus on the more significant risks facing the Company. The 
Board of Trustees takes an active and informed role in the Company’s risk 
management policies and strategies. At least annually, the Company’s executive 
officers who are responsible for the Company’s day -to-day risk management 
practices present to the Board of Trustees a comprehensive report on the 
material risks to the Company, including credit risk, liquidity risk, information 
security risk, and environmental risks, including climate risk. At that time, the 
management team also reviews with the Board of Trustees the Company’s risk 
mitigation policies and strategies specific to each risk that is identified.Task Force for Climate -Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD)
102-20 Executive -level 
responsibility 
for economic, 
environmental, 
and social 
topicsChatham’s Executive Officers (management) are responsible for the day -to-day 
management of risks we face, including climate risk and opportunities. The 
Officers collect and formulate relevant data and information and share 
recommendations to the Nominating and Corporate Governance (NCG) 
Committee and the ESG Committee that adopt measures and report periodically 
to the Board of Trustees. If necessary, the Board of Trustees may delegate 
specific risk management tasks to the Officers or a committee. Throughout the 
year, management monitors the Company’s risk profile and updates the Board of 
Trustees as new material risks are identified or the aspects of a risk previously 
presented to the Board of Trustees materially change. Chatham formed an ESG 
committee in 2022 that reports directly to the Board of Trustees at least 
quarterly.Task Force for Climate -Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD)
102-22 Composition of 
the highest 
governance 
body and its 
committeesChatham’s Board of Trustees is comprised of eight members, of which seven are 
independent. Board of Trustees
2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p.10 )
102-23 Chair of the 
highest
governance 
bodyChairman, Chief Executive Officer and President Jeffrey H. Fisher Board of Trustees40102-24 Nominating 
and selecting 
the highest 
governance 
bodyThe Nominating & Governance Committee (“Governance Committee”) of the Board is 
responsible for reviewing with the Board the requisite skills and characteristics of new 
Board members as vacancies occur. The Governance Committee shall also be responsible 
for reviewing with the Board, on an annual basis, an assessment of ( i) the composition of 
the Board as a whole, (ii) whether a majority of the trustees are “independent” and (iii) the 
trustees’ diversity, age, skills, and experience in the context of the Board’s needs. Nominees 
for trusteeship will be reviewed in connection with this assessment. Nominees for 
trusteeship will be selected by the Governance Committee in accordance with the policies 
and principles in its charter. The invitation to join the Board should be extended by the 
Board itself, by the Chairman of the Governance Committee and the Chairman of the Board.
The Board believes that the Board should be of sufficient size to include a range of 
substantive experience but not so large as to impede its efficient operation. The Board 
presently has eight (8) members. It is the sense of the Board that a size of six (6) to nine (9) 
is appropriate and most effective. The Board would be willing to expand to a somewhat 
larger size, however, to accommodate the availability of an outstanding candidate. The 
Board also recognizes that a change in circumstance may warrant expanding or decreasing 
the size of the Board.Charter of the Nomination and 
Governance Committee of the 
Board of Directors (p.1)
Nominating and Governance 
Committee Policy Regarding 
Qualification and Nomination of 
Director Candidates and Board 
Profile (p.1)
102-25 Conflicts of 
interestConflicts of interest are prohibited as a matter of Company policy, except under guidelines 
approved by the Board of Trustees. Any employee, officer or trustee who becomes aware of 
a conflict or a potential or apparent conflict should bring it to the attention of supervisor, 
manager, or other appropriate personnel (and should consult the procedures described in 
Section XIII of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics).Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics (p.3)
102-28 Evaluating the 
highest 
governance 
body’s 
performanceThe Board of Trustees will conduct an annual self -evaluation to determine whether it and 
its committees are functioning effectively. The Governance Committee will receive 
comments from all trustees and report annually to the Board with an assessment of the 
Board’s performance. This will be discussed with the full Board following the end of each 
fiscal year. The assessment will focus on the Board’s contribution to the Company and 
specifically focus on areas in which the Board or management believes that the Board can 
improve. The annual self -evaluation will address the performance of the board as a whole, 
each of the three committees and each of the individual Board members.Corporate Governance Guidelines41102-35 Remuneration 
policiesOur annual Proxy Statement outlines the Company’s remuneration policies. The Compensation 
Committee oversees risks relating to remuneration of our officers and employees.2021 Proxy Statement
102-36 Process for 
determining 
remunerationOur annual Proxy Statement outlines the Company’s process for determining remuneration. 2021 Proxy Statement
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of 
stakeholder 
groupsOur stakeholders include our investors, board of trustees, operating partners & hotel brands, 
tenants, employees, local communities, and suppliers.2021 Corporate 
Responsibility Report (p. 
9)
102-41 Collective 
bargaining 
agreementsNone of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, however, certain hotel 
level employees of Island Hospitality Management (IHM) are represented under a collective 
bargaining agreement.2021 Annual Report
102-42 Identifying and 
selecting 
stakeholdersOur identified stakeholders are selected by determining the groups or individuals that are directly 
impacted by our business or directly impact our company.GRI Content Index
102-43 Approach to 
stakeholder 
engagementWe recognize that our Company’s success relies on positive relations with all our stakeholders, 
including our investors, board trustees, operating partners and tenants, employees, local 
communities, and suppliers. As such, we have ongoing efforts to engage them to understand their 
interests better.2021 Corporate 
Responsibility Report (p. 
9)
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities 
included in the 
consolidated 
financial 
statementsAll properties within the Chatham portfolio are included in our Annual Report and 10 -K filing. Our 
sustainability disclosures include the properties that were in the portfolio for the entire reporting 
year.2021 Annual Report
102-46 Defining report 
content and 
topic 
boundariesReporting content that has been defined considers topics of greatest importance to our company and 
interest to our key stakeholders, including our investors.GRI Content Index
102-47 List of material 
topicsMaterial aspects are reported using the GRI Reporting Standards in the Specific Disclosures section of 
the Content Index.GRI Content Index42102-48 Restatements 
of informationN/A GRI Content Index
102-49 Changes in 
reportingN/A
102-50 Reporting 
PeriodOur reporting covers the calendar year 2021. GRI Content Index
102-51 Date of most 
recent report05/23/2022 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p. )
102-52 Reporting cycle We update our ESG disclosures on an annual basis. 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p. )
102-53 Contact point 
for questions 
regarding the 
reportChatham Lodging Trust
222 Lakeview Avenue –Suite 200
West Palm Beach, Florida 33401
561-802-4477Contact US
102-56 External 
assuranceWe are undergoing external assurance for the 2021 reporting year. GRI Content Index
2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p. 22)Management 
Approach Disclosures 
–Economic
4344Number Description Response / Disclosure References
Economic Performance
103 Management 
ApproachChatham Lodging Trust ("Chatham") is a self -advised, publicly -traded real 
estate investment trust focused primarily on investing in upscale extended -
stay hotels and premium -branded, select -service hotels. Our high -quality 
hotels are located in major markets with high barriers to entry, near primary 
demand generators for both business and leisure guests. Our primary 
objective is to generate attractive returns for our shareholders through 
investing in hotel properties at prices that provide strong returns on 
invested capital, paying meaningful dividends, and generating long -term 
value appreciation.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (pg. 4)
201-1 Direct economic 
value generated 
and distributedChatham’s total revenues for fiscal year 2021 were $203,975,000.
Economic value generated is distributed to our shareholders, employees, 
and suppliers.2021 Annual Report
201-2 Financial 
implications and 
other risks and 
opportunities due 
to climate changeChatham performs assessments throughout the Company to identify and 
effectively mitigate risks, including those related to climate change.
A list of financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 
climate change is located in our Task Force for Climate -Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD).Task Force for Climate -Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD)
Indirect Economic Impacts
203-1 Infrastructure 
investments and 
services supportedIn 2021, our combined Chatham and Island corporate employees’ giving and 
volunteerism has amounted to 141 volunteer hours, 85 lbsof food donated, 
1125 meals donated, 226 young people impacted, $5,000 raised for 
organizations.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (pg. 
19)
Anti -Corruption
205-1 Operations 
assessed for risks 
related to 
corruptionChatham regularly monitors Company operations for risks related to 
corruption.Code of Business Conduct and Ethics45205-2 Communication and 
training on anti -
corruption policies 
and proceduresFrom time to time the Company holds information and training sessions to 
promote compliance with laws, rules and regulations.Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
205-3 Confirmed incidents 
of corruption and 
actions takenNo known incidents of corruption during this reporting cycle. GRI Content Index
Management Approach Disclosures: Environmental
Number Description Response / Disclosure References
Energy
103 Management 
ApproachAt Chatham, we recognize the importance of environmental stewardship 
in driving long -term shareholder value and creating a portfolio of resilient 
hotels. We undertake a multi -stakeholder approach to our hotels' 
environmental stewardship through the ongoing engagement of our third -
party operating partners and energy consultant.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (pg.
13)
302-1 Energy 
consumption 
within the 
organizationIn 2021, total energy consumption was 82,527.56 megawatt -hours. ESG Performance
302-3 Energy intensity In 2021, total energy intensity was 18.31 kilowatt -hours per square foot. ESG Performance
302-4 Reduction of 
energy 
consumptionIn 2021, we saw a -16.4% reduction in energy consumption from 2017. ESG Performance
Water and Effluents
303-5 Water 
consumptionIn 2021, total water consumption was 175,810 kilogallons. ESG Performance
Emissions
305-1 Scope 1 emissions In 2021, scope 1 emissions were 5,632,380 kgCO2e. ESG Performance
305-2 Scope 2 emissions In 2021, scope 2 emissions 17,622,493 kgCO2e. ESG Performance
305-4 Greenhouse gas 
intensity (GHG)In 2021, greenhouse gas emissions were 5.16 kgCO2e per square foot. ESG Performance46Effluents and Waste
306-2 Waste by type and 
disposal methodIn 2021, total waste was 2,114 US tons.
1,622 US tons, or 76.7%, was Landfilled.
492 US tons, or 23.3%, was recycled.ESG Performance
Number Description Response / Disclosure References
Employment
103 Management 
ApproachAt Chatham, we believe each of our employees contributes directly to our growth and 
success. As such, we are firmly committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of 
employment since our employees' diversity is an important asset for our Company. We 
also strive to provide each employee with a safe and healthy work environment, which we 
aim through setting rules for occupational health and safety, setting loss prevention 
programs, and creating an environment of open communication. Additionally, we also 
strive to create positive community relations in the communities where our hotel 
properties operate.2021 Corporate 
Responsibility Report (pg. 
18)
401-2 Benefits provided 
to fulltime 
employees that 
are not provided 
to temporary or 
part -time 
employeesWe provide a competitive benefits package to all full -time employees, which includes 
health and welfare benefits, such as medical, dental, disability insurance and life insurance 
benefits. The plans under which these benefits are offered do not discriminate in scope, 
terms or operation in favor of officers and trustees and are available to all full -time 
employees.
We have established and plan to maintain a retirement savings plan under section 401(k) 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). All eligible employees are 
able to participate in our 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan, or 401(k) Plan, which allows such 
employees to defer a portion of their compensation, within prescribed limits, on a pre -tax 
basis through contributions to the 401(k) Plan. Our 401(k) Plan is intended to help our 
employees save a portion of their cash compensation for retirement in a tax efficient 
manner. We match employees’ annual contributions, within prescribed limits, dollar for 
dollar up to 3% of each employee’s compensation contributed and 50% of each 
employee’s contributions above such 3% threshold, up to 5% of such employee’s 
compensation. The employee matching contributions vest immediately to the employee.2022 Proxy Statement (pg. 
36)Management Approach Disclosures: Social47Occupational Health & Safety
403-6 Promotion of 
worker healthOur policy is to provide a safe and healthy workplace and comply with 
applicable safety and health laws and regulation, as well as internal 
requirements. We work to provide and maintain a safe, healthy, and 
productive workplace, in consultation with our employees, by addressing 
and remediating identified risks of accidents, injury, and health impacts. T o 
maintain a healthy and safe workplace, some of our focus areas include 
workplace security, forced labor and human trafficking, and sustainable 
and livable work hours, wages and benefits.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (pg. 
19)
403-9 Work -related 
injuriesIn 2021, Chatham did not report any work -related injuries. GRI Content Index
Training and Education
404-2 Programs for 
upgrading 
employee skills 
and transition 
assistance 
programsChatham offers its employees ongoing training on topics like to human 
trafficking, anti -harassment, safety, security and diversity.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (pg. 
19)
403-2 Percentage of 
employees 
receiving regular 
performance and 
career 
development 
reviewsAll Chatham employees receive regular performance and/or career 
development reviews. During these performance reviews, supervisors and 
employees discuss areas of improvement and opportunities for growth.GRI Index48Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-1 Diversity of 
governance bodies 
and employeesWe are firmly committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of 
employment since our employees' diversity is an important asset for our 
Company. We also strive to provide each employee with a safe and healthy 
work environment, which we aim through setting rules for occupational 
health and safety, setting loss prevention programs, and creating an 
environment of open communication. Additionally, we also strive to create 
positive community relations in the communities where our hotel 
properties operate.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (p.18)
Local Communities
413-1 Operations with 
local community 
engagement, 
impact 
assessments, and 
development 
programsThe Company prioritizes the need to invest in the communities in which 
our properties are located. In addition, we have made a significant effort to 
give back to the local charitable organizations in the West Palm Beach area, 
where our corporate office is located. In combination with IHM, we have 
engaged in a myriad of events for charitable organizations in a number of 
ways including participating in events for charity, engaging in food drives, 
and reading and providing gifts to children and families in need during the 
holidays. Our employees' volunteer efforts have directly added value to 
our local community. The Company released its 2020 Corporate 
Responsibility Report in March 2021 and supplemented it in January 2022.2022 Proxy Statement (pg. 22)49Customer Health and Safety
416-1 Assessment of the 
health and safety 
impacts of product 
and service 
categoriesThe health and safety of our employees are of paramount importance. Our 
policy is to provide a safe and healthy workplace and comply with 
applicable safety and health laws and regulation, as well as internal 
requirements. We work to provide and maintain a safe, healthy, and 
productive workplace, in consultation with our employees, by addressing 
and remediating identified risks of accidents, injury, and health impacts.
We also expect our suppliers to follow industry specific procedures and 
safeguards including health and safety inspections.2021 Corporate Responsibility Report (pg. 
19)
Supplier Code of Conduct
Customer Privacy
418-1 Total number of 
substantiated 
complaints 
regarding 
breaches of 
customer privacy 
and losses of 
customer dataNo known complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 
customer data losses were reported during the reporting cycle.GRI IndexAppendix B 
SASB Disclosures
50Code Metric Description 2021 Value
IF-RE-000.A Number of assets 39
IF-RE-000.B Leasable floor area 4,507,859 Sq Ft
IF-RE-000.C Percentage of indirectly managed assets 100%
IF-RE-000.D Average occupancy rate 64.1%51Code Metric Description 2021 Value
IF-RE-000.130a.1 Energy consumption data coverage as a percentage of total floor area 100%
IF-RE-000.130a.2 Total energy consumed by portfolio area with data coverage 297,099.21 GJ
Percentage grid electricity 100%
Percentage renewable energy 13.4%
IF-RE-000.130a.3 Like -for-like percentage change in energy consumption for the portfolio 
area with data coverage-16.8%
IF-RE-000.130a.4 Percentage of eligible portfolio that has an energy rating 23%
Percentage of eligible portfolio that is certified to ENERGY STAR 28.2%
IF-RE-000.130a.5 Description of how building energy management considerations are 
integrated into property investment analysis and operational strategyAs a hospitality REIT owner of hotel assets, we 
understand environmental impact of operations 
occurs primarily during new development, major 
renovation, and on -going operation of existing 
assets. We develop and maintain an energy 
conservation program where various property -level 
initiatives are implemented across our portfolio of 
hotels. Some of those practices include adopting 
energy -efficient design, working with operating 
partners to mitigate energy consumption, and 
identifying feasible and fiscally reasonable energy 
conservation opportunities. Ongoing energy 
conservation initiatives include energy -efficient 
lighting, room occupancy sensors, routine energy 
audits, and electric vehicle chargers installation.Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics
Energy Management52Code Metric Description 2021 Value
IF-RE-000.140a.1 Water withdrawal data coverage as a percentage of 
total floor area100%
Water withdrawal data coverage as a percentage of 
floor area in regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress22.4%
IF-RE-000.140a.2 Total water withdrawn by portfolio area with data 
coverage665.5 thousands m3
Percentage in regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress24%
IF-RE-000.140a.3 Like -for-like percentage change in water withdrawn 
for portfolio area with data coverage-18.8%
IF-RE-000.140a.4 Description of water management risks and 
discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate 
those risksWater related risks are of high importance to our 
portfolio considering that 22.4% of properties are in 
areas of high or very high -water stress. We seek to 
manage and mitigate water risk through our due 
diligence and project management processes. We 
work to improve water conservation at our 
properties by developing property -level initiatives to 
improve efficiency or reduce water consumption. 
Common examples of our water initiatives include 
installing auto -sensors, leveraging water -saving 
technologies, and supporting our operating partners 
with adopting a linen and towel reuse program. We 
also now integrate a comprehensive water risk 
assessment that allows us to judge the water risk at 
our properties’ location, including water stress, 
flood zone, and usage as it relates to price.Water Management53Code Metric Description 2021 Value
IF-RE-410a.1 Percentage of new leases that contain a cost recovery clause 
for resource efficiency -related capital improvements and 
associated leased floor area, by property subsector0%
IF-RE-410a.2 Percentage of tenants that are separately metered or sub 
metered for grid electricity and water withdrawals by property 
subsectorApproximately 8%
IF-RE-410a.3 Discussion of approach to measuring, incentivizing, and 
improving sustainability impacts of tenantsWe have engaged our third -party operating partner Island 
Hospitality Management in several ways, including quarterly 
meetings with our asset management team, collaborating with 
brands to deliver training, such as 100% of associates being trained 
to recognize signs of human trafficking at all properties. In early 
2021, we launched a sustainability survey to all the general 
managers in charge of operating our hotel properties to provide 
insight into the properties’ environmental and social factors.
With respect to our branded hotels, we work closely with Marriott 
International, Hilton Worldwide and Hyatt to follow requirements 
and guidance pertaining to environmental and social factors, such as 
waste management, water usage, building safety, and health and 
wellbeing. Additionally, we support industry collaboration and 
engagement by participating in the Cornell Hotel Sustainability 
Benchmarking (CHSB) to benchmark our environmental 
performance.Management of Tenant Sustainability Impacts54Code Metric Description 2021 Value
IF-RE-450a.1 Area of properties located in 100 -year flood zones 157,001 sq ft
IF-RE-450a.2 Description of climate change risk exposure analysis, degree 
of systematic portfolio exposure, and strategies for mitigating 
risksClimate risk assessment is conducted across all properties in the 
portfolio on an on -going basis. There are various sources which 
we use to conduct climate risk assessment and to assess climate 
risk indicators:
Temperature and Precipitation Change: We assess the changes in 
long term temperature and precipitation that will be 
observed at the location of our properties. The source 
used to determine temperature and precipitation change 
are WorldClim future data projection
Cyclone: Using the UNEP Global Risk Data Platform, we determine 
the cyclone risk our property’s location
Flood and Drought: Flood and drought risks are sourced from WRI 
Aqueduct
Sea Level Rise: Sea level rise vulnerability at 1 -6m heights is 
ascertained from Center for Remote Sensing of Ice Sheets
Results are obtained for each of the above indicator and for 
each property, after which we identify and analyze the best 
measures and initiatives to be undertaken at property and 
portfolio level.Climate Change Adaptation55Code Metric Description 2021 Value
SV-HL-160a.1 Number of Lodging Facilities Located in or Near Areas of 
Protected Conservation Status or Endangered Species HabitatProperties in proximity to protected areas:
Around half of the portfolio (20 out of 39) is within 5km (3.11 miles) 
of a recognized protected area
All properties are located within 20km (12.43 miles) of a recognized 
protected area.
Properties in proximity to threatened species:
All 40 properties are located within 50km (31.06 miles) of an IUCN 
recognized endangered or critically endangered species.
SV-HL-160a.2 Description of environmental management policies and 
practices to preserve ecosystem servicesBeing a responsible company, we recognize the need to protect 
and maintain a healthy biodiversity and to preserve the 
ecosystem. There are several measures undertaken across our 
portfolio to ensure that biodiversity is not impacted by our 
operations and that appropriate measures are in place to 
mitigate any negative impacts on biodiversity from our 
operations.
One such way is to conduct a portfolio wide biodiversity 
assessment to identify whether there are any protected areas or 
endangered species in close proximity of our properties. To do 
this, we make use of publicly available tools such as Protected 
Planet Database and Map of Life to find out the protected areas 
and endangered species in our proximity. Using these tools, we 
identify the measures and initiatives to be undertaken at 
property level to ensure that responsible visitation is promoted 
at our properties to guest and adequate training is provided to 
our staff.Ecological ImpactsAppendix C 
Task Force on Climate -
Related Financial 
Disclosures Report
5657Disclosure Response Reference
Board’s oversight of 
climate related risks 
and opportunitiesBoard of Trustees
Chatham’s Board of Trustees has overall responsibility for overseeing risk management with a 
focus on the more significant risks facing the Company. The Board of Trustees takes an active 
and informed role in the Company’s risk management policies and strategies. At least annually, 
the Company’s executive officers who are responsible for the Company’s day -to-day risk 
management practices present to the Board of Trustees a comprehensive report on the 
material risks to the Company, including credit risk, liquidity risk, information security risk, and 
environmental risks, including climate risk. At that time, the management team also reviews 
with the Board of Trustees the Company’s risk mitigation policies and strategies specific to each 
risk that is identified.
ESG Committee
In February 2022, the Board of Trustees established an Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Committee. The ESG Committee consists of three trustees -and two non -trustees and 
provides ESG oversight to the Company and reports to the full Board of Trustees. This new 
committee oversees and advises the Board on the Company's goals, strategies, and 
commitments related to sustainability and ESG, including climate risks and opportunities, 
human rights and human capital management, community and social impact, and diversity and 
inclusion. The Committee also reviews and oversees the policies and procedures used to 
prepare sustainability and ESG -related statements and disclosures, including preparation of the 
Company's annual corporate responsibility report and reviews these statements and 
disclosures before their publication. The ESG Committee meets at least quarterly. The charter 
of the ESG Committee is available on our website at www.chathamlodgingtrust.com .
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee also actively monitors risks to the Company throughout the year, and 
with the aid of Management, identifies any additional risks that need to be elevated for the full 
Board’s consideration. The Audit Committee discusses with management the Company’s major 
financial risk exposures. The Audit Committee also discusses the steps management has taken 
to monitor and control such exposures, including the Company’s risk assessment and risk 
management policies.2022 Proxy Statement
2021 Corporate Responsibility 
Report
ESG Committee Charter
Environmental PolicyGovernanceGovernance (cont.)
58Management’s role in 
assessing and 
managing climate 
related risks and 
opportunitiesChatham’s Executive Officers (management) are responsible for the day -to-day management 
of risks we face, including climate risk and opportunities. The Officers collect and formulate 
relevant data and information and share recommendations to the ESG Committee that adopts 
measures and reports periodically to the Board of Trustees. If necessary, the Board of Trustees 
may delegate specific risk management tasks to the Officers or the ESG committee. Throughout 
the year, management monitors the Company’s risk profile and updates the Board of Trustees 
as new material risks are identified or the aspects of a risk previously presented to the Board of 
Trustees materially change.2021 Corporate Responsibility 
Report
ESG Committee Charter
Strategy
Chatham faces the following climate -related risks and opportunities identified over the short, medium and long -term. For the purposes of 
assessing climate risk and opportunities we use the following time horizons: Short -term (<3 years), Medium -term (3 -6 years), and Long-term 
(>6-10 years or longer).
Disclosure Response •Reference
•Climate -
related risks 
and 
opportunities 
identified over 
the short, 
medium and 
long -term•Time Frame •Physical Climate Risk •Climate Opportunities •N/A
•Short and Medium 
Term:• Inadequate water supply
• Extreme weather events
• Building flooding from 
storm surges
• Fire damage from 
wildfires
• Poor indoor air quality
• Rising mean 
temperatures• Increased consumer preference due 
to meeting customer preferences and 
needs
• Improved emergency response 
practices resulting from 
implementation of best practices for 
extreme weather events, such as 
regularly check and improve our 
assets' adaptability to extreme events 
related to weather and climate 
(especially floods and rainfall)59Disclosure Response Reference
Climate -related 
risks and 
opportunities 
identified over the 
short, medium and 
long-termTime Frame Physical Climate Risk Climate Opportunities N/A
Short and Medium Term:
Increased building and 
operating efficiencies 
resulting from 
implementation of 
energy and water 
efficiency upgrades
Increased revenue from 
adhering to customer 
preferences for 
‘green’ hotels
Financial savings resulting 
from investments in 
renewable energy 
and efficiency (Long 
term)
Availability of low emissions 
goods and services
Increased long -term asset 
value from 
efficiency, resiliency, 
and low -carbon 
attributesTransition Climate Risk
More stringent building codes for existing 
and new buildings
Higher customer expectations for 
decarbonized travel
Expectations of business travelers for 
carbon neutral stays and meetings
Reduced demand for group travel due to 
organizational initiatives to reduce 
environmental impacts of business 
travel
Increased insurance premiums for hotels 
located in areas with high exposure 
to physical climate risk factors
Requirements to change out equipment or 
structures such as accommodation of 
electric vehicles for parking
Increased requirements for ESG disclosure 
from investors and operators
Time Frame Physical Climate Risk
Long Term or Unknown: Sea level rise
Precipitation change
Temperature change
Transition Climate Risk
Franchise brands in the portfolio are bound 
to commitments from Brand owner 
(i,e, Marriott committing to Net 
Zero)Strategy (cont.)60Impact on Business, Strategy and Financial Planning​ Our commitments to sustainability aim to integrate ESG 
factors into our Company’s value creation strategy to 
drive profitability, while positively impacting our 
stakeholders, the environment, and the communities 
where our hotel properties are located. In the short -to-
medium term, we consider one of our greatest impacts on 
business to be the transition risk/opportunity of changing 
customer preferences for decarbonized travel and hotel 
stays. This preference is taken into consideration in 
overall business strategy and planning.
In 2021, we conducted a portfolio wide assessment of 
water risk, climate risk, biodiversity proximity, socio -
economic indicators, and transition risk of regulation and 
policy via research of relevant local policies for our 
hospitality portfolio.​
Over the long -term, we consider one of our greatest 
climate risks to be temperature change and precipitation 
change, which affects the geographic location of our 
acquisitions and asset management. This risk must be 
considered throughout the life cycle of the real estate 
process from portfolio addition, ongoing asset 
management, renovation and disposition.
The physical risk of extreme weather on our buildings as a 
result of floods, wildfires and hurricanes is driving 
increased insurance premiums that must be taken in 
consideration for financial planning. We recently 
evaluated all geographical locations where Chatham 
owns assets to assess environmental and socioeconomic 
trends, which may impact our asset values in addition to 
revenue and costs in our major markets.​TCFD​Strategy (cont.)61Organizational 
Resilience and Impact 
of Different Scenarios, 
Including 2 degrees or 
lowerThe 1.5 degree or lower scenario is the global community’s accepted limitation on temperature growth to 
avoid potentially catastrophic changes to the planet. Under this scenario, Chatham anticipates a 
transformational shift as business, government and society as a whole focus on decarbonizing the way we 
live and work with an eye toward net -zero by 2050. We recognize that global efforts alone will not be 
enough to meet the 1.5 -degree goal and every individual and business will need to take immediate and 
sustained action to prevent catastrophic consequences to the planet.
Though our company is at the beginning stages of understanding and undertaking changes in the way we 
operate, Chatham is currently evaluating the pathway and corresponding budgetary needs required to 
reduce its emissions toward net zero over the next 30 years. Chatham’s pathway to net zero is in alignment 
with the Hotel Net Zero Methodology, First Edition December 2021. Overall, our target is to reach net -zero 
emissions across all scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2050. Our current plan is to focus on activities through 
2030, which are managerially tangible and will have further impacts past 2030 as a result. We will report 
progress toward the 2030 milestone each and set more concrete 2025 milestones next year. Our 
milestones will be updated as industry best practice and expectations evolve. By the end of 2022, we will 
develop specific and actionable targets for the Company’s environmental intensity metrics, including a goal 
to cut carbon emissions by 50% by 2030. Chatham further acknowledges the necessity of reaching net -zero 
emissions by 2050 and is committed to creating an organizational plan for defining our pathway to net 
zero.
We are committed to shifting as necessary, in partnership with our customers, lawmakers and investors, to 
make whatever changes are necessary to meet this critical planetary goal. As such, we anticipate changes 
in building standards, pricing, regulation, customer preferences, low carbon products and services.TCFDStrategy (cont.)Risk Management
62Disclosure Response References
Process for 
identifying and 
assessing 
climate related 
risksClimate related risks are identified at several instances during the life cycle of real estate acquisition 
and asset management. During the due diligence phase of property acquisition, Chatham identities 
properties with high -risk exposure to extreme weather events and/or geographical exposure to 
areas already facing climate change adaptation measures. Once properties are purchased, we make 
investments in resilience and planning as part of the capital budgeting process and asset planning. 
In addition, Chatham seeks to identify climate related risks to properties in day -to-day asset 
management practices so that we can develop best practices for withstanding extreme weather 
events and impacts to our buildings. In 2021, the company conducted a Sustainability Risks & 
Opportunities Assessment, which is a portfolio -wide assessment of water risk, climate risk, 
biodiversity proximity, socio -economic indicators. This assessment not only identifies risk but allows 
us to further embed risk and opportunity management into company processes such as due 
diligence and other life cycle stages of hotel ownership.2021 Corporate 
Responsibility 
Report
Processes for 
managing 
climate related 
risksChatham’s process for managing climate related risks involves planning, implementation, and 
monitoring activities around the following focus areas:
• Environmental compliance
• Energy consumption
• Greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions
• Water consumption
• Waste generation
• Environmental stress
• Responsible procurementEnvironmental Policy
2021 Corporate 
Responsibility 
Report63Integration 
into overall 
risk managem
ent​Risk management is integrated into Chatham’s operational practices in a four key ways. The 
primary area of integration is through the insurance procurement process. The company’s 
insurance brokers address specific climate risks such as flood, blizzard, hurricanes, etc. when we 
renew our insurance annually and when we buy a hotel. Secondly, each hotel has an emergency 
manual that includes procedures for addressing every kind of emergency risk that could arise, 
including those caused by the physical risks of climate change. Risk management is also addressed 
through the hotel’s compliance with brand standards. The brand standards often include minimum 
guidelines for energy and water efficiency, which support the reduction of greenhouse gas 
emissions for the property and company overall. Finally, Chatham has an Employee Handbook that 
addresses a host of social risks including corruption, bribery, and harassment.TCFD​Processes 
formanaging
climate 
related risks​The backbone of Chatham’s process for managing climate related risks is its active engagement 
with the brands and operators. Chatham has a close working relationship with its 3rd party 
operator, Island Hospitality. Island Hospitality is committed to reducing its climate impact by 
identifying energy efficiency and renewable energy opportunities. In addition, the majority 
ofChatham’s properties fall within brands with proactive sustainability initiatives to address 
climate change and climate risk. As discussed above, the ESG Committee makes decisions 
regarding the prioritization of environmental risks and the allocation of resources to the mitigation 
of such risks. Constraints in the execution of any environmental program include financial, 
technological, operational and/or regulatory constraints.​Environmental 
Policy​
2021 
Corporate Responsi
bility Report​Risk Management Cont.64Category Metric Disclosure Location
GHG Emissions Scope 1 GHG Emissions Annual ESG Performance Tables
GHG Emissions Scope 2 GHG Emissions Annual ESG Performance Tables
GHG Emissions Combined Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions Annual ESG Performance Tables
GHG Emissions GHG Emissions Intensity per Square foot Annual ESG Performance Tables
Energy Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption Annual ESG Performance Tables
Energy Total Energy Annual ESG Performance Tables
Energy Energy Intensity per Square Foot Annual ESG Performance Tables
Energy % Renewables Annual ESG Performance Tables
Water Total Water Annual ESG Performance Tables
Water Water Intensity per Occupied Room Annual ESG Performance Tables
Waste Total Waste Annual ESG Performance Tables
Waste Waste Intensity per Occupied Room Annual ESG Performance Tables
Waste Diversion rate Annual ESG Performance TablesMetrics and Targets
Metrics used by the organization to assess climate related risks and opportunities.
Chatham collects and discloses annual performance data for the following key metrics:
• Biodiversity Risk Indicators
• Proximity to IUCN protected areas
• Proximity to species recognized by the 
IUCN as critically endangered
• Socio -economic Risk Indicators
• Obesity
• Access to exercise
• Children living in poverty
• Infant mortality rate
• High school graduation rate
• Level of insurance
• Food insecurity
• Air pollution
• Unemployment
• Crime
• Access to healthcare•Climate Risk Indicators
• Drought risk
• Flood risk
• Cyclone risk
• Precipitation change
• Temperature change
• Sea level rise
• Water Risk Indicators
• Baseline water stress
• Seasonal variability
• Future water stress 2030
• Future water demand 2030
• Water risk premium
• Future water supply 2030
• Water intensity (Gallons/Sq. Ft.)
• Relative market water intensityAdditional metrics monitored in the Sustainability Risk and Opportunity Assessment65Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2021 Performance
Scope 1 5,632,380 kgCO2e
Scope 2 17,622,493 kgCO2e
Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 23,254,873 kgCO2e
Intensity per Square Foot 5.16 kgCO2e
Scope 3 Currently, we do not track Scope 3 emissions
Targets and Performance Against Targets
Chatham has been measuring its environmental performance since 2017 and is now beginning the process to set 
targets that will reduce our environmental impact while creating value for our shareholders. As described above, 
our target is to reach net -zero emissions across all Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2050. Our current plan is to focus 
on activities through 2030, which are managerially tangible and will have further impacts past 2030 as a result. We 
will report progress toward the 2030 milestone each and set more concrete 2025 milestones next year. Our 
milestones will be updated as industry best practice and expectations evolve. By the end of 2022, we will develop 
specific and actionable targets for the Company’s environmental intensity metrics, including a goal to cut carbon 
emissions by 50% by 2030. Chatham further acknowledges the necessity of reaching net -zero emissions by 2050 
and is committed to creating an organizational plan for defining our pathway to net zero.Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions561-802-4477 www.chathamlodgingtrust. com
66