i
2011 Corporate Responsibility Report4
Operational 
Excellence and Risk Management
Employees discuss 
how we manage our operations safely and reliably.3
A Message From Our CEO8
Indonesia: Partnerships in Conservation and Preservation
Our community 
programs on the island of Java protect the environment and sustain livelihoods.
Renewable Energy 1112
Colombia: 
Working With the Wayúu
While respecting one 
of Colombia’s oldest cultures, we develop energy responsibly and address local needs.
Human Rights 1718
U.S. Northeast: 
Unlocking Potential in Pennsylvania
Developing affordable 
energy begins with safe operations, environ-mental stewardship and trust with the community.
The Environment  21
Executive Interview  23Welcome
On the cover: Chevron partners with the Wayúu community in Colombia to make sure that the company’s presence on Wayúu land does not affect traditional 
life. Here (from left), Delilia Ipuana Uriana, Zaida Ipuana and Sophia Maria Epieyu are ﬁ  shing, which is a traditional livelihood for the Wayúu and provides an 
important source of food. Chevron worked with the community to develop commercial markets for their ﬁ  shing, farming and traditional handicrafts.
124
South Africa: 
From Education to Employment
The Cape Town 
Refinery works with the community to provide training and foster economic opportunity.28
California, United States: Partnerships That Inspire
Our investments in 
education contribute to economic development.
Social Investment 31
Executive Interview  3334
Nigeria: 
Transformative Investments
Our innovative 
partnerships support economic and social change to improve the quality of life.
Diversity 3738
Progress Update
We share milestones 
in our operations and communities.40
Additional Information and Data 
Performance Data
GRI and API/IPIECA Index Assurance StatementGlossaryAbout This Report Partnering for a Better Future 
We can accomplish great things when we work together. 
By building enduring partnerships, we promote mutual benefit for our business and the communities where we live and work. We dedicate our people, time and resources to working side by side with partners in many c ountries to find solutions that 
support human progress and economic development.
2“ Our goal is to ensure 
that our social investments create measurable and enduring value.”
In this report, we 
selected case studies that demonstrate our partnership and performance in geog-raphies where we do business, as well as topics associated with our approach to responsible energy development — Operational Excellence, environmental steward-ship, human rights, workforce development, health and safety, and social investment.
In an industry as complex 
as ours, we recognize that our ability to operate depends on how well we address the business, social and environmental expectations of our stakeholders. How We Chose What to Include 
in Our Report
We consult governments, 
communities, nongov-ernmental organizations, academic institutions and others to help us identify emerging issues, develop our projects, and respond effectively to evolving challenges and expectations.
We welcome your com-
ments on the content in this report and on our website at Chevron.com/CorporateResponsibility. 
Feedback can be sent to 
us at Chevron.com/Contact/EmailChevron.The Chevron Way defines who we are, what we do and what we believe. At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance.
We make this vision 
a reality by consistently putting our values into practice. The Chevron Way values distinguish us and guide our actions so that we get results the right way. Our values are integrity, trust, diversity, ingenuity, partnership, protecting people and the environment, and high performance.
To read more about The 
Chevron Way, please visit Chevron.com/ChevronWay.The Chevron Way  3A Message From Our CEO
John S. Watson
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive OfficerMay 2012
the drawing board through daily oper
ations;
•  environmental stewardship — our means of reducing our impact on our operating environments;
•  operational discipline — our approach to making certain that our employees and contractors perform every task the right way, every time.
Each falls under our Operational Excellence Management System, which guides how we manage risk through-out the company. I encourage you to read more about our approach to Operational Excellence in this report.
Managing risk well helps us maximize 
the value of the investments we make to find and produce energy. These investments are significant. Our capital and exploratory budget in 2012 is $32.7 billion, which will be invested in energy projects that will produce for decades, generate tax revenue, help create local jobs and support local businesses. 
In addition to these direct economic 
benefits, we also make significant social investments in the communities where we operate. We apply the same fundamental approach to our social investments that we apply to our capital investments. 
We work with our partners to identify 
and assess needs and to determine 
the scale and focus of investments. Our collaborative approach is rooted in business discipline and focused on outcomes. And our goal is to ensure that our social investments create measurable and enduring value, as they do in the case studies highlighted in this report.
Over the past six years, we’ve invested 
approximately $1 billion in areas essential to sustainable communities, including health, education and economic development.
It’s a matter of pride for us that 
our 57,000 employees strive to make Chevron the partner of choice by providing energy the right way and remaining a force for shared progress and prosperity.Affordable energy is a cornerstone of human progress and economic prosperity. We create value for our shareholders by providing that energy safely and reliably.
Many of our business operations 
involve risk, which we work tirelessly to mitigate. We use proc esses and 
tools guided by our Chevron Way values and designed with one goal in mind: zero incidents. 
Over the past decade, our concerted 
efforts have helped us become an industry leader in safety. But, we’re not yet incident-free. We work to learn from our incidents and those of others so that we can reach and maintain our goal of zero incidents. That is my personal commitment. And I know that the men and women of Chevron join me in committing to our world-class standards in Operational Excellence. 
At the heart of our work is an 
ongoing focus on three areas critical to operating incident-free:
•  process safety — a system to help 
recognize and reduce risks, from 
4To achieve Operational Excellence (OE), we created an Operational Excellence 
Management System (OEMS) more than a decade ago. It’s part of our culture at all levels of our business. OEMS helps us identify, manage and reduce risk; improve performance; assure compliance; and sharpen our emergency response. It is a system that sets expectations for nearly everything we do operationally and goes beyond the scope of internationally recognized management systems for environmental as well as occupational health and safety (ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001).
Our OEMS Tenets of Operation guide our workforce’s daily decisions and activities. 
These tenets are founded on two key principles: “Do it safely or not at all” and “There is always time to do it right.” For example, every person working at a Chevron facility has the authority and responsibility to stop work when witnessing any unsafe action or condition. Our goal is to have incident-free operations so that people remain safe and the environment is protected.
We strive to achieve Operational Ex cellence through our pr ocesses , standards 
and behavior with leadership action and the full involvement of our workforce. 
We are among the leaders in our industry in preventing incidents and injuries, as measured by the Total Recordable Incident Rate and the Days Away From Work Rate. Our OE platform provides us with a way to sustain high expectations and continual improvement. 
To learn more, please read our OEMS brochure at 
Chevron.com/OEMS.We focus on protecting the safety and health 
of people and the environment and conducting our operations reliably and efficiently. The systematic management of process safety, personal safety, health, the environment, reliability and efficiency to achieve world-class performance is how we define Operational Excellence.Operational Excellence and 
Risk Management
Tricia Padilla is an environmental 
specialist and Charles Odumah is a senior process engineer at Chevron’s Richmond, California, reﬁ  nery.5Striving to Achieve Operational Excellence
On any given day, more than 250,000 employees and 
contractors from varying cultural and educational back-grounds work on our project s and in our operations. 
Through disciplined implementation of our Operational Excellence Management System, our diverse work-force applies OE pr ocesses , procedures and behaviors 
in our daily operations. On the following pages, employ-ees in leadership positions share their insights about Chevron’s OEMS in action.
Reducing 
the Risk of Incidents
“   It’s been a seven-year journey to achieving zero 
incidents in Bangladesh — one that required a cultural ‘paradigm shift.’ We started with an environment that had low safety awareness. By establishing a strong leadership commitment to safety, significant oversight of contractors, continual training and effective implementation of standard proc esses — such as management 
of safe-work practices — we changed the safety culture. Now, we have accumulated more than 31 million workforce hours without a Days Away From Work injury.”
  Kinne
sh Dalal, Manager of Operational 
Ex
cellence/Health, Environment and Safety, 
Chevron Bangladesh“  We strive to reduce the risk of incidents by disciplined application of Chevron and industry process safety standards and best practices, with a particular focus on our Asset Integrity Management Program. In 2011, as part of this program, we verified the integrity of more than 8,700 critical components of our facilities, includ-ing key pressur e vess els and piping. We use the 
Chevron Risk Management Process for regular reviews of all facilities and capital projects and for action planning to reduce health, environmental and safety risks across our operations.”
  Ar
tur Custodio, Manager of Production 
Oper
ations, Chevron Angola
6Assuring 
Compliance
ImprovingPerformance“  Members of my team go in to the field to assess 
contractor knowledge and then provide immedi-
ate feedback. We collect data to help break the incident chain before incidents happen. We’ve conducted more than 14,000 safe-work-practice assessments over a two-year period, and this effort has helped us significantly reduce our Days Away From Work incidents.”
  Lane B
lanchard, Contractor Management 
A
dvisor for Health, Environment and Safety, 
U.S. Gulf of Mexico
“ In 2011, we welcomed the Australian government’s environmental approval for our Wheatstone Project in Western Australia. Because we have had unwavering support for comprehensive terrestrial and marine a ssessmen t and under-
standing of habitats and species, we have been able to show that Chevron can manage the environ-mental impacts and potential risks. Protecting the environment is a fundamental part of our Chevron Way values.”
  Andr
ew Mingst, Environmental Manager 
o
f the Wheatstone Project, Chevron Australia“ Our ultimate goal is zero incidents, so it is 
important that we learn from the past and make improvements to prevent the same incident from being repeated. We conduct reviews of all incidents and major near misses  throughout 
Chevron. We use a team of subject-matter experts to examine the root causes of the serious incidents and near mi sses in our annual Major 
Incident Study. This helps us look for common trends, determine where proc esses and pro-
cedures may need to be improved, and identify opportunities to strengthen our OE culture and leadership.”
  T
odd Levy, Vice President of Chevron Upstream“   It
’s our job in the OE audit group to verify 
that we have the right people, proc esses and 
equipment in place to mitigate risks at all levels 
of our operations — from major capital projects to daily maintenance programs. These audits are conducted at an established frequency and involve hundreds of interviews, data collection and checks that systems are in place to reduce risks. Chevron operates to the same standards around the globe, and we are always looking for ways to improve upon what we are doing to reach our goal of operating incident-free.”
  Jane F
ruin, General Manager of the 
C
orporate OE Audit Group
7Chevron’s OEMS 
Tenets of Operation
 1  Always operate within design 
and environmental limits. 
  2  Always operate in a safe and controlled condition. 
  3  Always ensure safety devices are in place and functioning. 
  4  Always follow safe work practices and procedures. 
  5  Always meet or exceed customers’ requirements. 
  6  Always maintain integrity of dedicated systems. 
  7  Always comply with all appli-cable rules and regulations. 
  8   Always address abnormal 
conditions. 
  9  Always follow written procedures for high-risk or unusual situations. 
 10  Always involve the right 
people in decisions that affect procedures and equipment.Preparing for 
Emergency Response
Response to 
Recent Incidents
In late 2011 and early 2012, Chevron 
faced two incidents. Extensive training and preparation helped the company respond quickly and effectively. In November 2011, during drilling opera-tions at our Frade deepwater project in Brazil, hydrocarbons from the well-bore reached the seafloor through seep lines. Our response significantly reduced the size of the sheen and stopped the source of the seep flow within only four days of first detection. As a result, no oil reached any shoreline.
In January 2012, a fire started aboard 
the shallow-water jack-up drilling rig KS Endeavor, which was drilling a natural gas exploration well off the coast of Nigeria. The quick implementa-tion of emergency response procedures resulted in the safe evacuation of 152 people in eight minutes. Tragically, however, the incident claimed two lives.
“  Incidents such as these are vivid reminders 
of the risks we face in our business. Our Chevron values place the highest priority on the health and safety of our workforce and the environment, and our culture of Operational Excellence challenges us daily to learn and improve from every experience and observation. We continue to strive for incident-free operations and sending our entire workforce home without injury.”
  Jim S
wartz, General Manager 
o
f Corporate Operational Excellence“  Our first priority is to prevent emergencies, such as spills and releases, but we also need to be prepared to respond to them when they do occur. Our operating units develop site-specific emergency response and business-continuity plans that address and provide resources for all significant risks. We continually train our work-force and conduct drills to improve readiness. Our tiered emergency response system includes local incident command teams supported by corporate and external resources, which we recently deployed in Brazil and Nigeria.”
  Jef
f Patry,  Manager of Emergency Response for 
C
orporate Health, Environment and Safety
8
8.7 
million
people are served by 
Chevron’s geothermal power operations in Indonesia
108
farmers are partnering with Chevron to restore forests and improve agricultural practices
30,200
trees have been planted through Chevron-supported environmental programs
Bird-watchers observe bird species inside Salak operations. During this trip, they identiﬁ  ed species that previously 
had not been recorded by the BirdLife Indonesia Association. 9to improve farming practices near the 
park and protect forests. We are also working with the farmers to preserve traditional techniques such as crop rotation and natural pest control, which are critical to sustaining crop produc-tion rates.
For Hidayat, the conservation pro-
gram helps improve his business. “The farming training has widened my perspective and provided me with knowledge about environmental protection and better agricultural practices,” he said. “Understanding organic farming by using available resources in the environment is part of this work, like using sheep’s dung for fertilizer and learning good cattle-breeding practices.” He said Chevron’s assistance in establishing farming cooperatives helps him pool resources and stabilize his income.
Business and the Environment
Our ability to operate safely in unique environments such as Mount Halimun Salak National Park demonstrates our commitment to environmental per-formance and helps us expand our business in Indonesia. We understand that people, the natural environment and our operations are interdependent. In all our major capital projects, we integrate biodiversity into our business decisions by using the environmental stewardship component of our Opera-tional Excellence Management System (OEMS). We work closely with govern-ment agencies, nongovernmental organizations and community groups to manage our operational footprint in order to protect the unique environ-ments where we are developing energy.
Mount Halimun Salak National Park is 
home to endangered species such as the Javan leopard, gibbon and hawk-eagle. These animals are often spotted inside Chevron’s Salak geothermal operations areas. We partner with the national park and local, national and international wildlife groups to protect wildlife habitats and maintain nurseries to restore trees that were used to support local businesses. Dayat Hidayat supports his three sons by growing chilis and long beans on a 1-acre (0.4-ha) plot within Indonesia’s Mount Halimun Salak National Park, the largest rainforest on the island of Java, where farms, endangered species and Chevron’s expansive Salak geo-thermal operations coexist. Our ability to work with the community to balance environmental stewardship, energy development and the community’s needs demonstrates how our partner-ships help protect the environment and sustain livelihoods.
Indonesia faces constant challenges to 
produce more crops on limited arable land without encroaching further on forestland. In areas in and around Mount Halimun Salak National Park, timber was harvested to clear new land for farming and for wood for other busin esses. In Hidayat’s village, 
three-quarters of the 2,000 residents are farmers. Hidayat and 107 farm-ers like him are working with us and our partners on a community-based environmental conservation program 
We work to increase environmental awareness 
in our operations and in the community. Indonesia: 
Partnerships in 
Conservation and Preservation10Above: At its Salak geothermal operations, Chevron has a nursery that germinates seedlings of native species to plant and maintain wit hin 
the operations area. The company also collaborates with a nearby tea plantation to plant trees along the plantation’s access ro ad.Planting 
250,000
trees is a five-year 
goal of the Green Corridor Initiative
Starting in 2011, Chevron 
engineers succ essfully 
implemented a zero-water-discharge system at our Duri heavy oil fields in Sumatra. Every day, we produce approximately 1 million barrels of water as part of our oil operations there. More than 80 percent of the produced water is used in enhanced oil recov-ery operations, while the remainder is treated and put into government-approved reservoirs Commitment Beyond Compliance: 
Zero Water Discharge
that are approximately 
1,000 feet (305 m) below the ground. Injecting the water into reservoirs is a preferred practice that eliminates any impact on natural canal systems. We plan to expand this zero-water-discharge practice to other fields in Indonesia. 
“We are among the few 
oil and gas companies in Indonesia that implement a zero-discharge policy for excess produced water,” said Ferry Martin, Chevron general manager of Health, Environment and Safety in the region. “It’s a good example of teamwork with the government and our commitment to managing our environmental foot-print. The government has asked us to share our best practices and applications with other companies. We’re proud to do that.”In our day-to-day operations, we 
follow strict policies to leave wildlife undisturbed, and we design pipelines to accommodate animal crossings. We collaborated with government authorities to minimize tree removal during pipe and well installation that was completed before the start of commercial operation in 1994. We also planted 3,000 trees inside our Salak operations area as part of a regreen-ing effort.Building a Conservation Ethic We have a long-term commitment to community-based environmental conservation programs in Indonesia. In 2002, we launched our partnership with the nonprofits Peduli Konservasi Alam Indonesia (PEKA Indonesia) and the Wildlife Trust to protect Salak Mountain’s ecosystem. PEKA’s work focused in part on environmental education and protection. At that time, PEKA reported that the illegal poaching and sale of several beetle species in and around our Salak geothermal area were destroying forests and threatening biodiversity and nearby communities’ agricultural water supply.
We continue to build upon conser-
vation programs in areas near our Salak operations, including the rural farming communities in Bogor and Sukabumi. Unemployment is high in those communities, where 60 percent of the population in the Salak area are women and youth. We partner with the nonprofit Yayasan Bina Usaha Lingkungan (YBUL) to educate farmers like Hidayat about rabbit and goat breeding as well as other alternatives that will not degrade forests or deplete the communities’ 
11Investing in renewable 
energy and energy efficiency is one of Chevron’s business strategies.
We take a pragmatic approach 
to investments, focusing on three key areas that leverage our core competencies and existing assets: our geothermal business; the profitable, commercial-scale development of next-generation biofuels; and the development of energy efficiency solutions.
Geothermal power is the most 
significant segment of our renew-able energy portfolio. We are the world’s largest geothermal power producer and have maintained operations in Indonesia and the Philippines for 30 and 40 years, respectively. Our geothermal operations generate more than 1,250 megawatts of electricity per year — enough to meet the needs of 16 million people in these two countries. 
Through our technology ven-
tures business, we partner with others to increase our knowledge of biofuels and the technology needed to transform natural raw materials into profitable, high-quality transportation fuels.Renewable 
Energy 
Learn more at Chevron.com/
EmergingEnergy.Top: The Javan hawk-eagle has a safe home 
in the Mount Halimun Salak National Park, near 
Chevron’s Salak geothermal operations. Bottom: Chili is one of the crops planted by local 
farmers near Chevron’s operations.
 To see more of our activities in Indonesia, 
watch the video at Chevron.com/CR2 011/Indonesia.
agricultural supply. Also, YBUL 
encourages traders and craftspeople to switch from making furniture from park timber to environmentally friendly, income-generating work such as cultivating vegetables and fruits — a program that contributes to local food supplies. In 2011, these programs benefited more than 1,500 people.“Chevron makes environmental protec-tion and community their priority,” said Gita Gemilang of YBUL. “Shifting the community’s dependency from forest products to other sources of income generation that could become their alternative pillar of livelihood becomes crucial in this program. Chevron’s initiative is a path to sustain-ability for farmers.”
In late 2011, we continued our support 
of conservation efforts by launching the Green Corridor Initiative, with a goal of planting 250,000 trees over five years. This effort helps restore the degraded forest that connects more than 1,200 acres (486 ha) of the ecological zone of the Mount Halimun Salak National Park forest corridor. The initiative involves more than 1,500 people, the Mount Halimun Salak National Park, foundations, universities and local nongovernmental organiza-tions. In December 2011, our employ-ees, Mount Halimun Salak National Park representatives and community members planted the first 5,000 trees. This effort is part of a much larger one by the Indonesian government to rehabilitate the country’s damaged forests and replant barren lands.
In addition to our Green Corridor 
Initiative, in 2011 we worked with local schools, government agencies and nongovernmental agencies to plant 22,200 trees outside of the park but near our operations in Bogor and Sukabumi and in the Jayanegara tea plantation. 
In 2011, the Indonesian Ministry 
of Environment honored Chevron Geothermal Salak and Chevron Geothermal Indonesia with the PROPER Gold and Green awards, respectively. The PROPER award is regarded as the most prestigious award in environmental stewardship in Indonesia. 
12Colombia:
Working With
the Wayúu13For 35 years, Chevron has worked with Wayúu communities in Colombia, 
producing energy, strengthening the communities’ capabilities and respecting local customs. Our partnership blends our ethics of safety, environmental responsibility and shared progress with important values of the region’s Wayúu people: kindness, friendliness and respect.
Jaime Epinayu (foreground) and his family are one of 600 families who participate in a Chevron-
supported social investment program for ﬁ  shermen in La Guajira in northern Colombia, 
where Chevron operates offshore and onshore natural gas ﬁ  elds in Wayúu indigenous territory.
4 million
households in Colombia 
are supplied with natural gas from Chevron’s operations172
Wayúu communities were consulted before Chevron began new exploration in 201022
farms were created through Chevron’s pilot program launched in 201114the people of La Guajira and the rest 
of Colombia.
A Long History, a Shared Future
Chevron first stepped foot in Colombia in the late 1920s to explore for oil, but it wasn’t until the 1960s that we discovered both oil and natural gas. In partnership with Colombia’s national oil company, Ecopetrol, Chevron operates and develops the offshore Chuchupa gas field as well as the onshore Ballena and Riohacha gas fields in La Guajira. We have become Colombia’s largest producer of natural gas, supplying approximately 4 million households. La Guajira supplies approximately 65 percent of the country’s natural gas. 
With natural gas reserves in decline in 
La Guajira, the national government Paul Pinedo grew up in a clan among the indigenous Wayúu people of Colombia’s coast and clearly remem-bers his first glimpse of an offshore drilling platform. “I was 10 years old and was fishing with my uncle. I asked him what it was, and he said, ‘a con-struction from an alien civilization.’ For us, we had never seen a building with electricity in the middle of the sea,” Pinedo said.
Today, Pinedo is 27 and a Chevron 
engineer, and he understands fully how the platform functions. After high school, he was unsure how he would make a living, and talking to a friend helped him gain an interest in engineering. Upon completing his college engineering degree, Pinedo started with Chevron as an intern and was trained to work on the platform that he first saw with his uncle. He said he takes pride in bridging one of Colombia’s oldest cultures and the modern world of energy development.
Pinedo’s story is a small part of a much 
larger one of how Chevron partners with the Wayúu, the national oil com-pany, the government and nongovern-mental organizations to develop energy in La Guajira, a region between Colombia and Venezuela. Pinedo said most of those in his native Epinayu clan, which includes his 27 uncles and three brothers, are not interested in leaving their community. ”They prefer fishing and farming,” said Pinedo. 
The Wayúu live in La Guajira and own 
land near our coastal operations in northern Colombia. Our relationship with the Wayúu reflects the way Pinedo bridges his two worlds. We respect local traditions, protect the environment, address community needs and advance economic oppor-tunities. Our strong partnerships help us responsibly expand our operations, resulting in benefits to our business and quality-of-life improvements for 
Above: Wayúu community leader Maria Luisa Ipuana and her neighbors partner with Chevron 
to expand their farming livelihoods and help improve their families’ nutrition.
15Increasing Opportunities 
for Education
Support for education in 
the communities where we operate is important to us. In La Guajira, we trained teachers, who have helped more than 1,500 students improve their national test scores. 
Many Wayúu youth cannot 
go to school because they live too far away. Chevron helped finance the con-struction of the Laachon Mayapo Ethno-Educational Center to serve communi-ties in rural areas of the Manaure municipality. Now 1,200 children can receive education and boarding. Also, the center provides girls with greater access to formal education. 
“Wayúu children are receiv-
ing top-level education both in Spanish and Wayúunaiki,” said Danis Cohen, an analyst for Chevron who is Wayúu. “It is an excellent alterna-tive for families to be able to send their children to this school. At Laachon, children are experiencing the best Arijuna (Western) education while keeping their ancestral background and culture.”
partnered with Chevron in 2010 to 
explore for new natural gas resources along 233 miles (375 km) between theLa Guajira shoreline and deeper ocean.
“Because of our reputation for 
environmental responsibility and our longstanding relationship with the Wayúu, we were able to move forward with this important project,” said David Bantz, president of Chevron Colombia. “It’s critically important to us that our operations embody the respect we feel for the people and their land. Our efforts reflected that commitment.”
Before beginning our exploration work 
in 2010, we spent a year consulting with 172 Wayúu communities, each of which is considered an independent government entity. We invited Wayúu leaders to visit operations and talk about their culture and concerns. Our dialogue reaffirmed the foundation for a constructive relationship. 
“The spoken word is important for 
us, and Chevron approached our com-munities like a neighbor who knocks on your door,” said Victor Manuel Epiayu, who grew up in a Wayúu clan and works for Chevron on community programs. “The Wayúu have a lot of respect for that great attitude.” 
Following our initial outreach, we imple-
mented our formal Environmental, Social and Health Imp act Assessmen t 
(ESHIA) process to evaluate potential impacts on surrounding communities, natural resources, biodiversity, air qual-ity, land use, waste management, noise and public health. The assessment was 
conducted in partnership with stake-holders to make sure that we captured and addr essed c ommunity concerns 
about reactivating natural gas fields and drilling new-development gas wells. 
From our discussions, we learned that 
we needed to change how we accessed 
Above: To support the education of Wayúu children who live far from schools, Chevron helped fund 
the construction and operation of education centers, such as the Laachon Mayapo Ethno-Educational 
Center, seen here.
our exploration site. To help ensure 
safety, trucks and other vehicles heading to Chevron facilities were diverted from Wayúu water reserves and traditional pathways to the ocean. Cables used in the process were positioned to avoid culturally sensi-tive areas. Livestock were temporarily moved from our work locations, and dirt roads were watered down to limit truck dust so that children riding bikes to school were not affected. Our exploration team also worked with local fishermen to reduce the impact of our work on their livelihoods. 
We employed more than 360 local 
people, 60 percent of whom were 
16Wayúu, to assist with the ESHIA 
process. Then we added them to our exploration team to work on project support activities. The multi-cultural team shared safety principles and practices with each other in Spanish; the local dialect, Wayúunaiki; and English.
The seismic and drilling gas project 
was completed in 2011 without injury or incident. According to the national oil company, Ecopetrol, and the Ministry of the Interior and Justice, our consultation with the commu-nities and the social and environmental processes we implemented have 
the potential to be a model for other, similar projects in Colombia.
Partners in the Community
We continue to work with Wayúu communities to identify their areas of need: infrastructure improvements, educational and health programs, sustainable agriculture and fishing industries, and support for an emerg-ing tourism industry. “Chevron understands that meaning-ful social projects are not short-term activities. They know it takes time and effort to achieve sustainable results,” said Gina Marcela Puentes of the Ecosfera Foundation, a nonprofit organization that works with the Wayúu on programs to improve their livelihood and preserve their culture. “I have seen other companies that don’t even bother to go to the ranche-
rias (Wayúu villages) to talk with the Wayúu authorities. Chevron gives the proper importance to each one of the communities and the people, and that really makes a difference.” 
To collaborate on finding new ways 
to improve the quality of life in La Guajira, Chevron became part of a 29-member Regional Commission for Competitiveness composed of unions, nongovernmental organizations and other members of civil society. We partnered with the Ecosfera Foundation to drill and develop eight drinking-water wells and improve sanitation in rural areas of the 
Above: Farmer Salvador Ipuana (foreground, left) and other Wayúu community farmers at the 
rancheria  speak with Victor Manuel Epiayu (foreground, right), who grew up in a Wayúu clan and 
works for Chevron to help implement community programs.
 To hear from Wayúu people, watch the video at Chevron.com/CR2011/Colombia.municipalities of Riohacha and Manaure, benefiting 100,000 indig-enous people. 
In the Mayapo rural area located in 
La Guajira, Wayúu communities are vulnerable to food shortages and have limited access to water, sanitation and health centers, in part because of the arid terrain. According to the 2010 Colombia Demographic and Health Survey, the rate of children facing malnutrition in La Guajira is 10 times higher than in the rest of the country. To address these needs, we built six health clinics in 2010 and launched a pilot program in 2011 that created 22 farms. By combining participation of professional farm specialists with the ancestral wisdom of the Wayúu, the project promotes the conservation of native species, the control of pests, the planting of trees for timber and the development of foliage to provide shade. 
The experimental farms have improved 
nutrition and income among partici-pants. As a result, we are working with the local governments of the remaining 150 Wayúu communities to implement similar programs. 
“Now we have options. We have food. 
Without the support of Chevron, we wouldn’t have this,” said Maria Luisa Ipuana, a Wayúu leader who benefited from the program.
Supporting a Way of Life
For Alberto Hernandez and his fellow Wayúu, fishing is a way of life. “Support by Chevron has been important for us and our families. Our fishing activities and our livelihoods are more developed and sustainable,” he said. 
The platforms we built off the coast, 
the first in 1973 and the second in 1996, naturally became reefs where the Wayúu saw an opportunity to fish, but safety concerns prevented fishing 
17around active operations. To help 
fishermen like Hernandez sustain their fishing and develop commercial markets, we created artificial reefs in deep water away from our opera-tions. Through supplying equipment such as global positioning systems, along with technical training and financial assistance, Chevron helped more than 640 fishermen in rural areas of the Manaur e municipality in 
La Guajira.
We partner with the Wayúu to sup-
port other small business enterprises. The Wayúu have a tradition of producing colorful handmade bags, hammocks and blankets. We part-nered with Jalianaya — a cooperative of Wayúu women from the Manaure municipality — to provide training and marketing support to more than 600 weavers to increase their income. 
“Our women lived off salt extraction 
and fishing. They fed on boiled fish and ate once a day, until the Chevron-led program empowered us to commer-cially exploit our crafts and have a better life,” said Maria Cristina Gomez, a leader within the Wayúu community. 
Learn more at Chevron.com/HumanRights.We replaced our Human Rights Statement with a corporate policy in 2009 to foster greater awareness of human rights issues throughout the company and enhance our capabilities to manage them. Our Human Rights Policy covers four areas relevant to our business: employees, security providers, communities and suppliers. We began deploying the policy in 2010, with full imple-mentation projected for 2013.
We formed an internal, cross-
functional, global team to guide implementation and enable en-gagement from Human Resources; Global Security; Supply Chain Management; Policy, Government and Public Affairs; Law; and Health, Environment and Safety — all of which have responsibilities for meeting our human rights commitments.
The team conducted an exten-
sive review of Chevron’s existing policies and practices, and developed additional training and guidance to deepen the company’s collective understanding and capabilities. The Danish Institute for Human Rights provided external advice.
From 2010 to 2011, we conducted 
orientation sessions with select 
executives and staff. In 2012, we will focus on deploying the updated training and guidance to relevant parts of the business.Human Rights 
Our commitment to respecting 
human rights wherever we operate is grounded in The Chevron Way, which describes our vision and values.
Above: Chevron engineer Paul Pinedo, who grew 
up in a traditional Wayúu community, studied 
petroleum engineering and is one of the few in his family to choose a nontraditional career. Below: Chevron provides training and marketing 
support to help the small businesses of tradi-tional Wayúu artisans.
18U.S. Northeast: 
Unlocking Potential 
in Pennsylvania19
446
Chevron employees work 
in western Pennsylvania60
wells were drilled in the area by Chevron in 2011700,000
acres (283,300 ha) of the Marcellus Shale are leased by Chevron
As Chevron enters western Pennsylvania to develop natural gas from 
the Marcellus Shale, the company is striving to be the partner of choice, with a focus on safe and responsible development that promotes economic growth.At the site of a reclaimed natural gas ﬁ  eld in western Pennsylvania, 
a producing well leaves a small footprint. To meet farmer Bill Jackson, watch the video at Chevron.com/CR2011/Pennsylvania.
20gas has the potential to have the big-
gest impact on our region’s economy in my lifetime,” said Oliver, a government and public affairs manager for Chevron operations in the region. According to the Pennsylvania Department of Labor & Industry, from late 2009 to early 2011, 72,000 people were hired in the core and ancillary Marcellus industries.
To encourage long-term job growth, we 
are partnering with Carnegie Science Center of Pittsburgh to launch the new Chevron Center for STEM Education and Career Development, which sup-ports science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) for students from preschool to high school in the region.
“We need talented professionals — 
engineers, geologists, geophysicists and information technology special-ists,” said Bruce Niemeyer, head of Chevron operations in the region. “This program will help enable the Pittsburgh area to remain competitive in a 21st-century global economy.”
Protecting People and the Environment
Pennsylvania’s history of oil and gas development dates back to 1859, when In Fayette County, Pennsylvania, Bill Jackson owns a dairy farm that his family founded in 1940. It’s not unusual for him to log 18-hour days tending to cattle and corn among the verdant rolling hills, rivers and forests typical of this rural area. A part of his farm is also leased for natural gas drilling.
“Natural gas is a resource that provides 
energy for the country. It’s every bit as much a part of the farm as the hay-field or the cornfield that we see above the surface,” he said.
Western Pennsylvania residents like 
Jackson share a strong work ethic. But with the decline of the steel and coal industries over the past four decades, the region has suffered economically and has seen a popula-tion decline.
In early 2011, Chevron acquired 
independent natural gas producer Atlas Energy, Inc., and began producing gas in southwestern Pennsylvania. Nearly all of the 366 employees who joined Chevron as a result of the acquisition continue to work with us today. With more than 700,000 acres (283,300 ha) under lease in the Marcellus Shale, Chevron is one of the state’s largest leaseholders. Adding to Economic Growth Marcellus natural gas can provide cleaner-burning, affordable energy, which supports energy security, regional jobs and economic growth for the United States and places like Fayette County. Chevron is helping ensure that the people of southwest-ern Pennsylvania benefit from this resource without compromising their communities or the environment.
A 2011 study by global information 
company IHS estimated that by 2015, approximately 270,000 new jobs will be created in the Marcellus region, which could also support 1.6 million jobs by 2035.
Chevron drilled 60 wells in 2011 and 
will continue to expand operations in ways that benefit local economies while limiting negative impacts. According to Jackson, “The Marcellus industry has provided a much-needed boost to the economy. The hotels and restaurants are full. It has provided jobs for well operators, truck drivers, drillers and excavators — a wide array of jobs.”
Chevron’s Trip Oliver grew up in Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, and understands the importance of this opportunity. “The development of Marcellus natural 
Above: Greg Hild (left), a Chevron business 
development manager, and Nate Calvert, a Chevron public affairs representative, review operations plans at the natural gas drilling site in Somerset County, Pennsylvania. Below: Bill Jackson has leased land on his dairy farm to Chevron for natural gas drilling.
21Colonel Edwin Drake developed the 
world’s first commercial oil well at a depth of 69 feet (21 m). The energy industry has long known about huge gas resources trapped in shale rock thousands of feet deep across the United States. But only in the past decade have energy companies com-bined two established technologies — hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling — to succ essfully unlock this 
resource in the face of increased energy demand.
“Permission to operate depends on 
our ability to do business responsibly. Protecting land, water and commu-nities is our highest priority,” said Niemeyer. “After the decline of this region’s coal mining and steel industries, people here worked hard to clean up the environment. Western Pennsylvanians don’t want to give that up.”
To foster dialogue between the com-
pany and local communities, we began work in 2011 to create an external advi-sory council in Fayette County. The council was established in early 2012, and we have plans to create additional councils in other areas. We participate in informational meetings, display our exploration and production equipment at county fairs and other events, and offer media tours of well sites. Resi-dents also can ask questions or express concerns through a community hotline.
After acquiring Atlas, Chevron moved 
quickly to share best safety and environmental practices with the new employees and contractors, using our Operational Excellence Manage-ment System and underscoring our commitment to safe and responsible operations. “We acquired Atlas on a Friday, and by Saturday morning, we sent an internal team of experts to meet with key contractors to discuss safety and environmental stewardship,” said Niemeyer. “During our first full week, we hosted Chevron environ-We recognize the 
value of fresh water as a fundamental environmental and economic resource.
As users of this critical natural 
resource, we must manage water for the good of society, ecosystems and industry, which includes improving our water-use efficiency.
Chevron is committed to prevent-
ing groundwater contamination and spills, and meeting or surpass-ing all regulatory and compliance requirements. 
To help enable the availability 
of safe and reliable freshwater resources, we developed an integrated corporatewide fresh-water strategy that supports responsible water stewardship and management. This strategy begins with prevention and focuses on integrated practices that include well design and integrity, construction controls, water use, handling, recycling, and disposal.The 
Environment
Read our freshwater position state-
ment at Chevron.com/FreshWater.mental and safety professionals from other oper
ations to share best prac-
tices and identify opportunities for improvement.” Chevron currently is working with regulators to strengthen regulations and with other energy producers to establish and enhance safety practices.
Native Pennsylvanian Bryan Hajos 
worked for Atlas for four years and is now a safe-work advisor for Chevron. Hajos trains contractors and former Atlas employees in Chevron’s safety culture and procedures. One of our many tools used to drive safety per-formance is the five-step stop-work authority: Stop the unsafe or at-risk act, notify a supervisor, involve the right people in addressing the issue, resume work when the issue has been resolved and share what is learned.
“We used stop-work authority to halt 
a project to shore up a leased road, which delayed the project, but made the road safer,” said Hajos. “With stop-work authority, contractors and employees don’t need to explain lost productivity or time. New procedures, training and values are creating a positive experience where everyone is looking out for each other.”
Operating Responsibly
“It only takes 10 seconds to scare peo-ple about the perceived risks of energy development, but it takes months or years to correct those misperceptions,” said Oliver. “It’s critical to communicate with southwestern Pennsylvanians about our proven approach to unlock-ing natural gas from under their land.”
Producing gas from shale involves 
injecting water and special fluids into rock thousands of feet below the surface and the groundwater aquifers. A mixture of water and sand makes up more than 99 percent of the fluid, and chemical components are less than 1 percent. On FracFocus.org, a 22voluntary disclosure mechanism, we 
disclose the chemical additives of the fracturing fluids used in our wells. Our wells are designed, drilled and installed to protect the groundwater during hydraulic fracturing and over the life of the well, which can be 30 to 50 years long.
In Pennsylvania, we use a combination 
of up to eight layers of steel casing and cement, which forms a continuous barrier between the well and any groundwater. Gr oundwater aquifers are typically no deeper than 350 feet (107 m), while hydraulic fracturing operations take  place at approximately 
7,500 feet (2,286 m) to 8,500 feet 
(2,591 m) below the surface. We con-duct a series of tests over the life of the well to verify long-term integrity.
Our operations adhere to the com-
pany’s position statement on fresh water to safely and responsibly man-age fracturing fluids, wastewater and produced water. We test all private wells used for drinking water within 3,000 feet (914 m) of the proposed drilling location and provide test results to the owner of each well and to the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. To improve the industry’s transparency on water quality monitoring, the Marcellus Shale Coalition is developing a public database in which companies will post results.
Bill Jackson has the understanding 
that we hope others will gain as we inform them about our safety measures. “Agriculture is our liveli-hood, and we wouldn’t do anything to endanger that livelihood, whether it’s the cows or the crops,” he said. “Our cows are fed off a spring, which was one of our early concerns. We’ve had it tested regularly, and nothing has changed.”
Chevron is also working to reduce truck 
traffic. A typical well needs approxi-mately 1,200 truckloads of water for drilling and completions activities, which will increase truck trips over Pennsylvania’s rural roads. We are recycling water to reduce the number of trucks and emissions, and truck drivers are undergoing safety training. We also work with local officials to determine the best routes. 
“When we are finished at a well site, 
we leave the roads we used for access in the same condition as or better than when we arrived,” Oliver said. 
Many residents like Bryan Hajos hope 
Chevron can help reverse a decades-long trend in Pennsylvania. “In the past 20 years, you’d go to college here and go somewhere else to find a job. Now people like my friends and me, who grew up here, have a chance to go to school here, stay in the community and work for a world-class organiza-tion. Chevron is breathing new life into the community.” Chevron Wells in Pennsylvania Are Designed to Safeguard 
Groundwater With up to Eight Layers of Protection
1 FT = 0.3048 METER
MARCELLUS LATERAL LENGTH: 2,000–5,000 FEETTop of Marcellus Shale > 7,000 Feet (1.3 Mile) From Groundwater
8,0007,0006,0000 FT
5,0004,0003,0002,0001,000500Well 
SiteCoalSeam Municipal WaterWellPrivate WaterWell
2,700 FTAvg. Depth of 
Casing for Hole Stability & Well ControlAvg. Maximum 
Depth of Groundwater
350 FT
Avg. Maximum Depth of Coal Seam
700 FTSTEEL 
CASINGCEMENT BARRIERS
Casing for 
Groundwater 
Protection
Casing for Coal 
Seam Isolation 
& Protection
Casing for Hole 
Stability & Well 
Control
Production Casing 
Cemented for 
Entire Length 
of WellboreFresh Groundwater Aquifers23Executive Interview
Wes Lohec
Vice President for Health,
Environment and Safety
What challenges 
does Chevron face?
Perhaps the biggest challenge is 
also our biggest opportunity — to improve community awareness and understanding about how we operate.
The discussion of natural gas from 
shale has been clouded by complex, conflicting and sometimes inaccurate information about the technologies we use. 
Every day we work to build trust with 
communities and other stakeholders, knowing that trust can come onlyfrom operating safely and responsibly 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.How is Chevron address-
ing these challenges?
Chevron may be new to the Marcellus 
Shale, but we have been using and advancing the foundation technologies for decades. From the day we acquired Atlas Energy, we have focused on applying our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) to our Marcellus operations.
This starts with our robust well design 
and drilling practices. We focus on water management, including working to recycle most of the water we use onsite. This reduces our freshwater consumption as well as our need for trucking and disposal. All of these practices aim to manage our environ-mental footprint and the impact of our activities on the community.
Stakeholder and community engage-
ment is another core component of our OEMS. We are learning from local communities about their concerns and sharing information about our opera-tions. In addition, we are committed to disclosing the chemical additives for all our new gas wells in the Marcellus Shale on the publicly available FracFocus (www.fracfocus.org) website. Why is natural gas 
from shale important to Chevron and world energy supplies?
Natural gas from shale is dramatically 
changing the gas supply landscape in the United States — boosting reserves and providing a supply of safe, clean, affordable energy.
It is the fastest-growing source of 
natural gas in the United States and could become a major global energy source. Natural gas from shale has grown to about 25 percent of U.S. gas production in just a decade, and according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, it will be nearly 50 percent by 2035.
The development of this resource 
is creating thousands of jobs, improving energy security and lowering GHG emissions from electricity production.
Our U.S. investments have positioned 
us to become a leading developer of domestic shale gas. We also are exploring opportunities to develop natural gas from shale in Canada and central Europe.24For Thembakazi Sidumo, a welder-
in-training from the disadvantaged community of Du Noon in Cape Town, South Africa, the new skills she is learning provide a way to forge a new life.
“Now that I am going to get my weld-
ing certificate, I feel like I can walk through any door and I can do the job,” said Sidumo, a contractor whose optimism belies her residence amid the estimated 100,000 living in Du Noon, where illiteracy is common. “It is very challenging out there for a woman. But women can do it,” she said with a smile, “as well as men can do it.” 
The skills training programs that she 
and hundreds of other community members are participating in provide training for employment opportunities at refineries and other industries in the region. They are the result of a part-nership between Chevron, government entities and local community-based organizations. With unemployment estimated at 25 percent in South Africa and 50 percent in Du Noon, these programs provide value to residents throughout the region and are building blocks for a better life. 
In 2011, Chevron South Africa cel-
ebrated milestones that encourage aspirations for the future. We marked 100 years of operations in the coun-try, the Caltex brand commemorated 75 years and the Cape Town Refinery celebrated 45 years. During the past century, we have become a leading refiner and marketer of petroleum products in South Africa. We are one of the country’s top five petroleum brands, and nearly one-quarter of Chevron’s Caltex service stations are in the country. We have 1,000 employees in South Africa and have approximately 440 employees at our Cape Town Refinery. We also hire contractors, like Sidumo, and many businesses that 
support refinery operations.
Our longevity in South Africa gives us 
an important stake in the community, as the nation’s journey of social, politi-cal and economic change unfolds. Chevron was among the first support-ers of the Sullivan Principles in 1977, which called for equal treatment of employees regardless of race. That year, 40 percent of our more than 700 black workers were moved into refinery jobs traditionally held by whites. Today, more than 75 percent of our employees at the refinery are black.
“We recognize that our business 
success is linked to society’s progress,” said Steven Parker, general manager of Chevron’s Cape Town Refinery. “For South Africa to achieve high levels of economic growth and address the challenges of poverty and inequal-ity, it is vital that we help advance 
South Africa: 
Our commitment to developing trade skills in the 
communities near our Cape Town, South Africa, refinery fosters social and economic opportunity.From Education to 
Employment2598%
of Chevron employees 
in the country are South African
Msingathi Camagu, a mechanical fitter trainee, is learning 
how to set a pump shaft in a center lathe for machining from Chevron machinist Francois Roux.100
years of operations in 
South Africa was cele-brated by Chevron in 2011240
individuals participated in Chevron-supported training programs in 201126Transforming Turnarounds
Chevron is focused on being the partner of choice in the community by actively participating in the development of the country. Our Cape Town Refinery supports the community skills training programs for refinery “turnarounds” as a way to reverse inequities brought on by the apartheid system.
A turnaround is a planned, periodic 
shutdown of a refinery to perform maintenance, test and replace materials, and repair equipment. Turnarounds occur periodically at the Cape Town Refinery. They take months to plan and up to two months to complete. They are necessary to maintain safety, improve efficiency and reliability, and sometimes expand capacity. This type of maintenance requires 1,000 to 2,000 qualified contractors, depending on the work needed. Understanding Chevron’s safety culture and proc esses is ess en-
tial to the work and helps build upon the refinery’s safety record. In 2011, there were no Days Away From Work injuries during 4.25 million hours on the job.
Contractors working on turnarounds 
undergo Chevron’s comprehensive safety training, which includes safe-work practices, haz ard assessmen t, 
equipment training and many other elements. Contractors participate in our Fitness for Duty program, which confirms their ability to safely perform essential physical and 
cognitive requirements of the job without risk to themselves, others or the environment. And a safety “boot camp” is held for contractors on the day work begins.
Turnarounds are very visible to 
the local community. Many people approach Chevron asking for the opportunity to work, but very few have the basic skills necessary for partnerships that share the vision of a skilled and capable workforce.”
Responding to Change
The country is undergoing a historic transition to address the systematic exclusion of the majority of South Africans from full participation in the economy, particularly black South Africans, people with disabilities and women. The South African govern-ment policy on these changes is called “transformation.”
“It’s important for all people in the 
community that companies like Chevron are doing the right thing when it comes to transformation. Everyone is aware that the whole nation is on a journey,” said Parker.
The South African government 
established the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Act in an attempt to improve economic opportunities. Companies must provide their audited BBBEE score card rating when bidding for business, and the rating directly influences the award-ing of contracts and trading licenses. The score card measures companies’ performance in key areas, including skills training, employment equity, enterprise development, preferential procurement, socioeconomic develop-ment, ownership/shareholding and management.
The company was recognized for its 
commitment to transformation in the country. A 2011 independent BBBEE audit by Empowerdex found Chevron South Africa to be one of the lead-ing companies redressing historical imbalances in the petroleum industry. Chevron South Africa places a strong emphasis on capacity building through proactive recruitment, development, coaching and internal promotion of people from diverse backgrounds.
In 2011, the 
refinery achieved
4.25 million 
work hours without a Days Away From Work injury
Above, from top: Bongani Zuma and Thembakazi 
Sidumo are learning welding and other skills through a Chevron partnership with the govern-ment and community organizations to provide training in skills needed for the oil, gas and chemical industries.
 To meet the trainees, watch the video at 
Chevron.com/CR2011/SouthAfrica.
27such work. The World Economic 
Forum’s 2008–2009 Global Competitiveness Report cited an “inadequately educated workforce” as the primary problematic factor for doing business in South Africa.
To address this issue, the refinery’s 
Community Advisory Panel — a Chevron-initiated and supported monthly forum in which the company and community leaders share information, define needs and plan social investment projects — helped develop the skills training programs designed for refinery turnarounds. To implement the training programs, we collaborated with community leaders to form a partnership between the government, the Chevron refinery and local organizations. 
One program — a six-week appren-
ticeship course conducted by Empro Training Services Ltd., known as Emprotrain — was formed to assist in skills training for the oil, gas and chemical manufacturing industries. Students learn about safety principles and standards, rigging and piping, permitting, hand and power tools, and other aspects of turnaround work. Grants from Chevron and from the government’s Chemical Industries Education and Training Authority (CHIETA) support this program. In 2011, 240 people participated. 
“Chevron is very receptive to addressing the poor work readiness of the many unemployed youth in the country,” said Roger Adriaanse, regional skills advisor at CHIETA. “They have opened their doors as a host employer for many young people leaving formal secondary and tertiary education and entering the labor market for the first time. The partner-ship has addr essed the continuing 
skills shortages in the artisanal, technical and professional f ields that are fundamental to the development and growth of the economy.”
Another partnership, with Northlink 
College, a nearby government-run college, provides a yearlong full-time course to train fully qualified artisans. This program includes three months of training at the Chevron refinery. Participants become skilled electricians, welders, steel fabricators or mechanical fitters. In early 2012, 23 graduates — including Sidumo, seven other women and 15 men — were hired by contractors to work on a Chevron refinery turnaround.
“The Northlink program provides 
young persons with an opportunity to learn skills that will enable them to find employment at the refinery during shutdowns and further apply for work in an engineering environment. Chevron wants to play an active part in alleviating the skills shortage in South Africa,” said Dion Miller, Northlink program manager.
“Chevron is a reputable organization 
in the industry, so the people who participate in the skills development initiatives become extremely market-able and sought after once they exit the programs,” said Adriaanse. “Once gainfully employed, learners can provide for themselves without having to rely on others. They are now able to support their families, and their earnings are plowed back into the community in which they reside.” 
Above: Marilyn Jafta and other participants in the six-week-long Basic Trade Skills Program 
become qualified to apply for work on refinery maintenance shutdowns. 
28Sophomore students at Bakersﬁ  eld High School in California cheer for their respective solar-powered, 
hydrogen-fuel-cell robotic cars in a test of the cars’ effectiveness and speed. Through Chevron’s partnership 
with Project Lead The Way, students apply academic engineering and technology concepts in real-world ways.Our investment in science, technology, engineering 
and math (STEM) education is an investment in California’s economic future.
$100
million
is the approximate 
amount Chevron invested in education in the U.S. from 2009 to 2011528,000
California students were reached by Chevron-supported STEM programs over the past two years6,600
teachers benefited from Chevron-funded programs over the past two yearsPartnerships 
That InspireCalifornia, United States: 2930Chevron’s University 
Partnership Program (UPP) works with colleges and universities around the world to provide scholarships, grants and departmental support. UPP funds faculty posi-tions, builds labs, and helps its partners attract and develop talented students and teachers. 
Our partnerships include 
an emphasis on engineer-ing programs at schools such as the University of California, Davis (UC Davis), where Jim Davis, presi-dent of Chevron Energy Solutions Co., serves on the board of the university’s Energy Efficiency Center. In Partnering With Higher Education
addition to yearly support reaching up to $500,000, Chevron also provided a $2.5 million endowment for a permanent energy efficiency chair to run the center.
“Chevron has been a critical 
partner in helping UC Davis attract and retain more students in STEM fields,” said Enrique Lavernia, dean of UC Davis College of Engineering. “They provide internship and job oppor-tunities for our graduates. Their staff make frequent visits to campus, partici-pating in employment and professional development opportunities, helping our students recognize the real-world potential of their academic work.” 
In the past five years, 
Chevron has hired 500 full-time employees and another 500 interns from California universities. Eighty percent of those hires were in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math — the STEM subjects. For us, supporting STEM is a business imperative.
Below: UC Davis doctoral can-
didate Tarit Nimmanwudipong studies the high-pressure reactor system in the cataly-sis research laboratory. The equipment is partially funded by Chevron. 
After Bricen launched the rudimen-
tary rocket he had built at Chevron Engineering Camp, the Fruitvale Junior High School student from Kern County, California, thrust his arms skyward in triumph. 
“It went really good, better than I had 
expected,” he said with a smile. “At first the parachute wasn’t going to come out, but right at the last second, it came out and floated down really fast.” 
The rocket launch was the culmina-
tion of a weeklong program involving local teachers and Chevron volunteers to generate excitement among young people about science, technology, engineering and math — collectively referred to as STEM. It is one example of how our investments in California’s future are producing results. Above, top: During Chevron Engineering 
Camp in Bakersfield, California, students observe the water rockets that were launched to measure specific laws of physics, such as trajectory and velocity. Bottom: Co–presenting sponsors Chevron and the University of California, San Francisco, supported more than a hundred events at the first weeklong, Bay Area–wide Science Festival.
Headquartered in California, Chevron 
is the state’s largest company and a critical driver of its economy. In California, we employ approximately 10,000 people full time. For every job we create, nearly six more jobs result, either directly related to the energy business or in other services. We understand that the most impor-tant source of energy here is our people. Few factors are more critical to California’s — and Chevron’s — ability to compete in the global econ-omy than nurturing talent in STEM. We recognize that education is a basic building block that contributes 
31Visit Chevron.com/SocialInvestment.Across our operations, we work with our 
stakeholders, building long-term partnerships that foster economic development and lasting benefits to communities. Social Investment to economic development and sus-
tained prosperity. 
“The most important challenge for 
California’s economy over the long term is making sure we create our own indigenous STEM human capital inside the state,” said Ross DeVol, chief economist with the Milken Institute, a California-based economic think tank. “That’s why programs like the ones Chevron funds are critically important.”
The need to invest in STEM education 
is growing across the United States. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that 15 of the 20 fastest-growing occupations in 2014 will require science or math knowledge. California matches that statistic for the 50 fastest-gro wing occupations. 
At the same time, the state ranks below 
the national average in per-student spending, has the highest number of students per teacher, and placed 47th out of 50 states in math scores among eighth-grade students.
In the United States, Chevron invested 
nearly $100 million in education over the past three years alone. In California, more than half a million students and 6,600 teachers benefited from Chevron-funded STEM education programs in the past two years, including professional development programs for nearly 1,000 teachers. Our support also helped nonprofits introduce new STEM curriculum and hundreds of new STEM activities and programs into California’s public schools, and provided some 13,000 new STEM resources for students, including scholarships, science and robotics kits, computers, and lab equipment.
“We’re working to cultivate the 
next generation of mathematicians, scientists and innovators by forming partnerships, harnessing the power of human capital and implementing new approaches,” said Linda Padon,   The three main focus areas of our 
s
ocial investments are education, 
health and economic development. All three are key to improving the quality of life. The following are a few examples.
•  Chevron’s Energy for Learning program has reached the educational lives of thousands of children and adults world-wide. We support education and training programs in China, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the United States.
•  In the area of health, Chevron has pledged $20 million over five years to a global plan to eliminate mother-to-child transmission of HIV, taking our commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS and our partnership with the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to a new level. We support awareness, prevention, testing and treatment programs in Angola, Indonesia, Nigeria, the Philippines, South Africa and Thailand.
•  In 2011, we initiated a five-year social investment program to support the people of Liberia. The Chevron-Liberia Economic Development Initiative is designed to deliver sustainable benefits to women, children and youth through education, enterprise development and health. By year-end, we had helped fund 36 projects in hospitals, vocational training centers, schools and communities.
  Chevron placed in the Top 10 in Fortune magazine’s March 2012 list of companies most admired for social responsibility, and first among its peers in the petroleum refining industry.
Social Investment Spending
In millions
 06 07 08 09 10 11 YEAR$209
$119
$91$156
$144$19732general manager of Corporate Public 
Policy for Chevron.
Supporting Nonprofit 
OrganizationsIn 2009, we created the California Partnership, an ongoing initiative to invest in economic development and STEM education, with a focus on underserved communities where we have operations across our home state. Nonprofit organizations and multiple public school districts across California benefit. Organizations that are selected to participate have demonstrated innovative approaches with proven track records for delivering economic and educational benefits to those in need.
One of the organizations we support 
within California and other U.S. states is Project Lead The Way, a national provider of rigorous STEM education for middle school and high school students. In California, the Project Lead The Way program has grown by about 35 percent in each of the past three years and now serves more than 30,000 students in 276 schools and 115 school districts. 
“Ninety percent of students with 
experience in Project Lead The Way who enter a four-year engineering program graduate, whereas that rate is 50 percent for those who do not,” said Project Lead The Way’s Bruce Westermo. “Our partnership with Chevron works to increase the number and quality of engineers and technologists.” 
Chevron supports Project Lead The 
Way in regions near company facilities in Bakersfield, El Segundo, Sacra-mento, Richmond and other parts of California. We invest ed in an expansion 
of Project Lead The Way curriculum from one school to eight schools near our Bakersfield facility in Kern County, benefiting nearly 700 students.In California alone,
1.1 million
STEM-related 
jobs will need to be filled by 2018Inspiring Students Through 
Hands-on ExperienceIn Richmond, California, our California Partnership has brought new hands-on learning opportunities to students. Richmond High School used Chevron funding to introduce Project Lead The Way curriculum to their Engineering Academy. The city of Richmond, the West Contra Costa Unified School District and Chevron also collaborated to fund and install a computer lab at the school to support Project Lead The Way activities.
Bruce Harter, the West Contra Costa 
superintendent of schools, noted, “This computer lab is a great exam-ple of how the public and private sectors can work and cooperate with each other to have a huge impact on people’s lives. It will feed a real hunger among many of our students for advanced classes and training.”
We also invest in Richmond High School’s after-school robotics program. Students in the program participate in national competitions. At the 2011 Bay Area Science Festival, the students showcased Chompy the Robot to more than 15,000 visitors at the Chevron Exploration Village.
Beyond Chevron’s financial investments 
in education, the company matches employees’ contributions to nonprofits, and employees volunteer to help students through Chevron Humankind, our U.S. employee and retiree giving and volunteer program. 
Chevron automation engineer 
Brandon Carey volunteers on STEM programs in Bakersfield. “I’m excited to get engaged with the younger students and get those individuals to see how fun it is to be involved in this type of work. Early engagement helps prepare them to be of great value to the community.” 
Above: To interest students in engineering, 
Chevron facilities engineer Brande Hubbard ex-plains how the skills the students learn in design and construction relate to her job at Chevron.
 Watch students build robotic cars at 
Chevron.com/CR2011/California.
At the heart of our efforts in California 
is a focus on multisector partnerships to improve STEM education. Chevron pro-vides funding for the Young Innovators Club in Kern County. The after-school program is a collaboration between Taft College and Lincoln Junior High School that reinforces STEM concepts students learn in Project Lead The Way classes. St udents use computer 
software for 3-D modeling; build robots and airplanes; and learn about energy, the environment and physics. Teachers at Lincoln have access to extra class-room resources thanks to Chevron’s statewide partnership with the online nonprofit DonorsChoose.org.
33Joe Laymon
Vice President for Human Resources, 
Medical and Security
What will help meet 
this challenge?
Recent studies highlight that 
the success of STEM education will determine whether a country will have the needed technical capacity to meet challenges in areas such as energy, health, environmental pro-tection and national security.
A healthy STEM education pipeline 
spanning preschool through higher education is critical to producing a workforce that can compete in the global marketplace. It will train the future scientists, engineers, mathe-maticians and innovators needed to develop ideas and products, and help improve economic standing. 
These STEM workers will continue 
to be a vital part of all countries’ economies. How is Chevron address-
ing this challenge?
We believe three things are critical to 
advance STEM education.
First, we must work together through 
collaborative partnerships, such as our partnership with Project Lead The Way, which encourages the develop-ment of problem-solving skills, critical thinking, and creative reasoning through a rigorous STEM curriculum in middle and high schools.
Second, we believe in the power of 
human capital. In our partnership with Techbridge, a U.S. nonprofit that encourages young women to study science and engineering, Chevron employees serve as role models. We also help provide after-school and summer science curriculum. 
Third, we believe in coordinated, inte-
grated approaches. Chevron works across sectors — with nonprofits, governmental organizations, univer-sities and regional forums — to increase STEM education opportunities for young people. We recognize that students, parent s, businesses and 
government all have roles to play.What human 
resource challenges does Chevron face?
One of our challenges is getting 
people with the right skills in the right place at the right time. 
The people who design and run 
the engineering marvels that bring us energy have one thing in common — they’re strong in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) skills. So it’s a business imperative that we’re dedicated to creating a pipeline for hiring and nurturing people with such talent.
Over the past five years, we’ve hired 
an average of 5,000 people a year, most of whom have been hired outside the United States. Once they’re on board, we continue developing their experience and technical skills.
But our need for human capital requires 
us to look beyond our company and to our communities. Wherever we operate, we actively focus on the kind of education — the STEM subjects — that most directly leads to the highly skilled workers who help our business grow and prosper.Executive Interview
34Nigeria’s complex socioeconomic 
challenges are as diverse as its coastal plains, tropical forests and rugged highlands. Chevron has been operat-ing in Africa’s most populous country for 50 years. During this time, we have forged succ essful partnerships and 
given support to address the problems of social instability, poverty and disease that have gripped the Niger Delta region, where we conduct the bulk of our operations in the country. 
One of our longstanding social invest-
ments in the Niger Delta is our Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMOU) program with local communi-ties. The GMOUs were initiated in 2005 to give communities greater roles in the management of their own development through the collective setting of priorities, identification of employment and contracting opportu-nities, and management of conflict. 
Since their inception, the GMOUs 
we signed with eight Regional Development Committees (RDCs) in the Niger Delta have delivered more than 200 projects in 425 communities, villages and chiefdoms, and have benefited some 850,000 people. Partnering with local non-governmental organizations has been essential in providing technical assistance and helping resolve conflicts in the communities. Through these participatory partnerships, Chevron has sponsored workshops on financial management, government budgeting, lobbying pr ocesses  and commu-
nity relations to improve the RDCs’ effectiveness. 
Raphael Nomiye, a leader of the Ilaje 
RDC, in a coastal area where many energy companies operate, said the GMOU process helped community lead-ers complete 30 projects in 2011, which was “in line with our cardinal objective to stimulate sustainable develop-ment in the Ilaje land.” He pointed to microcredit lending as key for local business opportunities. “Many of those who could not meet the requirements for loans from commercial banks have benefited to improve their business or start up new ones,” he said. The RDCs have provided loans to 2,000 individu-als in the Niger Delta region.
Along Nigeria’s southwestern coast, 
our Escravos Gas-to-Liquids (EGTL) plant under construction is designed to produce cleaner-burning diesel fuel, liquefied petroleum gas and naph-tha from natural gas. With a high rate of unemployment in the Delta, the EGTL project provides an opportunity for economic progress and job growth. 
“We approached our GMOU communi-
ties to seek capable local suppliers and provide training,” said Mick Kraly, EGTL project manager. “I’ve seen huge changes in confidence and capabilities in these companies, some of which went from a few employees to hundreds.”
To date, more than 10,000 Nigerians, 
mostly from the Delta, have jobs at EGTL and were trained in international safety standards. More than 1,500 purchase orders have been placed with Nigerian vendors, and 500 contract companies are involved in EGTL. One of those companies is Biloritz Nigeria Ltd., 
Multistakeholder partnerships are at the heart of our innovative, 
socioeconomic investment models in the Niger Delta.Nigeria: 
Transformative 
Investments35
$50
million
is the amount Chevron 
pledged to the Niger Delta Partnership Initiative over five years850,000
people have benefited from Global Memoran-dums of Understanding between Chevron, communities and state governments90%
of Chevron’s workforce in Nigeria are nationals
Preye Naiboken is a trader from Bayelsa State in the Niger Delta. She buys fresh ﬁ  sh from 
local ﬁ  shermen, dries the ﬁ  sh and sells them alongside the road.36Above: Youths in Edo State operate a fish farm that hatches and grows catfish. Family members 
and friends provided initial startup capital, and PIND provided a water well and storage tank. Now the youths support themselves through their business.
 Watch a video about the NDPI at Chevron.com/CR2011/Nigeria.Two foundations were created to 
support this goal. The NDPI Foundation was established in the United States to coordinate development-project funding, while the Foundation for Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta (PIND) is in Nigeria and actively engages in the design, development and monitoring of the programs funded by the NDPI and other donor partners. 
According to Bill Grant, an economic 
development specialist with Devel-opment Alternatives Inc., the NDPI’s efforts recognize that there cannot be meaningful change in the Niger Delta without the creation of a more enabling and peaceful environment for economic growth.
“These socioeconomic challenges 
are complex,” said Grant, “and require an understanding of how all the elements fit together. NDPI uses market-development thinking as its underlying strategy to drive economic growth. This is all supported by analyzing what is — and is not — working and building advocacy to drive the changes. By building a constitu-ency of local partners interested in the same objectives, the approach is pragmatic and generates ownership and a common understanding of the challenges and the solutions.”
The NDPI quickly generated interest 
among the international donor com-munity. In February 2011, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) committed $25 million to jointly support a number of NDPI projects. 
“The United States government, 
through USAID, is committed to work-ing with the private sector in Nigeria to establish innovative and dynamic part-nerships to promote socioeconomic development in the Niger Delta region, foster peace and stability, and improve the quality of life for residents,” said Ray Kirkland, USAID’s former mission a piping and engineering company that went from 46 employees in 2009 to 224 today. 
“It takes a lot of work to build these 
relationships,” said Kraly, “but once you get there, it’s very special. The GMOU process builds hope, peace and a sustainable way of doing things.”
NDPI: Moving Beyond Our Operations
Building on our foundation of participa-tory partnerships in Nigeria, in 2010 we launched the Niger Delta Partnership Initiative (NDPI) and announced our five-year, $50 million endowment.The NDPI involves a multisector com-mitment with local and international partners. It broadens our involvement because it addr esses r egional eco-
nomic development outside our areas of operation. 
“The approach is unique in that it not 
only addr esses s ocial and economic 
problems in the Niger Delta but also analyzes them to understand their root causes and identify sustainable solutions,” said Chevron’s Dennis Flemming, who has worked for 25 years on socioeconomic development programs in developing countries.
Learning From the Angola 
Partnership Initiative
The NDPI/PIND model has 
roots of success in Angola. To help rebuild Angola after years of civil war, Chevron’s pioneering work on the Angola Partnership Initiative began in 2002 in collabora-tion with international aid agencies, such as USAID and the United Nations Development Programme. The Angola Partnership Initiative focused on development programs that sought stability and growth in the areas most affected by conflict, rather than on Chevron’s business interests and operational areas. Together with our partners, we gen-erated innovative results. For example, we helped fund the establishment of Angola’s first microfinance bank and subsidized improvements in commercial agriculture, such as a vegetable coop-erative that grew into a sustainable enterprise that needed no subsidies.37The richness of our 
cultural diversity enhances our work environment.
Chevron operates in many 
countries, with different cultures and people. Having a workforce that is rich in diversity is essential.
We have made considerable 
progress in nationalizing our overall workforce. More than 90 percent of our workforce comprises nationals working in their home countries. We also track our progress in increasing the diversity of our senior-level leaders. In 2011, women and non-Caucasian men accounted for 27.5 percent of senior executives. 
To support our values of diversity 
and inclusion, approximately 25,000 Chevron employees are members of employee networks — defined by gender, race, national origin, age, disability or sexual orientation — that foster communi-cation among employees and cultivate links with communities.
We strive to expand relationships 
with minority and women suppliers. In 2011, we spent $833.4 million with women- and minority-owned businesses in the United States. 
We spent more than $2.1 billion on goods and services from U.S.-based small businesses.Diversity
Please visit Chevron.com/Diversity.director for Nigeria, during the signing o
f the agreement between the NDPI 
and USAID.
In 2011, the NDPI, along with the 
United Kingdom’s Department for International Development and the German International Cooperation Agency (GIZ), analyzed potential high-growth commodities in the Delta, resulting in the identification of cassava, palm oil and farm-raised catfish as sectors having strong development potential. Analysis of the commodity value chains identified opportunities to address constraints on market development within those sectors. Initial pilot interventions are focusing on fish-farming associa-tions and cooperatives operating from a cluster of more than 3,600 ponds in Ekpan, Delta State.The NDPI intends to expand its network of or ganizations, businesses 
and consultants promoting eco-nomic development in the Niger Delta. PIND has awarded more than $350,000 in small grants to local civil-society organizations and partnered with GIZ to train 42 individuals from Edo and Delta States as trainers in enterprise formation. 
Professor Obafemi Ajibola is a member 
of the PIND board of trustees and CEO of the New Nigeria Foundation, a nonprofit organization that encour-ages sustainable development. He believes the NDPI approach can succeed “because it identifies and deals with the systemic constraints faced by many economically active poor persons, thus encouraging creative market solutions.” 
Above: Silva Ikpire from Rivers State earns a living by weaving palm fronds into products for fishing, 
which she sells to local fishermen.
38Indonesia
Politeknik Aceh graduated its first 
140 students in September 2011. The polytechnic university was built by Chevron and its partners as part of the Chevron Aceh Recovery Initiative that followed the 2004 tsunami. Currently, 540 students are learning about mechatronics, industrial elec-tronics engineering, accounting and other subjects that support long-term economic growth in Aceh.
In line with our commitment to support 
the education of Indonesia’s youth, we designed the Chevron Earthquake Recovery Initiative in 2009 to rebuild educational facilities destroyed by the earthquakes. With $1.8 million from employee donations and company funds, Chevron worked with the cen-tral government, local governments, nongovernmental organizations, civil society and school committees to restore and rebuild two schools in West Sumatra and another two schools in Sukabumi and Garut regencies, where Chevron has its Darajat and Salak geo-thermal operations. The buildings were designed to resist earthquakes, and the Padang Vocational High School can function as shelter for 2,200 people in case of a tsunami.
In September 2011, students of the first graduating class at Politeknik Aceh celebrated. 
The polytechnic university awards degrees in applied engineering and technology fields. From left are graduates Cut Fitri Saumi, Al Mukhyar and Uci Zulfira Rahayu.In 2011, we reached milestones in 
many of our operations and communities. Following are a few examples from regions covered in our previous reports. Progress Update
39U.S. Gulf of Mexico
The drilling activity that had begun 
in March 2010 at the Moccasin prospect in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico was stopped that June, when the U.S. government imposed a moratorium on deepwater drilling in the Gulf. In March 2011, we were issued a deepwater permit by the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Reg-ulation and Enforcement to resume drilling the Moccasin exploration well. In September, we announced a new oil discovery at the prospect.
Since the BP Macondo well incident, 
we have reviewed our pr ocesses, 
procedures and well-control contin-gency plans at our drilling operations worldwide to confirm our ability to operate safely and respond to any unforeseen incidents. Chevron is one of the sponsor companies of the Marine Well Containment Co. (MWCC), a nonprofit, independent organiza-tion committed to improving response capabilities for containing deepwater well-control incidents in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. MWCC developed an interim oil-spill containment system that became available for use in February 2011. Kazakhstan
As Kazakhstan celebrated its 20th anniversary of independence in 2011, Chevron continued to support new initiatives in the country. In addition to helping develop innovative projects in vocational training and earthquake preparedness for Almaty citizens, Chevron signed a partnership agree-ment with Nazarbayev University in the country’s capital city, Astana, to provide funds to the Center for Energy Research for studies in energy, the environment and sustainable develop-ment, and to provide the Social Development Fund to support young researchers. Since its operations began in 1993, the Chevron-led joint-venture Tengizchevroil has invested $700 million to fund social programs in the Atyrau region for its workforce and the community.
Angola
In 2011, we partnered with the Baylor College of Medicine, Texas Children’s Hospital and the Republic of Angola on two health initiatives. Chevron has committed $4 million over four years to support the Angola Sickle Cell Initiative, the country’s first compre-hensive sickle cell treatment program. Of the more than 6,000 babies who were screened in 2011, 85 were identi-fied as having the disease and will receive treatment before they manifest symptoms. We also announced a $6 million, five-year agreement to expand Texas Children’s Hospital’s Global Health Corps program, which 
provides lifesaving pediatric health 
care and treatment to medically underserved populations in Angola and Liberia.Australia
We’re setting a new benchmark in the management of biosecurity risks through our quarantine management system on Barrow Island, home of the Gorgon liquefied natural gas project. Effective quarantine management is at the core of our commitment to safeguarding Barrow Island’s unique species. The Western Australian Environmental Protection Authority has acknowledged that our system islikely to be the world’s best practice. The system was developed with help from independent experts and applies innovative engineering solutions to ecological challenges.
We are also playing an important role 
in the large-scale demonstration of greenhouse gas storage technology through our Gorgon CO
2-injection 
project, an investment of approxi-mately $2.1 billion. We plan to separate CO
2, which occurs naturally in the 
Gorgon produced gas, and inject it into a deep containment reservoir 1.6 miles (2.6 km) beneath Barrow Island. The project has received sup-port from many sectors and groups, including recognition from the interna-tional Carbon Sequestration Leader-ship Forum. The Australian government has also committed approximately $62.7 million to the Gorgon Project as part of the Low Emissions Technology Demonstration Fund.
40At Chevron, how we work is as important 
as what we do. Our success is driven by our people and their commitment to deliver reliable and affordable energy the right way — by operating responsibly, applying innovative technologies and performing with excellence.
At year-end 2011, Chevron’s worldwide employee staffing was 57,376 
(excluding 3,813 service station employees). This represents a decrease of 1.5 percent over the previous year. U.S. workers numbered 26,525, and approximately 11.2 percent were represented by unions.Global Geographic Breakdown of Employees 
at Year-End 2011
 North America 46.5%
 Asia-Pacific 29.0%
 Africa 14.0%
 Europe/Middle East 6.4%
 South America 4.1%Additional Information and Data41
33%
is the amount Chevron 
has reduced flaring and venting in opera-tions since 2003
57,376
employees worked for Chevron at year-end 2011
100%
rating was achieved by Chevron on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index for the seventh consecutive year
The generators behind operator Rashed Al-Yami create steam at the Wafra large-scale steam-
ﬂ ood project for the Saudi Arabian Chevron-Kuwait Gulf Oil Co. The joint operations in the onshore 
Partitioned Zone lie between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.42Air Emissions by Sector 4, 5
Metric tonsAir Emissions 4, 5
Metric tons
 Upstream  Downstream  Other
VOCs
SO X
NO X260,640260,281
91,644155,485
144,676132,106221,734274,146
125,036151,861
134,785121,914262,307
154,949
134,76120072008200920102011
20072008200920102011
20072008200920102011  Upstream Downstream Other
VOCs  2011 230,107 30,148 26
 2010 229,113 33,174 21
 2009 234,243 39,871 32 2008 201,209 18,648 1,878 2007 240,716 18,788 1,136
SOX 2011 141,601 13,849 35
 2010 137,005 17,902 42 2009 135,393 16,339 130 2008 97,731 18,496 8,810 2007 63,223 20,451 7,970
NO
X 2011 122,781 8,373 952
 2010 121,627 12,155 979
 2009 109,320 12,453 142 2008 95,717 12,282 26,785 2007 121,378 14,041 9,257
Petroleum Spills 8
Number of spills200920102011
1.87
2.11
3.87
3.73
3.709.47
13.06
11.28
12.94
15.642008
2007Average Oil Concentration in 
Discharges to Water 6
Parts per million
 Upstream  Manufacturing and Chemicals
Petroleum Spills 7, 8
Volume in barrels
 Spills to land  Secondary containment
 Spills to water  Volume recovered
20072008200920102011
12,114
9,342
17,471
9,22712,401
10,388
7,509
14,396
6,8388,119274
258
331
324
403 20072008200920102011Fines and Settlements 9
Number of environmental, health and safety 
fines and settlements
YEAR  07 08 09 10 11
Total number 684 564 460 524 185GHG Emissions by Source 1
Millions of metric tons of CO 2 equivalent
 Combustion  Flaring and venting   OtherGHG Emissions by Sector 1
Millions of metric tons of CO 2 equivalent
 Upstream  Downstream  OtherTotal GHG Emissions by Type 1, 2
Millions of metric tons of CO 2 equivalent
Energy Performance 3
Percentage improvement since 1992 baseline7.3
5.7
4.5
4.8
4.712.9
13.5
12.2
13.2
14.639.6
41.1
40.3
41.3
41.0 20072008200920102011
0.8
0.9
1.1
1.4
1.522.9
24.2
24.0
23.5
22.836.1
35.1
31.8
34.4
35.9 20072008200920102011
34
33
30
28
27 20072008200920102011   Grid
 Direct Indirect Credits Net
2011 61.6 —1.8 0.0 59.8
2010 63.1 —2.9 0.0 60.22009 60.3 —2.4 —0.9 57.02008 62.7 —2.4 —1.0 59.22007 63.7 —2.9 —0.5 60.3Performance Data
Footnotes are on page 45.43Greenhouse Gas Emissions
At Chevron, we are taking significant steps to address 
greenhouse gases (GHGs). The use of fossil fuels to meet the world’s energy needs contributes to an increase in GHGs — mainly carbon dioxide (CO
2) and methane — 
in Earth’s atmosphere. We made a long-term commitment to improve energy efficiency in our day-to-day activities, which will help us manage our carbon emissions. We inventory our emissions and use innovative technologies to continually improve the efficiency of energy use in our operations. We also assess  GHG emissions in our 
capital projects.
For the sixth time since 2004, the Carbon Disclosure 
Project has featured us in their Leadership Index as an industry leader in disclosing GHG emissions manage-ment information. A score of 86 reflects our good, transparent data management and understanding of GHG management issues.
In 2011, emissions were 59.8 million metric tons of CO
2 
equivalent, meeting our goal of 60.0 million tons.Our emissions goal for 2012 is 60.5 million metric tons 
of CO
2 equivalent. Normal production levels and emis-
sions are expected to resume in areas where disruptions and maintenance occurred in 2011, and emissions are expected from new facilities and facility expansions coming online in 2012. We will seek emissions reductions through energy efficiency improvements and reduced flaring and venting.
Combustion of our products resulted in emissions of 
approximately 396 million metric tons of CO
2 in 2011, approxi-
mately 5 percent less than the 418 million metric tons emitted in 2010. More details on flaring reduction and prod-ucts combustion are provided in footnote 1 on page 45.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity
Our 2011 GHG emissions intensity was 34.9 metric tons of CO
2 equivalent per 1,000 barrels of Upstream operations 
net oil-equivalent production, up from 32.9 metric tons in 2010. Our Downstream intensity was 36.8 metric tons of CO
2 equivalent per 1,000 barrels crude oil refinery feed, 
up from 35.4 in 2010.
Air Emissions
2011 volatile organic compound (VOC) air emissions are estimated at similar levels to previous years.
2011 sulfur oxides (SO
X) emissions are at similar levels to 
2010 and 2009. Changes in SO X emissions over the years are due to changes in sour gas production from a 
maturing Saudi Arabia/Partitioned Zone (SA/PZ) reser-voir, and improved estimates of gas production and SA/PZ flare gas.
2011 nitrogen oxides (NO
X) emissions are lower than in 
2010 due to the divestment of the Pembroke Refinery and 
a revised Hawaii Refinery estimate from source testing.
Oil Discharges to Water
In 2011, Chevron discharged 1,57 4 metric tons of oil to surface water, 31 percent less than in 2010. The chart on page 42 shows reduced oil concentration in water discharges for Upstream and Gas and for Manufacturing and Chemicals. The Upstream and Gas average oil concentration in discharges to water decreased in 2011 mainly due to improvements in Sumatra. The Manufac-turing and Chemicals average oil concentration in discharges to water decreased due to the divestment of the Pembroke Refinery, improved El Segundo Refinery effluent-treatment system performance, and seasonal rainfall variation.
Hazardous Waste
The 2011 hazardous waste generated was 1.01 million metric tons, a decrease from the 1.10 million metric tons reported for 2010. This reduction is attributed to Manufacturing, where generation decreased due to decreased disposal of contaminated refinery soil, report-ing changes to align with regulatory requirements, and the divestment of the Pembroke Refinery. The 2011 hazardous waste disposed of was 520,733 metric tons. The 2011 amount that was recycled, reused and recovered was 509,097 metric tons.
Petroleum Spills 
We continually review and improve systems to prevent spills. In 2011, 27 4 petroleum spills released 12,401 barrels, a slight increase compared with 12,114 barrels released by 258 spills in 2010. Approximately 18 percent, or 2,236 barrels, of the total volume was spilled to secondary containment in 2011. Compared with 2005, there were 40 percent fewer spills, and spill volume was reduced by 70 percent.
Fines and Settlements9
2011 environmental fines and settlements were $89.4 mil-lion. This represents 3.32 percent of Chevron’s total 2011 environmental expenditures. 44 YEAR  07 08 09 10 11
 Workforce 0.35 0.36 0.27 0.24 0.24
 Benchmark 0.56 0.55 0.40 0.41 N/A
 Employees 0.40 0.31 0.32 0.22 0.22
 Benchmark 0.49 0.47 0.42 0.33 N/A
 Contractors 0.34 0.37 0.26 0.24 0.24
 Benchmark 0.61 0.59 0.39 0.45 N/ATotal Recordable Incident Rate 10
Incidents per 200,000 work hoursLost-Time Incident Frequency 10
Days Away From Work incidents and 
fatalities per million work hoursDays Away From Work Rate 10
Incidents per 200,000 work hours
 YEAR  07 08 09 10 11
 Workforce 0.37 0.27 0.25 0.18 0.20
 Benchmark 0.65 0.64 0.44 0.45 N/A
 Employees 0.48 0.33 0.33 0.17 0.29
 Benchmark 0.57 0.57 0.52 0.44 N/A
 Contractors 0.33 0.25 0.23 0.19 0.12
 Benchmark 0.71 0.67 0.39 0.46 N/A YEAR  07 08 09 10 11
 Workforce 0.07 0.05 0.05 0.03 0.04
 Benchmark 0.13 0.12 0.09 0.09 N/A
 Employees 0.09 0.07 0.07 0.03 0.06
 Benchmark 0.11 0.11 0.10 0.08 N/A
 Contractors 0.06 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.03
 Benchmark 0.14 0.13 0.07 0.09 N/A
Work-Related Fatalities
Number of fatalitiesWork-Related Fatal Accident Rate
Work-related employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work hoursWork-Related Fatal Incident Rate
Work-related incidents that led to at least one employee or contractor fatality per 100 million work hours
 YEAR  07 08 09 10 11
 Workforce 17 5 9 5 5
 Employees 3 0 0 0 1
 Contractors 14 5 9 5 4 YEAR  07 08 09 10 11
 Workforce 3.50 1.01 1.85 1.03 0.99
 Employees 2.27 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.79
 Contractors 3.96 1.40 2.54 1.40 1.05 YEAR  07 08 09 10 11
 Workforce 1.85 1.01 1.85 0.83 0.39
 Employees 1.51 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.79
 Contractors 1.98 1.40 2.54 1.12 0.26
Footnotes are on page 45.Motor Vehicle Safety 11
Company vehicle incidents per million miles driven
0.03
0.01
0.06
0.06
0.10 20072008200920102011Global Diversity
YEAR 10 11
Women in total workforce 23.1% 23.4%
Women represented at midlevel and above 11.8% 12.4%
Women and non-Caucasian men represented at senior executive levels 27.0% 27.5%
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Statistics
YEAR  08 09 10 11
Minorities among total employees 35.3%  34.9%  35.4% 35.9%
Women among total employees 29.2%  28.9%  29.3% 29.3%
Minorities among executives and senior managers 11.0%  11.2%  11.1% 11.6%
Minorities among first- and midlevel managers 26.9%  27.5%  27.4% 27.7%
Women among executives and senior managers 15.0%  14.4%  15.3% 16.3%
Women among first- and midlevel managers 24.7%  27.4%  26.9% 27.4%
Minorities among professionals 30.6%  31.4%  31.7% 31.8%
Women among professionals 32.4%  32.4%  32.8% 32.2%Performance Data45  Notes to pages 42 and 43
 1 Chevron continues to use the upgraded GHG 
and energy reporting system (CGERS), improved 
by adding reporting mechanisms for electronic reporting to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
  The 2010 emissions were restated to 60.2 metric 
tons of CO
2 equivalent, as several business units 
improved their data collection and accuracy, especially in the United States, where GHG emis-sions reporting became mandatory. 
  Increased production, new operations and 
increased flaring due to a disruption of operations in Angola drove some of the emis-sions increases. The Pascagoula Refinery and the Yeosu Refinery increased production, which increased their emissions. Production changes in Canadian Upstream interests also drove emissions increases. At the same time, the increased emissions were more than offset by decreases in emissions due to the divestment of the Pembroke Refinery and the North River Mine (U.S.), improvements in Chevron Shipping fleet efficiency, and decreased production at the El Segundo Refinery. 
  Chevron calculates product emissions based on 
total 2011 Upstream liquids, gas and coal produc-tion. The emissions factors used are from the American Petroleum Institute’s Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (2004, 2009). Based on the International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) Key World Energy Statistics  (2011), these 
emissions represent 1.3 percent of global CO
2 
emissions from fossil fuels. This amount is lower than the 1.7 percent of global CO
2 emissions 
estimated in 2002.
  The IEA’s Key World Energy Statistics  (2011) 
indicates 28,999 million metric tons of CO 2 from 
fossil fuel emissions. Chevron divides its prod-ucts combustion number by 28,999 million to obtain its percentage of 1.3 percent. 
  Chevron participates in the Global Gas Flaring 
Reduction Partnership. Since 2003, we reduced flaring and venting by 33 percent (operated basis). In Nigeria and Angola (85 percent of Upstream flaring), we plan to reduce flaring and venting by 50 percent by 2014.  The 2011 flaring and venting emissions are 
based on flare gas volume of 898 million cubic feet per day plus venting of gas in CO
2 equiva-
lent, which is 6 percent higher than in 2010. The increased flaring in 2011 is due to a disrup-tion of operations in Upstream Angola.
  Chevron’s GHG emissions data are reported 
on an equity basis for all businesses in which 
Chevron has an inte rest, except as noted below. 
The following entities are not currently included in the Chevron corporate GHG inventory: Chevron Phillips Chemical Co. LLC, the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, the Chad-Cameroon pipeline joint venture, Caltex Australia Ltd.’s Lytton and Kurnell refineries, and other refiner-ies in which Chevron has an equity interest of 16 percent or less. These are entities over which Chevron does not have full operational control or which do not generally follow Chevron’s corporate GHG inventory protocol or a compati-ble protocol. At this time, GS Caltex Corp.’s Yeosu Refinery’s emissions data are submitted separately from the CGERS system. 
  Due to rounding, individual numbers may not 
sum to the total numbers.
 2 Direct emissions come from sources within a 
facility. Indirect emissions come from electricity and steam that Chevron imports, less the emissions credits from electricity and steam that Chevron exports. Grid credits account for electricity that Chevron exports and that is produced more efficiently than electricity from the regional or national grid. Per industry best practices, beginning in 2010, Chevron no longer accounts for grid credits in its power generation emissions.
 3 Chevron uses an energy index to measure 
energy efficiency improvements across its global operations. As of 2011, that index has shown a 34 percent improvement since 1992. The Chevron Energy Index is a measure of the energy intensity of its operations based on the estimated improvement of energy technologies and operational performance. The total energy consumption of its operated assets in 2011 was 760 million gigajoules (or 720 trillion Btu), at a cost of $7.0 billion. 
 4 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are derived 
primarily from fugitive emissions from equip-ment (such as valves, pumps and compr essors), 
flaring, venting, and flashing gas. Nitrogen oxides (NO
X) and sulfur oxides (SO X) are com-
bustion byproducts. 5 2009 and 2010 VOC air emissions are restated 
in this report. Kazakhstan VOCs are revised to include additional compounds that are not required to be included by regulations.
  “Other” includes Chevron Mining Inc.
  Due to rounding, individual numbers may not 
sum to the total numbers.
 6 Numbers shown on chart for Upstream are for 
Upstream and Gas operations.
 7 Secondary containment volume — which is not 
released to the environment — is included in 
the total volume listed at the end of each bar. 
 8 Spills to land, water and secondary containment 
that are greater than or equal to one barrel are included.
 9 Environmental expenditures were $2.7 billion 
($1.0 billion capital, $1.7 billion noncapital). Health and safety fines and settlements were 0.4 percent of total fines and settlements ($0.32 million).
Notes to pages 44 and 45
 10 American Petroleum Institute’s Benchmarking 
Survey of Occupational Injuries, Illnesses, 
and Fatalities in the Petroleum Industry data are used as industry benchmarks. Occupational safety data include bo th injuries and illnesses. 
2011 benchmark data were not available at the time of publication.
 11 Data include catastrophic and major incidents only.
 12 Loss-of-containment incidents are unplanned or 
uncontrolled releases resulting in consequences 
equivalent to those specified by the American National Standards Institute/American Petroleum Institute (ANSI/API) Recommended Practice 754.
  Data from the former Atlas Energy, Inc., are 
included in Chevron’s employment, Total Recordable Incident Rate, Lost-Time Incident Frequency, Days Away From Work Rate and Fatality charts.Process Safety  12
In 2011, there were 92 loss-of-primary-containment incidents of significance 
(ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 Tier 1) across the company, compared with 95 incidents in 2010. Of the 92 incidents, 63 occurred in Upstream and 29 in Downstream, which includes Manufacturing and Chemicals.46Information responsive to 
these indicators appears on our websites: 
1  Throughout print and online report
 2 Chevron.com
 3 Chevron.com/AnnualReport
 4 Chevron.com/OE
 5 Chevron.com/BusinessEthics
 6 Chevron.com/Diversity 7 Chevron.com/SocialInvestment
 8 ChevronCalifornia.com
 9 Chevron.com/EnergyEfficiency
 10 Chevron.com/EmergingEnergy
 11 Chevron.com/Environment
 12 Chevron.com/Biodiversity 13 Chevron.com/ClimateChange
 14 Chevron.com/HealthSafety
 15 Chevron.com/HumanRights
 16 Chevron.com/EnergyPolicy
 17 Chevron.com/MSDSGRI and API/IPIECA Index
This index refers to: • 2010 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Version 3.1
• American Petroleum Institute/International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association 
(API/IPIECA) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting , 2nd edition, 2010
 For more information on GRI and API/IPIECA reporting guidelines, please visit globalreporting.org and ipieca.org.
GRI API/IPIECA Where Reported
Proﬁ le Disclosures
Strategy and Analysis 1.1  1. 2 2–3
Or
ganizational Proﬁ  le 2.1  2. 22  2.32  2.42  2.52  2.62  2.72  2.82  2.92  2.10
Report Parameters Report Proﬁ  le   3.1  3.2  3.3  3.4  49
R
eport Scope and Boundary  3.5  3.6  3.7  3.8   3.9  3.10  3.11 2, 40–49
G
RI Content Index  3.12 46
A
ssurance  3.13 47
G
overnance, Commitments 
and EngagementGovernance  4.13  4.23  4.32  4.42  4.52 4.62  4.72  4.84  
4.95  4.102SE1821–7
Commitments to External Initiatives  4.11  4. 122  4.132  
Stakeholder Engagement  4.141  4.151, 5  4.161  4.171, 5
Economic Economic Performance  EC13  EC23  EC33  EC43  EC53  SE135
Market Presence  EC66  EC76SE4  SE71, 634–37
Indirect Economic Impacts  EC87, 8  EC91, 7, 831
Environmental Materials  EN1  EN 2
Energy  EN3  EN 4   EN59  EN6 10  EN72E2  E31011, 42–45
Water  EN8  EN 9   EN 1011E6 10, 21–23
Bi
odiversity  EN1112  EN1212  EN1312  EN1412  EN 1512E5129
Emissions, Efﬂ  uents and Waste  EN 16   EN 17   EN1813  EN 19  
EN20   EN 2111  EN 22  EN23   EN 24   EN 25E8  E9  E1  E413  E10  E7 42–43
P
roducts and Services  EN2611  EN27   EN 29
Compliance  EN28 43
Ov
erall  EN30
Social
L
abor Practices and 
Decent WorkEmployment  LA1  LA 2   LA3 SE 6 16, 19–20, 24–27, 34, 41, 44
E
mployee Satisfaction  SE16
Labor/Management Relations  LA45  LA 5
Occupational Health and Safety  LA6  LA 7  LA814  LA 9 HS1  HS214  HS3  HS5 4–7, 21, 44
T
raining and Education  LA10   LA 11   LA 12 SE17
Diversity and Equal Opportunity  LA132, 6  LA14  LA15 40, 44
H
uman Rights Investment and Procurement Practices  HR115  HR2  HR3 SE815  SE91513–17
Nondiscrimination  HR 4 SE15637
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining  HR5
Child Labor  HR6
Forced and Compulsory Labor  HR7
Security Practices  HR815SE101517
Indigenous Rights   HR9  HR 10   HR11 SE21515
Society Community  SO11, 7  SO9  SO10 SE 11  SE3   SE41, 7  SE519–17, 36–37
Corruption  SO2  SO 35  SO4 SE115  SE125
Public Policy  SO516  SO65SE145, 16
Compliance  SO7  SO 8
Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety  PR14  PR5 HS 44, 174–7
Product and Service Labeling  PR317
Marketing Communications  PR6
Compliance  PR2  PR 4   PR 7   PR8  PR 9
Key to Indicators:
Fully reported in 2011
P
artially reported in 2011
Not covered in 2011
 47Terms of Engagement
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Chevron U.S.A. Inc.
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) was 
commissioned by Chevron U.S.A. Inc., on behalf of Chevron Corporation (Chevron), to assure its proc esses used to produce 
the Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) for the calendar year 2011 (hereafter referred to as “the CRR”). Our terms of engagement were to review the proc esses f or reporting 
health, environmental, and safety (HES) performance indica-tors. Verifying the accuracy of data and information was not included in the assurance.
LRQA has reviewed Chevron’s CRR reporting pr ocesses  since 
2008 (for the 2007 CRR).
Management Responsibility
Chevron’s management was responsible for preparing the CRR and for maintaining effective internal controls over the data and information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the CRR in accord-ance with our contract with Chevron.
Ultimately, the CRR has been approved by, and remains the 
responsibility of, Chevron.
LRQA’s Approach
Our verification has been conducted against the requirements of LRQA’s Report Verification procedure. The objectives of the assurance engagement were to validate the integrity of Chevron’s reporting proc esses and to evaluate consistency 
with the IPIECA/API/OGP Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting  (2010). 
To form our conclusions, the assurance was undertaken as a sampling exercise and covered the following activities:
•  Visiting 18 entities, including 16 operating units on five conti-nents, and addressing Chevron’s principal functional oil and gas, chemical and mining operations throughout 2011 to  assess 
local understanding and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.
•  Visiting Chevron Upstream and Gas headquarters in Houston, Texas, and Chevron Downstream and Chemicals headquarters in San Ramon, California, to a ssess business -unit understanding 
and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.
•  Interviewing key personnel to identify and gain an understand-ing of Chevron’s reporting requirements.•  Reviewing the documented reporting requirements to validate consistency of scope, definition and reporting for each of the HES performance indicators.
•  Reviewing the proc esses used at the corporate level to aggre-
gate data and information for inclusion in the final report.
Level of Assurance
The opinion expr essed in this Assurance Statement has been 
formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance.
LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, it is our opinion that Chevron’s reporting process was effective in delivering HES indicators that are useful for a ssessing corporate performance and reporting 
information consistent with the IPIECA/API/OGP Oil and Gas 
Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010). 
 It should be noted that:
•  Proc esses were in place that ensure that sites contributing 
to core HES metrics understood corporate reporting procedures 
and requirements.
•  Methods used for calculating each HES performance metric were clearly defined and communicated. 
•  Chevron’s reporting requirements for HES metrics were understood and carried out. Data collected at the site/local and business-unit levels were checked and aggregated into cor-porationwide metrics.
•  Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines was clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken.
LRQA’s Recommendations
  Observations and areas for potential improvement are provided 
in a report to Chevron management. These observations do not affect our conclusions.
Andrea M. Bockrath
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, Texas 77077April 12, 2012
LRQA Reference: UQA4000679
This document is subject to the provisions below:  
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers.
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to 
in this clause as the “Lloyd’s Register Group.” The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense 
caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contrac t with the relevant Lloyd’s Register 
Group entity for the provision of this information or advice, and in that case, any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.
Because of the inherent limitations in any internal control, it is possible that fraud, error, or noncompliance with laws and r egulations may occur and not be detected. 
Further, the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the r equirements set out above, as the verification 
has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls wa s on a test basis. Any projection of the 
evaluation of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the proc esses may become inadequate because of changes in c onditions, or that the degree of compliance 
with them may deteriorate.
The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versi ons translated into other languages. Assurance Statement48Glossary
Renewable Energy
Near Chevron’s molybdenum mine in Questa, 
New Mexico, the company has commissioned a 20-acre (8.2-ha) solar demonstration project. Chevron is using this existing asset to explore technologies to help operations become more efficient. This concentrating photovoltaic solar installation is one of the largest in the U.S.
Ee
ESHIA 
Chevron’s Environmental, 
Social and Health Impact A ssess
-
ment is a process designed to logically and consistently identify potentially significant project-related environmental, social and health impacts.
Ff
Flaring and venting 
The burning or release of 
nat
ural gas that is often pro-
duced in association with crude oil, a process that typically occurs when there is no market or onsite use for the gas.
Gg
Geothermal energy 
A renewable source of energy 
that us
es the heat energy 
of the earth for heating or to create electricity.
Greenhouse gases (GHGs) 
Gases that trap heat in the 
atmo
s phere; such gases include 
water vapor, ozone, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluoro-carbons and sulfur hexafluoride.
Ii
IPIECA
International Petroleum  Indus try 
Environmental Conservation 
Association
ISO 14001:2004
Environmental management 
 s
ystem standard developed 
by the International Organization 
for Standardization.Aa
API
American Petroleum Institute
Bb
Biodiversity Refers to the diversity of life 
on the planet. It enc 
ompa sses 
genera, species, habitats and  ecosystems, and the pr ocesses 
that support them.
Cc
Capacity building 
A key area of focus for Chevron’s 
s
ocial investment efforts, which 
means targeting support toward programs that help individuals and institutions develop the skills, capabilities and expertise they need to succeed.
The Chevron Way 
Explains our values: who we are, 
what w
e do, what we believe 
and what we plan to accomplish.
Corporate responsibility 
Putting The Chevron Way values 
int
o action across environmental, 
social, and governance issues and priorities.
Dd
Downstream 
The industry term for opera-
tions r
elated to refining crude 
oil into finished petroleum products, and for marketing crude oil and the many products derived from petroleum.Nn
Nongovernmental organization (NGO) 
An organization that is inde-
pen dent fr
om government, 
generally a nonprofit organi-zation devoted to providing assistance to or advancing a particular cause or issue.
Oo
OGP
International Association of Oil 
& Gas Pr
oducers
OHSAS 18001:2007
An international Occupational 
Health and Saf
ety Assessment 
Series management system specification.
Operational Excellence 
Management S
ystem (OEMS) 
Chevron’s standard approach t
o systematic management 
of safety, health, the environ-ment, reliability and efficiency in order to achieve world-class performance.
Pp
Partner 
In this report, partner is used 
in it
s broad sense to mean a 
person or organization associ-ated with another in a common activity or one that shares a mutual inter est. It does not imply 
a member of a contractual part-nership in which the partners jointly own and carry on a busi-ness and proportionally share in liabilities, profit s or losses of 
the business.Rr
Renewable energy 
Energy resources that are 
not deple
ted when consumed 
or converted into other forms of energy (for example, solar, geothermal, ocean and tide, wind, hydroelectric power, and biofuels).
Ss
Social investment 
The resources Chevron provides 
with the objectiv
e of benefiting 
our external stakeholders, and building and maintaining relationships to support our business.
Stakeholder 
At Chevron, defined as those 
who af
fect, are affected by, 
or have a legitimate interest in our company’s performance.
Uu
Upstream 
The industry term for opera-
tions r
elated to exploring 
for, developing and producing crude oil and natural gas; for marketing natural gas; and for transporting crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products by pipeline and marine v essel.We make significant social investments in the 
communities where we operate. To learn more, please visit Chevron.com/CorporateResponsibility.
About This Report
This report covers 2011 data and activities. We also occasionally mention activities that took place before 2011 and in early 
2012 when they help provide a clearer picture of our performance.  This report covers our owned or operated businesses and 
does not address the performance of our suppliers, contractors or partners unless otherwise noted. All financial information is presented in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. Our previous report was published in May 2011 and covers 2010 data and activities.
We continue to be informed by reporting frameworks and guidelines that include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and 
the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on  Voluntary Sustainability Reporting , 2nd edition, published in 2010 by the International 
Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). We included an index to help readers find information corresponding to the GRI and API/IPIECA indicators (see page 46).
This report, previous editions of our report and additional information can be found at Chevron.com/CorporateResponsibility. 
We welcome your comments and feedback at Chevron.com/Contact/EmailChevron.
Ms. Lauren Buggs
Chevron Corporation6101 Bollinger Canyon Road, Room 3170San Ramon, CA 94583-2324
Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information
This Corporate Responsibility Report by Chevron  Corporation contains forward-looking 
statements relating to the manner in which Chevron intends to conduct certain of its activities, 
based on management’s current plans and expectations. These statements are not promises 
or guarantees of future conduct or policy and are subject to a variety of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.
Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the development, implementation or 
continuation of any program, policy or initiative discussed to forecast in this report, may differ materially in the future. The statements of intention in this report speak only as of the date of this report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to publicly update any statements in this report.
As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such terms as “the company,” “the corporation,” 
“their,” “our,” “its,” “we,” and “us” may refer to one or more of Chevron’s consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken as a whole. All these terms are used for con-venience only and are not intended as a precise description of any of the separate entities, each of which manages its own affairs.WRITER
Peter Bartelme 
PRODUCTION EDITOR
Eileen Ostrow Feldman
PHOTO CREDITS
Cover: Marc Marriott
Page 3: Eric MyerPage 4: Jim KarageorgePage 8: Tantyo BangunPage 10: Oetomo WiropranotoPage 11 (from top): Oetomo
Wiropranoto; Marc Marriott
Pages 12–14: Marc MarriottPage 15: Peter CannonPages 16 & 17: Marc MarriottPages 18–20: Marc MarriottPage 23: Marilyn HulbertPage 25: Graham KietzmannPage 26: Greg Shaw/Black VanillaPage 27: Darren RixPages 28 & 29: Marc MarriottPage 30 (from top): Kern 
Educational Television Network; Marilyn Hulbert; Kevin Tong
Page 32: Marc MarriottPage 33: Marilyn HulbertPage 35: Courtesy of Morgan 
Smart Development Foundation
Page 36: Courtesy of PINDPage 37: Courtesy of Morgan 
Smart Development Foundation
Page 38: Sienty-Arief PhotographyPage 41: Marc MarriottPage 48: Paul S. HowellThe printed, bound report was printed on Forest Stewardship
Council-certified Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent post-c onsumer waste. It was process ed elemental chlorine-free,
produced using wind energy and printed with soy ink.
Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar 
panels are expected to offset the company’s energy demands by 30 percent.
Design: Sequel, New York Learn More Online 
The Annual Report, the Supplement to the Annual Report and the Corporate Responsibility Report are available on the Internet at Chevron.com/Publications.
Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
www.chevron.com2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Supplement to the Annual Report 2011 Annual Report
© 2012 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.
913-0386I 5/12 (20M)Scan this QR code with your smart-
phone to access Chevron’s 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report and related videos online.
QR readers are available from your 
phone’s app store.
Chevron.com/CR2011
