2002 ChevronTexaco
Corporate Responsibility Report
Integrity and learning in an evolving world© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
12002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Table of Contents
2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
Table of Contents
3Our Values & Vision
3Company Description
4About This Report
5Corporate Responsibility Strategy
6Engagement & Dialogue
6Management Systems
8Corporate Governance
9Introduction
11 Ethics
12 Political Activities
13 Revenue Transparency
14 Community Engagement
18 Human Rights
19 Security
20 Health & Safety
23 HIV/AIDS & Other Infectious Diseases
25 Employees
26 Diversity
28 Global Workforce Development
29 Training & Development
29 Wages & Beneﬁts
30 Employee Dispute Resolution31 Introduction
31 Financial Performance Data
33 Supplier Diversity & Small Business Development
35 Introduction
37 Energy Efﬁciency
38 Climate Change
41 Energy Technologies
43 Flaring
44 Air Emissions
45 Spills
47 Water
47 Waste
48 Decommissioning & Remediation
50 Biodiversity
53 Environmental and Social Impact Assessments
54 Product Stewardship
56 Environmental Expenditures & FinesSocial IssuesEconomic Issues
Environmental IssuesOverview & Strategy2CEO Message© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
22002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Overview and Strategy
As an energy company that oper-
ates in more than 180countries,
ChevronT exaco is accountable to a wide range of stakeholders:investors and e mployees; business
partners and host governments;
customers and local communities.We know our success as a company
depends not only  on our ﬁnancial
performance but also on our abilityto address the social and environ-
mental expectat ions of these stake-
holders. Indeed, we see corporateresponsibility and business success
as mutually reinforcing: Financialhealth is a prerequisite to our
being able to continue to make a po sitive contribution to society, and
operating in a responsible way co ntributes to our ﬁnancial success.
This report describes the work that ChevronT exaco is doing – and has
yet to do – to demonstrate r esponsible performance around the world.
We have focused on our performance in areas that are important to our
company and, we believe, to our stakeholders. We also have painted a
picture of our overall approach to  corporate responsibility because we
believe that the way we achieve re sults is every bit as important as the
results themselves.
Although this is our ﬁrst report on corporate responsibility, the concept
is not new to the more than 
53,000 men and women of ChevronT exaco.
You will ﬁnd it reﬂected in The ChevronTexaco Way ,which describes
our company’s values and guides our actions. For nearly 125years,
we have recognized the importance of treating people with respect,addressing the needs of the communities where we do business, beingresponsible stewards of the environment and leaving a positive legacy
for future generations.
Our company’s primary obligation is to produce reliable, affordable
energy. In doing so, we are committed to protecting people and the envi-ronment by operating safely and efﬁ ciently, conserving natural resources
and responsibly stewarding our products. We take pride in knowing thatthe energy we produce is a building block of economic developmentthat helps improve standards of living around the world. Energy, quiteliterally, is the fuel that drives progress in countless other sectors, fromtransportation and commerce to health care, education and agriculture.
In producing this energy, ChevronT exaco provides employment, spurs
economic growth, transfers technology ,and contributes to the devel-
opment of the communities in which we operate.
We also operate in some of the most challenging places in the world –
regions that suffer from poverty, disease, civil unrest and legacies of
corruption. In some of these places, the beneﬁts of economic development
have not been distributed evenly. Because we operate there, companieslike ours have an opportunity to be catalysts for positive change.
Issues related to poverty and health are of special concern to the people
of ChevronT exaco. In our view, addressing these fundamental issues isa critical stepping-stone to being able to help ﬁnd solutions to the rangeof other complex social, economic and environmental issues where weoperate, from increasing revenue transparency in our industry to address-ing concerns about global climate change.
We are working, consistent with our role as a company, to help ensure
that our stakeholders beneﬁt from the energy we and our partnersdevelop. We accept that we have a role to play, but also recognize thatthere are some needs that only governments can meet – and many needsthat can only be met when all sectors work together. We know, as well,that complex problems require co ordinated responses. As this report
makes clear, partnership is a central element of our efforts. Just as wework with our partners to discover and develop energy, we must also
work with governments, nongover nmental organizations, multilateral
agencies, community groups and others in the private sector to ﬁndshared solutions to common challenges.
We recognize that corporate responsibility is not a static concept. As the
world changes, our company’s approach must evolve. T oday, that means
working to be more integrated and systematic in how we address these
issues, developing new policies and programs and ﬁnding better waysto measure our progress.
In that spirit, we will explore for new solutions every bit as determinedly
as we search for new energy resources, and we commit to continuallyimproving our performance in this important area.CEO Message
CEO Message
Dave O’Reilly 
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Dave O’Reilly
Chairman of the Board andChief Executive Ofﬁcer© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
32002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
At ChevronT exaco, we deﬁne corpor ate responsibility as applying our
core values consistently and balancing the needs of our key stakeholders.
It means integrating social and environmental considerations into our
core business practices and decision-making to maximize the positive
impact of our operations on current and future generations. We aim to
be admired not only for the goals we achieve but how we achieve them.
The ChevronTexaco Way deﬁnes our vision and values. It describes our
commitment to respect the law, conduct our business in a socially
responsible and ethical manner, support universal human rights, protect
people and the environment, and beneﬁt the communities where wework. These values shape our culture and guide our decisions and actions.
They are the starting points for the de velopment of a more integrated
corporate responsibility strategy that builds on our on-the-ground experi-
ence in areas ranging from environmental conservation to communitydevelopment. Our goal is to create value for our stakeholders by operating
with integrity, effectively responding to  society’s expectations and contin-
ually improving our social, econo mic and environmental performance.ChevronT exaco Corp. is a global energy company engaged in all aspects
of the oil and gas industry, including exploration and production; reﬁn-
ing, marketing and transportation; chemicals manufacturing and sales;and power generation. We are also working to develop and commer-
cialize the next generation of pro mising energy technologies. Our com-
pany is headquartered in San Ramon, California and, at the end of 2002,employed approximately 53,000 people. Active in more than 180 coun-
tries, the company’s Caltex-, T exac o-, and Chevron-branded products
hold top-tier rankings worldwide. ChevronT exaco was formed in 2001by the merger of Chevron Corporation and T exaco Inc.
As of December 31, 2002, ChevronT exaco’ s worldwide operations include:
Exploration and Production (Upstream):
>ChevronT exaco has net proven reserves of about 12 billion barrels of
oil and gas equivalent. It produces ab out 2.6 million barrels equivalent
per day of crude oil and natural gas.
>Outside North America, ChevronT ex aco has major oil and gas produc-
tion operations in Angola, Ar gentina, Australia, China, Indonesia,
Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Philippines, Republic of Congo, Thailand,
Venezuela, the North Sea and the Middle East.
>Major oil and gas producing areas in North America include
California, Gulf of Mexico, T exas and Canada.
Reﬁning, Marketing and Transportation (Downstream):
>ChevronT exaco’s worldwide network of 23 wholly owned and joint
venture reﬁneries have total reﬁning capacity of more than 2.3 mil-
lion barrels of crude oil a day.
>The company operates more than 24,000 retail outlets (including
afﬁliates) and markets under the Chevron, T exaco and Caltex brands.
>Downstream global businesses include lubricants and aviation fuels
marketing, fuels trading and shipping.
>ChevronT exaco’s pipeline business transports crude oil and other
petroleum products throughout the United States. The company alsoholds a 15 percent interest in the 935-mile crude oil export pipelinebetween the T engiz oil ﬁeld in Kazakhstan and the Black Sea port 
of Novorossiysk.Our Values & VisionOverview & Strategy
Company Description
From The ChevronTexaco Way :
Our company’s foundation is built on our Values, which distinguish
us and guide our actions. We conduct our business in a sociallyresponsible and ethical manner. We respect the law, support
universal human rights, protect the environment, and beneﬁtcommunities where we work. Our Values include:
> Integrity
> Trust > Diversity> Partnership> High Performance> Responsibility> Growth> Protecting People and the EnvironmentPetrochemicals:
>ChevronT exaco is one of the world’s largest producers of commodity
petrochemicals through Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, a50/50 joint venture with ConocoPhillips.
>Chevron Oronite Company, a fuel and lubricating oil additives
operating company, supplies one-fourth of the world’s fuel andlubricants additives.
Power Generation:
>The company has interests in 30 power projects operating or being
developed on ﬁve continents. Proje cts in operation generate more
than 4,500 megawatts of electric power.
Energy T echnologies:
>ChevronT exaco has invested in a range of energy technologies,
including wind and solar power genera tion, fuel cells, hydrogen-
fueled transportation systems and advanced batteries for hybridelectric vehicles.ChevronTexaco’s ﬁrst corporate responsibility report
Corporate responsibility is not new to ChevronT exaco, but reporting on
our social, economic and environmental pe rformance in a comprehensive,
global way is. This ﬁrst report simultaneously conveys that ChevronT exaco
has long been addressing many corporate responsibility issues and that weare working to manage them in a more integrated and systematic way. Itdescribes where we think we are doing well and where we are not satisﬁedwith our performance.
Addressing the key issues facing our company
This ﬁrst ChevronT exaco corporate r esponsibility report includes infor-
mation on social, economic and en vironmental issues and performance.
The issues covered reﬂect our views on the key corporate responsibilityissues facing our company, as well as our understanding of external stake-holders’ opinions on the most signiﬁcant and material impacts of ouroperations. In developing this report ,we were informed by the Global
Reporting Initiative (
GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We intend
to continue to assess GRI and other external reporting frameworks as they
evolve and apply them as appropriat e for our company in future reports.
2002 information presented in context
This report focuses on the per formance of our owned and operated
businesses and generally does not a ddress the performance of our sup-
pliers, contractors or partners. We have tried to focus primarily on2002 information in the report. But where we feel it provides a morecomplete picture of our performance or impacts, we have included
some historical information that predates the merger of Chevron andTexaco in 2001 and, in some instances, also included information from
2003. We plan to publish a corporate responsibility report annually.
Developing performance indicators
Where possible, we have included corporatewide performance data
and information. In many instances, however, we provide informationor examples on a country, operating company or business unit level.Operating in more than 180 countries and in multiple business sectorsrequires that we be responsive to local laws and issues and ﬂexible in
how we address them in unique operating environments. At the sametime, we must develop appropriat e corporatewide performance indica-
tors for measuring and reporting on corporate responsibility issues.
A baseline for continual improvement
We recognize that we can expand the scope and completeness of our
corporate responsibility reporting in the future, and we view this report
as the baseline for continual improvement. We are working to identifyadditional indicators and metrics that are valuable to us and that willhelp us and others assess our corporate responsibility performance. Welook forward to feedback on what is contained in this report.
4About this Report2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Overview & Strategy
© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Company Description (Continued)An Integrated Corporate Responsibility Strategy: A New Imperative
Immediately following the 2001 merger of Chevron and T exaco, we
conducted an internal assessment of our corporate responsibility prac-
tices. Our company has a number of policies, programs and activitiesthat relate to corporate responsibility, and around the world, we havegained on-the-ground experience addressing issues ranging from HIV/AIDS to operating in ecologically se nsitive regions. But we saw an
opportunity to take a more integrated approach to corporate responsi-
bility and, in some instances, enhance or  formalize our efforts. This was
driven by our desire for our activit ies and operations to create beneﬁts
for society, the environment and the communities in which we work,
while simultaneously creating va lue for our stockholders.
Better Understanding Our Operating Environment 
and Changing Expectations 
We recognize that, like all companies, we must be cognizant of how we
manage the social, economic and environmental impacts of our opera-tions. T o help us learn about emer ging issues, we undertook a series of
discussions with corporate responsib ility experts and other stakeholders
to increase our understanding of these changing expectations and their
perceptions of our performance. We  also researched what other compa-
nies are doing to address corporate responsibility. As we’ve sought tobroaden and deepen our und erstanding of the issues that affect our
business and the impacts of our operatio ns, we’ve focused on the issues
that we believe are of particular releva nce to the energy industry given
the nature, location and impacts of our operations. These include:
>ethics, transparency and ﬁnancial reporting;
>community engagement and development;
>human and labor rights;
>health and safety;
>environment, conservation and climate change;
>workplace practices and employee relations;
>integration of corporate responsibility considerations 
into our supplier relationships.Reviewing Our Policies and Processes
An important early step in our process of developing an integrated cor-
porate responsibility strategy was to inventory and evaluate our policiesand processes related to the issues we believe are most relevant to us andour stakeholders. We are a founding supporter of the Global SullivanPrinciples, an external standard covering a range of social and environ-
mental issues. We also have numerous internal policies, programs andactivities related to various aspects of corporate responsibility. We saw,
however, an opportunity to approach corporate responsibility in a more
systematic way. As a result, we have begun developing some new policies
and processes that span our worldwide operat ions which we believe will
enable us to manage these issues more effectively.
Our Near-Term Corporate Responsibility Priorities
Building on our existing corporate r esponsibility policies and activities,
we are focusing efforts in the following areas:
>Corporate Responsibility Guiding Principles – We are developing
principles that will provide additional operational guidance toemployees about how to put The ChevronTexaco Way commitment
to “conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical man-
ner, respect the law, support universal human rights, protect the
environment and beneﬁt the communities where we work” intopractice in our day-to-day actions and decisions.
>Pilot Projects – We are planning pilot projects in a sampling of opera-
tional locations to gain  practical experience in taking a more systematic
approach to corporate responsib ility management. We want to identify
where we can better integrate social and environmental considerationsinto our existing management systems as well as areas where we mayneed to develop new processes to more consistently incorporate these
concerns into day-to-day decision-making. The goal is to learn tech-
niques and develop tools that can then be applied across our company.We believe the pilots also will help us learn additional ways to measure
and assess our corporate responsibility performance.
>Human Rights and Community Engagement – Our review identiﬁed
these two issues as being of particular and increasing importance toChevronT exaco. Building on our existing policy framework, we aredeveloping a corporate Human Rights Statement to provide additionalguidance on conducting our operat ions in a manner consistent with
universal human rights principles. We are planning to test implemen-tation of the statement in the coming year. We also initiated an assess-ment of our global community engagement activities to learn ways toincrease the impact of our efforts.
5Corporate Responsibility Strategy2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Overview & Strategy
© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.October
2001
Merger
2001Strategy Development
Policy Development
Corporatewid e DeploymentIntegrated Corporate Responsibility
Manageme nt Piloting
Measurement & ReportingInternal & External
Assessment
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006ChevronTexaco’s Corporate Responsibility Approach
ChevronTexaco+We think of our stakeholders as all those who affect, are affected by or
have a legitimate interest in our company’s performance. Our stakehold-ers include our stockholders, employees, business partners, host govern-ments, customers and the local communities where we operate. We viewengaging these stakeholders as an essential part of corporate responsibil-
ity. ChevronT exaco also consults and works with nongovernmentalorganizations, multilateral agencies and others committed to construc-tive dialogue. ChevronT exaco engages stakeholders in a variety of ways,including formal consultations, informal or ad hoc feedback, surveys, as
well as through other interactions that arise in the course of business.
As a decentralized company whose op erations span the globe, we have
found it effective to do a great deal of listening, learning and dialoguingdirectly at the local level. As we work to develop a more integratedapproach to corporate responsibility, we also are looking at ways to bemore systematic in engaging our stakeholders and others. We aim to
build better processes to transfer learning from the local level throughoutthe company so that we can better understand and respond to emergingissues. At the corporate level, we ar e focusing on being more proactive in
engaging on important, global issues that cut across our operations.Integrating Corporate Responsibility into Our Business
As part of our effort to develop and implement a more integrated corpo-
rate responsibility strategy, we are reviewing our existing management
systems and processes to identify wher e corporate responsibility consid-
erations can be more fully or consistently integrated into them. Currentprocesses are already in place to systematically address health, environ-ment and safety considerations ;ethics and compliance performance; and
human resources issues.
Strategic and Business Planning Process
The backbone of our company’s management systems is our Strategicand Business Planning Process. This process is designed to set and buildinternal alignment around the strategic direction for the company. Italso incorporates an assessment of the future risks and uncertaintiesChevronT exaco faces. Our Strategic and Business Planning Process setsperformance objectives for each business unit, including those relatedto health, environment, safety and reliab ility. Managers at all levels are
expected to systematically monit or performance against their objectives.
Operational Excellence Management System
A signiﬁcant component of our overall approach to managing our busi-
ness is our Operational Excellence Management System ( OEMS ), which
spells out speciﬁc requirements for management of health, environment
and safety ( HES ) issues, in accordance with our HES Policy. Reliability
and efﬁciency also are addressed by the OEMS .
First published in 2001, the OEMS includes many expectations previ-
ously in place in ChevronT exaco legacy companies, some dating to theearly 1990s. The 
OEMS establishes a common set of expectations for
ChevronT exaco businesses. These expectations cover areas ranging fromfacility design and construction through operation and decommission-ing. The system is ﬂexible enough to allow our businesses to addresspriority issues for their operations  while meeting corporate-level expec-
tations. Since the merger in October 2001, deployment of the 
OEMS has
continued across our businesses, support ed by a network of appointed
“OEChampions.”
ChevronT exaco’s OEMS is consistent with other ge nerally accepted envi-
ronmental or HES management systems. The system establishes clear
expectations for per formance, processes for establishing priorities, and
requirements for developing and implementing plans for continual
improvement. The OEMS also provides for regular evaluation of the
6Engagement & Dialogue2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Overview & Strategy
© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Management Systems© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.system’s effectiveness. The OEMS is designed to conform to the standard
for environmental management systems outlined in ISO 14001. As of
midyear 2003, some 29 facilities or operations within ChevronT exacohad re ceived 
ISO 14001 certiﬁcation.
Companywide implementation of the OEMS is monitored through an
Operational Excellence Review Process. Each reporting unit is subjecttoan 
OEreview, conducted by an internal team, every three to ﬁve
years. In an effort to maintain high-quality, unbiased reviews, review
team members are recruited from Ch evronT exaco organizations outside
the one being reviewed. They are selected based upon relevant skillsand experience and are given speciﬁc training on the review process.ChevronT exaco conducted 31 of these 
OEreviews in 2002.
7Management Systems (Continued)2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Overview & Strategy
OEMS Elements and Purpose Statements
Element 1 Security of Personnel and Assets
Provide a secure environment in which business
operations may be successfully conducted.
Element 2 Facilities Design and Construction
Design and construct facilities to prevent injury, illness and incidents and to comply with regulatoryrequirements.
Element 3 Safe Operations
Operate and maintain facilities to prevent injuries, illness and incidents.
Element 4 Management of Change
Manage both permanent and temporary changes to prevent incidents.
Element 5 Reliability and Efﬁciency 
Operate and maintain facilities to sustain mechanicalintegrity and pr event incidents.
Element 6 Third Party Services
Systematically address and manage contractor conformance to 
Operational Excellence .
Element 7 Environmental Stewardship
Manage environmental risks associated with facilityoperations to minimize impacts from emissions, releases, and wastes.
Element 8 Product Stewardship 
Manage potential risks of our products throughout the products’ life cycles.
Element 9 Incident Investigation
Investigate and identify root causes of incidents to reduce or eliminate systemic causes to prevent future incidents.
Element 10 Community Awareness and Outreach 
Reach out to the community and engage in open
dialogue to build trust.
Element 1 1 Emergency Management
Prevention is the ﬁrst priority, but be prepared for 
an emergency and mitigate any incident quickly and effectively.
Element 12 Compliance Assurance
Ensure that all employees and contractors understandtheir safety, health, environment and security respon-sibilities and comply with company policies andapplicable laws and regulations.
Element 13 Legislative and Regulatory Advocacy 
Work ethically and constructively to inﬂuence proposed
laws and regulations, and debate on emerging issues.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
82002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Overview & Strategy
Our Corporate Governance Framework
Sound governance of our company is an integral part of corporate
responsibility. ChevronT exaco’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, in
conjunction with our Restated Certiﬁcate of Incorporation, By-Laws and
Board committee charters, form our governance framework. The guide-lines, available on our Web site, cover a range of topics including theoverall role of the Board, key elem ents of Board membership and direc-
tor independence, speciﬁcs on Bo ard committees, ethical expectations
for Board members, Board and CEO performance review processes, and
processes for reporting concerns regarding accounting, internal account-ing controls and auditing.
ChevronT exaco’s Chief Executive Ofﬁcer David J. O’Reilly serves as the
Chairman of the Board of Directors. With the exception of the Chairman
and Vice Chairman, at the end of 2002 al l Board members were inde-
pendent directors as deﬁned by  the New Y ork Stock Exchange.
Role of Board Committees
Committees of the Board of Directors include: Audit, Board Nominating
and Governance, Management Compensation and Public Policy. Eachcommittee is entirely comprised of independent directors. The Audit
Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the corporation’s ﬁnancial
statements are properly audited, that the corporation maintains aneffective internal audit function and that the corporation complies withlegal and regulatory requireme nts, among other duties. The Board
Nominating and Governance Committee assists the Board in deﬁning
and assessing qualiﬁcations for membership on the Board of Directors,
and in identifying qualiﬁed candi dates, makes recommendations for
organization of the Board’s affairs and addresses stockholder concerns
regarding corporate governance, among other duties. The Management
Compensation Committee assists the Bo ard in determining salary and
other compensation matt ers for executive ofﬁcers and in establishing
and administering incentive compensation and equity-based compensa-tion plans for company manag ement, among other duties.
While corporate responsibility issues are embedded in the charter of
each of the Board committees, the Public Policy Committee has pri-mary responsibility for oversight of the company’s overall corporateresponsibility strategy and performance. The Public Policy Committee’s
charter is to identify, evaluate and monitor social, political and environ-
mental issues and concerns worldwide. It also reviews the company’sstrategy and performance related to  corporate responsibility. Members
of ChevronT exaco’s management regularly brief the Public PolicyCorporate Governance
Committee regarding corporate responsibility issues facing the company
and seek the committee’s input on strategies or approaches.
Corporate Responsibility Leadership at Executive Level
At the senior-management level, a variet y of structures exist to provide
leadership and accountability for the company’s corporate respon-sibility strategy and performance. The primary forum in this regard is
the Global Issues Committee, an executive-level, cross-functional teamchaired by ChevronT exaco’s Vice Chairman that oversees policy andstrategy development on issues of worldwide strategic importance
for the company. This group has formal responsibility for leadingChevronT exaco’s corporate responsib ility strategy development. Additi-
onally, corporate responsibility issues raised by the Public Policy
Committee or the full Board of Directors typically are brought to the
Global Issues Committee for resp onse. But other executive-level
committees – including the Executive Committee, Human Resources
Committee and Strategy, and Planning Committee – share responsi-
bility for aspects of ChevronT exac o’s corporate responsibility policies
and approaches.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
92002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Our Direct Social Responsibilities
ChevronT exaco’s operations can affec t people’s lives and society in
numerous ways. The social issues we believe we are most directly
responsible for are:
>conducting our business in an honest and ethical manner;
>valuing and respecting employees, in cluding supporting diversity,
hiring local employees, and providing employees with training anddevelopment opportunities;
>protecting the health and safety of people who work on our behalf
or live in the communit ies where we operate;
>engaging with and contributing to the communities where we work;
>supporting and promoting universal human rights consistent with
the legitimate role of business;
>participating constructively in shaping public policy on issues that
directly affect our company.
Helping Address Broader Social Issues
Companies such as ChevronT exaco operate in regions of the world
facing societal challenges that are beyond the boundaries of an indi-vidual company’s activities or sphere of inﬂuence, such as poverty,
public health, education, human rights, and national and regional stability.
Although we cannot and should not assume the role of government,
we accept the challenge – in coop eration with all sectors – to help
address these issues. Our core business of supplying affordable, reliableenergy is an important part of economic development and improvingpeople’s quality of life. In addition to supplying this energy, we provide
employment and help employees de velop skills and experience, spur
economic growth, transfer technology ,and contribute to the commu-
nities where we operate.
In many countries, national governments ha ve taken direct control over
their energy resources, and global energy companies operate in partner-ship with these governments. We recognize, however, that the beneﬁtsof energy resources have not always reached the local communitieswhere we operate. Some countries and regions have been described assuffering from the so-called “resource curse,” a term economists use todescribe locations with abundant natural resources that are prone toperform worse on economic and social development indicators than
more resource-poor countries. ChevronT exaco is concerned about thisissue. In our view, addressing fundamental issues related to poverty andhealth is a critical stepping stone to being able to help ﬁnd solutions tothe range of other complex social, economic and environmental issues
where we operate.
About This Section: Working to Measure Social Impacts
Measuring and reporting on the social impacts of commercial operations
are still in an early state of de velopment, compared with ﬁnancial and,
to a lesser extent, environmental reporting. Many of the topics addressed
in the social section of this report do not lend themselves easily to quan-
tiﬁable measurement. Where possible, w e have provided speciﬁc perform-
ance data, but the majority of the data are qualitative. ChevronT exaco isamong the many companies working to better understand, measure andreport our social impacts and performance.Introduction to Social Issues Section
In Maricaibo, Venezuela, employee Joe Wright plays with children of the
orphanage Casa Hogar Simon Rodriguez, which ChevronTexaco built andsupports with employee volunteers. 
© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
10Engagement and Dialogue2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
In the Niger Delta, frustrations over
these chronic problems at times swellinto protests, which sometimeshave become violent. Over the last
several years, CNL facilities andemployees have encountered severalsuch situations, a powerful illustra-tion of the challenges of operatingin the region. Faced with such difﬁ-cult situations, the company’s ﬁrstpriority is always to protect people’ssafety, then to seek inclusive dialogueto resolve differences.
In 1998, an incident involving a CNL facility ended in tragedy. In that case,
200 militant youths seized the offshore Parabe oil production platform,
holding close to 200 national and expatriate employees hostage, protestinginadequate job opportunities and demanding a substantial increase in com-munity development investments. In hopes of a peaceful resolution, CNLmanagement negotiated with the group’s representatives, but without suc-cess. When, after three days, the negotiations were not advancing, and thethreats against CNL employees held captive continued, Nigerian authoritieswere called in to restore order. When the military arrived, conﬂict ensued
between the Nigerian authorities and the protesters. Shots were ﬁred, andtwo protesters were killed. CNL deeply regrets these deaths.
In the summer of 2002, CNL’s commitment to peaceful resolution of conﬂict
was tested again, this time with a more positive outcome. Local women
occupied CNL’s Escravos oil terminal, insisting that CNL provide municipalservices and facilities to their communities and create new jobs for the menin their villages. CNL managers halted oil operations, a critical step to pro-tect people’s safety, and began discussions with the protesters. Ten dayslater, the occupation ended peacefully.
Shortly after, CNL formed a partnership with several third-party develop-
ment organizations, including the United Nations Development Program(UNDP). CNL and UNDP will develop a coordinated master plan for separateDelta projects, such as building schools, roads and hospitals.
Illustrating that the challenges will continue, in early 2003, militant youths
in the Delta region embarked on a violent protest against the local govern-ment prior to general elections in the country. This action led to communitymembers’ deaths, as well as signiﬁcant loss of life among military personneland oil workers, and resulted in widespread destruction of homes and prop-erty. Acting quickly to protect lives, CNL shut down operations, mobilized itsThe Niger Delta illustrates some of the most difﬁcult conditions ChevronTexacofaces anywhere. Poverty, ethnic and tribal tensions, and unstable law andorder are among the challenges faced by Chevron Nigeria Ltd. (CNL).
The Escravos oil terminal, located 
in the Niger Delta and operated byCNL in partnership with the NigerianNational Petroleum Corp. (NNPC),processes up to 480,000 barrels ofoil a day. CNL employs 2,000 peo-ple, approximately 90 percent ofwhom are Nigerians. Three out offour CNL managers are Nigerian.
“The Niger Delta presents extraordinary challenges for CNL and other com-
panies that operate there,” says Robert Wasserstrom, a former ColumbiaUniversity anthropologist who is helping CNL redesign its community devel-opment strategy. “In my view, this area is one of the most difﬁcult socialenvironments in the world, especially after 37 years of military government.Traditional economies and social organizations have been severely dam-
aged, leaving the area with no way to make consensus decisions or resolveconﬂict. Meanwhile, anger is growing among local villagers, who feel theyhave received few beneﬁts from either oil companies or the government.”
ChevronTexaco’s afﬁliates have operated in Nigeria for more than 40 years
and, in that time, have worked to ﬁnd means of helping to address thesecomplex challenges. As part of its commitment to contribute to the localcommunity, CNL has partnered with aid organizations, nongovernmentaland community-based organizations. CNL has spent more than US$90million on community development since the early 1990s for water andpower projects, roads, canals, jetties, schools and hospitals. Through theseefforts, CNL has learned much about engaging with local communities, try-ing to make meaningful and sustainable contributions to social and eco-nomic development and working to support universal human rights.
CNL is proud of the many positive impacts it has had on people’s lives – on
the more than 5,000 students per year who receive company-sponsoredscholarships or the thousands of villagers each year who receive medicalcare at CNL’s riverboat clinic. But CNL also recognizes that despite the com-pany’s and its partners’ determination to help solve community problems,many of the region’s residents lack jobs, adequate clean water, education,training or health care.Chevron’s Riverboat Clinic bringsmedical services to communitiesnear Escravos, Nigeria.
In the Niger Delta, thousands of
miles of rivers form the highwaysand communication routes forhundreds of villages that sit abovesome of the most oil-proliﬁcgeology in the world.Case Study > Addressing Complex Challenges 
in Nigeria© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.medical personnel, hired planes from
Nigeria and neighboring countries,and airlifted more than 3,000 people –including 2,000 displaced communitymembers – to safety in the neighbor-ing city of Warri. While these protestswere not directly tied to CNL, the
company used its resources to evacu-ate both employees and communitymembers. The company also maderepeated public calls urging all parties
to exercise restraint and to seek inclu-sive dialogue and peaceful resolution.
The difﬁcult situation in the Niger Delta affords us the opportunity to
contribute to the improvement of conditions and learn important lessonsabout the limitations of what can be achieved through our corporateresponsibility efforts. As an individual company, CNL can help provide
much-needed infrastructure, educational, health and other developmentalneeds to the people. However, it cannot solve historic, fundamental gover-nance, security and economic problems. CNL is continuing to collaboratewith others to help improve the living conditions of the people close to ouroperations, while leaving minimal footprints of our activities.Case Study > Addressing Complex Challenges 
(Continued) in Nigeria
112002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Policy: Our Business Conduct and Ethics Code
Integrity is one of ChevronT exaco’s core values, and we are committed
to meeting the highest ethical standards in all our business dealings.
ChevronT exaco’s policy is to adhere to the letter and the spirit of the
law. The ChevronT exaco Business Conduct and Ethics ( BC&E ) Code
describes the company’s policies for pr oper business conduct in a range
of areas, such as conﬂicts of inter est, public policy activities, gifts to
ofﬁcials, agreements with competitors, privacy of personal informa-tion, nondiscrimination, and U.S. expo rt controls and trade sanctions.
ChevronT exaco’s Manual of Compliance Procedures and Guidelinesprovides greater detail on speciﬁc laws and policies related to many ofthe issues addressed in the 
BC&E Code.
Also included in our BC&E Code is ChevronT exaco’s policy to comply
fully with the letter and spirit of the U.S. Government’s Foreign CorruptPractic es Act (
FCPA ). Payments to international ofﬁcials or parties
for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business is strictly againstChevronT exaco policy, even if the refusal to make them may cause thecompany to lose business. In instances where ofﬁcials expect payment
to expedite the proper performance of “routine governmental action” –
a practice allowed under the 
FCPA – ChevronT exaco requires all such
requests to be forwarded to our Corporate Comptroller for review
and approval.
Approach: Rigorous Processes for Operating Ethically
We use a variety of processes and control systems, up to and including
termination, to ensure compliance with our ethical policies and guide-
lines and accountability for violations.
ChevronT exaco Directors, employees and contractors are required to
comply with the BC&E Code and the Manual of Compliance Procedures.
All employees are required to read and be trained on the code. The AuditCommittee of the Board of Directors helps the Board monitor the com-
pany’s adherence to the 
BC&E Code. ChevronT exaco operating compa-
nies and corporate departments have their own Compliance/AuditCommittees. These committees are responsible for overseeing compli-
ance and ensuring that their respecti ve organizations develop, imple-
ment and effectively operate proc esses to provide reasonable assurance
of compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and company poli-cies. Corporate Compliance Audits are conducted by an Internal Auditfunction to help ensure compliance processes are functioning properly.Ethics
In early 2003, unrest in the Niger
Delta led ChevronTexaco to airliftworkers and 2,000 displaced
community members to safety in nearby Warri.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
122002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Operating company and corporate department heads must send an
annual “Representation Letter” to the corporation conﬁrming that they
have effective processes in place to ensure compliance with all applicablepolicies, laws and regulations. This letter covers areas ranging fromconﬂicts of interest and the 
FCPA to health, environment and safety and
human resources issues such as anti-harassment. If, during the year,Internal Audit has issued a “less than satisfactory” audit in any area, the
representation letter must explain what co rrective action is being taken.
A representation also has to be made that processes are in place to iden-tify and bring to management’s attention any areas where companyemployees or directors are exposed to 
U.S.penalties or criminal liability
in connection with nonoperate d joint-venture operations.
Ifany employee or director has information that indicates another
employee or agent, consultant or contractor is violating ChevronT exacopolicies or any applicable laws, the 
BC&E Code requires him or her to
report their concerns to management, legal counsel, the Corporate
Auditing Department, Corporate Security or ChevronT exaco’s global
hotline. All calls to the hotline are conﬁdential and can be made anony-mously. ChevronT exaco also provid es for direct communication of
Hotline calls to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. It is
ChevronT exaco’s policy that no employee will be retaliated against formaking a report of a suspected violation of the company’s policies or
law. Any subsequent corrective or disciplinary actions taken againstindividuals who violate the code are taken at the local level and nottracked on a corporatewide basis.
ChevronT exaco gives employees clear guidelines on appropriate ethical
behavior and reinforces those guidelines. Yet policies, principles andguidelines – no matter how comprehensive – cannot always providedeﬁnitive answers to employees’ qu estions about conduct. Ultimately,
the company relies on its values and employees’ good judgment, includ-ing a sense of when it’s appropriate to seek guidance on the appropriatecourse of conduct.2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
Background: Participating in the Political Process
The laws and regulations governing co rporate political activities vary
across different countries. In some countries, including the UnitedStates, the right to participate in the political process and public policydebate extends to corporations as well as individuals. In recent years,there has been heightened public interest in corporate participation inthe public policy process. In addition to responding ethically and hon-
estly to issues that affect our b usiness, employees, stockholders, cus-
tomers and suppliers, we also recognize the need to demonstrate how
our political activities and public policy positions align with our stated
commitments to social and environmental responsibility.
Approach: Engaging Ethically and Constructively
Consistent with the values expressed in The ChevronTexaco Way ,w e  seek
to work ethically and constructively to inﬂuence proposed laws and regula-tions and debate on emerging issues that affect our business. We believe itis the company’s fundamental right and responsibility to participate in the
political process. In our political activi ties, ChevronT exaco is committed to
adhering to the highest standards of ethics and transparency, and to com-plying with the letter and spirit of all laws and regulations governing politi-
cal contributions, gifts and lobbying. When we advocate for proposedlaws and regulations or debate on emerging issues, our intent is to take aconstructive approach to addr ess legitimate business and societal needs.
ChevronT exaco engages in public policy debates and advocates our posi-
tion at the local, state and federal le vels; participates in trade associations
and other advocacy organizations; and lobbies public bodies and ofﬁcials.In the United States and Canada, where permitted by law, ChevronT exaco
makes political contributions under corporate policy. ChevronT exaco
operates under self-imposed procedures that require strict review of everypolitical contribution to ensure compliance with all requirements forcontributions, lobbying activities and gifts at every level of government.
The ChevronT exaco Employees Political Action Committee (
CTEPAC ) is
a forum for eligible employees, st ockholders and stockhold er retirees to
voluntarily contribute limited amounts to a fund that supports the elec-
tion of candidates for federal and certain state ofﬁces in the United States,as authorized by and in accordance with applicable laws.
CTEPAC pro-
vides a collective mechanism for ChevronT exaco employees to exercise
their right to participate in the public policy process. A list of contribu-tions made during 2001 –2002 can be viewed on the Federal Election
Commission Web site.
It is ChevronT exaco’s policy to furnish a list of all political contributions
to any stockholder upon request.Political Activities Ethics (Continued)© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
132002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
>that civil society organize and enga ge constructively, while continuing
to monitor the process and remind its participants of the opportunity
we all have to work together to affect real change;
>that private-sector companies continue to demonstrate their commit-
ment to implement the agreed-upon aims of the EITI initiative. For
our part, we have pledged our own commitment to do so.Revenue Transparency
Background: Addressing a Complex Issue
Governments in some countries where energy development takes place –
particularly those in the developing world – have been accused of lacking
sound governance systems, condoning corruption and failing to distribute
the beneﬁts of their energy resources to their citizens. This is an enor-mously complex issue that straddles subjects such as sovereignty offoreign governments, the “ownership” of the resources themselves,sanctity of contracts and the appropriate role of companies in seekingto inﬂuence governments to better account for and manage these
signiﬁcant sums.
Over the past few years, a variety of efforts have emerged advocating for
greater transparency about the amounts and sources of revenues gener-
ated by the extractive industries. Many believe that such transparencywould increase the accountability of governments to demonstrate how
those funds are used for the beneﬁt of their citizens.
Approach: Participating in Voluntary Initiatives
Transparency is one of the fundamental values that guide ChevronT exaco’s
business conduct, and we have participated in the dialogue associated withmany recent revenue transparency initiatives. A consistent message fromChevronT exaco has been that for any of these initiatives to be meaningfuland achievable, they must honor the sancti ty of contracts; be inclusive of
governments, nongovernmental or ganizations and companies, without a
unilateral focus on any one; and remain voluntary.
ChevronT exaco views the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
(
EITI ), sponsored by U.K. Prime Minister T ony Blair, as a meaningful
attempt to tackle this difﬁcult issue. ChevronT exaco is proud to haveparticipated in the constructive dialogue process that 
EITI launched,
one that brought together gover nments, industry, international ﬁnancial
institutions (IFIs) and nongovernmental organizations to address a dif-
ﬁcult global issue.
ChevronT exaco has pledged its support to the Blair EITI ,while at the
same time issuing a challenge to all participants:
>that the G8 Governments who now drive the EITI initiative be prepared
to share leadership with host governments;
>that the IFIs, especially the International Monetary Fund, be prepared
to dedicate the resources and commit the necessary political will and
persuasive powers to carry it forward;© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
142002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Background: Local Communities are Key Stakeholders
The ChevronTexaco Way states simply, “We will beneﬁt the communi-
ties where we work.” Across our op erations, we deve lop, support and
participate in a range of community programs and activities with thegoal of positively contributing to the quality of life where we operate. In
addition to being a visible expressio n of our values, developing trusting
relationships with our host communities and helping address their
needs is an important component of our license to operate and, ulti-
mately, our business success.
But in many of the communities
where we operate, poverty per-
sists and multinational corpora-tions su ch as ChevronT exaco
increasingly are being called uponto ﬁll roles that have traditionally
been the domain of government,such as providing health care,education and basic infrastruc-ture. We believe that as a private-sector company we cannot – andshould not – take on the role ofgovernment. But we believe we
can make many meaningful contributions to improving the quality of life
in the communities where we operate and are focusing our resourcestoward helping to address these issues.
Approach: Working to Increase Our Positive Impact
Our goal is to be recognized as a leader in our industry in community
engagement and development. We are proud of the many positive con-tributions we have made in the communities where we operate but also
believe we can improve our effectiveness and increase the positive impactswe have in those places. As a result, we are taking an in-depth look at ourapproach in these areas, focusing on being more systematic in how weidentify, assess and address community issues and more focused in theways we support the communities wh ere we operate. We are looking at
issues such as:
>Sustainability of projects :We are working to better understand what
makes community projects and activi ties have truly lasting impacts,
not just in terms of ﬁnancial sustainab ility but also in building the
human and institutional capacity necessary to sustain long-term socialand economic development. We recog nize that we can more effectively
work with local governments to help secure future funding andtransfer a sense of responsibility. We  also see further opportunities to
develop and conduct activities in genuine collaboration with host
communities to create shared ownership of the outcomes. We also are
looking to develop more long-te rm relationships with nongovernmen-
tal and multilateral organizations, recognizing that the skills, expertiseand resources brought to a collective effort can increase the impact anyone sector can have alone.
>Assessing and responding to community needs :C h e v r o n T e x a co busi-
ness units, working with local residents and, often, with nongovern-mental or multilateral organizations, develop programs on a local
level so that they can be tailored to meet individual community needs.Some business units have formal processes for engaging with localcommunities to assess their needs in advance of designing community
projects. Others are exploring ways to better engage with host com-munities, working to help them deﬁne their own needs and to allowthe company to gain a deeper understanding of how we can helpaddress them.
>Measurement and evaluation :ChevronT exaco is looking at new ways
to measure and monitor the long-term impacts and effectiveness of
our community engagement and development programs. We believethere is a great deal we can learn in this area, and we are reachingout to experts from nongover nmental and development organizations
to help us design and implement more effective measurement and
evaluation processes.
Performance: Examples of Our Activities
Across its operations, ChevronT exaco develops, supports and participates
in a broad range of community enga gement and development activities.
In 2002, ChevronT exaco made community investments estimated at
US$62.8 million worldwide inareas including education andskills tr aining, human capacity
building, health, small-businessdevelopment, arts, and the envi-ronment. Over the past ﬁve years,ChevronT exaco’s communityinvestments (or the combinedinvestments of the two legacycompanies) have been essentially
consistent year over year, ranging
from approximately US$55 mil-lion to US $63 million annually.Community Engagement
020406080100Middle East  ($0.7)
Europe  ($1.0)Latin America  ($3.4)
North America  ($29.0)
Note: Includes ChevronTexaco share in affiliates. 
Amounts are in millions of $U.S.Africa  ($14.1)Eurasia  ($8.4)Asia Pacific  ($6.1)2002 Estimated Global  
Community Investments
Percent of total 62.8 MillionIn the Philippines, the company’s
Street-to-School program providesvocational training and scholarships.
© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
152002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
The following are illustrative 
of our community programs,reﬂecting the geographic diver-
sity of our operations and vari-ety of community activities:
> Skills Development in
Nigeria :C h e v r o n  Nige ria 
Ltd, ChevronT exaco’s afﬁliatein Nigeria, and the NigerianNational Petroleum Corp.,
in partnership with the Internatio nal Foundation for Education and
Self-Help and the Nigerian Opportunit ies Industrialization Centres,
have developed the T echnical Skills Acquisition Project. The projectprovides a yearlong job training program for youth in remote Niger
Delta communities, where unemployme nt is acute. About 160 men
and women have completed the program since it was started in 1996,and half have found paid employment in their ﬁeld. ChevronT exacohas invested more than US$1 million in the project and plans toexpand the program to 120 trainees per year.
>Technical Institute in Indonesia :In Riau Province on the Indonesian
island of Sumatra, PT Caltex Paciﬁc Indonesia (CPI), a ChevronT exacosubsidiary, sponsored the Polytechnic Caltex Riau (PCR), the province’s
first elite polytechnic university. PCR offers study programs in com-puter science, telecommunications and electrical engineering. Duringits ﬁrst year of operation in 2001, some 640 students – more thantriple the capacity at the time – applied to the polytechnic. By 2010, thecampus expects to enroll 5,000 students. The school is adding newstudy programs in 2003 and 2004 that match the province’s business
needs and contribute to its economy. CPI’s support of the universityincludes capital outlays of US$5.45 million and operating funds forthe ﬁrst three years, estimated to be approximately US$1.3 million.
>Helping Street Children in the Philippines :Caltex (Philippines) Inc.,
a wholly owned ChevronT exaco afﬁliate, is working with the govern-ment to help Philippine street children move out of poverty. TheCaltex Fund Street-to-School pr ogram, which was started in 1999 in
partnership with two nongover nmental organizations in Manila, has
provided shelter, scholarships and training for nearly 500 young peoplesince the program began. Indirectly, the program affects thousandsmore who participate in various livelihood and skills training initia-
tives sponsored by Caltex. In 2002, Caltex brought in several newnon-governmental partners to  expand the program nationwide. A com-
panion program launche d in late 2001, the Caltex In-Plant Training
Program, provides practical work experience for the older youth in
the program at the company’s Xpress Lube stations and w ith Caltex
retailers. In 2002, the Street-to-Scho ol program won the Institute of
Petroleum’s community initiative award.
>Supporting Education in Saudi Arabia :In Saudi Arabia and the
Partitioned Neutral Zone, Saudi Arabian T exaco (SAT) contributes
to health, education and cultural initiat ives, including sponsoring
the Al-Jasser Library in Saudi Arab ia, which helps preserve the her-
itage of the Arabian Peninsula. SAT also sponsors the Al-Birr Chari-
table Society, which addresses the social and economic needs ofSaudi citizens, providing training in a range of skills, as well as anumber of other educatio n programs and institutions.
>Small Business Development in Kazakhstan :In 1999 in Atyrau,
Kazakhstan, Chevron Muniagas Inc. (CMI), ChevronT exaco’s wholly
owned subsidiary, launched a Small and Medium Enterprise (SME)
Program, in partnership with the United Nations Development Pro-
gram, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
the U.S. Department of State. CMI and its partners created the three-year SME Program with the goal of making community investments
that promoted sustainable, grassro ots economic development. The
SME Program transferred entrepreneurial skills to local businesses,funded low-interest and no-collateral loans to Atyrau entrepreneurs,and helped prepare nearly 280 business plans, of which more than25 percent were approved for lo ans. The program concluded, as
planned, in 2002.
>Increasing Literacy in Latin America :Throughout Latin America and
the Caribbean, ChevronT exaco supports a variety of community pro-jects, including building medical and dental facilities, providing homesfor orphans, and drilling water wells. In particular, ChevronT exaco and
its partners focus on supporting ed ucation projects in the region. In
Venezuela, for example, 2,500 students have  beneﬁted from school
restoration projects that the company has supported since 1996. In
Brazil, 3,000 adults and children attained basic language competencyskills through the company’s national literacy program. In Colombia,a cultural and learning center built by the company serves 6,000 localchildren. In Argentina, ChevronT exaco’s local afﬁliate and a partnerbuilt Ruca Quimpen, a school that provides lodging, food and med-ical services to 40 children and their families.2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
Community Engagement (Continued)
Politeknik Caltex Riau, sponsored
by Caltex Paciﬁc Indonesia, is the
ﬁrst university of its type in centralSumatra.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Case Study > Angola Partnership Initiative
162002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
>Science and Math Education in North America :Since 1991,
ChevronT exaco has sponsored F amily Science, a program designed 
to build interest and skills in science and math. The program encour-
ages children of diverse backgrounds, especially minorities and females,to consider science-based careers. Famil y Science includes workshops
for teachers, parents and students in select locations in the United
States, Mexico and the Philippines. By including parents in the training,Family Science increases the likelihood that learning and an interest in
science will continue outside the classroom. Since 2001, more than
200 workshops have been held, and multiple scholarships have beengiven to instructors to expand the program in other communities.2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
In 2002, as Angola emerged from 30 years of civil war, more than one-third
of its population was displaced, and the social and economic fabric of thecountry was torn. ChevronTexaco, whose wholly owned subsidiary CabindaGulf Oil Company Limited has operated in Angola since the 1950s, has beenone of the largest foreign investors in the country. With the ending of the
war, we resolved to expand our
ongoing community programs to dosomething that would have a mean-ingful impact in helping the peopleof Angola recover from theirdecades of strife.
After research and discussion with
key stakeholders, ChevronTexaco
initiated a major new program, theAngola Partnership Initiative. Themission of the Initiative is to build
human capacity with a focus on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The primary focus areas of the program are:
> strengthen the supply of vocational training,
> expand the supply of micro-credit,> introduce business development services, and> strengthen the enabling environment for social 
and economic development.
Under the initiative, we have developed formal partnerships with the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the United NationsDevelopment Program (UNDP). Together, we have established a combinedgoal to raise US$50 million to support this initiative. Additional partnershipsand alliances are under discussion. ChevronTexaco has committed US$25million to support this effort.
Two projects already launched under the initiative are a program to support
the revitalization of the agriculture sector and the formation of a new micro-credit bank. Both projects focus on job training and creation, and providetechnical assistance and ﬁnancial stimulus for locally owned small andmedium enterprises.
The agricultural effort combines immediate hunger relief to the most vulner-
able segment of society and longer-term agricultural development throughseed multiplication and seed variety experiments. It also supports the cre-ation of some 200 farmer associations. This effort is designed to supportapproximately 160,000 rural families – representing more than 600,000individuals – with the goals of increasing food security, decreasing relianceThe Angola Partnership Initiative
is helping more than 3,000Angolan families through itssupport of small-scale farming.
Community Engagement (Continued)© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Case Study > Angola Partnership Initiative 
(Continued)
172002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
In 2001, Chevron Niugini Ltd.
(CNLG), in partnership with theWorld Wildlife Fund (WWF), formed
the Community Development Initia-tive Foundation (CDI), an independ-
ent, nonproﬁt organization workingon community development issuesin the region. Between 2001 and2003, ChevronTexaco and its joint
venture partners provided US$4.8 million (of which approximately $875,000was ChevronTexaco’s share) in grants and operational support to CDI.
In addition to furthering WWF’s efforts to protect natural resources, CDI
brings social services to rural communities affected by the oil industry,providing programs in health, education, agriculture, skills development
and cultural preservation, in support of government efforts.
CDI is a unique model for ChevronTexaco’s community engagement because,
in launching the foundation, the company created an independent opera-
tional entity with its own staff, facilities and mission solely focused oncommunity development. CDI assumed responsibility for Chevron Niugini’sexisting community development programs, bringing to it the foundation’s
network of expertise on development issues, as well as the trust of com-munity members. CDI blends both social and environmental considerationsinto one coordinated approach and is one of ChevronTexaco’s best exam-ples of a comprehensive community development program, designed tothrive long after a region’s oil stops ﬂowing.
In what will prove to be a test of CDI’s sustainability, in 2003 ChevronTexaco
sold our Papua New Guinea oil operations, a move the company currentlybelieves will not affect CDI’s continued operations. After receiving initialfunding from ChevronTexaco and its joint-venture partners, CDI begansoliciting funding from other sources to help guarantee its growthand survival after ChevronTexaco’s – and ultimately the oil industry’s – exit
from the region.
ChevronTexaco believes that our experience with CDI has provided valuable
learning about effective community engagement and innovative approachesto making a positive and lasting contribution to the communities in whichwe operate. To capture this learning and apply it elsewhere in our operations,
ChevronTexaco has commissioned an independent review and analysis ofCDI. After its planned completion in 2003, the ﬁndings of the review willinform ChevronTexaco’s future community engagement activities aroundthe world.on importation of seed, creating better access to markets and information
and, ultimately, increasing rural incomes.
The planned Angola Enterprise Development Bank will provide small loans
and other banking services to low-income Angolans and small businesses.The bank intends to ﬁll a need for small-scale credit that is not currentlycovered by the commercial banking sector. In addition to ChevronTexaco,the other stakeholders in the bank are major European development insti-tutions which are working for the ﬁrst time in Angola.
In addition to providing ChevronTexaco a vehicle to make a contribution to
Angola’s recovery, our involvement in the Angola Partnership Initiative hasprovided us with invaluable experience in developing long-term, mutuallybeneﬁcial partnerships with nongovernmental and multilateral organizations.We have also found that it has helped us bring together interested parties
to seek ways to be more efﬁcient in our collective efforts.
2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
Papua New Guinea children learn
about disease prevention.Case Study > Community Development 
in Papua New Guinea© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
182002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues 2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
Background: The Private Sector’s Role
The private sector can play an important role in the promotion of human
rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights – which is widely
considered the most important foundatio nal document on human rights
– states that “every organ of society” has the obligation to further humanrights. But given the complex nature of human rights issues, determining
the appropriate roles and responsibilities of private, public and civil sectoractors is a delicate and evolving task.
ChevronT exaco, along with other companies in the energy industry,
often operates in countries where there is civil and political unrest, andwith this can come allegations of human rights violations. ChevronT exaco
and others have a direct interest in operating in environments wherethe rule of law is applied fairly and consistently, and where individualsare treated with respect and dignity. As a result, over the past severalyears, companies have come to place greater attention on the promo-
tion of human rights.
Approach: Respecting Human Rights in Our Operations
As expressed in The ChevronTexaco Way ,we support universal human
rights and, in conducting our operations, we seek to uphold and respect
human rights principles, consistent with the role of business. We also arefounding supporters of the Global Sullivan Principles, which address arange of human rights issues. We are committed to working with govern-
ments, our business partners, nong overnmental organizations and the
communities where we operate to  develop a fuller understanding of
human rights issues, how they apply to our company and what wecan do to make a contribution consistent with our appropriate role.We see this as an important step toward the furthering of human
rights worldwide.
ChevronT exaco has long addressed many of the issues that fall under
the umbrella of human rights, such as employment practices, nondis-crimination, health and safety, and security of employees and companyfacilities. In 2002, we reviewed our policies, systems and practices todetermine how we might encourage better performance in this area,including more systematically inte grating human rights considerations
into our day-to-day operations. We also have engaged external stake-holders and human rights exper ts to assist us in this effort.
As a ﬁrst step following the review, we have developed a draft Human
Rights Statement, which builds on The ChevronTexaco Way and further
deﬁnes our commitments and approach in this area. The statement, which
was developed in consultation inside the company and with outsideHuman Rights
experts, addresses and provides guidance on issues such as employment
standards, security, conﬂict zones, indigenous peoples and humanrights assessments. We believe the statement will serve the following
practical functions:
>provide operational guidance for ChevronT exaco 
employees and partners;
>act as a framework for constructive dialogue with 
external organizations;
>be the starting point for company measurement 
of and reporting on performance.
Future Goals: Developing and Testing a Global Approach
We know developing a Human Rights Statement is only a ﬁrst step. We
are testing application of our stateme nt in select locations, including
some where we face signiﬁcant h uman rights challenges. We intend to
use this testing to gain a fuller understanding of how to apply the state-
ment in an operational environme nt, determine where human rights
considerations can be more systemat ically integrated into existing man-
agement processes, and how we can measure and monitor our perform-ance more effectively. We also intend to develop additional guidance,tools or training to support the implementation of the statement. Based
on the results, our aim is to revise and ﬁnalize the statement and begincorporatewide implementation in 2004.
Case Study > Human Rights Dilemma in Angola
A recent event in Angola illustrates the challenging and complex issues
related to human rights and the boundaries of responsibility between the
public and private sectors. ChevronTexaco faces these issues in many of thelocations where it operates. 
In December 2002, a report issued by the Coalition for the Reconciliation,
Transparency and Citizenship – a group composed of several non-govern-
mental organizations, Angolan unions and the Ad Hoc Commission forHuman Rights in Cabinda (which was formed by six citizens in the Angolanprovince of Cabinda) – alleged that the Cabinda Gulf Oil Company (CAB-GOC), a wholly owned subsidiary of ChevronTexaco operating in Angola,“should stop the complicity in allowing police investigations in theMalongo camp.”© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Case Study > Human Rights Dilemma in Angola
(Continued)
192002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Background: Protecting People is a Core Value
ChevronT exaco believes it has an oblig ation to protect the security of its
employees, assets and the facilities it operates. Protection of people is acore val ue at ChevronT exaco.
Like other companies in the oil and gas industry, we operate in some
environments where conﬂict and other security risks are present. Insome of these locations, our people and assets are protected and secured
with the support of public or private security forces.
Approach: Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights
ChevronT exaco participated in and supported the process of develop-
ing the U.S.-U.K. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights,released in December 2000. The Voluntary Principles came out of a
process that brought together extractive-sector companies, humanrights organizations, trade unions, and the governments of the United
States and United Kingdom to develop principles to guide companiesin maintaining the safety and security of their operations within aframework that ensures respect for human rights and fundamentalfreedoms. ChevronT exaco’s security practices take operational guid-ance from the Voluntary Principles, which are consistent with The
ChevronTexaco Way and the company’s efforts to develop a corpo-
ratewide H uman Rights Statement.
We regularly communicate our security expectations to the host gov-
ernments of the countries where we operate, our business partners, andthe private and public security forces we sometimes work with. In addi-tion, we encourage the U.S. Government to promote an environmentwhere other governments take respo nsibility for effectively addressing
human rights concerns.
ChevronT exaco’s Global Security group regularly engages with the com-
pany’s worldwide business units, including conducting periodic formal
Security Management Reviews (
SMR s). Incorporated into both the ongo-
ing engagement and the SMR process is an assessment of actions that
business units have taken to implement the Voluntary Principles intheir operations.
Individual ChevronT exaco business units are responsible for implement-
ing the Voluntary Principles in accordance with local laws and conditions,an approach we feel is most appropriate given the complexities of oper-ating in such a wide range of countries.Security
Within the CABGOC operating compound – called Malongo – there is a
Cabinda Province Law and Order police post. The post, which is operatedby the local police force independent of CABGOC, has been in Malongo for
decades. It is not unlike ﬁnding a police station within an airport or a largetrain station, providing basic civil law and order for, in this case, thousandsof employees living and working in Malongo. 
CABGOC management was troubled by this allegation and conducted an
internal investigation to determine the basis, if any, for this statement.Three CABGOC employees involved in the incident from which the chargestemmed were interviewed. CABGOC managers also met with the principalmembers of the coalition that had authored the report to further under-stand their speciﬁc charge.
According to the information available, Cabinda police had brought a
criminal suspect in for questioning to the police post in Malongo. The sus-pect was a journalist, whom the police had charged with fabricating astory about a presumed attack against the aircraft that ﬂies company per-sonnel within the country. The police also had summoned to this meetingtwo CABGOC supervisors, who were asked to comment on the allegationsthe suspect was making, because the journalist cited CABGOC sources asthe basis for his story. Based on the results of the questioning, the jour-nalist recanted and was released by the police.
In the end, no connection was made between the incident at the police
post and any CABGOC actions, other than the police bringing the suspectinto their post in Malongo. The police said it was easier to bring the sus-pect to the post in Malongo (where the two CABGOC supervisors were sta-tioned) than it would have been to bring the two supervisors to policeheadquarters in Cabinda.
But the lingering issue remains: What is the proper balance between a
local police force’s sovereign right to conduct its operations in its jurisdic-tions and a company’s responsibility to seek to ensure that actions relatedto its operations are conducted in a manner consistent with recognizedhuman rights principles? These issues are especially important when a policepost is in a company compound, or the investigations grow out of incidentsinvolving the company’s employees or property. ChevronTexaco – along withother companies, governments and nongovernmental organizations – hasengaged in the U.S.-U.K. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rightsand continues to work to apply these principles to help strike the properbalance between these important concerns.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
202002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Background: Our Goal is Zero
Protecting the safety and health of people who work on our behalf or are
affected by our operations is a core value at ChevronT exaco. In our view,every injury is preventable and our safety goal is simple: zero incidents.
Approach: Addressing 
Key Safety Challenges
We expect our business units to
manage health and safety issues –alongside environmental issues –as rigorously as they manage allother aspects of their b usiness.
In the deployment of our Opera-
tional Excellence ManagementSystem, safety and reliability
have been the initial priority areas for the development of new compa-nywide guidelines and performance expe ctations. Our approach to the
issue addresses our entire work force. W e require contractors to meet
the same health and safety expectations as employees.
We believe safe, reliable operations star t with safe designs. ChevronT exaco
facilities are designed and operated throughout their life cycle with the goalof preventing injuries and minimizing health and environmental impacts.
Following the 2001 merger of ChevronT exaco, we identiﬁed the follow-
ing key safety challenges:
>Motor vehicle crashes are the No. 1 cause of work-related fatalities.
>Contractors account for roughly two-thirds of the hours worked on
our behalf and more than 80 percent of work-related fatalities.
>Computer-related repetitive stress injuries account for more than
20 percent of employee work-related injuries.
To address these challenges, in 2002 ChevronT exaco established addi-
tional corporatewide performance expectations that build on our exist-
ing health and safety standards and programs. Speciﬁcally, we developedadditional guidance for our business units in contractor safety manage-ment, motor vehicle safety, and repetiti ve stress injury prevention and
reliability. We also instituted a number of new safeguards and guidelines,
such as prohibiting cell phone use while driving on company business,
creating new contractual safety standards and conducting mandatorycomputer workstation evaluations to assess those at risk of repetitive
stress injuries.Health & Safety
Cape Town trainees tour 
a Caltex reﬁnery.In addition to our focus on operat ional safety, ChevronT exaco pro-
vides employees with a range of health and wellness programs and
beneﬁts, which vary across our diff erent locations. In some places,
where local medical services are inadequate, ChevronT exaco operatesclinics that serve the health needs of employees and their families.
Performance: Making Progress and Committed to Improve
We profoundly regret that 16 people died in ChevronT exaco work-related
incidents in 2002. While this number is down from the 2001 total of 23fatalities, we view any work-related death as avoidable and are continu-ally striving to reach our goal of zero incidents.
Although we are disappointed that we did not meet all of the aggressive
targets we set for ourselves in 2002, we  are proud of the overall progress
we have made in improving our safety performance. Since 1999, wehave reduced our total rate of work-related injuries and illnesses by over30 percent for employees and nearly 60 percent for contractors. Also
since 1999, our fatal accident rate is do wn by 70 percent for employees
and more than 40 percent for contract ors. Additionally, several opera-
tions around the world have demo nstrated that incident-free operations
are possible. In 2002, we recognized more than 20 of our businesses –representing more than 5,000 employees – for operating one year with-
out a single employee injury.
Fatalities*
EmployeesContractors1999 2000 2001 2002
1
152
214
144
20ChevronTexaco Work-Related Fatalities
*1999 –2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 data 
are ChevronTexaco.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
212002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
In the early 1990s, the U.S. government’s Occupational Health and Safety
Administration issued new rules and guidelines covering “process safetymanagement” for the petrochemical industry. The move was a response to aseries of accidents the industry suffered from the mid 1970s to early 1990s.
At ChevronTexaco, we implemented new procedures to address with the
requirements of the new rules, and we also launched a complementary
safety and reliability initiative called Incident Free Operations (IFO) in themid 1990s. IFO aimed to determine the most common causes of seriousreﬁnery accidents and to systematically adopt practices to reduce their risk
of occurrence. A team studied years of reﬁnery incident data and identiﬁedtwo clear areas of concern: failures of pumps and furnaces, both standardequipment in every reﬁnery. 
We then set about tackling the issues related to these pieces of equipment.
In the process of analyzing incident data and root causes, we also appliedthe lessons we learned to a broader spectrum of issues. For instance, wedeveloped a successful risk-based inspection program for pumps and fur-naces. We then applied the same principles to improving the reliability ofﬁxed equipment like vessels, columns, tanks and piping. Finding that ourreﬁneries followed different operating procedures for pumps and furnaces,
we standardized those, as well as other basic procedures. To improve knowl-
edge sharing, we created best-practice teams that communicate importantoperational lessons and help drive the standardization of our operating andmaintenance practices across the various facilities. Our reﬁneries began toconsistently track their reliability and utilization rates, and used incidentdata to address emerging problems.
Our results in reducing incidents
due to furnace mishaps havebeen dramatic. Losses due to fur-naces have decreased from 20 to25 percent of total reﬁning
losses prior to 1996, to less than2 percent in 2002.
While we have dramatically
reduced serious reﬁnery inci-
dents due to pump and furnacefailures, a 1999 ﬁre caused by aseparated valve at our reﬁnery inRichmond, California, shows usthat the risk of incidents isalways present, and so is the
020406080100120
08
64210
91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 0215.056.3
3.054.8
4.21.03.44.16.5
1.10.8Furnace Incidents in ChevronTexaco  
U.S. Refining
Cost in millions of $U.S. (left scale)
Number of incidents (right scale)82.9Number of
incidentsCostFuture Goals: Setting a Target for Incident Reduction
Our ultimate goal is zero incidents. Our near-term target is to reduce
the total work force recordable incid ent rate by more than 25 percent
each year, which would mean a rate of 0.25 injuries per 200,000 hoursworked by 2006.*1999 –2001 data is Chevron, 2001 data 
are combined Chevron and Texaco, and 2002 data are ChevronTexaco.Motor Vehicle Safety*
Motor vehicle crashes  
per million miles driven
Company vehicle crash rate012345
99 00 01 02
American Petroleum Institute
Industry Benchmark: Employees
American Petroleum Institute
Industry Benchmark: ContractorsChevronTexaco: Employees
ChevronTexaco: Contractors99 00 01 020.00.40.81.21.62.0
*1999 –2001 data are combined 
Chevron and Texaco. 2002 data are ChevronTexaco.Total Recordable Incidents*
Recordable incidents  
per 200 thousand hours workedCase Study > U.S. Reﬁning’s Focus on
Safety ContinuesHealth & Safety (Continued)© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Case Study > U.S. Reﬁning’s Focus on
(Continued) Safety Continues
222002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
need for continuing improvement. With the sim ple conviction that accidents
are avoidable, employees at ChevronTexaco’s reﬁneries are determined tokeep improving the safety and the reliability of their facilities.
For a company with thousands of employees working around-the-clock in
oil ﬁelds, ships, reﬁneries and other industrial environments, the statisticwas surprising. Nearly two of every ﬁve workplace injuries reported in
Chevron in 1999 were sustained by people who were doing the same thingover and over: working on computers.
Such Repetitive Stress Injuries (RSIs) can result if an employee’s work
station is not set up properly, or simply by the work habits of the person.ChevronTexaco’s response to the RSI hazard was to create the ongoingRepetitive Stress Injury Prevention program (RSIP), a risk based program
that focuses on early identiﬁcation and prevention. The highly structuredprogram includes awareness and training, assessments of work stationsand work habits (often using a web-based tool), behavior-based observa-tion processes, early reporting of discomfort and rapid intervention whena potential problem is discovered. We believe that our program is amongthe best in industry.
So far our results are encouraging. The number of RSIs has dropped 32
percent from 2000 to 2002. And the injuries we are having are less severe.Based on the data from our units with the highest risk for RSIs, in cases wherethe employee is not able to work due to an RSI, the average number of dayslost per injury has dropped by almost 50 percent over the last four years.If an employee working on a ChevronTexaco offshore platform in the Gulf
of Mexico happens to rush up a ladder one-handed, rest a hand near mov-ing equipment, or merely lift a box without bending at the knees, he or sheis very likely to inspire a gentle correction from a concerned coworker. 
A successful program called Generating Awareness Through Observation
and Review, or GATOR, trains people to recognize all manner of workplacehazards and avoid behaviors that put them at risk of injury. Employees on these offshore platforms routinely ﬁll out “observation cards” that give
feedback to coworkers – issuing compliments when a job is done right andsuggestions when it could be done more safely. The feedback reinforces safebehaviors and suggests alternatives when something is unsafe. After sixyears of GATOR, nearly all the employees take part, and the program has
been particularly successful in the Western Shelf Proﬁt Center where approxi-mately 460 employees churn out about 5,000 observations each month.
Not surprisingly, injuries have declined dramatically as the number of obser-
vations has grown. Lost-time incidents in the Western Shelf’s organization
fell from 12 per year in 1998 and 1999 to zero in 2002. A companion program,launched recently to increase contractor participation, is yielding similarresults. Workers believe that GATOR has led to their best safety performance
on record for their unit, which covers about 45 offshore platforms. As of mid-year 2003, the unit has worked more than two years without an employee
lost-time injury, and more than 200 days with a contractor lost-time injury.
Case Study > Repetitive Stress Injury  
Prevention InitiativeCase Study > Peer Observation Improves Safety© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Case Study > HIV/AIDS Programs in Africa
232002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
According to UNAIDS and the World
Health Organization, at the end of2002 there were 29.4 million adults
and children living with HIV/AIDS insub-Saharan Africa. Approximately3.5 million new infections occurredthere in 2002, and an estimated 2.4 million Africans died from theepidemic in that year.
ChevronTexaco is the largest U.S.-
based investor in sub-Saharan Africa,and HIV/AIDS – as well as otherinfectious diseases such as malariaand tuberculosis – have had a pro-found impact on our employees andtheir families, our contractors andour host communities throughout
Africa. In addition to the human toll of HIV/AIDS, we also recognize that thesuccess of our company is linked inextricably to the health and productivity ofemployees and the communities we operate in. ChevronTexaco is respondingby developing a range of programs aimed at combating HIV/AIDS and other
public health issues in Africa.to effectively combat HIV/AIDS across our operations and share our
experiences with others.
We are reviewing and assessing our worldwide HIV/AIDS programs and
practices. In addition to gather ing information abou t own operations,
we are consulting with internal and external experts and reviewing lead-ing companies’ approaches to 
HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment.
Future Goals: Developing a Global Policy
ChevronT exaco intends to adopt a corporatewide HIV/AIDS policy
designed to provide a global standard on such issues as nondiscrimina-tion, testing, employee beneﬁts, conﬁdentiality and occupational healthand safety. We also are developing other tools and resources to help ourbusiness units develop and implement 
HIV/AIDS programs tailored to
their countries or regions.Background: The Human and Business Impacts of Disease
HIV/AIDS ,malaria, tuberculosis and other infectious diseases are press-
ing global issues with signiﬁcant human impact and related social, eco-nomic and political implications. Nowhere is the impact of
HIV/AIDS
and these other diseases currently more  apparent than in sub-Saharan
Africa, where ChevronT exaco is the largest U.S.-based investor. Forexample, with 10 percent of the world’ s population, Africa accounts for
70 percent of the world’s 
HIV/AIDS cases. Because the disease primarily
strikes people in their 20s to 40s – the most productive segment of thelabor force – it threatens to reve rse economic and development strides
African nations have made over the past decade.
For individual businesses,
HIV/AIDS can challenge their
ability to operate. In someAfrican nations, the epidemicmay affect as much as 30 percentof the labor pool over the next20 years, according to the Inter-national Lab our Organization.
But 
HIV/AIDS is not limited to
Africa. According to UNAIDS and
the World Health Organization,Eastern Europe and Central Asiahave the fastest-growing
HIV/AIDS epidemics worldwide.
Approach: Addressing HIV/AIDS on All Fronts
ChevronT exaco believes that multinational companies are important
participants in the global effort to ﬁnd solutions to HIV/AIDS and other
infectious diseases. ChevronT exaco’s HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention
programs in North America date from the 1980s, and since that time, thecompany has developed and supported a variety of other HIV/AIDS pro-
grams throughout its worldwide operations.
ChevronT exaco’s approach to addressing 
HIV/AIDS starts with the
premise that it is a preventable disease. Our awareness, prevention,voluntary testing, counseling and related programs focus on
employees, their families and host communities. We also work withgovernments, nongovernmental or ganizations, multilateral agencies
and international initiatives – su ch as the Global Business Coalition on
HIV/AIDS ,the World Economic Forum’s Global Health Initiative, the
United Nations, the U.S. State Department and the Corporate Council
on Africa’s Task Force on HIV/AIDS – to expand our knowledge of howHIV/AIDS & Other Infectious Diseases
ChevronTexaco helped build a blood
bank in Cabinda, Angola, whichreduced HIV cases caused by conta-
minated blood from 25 percent to 1 percent.
ChevronTexaco was an under-
writing partner in A Day in the
Life of Africa, an international
photojournalism project withproﬁts going to AIDS education.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
242002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Throughout our operations in Angola, Nigeria and South Africa, ChevronTexaco
promotes voluntary, conﬁdential testing, provides condoms to employees,and gives anti-retroviral drugs to pregnant women to stop mother-to-childtransmission of AIDS. ChevronTexaco employees and their families receivehigh-quality, comprehensive health care. In Nigeria and Angola, the com-pany employs about 250 medical personnel and runs its own clinics and hospi-
tals. In South Africa, the full scope of HIV/AIDS treatment services,including anti-retroviral drugs, are delivered to employees and their familiesby medical aid service providers. The company also developed an HIV/AIDS
awareness and communication program, training more than 50 staff mem-bers to ensure ongoing awareness on HIV/AIDS among staff.
Over the last several years, ChevronTexaco’s African business units have
been working to more closely coordinate their HIV/AIDS initiatives andbetter share information and learning across their different operations.For example, ChevronTexaco’s subsidiaries in Angola and Nigeria have
developed an overarching HIV policy based on a successful Caltex (SouthAfrica) model. Representatives of the different medical departments arein regular communication, helping one another address practical issues.
In 2001, Chevron Nigeria Ltd. (CNL), a wholly owned ChevronTexaco sub-
sidiary, received the Award for Excellence by the Global Business Coalitionon HIV/AIDS for its awareness and prevention programs, dating back to 1993.CNL’s program also was cited as a best practice by U.N. Secretary General KoﬁAnnan. In early 2003, in recognition of the company’s efforts, CNL ManagingDirector Jay Pryor was named by Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo asco-chairman of the Nigerian Business Coalition Against HIV/AIDS.
As part of CNL’s HIV/AIDS program, union leaders act as peer educators 
in company workshops, teaching the causes and means of prevention ofHIV/AIDS and encouraging employees to discuss cultural barriers to pre-vention. The company spreads its prevention message to the community,where an interactive youth program uses peer educators and role playingto target employees’ children. Education workshops in the broader com-munity promote safe sex, especially to prostitutes.
In Angola, ChevronTexaco’s subsidiary, CABGOC, runs a number of HIV/AIDS
programs for employees, their families and the local community. In 1992,the company also helped the government set up a blood bank in Cabinda,Angola’s northernmost province, which reduced the number of HIV casescaused by contaminated blood from 25 percent to 1 percent. CABGOCalso manages a related program to help the local government ﬁght tuber-culosis (TB). Identiﬁed cases of TB have more than tripled in the provincesince 1993, due in part to better diagnostics and awareness, but also dueCase Study > HIV/AIDS Programs in Africa
(Continued) to Cabinda’s rising rates of HIV . In addition to striking similar age groups,
the diseases fuel one another: TB accelerates HIV’s progression, and HIVincreases the risk of developing TB.
In the Democratic Republic of Congo, ChevronTexaco’s subsidiary, Muanda
Oil Co., conducts annual HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns for hundreds ofemployees, contractors and their families, one of the few such efforts inthat nation.
Additionally, in 2000, ChevronTexaco provided funding for “cyber training”
about HIV/AIDS through the Women’s Media Center to equip African jour-nalists with knowledge about the disease, and how it is spread and to pro-vide special training on reporting and writing about HIV/AIDS in Africa. In2002, ChevronTexaco was also a proud sponsor of the photo-documentary
book A Day in the Life of Africa, with all proﬁts from sales going toHIV/AIDS education in Africa.
According to Dr. Steve Simpson, ChevronTexaco’s regional medical director
in West Africa, the greatest remaining challenge the company faces relatedto its HIV/AIDS efforts in Africa is to ﬁnd a sustainable model for the deliv-ery of anti-retroviral therapy. In 2002, CABGOC set up a multidisciplinarytask force to explore this and other issues. The task force is in the ﬁnalstages of the project and will share its ﬁndings with other business units.Summing up the company’s efforts, Simpson says, “No business anywhere inthe world, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, can afford to ignore AIDS. Asfar as ChevronTexaco is concerned, this is a ﬁght we will not, cannot andmust not walk away from.”© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Employees are Key Stakeholders
ChevronT exaco’s approximately 53,000 employees are critical to the
company’s success. ChevronT exaco seeks to provide employees with mean-
ingful work, fair compensation,
opportunities to develop skillsand knowledge, and honest andregular feedback on their perform-
ance.ChevronT exaco also strives
to provide a wo rk environment in
which all employees are treatedwith respect and dignity.
Approximately 43 percent of
ChevronT exaco employees are in North America, 26 percent in Asia-Paciﬁc,14 percent in Africa, 9 percent in Europe and the Middle East,
and 8 percent in South America. In the United States, approximately11 percent of ChevronT exaco’s U.S. work force is unionized.
252002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Employees
Managing Work Force Issues
In 2002 we launched the ChevronT exaco global People Strategy, which
focuses on creating a global work  force, valuing and m anaging diver-
sity, developing leade rs and managing talent. The strategy is designed
to help us attract and re tain the employees we need 
to achieve our business goals. Chevro nTexaco’s executive-level Human
Resources Committee overs ees our worldwide employee relations poli-
cies, programs and performance. I ndividual operating companies and
corporate departments have Personnel Development Committees to
manage work-force issues for the ir respective organizations.
Historically, Chevron and T exaco cond ucted periodic surveys to gauge
employees’ satisfaction, commitment  to the company and opinions on
a range of other issues. Both worldwid e surveys and localized or “pulse”
surveys were used. In 2004, we plan to conduct our ﬁrst worldwideemployee survey since the merger. The results of this survey will be animportant indicator of our performance in employee relations and willserve as the baseline for tracking our performance over time. In thefuture, we intend to conduct regular employee surveys and report their
major ﬁndings.
8%
9%
14%
26%North
America43% 
Asia-
PacificAfricaEurope &
M. EastSouth
AmericaGeographic Breakdown 
of ChevronTexaco EmployeesChevronTexaco employees in
California’s San Joaquin Valley.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
26Diversity2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Background: Respecting
Diversity is a Core Value
Respect for diversity is one of
ChevronT exaco’s core values. T ous, this means appreciating theuniqueness of individuals andtheir varied perspectives and fos-tering an inclusive environment
where every person can fullyparticipate. Throughout ourglobal operations, we encounter
diversity in a variety of forms,and we recognize that in differ-
ent parts of the world, diversity is deﬁned differently. ChevronT exacodeﬁnes diversity in the broadest sense to include attributes such as raceand gender to experience and perso nal style. We belie ve promoting such
diversity and developing a work force that reﬂects the customers weserve, the countries where we operate and the partners we work withare essential for our long- term competitiveness.
In the United States, T exaco settled a signiﬁcant class-action employment
discrimination lawsuit in 1997. The suit, Rober ts, et al. v. Texaco Inc. ,was
brought by 1,400 individuals who were current or former employees ofthe company and alleged that T exaco discriminated against AfricanAmericans in pay, promotions and workplace behavior. The settlementagreement included a payment of US$115 million to the plaintiffs,along with a one-time salary increase of about 11 percent for current
employees in the plaintiff class.
As part of the settlement agreement, an independent ﬁve-year T exaco
Task Force on Equality and Fairness was created. The role of the task
force was to oversee T exaco’s and, after the 2001 merger, ChevronT exaco’s,implementation of a comprehensive human-resources program designed
to help ensure fairness and equal oppo rtunity for employees. When the
task force released its ﬁnal report before disbanding as planned in 2002,it noted, “ChevronT exaco has been a responsive partner and has enthusi-
astically assumed responsibility for the human resources initiatives previ-
ously undertaken by T exaco to promote fairness and equal opportunityfor company employees.”
ChevronT exaco’s approach to diversity reﬂects the knowledge that T exaco
gained as part of the settlement agreement and task force review. Ourvision is to be recognized globally as a leader in diversity, and we are
committed to continual improvement.
Employees Ken Davis and Linda Horton
amidst colleagues in Houston. Policy on Nondiscrimination
ChevronT exaco’s Employment Policy states that in any aspect of
employment, no individual will be discriminated against based onrace,color, religion, gender, national origin, citizenship, age, sexual
orientation, disability, veteran status or other status protected by law.
Approach: Creating an Inclusive Workplace and Diverse Work Force
We use a variety of tools, strategies and approaches to help attract, retain,
develop and support a diverse, wo rld-class work force. ChevronT exaco
also takes steps to provide a working environment free of discrimina-tion or harassment. For example, since the early 1990s, the companyhas required all U.S. employees to take anti-harassment training. Thecompany does not tolerate retaliatio n against employees who exercise
their rights under existing anti-discrimination laws.
ChevronT exaco’s executive-level Human Resources Committee over-
sees corporatewide diversity programs and activities. The company’sGlobal Diversity Manager, who is responsible for the company’s stra-tegic direction, objectives and metrics related to diversity, reports directly
to Chevro nTexac o’s 
CEO .Many ChevronT exaco operating companies
also have their own Diversity Councils that develop programs to fosterdiversity as is applicable in their respective locations. As part of theannual review process, most employees develop and are then assessedagainst a Diversity Action Plan that describes how they will supportdiversity. For members of ChevronT exaco’s executive and managementcommittees, performance against their Diversity Action Plans is a com-
ponent in determining indi vidual compensation.
In the United States, through our Minority Outreach Program, we work
with and contribute to a variety of outside organizations that support
or help attract minorities into the disciplines we hire from. For example,ChevronT exaco partners with the 
INROADS scholarship and internship
program, which helps prepare minority  students for management careers.
As part of our campus recruiting process, we  recruit at several historically
minority colleges and universities as well as through minority organiza-tions at other universities.
ChevronT exaco also supports a nu mber of employee networks and
afﬁnity groups that bring together employees with common goals,interests and backgrounds. The groups focus on mentoring, develop-ment, recruitment, community vol unteerism, cultural awareness and
support for the company’s diversity objectives. Membership in thenetworks has grown to almost 4,000 employees worldwide.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
272002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Case Study > Diversity Mentoring Program
Performance: U.S. Employment and Senior Management Data
In the United States, companies are req uired to submit annual reports
on the composition of their U.S.-based work force to the Equal Employ-ment Opportunity Commission (
EEOC ). See the table below for a
summary of data submitted to the EEOC .
Over the past several years, we have made continued progress in increas-
ing representation of minorities and women in our work force, despite
an environment of minimal hiring and downsizing. ChevronT exacoalso continues to be successful in hiring women and minorities in ﬁelds
where they have been traditionally  underrepresented, such as petroleum
engineering. In the United States, of the 151 college recruits who acceptedChevronT exaco employment offers  in 2002, 46 percent were minorities
and 34 percent were women.
Globally, we are committed to
increasing the representation ofwomen and non-Caucasian
males in senior-level positions inChevronT exaco. At the end of2002, of 317 executive-levelpositions, 16.7 percent were heldby women or non-Caucasian
males. In 2002, ChevronT exacoestablished a diversity objectivefor senior-management posi-tions, including incorporatingthe objective into the incentivebonus plan, and we plan tomonitor and measure our prog-ress against it over time.ChevronTexaco Global Lubricants (CTGL) markets more than 3,500 lubricants
and coolants around the globe and is ranked among the top three globallubricants companies. CTGL believes that its success depends not just onproduct quality, but also on developing a work force that mirrors the globaldiversity of its customers. “Having a diversity of backgrounds and viewsgives us a unique advantage,” says Shariq Yosufzai, president of GlobalMarketing for downstream. “The varied perspectives of our colleagues helpus better anticipate market challenges and forge better solutions. We mustlook and think like our customers.”
An innovative mentoring process helps CTGL cultivate a diverse manage-
ment team. Each of the 15 members of the Global Lubricants LeadershipTeam mentors up to three visibly or globally diverse employees. The goal
is to increase the number of diverse candidates for leadership positions
around the world, while also providing those leaders continued supportto ensure that they, as well as the business, succeed.
% minorities among total employees
% women among total employees
01 0 2 0 3 04
ChevronTexaco’s 2002 U.S. employment data
Chevron and Texaco 1996 U.S. employment data*ChevronTexaco U.S. Employee Data
*Percentages represent the combined data for 
the two legacy companies.% minorities among professionals
% women among professionals% minorities among officials and managers
% women among officials and managersDiversity (Continued)© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Background: Hiring and 
Training Local Employees
In recent yea rs, as part of our
effort to develop a global workforce, we have sought to ﬁll anincreasing number of positionswith employees who are citizens
of countries where we operate,rather than with expatriate
employees. These efforts stemfrom recognition of the businessvalue of having a work force
that reﬂects the markets we serve and the communities where weoperate. Hiring and training local employees are also important waysthat ChevronT exaco contributes to the long-term social and economicdevelopment of the communities wher e we operate. Additionally, some
governments where we operate have speciﬁc requirements regardingwork-force composition.
Approach: Developing a Representative Work Force
We seek to hire and train employees from the countries where we oper-
ate. In particular, we are working to  continually increase the number of
local employees in management and te chnical positions. Many of our
business units have formal programs to recruit and train local employees,in some cases partnering with universities or other institutions in thecommunity to provide training programs. Many also have mentoring or
coaching programs to help support and develop employees.
ChevronT exaco also seeks to provide employees with international
work experience to help them develop the skills and knowledge neces-
sary for the company to compete globally. For example, through ourcorporate Internatio nal Development Program, we provide high-
potential employees with opportunit ies to obtain undergraduate and
advanced degrees and work experience outside their home countries.The program manages approximately 300 employee developmentassignments each year. There are a variety of other such programs atthe business-unit level.
Performance: Demonstrating Success Worldwide
ChevronT exaco does not collect corporatewide data on employees’
country of origin, although many of our business units have set, and
measure performance against, speciﬁc wo rk-force composition objec-
tives. For example:>Angola :ChevronT exaco’s Angolan subsidiary, Cabinda Gulf Oil Co. Ltd.
(CABGOC ), launched an effort to increase the percentage of Angolan
nationals within the company’s work force, particularly at the manage-ment level. New processes being employ ed include annually identifying
the development needs for emplo yees, creating mentoring and training
programs to support and develop Angolan employees, and offering tar-geted development assignments to high-potential nationals. The effort
already has brought results. In 2002, 85 percent of
CABGOC ’s total work
force was Angolan. At the professional and supervisor level, 64 percent
of the positions were held by Angolans, up from 53 percent in 2001. Bythe end of 2006,
CABGOC ’s goal is to nationalize 80 percent of its pro-
fessional and supervisory staff.
>Latin America :ChevronT exaco’s Latin America Business Unit ( LABU )
also has developed a program to  increase the number of nationals
within its work force. In 2002, almost 90 percent of the work force was
made up of nationals, up from 85 percent in 2001. While the LABU has
made progress nationalizing its overall work force, it plans to focus spe-
ciﬁc attention on nationalization at senior levels. By the end of 2004, its
goal is to increase the number of nationals in management positions by
10 percent. The LABU also has a goal to increase the number of nation-
als on assignments outside their ho me countries by 10 percent.
>Kazakhstan :T e n g izchevroil ( TCO ), ChevronT exaco’s joint venture in
Kazakhstan, employs about 3,500 peo ple. In 1993, about 55 percent
of the jobs were held by Kazakh citizens. Since that time, TCO has
engaged in a variety of efforts to increase the number of nationals inits work force. For example,
TCO developed partnerships with local
universities to set up technical training programs to help build theskills of the local work force. As a result, by 2002 the percentage ofjobs held by Kazakh citizens had increased to more than 77 percent.
>Saudi Arabia :More than 90 percent of Saudi Arabian T exaco’s (
SAT)
nearly 700 employees are Saudi nationals. SAT has implemented a
variety of strategies aimed at increasing the number of jobs held bySaudi nationals, including providing resources, education, trainingand development opportunities to national employees at all levels.
SAT’s employee development progr ams focus on job performance
competencies and leadership skills. In recognition of these national-
ization programs, in 2003 SAT received the First Class Award of the
Prince Nayef National Awards.
28Global Work Force Development2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues 2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
A computer class at Mina Saud,
where Saudi Arabian Texaco operatesa storage and marine export facility.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
292002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Building Capabilities
Developing and nurturing employee talent is important for our long-
term success. ChevronT exaco seeks to take an integrated and disciplined
approach to providing employe es with training and other opportunities
to help them develop the skills, knowledge and experience necessary to
continue to expand their capabilities and contribute to the success of
the company.
Managers identify the skills
required to achieve company
goals, assess employee talent,identify skill gaps and createdevelopment plans for talentedindividuals. At company sitesaround the world and online,we offer training courses rangingfrom compliance and technicaltraining to cross-cultural and
career-planning courses. Individual operating companies sponsor addi-tional training, often in partnership with schools and other institutions.
Developing Leaders
Recognizing the importance of effective leaders, ChevronT exaco also
has designed programs speciﬁcally aimed at developing managers.For example:
>The ChevronT exaco Leadership Forum (
CTLF ), one of our most
successful leadership development programs, is aimed at high-potential managers.
CTLF seeks to increase participants’ knowledge
of ChevronT exaco’s overall strategies and objectives and provide aforum for information sharing and networking.
>The ChevronT exaco Advanced Management Program is a three-week
course that includes an on-site de velopment assignment within
ChevronT exaco’s operations. In 2002, some 48 managers completedthe program.
>A new supervisor program is provided for ﬁrst-time managers, and
669 employees completed the course in 2002.Wages & Beneﬁts
In Lafayette, Louisana, ChevronTexaco
employees attend a technical train-ing course.Attracting, Retaining and Motivating Employees
ChevronT exaco seeks to offer a competitively based total remuneration
package designed to attract, re tain and motivate a highly competent,
global work force. We provide comp ensation and beneﬁt programs that
are locally competitive and tied to the performance of the individual,
his or her business unit and the company. The company’s goal is tomaintain equitable salaries based on job responsibilities and perform-
ance. In 2002, ChevronT exaco’s total global payroll was approximatelyUS$2.9 billion.
Linking Pay and Performance
Our Performance Management Proces s is the foundation of our compen-
sation practices. The process req uires the annual evaluation of employees
not covered by union contracts and may result in merit pay increases forthose employees. Many business units have rewards and recognition pro-grams that provide cash and noncash awards for exceptional performance
on speciﬁc projects.
One element of the overall pay and beneﬁts program is variable pay,
which can provide cash payouts that are in addition to base pay andare based on a variety of metrics, including the company’s performanceand, for many employees, environment, health or safety measures. Theavailability of such Success Sharing programs and how they are struc-
tured varies across locations and depends on a variety of factors, suchas local customs, regulations and the speci ﬁc competitive compensation
environment. The ChevronT exaco Management Incentive Plan annu-ally pays a cash award for perfor mance to senior-level managers. The
ChevronT exaco Long-T erm Incentive Plan, which rewards leaders forachieving company goals and creating st ockholder value, is designed to
align management interests with stoc kholders’ interests over a multi-
year time horizon.Training & Development© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
302002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Social Issues
Maintaining a Productive Workplace
ChevronT exaco strives to maintain a productive work environment
where employees are treated with dignity and respect, which providesindividuals with recognition and op portunities for growth and which
fosters collaboratio n and open communication among co-workers and
between employees and their managers.
Ifdisputes or interpersonal conﬂicts arise, employees can use the com-
pany’s dispute resolution programs, w hich are designed to offer a safe,
fast and fair way to resolve disputes. Through our ombudspersonprogram, employees can contact a ChevronT exaco ombudsperson, who is responsible for providing neutr al, conﬁdential help and problem-
solving techniques. ChevronT exaco’s ombudspersons adhere to the Stand-
ards of Practice and Code of Ethics of The Ombudsman Association.
Employees also can access the company’s Steps to Employee ProblemSolution program. The program, developed by a team of employees, isdesigned to offer a safe, fast and fair way to resolve disputes early andin a neutral setting.
The company also provides a 24-hour ChevronT exaco hotline that can
serve as a problem-solving resource  or mechanism for employees to
report issues or concerns. The hotline is accessible to all employees;
individuals not ﬂuent in English can use the hotline’s translation serv-ice. All calls are conﬁdential, and employees can choose to make theircalls anonymously. Issues raised on the hotline are forwarded to theappropriate individuals within the company for resolution.Employee Dispute Resolution© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Sales & Other Operating Revenues
Sales and other operating revenues
were $99 billion in 2002, downfrom $104 billion in 2001 and$117 billion in 2000. Revenuesfrom worldwide upstream opera-tions decreased about 30 percenton lower prices for natural gas,particularly in the United States.Sales volumes of natural gas werealso down in the United States.Partially offsetting these declines,
sales revenues from reﬁned prod-ucts increased in 2002, primarilyon higher prices late in the year.Of the $98.7 billion of sales rev-enues in 2002, sales in the United States accounted for $43.6 billion.The only other country where the company generates signiﬁcant rev-enues is the United Kingdom, where it ge nerated $10.8 billion in 2002.
312002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Economic Issues
Linking Financial Performance
and Corporate Responsibility
As a commercial enterprise,we are
responsible for effectively manag-
ing our operations so we can pro-vide appr opriate returns to our
stockholders over time. We viewﬁnancial performance and corpo-rate responsibility as mutually
reinforcing: Financial health is 
a prerequisite to our being able tomake a positive contribution to
society, and operating in a socially and environme ntally responsible way
contributes to our ﬁnancial success.
In our corporate Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion and our stockholders, we share information about the ﬁnancial per-
formance of our company. But we understand that ChevronT exaco – like allcompanies – also has economic impacts that are not captured in traditional
financial reporting and that go beyond the boundaries of an organization.These impacts include how our operations contribute to or affect the larger
economies we operate in, at local, national and global levels. For example,
in 2002 ChevronT exaco’s total tax liability in the countries where we oper-ate was US$19.7 billion. These impacts also include how we affect theeconomic conditions, capacity and s ufﬁciency of the range of stakeholders
affected by our business, including e mployees, suppliers, business partners,
host governments and those living in the communities we operate in.
About This Section
Although there are standard procedures for companies to measure andreport on ﬁnancial performance, there are not yet generally accepted
measures for reporting on their broader economic impacts. Companies
are experimenting with a variety of indicators in this area – includingwages and beneﬁts paid to employees, i nvestment in work-force train-
ing and development, taxes paid to go vernments and money spent with
supplier companies – to help them assess their economic impacts.
In this section, we provide sever al key indicators of our ﬁnancial perform-
ance, as well as select information about our broader economic impacts.
We have chosen to focus on the issue of procurement and, in particular,
our efforts to contribute to econ omic development through our supplier
diversity, small business and local content programs.
We also are working to better understand our broader economic impacts
and identify additional measurements that provide information of value
to us and our stakeholders.Introduction to Economic Issues Section
The Richmond Reﬁnery in California
moves some 340,000 barrels of rawmaterial and ﬁnished product dailyacross its dock.
The following highlights selected indicators of our ﬁnancial performance.
Please refer to our 2002 Annual Report  for more detailed information.Financial Performance Data
Net Income
Weak global economies, restrained
demand for petroleum productsand lower production all took atoll on 2002 earnings. For the
year, ChevronTexa co reported
net income of $1.1 billion, com-pared with $3.3 billion in 2001.The company’s ﬁnancial resultswere hurt by $3.3 billion ofcharges from special items. About$2.3 billion of these charges wererelated to our 26 percent owner-
ship of Dynegy Inc., an energytrading company that saw a dra-matic decline in its market valuedue to the near collapse of theenergy merchant sector.
08
6
42
99 98 00 01 02$1.13Net Income
Billions of $U.S.
Net income for 2002 and 2001 included  
more than 3 billion $U.S. of special-item charges in each year. The decline in 2002 mainly reflected exceptionally weak refined-product margins, lower U.S. 
natural gas prices and lower oil-equiva-lent production worldwide.
0120
100
8060
40
20
99 98 00 01 02$98.7Sales & Other 
Operating Revenues
Billions of $U.S.
Sales and other operating revenues declined 
5 percent on lower U.S. natural gas prices and worldwide oil-equivalent production. 32Financial Performance Data (Continued)2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Economic Issues
© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
322002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report
Capital & Exploratory Expenditures
Capital and exploratory expendi-
tures for 2002 totaled $9.3 billion,including the company’s $1.4 bil-lion share of afﬁliates’ expendi-tures, which did not require cashoutlays by the company. Interna-tional exploration and produc-tion spending of $4.4 billion was70 percent of worldwide explora-tion and production expendituresin 2002, compared with 66 per-cent in 2001 and 62 percent in
2000, reﬂecting the company’scontinuing focus on interna-
tional exploration and produc-tion activities.
Return on Average Capital Employed
Return on average capital
employed declined to 3.2 percentprimarily as a result of lower earn-ings. The company’s ﬁnancialresults were hurt by weak global
economies and special chargesto effect the merger and charges
related to the write-down of an
equity afﬁliate that saw a dra-matic decline in its market valuedue to the near collapse of theenergy merchant sector.Cash Dividends Paid
The company paid its stockholdersnearly three billion dollars in 2002,increasing its annual dividend pay-out for the 15th consecutive year.
012
10
86
4
2
99 98 00 01 02$9.26Capital & Exploratory  
Expenditures*  
Billions of $U.S.
Capital and exploratory expenditures in 
2002 declined from a level in 2001 that 
included significant additional investments in the Dynegy and Tengizchevroil affiliates.Exploration & Production
Refining, Marketing 
& Transportation
Chemicals & Other
*Includes equity in affiliates
020
16
12
8
4
99 98 00 01 023.2Return On Average  
Capital Employed 
Percentage
Return on average capital employed 
declined to 3.2 percent as a result of lower earnings.0.003.00
2.502.00
1.50
1.00
0.50
99 98 00 01 02$2.80Cash Dividends Paid
$U.S. per share
Sales and other operating revenues declined 
5 percent on lower U.S. natural gas prices and worldwide oil-equivalent production. © 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
332002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Economic Issues
Helping Build Local Economies Worldwide
In addition to our efforts in the United States, we have “local content”
programs to source from small, locally owned businesses in the commu-nities we operate in around theworld. These programs are man-
aged at the business unit level.
In addition to buying goods and
services from local suppliers,many ChevronT exaco businessunits offer business planning,skills training and technologytransfer programs, and they pro-vide ﬁnancing – including
micro-loans – to help suppliercompanies develop and expand.
We believe our local content
efforts are among the most signiﬁcant and sustainable ways we cancontribute to the economic and social development of our host
communities.
Highlights of recent local content efforts include:
>Nigeria :Since 1999, Chevron Nigeria Ltd. (
CNL ) and the Nigerian
National Petroleum Corporation have had a formal local content devel-
opment policy promoting the use of qualiﬁed indigenous contractorsand suppliers.
CNL has a dedicated Local Content Development Unit
to identify and supp ort local supplier companies, including organizing
Local Content fairs to increase awar eness and create opportunities for
Nigerian companies. In 1997, some 25 percent of company contracts
for goods and materials were with Nigerian ﬁrms. By 2002, that ﬁgurehad grown substantially, to 90 perce nt of contracts, representing 35 per-
cent of
CNL ’s total spending for materials and serv ices going to Nigerian
indigenous and joint-venture companies.
>Angola :ChevronT exaco’s subsidiary, Cabinda Gulf Oil Co. Ltd., has
had dramatic success developing local Angolan businesses. The com-pany has created a team dedicated to local business development,which includes supporting start-up businesses in everything fromclothing manufacture to ﬁsh meal processing. In 2002, the companyspent more than US$230 million with local suppliers, exceeding its
local content goal by more than 275 percent. In total, 268 Angolan-owned businesses supplied materials and services to ChevronT exaco’s
Angola afﬁliate in 2002.Contributing to Local Economic Development
To conduct our operations, we purchase a wide variety of goods and
services from external contractors and suppliers. In 2002, ChevronT exacospent approximately US$18 to $20 bil lion globally on such goods 
and services.
We strive to ensure our supplier base is reﬂective of our customers,
host communities and the markets we serve. We also believe sourcingfrom diverse, small and locally owned companies makes signiﬁcantcontributions to local economic and human capacity development,
and these efforts are part of our commitment to be a valuable memberof the communities we operate in. Th erefore, as much as possible and
practical, ChevronT exaco seeks to co ntract with small, locally owned
businesses and, in the United States, also from minority- and women-owned businesses.
Supporting Supplier Diversity in the United States
In the United States, ChevronT exaco’s Small Business/Supplier Diversity
Program works to provide opportunit ies, contracts and outreach assistance
to small and minority- and women-owned businesses. The program has
won numer ous awards, includ-
ing induction into the Women’s
Business Enterprise NationalCouncil’s “Elite 8” in 2003. We
are committed to monitoring andreporting our progress toward
achieving our small business/supplier diversity goals, and wework to contin ually improve our
performance in this area.
Reﬂecting our commitment to
U.S. supplier diversity, over the last
six years, we have spent approxi-mately US$8.6 billion with smallwomen- and minority-owned
business enterprises. In 2002,we met our goal of spending 
25 percent of total goods and se rvices spend with small businesses,
spending more than US$1.3 billion with small business suppliers in the
United States. We spent appro ximately US$212 million with women-
owned suppliers and nearly US$209 million with minority-owned
suppliers, although we fell short of our 5 percent contracting goal for
each of those groups, reaching just under 4 percent for each.97
Small business
Women-owned business enterprise
Minority-owned business enterprise1,400
1,200
1,000
800600
400
200
0
98 99 00 01 02U.S. Small Business/Supplier
Diversity Expenditure*
Millions of $U.S.
*1997 –2001 data are combined 
Chevron and Texaco. 2002 data are ChevronTexaco.Supplier Diversity & Small Business Development
Gibson Ola, manager of local business
development for ChevronTexaco’sNigeria operation, says the company’srole in support of local content is
aligned with the goals of the country.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
342002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Economic Issues
Supplier Diversity & Small Business Development (Continued)
>Venezuela :In the company’s Hamaca joint venture in Venezuela,
ChevronT exaco spent 62 percent of its procurement funds with localsuppliers by the end of 2002, exceeding the government’s local contentgoal of 60 percent.
>Kazakhstan :C h e v r o n T e x a c o ’ s  joint venture T engizchevroil (
TCO )
met its 37 percent local content goal in 2002.
>South Africa :Caltex Oil ( S.A.) established a task force to support the
South African government’s Black Economic Empowerment ( BEE)
program. As part of the company’s BEE efforts, Caltex gives preferen-
tial treatment to Historically D isadvantaged South Africans; provides
support and training to small, medium and micro enterprises; andsupports companies that actively pr omote development and skills
transfer for their employees. The company increased the total amountit spent on suppliers through the 
BEE program from 5 percent in
2001 to 23 percent at the end of 2002. For 2003, Caltex Oil ( S.A.) has
a goal to increase BEE purchasing spend to more than 25 percent of
total spend on goods and services.Although the SBD loans play a relatively small part in helping TCO achieve
its aggressive targets for buying from Kazakh providers, they are an impor-tant part of TCO’s community economic development commitment. In 2002,TCO met its 37 percent local-content goal, spending more than US$415 mil-lion on Kazakh goods and services. TCO is on target to meet its 2004 goalof 39 percent local content.
Here are some success stories behind the SBD loans:> 
Kazcomservice : The SBD group’s initial loan of US$350,000 in 1999,
followed by US$400,000 the following year, turned this four-persontelecommunications cabling company into one of TCO’s leading general-purpose contractors. Kazcomservice now employs more than 900 peoplein four locations around the country.
> 
AutoStroyService : To compete for TCO road repair work, AutoStroyService
needed funding to upgrade its machinery. SBD’s loan of US$150,000 pro-vided the necessary equipment upgrades. The resulting increase in Auto-StroyService’s business allowed the company to repay the 36-month loanin less than 12 months.
> 
Olzha Co .: Olzha, a TCO primary contractor providing rail cars, mainte-
nance and other transportation services, wanted to help develop a marketfor naturalgas-powered vehicles in Atyrau, Kazakhstan. The companyreceived an initial US$300,000 loan from the SBD group. Olzha’s plan,
which includes a liqueﬁed petroleum gas ﬁlling station and ofﬂoadingrack, could provide healthy competition for the local monopoly. If Olzha
meets speciﬁc mutually agreed-upon goals, it could receive anotherUS$300,000 loan from the SBD group to further develop the business.
At ChevronTexaco’s joint venture in Kazakhstan, Tengizchevroil (TCO), theSmall Business Development (SBD) group is working to help develop andsupport small, locally owned companies in the country.
The SBD group was formed in 1997 and initially focused on funding com-
munity organizations or enterprises with social missions. In 2001, thegroup refocused its efforts to speciﬁcally target small businesses thatcould provide goods and services to TCO, although it still provides somecommunity-beneﬁt loans. Loans provided by the SBD group range in sizefrom US$5,000 to US$750,000. Since it was formed, the SBD group hasmade 143 interest-free loans totaling nearly US$5.5 million and hashelped create more than 1,000 jobs.
Beyond simply providing the loans, the SBD group’s four-person staff takes
a hands-on role in working with loan recipients by providing technical orbusiness assistance as appropriate, ensuring timely payments, and helpingidentify and address any problems the companies encounter. The SBDgroup’s goal is to see that the businesses it helps develop are successfuland become self-sustaining.Case Study > Developing Small Business  
in Kazakhstan© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.ChevronTexaco’s management of the
Barrow Island oil ﬁeld off WesternAustralia is widely recognized as anindustry benchmark for the coexis-tence of petroleum development andbiodiversity protection. The island, a Class A Nature Reserve, supports
14 terrestrial mammal species, 54
terrestrial reptile species and morethan 1 10 bird species – some ofwhich are extinct on Australia’smainland but thrive on Barrow. 
Since the beginning of operations in
1964, Barrow Island has seen more than 621 miles (1,000 km) of seismic
surveys, nearly 900 wells drilled and production of almost 300 million bar-rels of oil. Yet the island’s full suite of native species has been kept intact,
and through a strict quarantine program, ChevronTexaco has helped pre-vent the introduction and spread of invasive plants and animals that hasproved disastrous for the indigenous species of so many other islands.
Now, as part of the Gorgon Venture, ChevronTexaco and its partners have
proposed developing natural gas from the offshore Gorgon Field, one ofthe largest single gas ﬁelds ever discovered in Australia. Operated byChevronTexaco, the project would transport the gas 43 miles southeast toBarrow, where it would be processed into liquid products and domestic gas.Liquids would be shipped to customers in the Asia-Paciﬁc region, while gaswould be piped 50 miles (81 km) to the mainland. Total land disturbance
352002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Striving for Environmental Excellence
Protecting people and the envi-
ronment is a fundamental part of
The ChevronTexaco Way .Respon-
sible environmental stewardshipof all aspects of our operations
and our products is not only anexpression of our values but alsoa business imperative.
We understand and share the
concerns many people have
about the potential environmental ef fects associated with the develop-
ment and consumption of energy. These concerns range from effectson air or water quality to community health in a particular location to the ways our industry and the use of our products can contribute 
to global climate change.
Our goal is to be recognized and admired for environmental excellence. We
are proud of the ways we are progressing toward that goal, such as mak-ing sustained improvements in our energy efﬁciency. We also are commit-ted to further integrating envi ronmental considerations into our business
decisions and enhancing how we manag e and measure our environmen-
tal performance. We are committed to  continually improving our proc-
esses for minimizing pollution and waste, conserving natural resources,responsibly stewarding our products, and enhancing our broader under-
standing and management of the environmental aspects of our businesses.
ChevronT exaco’s Health, Environment and Safety Policy provides the
framework for our approach to  environmental issues. Our Operational
Excellence Management System (
OEMS ) provides speciﬁc corporatewide
expectations for enviro nmental performance and processes.
Focusing on Conservation and Efﬁciency
At the heart of our approach to environmental responsibility are conser-
vation and efﬁciency, two concepts that we believe offer tremendouspromise for minimizing the environmental footprint of our companyand ind ustry. The principles of conservation and efﬁciency are integrated
across our operations, from explorati on and production to distribution
and disposal. We seek to maximize the recovery of oil from a given reser-voir, strive to continually improve our efﬁciency by getting more output
from each unit of energy we use, look for ways to limit our use of andimpacts on natural resources, and encourage consumers to use our prod-ucts more efﬁciently. In doing so, we contribute to meeting the world’s
demand for energy while minimizing our total environmental footprint.About this Section: Working to Measure Performance 
The environmental section of this report provides an overview of howwe are addressing a range of environmental issues across our operations.The issues addressed reﬂect our views on the most signiﬁcant environmen-tal issues facing our company today. We have included corporatewideperformance data where available, although in many cases we provideinformation on a country, ope rating company, business unit or facility
level. Where we mention a perfor mance or process requirement for our
business units, we typically are referring to a speciﬁc expectation con-
tained in our Operational Excellence Management System.
Fishermen from nearby villages cast
their nets just offshore Chevron NigeriaLtd.’s oil and gas processing facility.
Case Study > Environmental Protection 
on Barrow IslandIntroduction to Environmental Issues Section
On Australia’s Barrow Island, 227
native plants, 54 reptiles and 1 10types of birds thrive alongsideChevronTexaco oil ﬁeld operations.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.taxes and royalties. Annually, gross domestic product (GDP) would be
increased by $2 billion and projected exports by $1.2 billion. 
With government and environmental approvals, construction on the
Gorgon project could begin in 2005.for the gas processing facilities and associated infrastructure would be nomore than 740 acres (300 hectares). The combined area used on the islandfor oil operations and gas processing would remain at less than 5 percentof the island.
At the request of the Western Australian government, Gorgon Venture part-
ners completed a comprehensive Environmental, Social and Economic (ESE)
Review of the project. The govern-
ment speciﬁed that the ESE Reviewmust demonstrate that the proposedGorgon gas development could gen-erate social and economic beneﬁts,maintain the conservation values ofthe island as well as demonstratenet conservation beneﬁts. This isthe ﬁrst resource development pro-posal subjected to such a comprehe-nsive sustainability review processin Western Australia.
The project’s potential ecological impacts have been assessed by independ-
ent, specialized ecologists. Their work shows that the proposed develop-ment would not result in signiﬁcant adverse impacts to important wildlifehabitats, restricted vegetation types or marine areas with unique conserva-tion signiﬁcance. A key element of environmental management is buildingon the existing robust quarantine procedures.
Although the development of Gorgon gas would bring substantial beneﬁts,
the gas ﬁeld does present some unique challenges. Gorgon gas containsa relatively high content of carbon dioxide ( CO
2), which results in sub-
stantial treatment cost and potentially relatively large greenhouse gasemissions. Barrow Island provides a unique opportunity to reinject CO
2
into saline reservoirs deep beneath the island. Reinjection, combined with
current best practice in plant design, would make the development one ofthe most greenhouse gas-efﬁcient projects of its type in the world.
In addition to using environmental best practices, the project also
would provide signiﬁcant economic beneﬁts. We expect the develop-
ment to provide some 6,000 jobs, directly and indirectly, throughoutAustralia, of which 1,700 jobs would be in Western Australia. Over thelife of the project, we estimate there would be approximately US$6.5billion in new investment and $10 billion in state and commonwealthCase Study > Environmental Protection 
(Continued) on Barrow Island
362002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
ChevronTexaco works to ensure
that native animals, such as thisperentie lizard, coexist with oilﬁeld operations.
For nearly two decades, ChevronTexaco has underwritten the 49-year-old
Conservation Awards Program, the oldest such privately sponsored programin North America. The program honors individuals and organizations fortheir outstanding contributions to the conservation of natural resources.Over the history of the program, the awards’ 1,000-plus recipients havehelped protect wildlife, create natural preserves, establish parks andlaunch educational programs to heighten environmental awareness.
In 2002, ChevronTexaco Conservation Awards were given for, among
other things, establishing an environmental radio show, setting up a civicbeautiﬁcation organization and producing educational habitat ﬁlms forschoolchildren.Case Study > Conservation Awards Program37Energy Efﬁciency2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Background: Focusing on Efﬁciency and Conservation
In addition to being an energy pr ovider, ChevronT exaco is also an
energy consumer. Like all companies, we use energy to run our opera-
tions and transport our products. Ene rgy efﬁciency and conservation –
on the part of ChevronT exaco, other companies and society as a whole– is essential for ensuring future access to energy at reasonable costs.Improving the energy efﬁciency of our operations is also one of our key
strategies for managing our greenhouse gas emissions. Our focus onenergy efﬁciency applies to all asp ects of our business, from extracting
oil to managing our ofﬁce buildings.
Approach: Tracking the Efﬁciency of All Operations
To track our performance, in 1991 we established an energy usage
index, now called the ChevronT exaco Energy Index (CTEI). The indexmeasures and represents in a single ﬁgure the energy required to pro-duce our products today compared with the energy that would havebeen required to produce the same products in the base year. Our oper-ations are included in the index by  multiplying an output measure
closely related to energy consumption – such as cargo ton-miles for ourshipping company or square foot of building space managed for ourreal estate company – by a unit energy consumption factor from the
base period.
Each percentage point reduction in the CTEI represents approximately
10 million gigajoules (GJ) less energy consumed, and it also equalsapproximately US$35 million in savings for the company based onworldwide energy usage and costs in 2003 (Note: These numbers can-
not be used to analyze past years’ pe rformance due to changes in busi-
nesses and activities that make up the index). In the past, CTEI coveredonly ChevronT exaco’s North American operations. But in 2002 theindex was expanded to cover our international operating companies,
and by the end of 2003, it will cover all assets we operate worldwide.
We employ a full-time Corporate Energy Coordinator responsible for
overseeing the company’s energy measurement efforts, as well as leading
Best Practice Energy T eams to expand our knowledge and practices forcontinually improving our energy efﬁciency.
We also work with others to help them improve their energy efﬁciency.
Through Chevron Energy Solutions, a subsidiary of ChevronT exaco, wedesign, arrange for third-party ﬁnancing and construct energy efﬁciencymeasures and cogeneration facilities for commercial, industrial and pub-
lic sector customers.Performance: Striving 
for the Highest Efﬁciency
ChevronT exaco’s total energy
consumption for the assets we
operate was 825 trillion BTUsor 782 million GJ in 2002.Rather than total use data,however, the primary per-formance indicator we useinternally is theChevronT exaco Energy Index.The index allows us to meas-
ure the energy efﬁciency of our operating companies on a commonbasis and assess trends in efﬁciency imp rovements, rather than energy
use alone.
In 2001 and 2002, our operations reached their most efﬁcient level since
the inception of our Energy Index. We steadily have improved ourenergy efﬁciency over the last decade, and in some businesses we havemade dramatic progress. For example, since 1991, Chevron’s NorthAmerican Products business units have reduced their energy consump-tion index by 21 percent. This represents a nearly 2 point-per-year aver-age improvement, compared with a 1 point-per-year average for theU.S. reﬁning industry as a whole over that time period.
Future Goals: Aiming for Continual Improvement
Our goal is to continue to improve our corporatewide energy efﬁciency
in the future. In 2004, we will work to better manage the factors thatinﬂuence energy efﬁciency in the business units we have recently addedto our index. ChevronT exaco’s North American reﬁning operations also
have joined with other American Petroleum Institute member reﬁningcompanies in committing to an industrywide 10 percent improvement
in energy efﬁciency between 2002 and 2012.92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02ChevronTexaco Energy Index 
1992 –2002
020406080100© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
382002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Climate Change
Background: Addressing a Shared Concern
One of the environmental concerns we all share is global climate
change. We recognize that the use of fossil fuels has contributed to anincrease in greenhouse gases – mainly carbon dioxide and methane –in the earth’s atmosphere.
One of the most critical environmental challenges facing the world today
is ﬁnding ways to provide and use reliable, affordable energy while reduc-ing long-term growth in greenhouse g as emissions. T echnology offers a
variety of potential solutions, including efﬁciency improvements,
CO 2
capture and storage, use of biological sinks and the development of
commercially viable nonfossil fuel en ergy systems, including the poten-
tial evolution of a hydrogen fuel-based economy.
Approach: Implementing a Four-Pronged Strategy
ChevronT exaco recognizes and shares the concerns that governmentsand the public have about climate change. We have developed a com-prehensive program to manage greenhouse gas emissions, and it isbeing integrated into our business decisions. For example, since 2001we have required our businesses to integrate greenhouse gas emissions
analysis into the planning for all major capital projects.
ChevronT exaco believes that although fossil fuels are a ﬁnite resource,
they will continue to meet the vast majority of global energy demandfor at least the next 30 years. Energy from renewable resources, such aswind and solar, is expected to contribute a small but growing fraction
to total energy sources. We invest in a variety of renewable and alter-
native energy technologies and believe that those energy sources willbe important in the overall mix of energy for the global economy in
the future. But widespread applicatio n will depend on many factors,
including the rate of technological development, market acceptanceand demonstration of economic viability.
In addressing climate change, ChevronT exaco works closely with gov-
ernments, academic institutions, no ngovernmental organizations and
others to create environmentally, technically and economically soundsolutions. As a company with global op erations, we are respectful of the
decisions made by the countries where we operate regarding the KyotoProtocol. Our businesses work closely with each country’s government
to manage greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and to help
our business partners and customers achieve their emissions goals.ChevronTexaco’s climate change strategy 
consists of the following four-pronged approach: 1
Reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and increasing energy
efﬁciency: Our goal is to reduce emissions per unit output from
operations. We inventory our emissions and use innovative tech-nologies to continually improve the energy efﬁciency of our existingoperations, new projects and produc ts. We are incorporating green-
house gas emission assessments into our capital project evaluations.
The following are examples of where we have improved existing
processes or de ployed new technologies that have resulted in reduced
greenhouse gas and other emissions:
>In Indonesia, we switched from crude oil to natural gas for ﬁring the
steam generators in the Duri Field in 1999 –2000, reducing emissions
of carbon dioxide by more than 1 million metric tons per year.
>In Kuwait’s Wafra oil ﬁeld and California’s Kern River oil ﬁeld, we
switched to natural gas to generate electricity and steam. These movesalso reduced carbon dioxide emissions by more than 1 million metric
tons per year.
>We have a number of projects under way that will signiﬁcantly reduce
routine ﬂaring of gas in our inter national upstream operations.
>In the United States, ChevronT exaco participates in cogeneration
projects that, together, produce e nough electricity to power more
than 1 million homes. For example, tw o cogeneration facilities in
Kern County, California, with their high generating efﬁciencies as
compared with conventional gas-ﬁred simple-cycle power plants,
provide 600 megawatts of electr icity while emitting substantially
less carbon dioxide.
>ChevronT exaco participates in the United States Environmental
Protection Ag ency’s (
EPA) Natural Gas Star Program to reduce
methane emissions. In 2003, the EPA awarded ChevronT exaco a
Certiﬁcate of Achievement for its continuing accomplishments,
citing the company for “aggressively reducing methane emissionsand helping lead the way to reducing climate change impacts.” OurU.S. upstream operating company removed a volume of emissions
equivalent to planting more than 1.9 million acres of trees or takingmore than 1.4 million cars off U.S. highways for one year. As separatecompanies, Chevron and T exaco were members of the upstream Star
program since its inception in 1995. Both companies previously wererecognized as “partners of the year.”© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
392002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
2Investing in research, development and improved technology: We
invest in research to improve understanding of global climate changeissues, identify mitigatio n strategies and improve the cost-effectiveness
of mitigation technology. We develo p and apply cost-effective tech-
nologies that reduce the carbon emissions of producing, deliveringand consuming our products. For example:
>ChevronT exaco, along with several other companies and U.S. gov-
ernment agencies, co-funds the work of the Massachusetts Instituteof T echnology Joint Program on the Science and Policy for GlobalClimate Change.
>ChevronT exaco is a member of or supports a variety of
CO 2capture
and geologic storage initiatives designed to develop these promisingtechnologies. Examples include:
– Global 
CO 2Capture Project;
– GEOSEQ geologic sequestration project, a joint venture between
three U.S. National Laboratories;
– GEODISC ,which is run by the Australian Petroleum Cooperative
Research Centre to study long-term CO 2storage;
– the Weyburn Project, a Canadian government-industry initiative
also focusing on geologic sequestration.
We also have gained operational experience with CO 2capture and stor-
age. For example, we have been reinjecting CO 2at the Rangely,
Colorado, ﬁeld since 1986 for the purpose of enhanced oil recovery.
Since that time, we estimate more than 19 million metric tons of CO 2
have been stored.3Pursuing business opportunities in promising, innovative energy
technologies: Our research and business units are evaluating and
investing in advanced energy technologies that have the potential ofbeing commercially viable and beneﬁcial to the environment.
4Supporting ﬂexible and economically sound policies and mecha-
nisms that protect the environment: We respect the varied views of
partner nations on this complex issue. We assist in government policydevelopment and decision-making on energy issues and participate
constructively in dialogue with a broad range of stakeholders on cli-
mate change issues. We support the development and use of interna-
tional mechanisms such as emissio ns trading, Clean Development
Mechanism and Joint Implementation, w hich provide ﬂexible, mar-
ket-based, economically sound means to reduce emissions.
ChevronT exaco has established an internal Climate Change Steering
Council consisting of senior managers from our business units, as well as
technology experts. The Steering Council oversees the deployment of
ChevronT exaco’s climate change st rategy,coordinating information and
best-practice sharing, and reviewing and revising the strategy. TheSteering Council also has formed several project teams to develop rec-ommendations on speciﬁc issues related to climate change, such as emis-
sions trading and management of greenhouse gases in capital projects.Climate Change (Continued)© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Performance: Conducting the First 
Emissions Inventory as a New Company
In 2002, we implemented our SANGEA ™ Energy and Emissions
Estimating System to compile our ﬁrst corporatewide greenhouse gasemissions inventory. For 2002, our total ne t emissions were approximately
60 million metric tons of
CO2
equivalents for all businesses andoperations we have ﬁnancialinterests in, based on its equityshare in those businesses andoperations. These emissions areroughly equal to the total green-
house gas emissions from thecountries of Austria or
Singapore. Eighty-seven percentof our emissions are 
CO 2 and 13
percent are methane, with traceamounts of nitrous oxide.
We recognize that in addition 
to the greenhouse gas emissions
generated by our operations,the use of our products as fuelcontribu tes to worl dwide green-
house gas emissions. According
to the Coalition for Environmen-
tally Responsible Economies(
CERES ), a U.S.-based environ-
mental organization, our oil and gas production in 2002 wasthe source of 415.2 million tonsof end-use 
CO 2emissions by
our customers, equal to approx-imately 1.7 percent of globalemissions from fossil fuels.
402002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Climate Change (Continued)
2002 Greenhouse Gas Emissions *
Millions of metric tons CO 2 equivalent
0102030405060
34.4
23.5
2.3
*These numbers do not include Dynegy Inc. 
or Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LP 
emissions. ChevronTexaco’s net equity share of Chevron Phillips’ emissions for 2002 is estimated to be 3.4 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents.
**Other  includes the greenhouse gas emissions 
of ChevronTexaco ’s shipping, power and 
gasification, and coal businesses as well  as administrative and corporate services.Upstream
DownstreamOther**
Flaring 
& Venting26%Other*
18%
Combustion
56%2002 Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Millions of metric tons CO 2 equivalent
*Other includes acid gas removal, coke combustion, 
crude oil transport, crude oil storage, flashing, fugitives, glycol dehydrators, indirect emissions and sulfur recovery.Future Goals: Setting Emissions Targets
Beginning in 2003, ChevronT exaco will develop a consistent internal
metric for tracking greenhouse gas emissions on a pe r-unit-of-output
basis and will make preliminary emission forecasts. We will establishemissions goals across our company in 2004. These goals will apply to our upstream, downstream and po wer and gasiﬁcat ion operating
companies and, where possible, joint ventures and partially owned
subsidiaries. Also beginning in 2003, we will initiate an independentthird-party review of our emissions management system, leading toan audited greenhouse gas emissions inventory that will ensure a strongfoundation for our emissions management program.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.In 2002, ChevronTexaco implemented a new software program it developed
to help it more easily and accurately estimate and manage energy use andgreenhouse gas emissions at its facilities worldwide. This program wasdeveloped over several years to help our businesses estimate their emis-sions based on standard methods compiled by the American PetroleumInstitute. Our goal was to provide an easy-to-use tool for estimating emis-sions based on the latest methodologies available. In an effort to take aleadership role in promoting industry standardization of comparable, con-sistent greenhouse gas emissions data, we have released the softwarewithout charge to the worldwide energy industry. 
The software, called SANGEA™ Energy and Emissions Estimating System, is
an automated, electronic data management information system for gather-ing greenhouse gas emissions and energy usage data from energy companyoperations. ChevronTexaco used the software in 2002 to compile the ﬁrstcomprehensive greenhouse gas inventory for the newly merged company. 
By combining greenhouse gas emissions and energy utilization estimates,
the SANGEA™ software is highly efﬁcient, eliminating duplicate work andproviding for consistent energy use reporting at a facility. The SANGEA™software is implemented as an enterprisewide, complete process for datageneration, calculation, analysis, reporting and management of data fromexploration and production, reﬁning and marketing, petrochemicals,
transportation, electricity generation, manufacturing, real estate, andcoal activities.
In the six months since we announced that our software is available with-
out charge, more than 150 companies have contacted us to learn moreabout it. ChevronTexaco has delivered more than 80 copies of the software.For more information about SANGEA™, please contact: 
Susann Nordrum
ChevronTexaco Energy Technology CompanyEmail: cegis@chevrontexaco.comPhone: +1 (510) 242-1412
Hazem Arafa
American Petroleum InstituteEmail: Arafa@api.orgPhone: +1 (202) 682-8506Case Study > SANGEA™ Emissions Monitoring Software
412002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Background: Meeting Energy
Demand through Innovation
Meeting the world’s demand for
energy in ways that are environ-mentally, socially and economi-cally sound requires creativityand technological innovation.ChevronT exaco believes fossilfuels will provide the vast major-ity of near-term energy supplies,and that improvements in fossilfuel technologies and products
hold the promise of substantially improved efﬁciency and reducedenvironmental impacts.
Still, concerns about so ciety’s dependence on these fuels have stimulated
increased research and investment in alternative and renewable energytechnologies. Hydrogen-based fuels and fuel cells, in particular, are con-
sidered by some to be pro mising, although major technological and eco-
nomic hurdles must yet be overcome before hydrogen will be a practicalalternative as a mass-market energy source.
Approach: Investing Wisely in Promising Technologies
ChevronT exaco invests in new and emerging technologies that maycreate economic value for the compan y,while offering the potential for
reduced environmental impacts. We identify promising new technolo-
gies; invest in start-up companies and venture capital funds; and form
alliances and joint ventures for research and development projects.Between 1999 and 2003, we estimate that ChevronT exaco will havespent an average of approximately US $110 million per year on invest-
ments in renewable energy, alternative energy and energy efﬁciency.
Two wholly owned ChevronT exac o subsidiaries focus on the develop-
ment and commercialization of new and emerging energy sources:
>ChevronT exaco T echnology Ventures develops advanced energy sources,
through ChevronT exaco-sponsored research and development and incollaboration with others, to demo nstrate new technologies and infra-
structure solutions.
>Chevron Energy Solutions markets and implements promising new
commercial energy technologies, as we ll as more traditional technolo-
gies to help customers save energy costs.
ChevronTexaco Technology Ventures
employees Alice Boutan and GregRomney, with an advanced battery 
for hybrid cars, at the company’s fuel-processing facility in Bellaire, Texas.Energy Technologies© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.422002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
In addition to continuing major in vestments in natural gas, oil and
cleaner-burning fuels, ChevronT exac o investments in cleaner technolo-
gies are focused in the following areas:
>Fuel cells and processing :Fuel cells, which combine hydrogen and oxy-
gen to create electricity, can be a more efﬁcient and environmentallypreferable source of energy. In fuel cells, use of hydrogen produces nounburned hydrocarbons, nitrogen o xides, carbon monoxide or green-
house gases, such as those produced by burning fossil fuels. But depend-ing on the source, some emissions ma y result from making the hydrogen.
ChevronT exaco believes that converting readily available fossil fuels,
such as natural gas, into hydrogen to power fuel cells is the most real-istic near-term method for enabling fuel cell technology to matureand markets to develop. While the use of renewable energy sources –such as solar or wind – to power fuel cells offers the potential to mini-mize the environmental impacts even further, existing infrastructure,cost considerations and other prac tical issues mean that widespread
use of renewable energy sources is not yet economically feasible.
ChevronT exaco T echnology Ventures has developed the 
HALIAS ™
fuel processor, a stand-alone unit that turns natural gas or propaneinto hydrogen fuel. Several production-ready 
HALIAS ™ prototypes
are now in long-term testing.
Additionally, ChevronT exaco Energy T echnology Company and its
downstream companies are working with auto companies and othersto develop fuel processors to convert familiar fuels such as gasoline
into hydrogen. T o date, this work primarily has involved fuel proces-sors on vehicles, but the res ults also support other applications.
To gain ﬁrsthand experience with fuel cell technology, we have
installed fuel cell systems to supply  power to run information tech-
nology systems at our headquarters in San Ramon, California, and
research laboratories at our facility in Bellaire, T exas.
>Hydrogen storage :Efﬁcient and safe hydrogen storage technology is a key
component in enabling the hydrogen and fuel cell markets to develop.
Through T exaco Ovonic Hydrogen Systems, a 50/50 joint venturebetween ChevronT exaco and Energy Conversion Devices (
ECD ), we are
working to advance the commercialization of hydrogen storage solutions.
The advanced technology developed by the joint venture enables hydro-gen to be stored in a solid state at low pressure and ambient temperature,two important improvements over other existing hydrogen storage tech-nologies. The systems being developed are for hydrogen storage in smallportable applications such as backup po wer systems to replace batteries;Energy Technologies (Continued)
bulk storage for stationary uses, such as distributed power facilities and
hydrogen service stations; and o n-board storage for vehicles.
>Advanced batteries :Through T exaco Ovonic Battery Systems, another
50/50 joint venture between ChevronT exaco and 
ECD ,we are working
to commercialize nickel-metal hydride ( NiMH) batteries, which can be
used to power transportation vehic les and stationary devices, such as
telecommunications equipme nt. In addition to providing more than
twice the energy and lasting longer than conventional lead-acid bat-teries,
NiMH batteries are an environmentally  preferable alternative
because the materials used in the batteries do not contain cadmiumor lead, both of which are en vironmentally hazardous substances.
>Rene wable Energy :ChevronT exaco also has invested in renewable
energy development, which helps us learn about renewables and their
role in our future global energy mix. For example, through a joint
venture, we have invested in a wind farm that is now producing elec-
tricity at a reﬁnery in the Netherlands. It has nine turbines capable ofproducing 22.5 megawatts of power. Two geothermal plants atDarajat, West Java, together produce 145 megawatts of electricity.ChevronT exaco’s Upstream Indonesia Business Unit supplies thesteam for both plants, and constructed and operates one of them.
In another renewable-energy project, we have installed a solar photo-
voltaic facility to help power our oil ﬁeld operations in California’s San
Joaquin Valley. The demonstration project provides 500 kilowatts of
power and is one of the largest photovoltaic installations in the UnitedStates and the largest array of ﬂexible, amorphous-silicon solar tech-nology in the world.
>Gasiﬁcation Technology :With more than 50 years of experience in
the ﬁeld, ChevronT exaco is among the world leaders in gasiﬁcationtechnology. The company licenses or has equity interests in more than
60 commercial gasiﬁcation plants that ar e either in operation or in
advanced development around the world.
The T exaco Gasiﬁcation Processes (
TGP ) are efﬁcient and versatile
technologies that can convert a variety of different hydrocarbons –
including waste oil, coal, coke, fuel oils and gas streams – into cleaner
synthesis gas, or syngas. The syngas is use d for generating electricity
and for producing industrial che micals and gases, as well as cleaner
liquid fuels. TGP offers advantages over conventional combustion
processes, including having a higher fuel efﬁciency, which can meanthat fewer greenhouse gases are genera ted for a comparable energy
output. The technology also can be used to remove 
CO2,allowing for
integration with CO2sequestration processes.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
432002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Background: Addressing an Operational Challenge
Natural gas often occupies underground reservoirs with oil and is pro-
duced along with the oil. Such “associated gas” is separated from the oilafter it is brought to the surface. Where possible, ChevronT exaco andother energy companies reinject the gas back into the underground for-mation. Gas that is not reinjected often is used as an energy source forthe production facility. But in many cases, excess gas remains. When thisgas cannot be used or sold – due to lack of markets or infrastructuresuch as pipelines – it often is burned off at the production site, a prac-tice called “routine ﬂaring.” ChevronT exaco and other energy companieshave faced criticism for the use of ﬂaring because it wastes a naturalresource, releases greenhouse gases and can negatively affect nearby
communities.
Approach: Developing New Markets and Infrastructure
ChevronT exaco is working to better manage routine ﬂaring in its world-
wide exploration and production operations. We are developing mar-
kets for our associated gas and investing in the needed gas processing
and pipeline systems. The company also has undertaken projects toconvert natural gas to liquid fuels and to liqueﬁed natural gas, which
can then be transported to markets. We are participants in the WorldBank Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership, a public-private initia-tive working to reduce ﬂaring and venting of associated gas worldwide.
Performance: Working to Reduce Flaring
In the United States, ChevronT exaco has virtually eliminated routine
ﬂaring, due to a combination of available gas markets, regulatoryrequirements and voluntary participation in initiatives like the U.S.
EPA’s Star program. In the United States, ﬂaring accounts for less than
1percent of ChevronT exaco’s total upstream greenhouse gas emissions
of approximately 12 million metric tons.
ChevronT exaco’s international upstream companies are engaged in
numerous projects to reduce and, in some places, eliminate routineﬂaring of gas. For example:
>In Nigeria, our business unit is developing several projects that will
reduce ﬂaring from our operations by several hundred million cubic
feet per day. T o give a sense of scale, 100 million cubic feet of gas per
day corresponds to approximately 13 percent of Nigeria’s total natural
gas consumption. These projects include the Escravos Gas-to-LiquidsPlant, expansion of our Escravos Gas Plant and the West Africa GasPipeline, which will carry gas that otherwise would have been ﬂaredfrom Nigeria to users in T ogo, Benin and Ghana.>In Kazakhstan, T engizchevroil (
TCO ), a joint venture that
ChevronT exaco operates, reduced ﬂaring by approximately two-thirdsbetween 2000 and 2002.
TCO invested more than US$140 million to
repair and upgrade existing facilit ies and install new equipment. As a
result of the improvements, more than 120 million cubic feet of gas
per day no longer is ﬂared.
>ChevronT exaco has committed to eliminate routine ﬂaring from 
its operations in Angola. In addit ion to working with the Angolan
government to develop and oper ate new oil production without
routine ﬂaring, we are pursuing other projects that will eliminate
existing routine ﬂares from our older facilities. We expect theseprojects, including the Sanha Condensate Project and the TakulaGas Processing Platform Project, to eliminate the ﬂaring of morethan 350 million cubic feet per day.Flaring© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
442002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Managing Our Emissions
Like all energy companies, ChevronT exaco’s operations produce emis-
sions such as sulfur oxides, nitro gen oxides, volatile organic compounds
and carbon monoxide, which can cont ribute to local and regional air
pollution. Through our Operational Excellence Management System, werequire our business units to track current air emissions, forecast future
emissions, and minimize the environmental and health risks associatedwith those emissions. We do not collec t corporatewide, nongreenhouse
gas air emissions data.
ChevronT exaco designs new
facilities using guidelines andprocesses to minimize air emis-sions once the facilities are oper-ating. We also add emissioncontrol equipment to existing
facilities. In many cases, thiscontrol equipment is installed 
to comply with local and national
governmental requirements,although in some instances wehave gone beyond regulatoryrequirements. In most of our U.S.
marketing terminals, for example,we have installed controls thattypically reduce volatile organic
compounds emissions beyond
what is required by regulations.
In the United States, our reﬁner-
ies have made improvements in co ntrolling emissions of volatile organic
compounds and nitrogen oxides over the past several years. The net
increase in sulfur oxide emissions over the period is primarily due to
variability in reﬁnery operations and the types of crude oils processed.99 00 01 02Tons per million 
barrels processed
Tons per million 
barrels processed(left scale)
Note: NO x = nitrogen oxides
SOx = sulfur oxides
VOC = volatile organic compounds Thousands of 
tons per year
Tons per year
(right scale)U.S. Refining Emissions
VOCSOxNOx
VOCSOxNOx0515253545
0481216Air Emissions
Reducing Emissions from Our Products
In addition to air emissions from our own operations, we also are work-
ing to minimize the air emissions produc ed when our fuel products are
used. ChevronT exaco has undertaken a range of activities to developsuch cleaner fuels:
>We have been an industry leader in gasoline detergent additive tech-
nology, which reduces vehicle e missions by reducing engine deposits.
Since 1973, U.S. automakers have used Chevron gasoline with ourdeposit control technology to help certify their vehicles comply withU.S. Environmental Protection Agency emission standards.
>Company researchers have worked extensively with oil and auto
industry research organizations to characterize engine emissions, the
effects of vehicle design and fuels on these emissions, and the effects
of these emissions on air quality.
>We have worked with the 
U.S. EPA in its efforts to reduce sulfur
content of fuels to reduce emissions from combustion of these
products. ChevronT exaco plans to produce low-sulfur fuels wellahead of EPA deadlines.
>Outside the United States, ChevronT exaco plans to deliver low-sulfur
products in speciﬁc markets in Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
>We have been an advocate of producing unleaded gasoline ahead of
government mandates and have worked on this issue with govern-ments in Vietnam, South Africa and Kenya.
>We are members of the International Petroleum Industry Environ-
mental Conservation Associat ion and the American Petroleum
Institute, both of which are wo rking with the Partnership for Clean
Fuels and Vehicles. This global partnership, established in 2002 at
the World Summit for Sustainable Development, is supporting thephaseout of lead from fuels around the world and the reduction ofsulfur in gasoline and diesel fuel as advanced vehicle emission con-trols are introduced.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.452002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Background: Addressing 
an Operational Risk
Over the past several decades,
ChevronT exaco has taken signiﬁ-cant steps to improve its per-formance in the area of oil andchemical spill prevention andresponse. We focus ﬁrst on pre-
vention by assessing our risks
and taking necessary steps tomitigate them. Despite our bestefforts, spills and leaks do occur,and we have developed a rigor-ous emergency preparedness andresponse system. As part of the
system, ChevronT exaco helpsfund numerous industry oil spill
cleanup organizations worldwide and sponsors two or three major oil
spill drills each year to provide training to several hundred key respon-ders throughout the company. In 2002, we conducted major spill exer-cises in Malaysia and Grenada. Individual facilities also conductnumerous emergency response drills each year, many in coordinationwith local and national authorities and other industry operators.
Approach: Focusing on Prevention
Our business units are taking a comprehensi ve and systematic approach
to reducing the risk of spills. For example:
>The California-based San Joaquin Valley Business Unit formed an Oil
Spill Prevention T eam with a goal of eliminating spills. The unit estab-lished a spill-prevention budget to  supplement facilities’ operating
budgets, identiﬁed and prioriti zed the highest spill risks, and applied
new and existing technology to prevent spills. The unit decreased spillsby 700 barrels, or approximately 60 percent, between 2001 and 2002
and is sharing its technology and learning across the company.
>In Nigeria, ChevronT exaco’s upstream business unit implemented 
a new process to better assess the risk of leaks from pipelines.Through this analysis, it identi ﬁed and is implementing more than
25 distinct projects designed to ac hieve a tenfold reduction in the
risk of spills related to pipeline corrosion, erosion-induced failure,
mechanical damage, operational upse ts or equipment failures.
>ChevronT exaco’s North American pipeline company is implementing
a Pipeline Integrity Management Plan. Under the plan, more than8,000 miles of pipelines that could affect a “high consequence area”
will be assessed, half by the end of 2004 and the remainder by the end
of 2010. High-consequence areas include populated areas, commer-cially navigable waterways, unusually sensitive ecological areas anddrinking water sources. These assessments will include the use ofinternal inspection tools, called “ smart pigs,” to measure and analyze
conditions along the walls of the pipes to pinpoint potential problems
before they can become leaks.
>In 2002, ChevronT exaco Shipping (
CTS) Company led the industry
in spill prevention. With an intense focus on spill prevention, CTS
transported more than 250 million barrels of crude oil in its con-trolled ﬂeet of vessels, without a single spill to water.
Performance: Establishing a Commitment to Improve
We were not satisﬁed with our performance in this area in 2002 because
we did not make progress in reducing spills from the previous year, andwe did not meet our performance target. In 2002, ChevronT exaco had1,502 oil spills, with a total spilled volume of nearly 55,000 barrels. Thisis in the context of 2002 net production  of crude oil and natural gas liq-
uids of approximately 638 million barrels and product sales totalingapproximately 1.4 billion barrels. Many of these spills were containedwithin areas such as dikes around tanks. We track all spills because they
have the potential to affect the environment. Less than 1 percent of thespilled oil went to water, and a little more than half of the total spilledvolume was immediately recovered.
ChevronT exaco experienced two signiﬁcant oil spills in 2002: a 14,000-
barrel spill at a storage facility in Panama, which was contained withinthe tank dike area, and an 18,000-barrel spill in Nigeria associated witha tank ﬁre ignited by a lightning strike. In the latter case, a smallamount of oil was released from the tank containment area. This eventis a primary factor contributing to our relatively low amount of spilledoil recovered when compared with 2001; oil consumed in the ﬁre wasnot counted as “recovered.”
We recognize that even minor spills can have an impact. For example,
a relatively small spill (nine barrels) in our upstream operations in
Cabinda, Angola, had a signiﬁcant impact on the local community.Fishing in the vicinity was suspended immediately for a number of daysas a health and safety precaution. While the environmental effects wereminimal, and we believe we responded effectively and responsibly, our
reputation nevertheless was damaged as a result of this incident. During
the investigation into the cause, it was determined that the undersea
pipeline involved could not be repaired easily and returned to serviceA spill drill in Port Dickson,
Malaysia, brought together gov-ernment groups and 80 employeesfrom the U.S., Asia, the MiddleEast and Africa.
Spills© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
462002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
without some risk of an additional leak. Th erefore, some oil production
was shut into allow for replaceme nt of portions of the line on a priority
basis. During this period, ChevronT exaco reduced production byapproximately 2.7 million barrels rather than run the risk of an addi-tional spill from the pipeline.
ChevronT exaco also tracks spills of chemicals, including industrial
chemicals, some catalysts used in reﬁning operations and some types of
materials used in drilling oil and gas wells. In 2002, we had 75 chemicalreleases totaling 135 metric tons (135,075 kg) in our worldwide opera-
tions. Of that amount, 62 metric tons (62,303 kg), or slightly under halfof the volume, was recovered immediately. Because we began trackingspills of chemicals consistently across our operating companies in late2001, trend history data are not yet available.
Future Goals: Setting an Aggressive Target
ChevronT exaco’s goal is to be a leader in its industry in spill prevention.
Our near-term target is to reduce total volume of oil spilled by 20 per-cent each year over the next three years. We also are working within
industry associations to help bring consistency to the collection andreporting of spill data industrywide. Such standardization will help us
better measure progress against our world-class performance standard.ChevronTexaco Petroleum Spills*
Number of spills
Volume of spills 
(barrels)
Volume recovered
(barrels)1999
2,169
164,686
––2000
1,553
34,460
––2001
1,428
54,834
48,3482002
1,502
54,696
27,805
*1999 –2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 data are  
  ChevronTexaco.  Note:  Prior to 2001, volume recovered was not  
  tracked at the corporate level.Spills (Continued)
Case Study > Shipping’s Spill-Free Record
In 2001 and 2002, ChevronTexaco Shipping (CTS) Company’s safety and
environmental performance led the industry, based on benchmarking datafrom large competitors that operate tanker ﬂeets.
CTS operates a trading ﬂeet of 25 tankers, of which all but one are double-
sided, and 23 of which are double-hulled. In 2002, CTS transported morethan 250 million barrels of crude oil in its controlled ﬂeet of vessels, with-out a single spill to water. In addition, when chartering third-party vesselsCTS uses a comprehensive clearance and vetting system for screening andmonitoring all vessels it charters to identify the safest and most reliablevessels available.  
CTS works to continually supplement its knowledge and improve its
performance through participation in organizations such as the OilCompanies International Marine Forum, whose mission is to be the fore-most authority on the safe and environmentally responsible operation ofoil tankers and terminals.
In 2002, Chevron Shipping
transported more than 250 millionbarrels of crude oil in its controlledvessel ﬂeet without a single spill
to water.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
47Water2002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Approach: 
Waste Management Planning
ChevronT exaco requires its busi-
nesses to continually improveprocesses to minimize pollutionand waste. Our business unitsdevelop waste management plansthat track the wastes they pro-duce, follow a waste minimiza-tion hierarchy (reduce/recycle/treat/dispose), comply with allregulations and, when local regu-
lations do not exist, apply appropriate waste management practices.ChevronT exaco’s capital project management process also includes spe-ciﬁc tools and activities that integrate pollution prevention and wasteminimization concepts into the designs for its projects so that they gen-erate fewer and less hazardous wastes. We do not track waste volumesor types corporatewide.
ChevronT exaco has gained expertise in upgrading and building new
waste facilities, particularly in places where waste management is com-plicated by lack of infrastructure. We also participate in a number ofindustry forums, including the Inte rnational Association of Oil and
Gas Producers and the Petroleum Environmental Research Forum, todevelop and share improved waste management practices within theindustry. Examples of recent or planned investments in waste manage-ment facilities include:
>Sumatra, Indonesia :ChevronT exaco recently  began operating several
major facilities to improve management of oily wastes, including aslurry injection facility and a bioremediation unit to treat oily soils andwastes. Since 2000, the company has spent more than US$50 millionon the design, construction and operation of these facilities, and we
plan to continue to upgrade waste facilities there in 2003 and 2004.
>Kazakhstan :the company’s joint venture T engizchevroil has initiated
construction on a US$16 million integrated waste management facil-
ity. The facility will include a recycling area, a landﬁll and a wastetreatment area.
>Venezuela :in 2002, we commissioned a US$1.8 million facility designed
to handle a broad spectrum of wast es from the Boscan oil ﬁeld.Approach: Conserving a Natural Resource
Availability of and access to fresh water is one of the world’s most press-
ing challenges. ChevronT exaco and other energy companies use relativelylarge volumes of both fresh water and sea water in their operations such
as for oil and gas drilling and pro-duction as well as in processingand manufacturing operations, forcooling and steam generation. Our
use of fresh water can affect localecosystems and communities, par-ticularly in places where it is scarce.
ChevronT exaco also discharges
water from operating facilities andfrom oil and gas production. Watersometimes resides in undergroundreservoirs with oil and gas. When
the oil and gas are extracted, water also may be extracted. This “pro-duced water” is either reinjected into the subsurface it came from or istreated and discharged. If the water discharged from our operations isnot adequately treated, it can negatively affect the environment.
ChevronT exaco requires its business units to evaluate their use of and
impacts on all natural resources and to identify and implement conser-vation opportunities. At many of our facilities, we track discharges towater and take steps to minimize the environmental and health risksassociated with those discharges.
Some of our facilities have implement ed process changes designed to
minimize the use of fresh water, particularly where supplies are limited.For instance, our California reﬁneries in Richmond, and El Segundo,
use “reclaimed water,” which is treated domestic sewage, instead of freshwater, for cooling in the manufacturing process. Other ChevronT exacoreﬁneries around the world are invest igating water reuse opportunities.
The company also continually looks fo r ways to minimize the effects of
discharged water and, in some cases, put it to beneﬁcial use. For exam-
ple, in California’s Kern River region, where fresh water is limited, thecompany’s upstream operations provide appropriately treated discharged
water to a local utility for agricultural irrigation.
Future Goals: Developing a Comprehensive Strategy
ChevronT exaco’s upstream operating companies are developing a com-
prehensive strategy to manage produced water. The strategy will addressreinjection of produced water, minimizing the environmental and social
impacts, as well as the potential beneﬁcial uses of discharged water.Waste
Steven Carter and Mike Carter take
water samples at Richmond Reﬁnery
wetlands in California.At the Minas Field in Indonesia, 
a tractor ploughs soil to increase air penetration causing microbesto digest impurities.
© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Approach: Working to Prevent
Problems
ChevronT exaco’s aim is to
responsibly steward its assets
throughout their lifecycle, fromdesign and construction, throughoperation and, in some cases, saleto another party or decommis-
sioning. Our goal is to preventenvironmental problems beforethey happen. When designingand building new projects, weinclude many design elements toprevent impacts to land and
groundwater. Some of our facilities have been in operation for many
decades, over which time practices for facility design, waste managementand spill prevention have evolved. Although they were consistent withstandard industry practices at the t ime, our past operating practices at
some of these locations resulted in releases of hydrocarbons and other
chemicals to land and groundwater. ChevronT exaco expects its businessesto evaluate potential risks posed by these past releases and to take steps to
mitigate them.
In the case of asset sales, it is our policy to assess and manage our envi-
ronmental liabilities prior to any property transactions. Appropriate
cleanup or restoration is conducted as needed to ensure that the prop-erty is suitable for continued current use or, if the use is changing, forthe intended future use. But at times the new owner may not properlymanage its environmental obligations, or the property may subse-quently change hands. In some instances, external parties have soughtto make us responsible for remediatio n of subsequent damage, despite
our view that we had previously met our obligations.
Chevron Environmental Management Company (EMC), a wholly
owned operating company, focuses primar ily on the responsible decom-
missioning and cleanup of ChevronT exaco sites. EMC uses a rigorousprocess for managing environmental cleanups based on its experience
in managing capital construction projects. Although EMC’s activitiesare focused primarily in the United Stat es, it works collaboratively with
ChevronT exaco business units worldwide on land and groundwaterassessments, cleanups and decommissioning, as well as helping reducefuture liabilities through technology  transfer and best-practice sharing.Case Study > Offshore Drilling Discharges
Drilling oil and gas wells requires the use of drilling ﬂuids to remove rock
“cuttings” from the wellbore and to control formation pressure. Drillingﬂuids are made of various chemical compositions depending on the geo-logic and reservoir formations being drilled. These ﬂuids are pumped downthe hole and transported back to the surface with the cuttings that are“cut loose” as we drill. The cuttings are then separated from the drillingﬂuid at the surface. In the offshore environment, depending on the chemi-cal composition used and local conditions, cuttings with residual drillingﬂuids are often discharged to the sea. This discharge must be carefullymanaged to minimize its impact on the marine environment.
In reviewing our worldwide offshore drilling ﬂuid management practices in
2002, we identiﬁed several opportunities for improvement. As a result,
ChevronTexaco is developing a new performance standard that uses eco-logical risk criteria to deﬁne what can and cannot be discharged into waterand establishes buffer zones to help protect biologically sensitive areas. Italso requires new offshore drilling projects to evaluate the technical andeconomic feasibility of reinjecting cuttings back into subsurface formations,instead of discharging them into the sea.
Under the standard, all offshore drilling rigs using drilling ﬂuids that are
not water-based will be equipped with advanced cuttings cleaning systems.Such systems reduce the environmental impact of discharging drilled cut-tings into the sea.
The standard also requires all drilling projects to undergo a risk-based
screening to determine the adequacy of environmental practices. Thescreening considers site-speciﬁc factors such as ocean depth and prevailingcurrents, toxicity and biodegradation of drilling ﬂuids, and the volume ofcuttings generated. This information is used to determine whether dis-charging is acceptable in a given location and to identify the appropriatecleaning technology to help protect the local marine environment.
482002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Decommissioning & Remediation
In Cincinnati, Ohio, a natural wet-
land ﬂourishes where a reﬁneryonce stood, following aChevronTexaco restoration program.492002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
>In 2002, the U.S. EPA recognized ChevronT exaco for its innovative han-
dling of the environmental – as well as community – issues surroundingthe cleanup of its former Cincinnati Reﬁnery. The Cincinnati facilityand its employees also received certiﬁcation from the Wildlife HabitatCouncil for the development of a successful wildlife management
program, including habitat restorat ion, wetlands creation, and a joint
project with EPA and the University of Cincinnati, that uses plants tohelp accelerate the cleanup.
>In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, ChevronT exaco’s upstream company has
removed approximately 230 platforms since 1986. Approximately 40
of these platforms were used as artiﬁcial reefs to provide enhancedmarine habitats as part of government-sponsored Rigs to Reefs pro-grams. The remainder of the platforms were either recycled at steel
mills or reused as platforms elsewhere in the Gulf of Mexico.
>In 2003, the U.S. EPA gave national recognition to ChevronT exaco as
one of only a handful of companies committed to key cleanup objec-tives at former reﬁneries and chemical facilities under the ResourceConservation and Recovery Act by 2005. We are well on our way to
meeting this commitment.
>In the Partitioned Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait,
Saudi Arabian T exaco, Inc., is undertaking an extensive cleanup ofoily pits caused by historic operating practices. This multiyear project
will address 65 separate pits comprising more than 3 million square
meters of impacted land area.
>In Indonesia, prior to turning the lease for  a major production block
over to a new operator, ChevronT exaco undertook an extensive review
and cleanup effort to help ensure the facilities were transferred in a safe
and environmentally sound condition. Al l of these activities were docu-
mented to communicate the condition of the production facilities to thenew operator and to the Indonesian government. The operating block
also received ISO 14001 certiﬁcation as further demonstration of theenvironmental processes and practices in place prior to ChevronT exaco’srelinquishing control.Decommissioning & Remediation (Continued)
Performance: Managing Our Liabilities Responsibly
Like many other large energy companies operating in the United States,
ChevronT exaco is cleaning up a number of sites where it has current orpast operations. We currently are cleaning up more than 3,000 suchsites in the United States. These are primarily current or former servicestations, reﬁneries, oil and gas ﬁelds, and chemical facilities, as well aswaste sites covered under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’sSuperfund program. We are addressing potential risks associated with
releases to soil and groundwater resulting from historical operations
that, in some cases, go back nearly 100 years. ChevronT exaco has spentmore than US$3 billion on such cleanups since 1980. Much of this workhas been undertaken voluntarily in cooperation with regulatory agen-cies. Internationally, ChevronT e xaco uses the same risk management
philosophy in its approach to site cleanups.
Particularly in our upstream operations, we also are engaged in multiple
efforts to decommission our facilities, including closing oil and gas wells
that are no longer productive ,dismantling surface equipment and
pipelines, and removing offshore platforms at the end of their servicelife. Annually, we plug more than a thousand wells and remove severaloffshore platforms.
The following are examples of ChevronT exaco’s successful decommis-
sioning or cleaning up of company sites:
>In Fullerton, California, ChevronT exaco is turning a former oil pro-
duction property into a 760-unit housing facility, including single-and multiple-family residences. The plan includes a neighborhood
commercial center, open space with native habitat conservation areas,
a public use site with parks and schools, private recreational ameni-ties, bikeways, and eight miles of recreational trails.
1999
2000
2001
2002U.S. Expenditures Year
$298 million
$280 million$284 million$327 millionU.S. Service Station
Cleanups Completed
191
293264
222Platforms Removed
(Gulf of Mexico)
7
13
0
4ChevronTexaco’s U.S. Decommissioning and Cleanup Activities and Expenditures
© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.Case Study > Legacy in Ecuador
502002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
From 1964 to 1992, Texaco Petroleum Company (Texpet) was a minority
partner in an oil exploration and production consortium in an environ-mentally sensitive rain forest region in Ecuador. For most of that period,Texpet was the operator of the ﬁeld and associated pipeline, while
PetroEcuador, the state oil company, was the majority partner.
Although 95 percent of the total earnings that the consortium produced
went to PetroEcuador and contributed to Ecuador’s economy, questions
have been raised about the possible environmental and health conse-quences for the region and the indigenous people who live there.
Consistent with company practice, at the time of Texpet’s departure from
the consortium, it undertook environmental audits to determine whetherthere were any concerns that needed to be addressed. The company sub-sequently entered into an agreement with PetroEcuador, the Ecuadoriannational government, and representatives of indigenous groups and localmunicipalities to manage and fund a US$40 million remediation program.This included closure and remediation of well sites, soils remediation, andinstallation of produced water treatment and reinjection systems.
In addition, the company created a US$1 million fund for socioeconomic
projects by nongovernmental organizations and a second US$1 millionfund for the construction of four schools and adjacent medical clinics andvehicles for transportation.
The company received certiﬁcation and approval from government
inspectors on a site-by-site basis made through several phases of theproject. In 1998, the government of Ecuador and the local municipalitiesprovided a ﬁnal certiﬁcation for the program, releasing the company fromfurther claims or obligations.
Notwithstanding these efforts, in 1993 lawyers representing a group of
indigenous Ecuadorian Indians brought suit against Texaco Inc. in theUnited States, charging that the company was responsible for allegedhealth problems and environmental damage caused by the oil-producingactivities. On four separate occasions, U.S. courts dismissed the lawsuitbecause they determined that the United States was not the proper juris-diction. Ultimately, the plaintiffs’ lawyers accepted these rulings and inMay 2003 ﬁled a suit against ChevronTexaco Corporation in anEcuadorian court. ChevronTexaco Corporation and Texaco Inc. maintainthere has yet to be presented any scientiﬁc evidence to substantiate theallegations, and there is no basis for this lawsuit.
This case has received widespread publicity over the years. It illustrates
the complex issues associated with oil-producing activities, including theresponsibilities of minority and majority partners, the accountability of
state oil companies and governments, the differing expectations of vari-ous stakeholders, and the ability of court systems to adjudicate complexaffairs where the issue of jurisdiction is not always clear.
Background: Preserving a
Critical Natural Resource
Biodiversity refers to the entire
variety of life on earth. It encom-passes genes, species and ecosys-tems, and the processes that
support them. Biodiversity sup-ports human life on the planetand, in addition to its intrinsicvalue, provides essential servicesand products we all depend on,including food, clothing, shelter,fuel and medicines. In recentyears, there has been growing
recognition that preservation of
biodiversity is not only an envi-ronmental issue, but also one
with important social and eco-
nomic implications. The public has become increasingly concernedabout the loss of biodiversity in key regions of the world and the roleindustry has played in that loss.
Energy companies such as ChevronT exaco can affect biodiversity in a
variety of ways, ranging from direct or primary impacts such as landclearance, to indirect or secondary impacts, like road building, whichcan invite population migration into remote, environmentally sensitiveareas, as well as introduce nonnative invasive species through move-ment of equipment and materials.
Approach: Integrating Biodiversity Considerations into Operations
ChevronT exaco is participating in the Energy & Biodiversity Initiative(
EBI), a collaboration started in 2001 among industry and interna-
tional environmental conservation or ganizations working to integrate
biodiversity conservation into o il and gas exploration and develop-
ment. EBI participants include ChevronT exaco, BP , Shell and Statoil,together with Conservation International, Fauna and Flora Interna-
A Bee Orchid grows near our opera-
tions in Wales. The petals of theﬂower resemble bees trying to getthe pollen, thus attracting real bees.Biodiversity© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
512002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Case Study > Pembroke Reﬁnery’s 
Biodiversity Plantional, The Smithsonian Institutio n, The Nature Conservancy and the
Wor ld Conservation Union.
We also continue to expand our knowledge of how to address biodi-
versity issues in our operations thr ough our participation in the joint
Biodiversity Working Group of the International Petroleum IndustryEnvironmental Conservation Associat ion and the International Associ-
ation of Oil and Gas Producers (
OGP ). We are also members of the joint
effort between OGP and the International Association of GeophysicalContractors to address effects of o il and gas exploration and production
noise on the marine environment, as well as OGP’s project to developguidelines for conducting environme ntal baseline surveys in deep water.
To help protect sensitive areas around our operations, several
ChevronT exaco business units have created a set of HabitatManagement Guidelines. These guidelines, w hich were developed in
cooperation with technical experts and are supplemented with training
for employees, provide business units with information and tools toprevent damage to local habitats and provide guidance on land restora-tion when impacts do occur.
Performance: Demonstrating Biodiversity Conservation Around the World
ChevronT exaco has a number of speciﬁc programs to address biodiver-
sity conservation, particularly wher e we operate in areas of high biodi-
versity value or sensitivity. For example:
>In Papua New Guinea’s biologically diverse Southern Highlands
Provinc e, ChevronT exaco’s operations have been cited as a model for
compatibly operating in diverse ecosystems.
>On Barrow Island, a Class A Nature Reserve off the west coast of
Australia, and in parts of California’s San Joaquin Valley, the company
protects endangered species and their habitats as part of its explo-ration and production operations. The Barrow Island operation has
received numerous awards in the past two years, including recogni-
tion from the Institute of Petroleum, the Australian PetroleumProduction and Exploration Association and World Oil.
>Several ChevronT exaco reﬁneries engage in voluntary biodiversity
conservation projects, including conv ersion of wastewater treatment
ponds into aquatic habitat in Richmo nd, California; habitat enhance-
ment for endangered El Segundo Blue butterﬂies in Southern
California; and incorporation of wildlife habitat into reﬁnery remedi-ation plans at Cincinnati, Ohio.>ChevronT exaco also funds related research: In Angola and the Gulf of
Mexico, the company supports research and monitoring of whales
and dolphins; in coastal Panama, the company supports research inmangrove and coral reef ecosystems.
Future Goals: Establishing a More Systematic Approach
Over the past several years, our understanding of biodiversity conserva-
tion concerns has expanded. As a res ult, we have identiﬁed the opportu-
nity to more systematically manage the issue by better integrating it into
our Operational Excellence Management System. In 2003,ChevronT exaco’s international exploration and production company isbeginning to evaluate the work products from the Energy & BiodiversityInitiative. This includes identiﬁcat ion of priorities and opportunities to
test and adapt EBI products for use in our operations. We also are initi-
ating efforts to promote more awar eness of biodiversity conservation in
our company, deﬁning the extent of our operations in or near legallyprotected and biodiversity sensitive areas, understanding the implica-tions of the Convention on Biological Diversity and promoting industryuse of the EBI products.
In late 2001, ChevronTexaco’s
Pembroke reﬁnery in Pembrokeshire,
Wales, developed and began imple-
menting its Biodiversity Action Plan(BAP). The plan was produced byecologists from Ulster University inconjunction with the CountrysideCouncil for Wales, a nongovernmen-tal organization dedicated to envi-ronmental protection of the region.
The reﬁnery’s BAP aligns with andsupports the local community’s BAP ,which is required by law.
Pembroke Reﬁnery’s BAP identiﬁes
the major habitats in the 1,250 acr es it owns outside its main operating
area, which include seminatural grasslands, extensive hedgerow networks,a native mature oak woods and a marshland. The plan provides guidance
for the company to monitor, manage and enhance the diverse range of habi-
tats in the area. Primary activities in 2002 were: 
ChevronTexaco’s Pembroke Reﬁn-
ery has developed a BiodiversityAction Plan for its operations.Biodiversity (Continued)© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.ChevronTexaco has brought to life its policy of protecting people and the
environment in the Kutubu Petroleum Development Project in Papua NewGuinea (PNG). The project area encompasses Lake Kutubu, a pristine lakein the Southern Highlands Province, and extends south to the Gulf ofPapua. The biologically diverse environment includes more than 700 bird
species; 15,000 ﬂowering plant species; and more than 300 species of ﬁsh,amphibians and reptiles. About 20,000 of the country’s 4 million peopleuse the rain forest as a base for subsistence gardening and hunting, andthe Kikori River for transportation and food.
Chevron Niugini worked with national and provincial governments, the
World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and communities to conserve the envi-
ronment, preserve cultural heritage and promote sustainable community
development. For example, Chevron Niugini implemented extensive meas-ures to help protect the environment and avoid environmental disturbance
by burying pipelines, reinjecting
produced water, minimizing roadconstruction, eliminating spills andcomprehensively managing wastes. 
Chevron Niugini, WWF , the Kutubu
Joint Venture partners and the PNGnational and provincial governmentsalso continued the Kikori IntegratedConservation and DevelopmentProject, a partnership established
in 1994 to help protect the Kikori
River system by working with local people to establish a model of ecologi-cally sustainable development. Noted scientist, environmentalist andPulitzer Prize-winning author Dr. Jared Diamond has done numerous bio-
logical surveys in the area of project operations. He has publicly praisedChevron Niugini for the effectiveness of its environmental conservationpractices and has referred to the company’s license area as “New Guinea’spremier conservation area.”
In 2003, ChevronTexaco sold its assets in PNG and has resigned as operator.
Joint venture participants have approved one of the companies, Oil SearchLtd. (OSL), to assume operatorship of the producing and exploration licenses.Final changeover of control will occur in October 2003. ChevronTexaco iscommitted to maintaining existing Chevron Niugini environmental conserva-tion and community development policies, programs and practices throughthe transition to the new operatorship.Case Study > Protecting Papua New Guinea’s 
Rain Forest
522002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
>Skylark monitoring and protection : A survey of the grassland in 2002
identiﬁed between 14 and 18 nesting pairs of skylarks, a European birdlisted on the endangered species list. The density is unusually high forthis type of bird in the area, and Pembroke plans to conduct on-goingmonitoring to determine the overall trend. The ﬁelds where the ground-nesting skylark breeds are managed so that the birds are not disturbeduntil after the ﬂedglings have left the nest.
>Habitat surveys : Students from a local school have undertaken a habitat
survey of a segment of the ﬁelds to identify major plant species, itemsof interest and the general condition of the hedgerows. A further segmentof ﬁelds is being surveyed in the summer of 2003. Ecologists also havecarried out a habitat survey of one of the marshes, identifying impor-tant fauna and ﬂora  (including otters, a protected species in the United
Kingdom). Recommendations for future work have been incorporatedinto the BAP . 
>Woodland management : Arboreal experts prepared a woodland manage-
ment plan for the next ﬁve years. Activities will include erection of stockfencing, removal of non-native trees, clearance of glades and planting ofnative saplings.
To complement its biodiversity initiative, the Pembroke Reﬁnery also initi-
ated an effort to remodel an existing structure on company property for useas an environmental center. The company is working with The Prince’s Trustto carry out the renovation work, construct ponds and build boardwalks toprovide access to the adjacent marsh. When the facility is completed, it willbe used by schoolchildren as a base for carrying out environmental studiesin the area.Chevron Niugini won praise for its
protection of Papua New Guinearain forests, where the company
sold its operations in 2003.
Case Study > Pembroke Reﬁnery’s
(Continued) Biodiversity Plan© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
532002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Background: Using an Important Tool for Managing Impacts
Environmental Impact Assessment ( EIA) processes are used by energy
companies to identify the potential en vironmental impacts of proposed
projects and to show how they intend to manage and mitigate them.ChevronT exaco and other energy companies have been conducting for-mal 
EIAs for a number of years, and many governments now require
such EIAs. Often, the perception of a company’s ability to effectively
manage the environmental impacts of a project determines whether
government agencies, local comm unities, business partners and other
stakeholders will grant the company permission to undertake theproject. In recent years, companies have begun experimenting with con-ducting formal Social Impact Assessments (
SIAs) and more comprehen-
sive Environmental and Social Impact Assessments ( ESIA s).
Approach: Integrating Results into Decision Making
Historically, ChevronT exaco has conducted EIAs wherever legally
required and for major new projects in environmentally sensitive loca-
tions. More recently, we have begun conducting SIAs and comprehensive
ESIA s for some major projects. For e xample, ChevronT exaco conducted
ESIA activities as part of several projects in 2002, including the Escravos
gas-to-liquids facility in Nigeria and the West Africa Gas Pipeline. In thecase of the pipeline, early input from the 
EIAallowed for up-front iden-
tiﬁcation of signiﬁcant impact areas and issues to be incorporated in
project design, as well as development of contractor requirements toaddress such impacts. Integration of the 
EIAinto the detailed pipeline
siting work helped to avoid sensitive areas and to reduce the project’s“footprint” in sensitive areas that could not be avoided.
For another major project, early assessme nt of possible sites for a lique-
ﬁed natural gas facility in the Congo River Delta in northern Angolaenabled us to incorporate environmental criteria – such as sensitiveareas, fauna and ﬂora, protected areas, and cultural and historical sites –into the site selection process.
ChevronT exaco also participates in seve ral industry initiatives designed
to increase awareness of the need for and value of
ESIA s and enhance
our own knowledge for designing and conducting them. For example,
we participated in the Internatio nal Association of Oil and Gas Pro-
ducers ( OGP ) and International Petroleum Industry Environmental
Conservation Association’s efforts to develop a tool to help companies
identify and manage social impacts in o il and gas projects. In 2003, we
are participating in new OGP projects to further promote integration
ofESIA s into capital projects.Environmental and Social Impact Assessments
Future Goals: Establishing Consistent Processes in
Upstream Operations
We believe we can more systematically use ESIAs as a tool to improve
our project planning, design and execution and to help manage thesocial and environmental issues in both new projects and ongoingoperations. Consequently, in 2002 Ch evronT exaco launched an effort
to establish a consistent set of ESIA expectations and work processes
to apply to its international upstream  activities. This work is continu-
ing in 2003.
In the Niger Delta, where lush,
towering mangroves providecommunities food and shelter,ChevronTexaco’s afﬁliate, ChevronNigeria Ltd. (CNL), uses a spacetechnology, called hyperspectralimaging, to “see” what the eyecannot. The company is a leader in environmental remote sensingamong oil and gas companies inNigeria. By conducting “environ-mental baseline” surveys usingthis technology, CNL better moni-tors its operations’ impacts on theenvironment over time.
The human eye sees a small portion of the electromagnetic spectrum
referred to as visible light. Hyperspectral instruments record more than
200 bands, allowing our technical experts to see objects over a continu-
ous portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that includes ultraviolet,visible, near infrared and a portion of solar reﬂected infrared radiation.CNL uses this and other remote sensing techniques onboard airplanesand satellites to snap “photos” of the 2,510 sq miles (6,500 sq km)where it conducts drilling, production and transportation operations.With this technology, comprehensive information about the environment
is obtained on a regional and ecosystem scale that reveals patterns andrelationships unavailable when using traditional data-gathering techniques.Using environmental baselineing
technology, Chevron Nigerialaunched a mangrove reforesta-tion project.
Case Study > Environmental Monitoring with 
Hyperspectral Imaging
© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.As the result of a baseline survey, the company developed a detailed
map for its operations in the Niger Delta to accurately depict the differ-ent vegetation types of the region. The area comprises brackish andfreshwater swamps, both of which are interspersed and connected bycreeks, but they still maintain distinct characteristics in a delicate bal-ance. Oil and gas activities can disrupt this balance. For example,pipeline construction or dredging activities that cross vegetation typescan introduce salt water into freshwater zones causing damage to thefreshwater habitats. By developing this detailed map, CNL is able to plan its construction activities to avoid sensitive areas and help preservethe delicate balance of the ecosystem. CNL also uses the technology for planning facilities, improving dredging practices, restoring impactedsites and developing Environmental Sensitivity Index maps to aid in oil spill response.
542002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
Approach: Identifying Issues Early and Minimizing Risk
ChevronT exaco seeks to manage the environmental, health and safety
impacts of its products throughout their entire life cycle. This concept isknown as “product stewardship.”
Product stewardship is an integral part of ChevronT exaco’s health, envi-
ronment and safety policy and approa ch. We require our businesses to:
>Identify potential health, environment and safety impacts early in the
development of new or improved products, and minimize risks topeople and the environment throughout each product’s life cycle.
>Communicate information on potential hazards to people who use
our products or who might be aff ected by them, including workers,
customers, third parties and distributors.
ChevronT exaco has a variety of processes and programs in place that
help it meet these commitments. For example, several of our down-stream operating companies have established formal risk management
processes in which they conduct routine product stewardship reviewson all product lines on a three- to ﬁve-year cycle. They also conductproduct stewardship reviews for major changes and projects that havepotentially signiﬁcant environmental, health and safety impacts. T ooversee those efforts, several businesses employ staffs devoted exclu-
sively to product stewardship.
Product stewardship reviews sometimes result in signiﬁcant changes.
For example, a review of the 2003 int roduction of ethanol into gasoline
marketed in California resulted in the development of an internal
ethanol storage and handling standard that we believe is among themost comprehensive in the industry.
We also work to educate customers and the public on safe and responsi-
ble handling of our products. We are implementing a new, Web-basedglobal system for managing material safety data sheets (MSDSs) and
other health, environment and safet y information. These documents
provide information on safe handling procedures for each of
ChevronT exaco’s products. Many countries require that this informa-tion be made available, and ChevronT exaco is working to provideMSDSs worldwide. The Web-based system currently stores more than50,000 MSDSs, and we plan to complete implementation of the world-wide MSDS system in 2004. We also have a 24-hour-a-day global hot-
line that provides public access to on-call technical specialists who cananswer questions about our products.Product Stewardship
Case Study > Environmental Monitoring with
(Continued) Hyperspectral Imaging© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.In an effort to raise public awareness around the issues of safe driving, fuel
efﬁciency and environment protection, ChevronTexaco’s subsidiary, CaltexOil (Thailand) Ltd., has teamed up with Thailand’s Land TransportationDepartment, part of the Thai Ministry of Transport and Communications, tosponsor a program called Save & Safe. The program also is supported by 10automobile and motorcycle manufacturers.
The program, which began in 2000,
focuses on promoting safe and fuel-efﬁcient driving techniques. Drivertraining is coupled with free enginecheckups and aimed at minimizingair and noise pollution. In manylocations in Thailand, training isprovided for professional drivers(such as school bus drivers) andordinary drivers. 
The free vehicle checkups, emissions
testing and tune-ups help drivers
better understand how to keep their vehicles maintained to reduce emis-sions and save fuel. Nearly 300 school buses were checked recently at aSave and Safe event at the Department of Land Transport in Bangkok. Atotal of 8,539 vehicles were tested in four provinces in Thailand in 2002.
The program also has provided an opportunity for dozens of aspiring
mechanics from Thai technical institutions to acquire valuable training andexperience by conducting the engine inspections and tune-ups. An esti-
mated 30,000 autos and motorcycles have been inspected in the nineprovinces and major metropolitan areas in the roughly three years in whichSave and Safe has been operational.Case Study > Driving Safety Program in Thailand
The company’s Save & Safeprogram promotes publicawareness of safe driving andenvironmental conservation in Thailand.
552002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
MTBE, or methyl tertiary butyl
ether, has been used as a blendingcomponent in gasoline since 1979.ChevronTexaco ﬁrst used MTBE inthe late 1980s to increase octane.MTBE came into widespread use inthe United States after 1990, whenthe Clean Air Act was amended torequire much of the nation’s gaso-
line to contain oxygen, which wasthought to reduce air emissions.This oxygen requirement is met byincluding an “oxygenate,” usuallyeither MTBE or ethanol, an alcoholderived from corn or other agricul-tural crops.
But in attempting to solve an air
quality problem, the widespread use of MTBE has created a differentproblem. MTBE is signiﬁcantly more soluble in water and persistent in theenvironment than other gasoline components. As a result, leaks and spillsof gasoline that contains MTBE can be difﬁcult to clean up, particularlywhen they reach groundwater. Some drinking-water supplies that havebeen con taminated by MTBE have been shut down pending remediation.
Consumers and government agencies in many parts of the United States
now oppose the use of MTBE in gasoline. Many state governments have
enacted or are considering mandatory phaseouts. These actions are based
not on health concerns, but on the fact that, in even very small amounts,MTBE can make water taste and smell unpleasant. ChevronTexaco is
responding to MTBE concerns in several ways:
>We are assessing and cleaning up as appropriate our current and former
service stations sites that have been affected by leaks or spills of gasolinecontaining MTBE.
>We no longer produce MTBE in North America. We have closed the MTBE
production facilities at our reﬁneries in Richmond, California; El Segundo,California; and Pascagoula, Mississippi. Our joint venture with a companythat once produced MTBE in Canada has switched its production to isooc-tane, a clean-burning gasoline blending component that does not havethe same water quality concerns.
Chevron Texaco is eliminating our
use of MTBE in gasoline in Califor-nia. We have replaced MTBE withethanol in our gasoline in southernCalifornia, and will complete theconversion to ethanol in northernCalifornia in adv ance of the state’s
Decem ber 2003 deadline.Case Study > MTBE Phaseout & CleanupProduct Stewardship, (Continued)
Future Goals: Implementing Processes Globally
Although product stewardship processes are well developed in several
operating companies, particularly in No rth America, ChevronT exaco
faces a challenge in imple menting equivalent syste ms across all its oper-
ations. T oward that goal, in 2003 we created a central technology groupresponsible for coordinating prod uct stewardship issues for our global
nonfuels businesses, including lubricants, chemical additives, andmarine fuels and lubricants.© 2003 ChevronTexaco Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
562002 ChevronTexaco Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental Issues
>We are eliminating our use of MTBE in California. Where the law requires
us to use an oxygenate, we are converting from MTBE to ethanol. Wehave replaced MTBE with ethanol in our gasoline in Southern Californiaand will complete the conversion to ethanol in Northern California inadvance of the state’s December 2003 deadline.
>We have worked hard to improve groundwater cleanup processes and
technology. ChevronTexaco Energy Technology Company has joined witha number of government and private organizations to manage researchon how to better clean up groundwater affected by oxygenates. Ourtechnical experts also have taught courses for the California State WaterResources Board and EPA on this subject.
Additionally, ChevronTexaco is pursuing government action to require 
the phaseout of MTBE in gasoline in the United States. We also continueto pursue alternatives to government oxygenate mandates since we haveshown that it is possible to make gasolines that achieve the air qualitybeneﬁts without adding any oxygenate.
The experience with MTBE illustrates the importance of looking at all
aspects of a product’s potential impacts. It has provided our company,the petroleum industry and government agencies with useful lessons,which ChevronTexaco already has begun integrating into its approach to other product stewardship issues.Environmental Expenditures and Fines
Environmental Expenditures
Using deﬁnitions and guidelines established by the American Petroleum
Institute, ChevronT exaco estimates its worldwide environmental
spending in 2002 at US$1.3 billion for its consolidated companies.Included in these expenditures are $399 million of environmental
capital expenditures and $925 million of costs associated with thecontrol and abatement of hazardous substances and pollutants from
our ongoing operations. This spending represents approximately
4.3 percent of capital and explorato ry expenditures and 11.8 percent
of operating expenses in 2002.
Environmental Fines
At times, ChevronT exaco facili-
ties have not met all governmen-tal environmental requirements,resulting in ﬁnes and penalties
by various agencies in addition
to ongoing environmental expen-
ditures. We regret these lapsesand are committed to learningfrom them to continuallyimprove our compliance withall applicable requirements. In2002, ChevronT exaco paid 82environmental ﬁnes or settle-ments for a total of US$4.3 mil-lion. Although the number ofindividual ﬁnes and settlementsdecreased from 2001, the totaldollar amount paid out increased
signiﬁcantly. This is attributable primar ily to settlements in the United
States. Signiﬁcant ﬁnes and settlements in 2002 included: US$1.55 mil-lion for groundwater contamination near the El Segundo Reﬁnery inCalifornia; US$750,000 for environme ntal violations at upstream opera-
tions in Rangely, Colorado; US$869,992 for environmental violations in
Aneth, Utah, upstream operat ions; and US$250,000 in penalties associated
with a ﬁre at the Aneth gas plant.
In 2002, we also paid 196 ﬁnes or settle ments for noncompliance with
health and safety regulations at our facilities. The total dollar amountassociated with these ﬁnes or settlements was relatively small.Health, Environment, and  
Safety Fines and Settlements*
0.941.44
0.954.28
012345Total paid
(Millionsof $U.S.)
99 00 01 02
Total paid in millions of $U.S. (left scale)
Total number of fines (right scale)Total 
number
of fines
02004006008001000792
519
388
278
*1999 –2000 data are Chevron. 2001 –2002 data 
are ChevronTexaco.Case Study > MTBE Phaseout & Cleanup
(Continued)