2003 ChevronTexaco
Corporate Responsibility UpdateA Message From Our CEO
Our company’s primary obligations are to responsibly supply the energy 
the world needs while delivering the strong ﬁnancial results that our stock-holders expect of us. We are fully committed to doing both. 
Additionally, we recognize that companies like ours have a global reach
and, with that, the opportunity to be a positive force. Recently, there hasbeen an increasing focus on the role of the private sector in supportinginternational development efforts. This is an issue of profound importanceto ChevronTexaco. We operate in some of the poorest parts of the worldand, thus, see daily the devastating effects of poverty. At the same time,the product we provide – energy – can fuel economic and social progress.This gives us a unique opportunity, through the energy we produce, tobeneﬁt not only our company and its stockholders, but also local com-munities and host governments.  
Linked to economic development is the issue of governance. Over the past
few years, there has been a growing recognition of the need to help buildthe capacity of governments in developing countries so they can raise thequality of life for their citizens. The management of revenues in the oil andgas industry has been a central focus of this discussion because of theimportant contribution such revenues can make to resource-rich, develop-ing countries. Our company has supported efforts to bring greater trans-parency in this area. 
Finally, our company also is focused on another key global challenge – 
ﬁnding ways to meet growing energy demand while reducing the environ-mental impacts of energy development and use. 
Supporting Economic Development
Our company’s objectives are tied to economic growth around the globe.However, we will achieve those objectives only if the beneﬁts of growth area positive force for society at large. What must be created is a reinforcingcycle that improves lives, expands markets, and builds safer societies andmore stable governments. 
Toward this end, we are building new types of partnerships aimed at
encouraging both energy development and broad, sustainable economicgrowth. These partnerships bring together the expertise of nongovern-mental and multilateral organizations, ﬁnancial institutions, developmentagencies, other companies and, most important, the local communitieswhere we work. One of our best examples is the Angola Partnership Initiative, a more-
than-US$50 million effort to build human capacity and a higher standardof living for communities across the country. In 2003, more than 660,000Angolans beneﬁted from the agricultural program. Now we are takingsteps to open Angola’s ﬁrst micro-credit bank, launch an enterprisedevelopment center at a local university and create several distance-learning centers. 
Promoting Revenue Transparency
We believe transparency and good governance are the underpinning of
social and economic development and critical to ensuring that the beneﬁtsof that development are widely shared. That is why we are actively workingto encourage greater transparency in the accounting of revenues from oiland natural gas operations. In 2003, we saw remarkable progress in thisarea in Angola and Nigeria, where our company has a major presence. 
In a groundbreaking action, the government of Angola agreed to disclose
the signing and social bonus payments associated with a contract extensionwith our company’s Angolan subsidiary. In Nigeria, we are supporting thegovernment in its efforts to publish a number of key government ﬁnancialindicators, including revenues from the oil and natural gas sector.
Finding Environmental Solutions
One of the greatest challenges our industry faces is the widespread viewthat energy development is at odds with a healthy environment. Of particularconcern is the issue of climate change. We recognize these concerns andare continuing to take steps to address them. At the same time, we areseeking new solutions to another key challenge for our industry: ﬁndingways to safely and reliably supply the energy the developing world needs
to fuel economic development.
To meet those challenges, we are working to minimize the environmental
impacts of our operations today and also are working to advance thepromising cleaner technologies of tomorrow. For example, in 2003, Chevron-Texaco was selected by the U.S. Department of Energy to be part of a team
to showcase the practical applications of hydrogen energy technology.Last year, ChevronTexaco Corporation issued its ﬁrst Corporate Responsibility Report. At that time, 
we presented a comprehensive look at the actions our company is taking globally to address a range
of complex and challenging issues – issues such as human rights, work-force diversity, small businessdevelopment and environmental protection. This is an update to that report. Events of the past yearcontinue to remind us that these challenges are as great as ever and that we live in an interconnectedworld where events in one part of the globe can impact all of us. About This Report
This report is a brief update to ChevronTexaco’s
comprehensive 2002 Corporate ResponsibilityReport. It provides our stakeholders with essen-
tial information on our performance against keycorporate responsibility metrics. It builds on,and is designed to be read in conjunction with,our inaugural 2002 report and demonstrates our ongoing commitment to regular and openreporting on our social, economic and environ-
mental performance. We report here on 2003data and activities. In a small number ofinstances, we mention events that took place in2004 when this helps provide a clearer picture
of our performance. The report focuses on ourowned and operated businesses and does not
address the performance of our suppliers, con-
tractors or partners, unless otherwise noted. 
ChevronTexaco’s next comprehensive Corporate
Responsibility Report will be published in 2005. 
It will cover 2004 performance and will providea detailed discussion of our progress on the fullspectrum of corporate responsibility issues sincethe publication of our inaugural 2002 report. 
We continue to be informed by the Global
Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines and other external reporting frame-works. As we continue our learning and our
efforts to improve the quality and scope of our corporate responsibility reporting, we lookforward to feedback on the content of this andfuture reports. 
Cover photo: “Moving Energy”; time-lapse image
of street lights, taken from a moving car.
We also are working to improve our efﬁciency and reduce emissions of
greenhouse gases. In 2003, our company initiated its ﬁrst third-partyveriﬁcation of greenhouse gas emissions, which has enabled us to set anemissions goal for 2004 with the assurance that the goal is based on soundand robust baseline data. We also continued to promote consistency ingreenhouse gas measurement and reporting in our industry. 
A Year of Progress – But More to Do
We have made progress in some key areas over the past year, and I am
proud to tell you that we received outside recognition for our corporateresponsibility efforts. Employees in our Nigerian afﬁliate we re given the
U.S. Department of State’s 2003 Aw ard for Corporate Excellence for their
sustained efforts to contribute to a higher quality of life in that country.
We also recognize that many of the issues of importance to our company
and our customers, employees, neighbors, partners and investors are long-term, and there is still much to be done. I can assure you thatChevronTexaco people everywhere are committed to continuing our work in these areas and looking for new solutions that will improve the lives of people everywhere we operate. 
Dave O’Reilly
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
We welcome and encourage your feedback at
www.chevrontexaco.com/CR_Report/2003/ ,
where this report, as well as our 2002 CorporateResponsibility Report, can be found. 
12Award for Corporate Excellence. In 2003, our Nigerian afﬁliate received
the U.S. State Department’s Award for Corporate Excellence for itscorporate citizenship activities in Nigeria. Speciﬁc initiatives cited includedthe airlift of more than 2,000 villagers to safety during interethnic andpolitical conﬂicts in the western Niger Delta, a Riverboat Clinic to bringhealthcare to thousands of people in the Niger Delta and ongoing HIV/AIDSprevention efforts in the country.
Safety. 2003 was ChevronTexaco’s safest year ever in terms of overall
recordable incidents. Despite this record, very regrettably we had 12
fatalities. Motor vehicle crashes remain the most frequent cause of death.Our approach to safety is founded on the belief that zero is attainable – as evidenced by the 26 ChevronTexaco units that received our “Zero Is Attainable” award in 2003 – and we will continue to strive to reach our ultimate goal of zero accidents and fatalities. 
HIV/AIDS Initiatives. We continued our efforts to help combat HIV/AIDS.
At the end of 2003, we ﬁnalized a corporatewide HIV/AIDS policy. We alsoannounced a new partnership with the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tubercu-losis and Malaria in Africa. In Angola, we expanded our program to includethe provision of anti-retroviral drugs to ChevronTexaco employees andtheir families. 
Senior-Level Diversity. At the end of 2003, the global representation of
women and non-Caucasian males in senior positions in ChevronTexaco
globally was 19.5 percent, up from 16.7 percent in 2002. We continue tomake progress toward achieving our senior management diversity goals. 
Human Rights. As one of the original signatories to the Global Sullivan
Principles, we have long advocated, supported and demonstrated the pro-
tection of human rights, consistent with the role of business. We remaincommitted to a management approach that enhances the sustainability ofour long-standing results and fully integrates human rights considerationsinto our day-to-day operations. 
Spill Performance. 2003 showed a signiﬁcant performance improvement
from the previous year. The volume of petroleum spilled fell by more than50 percent from the previous year, exceeding our year-over-year target of 
a 20 percent reduction through 2006 and representing less than 20 barrelsspilled per million barrels processed.2003 at a Glance
In 2003, we made steady progress in several key areas of corporate responsibility performance while
continuing to expand our understanding and management of our social, economic and environmentalimpacts. We maintained our focus on exploring new ways to integrate corporate responsibilityconsiderations into existing management systems and enhancing our policies and practices related to human rights and community engagement. During the year, we also expanded our corporateresponsibility reporting to include global data on diversity, national origin and air emissions.
On behalf of ChevronTexaco, CEO Dave O'Reilly receives an Award for Corporate
Excellence from U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell in recognition of the com-pany’s community support activities in Nigeria.
3Climate Change. Finding ways to meet growing energy demand while
reducing long-term growth in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is among
the most critical challenges facing the energy industry. It is a challenge we take seriously as we continue to implement our comprehensive climate
change strategy. Our enterprisewide GHG emissions were approximately 64 million metric tons of CO
2and CO 2equivalents in 2003. In 2003, we also
initiated a third-party veriﬁcation of our GHG emissions and established apreliminary goal of 63 million metric tons for 2004. We also announced thetransfer of ownership of our SANGEA™ Energy and Emissions EstimatingSystem software to the American Petroleum Institute, at no charge, topromote standardization of GHG emissions accounting.
Energy Efﬁciency. We continued to make steady improvements in energy
efﬁciency. In 2003, we achieved our highest efﬁciency level ever, repre-senting a 22 percent decrease in energy consumption per unit of outputsince 1991. 
Advancing Hydrogen Technology. We are part of a team selected by the
U.S. Department of Energy in 2004 to lead a ﬁve-year demonstration andvalidation project designed to showcase practical application of hydrogen
energy technology. Under the project, we intend to provide the design andconstruction of up to six hydrogen fueling stations to be operated primarilyin California. 
Harvard Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative. We announced we
were contributing US$500,000 as a founding sponsor of a major initiative
led by Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Gover nment to enhance
corporate responsibility effectiveness. The initiative, which was ofﬁciallylaunched in March 2004, will marshal resources of business, government,academia, civil society and the media to address some of the world’s mostpressing social, economic and environmental issues.
Organization of American States Award. We were honored by the
Organization of American States in early 2004 for the programs we haveunder way, particularly in Venezuela, to help alleviate poverty in LatinAmerica. 
While we made considerable progress toward our objectives, we also
have an increased appreciation of the challenge of implementing anintegrated, systematic approach to corporate responsibility across the approximately 180 countries in which we operate. We remain committedto achieving the goals we have set out for ourselves and to continuallyimproving our performance in this important area. 
Above, ChevronTexaco is the fifth-largest energy
company in the world, based on market capitali-zation, and conducts business in approximately 180 countries around the world, producing and
transporting crude oil and natural gas, and market-
ing and distributing fuels and other energy pro ducts.
Left, Chuchupa A Platform, Guajira,
offshore Colombia. ChevronTexaco'sactivities in Colombia are focused on the exploration, production andcommercialization of natural gas.4Social Performance
Operating in more than 180 countries worldwide, we recognize that we have the potential to
affect people’s lives in many ways. Throughout our operations, we strive to maximize ourpositive impacts while minimizing any adverse effects. At ChevronTexaco, we believe thatsupplying energy responsibly and reliably is the greatest and most positive contribution thatwe can make to economic development and social progress.
2003 saw signiﬁcant progress for Chevron-
Texaco’s Angola Partnership Initiative, whose
goal is to build on Angola’s human capacity torealize greater economic stability and improved
standard of living for communities across thecountry. The original US$50 million target,announced in November 2002, already has beenexceeded with a commitment of US$25 million
and partner matching of nearly US$43 million in direct and in-kind contributions. 
“An excellent example of how USAID and a
private partner can work together is the workwe are carrying out with ChevronTexaco in
Angola,” says Andrew Natsios, administrator of the United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment (USAID). “At the end of 2004, this initiative will have helped nearly 900,000Angolans.”
Close to 40 percent of currently allocated
funding is going to support agriculturaldevelopment in the Planalto region of Angola,where USAID is ChevronTexaco’s major partner.The Planalto was the region most affected bythe country’s 27 years of civil war, which endedin 2002. Prior to the war, the Planalto was
Angola’s breadbask et and a net food exporter.
Agricultural pr ojects under the initiative assisted
over 660,000 people – either in direct food aid
or training in agricultural practices – in the
course of 2003.
“Investing in agriculture in Angola will have the
largest impact on poverty reduction and providethe most dramatic potential for increasingfamily income,” says Fernando Paiva, Public and Government Affairs manager for Chevron-
Texaco’s Angolan operating unit, Cabinda Gulf
Oil Company.
Additional efforts in 2003 focused on small- and
medium-size business development. Fundingwas committed to support the opening of
Angola’s ﬁrst micro-credit bank, NovoBanco,which will provide banking services and loans to entrepreneurs and small- and medium-sizebusinesses throughout Angola. Plans call for 10 nationwide branches within ﬁve years.
ChevronTexaco’s partners are European de-velopment institutes and the InternationalFinance Corporation, an arm of the World Bank. 
A Center for Enterprise Development at the
Catholic University in Luanda also was approvedand a new Enterprise Development Program, inpartnership with the United Nations DevelopmentProgram, was sanctioned by the Angolan
government. Additionally, under Chevron-Texaco’s partnership with the Global Discovery
Channel’s Education Fund, work was started to
support several distance-learning centers.
During the year, we conducted a stakeholder
analysis, which included interviews with morethan 70 people from development agencies,nongovernmental organizations, governmentagencies and ChevronTexaco employees to get feedback on our project selection criteriaand decision-making processes. Our currentefforts are centered on growing the initiativewhile seeking additional innovative and sus-tainable projects.
Angola Partnership 
Initiative Update
In partnership with USAID, ChevronTexaco is
supporting agricultural development in Angola.Community Engagement
During 2003, we completed a worldwide review of our community
engagement activities. The ﬁndings of this review have helped us begin to develop a more focused strategy that targets our work around keycommunity sectors, improves our internal capability to manage andsupport community programs, and more clearly aligns our communityinitiatives with our corporate responsibility objectives. We also areincreasingly seeking to partner with local, national and internationalorganizations in the common goal of enabling economic development and building human and institutional capacity in the areas where weoperate that are most in need of support.
ChevronTexaco contributes to the communities in which it operates in a
variety of ways, including through the employment it provides, the goods
and services it procures from local businesses, and the taxes it pays. The company also makes community investments in areas ranging fromsupporting education and training programs to helping build localinfrastructure. In 2003, ChevronTexaco made community investmentsaround the world estimated at nearly US$61 million. In many instances, 
we conduct these community programs in close partnership with host
governments, community groups and nongovernmental organizations.ChevronTexaco employees also invest considerable volunteer time in these and other community activities.  See chart
One example of an initiative we have supported is the September 1 1th 
Anti-Bias Project, a joint initiative of the ChevronTexaco Foundation and the National Conference for Community Justice (NCCJ). The ChevronTexacoFoundation’s US$1.5 million pledge of support for the project was one
component of ChevronTexaco’s overall pledge of US$10.5 million forSeptember 1 1 disaster relief. In 2003, NCCJ awarded US$1.5 million ingrants to 19 nonproﬁt organizations throughout the United States to
advance anti-bias efforts. The September 1 1th Anti-Bias Project is designed to identify and support innovative and replicable approaches to address 
the bias, bigotry and racism faced by  those groups and communities that
have experienced heightened discrimination in the wake of the Septem-ber 1 1, 2001 attacks in the United States.  Left, with the help of ChevronTexaco, more
than 1,000 children from low-income familieshave attended programs at the Atyrau SmallAcademy of Arts in Kazakhstan.
This update report provides key social performance
data and information on some of the signiﬁcant
developments since publication of our pr evious
report. In addition to our progress in these key
areas, we continue our work on a wide range ofsocial issues important to ChevronTexaco and ourstakeholders, including supporting human rights,engaging with local communities, and participatingconstructively in the political and policymakingprocess. We will provide coverage of our progresson these and other social issues in our 2004Corporate Responsibility Report.Global Community Investments (2003)
US$million
North America 32.5 
Africa 18.7
Eurasia 4.6 
Latin America 3.2 
Asia-Paciﬁc 1.1 
Middle East 0.4 
Europe 0.4 
Total: 60.9a
a
Above, Gloria Pacheco holds a baby from the
Hogamin Orphanage, to which ChevronTexacoprovides support, in Maracaibo, Venezuela.
Note: Includes ChevronTexaco’s share in Chevron Phillips
Chemical Company, Tengizchevroil joint venture, andKarachaganak Petroleum Operating consortium.
56Health and Safety
Overall, 2003 was our safest year on record, a reﬂection of the hard work
and commitment of thousands of individuals. At the same time, we recog-
nize that we must continue to strive to reach our ultimate goal of zero
accidents.
During the year, we continued our focus on safety and reliability through
the deployment of our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS).Part of our approach is to integrate the management of safety and health
issues into all aspects of our business, including increasing accountabilityfor safety in our performance management processes.
We profoundly regret that 12 people lost their lives in ChevronTexaco work-
related accidents in 2003. Despite achieving a reduction in total fatalities 
in each of the past two years, each fatality represents a human tragedy and a profound loss both to family and to the company. Lives were lost inArgentina, Honduras, Indonesia, Nigeria, Paraguay, Singapore and theUnited States. We are committed to continuing to work within the companyand with our contractors to drive this ﬁgure down to our goal of zero. See chart
Motor vehicle crashes continued to be the No. 1 cause of work-related
fatalities, accounting for four of the 12 deaths. There was an increase from2.94 motor vehicle incidents per million miles driven by employees in 2002to 3.31 in 2003. We believe that part of this increase is due to greaterunderstanding of the need to report all such incidents.  See chart
In 2003, we launched an expanded effort on motor vehicle safety, which
included the establishment of a new network for health, environment andsafety professionals around the world to share ideas and best practices.The efforts also included formal, targeted reviews, which were conductedin areas of high risk or poor performance. These two- to three-day reviewsare conducted by subject matter experts with a track record of good perform-ance in a particular area. This expert team reviews systems, processes,procedures, roles and responsibilities relating to a particular topic. “Journeyplanning” (which proactively identiﬁes and mitigates potential driving risks),defensive driving and other gaps identiﬁed in these reviews are beingaddressed and shared throughout the world to help improve globalperformance. 
In 2003, we made improvements in our Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)
for both employees and contractors, though we fell short of reaching ouraggressive target to reduce the rate by 25 percent from the previous year.Employee TRIR was down from 0.68 recordable incidents per 200,000 workhours in 2002 to 0.60 in 2003. Contractor TRIR fell from 0.74 recordableincidents in 2002 to 0.59 in 2003. Over the past two years, we have seen a30 percent improvement in contractor safety performance.  See chart
Employee lost time injury frequency (LTIF) remained unchanged from 2002,
at 1.26 injuries per million work hours. Contractor LTIF improved consider-ably, from 1.30 injuries per million work hours in 2002 to 0.95 in 2003,which reﬂects our increased focus on contractor safety.  See chartRight, deepsea drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico,
where ChevronTexaco taps into rich oil deposits as far as 100 miles offshore and reaching depths of more than 5,400 feet.
b
d
ecWork-Related Fatalities b
Employees 44210
Contractors 20 14 21 15 12
Total 24 18 23 16 12
1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 and 2003
data are ChevronTexaco.1520
10
5
20 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Motor Vehicle Safety
Motor vehicle crashes per million miles driven 
(company vehicles)c
Employees 2.52 2.99 3.29 2.94 3.31
1999–2000 data are Chevron, 2001 data are combined Chevron
and Texaco, and 2002 and 2003 data are ChevronTexaco.3.04.0
2.0
1.0
20 1999 2000 2001 2002 20037Right, the CABGOC Clinic in Cabinda, Angola, is supported by ChevronTexaco
funding and provides healthcare facilities for ChevronTexaco staff as well asfor the local community.
In 2003, we continued our focus on preventing repetitive stress injury (RSI).
In 1999, RSI accounted for 40 percent of workplace injuries worldwide. In2003, RSI accounted for 25 percent of injuries. Overall, RSI TRIR improved 
10 percent from 2002 to 2003, thanks to the continued implementation of 
a prevention program based on early detection and education. 
HIV/AIDS Initiatives
The global threat posed by HIV/AIDS is one that ChevronTexaco continuedto tackle in 2003. During the year, we completed an internal review of ourworldwide HIV/AIDS initiatives, which resulted in the creation of a corporate-
wide policy. Work is under way to develop the necessary guidance andmaterials to support implementation, which will begin in 2004. 
Key achievements in 2003 include the following:
• We expanded our program in Angola to include the provision of anti-
retroviral drugs to ChevronTexaco employees and their families. We 
designed the program in Angola in partnership with a local hospital sothat it would then be available to the broader community, not just ouremployees.
• ChevronTexaco was one of nine global companies to announce that, 
in partnership with the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis andMalaria and the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, we would use our human capacity, facilities and infrastructure to extend workplaceHIV/AIDS prevention and treatment programs into the communities where we operate. The public–private partnership is designed so that the companies co-invest with public programs, an approach we, andothers, believe offers signiﬁcant additional scope and impact beyondwhat any one entity could do alone. 
• In recognition of his and the company’s commitment to combating
HIV/AIDS, Jay Pryor, the managing director of Chevron Nigeria Limited, was named by Nigerian President Olusegan Obasanjo as co-chairman of
the Nigerian Business Coalition Against HIV/AIDS. 
• ChevronTexaco is a founding corporate sponsor of Trans-Atlantic Partners
Against AIDS (TPAA), an initiative working to bring together the Russianand U.S. governments and private sector to address the fast-growingHIV/AIDS pandemic in Russia and Ukraine. ChevronTexaco participated in, and was the sole corporate sponsor of, TPAA’s ﬁrst Business and LaborSummit. The summit, held in September 2003, brought together govern-ment, business and labor groups. ChevronTexaco has committed itssupport to TPAA’s development of an action plan to address this growingemergency in all parts of Russia, including the energy-producing areas.
Helping to combat HIV/AIDS is one of the clearest examples of how our
long-term business interests and immediate corporate responsibilities areintrinsically linked. While the scale of the task is daunting, ChevronTexaco,in partnership with all sectors, is committed to continuing these efforts,locally and globally, in 2004 and beyond.ChevronTexaco:
Employees 1.04 0.82 0.72 0.68 0.60
ChevronTexaco:
Contractors 1.80 1.08 0.88 0.74 0.59
Benchmark: 
Employees 1.32 1.04 0.93 0.90 0.84
Benchmark: 
Contractors 1.40 1.22 0.90 0.84 0.76
1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 and 2003
data are ChevronTexaco. Data use American Petroleum Institute asindustry benchmark.Total Recordable Injury Rate
Recordable incidents per 200,000 work hoursd
1.52.0
1.0
0.5
20 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
ChevronTexaco:
Employees 1.93 2.00 1.70 1.26 1.26
ChevronTexaco:
Contractors 1.47 1.06 1.37 1.30 0.95
1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 and 2003
data are ChevronTexaco. Lost Time Injury Frequency
Injuries per million work hourse
1.52.0
1.0
0.5
20 1999 2000 2001 2002 20038Employees
ChevronTexaco had 50,582 employees worldwide at the end of 2003. Our
employees are vital stakeholders who are critical to helping our companymeet its obligations to investors, partners, customers and governments. 
To maintain a competitive advantage, we must successfully attract, retain,
and develop both current and future talent. See chart
With this in mind, two focus areas were established for 2003 as we con-
tinued implementation of our global People Strategy: increase diversity incandidates for senior posts and retain top performers while optimizingglobal talent during organizational changes. 
In 2003, a comprehensive global employee survey was developed, which was
conducted in mid-2004. Major ﬁndings from the survey and the company’splans for responding will be outlined in our 2004 Corporate ResponsibilityReport. 
Diversity
In 2003, we continued our long-term focus on creating and supportingdiversity within our work force, with a particular emphasis on increasingdiversity within senior positions. Our aim is for our employees and leadersto reﬂect the diversity of the available work forces in the countries in whichwe operate without limitation by race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, citizenship, age, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status orother status protected by law. 
We continue to seek ways to provide meaningful worldwide employee 
data that respect the global nature of our employee base. As required bylaw, we collect Equal Employment Opportunity data for employees based in the United States. ChevronTexaco U.S. employment data for women andminorities remained similar to 2002. See chart
At the end of 2003, the representation of women and non-Caucasian males
in senior positions in ChevronTexaco globally was 19.5 percent, up from16.7 percent in 2002. We are making steady progress in increasing diversity
at the senior management levels.
In 2003, for the ﬁrst time, we aggregated data on women in mid- and
senior-level positions on a global basis. Globally, women represented 9.7percent of employees at mid-level positions and above at the end of 2003. 
Another area in which we made progress was the percentage of women
hired in the United States. While overall recruitment levels were down in2003, the number of women joining the company increased from 33 per-
cent of new recruits in 2002 to 43 percent in 2003. 
Global Work-Force Development
During the year, we continued our efforts to hire employees from the com-munities in which we operate. At the same time, we worked to provideopportunities for employees to gain work experience outside their homecountries. This is part of our ongoing strategy to beneﬁt from the diversityand expertise of a truly global work force, as well as contribute to theeconomies in which we work. 
fGeographic Breakdown of ChevronTexaco
Employees (2003)
North America 45% 
Asia-Paciﬁc 24% 
Africa 15% 
Europe/Middle East 9% 
South America 7% f
Equal Employment Opportunity (2003)
ChevronTexaco U.S. employees (%)g
34.8Minorities among total employees
30.2Women among total employees
23.1Minorities among ofﬁcials and managers
24.1Women among ofﬁcials and managers
24.3Minorities among professionals
31.0Women among professionals
01 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 g9Left, Marty Gilles (center), Hawaii Refinery Manager, discusses a review of plant
operation during a field walk.
In 2003, for the ﬁrst time, we collected national origin data on a global
basis. At the end of the year, approximately 96 percent of ChevronTexaco’semployees were working within their country of origin. Outside the UnitedStates, around 43 percent of senior-level positions are held by employeesworking within their country of origin. 
While we have begun tracking this data on a global level, we believe that
hiring and developing local employees is, inherently, an issue best managedat the local level. Many of our business units set and measure performanceagainst speciﬁc work-force composition objectives. For example: 
Angola: In ChevronTexaco’s Angolan subsidiary, the percentage of Angolan
national employees rose from 85 percent in 2002 to 86 percent in 2003. At the professional and supervisory level, the ﬁgure rose from 64 percent to 67 percent in the same period. The company continues to work towardits target to have Angola nationals represent 80 percent of its supervisoryand professional staff in Angola by the end of 2006.
Indonesia: In ChevronTexaco’s Indonesian upstream subsidiary, at the end
of 2003, 99 percent of employees were Indonesian nationals. At the seniorlevel, 74 percent of employees were Indonesian.
Kazakhstan: In Kazakhstan, approximately 80 percent of employees of
Tengizchevroil (TCO), ChevronTexaco’s limited partnership, were Kazakh
citizens in 2003, up from 77 percent in 2002. By the end of 2005, TCO’s goal is to have Kazakh nationals represent 82 percent of its work force.
Latin America: In 2003, around 90 percent of employees in Chevron-
Texaco’s upstream Latin American Business Unit were Latin American
nationals, roughly the same as in 2002. The business unit continues to aim toward its goal of increasing the number of nationals in senior-levelpositions by 10 percent by the end of 2004. The business unit also con-tinues toward its goal of increasing the number of Latin American nationalsworking on assignments outside their home countries by 10 percent by the
end of 2004. 
Saudi Arabia: Nearly 90 percent of Saudi Arabian Texaco’s (SAT) approxi-
mately 650 employees are Saudi nationals. In 2003, SAT received the FirstClass Award of the Prince Nayef National Awards in recognition of itsefforts to hire and train Saudi employees.  
Above, the diversity and talent of ChevronTexaco’s
global work force is integral to success. During2003, we continued our focus on hiring employees
from the communities in which we operate.10Economic Performance
In this section, we focus on the issue of procurement and, in particular, our
supplier diversity, small business development and local content programs.In 2003, we spent approximately US$18 billion globally on goods and serv-ices from external contractors and suppliers. On a local level, contractingwith small, locally owned businesses and, in the United States, minority-and women-owned businesses, is one of the important ways we can contributeto the economic development of the communities in which we operate.
U.S. Small Business Development and Supplier Diversity
In the United States, ChevronTexaco’s Small Business/Supplier DiversityProgram continued its efforts to provide opportunities, contracts and out-
reach assistance to small, and minority- and women-owned businesses
across the country.  See chart
In 2003, we spent more than US$1.3 billion with small business suppliers 
in the United States. This represents 27 percent of total goods and servicesspending and exceeds our 25 percent small business spending goal. 
During the year, we also spent approximately US$223 million with women-
owned suppliers, which represents nearly 5 percent of total spend, and
approximately US$202 million with minority-owned suppliers, which repre-sents slightly more than 4 percent. In 2004, we have aggressive plans toreach our 5 percent contracting goal for each. 
Additional highlights from 2003 include:
• introduction into the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council’s 
Elite 1 1, an honor we also have achieved in previous years;
• receiving an Outstanding Rating for small business contracting and
development from the U.S. Department of Defense, the highest ratingawarded by this agency for contracting;
• receiving the Corporation of the Year award for minority business
contracting and development from the Louisiana Minority BusinessDevelopment Council.
Local Content
Outside the United States, we continued our “local content” efforts 
to source from and assist small, locally owned businesses. Many businessunits have programs that not only administer the contracts with localsuppliers, but also provide training and other services to help build anddevelop those businesses. As a commercial enterprise, we have a responsibility
to deliver strong ﬁnancial performance, thuscreating value for our stockholders. At the sametime, we recognize that we can, and should, createbroader economic value for our stakeholders andthat we do so in a variety of ways.
Small business 840 984 1,015 1,364 1,310
Women-owned
business enterprise 244 190 178 212 223
Minority-owned
business enterprise 216 121 229 209 202
1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 and 2003
data are ChevronTexaco.U.S. Small Business/Supplier 
Diversity Expenditure
US$millionh
9001,200
600
300
20 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003h
Top, Argenis Solarte, ChevronTexaco employee 
on Platform LL-652, located in Lake Maracaibo,Venezuela. Bottom, workers at the Tengiz oil
field, Kazakhstan.From supporting bakeries to auto repair shops,
ChevronTexaco’s small business developmentprograms are an integral element of itsKazakhstan operations.  
Revenue Transparency
We view transparency and good governance 
as critical underpinnings of social and economicdevelopment. In 2003, we continued our efforts to promote and support increased revenuetransparency in the oil and gas industry, includingreafﬁrming our support for the Extractive Industries
Transparency Initiative. We continue to support
efforts that are voluntary, inclusive of hostgovernments and honor the sanctity of contracts. 
Highlights of our activities include the following: 
• We supported Nigerian President Olusegun
Obasanjo’s announcement in November 2003that Nigeria intended to publish a number of key government ﬁnancial indicators, including
revenues received from the oil and gas sector.
Chevron Nigeria Limited participates in aNigerian government working group that isstudying how to launch this effort.
• We worked constructively with the Angolan
government in advance of the 2004 announce-ment that the Angola Block 0 concession held by ChevronTexaco’s wholly owned Angolan sub-
sidiary had been extended to ChevronTexaco by the government of Angola and national oil
company, Sonangol. The result was a ground-breaking public announcement by the Angolangovernment and Sonangol of the US$210 millionsigning bonus and an additional US$80 millionsocial bonus, part of which will be targetedspeciﬁcally at Cabinda Province, paid by theassociation partners under terms of the exten-sion agreement.In 2003, Chevron Nigeria Limited, working with the U.S. Small Business
Administration and the U.S.–Nigeria Development Institute, helped set up a Business Information Center in Nigeria to provide training and supportto local businesses. 
Also during the year, ChevronTexaco sponsored two international supplier
forums, one in Nigeria and one in Kazakhstan. The forums were designedto educate ChevronTexaco’s international suppliers about our local contentgoals and to forge connections, where possible, between our local andinternational suppliers to help grow the local businesses.
Highlights from several major business units, which together represent 
a considerable portion of ChevronTexaco’s global procurement spending, in 2003 include:
Angola: ChevronTexaco’s subsidiary spent US$1 77 million with Angolan
suppliers in 2003. The unit has established a target to increase expenditureswith local businesses by 15 percent year over year.
Indonesia: ChevronTexaco’s Indonesian business unit spent US$650 million
with Indonesian suppliers at the local level and another US$6 million withIndonesian companies at the national level. At the local level, 99 percent of total spending on goods and services was with Indonesian companies. 
Kazakhstan: ChevronTexaco’s limited partnership Tengizchevroil (TCO)
exceeded its 39 percent local content goal, reaching 42 percent in 2003.
This represents US$564 million spent with Kazakh suppliers, up fromUS$415 million in 2002.
Thailand: ChevronTexaco’s business unit spent US$120 million in 2003 with
local suppliers in Thailand, representing 30 percent of total spend on goods 
and services, up from 25 percent in 2000.
Venezuela: Two of ChevronTexaco’s operations in Venezuela (the Boscan
Field and LL-652, a ChevronTexaco-operated oil ﬁeld in Lake Maracaibo)together spent US$120 million with local suppliers. This represents an 80 percent local content rate for goods and a 98 percent rate for services in 2003.
2003 was one of ChevronTexaco’s
best years ever in terms ofﬁnancial performance. Detailed
information on the company’sperformance can be found in
our corporate Annual Report ,
available on our Web site at
www.chevrontexaco.com . 
1112Environmental Performance
Environmental Management
Our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) is the foundation
for integrating environmental issues into our business operations. Deploy-
ment of OEMS, initiated following the merger of Chevron and Texaco in2001, continued during 2003. In the ﬁrst part of the year, we revised our
OEMS internal review protocol. While still designed to assess our actualperformance, the revised protocol now has increased focus on assessing the
functionality of the underlying management system. During the remainderof 2003, we conducted 19 formal internal reviews using the new protocol. 
Energy Efﬁciency
Improved energy efﬁciency within our operations clearly demonstrates the
link between business and environmental success. Energy efﬁciency, whichapplies to all areas of our business, remained a key focus in 2003, with twomilestones achieved.
First, we met our 2003 energy efﬁciency target, with the ChevronTexaco
Energy Index (CTEI) ending the year at 78. This represents total energyconsumption for the assets we operate of approximately 880 trillion Btus in 2003. ChevronTexaco established the CTEI in 1991 to track its energyusage on a consistent basis. The CTEI initially included only our NorthAmerican operations, but has since been expanded globally. 
Our 2003 performance represents our highest efﬁciency level to date and 
a 22 percent decrease in energy consumption per unit of output since weestablished the CTEI. It also produced a saving of around US$28 million overthe course of the year. For 2004, our CTEI target remains constant at 78.
Second, we met our objective to complete the full integration of assets into
the CTEI in 2003 by incorporating the remaining international upstreamand legacy Caltex and Texaco assets into the index. 
Climate Change
Climate change is a critical issue that ChevronTexaco is taking seriously.ChevronTexaco’s four-pronged climate change strategy comprises:
•reducing emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) and increasing energy
efﬁciency;
•investing in research, development and improved technology;
•pursuing business opportunities in promising, innovative energy
technologies;•supporting ﬂexible and economically sound policies and mechanisms that
protect the environment.
In addition, we continue to integrate analysis of GHG emissions into the
planning of all major capital projects.
Having completed our ﬁrst post-merger GHG emissions inventory in 2002,
we engaged KPMG and URS to perform an independent review of the GHG
data quality for both 2002 and 2003. This process will enable us to set GHGemissions goals with the assurance that the goals are based on sound androbust baseline data. The KPMG/URS report is available on our Web site at
www.chevrontexaco.com/greenhousegas/ . 
During 2003, we also revised our emissions inventory protocol to align with
the emerging guidelines described in the International Petroleum IndustryEnvironmental Conservation Association, American Petroleum Institute, and International Association of Oil and Gas Producers report entitled“Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions.”
As a result of revisions to our emissions inventory protocol and data
adjustments arising from the review of our data, we are restating our 2002emissions numbers. We also are reporting our 2003 numbers for the ﬁrsttime. For 2003, ChevronTexaco’s total net emissions were approximately 64 million metric tons of CO
2equivalents. This is based on ChevronTexaco’s
equity share in those businesses and operations in which it has ﬁnancialinterests and over which it either has operational control or which reportGHG emissions using a compatible protocol. In 2003, 89 per-cent of CO
2
equivalent emissions were from CO 2and approximately 1 1 percent from
methane, with trace amounts of nitrous oxide. 
In 2003, ChevronTexaco’s oil and gas production, as well as reﬁnery input,
declined over the previous year, in part due to asset dispositions. We madeimprovements in energy efﬁciency, though total energy consumption in-creased due to a variety of factors, including increases in steamﬂooding.An increase in net imported electricity, as well as slight increases in ﬂaringand venting, also contributed to the rise of emissions in 2003. Altogether,these factors contributed with an increase of about 500,000 metric tons ofCO
2equivalents in 2003 as compared with our restated 2002 net emissions 
of approximately 63 million metric tons.  See chart
ChevronTexaco’s preliminary corporatewide emissions goal for 2004 is 63
million metric tons of CO 2equivalents. This projected slight decrease fromAt ChevronTexaco, we regard the responsible and reliable supply of energy as our core
objective. We view protection of the environment as an integral part of that objective. In practical terms, this means working to minimize the environmental impacts of our existing operations and products, as well as devising new ways to meet future energy 
demand while protecting and preserving the environment for future generations. 
i2003 will be achieved primarily through divestitures of some production
facilities – while maintaining or growing production in other parts of thebase business – as well as through increased efﬁciency. 
In June 2004, ChevronTexaco announced the transfer of ownership of its
SANGEA™ Energy and Emissions Estimating System software, at no charge,
to the American Petroleum Institute (API) to promote the standardization ofGHG emissions accounting. API will be able to make the SANGEA™ softwareavailable without charge to the worldwide energy industry.
ChevronTexaco continues to advocate for consistency in GHG emissions
measurement and reporting across the oil and gas industry. For example, we played a leading role in helping shape the “Petroleum Industry Guide-
lines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions” and we have led the APIGreenhouse Gas Emissions Estimating Work Group for the past two years.
ChevronTexaco personnel also have been selected as lead author and
review editor in two scientiﬁc review processes by the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), including one on the revisions of national
emissions inventory methodologies. The review results will have a signiﬁcantimpact on the accurate accounting and reporting process for greenhousegas emissions by national governments. 
CO2Sequestration
ChevronTexaco views CO 2capture and storage, or sequestration in geo-
logic formations, as a vital technology to ensure a safe, reliable supply ofenergy to meet the world’s needs. Being a leader in CO
2sequestration is an
essential element of ChevronTexaco’ s medium- to long-term GHG emissions
management strategy. This focus on CO 2sequestration reﬂects our prag-
matic, action-oriented approach to advancing energy technologies. Itemphasizes ﬁnding new ways to produce cleaner, lower-carbon energyfrom fossil fuels today, while at the same time developing renewableenergy and infrastructure technology necessary for an emerging hydrogeneconomy in the long term. 
We participated in several major ongoing CO
2sequestration initiatives
during 2003 with the aim of building our own knowledge and advancingthe technology associated with this pr actice. In these initiatives, Chevr on-
Texaco contributes signiﬁcant funds, people and other resources to advance
the state of the art of this promising technology, which we believe will be a
key component of a smooth transition to a low-carbon future. 
In 2003, ChevronTexaco continued to demonstrate the effectiveness of 
CO
2injection technologies at our ongoing enhanced oil recovery project in
Rangely, Colorado. We have been injecting CO 2at this site since 1986, with
an estimate of more than 19 million metric tons of CO 2equivalents safely
stored underground.
The ChevronTexaco-operated Gorgon Project also continued to move forward
during the year. In this gas development project offshore Western Australia,ChevronTexaco and the project’s partners are committed to a comprehen-sive greenhouse gas management strategy that could include the reinjection
of 2 million to 3 million metric tons of CO
2per year, subject to technical
feasibility studies that are now ongoing.The KPMG/URS independent assurance report on ChevronTexaco’s
2002 and 2003 GHG data, and the company’s plans for improving
the reliability and veriﬁability of the data, are available on ourWeb site at www.chevrontexaco.com/greenhousegas/.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions *
Millions of metric tons CO 2equivalentsi
2002
2003
By sector: 2002 2003
Upstream 36.5 37.0
Downstream 24.3 23.7
Other 2.6 3.2
Total 63.4 63.9
By type: 2002 2003 †
Direct 62.8 62.6
Indirect 1.5 2.1
Grid Credits (0.9) (0.9)
Total 63.4 63.963.4
63.9
*“Other” includes acid gas
removal, coke combustion,
crude oil transport, crude oilstorage, ﬂashing, fugitives,glycol dehydrators, indirectemissions and sulfur recovery. Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Millions of metric tons CO 2equivalents
Combustion 39 (61%)
Flaring and venting 16 (25%)
Other* 9 (14%)j
*Emissions totals exclude our interests in Chevron Phillips
Chemical Company, Dynegy Inc. and Caltex Australia, entitiesover which we do not have full operational control and whichdo not follow our corporate GHG inventory protocol or acompatible protocol.
In 2002, ChevronTexaco had equity share emissions (as
estimated and provided by the operator) of about 3 millionmetric tons of CO
2equivalents from Chevron Phillips Chemical
Company and about 1 million metric tons of CO 2equivalents
from the Caltex Australia reﬁneries. The totals include directemissions, indirect emissions and grid credits. Indirect emis-sions account for emissions associated with electricity andsteam imported by ChevronTexaco, less credits for emissionsassociated with electricity and steam exported by Chevron-
Texaco. Grid credits account for the fact the electricity e xported
by certain ChevronTexaco facilities is produced more efﬁciently
than the regional or national electricity grid. “Other” includesemissions from the shipping, coal and power businesses as
well as from administrative and corporate services.
†Due to rounding, individual ﬁgures do not sum to the total.
1314Flaring
We continue to pursue activities to reduce the ﬂaring
or venting of the gas that is unavoidably produced inassociation with oil. Such reductions will make a sig-
niﬁcant contribution to cutting our GHG emissions, asﬂaring and venting accounted for approximately 25percent of our 2003 total GHG emissions. See chart
In 2003, work was initiated or continued on several
major capital projects that incorporate ﬂaring re-duction or elimination elements. For example, theUS$1.9 billion Sanha Condensate Project in Angolaand the planned Angola Liqueﬁed Natural Gas Proj-ect are both part of our commitment to elimi nate
routine ﬂaring from our Angolan operations. The West
Africa Gas Pipeline will move natural gas, which pre-viously would have been ﬂared, from Nigeria intoTogo, Benin and Ghana. In addition, expansion of 
the existing Escravos Gas Plant and a gas-to-liquidsproject at Escravos are being evaluated as a meansof further reducing ﬂaring.
We also continued to support the World Bank Global
Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership (GGFRP), throughour role on the steering committee and providing aseconded employee to the partnership team. 
Looking ahead, we anticipate ﬁnalizing a new gas-
flaring standard for our international upstreamoperations. The standard, which will be aligned withthe voluntary one recently proposed by the WorldBank GGFRP , aims to eliminate continual venting and ﬂaring.We also continued to actively participate in the following CO
2sequestration
initiatives:
• the Global CO 2Capture Project, a joint industry–government initiative
supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, the European Commission,the Norwegian government and eight member companies. Together,supporters of the project have contributed US$24 million in ﬁnancialsupport and an additional US$26 million of in-kind support. The projecthas identiﬁed technologies that can reduce the cost of capturing CO
2for
sequestration by over 50 percent compared with existing technologies.The project also works to identify methods for ensuring storage integrityand addressing regulatory and public policy issues related to seques-tration technology.
• the Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum, a multigovernmental forum
consisting of 1 7 national governments or intergovernmental bodies suchas the European Commission with an agreed vision of developing anddeploying CO
2capture and storage technology. ChevronTexaco staff
provide expert input into the policy development aspects crucial to facili-tating the necessary monitoring, veriﬁcation and public acceptance of thedeployment of CO
2capture and geologic storage technology.
• the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Special Report on CO 2
Capture and Storage. ChevronTexaco staff appointed a review editor in
this scientiﬁc review process to determine the latest status of numerousaspects of this technology development, further formulating a policy-relevant basis for decision-makers to review, approve and deploy widely
this type of technology. 
• the Cooperative Research Centre for Greenhouse Gas Technologies in
Australia. This joint industry–government ef fort resear ches the logistic,
technical, ﬁnancial and environmental issues associated with the develop-ment of CO
2capture technology and with storing industrial carbon dioxide
emissions in deep geologic formations.
• the GEOSEQ project, a joint venture between three U.S. national laborato-
ries and the Weyburn CO 2Project, an International Energy Agency, U.S. and
Canadian government–industry initiative.
Air Emissions
ChevronTexaco continues to work to reduce the emissions produced by ouroperations. For several years, we have collected data on the emissions ofnitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and volatile organic compounds(VOCs) from our reﬁning operations in the United States. In 2003, for theﬁrst time, we estimated the global emissions of NOx and SOx for all ouroperations worldwide. These emissions were estimated using methodsdeveloped by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the AmericanPetroleum Institute and other sources.
Globally, our 2003 emissions of NOx and SOx were estimated to be approx-
imately 126,000 metric tons of NOx and 141,000 metric tons of SOx.
Previous page (left), employees of Brazil’s Society for Wildlife Research and
Environmental Education monitor the planting of seedlings in a ﬁeld as partof a reforestation project. Previous page (right), inspecting tree plantings inthe Lower Mississippi River Valley.
Left, Manuel Aprieta Vargas, platform supervisor on Platform Chuchupa A
offshore Colombia.
j
Offshore Drilling Discharge Standard 
In 2003, we ﬁnalized our International OffshoreDrilling Discharge standard, which prohibits thedischarge of oil-based mud and cuttings. Wherenonoil-based muds are used, the standard requires
drilling projects to complete a risk-based assessment
that incorporates a number of site-speciﬁc factors,including water depth, currents and proximity tosensitive habitat, to minimize the impacts of our
operations on the environment. It also requires that
all offshore drilling rigs using nonwater-baseddrilling ﬂuids be equipped with advanced cuttings-cleaning systems. 15Advancing Energy
Technologies
Advancing energy technologies in ways that 
are market-driven and economically sound is 
an integral part of responsibly supplying energy. As part of our comprehensive energy develop-ment strategy, we are actively pursuing invest-ments in alternative and renewable technologies,energy efﬁciency, cleaner fuels, gas-to-liquids,and a variety of other promising, practicalenergy solutions.
Our approach to managing technology is focus-
ed on deploying technologies to enhance the
performance of our core hydr ocarbon business-
es while developing technologies to expandbusiness opportunities. Because hydrocarbonswill continue to play the central role in energysupply for the next several decades, we view
ﬁnding ways to produce cleaner, more efﬁ cient
energy from oil and natural gas as one of ourmost important responsibilities.
Our approach is founded on the belief that new
technologies and energy sources must be ableto compete in the marketplace, and that suchtechnological investments must be consideredin the context of our broad energy developmentstrategy. ChevronTexaco’s objective is to main-tain a balanced, economically sound energy
portfolio while continually working to minimizethe environmental impacts of energy develop-ment and use.
Highlights of our recent activities include:Managing Technology. In 2003, we merged 
our formerly separate technology groups into an enterprisewide Energy Technology Company
(ETC), creating an organization unique in ourindustry and one that delivers integratedtechnology solutions to our core businesssectors. ETC is making key advances in areasincluding reservoir management, deepwaterexploration and production, seismic imaging,
clean fuel production, and next-generation gas-to-liquids conversion technology.
Hydrogen. ChevronTexaco Technology Ventures,
a wholly owned unit within ChevronTexaco,continued to explore new, advanced energytechnologies, with a particular focus on hydro-gen. In 2003, Technology Ventures was awardeda cost-shared grant of approximately US$5.9million by the U.S. Department of Energy toexplore new hydrogen fuel-processing appli-
cations as part of a larger research and develop-ment initiative.
In early 2004, ChevronTexaco and its project
partners, Hyundai Motor Company and UTC FuelCells, were selected by the U.S. Department ofEnergy to lead a ﬁve-year “Controlled HydrogenFleet and Infrastructure Demonstration andValidation Project,” designed to showcase
practical application of hydrogen energytechnology. Under the project, ChevronTexacointends to provide the design and constructionof up to six hydrogen fueling stations to beoperated primarily in California. 
ChevronTexaco also announced an innovative
cooperative agreement with the Alameda-Contra Costa Transit District (AC Transit, Oakland,California) to build a state-of-the-art hydrogenenergy station in Oakland that will producehydrogen fuel for fuel cell ﬂeets. The station will have the additional capability of utilizingexcess hydrogen production to generate high-
quality electrical power from a stationary fuel cell.Emerging Energy. ChevronTexaco Technology
Ventures formed a new Emerging Energies
group tasked with identifying and assessingstrategic and commercial opportunities to advanceor apply a wide variety of energy technologies,such as solar, wind, biomass and geothermal.Additionally, ChevronTexaco’s Venture Capitalgroup invests in early-stage technologycompanies whose innovations could beneﬁtChevronTexaco's existing businesses or lead to new growth opportunities.  
Distributed Generation and Integrated
Energy Solutions. Chevron Energy Solutions
(CES), a wholly owned unit within Chevron-Texaco, acquired Energy Masters International
and Viron Energy Services. CES provides, amongother services, energy conservation, efﬁciencyand power generation improvements to edu-
cational institutions, government agencies, andcommercial and industrial businesses aroundthe world. CES also installs distributed or back-
up generation, including proven alternative
technologies such as fuel cells and solar power.In addition to helping schools and government
institutions improve energy efﬁciency and reduce
energy costs, CES projects for its clients reducedCO
2emissions by 235,000 metric tons in 2003. 
In early 2004, CES was awarded contracts from
the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S.Department of Energy to engineer and installfacility improvements at three military bases.The improvements are expected to save U.S.taxpayers approximately US$150 million andreduce GHG emissions by nearly 1.4 million metric
tons over the course of the 18-year contract.Artist's rendering of an innovative 
hydrogen energy station planned for Oakland,California, in a cooperative agreement betweenChevronTexaco Technology Ventures and theAlameda-Contra Costa Transit District. Preliminary data on global VOC emissions have been collected and are
currently being validated internally. These data will appear in our 2004Corporate Responsibility Report. See chart
While nonGHG air emissions are best managed at the business unit,
country or facility level, in developing our global benchmark we aim toaddress these emissions in a more systematic and measurable way acrossall our operations. Within our U.S. reﬁning operations, our installation ofcontrol technology in many facilities in recent years has resulted in a con-tinued reduction in both NOx and SOx emissions, while in the last year, VOC emissions remained roughly constant. On a normalized, per-barrels-of-reﬁned-product-produced basis, emissions of NOx, SOx and VOC stayedroughly ﬂat from 2002 to 2003.  See chart
Environmental Expenditures, Fines and Litigation
Environmental Expenditures
Using deﬁnitions and guidelines established by the American PetroleumInstitute, and as we reported to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Com-mission, we estimate our worldwide environmental spending in 2003 atUS$1.1 billion for ChevronTexaco consolidated companies. Included in these
expenditures are US$305 million of environmental capital expenditures and
US$820 million of costs associated with the control and abatement ofhazardous substances and pollutants from our ongoing operations.
Environmental Fines and Settlements
At times in 2003, our facilities did not meet all governmental environmental,health and safety requirements, resulting in ﬁnes and penalties. We arecommitted to improving and learning from our mistakes. In 2003, we paidnearly US$4.7 million in environmental, and health and safety ﬁnes andsettlements. See chart
The number of such settlements rose from 278 in 2002 to 470 in 2003,
mainly due to an increase in health and safety ﬁnes in the United Statesand Europe. Health and safety settlements accounted for 375 of the total,representing some US$1 million, while the remaining 95 ﬁnes and settle-
ments were for environmental issues accounting for US$3.7 million.
The most signiﬁcant expense in 2003 was US$2.86 million, which related to
the settlement of two lawsuits that alleged violations of the U.S. Clean WaterAct in the Permian Basin. As part of the settlement, ChevronTexaco agreedto equipment upgrades, which accounted for the majority of the expense. 
In 2003, as part of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA)
Petroleum Reﬁnery Initiative to reduce air emissions from the nation’s
reﬁneries, Chevr on U.S.A. Inc. entered into a voluntary agreement with the
EPA and the states of Hawaii, Mississippi and Utah and the Bay AreaQuality Management District in California. It is estimated the agreementwill require the company to spend up to US$275 million to install andimplement innovative control technologies to reduce emissions at itsreﬁneries. The company also will pay a US$3.5 million civil penalty and
spend more than US$4 million on further emissions controls and otherenvironmental projects in communities around the company’s reﬁneries.While the company disagrees with the underlying allegations made 
Left, Caspian Pipeline Consortium’s (CPC) terminal, Novorossiysk, Russia. 
The US$2.6 billion CPC project consists of a 935-mile pipeline.
Right, a supply vessel makes a delivery to Genesis Platform in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico. Far right, Allen Hein, maintenance team leader,communicates with a co-worker. 
Global NOx and SOx Emissions (2003)
Metric tonsk
NOx
SOx
NOx SOx
Upstream 100,046 1 1 1,050
Downstream 13,109 29,010
Other 12,475 1,386
Total 125,630 141,446
2003 is the ﬁrst year that total SO xand NO xdata
were collected at the corporate level.
U.S. Reﬁning Emissions
Metric tonsl
NOx 11,955 1 1,733 1 1,358 8,213 7,990
SOx 10,745 1 2,41 1 1 1,295 1 1,356 10,501
VOC 10,105 9,326 7,793 8,535 8,5556,0008,000
4,000
2,000
20 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
10,00012,000
Metric tons per million barrels processed
NOx 39 35 33 24 24
SOx 35 37 32 33 31
VOC 30 28 22 25 25
The 2003 data contain 2002 data for the Hawaii Reﬁnery and 2002
VOC data for the Pascagoula Reﬁnery.3040
20
10
20 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003125,630
141,446k
l
magainst it in the case, it believes that the voluntary settlement provided 
a resolution that emphasizes environmental beneﬁt and is consistent withthe company’s ongoing work to control emissions. 
Litigation in Ecuador
ChevronTexaco remains the subject of litigation in Ecuador stemming fromthe involvement of a subsidiary in an oil producing consortium from 1964 to1992. The lawsuit, which alleges environmental damage, is now before a
court in the Oriente r egion of Ecuador. The company is vigorously challenging
the lawsuit on the grounds that Texaco P etroleum Company (TexPet) satisﬁed
all its obligations and commitments and was released by the governmentof Ecuador from all claims and obligations after TexPet completed a US$40million remediation program in 1998. In addition, the company maintainsthat the state oil company should be the responsible party since it was themajority partner in the consortium and has owned and operated the oilﬁelds exclusively for more than a decade. The trial commenced in October2003, and no decision is expected before the end of 2004.
Spills
Our continued efforts to reduce oil and chemical spills in 2003 resulted in 
a signiﬁcant performance improvement from the previous year. The volumeof oil released in spills, equivalent to 26,540 barrels, fell by more than 50percent, exceeding our year-over-year target of a 20 percent reduction. Atthe same time, the number of petroleum spills fell from 1,502 incidents to1,145, a reduction of 24 percent in a year. Less than 1 percent of the spilled
oil went to water and a little less than half of the total spilled volume wasrecovered immediately. A single pipeline spill in Texas accounted for 10,871
barrels, or 41 per cent of the 2003 total spill volume. This spill resulted from 
a mechanical failure of a small ﬁtting.  See chart 
In 2003, our chemical spill performance improved in terms of the number 
of spills, down to 28 from 75 the previous year, but the volume of chemicalsinvolved in the spills rose to 708 kilograms from 135 kilograms in 2002. 
Our North American upstream operations have been proactive in spill pre-
vention, holding their second annual Oil Spill Prevention Forum in 2003.This forum, attended by more than 75 senior managers; operations staff;engineers; and health, environment and safety professionals, focused onthe sharing and adoption of successful practices and technologies. OutsideNorth America, the company also has undertaken a concerted effort to im-prove spill performance – and is seeing signiﬁcant positive results. Forexample, in 2000, Saudi Arabian Texaco (SAT), together with its partners,
formed a team tasked with reducing oil spills. Between 1997 and 2003, SAT reduced the volume of oil spilled at the Wafra Field in the Partitioned
Neutral Zone by 95 percent and the number of spills by 67 percent. Thisdramatic improvement was accomplished through an aggressive inspectionprogram using state-of-the-art techniques, including Magnetic Flux Leakageand Guided Wave Ultrasonic detection to assess ﬂow-line conditions.
We remain committed to achieving world-class performance by 2006, 
which for us translates into a continued target of 20 percent year-over-yearreduction in volume of petroleum spilled.Environmental, and Health and Safety Fines
and Settlements
m
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Total paid (US$million) 0.94 1.44 0.95 4.28 4.69
Total number of ﬁnes 792 519 38 82 7 8 470
1999–2000 data are Chevron. 2001–2003 data are ChevronTexaco.
Volume of spills 
(barrels) 164,686 34,460 54,834 54,696 26,540
Volume recovered 
(barrels) –  – –  – 48,348 27,805 10,659
Number of spills 2,169 1,553 1,428 1,502 1,145
1999–2001 data are combined Chevron and Texaco. 2002 and 2003
data are ChevronTexaco. Prior to 2001, volume recovered was nottracked at the corporate level.Petroleum Spills n
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
120,000160,000
80,000
40,000
20 
“We recognize that many of the
issues of importance to ourcompany and our stakeholdersare long-term, and there is stillmuch to be done. I can assureyou that ChevronTexaco people
everywhere are committed tocontinuing our work in theseareas and looking for newsolutions that will improve thelives of people everywhere.”
Dave O’Reilly
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcern
17ChevronTexaco Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon RoadSan Ramon, CA 94583-2324
www.chevrontexaco.com©2 0 04 
ChevronTexaco CorporationAll rights reserved
913-0386A 25M 9/04This report is printed using 
soy-based ink on ForestStewardship Council-certiﬁedMonadnock Astrolite PC100,which is composed of 100percent post-consumer recycled paper and is proc-
essed chlorine-free.