)''-:figfiXk\I\jgfej`Y`c`kpI\gfik
6 Performance Overview
8 Priorities, Progress and Plans10 An Interview With Our Vice ChairmanINTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
1 Welcome2 A Message From Our CEO3 Chevron at a Glance4 How We Conduct Our Business
Above: Chevron’s geothermal operations in Salak, Indonesia, supply renewable energy to the state electric utility PT. Perusahaan Listri k Negara. 
On the cover: A weaver’s hands are at work at Putri Tujuh Weaving, a small business in Dumai, Indonesia. PT. Chevron Pacific Indonesia (CPI) h as been assisting
this business since 2001 with financial support for building renovation, materials and equipment, and technical training. Putri Tujuh is one of several local
busine sses CPI supports.128 Introduction
30 Climate Change33 Renewable Energy35 Environmental Management39 About This Report39 Glossary40 GRI and API/IPIECA IndexSOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
12 Introduction
14 Global Strategic Workforce Development16 Stakeholder Engagement18 Health and Safety21 Supply Chain Management
22 Community Engagement25 Human Rights26 Angola Case Study
Welcome to our fifth Corporate Responsibility Report. It contains
descriptions of new and ongoing socioeconomic and environmental
performance and related data. The achievements, goals and challenges
included here reflect our belief that our business success depends equally 
on outstanding results and how we achieve those results. Both are guided by our vision, as described in The Chevron Way, to be theglobal energy
company most admired for its people, partnership and performance. 
213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 12
2INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
A Message From Our CEO
The men and women of Chevron, our “human energy,” have
a pioneering, ingenious and collaborative spirit that enablesthe company to succeed. They understand the importance 
of energy to global economic growth and human progress
and are committed to securing the energy the world needsthrough innovation and value creation. They are also themeans by which we integrate corporate responsibility intoour operations worldwide. 
Chevron continued to deliver energy safely and reliably 
in 2006. We posted strong financial results and earnedattractive returns for our stockholders. Our 2006 AnnualReport, titled Managing the Energy Portfolio , details these
successes  and e xplains our investments across the energy
spectrum to meet the world’s growing demand for energy.At the same time, we continued to advance our corporateresponsibility objectives and results. 
We remained focused on our target of zero incidents.
Chevron is moving solidly toward world-class performance.We set a new safety record in 2006, our fifth consecutiveyear. However, 12 people died last year working on behalf of Chevron. The lessons we have learned from these and all incidents will enhance the safety of our operations going forward. 
In 2006, our business investments produced economic
benefits for our employees, business partners and thecommunities where we operate. We also invested nearly $91 million to help people improve their lives througheducation, training and local business development. Thesecommunity engagement investments spanned the globe. We partnered on a new polytechnic school in Indonesia; supported learning centers in Venezuela; engaged withgovernments, communities and nongovernmentalorganizations to reach common development goals inAngola and Nigeria; and launched the Energy for Learninginitiative to support public schools on the U.S. Gulf Coast. 
“Our statement on climate change has
been expanded to build on our Fourfold
Plan of Action on Climate Change. Thestatement conveys the company’s viewson the principles of economically sound
climate policies.”213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 23SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
Chevron improved its practices for as sessing environmental,
social and health impacts associated with its capital 
projects – before the projects even start. We have now
defined and deployed an as sessment process for virtually 
all new projects that will identify ways to create greater
value from these projects in local communities and mitigatepotential impacts. Chevron is committed to protectinghuman rights. Last year, we articulated our intentions in 
a Human Rights Statement and began employee training. 
Chevron posted better-than-targeted results for both
greenhouse gas emissions and energy efficiency. In addition,our statement on climate change has been expanded tobuild on our Fourfold Plan of Action on Climate Change. The statement conveys the company’s views on theprinciples of economically sound climate policies. Theseprinciples recognize, among other things, the need fornational frameworks and global engagement by the topemitting countries of the world; broad, equitable treatmentof all emitting sectors of the economy; and actions to enable technology, maximize conservation and ensureenergy security. Given the potential widespread impacts to society, the costs, risks, trade-offs and uncertaintiesassociated with climate policies must be thoughtfullyassessed and openly communicated.
The approximately 56,000 people of Chevron work every
day to meet the challenge of providing the world with theenergy it needs to support human progress – and we do so in the right way. We strive for world-class performanceacross every aspect of our business – from our technical and financial capabilities to our social and environmentalperformance. We are optimistic about our future. To succeedtoday and meet the challenges of tomorrow, we harness thegreatest source of energy in the world – human energy. 
Sincerely, 
Dave O’Reilly
April 2007Chevron at a Glance
[1] www.chevron.com/about/
www.chevron.com/operations/
www.chevron.com/brands/Chevron is one of the world’s leading integrated energy companies.
Headquartered in San Ramon, California, we have a diverse, multiculturalworkforce comprising approximately 56,000 employees. Our subsidiaries
conduct business in more than 180 countries. We operate across the entire
energy spectrum, producing and transporting crude oil and natural gas;refining, marketing and distributing fuels and other energy products andservices; manufacturing and selling petrochemical products; generatingpower; and developing and commercializing the energy resources of the
future, including biofuels and other renewables. 
Our major business strategies are focused on developing leading integrated
positions in growth areas of the world, as well as investing in renewabletechnologies. In 2006, Chevron operations averaged net daily production of 2.67 million barrels of oil-equivalent, with approximately 70 percent of the production occurring outside the United States in more than 20different countries.
Upstream
Chevron’s upstream strategy is to grow profitably in core areas and buildnew legacy positions. Major producing areas include Angola, Australia,Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, the Partitioned Neutral Zone, Thailand, theUnited Kingdom, the United States and Venezuela. Major exploration areasinclude western Africa, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Gulf of Thailand, theNorwegian Barents Sea, the international waters between Trinidad andTobago and Venezuela, the U.K. Atlantic Margin and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. 
We are also focused on commercializing our large equity natural gas resource
base while growing a high-impact global gas business. Chevron holds thelargest natural gas resource position in Australia and has other significantholdings in western Africa, Kazakhstan, Latin America, North America and Thailand.
Downstream
Our focus in our downstream operations is to improve base businessreturns and selectively grow with a focus on integrated value chaincreation. In 2006, we proc essed approximately 2 million barrels of crude 
oil per day and averaged approximately 3.6 million barrels per day ofrefined products sales worldwide. Major areas of operation are in Asia, insub-Saharan Africa, on the U.S. Gulf Coast extending into Latin America,and on the U.S. West Coast. We hold an interest in 20 fuel refineries andhave a fuels and lubricants marketing presence in approximately 175countries. We market under the Chevron, Texaco and Caltex motor fuelbrands. Products are sold through a network of approximately 25,800 retail outlets, including those of affiliate companies. 
Additional Businesses
Our busine sses ext end across the energy value chain. They include: Chevron
Energy Solutions Company; Chevron’s geothermal business; Chevron Global Power Generation; Chevron Technology Ventures; Chevron PhillipsChemical Company, a 50-50 joint venture; and Chevron Oronite Company. More information on these busine sses can be f ound on our Web site. [1]
Chevron is a publicly traded company listed on the New York StockExchange. Additional information on our corporate structure, operationsand brands can be found on our Web site. [1]213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 34INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
We regularly review and as sess gov ernance
trends and revise our policies as appropriate.
Comprehensive information to investors 
and others on our governance practice is
available on our Web site. [3]
Business Ethics 
Chevron is committed to conductingbusiness with the highest ethical standardsand fully complying with all applicable lawsin the countries where we do business. TheChevron Business Conduct and Ethics Code(BC&E Code) outlines how we conductourselves and our operations around theworld. All employees are required to readand acknowledge that they will abide by theBC&E Code, or take training on the code,which has been translated into 11 languages.The BC&E Code is periodically updated andredeployed to our employees.
The BC&E Code requires that instances of
questionable conduct in any area bereported to management, legal counsel, the appropriate operating organization’scompliance committee or the Chevron
Hotline. We uphold our policy of protectingwhistle-blowers from retaliation. The BC&ECode is available on our Web site. [4]
The Chevron Hotline is operated offsite by
Global Compliance Services (AlertLine
®), an
independent agent. Any matter submitted 
to the Chevron Hotline may be made
anonymously. Individuals can contact the
Chevron Hotline using a multilingual phoneline, via the Internet or by letter, 24 hours aday, seven days a week. All hotline mattersare reviewed by the corporation’s chiefHow We Conduct Our Business
Fulfilling the Vision of The Chevron Way
The Chevron Way describes what we do,what we believe and what we plan to
accomplish. It integrates corporate
responsibility into how we achieve businesssuccess. The Chevron Way states our vision,values and strategies and establishes acommon understanding not only for those of
us who work for Chevron, but also for all whointeract with us. To read more about TheChevron Way, please visit our Web site. [1]
Our Priorities
Corporate responsibility is managed through our existing management systems, processes and policies. We review
our corporate responsibility elementsperiodically to examine our progress and to identify emerging issues. To view theseelements, please visit our Web site. [2]Based on this approach, we made severalchanges to our list of priorities in 2006. The priorities discussed in this report are: 
IContinuous integration of corporate
responsibility into our business
IGlobal strategic workforce development
IStakeholder engagement
IHealth and safety, including HIV/AIDS
ICommunity engagement
IHuman rights
IClimate change, renewables and energy efficiency
IEnvironmental management
“Global strategic workforce development”
was added to reflect the importance of
building a committed workforce. “HIV/AIDS”is now included within “health and safety,” reflecting the ongoing globalimplementation of our HIV/AIDS policy. Business and Management Systems 
Three of the central business andmanagement systems that underpin ourefforts to conduct our business in aresponsible and ethical manner are ourCorporate Governance Guidelines, ChevronBusiness Conduct and Ethics Code, andOperational Excellence Management System.They are described below.
Corporate Governance 
Chevron has a long tradition of commitmentto good corporate governance. Directors areelected annually, and committee assignmentsand chair positions are routinely rotated. Fournew directors have been added since 2004. A lead director chairs executive sessions ofthe independent directors and works with thechairman on the schedule and agendas forboard meetings, as well as other matters. 
In 2006, we revised our Corporate
Governance Guidelines to provide greaterspecificity about our ongoing directoreducation efforts, the board’s periodic reviewof corporate governance documents, and ourgoal of providing greater than 50 percent 
of board compensation in equity. 
The board also adopted the Policy on
Stockholder Proposals Receiving MajorityApproval, which provides for board
reconsideration of any proposal notsupported by the board that receives amajority vote at the Annual Meeting ofStockholders. We routinely communicate 
with proponents of stockholder resolutions,as noted in the Stakeholder Engagementsection on page 16.
We define corporate responsibility as: 
IConsistently applying our core values, set out 
in The Chevron Way.
IMaximizing the positive impact of our operations on current and future generations.
IIntegrating social, environmental and economicconsiderations into our core practices and decision making.
IEngaging with and balancing the needs of our stakeholders.Lead geologist Aigul Assaubaeva (center)
and geologist-mentor Gary Jacobs (right), of the Tengizchevroil reservoirmanagement team in Kazakhstan, study3-D interpretations of subsurface geology
mapped from seismic data. Chevron is a 50 percent partner in Tengizchevroil.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CHEVRON RESERVOIR MANAGEMENT IN KAZAKHSTAN
[1] www.chevron.com/about/chevron_way/     [2] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/ 213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 45SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
compliance officer and chief corporate
counsel and, if warranted, are elevated to theAudit Committee of the Board of Directors.
In 2006, AlertLine
®received 262 hotline
calls in which allegations were made. While
the calls covered a wide variety of concerns,
the largest percentage pertained to three
classifications: 
IPeople management issues 62%
IFinancial and internal controls 15%
IEnvironment, health and safety 6%
Our compliance program relies on shared
responsibility and is structured so that each
business unit is responsible for its owncompliance. The Corporate Compliance PolicyCommittee, chaired by the vice chairman,sets compliance policy for the corporation,
governs the compliance program, andreviews the compliance activities of thebusiness units. The Audit Committee of theBoard of Directors reviews the company’sinternal auditing practices and is responsible
for corporate compliance oversight. 
Operational Excellence Management
System (OEMS)OEMS is what we use to systematicallymanage safety, health, the environment,reliability and efficiency. Using OEMS, we integrate operational excellence (OE)objectives, plans, proc esses and beha viors
into our daily operations to achieve world-class performance. During 2006, we continued to more fullyimplement OEMS through actions thatincluded the following: 
IEstablished an operational excellence 
governance board responsible forendorsing policy, proc esses and st andards
supported by the Health, Environment 
and Safety (HES) Steering Committee andthe Reliability Steering Committee. Theboard is chaired by the HES vice presidentand includes top managers of major
operating companies. 
IContinued OE training and certification. 
By year-end, nearly 10,400 Chevronemployees had completed OE training 
for leaders, while 7,010 had achieved 
OE certification.
IReleased a new corporate standard
process for risk management, discussed in the Environmental Management section
of this report. 
IDeployed an OEMS self-as sessment tool 
to enable business unit leaders to as sess
implementation against expectations.
IHosted the fourth annual OE Forum,
“Living OE for World-Class Performance.”Employees from around the globe shared
implementation experiences and best
practices through presentations andworkshops. Senior leaders participated in the forum, reinforcing leadershipinvolvement and accountability. 
[3] www.chevron.com/investor/corporate_governance/
www.chevron.com/financialreports/ 
www.chevron.com/investor/corporate_governance/contact_board.asp [4] www.chevron.com/biz_conduct/OE Vision
To be recognized and admired by industry and the communities in which we operate 
as world-class in safety, health, the
environment, reliability and efficiency.
OE Objectives 
IAchieve an injury-free workplace.
IEliminate spills and environmental
incidents. Identify and mitigate keyenvironmental risks.
IPromote a healthy workplace and mitigatesignificant health risks.
IOperate incident-free with industry-leadingasset reliability.
IMaximize the efficient use of resources and assets.
The Pembroke Refinery in Wales received one of
Chevron’s Zero Is Attainable awards for outstandingsafety performance during 2006. For 2005 through
2006, the refinery reported a Days Away From Work
Rate of zero, making a total of more than 6.5 millionhours without a Days Away From Work incident.
“Chevron, as a top-tier U.S. integrated oil and gas company, is subject to a range of complex sustainability 
issues across its operations. Managing and mitigating these sustainability risks will be increasingly crucial 
for the company’s future competitiveness. Chevron is currently in the top quartile of all oil and gas companies
in the Dow Jones Sustainability Assessment, and has increased its score and been included in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index for North America for the past two years.
In the environmental area, Chevron’s performance has improved, particularly regarding biodiversity and
releases to the environment. In our view, Chevron should strengthen its focus and strategies toward carbonemissions and climate change. In the social area, Chevron has relative strength against several of its peers and is markedly high on sustainability scoring for stakeholder engagement and corporate citizenship.”
Björn Tore Urdal, Senior Equity Analyst, Energy 
SAM Group and Dow Jones Sustainability IndexesDecember 2006213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 56INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Performance Overview
Below are brief summaries of performance
achievements and events in 2006 thatunderscore our commitment to operating
in a responsible manner.
Corporate ESHIA
Developed in 2006, our integratedEnvironmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) process was released as a corporate standard in January 2007. It will be implemented across the companyover three years. The ESHIA process will be applied to all new capital projects to
systematically identify, analyze and develop
measures to enhance project benefits and mitigate environmental, social andhealth impacts.
Community Engagement
A record of nearly $91 million was investedin community engagement initiatives, withapproximately 68 percent of these fundsused to help meet basic human needs,provide education and career training, andsupport local busine sses. Initiatives wereunder way in regions of Indonesia affected
by the 2004 tsunami to increase educationallevels and build economic capacity. We
reached agreements with eight communities
in Nigeria’s Niger Delta as part of a newcommunity engagement model. Stakeholderengagement was at the center of initiativesfocused on employees and communities in
Angola. Chevron launched an $18 millioninitiative to help support public education in23 Louisiana and Mississippi school districtsaffected by the 2005 hurricanes.
Continued OEMS Implementation
During 2006, we continued to work to fullyand effectively implement our OperationalExcellence Management System (OEMS)enterprisewide. We established anoperational excellence (OE) governanceboard responsible for endorsing OE policy,processes and decisions. A corporate
standard process for identifying andmanaging risks, including those related tohealth, the environment and safety, wasreleased companywide.Climate Change and Energy Efficiency
Chevron continued to implement its FourfoldPlan of Action on Climate Change, which is
now in its fifth year, to address climate change
issues. We emitted 61.9 million metric tons of CO
2equivalent, well under our goal of 
68.5 million metric tons. We continued working
toward our goal to eliminate routine flaring
and venting, where feasible. Our operations
were 27 percent more energy efficient per unit of output in 2006 than in 1992, when the Chevron Energy Index was established. 
Renewable Energy and Biofuels
Renewable energy was added as the fourth key component of our corporate strategicplan. A biofuels business unit was created toadvance technology and pursue commercial
opportunities related to ethanol and biodiesel.
We invested in a biodiesel facility in Galveston,Texas, that will initially produce 20 milliongallons of fuel per year and has the potential capacity to produce 100 million
gallons per year. Severa l strategic research
alliances were established with governmentand academic institutions to develop second-generation biofuels.Area of performance improvement Area of performance decline Unchanged or no significant improvement or decline
VOCs (volatile organic compounds)    SOx (sulfur oxides)    NOx (nitrogen oxides)
1 2006 data are based on a new classification system adopted by the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers and are no longer comparable to historical data.
2 Chevron’s net increase of approximately 3 million metric tons of CO 2-equivalent emissions from 2005 to 2006 can be attributed primarily to accounting of emissions from former Unocal
assets for the full year of 2006, compared with just five months in 2005 (Chevron acquired Unocal in August 2005).Socioeconomic
Fatalities (workforce) 6 12 [0] 18, 19
Days Away From Work Rate (workforce per 200,000 work hours) 0.12 0.09 [0.1] 18, 19
Total Recordable Incident Rate (workforce per 200,000 work hours) 0.41 0.42 18, 19
Company motor vehicle incidents (per million miles driven) 3.65 0.82 18, 19
Percent of female and non-Caucasian males at the senior executive level worldwide 19.4 21.4 15
Percent of females at midlevel positions and above worldwide 9.8 10.3 15
Total corporatewide spending in community investment (US$ millions) 73.1 90.8 22, 23
Environmental
Number of petroleum spills 846 803 36–38
Volume of petroleum spills (barrels) 47,934 6,099 36–38
Global VOCs emissions (thousands of metric tons) 469 384 36, 37
Global SOx emissions (thousands of metric tons) 119 118 36, 37
Global NOx emissions (thousands of metric tons) 122 138 36, 37
Number of environmental, health and safety fines and settlements 577 699 38
Total GHG emissions (millions of metric tons of CO 2equivalent) 59 61.92[68.5] 30, 31
GHG emissions from flaring and venting (millions of metric tons of CO 2equivalent) 14.7 16.1 30, 31
Energy efficiency (Chevron Energy Index) 76 73 [75] 30–32Key Corporate Responsibility Performance Indicators 2005 2006 Page
Goals are shown 
in brackets
1213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 67SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
Net income $14,099 $17,138
Sales and other operating revenue $193,641 $204,892
Capital and exploratory expenditures1$11,063 $16,611
Total assets at year-end $125,833 $132,628
Total debt at year-end $12,870 $9,838
Stockholders’ equity at year-end $62,676 $68,935
Per-share data
– Net income – diluted $6.54 $7.80
– Cash dividends $1.75 $2.01
– Common stock price at year-end $56.77 $73.53
Return on capital employed 21.9% 22.6%
Return on average stockholders’ equity 26.1% 26%
Total debt to total debt-plus-equity ratio 17% 12.5%
Tax expense
– U.S. income taxes $2,435 $3,609
– International income taxes $8,663 $11,229
– Taxes other than on income $20,782 $20,883
Research and development $316 $468
Stock repurchases $3,000 $5,000Financial Highlights 2005 2006
US$ millions, except per-share amounts
Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 1,669 1,732
(thousands of barrels per day)
Net production of natural gas 4,233 4,956
(millions of cubic feet per day)
Net oil-equivalent production 2,517 2,667
(thousands of oil-equivalent barrels per day)
Refinery input (thousands of barrels per day) 1,883 1,989
Sales of refined products3(thousands of barrels per day) 3,725 3,621
Net proved reserves of crude oil, condensate 
and natural gas liquids (millions of barrels)
– Consolidated companies 5,626 5,294
– Affiliated companies 2,37 4 2,512
Net proved reserves of natural gas4
(billions of cubic feet)
– Consolidated companies 20,466 19,910
– Affiliated companies 2,968 2,974
Net proved oil-equivalent reserves4(millions of barrels )
– Consolidated companies 9,037 8,612
– Affiliated companies 2,869 3,008
Number of employees at year-end 53,440 55,882
Total payroll (millions of dollars) $3,151 $3,500
Employee benefit costs (millions of dollars) $1,777 $1,742Operating Highlights22005 2006
1 Includes equity in affiliates 
2 Includes equity in affiliates except number of employees, total payroll and employee benefit costs3 2005 conformed to 2006 presentation4 At year-end5 Excludes approximately 6,000 service station personnel6 Excludes approximately 6,600 service station personnel56
Board Adoption of Majority Vote Policy
In 2006, the board adopted the Policy onStockholder Proposals Receiving Majority
Approval for inclusion in the Corporate
Governance Guidelines. This policy providesfor board reconsideration of any proposalnot supported by the board that receives a majority vote. 
Health and Safety
Implementation of our HIV/AIDS policycontinued. Existing programs that addressroad safety and contractor safety werestrengthened. New initiatives weredeveloped to heighten employees’awareness of cardiovascular health and torespond to health emergencies. Despite ahigh priority given to safety, there were 12 workforce fatalities in 2006. Chevroncontinues to vigorously review the rootcauses of major incidents or near misses and incorporate the results of the reviewsinto the OEMS improvement process.Performance Recognition
During 2006, Chevron gained recognitionfor its practices and performance from 
a number of independent organizations.
IThe Carbon Disclosure Project, which
represents 225 leading institutionalinvestors with assets of $31 trillion, 
ranked Chevron as one of the top five
international oil and gas companies in its Climate Leadership Index for taking“best in class” actions to address global climate change. This is the 
third consecutive year Chevron hasreceived the ranking.
IFor the second year in a row, 
Chevron was the only major U.S. oil and gas company to be included in 
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 
for North America.
IChevron was ranked in the top tier 
of North American integrated oilcompanies by the Goldman Sachs
Environment, Social and Governance
Framework.IChevron earned a rating of 100 percent
on the Human Rights Campaign’sCorporate Equality Index for the 
second straight year. Our handbook 
for negotiating transgender issues was cited as a model for other companies.
IIn 2006, Institutional Shareholder
Services rated Chevron in the top 4 percent of oil and gas companies in
terms of corporate governance. Chevron
also received a rating of 9.5 out of 10from GovernanceMetrics International. 
IFor the fourth consecutive year, the
Women’s Business Enterprise NationalCouncil named Chevron one of the top
U.S. corporations for providing growth
opportunities to women businessowners. Chevron is the first oil and gas company to receive this award.
IThe U.S. Department of Energy Annual
Merit Review recognized Chevron as“best in class” for our work in the 
area of hydrogen infrastructure
technology validation. 213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 7INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Priorities, Progress and Plans
PRIORITY AREA
IDeploy a self-as sessment process that business unit leaders will use to
assess their Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS)
implementation against expectations, supplementing corporate reviews.
IMake training available to business units.WHAT WE SAID WE WOULD DO IN 2006
IContinue regular stakeholder consultations on key issues. 
IMake stakeholder engagement guide available to business units. 
IParticipate in formulating recommendations by the International Advisory
Group (IAG) of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) forpresentation to the global EITI conference in late 2006 to promote wider
acceptance of EITI among resource-rich nations. 
IContinue to improve annual corporate responsibility reporting and align
publication with Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
IDevelop practical training to support our Human Rights Statement’sdeployment. The training will be designed to enhance awareness of humanrights and further explain Chevron’s support for universal human rights.Continuous Integration of
Corporate ResponsibilityInto Our Business
Page 4
Stakeholder Engagement
Page 16
Human Rights
Page 25IContinue to focus on safety, aiming to meet short-term performance targets
and the long-term goal of zero incidents.
IDevelop action plans and timelines that will focus on the HIV/AIDS-relatedneeds of our local workforces.
IDevelop standardized training curricula for management and employees, and develop principles for offering HIV/AIDS testing and treatment toemployees and their dependents.Health and Safety 
(including HIV/AIDS)
Page 18IContinue to develop a talent-sourcing initiative to recruit from a wider
range of universities and colleges worldwide and increase hiring ofexperienced people. 
ICreate leadership development programs throughout the company inaddition to supporting existing programs. 
IConduct a Pulse Survey with a random sample of employees worldwide to assess their level of engagement. Global Strategic 
Workforce Development
Page 14
8IIncrease the portion of our community investment targeted toward 
capacity building and economic development programs. 
IContinue to develop measurement tools that enable evaluation of ourcommunity engagement efforts, including engagement through the ESHIA process. 
IContinue to develop workshops and training to build the capability toeffectively implement our community engagement theme.Community Engagement
Page 22
IContinue implementation of environmental expectations through OEMS,including global collection of data on hazardous waste and oil dischargesto water.
IDevelop and deploy additional standards as needed.
IDemonstrate continual improvement in environmental performance.Environmental Management
Page 35IComplete greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions forecast.
IBegin operation of the Darajat Unit 3 geothermal project in Indonesia.
IContinue to install energy efficiency improvements and alternative energytechnologies at U.S. institutions and busine sses thr ough Chevron Energy
Solutions Company.Climate Change, Renewables 
and Energy Efficiency
Page 30213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 8SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
9WHAT WE DID IN 2006
IContinue with OEMS implementation across the company.
IBegin rollout of ESHIA across our global operations.
IContinue utilizing OEMS self-as sessment process.
IContinue aligning our CR and annual reporting proc esses.
IContinue engaging with stakeholders to improve our CR reporting.
IUse ESHIA process to further strengthen stakeholder engagement. 
IConduct stakeholder engagement training and make tools available 
to business units.
IContinue posting corporate political contributions made during the previous year on www.chevron.com . 
[Contributions were first posted in February 2007.]
ILaunched training program for employees to enhance their understanding of human rights in the context of Chevron’s role as a member of society. More than 1,200 employees completed the training.
IHeld training workshop for our global security advisors on the VoluntaryPrinciples on Security and Human Rights.
IServed on the core committee of the Global Sullivan Principles.IContinue rollout of Chevron’s Human Rights Statement,including employee training, over the next three years.WHAT WE PLAN TO DO NEXT
IDeployed OEMS self-as sessment process.
IContinued OEMS training and certification.
IEstablished OE governance board.
IFocused on implementing corporate responsibility (CR) through existing business proc esses r ather than a separate program.
IDeveloped Environmental, Social and Health Impact As sessment (ESHIA) 
process as a corporate standard for new projects.
IDistributed stakeholder engagement guide to business units.
IParticipated in formulation of IAG recommendations for EITI.
IAligned publication of annual CR report with Annual Meeting of Stockholdersand sought input from stakeholders and other interested persons on ways tomake the 2006 report more effective.
IReleased a corporate standard process for managing risks at facilities, includinghealth, environmental and safety risks.
IContinued HIV/AIDS training and sharing voluntary testing and treatmentguidelines with our physicians companywide. Established a permanent office forHIV/AIDS. Published training materials in 10 languages.
IFormed public-private coalitions in four countries to improve road safety throughthe Arrive Alive initiative.
IInitiated cardiovascular health program.
IHosted fourth annual OE Forum for employees worldwide to share best practices.IContinue safety focus, aiming toward long-term goal of zero incidents.
IContinue companywide deployment of corporate standard process for managing risk.
IContinue implementing global HIV/AIDS policy.
ICollaborate with other companies to implement health initiatives, such as programs that are part of the Corporate Alliance on Malaria in Africaand the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
IContinue implementing the Arrive Alive road safety initiative.
IHost fifth annual OE Forum.IRetooled global recruitment strategy to attract additional talent, including talent from a wider range of universities and colleges worldwide.
IIntroduced new training opportunities for new and experienced employees.
IConducted a 2006 Pulse Survey with a random sample of 25 percent of employees.
ICreated three leadership development programs to support existing programs.IIncrease communication on our record of responsible corporateactions and policies, together with our business strategies, in recruiting efforts.
IDeploy leadership development programs.
IConduct a Global Employee Survey with targeted questions onwhat makes employees stay with the company.
IIncrease community investment in capacity building and economicdevelopment programs.
IContinue developing our community engagement tool kit.
IWith rollout of companywide ESHIA, continue developing tools forsocial impact as sessments and deliver training.
IExpand community engagement practitioners’ network.
IContinue working with RDCs to create three-year development plans.
IImplement corporate ESHIA and third-party waste standard.
IContinue companywide OEMS alignment with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards.
IContinue to compile and analyze environmental data, including waterand waste data, across our operations to evaluate performance.IBegan collecting baseline data across all operations to track water and waste performance.
IIssued new standards such as third-party waste stewardship and ESHIA.
IDemonstrated continual improvement in performance. IContinue implementing Fourfold Plan of Action on Climate Change.
IContinue to partner in developing technologies, such as biofuels andmarket-based mechanisms, to reduce GHG emissions.
IBegin operation of Darajat Unit 3 geothermal project in Indonesia.
IContinue to work with California state officials and businesscommunity to understand technological possibilities for success and consider economic trade-offs needed to meet GHG emissions 
law mandates.ICompleted GHG emissions forecast.
IPerformed better than our GHG emissions and energy efficiency goals.
IFormed strategic alliances with government, academic and other institutions 
to focus on emerging technologies.
IEstablished new biofuels business unit.
IBegan working with California state officials and business community to help design theoverall framework for a GHG regulatory program mandated by new GHG emissions law.IIncreased capacity building and economic development programs to approximately 68 percent of total investments in community engagement initiatives.
IDeveloped tools for monitoring selected community engagement programs.
IDeveloped a community engagement practitioners’ network. 
IContinued to develop Regional Development Councils (RDCs) in Nigeria’s Niger Delta in partnership with local stakeholders.
IContinued support for communities affected by the natural disasters in 2004 and 2005.213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 9An Interview With Our Vice Chairman
Peter J. Robertson is vice chairman of the
board of Chevron Corporation. In addition 
to his responsibilities as a corporate officer,
he is directly responsible for Strategic
Planning; Policy, Government and PublicAffairs; and Human Resources. He alsochairs the Global Issues Committee. In thissection, Mr. Robertson gives his views on
several key issues.
“Operating in a responsible 
and ethical manner lies at the
heart of our value system and, combined with superiortechnology and world-class
execution, underpins oursuccess. This is critical todaybecause we live in an era ofglobal energy interdependence.All of us – producers, consumersand governments – must worktogether to produce andconserve the energy needed tosustain economic growth and
advance human development.”INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
10213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 10How do Chevron’s responsible business practices help it meet the
challenges of supplying energy to meet the world’s rising demand?
PJ R: Our practices help us both deliver on our business objectives
and make sustainable contributions in the countries where we
work. Operating in a responsible and ethical manner lies at theheart of our value system and, combined with superior technology
and world-class execution, underpins our success. This is criticaltoday because we live in an era of global energy interdependence.All of us – producers, consumers and governments – must worktogether to produce and conserve the energy needed to sustaineconomic growth and advance human development.
To meet the projected global demand for energy, we need to 
make full use of today’s energy sources while simultaneously
developing the next generation of resources. In the future, we’ll need contributions from the entire energy portfolio. Many of our newer sources of hydrocarbons are located in technicallychallenging environments. Other new potential energy sources,such as second-generation biofuels and coal-to-liquids, requireresearch and technology to secure commercial viability. We areconfident that, guided by our vision, values and strategy, we willmeet these challenges.
What is Chevron doing to help people in countries where 
it operates?
PJ R: Chevron can be a constructive player, together with
governments and civil society, in helping the economic benefits 
of energy flow to all stakeholders. However, we can’t do this alone. The socioeconomic issues facing some energy-producingnations are staggering. The solutions are not easy. They requireaccountability and an integrated approach that brings togetherlocal, national and international institutions. At Chevron, wesupport initiatives such as the Extractive Industries TransparencyInitiative, which promotes transparency through the publicdisclosure of payments made by companies and revenues receivedby countries. We support capacity building programs, such as the Politeknik Caltex Riau, a polytechnic university in Indonesiathat helps students develop a range of engineering, business andvocational skills. We also develop partnerships with governments,communities and nongovernmental organizations to enhance local communities’ ability to direct their own economic development.Investing in people – both our employees and our communities – is one way we can make a sustainable contribution to our collective future.
Does Chevron believe that climate change is real, and what 
is it doing about it?
PJ R: The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the leading
scientific body with expertise in this area, believes our climate
system is warming. The panel has concluded that atmosphericconcentrations of greenhouse gases are rising, very likely due tohuman activities. While the use of fossil fuels contributes to theseemissions, other factors are important too, including land usechanges and agricultural activities.In our own operations, we have initially focused on reducing our
own emissions, principally by improving our energy efficiency. Weare also progressing several flaring and venting reduction projects
that will, when completed over the next few years, reduce our GHG
emissions. Finally, we have developed a set of principles to guideflexible and economically sound policy actions on climate change.We are actively working with policy makers as they tackle thiscomplex issue.
Chevron is primarily an oil and gas company. Is Chevron really
committed to developing renewables?
PJ R: Absolutely. While our predominant line of business remains
exploring for, producing and marketing products developed from
crude oil and natural gas, we are making investments in renewableenergy. From 2002 to 2006, we invested nearly $2 billion inrenewable and alternative energy, including energy efficiencyservices, and expect to invest more than $2.5 billion from 2007 through 2009. To advance the development of renewabletransportation fuels, we have developed research alliances with several prominent institutions and established a biofuelsbusiness unit.
In addition, energy efficiency and conservation cannot and should
not be overlooked. They are currently the most plentiful form of“new” energy. We are the only integrated energy company with asubsidiary – Chevron Energy Solutions – dedicated to helping
others become more energy efficient.
Do governments have a role to play in meeting these energy
challenges?
PJ R: Without a doubt, yes. Tomorrow’s energy supplies must 
not only be affordable and reliable, but cleaner than ever before.
Governments can play a role in stimulating the development and deployment of new energy technologies such as carbonsequestration, next-generation ethanol fuels, and advanced batterysystems. In many cases, it is impossible to commercialize promisingtechnologies without government support and partnership. As oneof the largest energy consumers in the United States, the U.S.government can set an example by requiring agencies to use lessenergy, providing incentives to increase energy efficiency andpromoting conservation efforts.
More fundamental, governments have a responsibility to lead open
and honest debates on how to balance continued economic growthwith our shared desire to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Afterall, energy is more than mobility, light and heat. It is a fundamentaldriver of global economic growth and opportunity. Policy makersmust articulate solutions that will enable both goals to be reachedor be prepared to propose sensible trade-offs. Policies gearedtoward absolutes – economic growth regardless of environmentalconsequences or emissions reduction at any cost – are bound to beunsustainable. Ultimately, we must all be better informed and learnabout these issues. On Chevron’s part, I invite you to join in thedialogue on energy issues at www.will youjoinus.com.
11SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 11INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
12
On the following pages, we summarize our 2006 socioeconomic performance
and discuss our progress in workforce development, stakeholder engagement,health and safety, supply chain management, community engagement, and
human rights. We also take a look at our Southern Africa strategic business
unit’s socioeconomic performance in Angola. 
In each of these areas, our efforts are guided by our conviction that
partnerships benefit the communities in which we operate and contribute to more stable and secure energy supplies.Socioeconomic213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 12SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
13
“PARTNERSHIP IS AT THE HEART
OF OUR APPROACH TO COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT . WE WORK
CLOSELY WITH GOVERNMENTS ,
COMMUNITIES , NONGOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATIONS , ACADEMIC
INSTITUTIONS AND OTHERSTAKEHOLDERS TO DEVELOP
,
IMPLEMENT AND EVALUATEOUR ECONOMIC AND SOCIALDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
.
INVESTING IN AND COLLABORATING
WITH PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIESLEADS TO SUSTAINABLE GROWTHAND PROSPERITY
, WHICH BENEFITS
EVERYONE .” 
NADEEM ANWAR
MANAGER , COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT ADVISORS
CHEVRON CORPORATION
Working with local governments and communities, Chevron is helping establish a pioneering cassava agribusiness for
local farmers near the company’s Tiwi and Mak-Ban geothermal operations in the Philippines. Farmer Danilo Escobar(above) removes weeds and grass from idle land planned for cassava production. To learn more about this project,
please see “Measuring Success” on page 24.213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:34 PM  Page 1314INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Global Strategic Workforce Development
Recruiting and retaining a world-class global
workforce is critical to our business success.Growth in energy demand and higher 
energy prices have increased the industry’s
investment activities, leading to greatercompetition for skilled people. During 2006, we continued building our workforcecapabilities and developing national talent in
the countries where we operate through ourInvest in People strategy, discussed below.
Today, we have employees in 118 countries
around the world and approximately 30projects in which Chevron’s share is more than$1 billion. New talent is being hired at a ratesignificantly higher than two years ago. Thecore of our experienced workforce is retiringin increasing numbers. At the same time, ourinvestments are occurring in increasinglydiverse geographies. In 2006, 46 percent of our employees worked in U.S. operations,compared with 73 percent seven years ago. 
Invest in People Strategy
Our Invest in People strategy is designed 
to attract global talent and continue ourinvestment in existing employees. To supportthis objective, in 2006 we establishedstandards, metrics and governance guidelinesfor four core talent management proc esses:
bringing new employees onboard, performancemanagement, as sessment of employee
potential and leadership development.
Attracting Global Talent
In 2006, we retooled our global recruitmentefforts, including redesigning Internet andprint materials, and improving online
recruiting tools. We expanded ourrecruitment efforts into countries such as
India, South Africa and Thailand, where there
are potential employees with key skill sets.We hired significantly more people in 2006than in 2005, including approximately 3,500in the United States and approximately 2,300
in non-U.S. locations. At the end of 2006,approximately 94.6 percent of our employeeswere working within their home countries.
Investing in Our Employees
Retaining and developing our employeesthroughout their entire careers is crucial toensuring that our workforce continues tomeet our evolving business needs. In 2006,we developed new training opportunities for new and experienced employees andsupervisors. These will be launched in 2007and include:
IU.S. and international versions of
Horizons, an accelerated developmentprogram to build the competency of
upstream technical employees with fewer
than five years of industry experience. The program has been restructured andstandardizes pre-existing versions ofHorizons to provide all participants with
the same development and trainingopportunities worldwide.
IThe Pathways program, designed to 
assess t echnical competencies, establish
development plans, provide technical 
and nontechnical training, and provide
opportunities for career growth forupstream technical employees with more
than five years of industry experience. Theprogram is aligned with the developmentgoals of the Horizons program.
An important element of our Invest inPeople strategy is to develop leaders whodeliver superior results in our culturally
diverse, global company. In 2006, plans wereput in place to require all managers andsupervisors to participate in three newlydeveloped leadership programs starting in2007. These mandatory programs aredesigned to standardize leadership trainingcompanywide to enable leaders to developsimilar skills that support high performancefrom employees regardless of location.
Selected senior leaders continued to attend
the Chevron Advanced Managementprogram, a two-month-long developmentprogram to advance their strategic thinkingand global mindset. Participants take onaction-learning projects challenging them to analyze specific business issues. 
In addition, International Mentoring
Excellence in Technology, part of the ChevronFellows program, was launched in early 2007as a parallel program to the existing NorthAmerica version. It provides group and
individual mentoring to develop leadershipskills for employees outside North America in technical fields. The Chevron Fellowsprogram recognizes employees for technical
accomplishments and proactively advancesthe company’s technical competencies.
North America 
47.4% 
Asia-Pacific 
26.3%
Africa 
13%
Europe/Middle East8.5%
South America
4.8%
Global Workforce at Year-End 2006
Geographic breakdownWORKING OUTSIDE ONE’S HOME COUNTRY
With employees in 118 countries, Chevron
provides its global workforce withopportunities outside their home countries.Iman Al Husaini, an employee of Chevronsubsidiary Saudi Arabian Chevron Inc., 
was on assignment as a Global Gas portfolioadvisor in San Ramon, California, during 2006.
At the end of 2006, our worldwide staffing was 55,882, excluding service station employees. This represents an increase 
of 4.6 percent over the previous year. Approximately 15.7 percent of our U.S. workforce is represented by unions.213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 1415SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
Mark Shalz (above), a rock mechanics technician, and more than 250 other Chevron employees from around the
world attended the fourth annual Career Expo in San Ramon, California, in October 2006. The expo providedemployees with information on such topics as career growth, the expatriate experience and career opportunities
across Chevron’s  busine sses and oper ations. New Energy Technology Centers
In 2006, Chevron Energy TechnologyCompany (ETC) announced the opening 
of energy technology centers in Aberdeen,
Scotland, and Perth, Australia. The twocenters, which opened in 2006 and early2007, respectively, will provide research,development and technical services to
Chevron’s worldwide operations. Themajority of the 100 technology professionalsat each center are expected to be hiredregionally. Recruitment campaigns are underway to hire experienced professionals and
university students in such fields as geology;
geophysics; and petroleum, process andfacilities engineering. 
Supporting Diversity
Supporting diversity and fostering inclusionare part of The Chevron Way and our Investin People strategy. As of 2006, we have 10 officially recognized employee networks,including ones focused on gender, race,sexual orientation, age, disability andnational origin. Each network welcomes 
any employee who supports its mission.
Chevron also tracks a variety of metrics 
that help us understand our progress on ourdiversity goals. We report on a selection ofthese in the charts below.Conducting Employee Surveys 
Chevron routinely conducts surveys tounderstand what makes employees choose to
stay with the company and what keeps themengaged in their work. Some business unitsalso conduct unit-specific surveys to as sess
the need for local programs. For example, in2006, our energy technology and informationtechnology companies implemented programsthat addr essed performance and work-life
balance issues, factors identified in surveys
as among those most relevant for people to
remain in their jobs. Our 2006 Pulse Surveywas distributed to a random sample of 25 percent of employees worldwide and hada 67 percent response. In 2007, questions on these and related issues will be includedin our Global Employee Survey. 
Employee Surveys
200422005320063
I believe strongly in the goals and 
objectives of Chevron 87% 91% 93%
I am proud to be a part 
of Chevron 87% 89% 92%
Chevron is a company that cares about the health and well-being of employees 80% 83% 87%
I find it difficult to effectively manage both my work demands and my personal or family needs 33% 35% 32%
1 2005 data have been revised to reflect improvements in our
human resources reporting system.
2 Global Employee Survey (sent to all employees worldwide) 
3 Pulse Survey (sent to a random sample of employees worldwide)U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Statistics
2005 2006
Minorities among total employees 31% 32.2%
Women among total employees 29% 28.3%
Minorities among officials and managers 20% 27.4%
Women among officials and managers 21% 21%
Minorities among professionals 24% 26.1%
Women among professionals 28% 30.7%Global Diversity
200512006
Women in total workforce 20.6% 21.5%
Women represented at midlevel and above 9.8% 10.3%
Women and non-Caucasian men represented at 
senior executive level 19.4% 21.4%213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 1516INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Stakeholder Engagement
Listening to and working with our
stakeholders in a constructive mannerinforms our decision making. Our vision is 
to earn the admiration of our stakeholders
not only for the goals we achieve but howwe achieve them. In 2006, we took a numberof steps to further integrate stakeholderengagement into our business proc esses 
and management systems. 
ESHIA 
Engaging with stakeholders is important foridentifying and responding to issues thathave the potential to affect communities and our operating environment. OurEnvironmental, Social and Health ImpactAssessment (ESHIA) process is a strategictool to manage issues that arise and fosterlocal support for our operations. Thisscaleable process requires capital projects to be evaluated for potential environmental,social and health impacts, and appropriatemitigation measures to be developed. ESHIAis used to anticipate and plan the manner in which impacts are mitigated and benefits
enhanced during the planning, construction,operation and decommissioning of a project.ESHIA was adopted for deployment as 
a corporate standard in January 2007. 
Engaging with community members, local
officials, nongovernmental organizations and others early and often throughout thelife span of a project is central to the ESHIAprocess. We engage with stakeholders as
part of the process to: 
IIdentify the most significant impacts of 
a project and their relative importance.
IIdentify potential stakeholders to assist in the design and implementation ofmitigation strategies.
IBuild constructive and harmonious long-term relationships with neighborsand other stakeholders.
To read more about how stakeholder
engagement contributes to all phases of the ESHIA process, please see our AngolaCase Study on page 26.
Stockholder Proposals 
Chevron received nine stockholder proposalsfor the 2007 proxy season. We engaged withproponents of seven of the proposals andcame to mutual agreements that led to thewithdrawal of two. The first proposal was to report on political contributions and the second would eliminate supermajorityvoting provisions in our certificate ofincorporation. Proposals not withdrawn willbe put to a stockholder vote at the AnnualMeeting of Stockholders in April 2007. 
Revenue Transparency 
Chevron supports greater transparency of payments made by extractive industriesto governments in resource-rich countries
and of revenues received by thosegovernments. We believe that greatertransparency will result in a more stable,long-term investment climate and higher
levels of accountability for the effective use of the revenues. In 2006, we continuedto participate in the Extractive IndustriesTransparency Initiative (EITI) as a member 
of EITI’s International Advisory Group (IAG). Chevron contributed to therecommendations that were presented to the international EITI conference in Oslo, Norway. 
[1] www.chevron.com/news/speeches/2006/2006-10-16_robertson.asp Willyoujoinus.com continues to raise
awareness of and provide a forum to discuss
global energy issues. By 2006, people from190 countries had visited the site tocontribute their viewpoints on topics
ranging from energy interdependence to the role of nuclear power. A site studyconducted in early 2006 showed that 78 percent of visitors say the site is RAISING AWARENESS OF GLOBAL ENERGY ISSUES
“excellent” or “good,” and 69 percent 
say they are more informed about energyissues as a result of visiting the site. At the end of each debate, the AspenInstitute, an international nonprofit
organization dedicated to fostering open-minded dialogue, provides a discussion analysis for the onlinecommunity and visitors to the site.213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 1617SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
To view Chevron Vice Chairman Peter
Robertson’s speech at the Oslo conference,please visit our Web site. [1] The final IAG
report, including the Validation Guide, can 
be viewed on the EITI Web site. [2] 
Political Contributions
Chevron has strict policies and internalapproval proc esses, which comply with the
letter and spirit of all laws, to guide ourpolitical contributions decisions. By law, allcontributions are reported in the applicablejurisdiction where the contribution is made.In 2006, we made nearly $43.5 million in corporate political contributions tocandidates and political organizations that support economic development, freeenterprise and good governance. This totalincluded contributions to support our viewson local and state ballot measures.
In 2006, we were a supporter of a succ essful
effort to defeat California’s Proposition 87. 
It proposed that a new tax be levied on oilproduced in the state, with up to $4 billion of proceeds to be used to promote the
development and use of alternative fuels.The measure lacked fiscal accountability 
and would have made the state more relianton imported oil by creating a disincentive 
to future investments in the state’s oil
production.
Every political contribution we make is
subject to a thorough review process.Contributions are planned, budgeted, legally reviewed and approved in advance by management, including approval by theExecutive Committee. 
In February 2007, we posted a list of our
corporate political contributions madeduring the previous year on our externalWeb site. [3] 
During the 2005–2006 election cycle, 
the Chevron Employees Political ActionCommittee (CEPAC) contributed $536,200 to the U.S. election of candidates for federal office from both parties, as well as to local and state candidates in jurisdictionswhere direct corporate contributions are not permitted. By policy, CEPAC does not contribute to
presidential candidates or political parties. A listing of federal contributions made during
this election cycle can be viewed on the
Federal Election Commission Web site. [4] 
Lobbying
It will take a strong, coordinated response by everyone in the energy value chain –producers, consumers and policy makers alike– to meet the growing demand for energy. As a stakeholder in that value chain, we havea responsibility and a right to advocate ourposition on proposed policies that will have animpact on our ability to respond to that need. 
Lobbying is an essential and constructive
part of the political process. We workethically, constructively and in a bipartisanmanner through direct communication withpublic officials and by encouraging ouremployees, stockholders and others tocommunicate with those officials, wherepermitted by law. Chevron complies with all registration and reporting regulationsrelated to our lobbying activities.
[2] www.eitransparency.org/     [3] www.chevron.com/investor/corporate_governance/political_contributions.asp     [4] www.fec.g ov/Stakeholder
Stockholders
Employees
Suppliers
Governments
Customers
Local communities
Nongovernmental
organizationsProfile
Registered and beneficial stockholders of record
Approximately 56,000 Chevron employees (as of
December 31, 2006) 
Approximately $30 billion spent globally on goods and
services in 2006 with a network of suppliers that rangefrom multinational companies to small, locally ownedbusine sses
Governments in approximately 180 countries where 
we conduct business
Commodity markets, wholesale and retail customers
Numerous communities around the world where
Chevron’s facilities are located
Numerous business forums, multilateral institutions,
philanthropic foundations, academic institutions, thinktanks, faith-based groups, and development organizationsHow we engaged in 2006
IAnnual Meeting of Stockholders 
IDiscussions with proponents of stockholder proposals 
IEmployee Pulse Survey 
ICompliance hotline 
IChevron ombudsperson 
IWorldwide employee teleconference with senior management 
IMonthly chairman’s letter 
IEmployee networks 
IU.S. and non-U.S. small business, supplier diversity and local content
programs (see page 21)
ISupplier development forums 
IParticipation in supplier-oriented organizations 
INegotiating production contracts 
ICollaborating on global voluntary initiatives such as the ExtractiveIndustries Transparency Initiative
ITechnology transfer
IPromoting road safety through Arrive Alive
IPaying taxes 
IRegional and in-country customer service support offices 
IU.S. Retail Marketing Center and U.S. Consumer Connection Center
ICommunity engagement programs and outreach 
IInvolving communities before and during new major capital projects
IEmployee volunteerism
IParticipation in multistakeholder forums and initiatives 
IAttendance at conferences and meetings 
IDirect dialogue 213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 1718INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Health and Safety
Chevron strives to achieve world-class
health and safety performance through-out its operations through leadership
accountability, management system
processes and operational excellence.
In 2006, our focus continued on improving
the health and safety of our workforce andthe communities in which we operate. Inaddition, we expanded global implementationof our HIV/AIDS policy and str engthened
existing programs that address road andcontractor safety. We also initiated programsto heighten employees’ awareness ofcardiovascular health. 
Reducing All Incidents to Zero
Safety is our highest priority. Our workforceDays Away From Work Rate fell by 25 percentfrom 2005, our fifth consecutive year ofimprovement. While the workforce TotalRecordable Incident Rate was up 2 percentfrom the previous year, we continue to movetoward world-class performance. Despite our best efforts, 12 people died in 2006while working on our behalf, including 
one employee and 11 contractors. Chevroncontinues to vigorously review the rootcauses of major incidents and near missesand incorporate the results of the review intothe OEMS improvement process. We arecommitted to reducing fatalities, and allincidents, to zero (see charts on page 19). 
Our Zero Is Attainable award program 
is designed to recognize business units that demonstrate outstanding safetyperformance by completing 1 million hoursor 1,000 days worked with no workforceDays Away From Work incidents. In 2006, 79 facilities worldwide received this award. Enhancing Contractor Safety
Contractors represent a large percentage ofour total workforce hours, making their safety
an important issue. OEMS sets expectations
for all business units to have a contractorsafety management program in place thatincludes engagement, clearly establishedaccountability and written proc esses. Many
business units regularly convene contractor
safety forums to share best practices. 
Promoting Road Safety
Road safety is an important issue, not only for our company, but also for many of the countries where we operate. In 2006,we revised the type of data collected onmotor vehicle incidents to align with theInternational Association of Oil & GasProducers’ new classification system. Thischange enables us to more consistentlyclassify and understand the cause of themost serious work-related incidents andcompare our performance with others in the industry. Over the past five years,workforce fatalities related to motor vehicle
incidents have decreased by 90 percentacross our operations. 
We continue to work with governments,
nongovernmental organizations and theprivate sector to expand and strengthenArrive Alive, a road safety initiative designedto eliminate traffic-related fatalities andinjuries among employees, contractors and members of the communities in whichwe operate. Arrive Alive programs inGuatemala, Nigeria, South Africa andUganda began implementing road safetyaction plans in 2006 that included helpingestablish or joining nonprofit organizationsto promote road safety.In addition to this effort, Chevron and 
its partners are identifying other activitiesto promote road safety, including:
IProviding road safety education in schools and through the media.
IAssisting government enforcementagencies with sharing best practices from other countries; from our health,
environment and safety group; and from
partner organizations.
IAssisting these same government
agencies to promote compliance withexisting traffic laws by providing expertise
and nonmonetary resources, such as
helping identify appropriate systems andequipment that can include signage, radarguns and Breathalyzer
®devices.
Promoting Cardiovascular HealthCardiovascular-related illne sses are
projected to be the world’s leading cause of death and disability by 2020, according 
to the World Health Organization. Theypresent a health risk to our global workforce.Our new cardiovascular health program isdesigned to increase awareness and offerpractical steps for employees to reducecardiovascular risk. The program provideseducational materials and resources on the leading causes of cardiovascular illness,such as elevated blood pressure, cholesterol,stress, poor nutrition and excess weight.
HIV/AIDS Policy Implementation
The long-term goal of our global HIV/AIDSpolicy is to secure treatment for employeesand covered dependents wherever andwhenever appropriate medical infrastructureexists and national laws permit. 213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 18American Petroleum Institute data are used as 
industry benchmarks.Total Recordable Incident Rate
Recordable incidents per 200,000 work hours
Employees     Contractors     Benchmark
0.16  0.15
0.21 0.19
0.25 0.22
0.25 0.230.1  0.15
0.16 0.19
0.18 0.17
0.25 0.21
American Petroleum Institute data are used as industry benchmarks.Days Away From Work Rate
Days away per 200,000 work hours
Employees     Contractors     Benchmark
19SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
[1] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/hiv_aids/2006 data are based on a new classification systemadopted by the International Association of Oil & GasProducers and are no longer comparable to historical data.3.65
3.01
3.31
2.94Motor Vehicle Safety
Company motor vehicle incidents per million miles drivenAmerican Petroleum Institute data are used as
industry benchmarks.Lost-Time Incident Frequency
Incidents per million work hours
Employees     Contractors     Benchmark
1
2
2
0
111
4
15
12
15Work-Related Fatalities
Employees     ContractorsIn 2006, we continued to implement the
policy through training programs, sharingvoluntary testing and treatment guidelines
with our physicians companywide, and
establishing a permanent office of HIV/AIDS.
All managers and supervisors are expected
to take HIV/AIDS training. In 2006, trainingwas released to all locations worldwide.Approximately 3,600 managers and super-visors and 4,800 employees participated ineither instructor-led or computer-basedversions. Training has also been added to new employee orientation, supervisor training and anti-harassment training.
Training materials are available in the 
10 most widely spoken languages for ourworkforce, included on our internal Web site,and linked to managerial and employeetraining sites. Our 40 HIV/AIDS policyimplementation coordinators have access toa “community of practice” Web site designedto share information and best practices andto post questions and answers. This is inaddition to information on the internal
employee Web site. For more information,please visit our Web site. [1] 
Collaborating to Fight Malaria 
Chevron has programs in place to fightmalaria in areas of Africa where the diseaseis a major health threat to the communitieswhere we operate. In Nigeria, we launchedanti-malaria initiatives in Rivers and Kadunastates. Both initiatives targeted children under five years of age and pregnantwomen. We also introduced an awarenesscampaign to be delivered from the RiverBoat Clinic project, which serves as a mobilehospital along the Benin and Escravos riversin Delta State. 2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2006
2005
2004
2003
20020.34 
0.38
0.46 0.66
0.60 0.84
0.68 0.900.46 
0.42
0.53 0.73
0.59 0.76
0.84 0.740.41  
0.84  0.77
1.07 0.95
1.26 1.08
1.26 1.200.53  
0.79 0.49
0.87 0.95
0.95 0.90
1.30 1.10
0.08 
0.1  20062006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2005
2004
2003
20020.61
0.67
0.82213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 1920INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
In Angola, we distributed insecticide-treated
nets to Angolan employees and theirfamilies and established a 24-hour malaria
hotline. As a result of these and other steps,
the incident rate of malaria cases wassubstantially reduced at our clinic in Luanda and our facilities in Cabinda andMalongo provinces. 
In 2006, we supported the Global Business
Coalition on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis andMalaria and helped establish the CorporateAlliance on Malaria in Africa, together withother companies.
Planning for Pandemic Influenza
We believe that our success in addressingthe potential impact of infectious diseases in the workplace, including a pandemicthreat, relies on using existing systems todrive appropriate behavior. 
In 2006, written guidance and video
materials were distributed throughout ouroperations to support deployment of a
planning process for an influenza pandemic.A Web site with additional information alsowas established. The four major componentsof the planning process are:
IEducation and hygiene
IManaging workplace exposure
IBusiness continuity planning
ICommunications We conducted a post-implementation reviewat major business units, and resultingrecommendations were distributed to ouroperations. A corporate-level engagementsession was also held with approximately 130 key suppliers to apprise them of ourstrategies and plans.
Expanding Product Stewardship 
Managing potential risks of our products is one of the key expectations of ourOperational Excellence Management System.Our product stewardship efforts includeundertaking risk as sessments to identify,
assess and det ermine ways to manage
potential issues and concerns that may berelated to new and existing products, fromtheir conception and development to finaldisposition. In 2005 and 2006, as sessments
were conducted in Kazakhstan and Ukraine,Pakistan, the Philippines, South Africa,Thailand, and the United States. Chevron’sproduct stewardship community of practicecomprises subject matter experts fromselected groups across the company. The group’s role is to share knowledge andprovide ongoing guidance to employees 
on implementation of proc esses and t ools
related to product stewardship. 
Roberto Garcia, a Chevron Health, Safety and
Environment coordinator in Puerto la Cruz, Venezuela, makes sure that health and safety issues
are incorporated into the project decision-making
process. In January 2007, he led a session at an ESHIA workshop for the Delta Caribe liquefied natural gas project. Attending were governmentrepresentatives and project business partners.213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 2021SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
Supply Chain Management
In 2006, Chevron spent approximately 
$30 billion on goods and services fromsuppliers and contractors ranging from 
large multinational corporations to locally
based busine sses in c ommunities in which
we operate. Building local supplier capacityis one of the most important ways webenefit communities.
Building a Diverse U.S. Supplier Network
Sourcing from small, women-owned andminority-owned busine sses helps us meet
our business needs while stimulatingeconomic growth. In 2006, we spentapproximately $2.8 billion on goods andservices provided by small busine sses 
in the United States, exceeding our goal of 27 percent of total U.S. expenditures. In addition, we spent $432 million withminority-owned busine sses and $373 million
with women-owned busine sses, both of
which were slightly under our 5 percentspending goal for each category.
We have several strategies in the United
States to attract a diverse supplier networkand monitor our efforts against our goals.These include training and outreach programsto potential suppliers on our requirements,helping large suppliers with contracts ofmore than $500,000 to understand oursupplier diversity initiatives, and requiringlarge suppliers to identify opportunities toincrease their own supplier diversity. 
Building a Strong Local Supplier 
Network WorldwideDeveloping qualified and competent localsuppliers through training and technologytransfer in international locations helpsestablish us as a partner of choice withgovernments in countries where we operate,and increases operational and projectsupport among employees and communities.In 2006, we held mentoring and trainingprograms in Angola, Indonesia, Kazakhstanand Nigeria, and supplier forums incountries that included Kazakhstan andNigeria. These initiatives enable localsuppliers to understand our business needs
and make them more succ essful in tendering
for our business.
Creating Value and Competitive
Advantage Through DiversityOur supplier diversity and small businessprograms embrace a variety of people, ideas,
talents and experiences. Our partnershipwith Cole Chemical & Distributing, Inc., a Houston-based independent chemicaldistributor, demonstrates how our programscreate value for our customers and our
partners in the supply chain. 
Cole Chemical, founded by CEO Donna
Fujimoto Cole in 1980, has only 12employees, yet it earned more than $50 million in sales in 2005. The companywas one of a number of firms invited to bidon a new chemical distribution requirementfor Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, a 50 percent-owned affiliate. Cole Chemical’ssupplier partnership with us was initiated inAugust 2006 with a pilot project for the Gulf
of Mexico business unit. We nominated thecompany for the Houston Minority BusinessCouncil’s Supplier of the Year Award, whichit won in October 2006.
Building Employee Capacity
Thirty-six of our employees from 15countries graduated from Arizona StateUniversity’s M.B.A. program in May 2006with specialties in supply chain management.They are the second group to complete thecustomized 18-month program deliveredonline. This master’s-level program providesus with procurement professionals who havethe skills to manage in today’s competitivesupply chain environment. 
U.S. Small Business and Supplier 
Diversity Spending 
US$ millions
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
Small business 1,364 1,310 1,360 1,800 2,800
Women-owned 212 223 222 258 373
Minority-owned 209 202 226 310 432
In Nigeria, Building Capacity Through
Local Content Chevron supports the establishment of 
self-sustaining local companies that have the
capacity to compete anywhere in the world. In Nigeria, our Agbami Field project is activelyworking to develop local suppliers. The fieldis located in deep water, approximately 
70 miles (113 kilometers) off the coast ofNigeria’s central Niger Delta region.Operated by a Chevron affiliate, Star DeepWater Petroleum Limited, the project willcome onstream in 2008 with estimated peak
production projected at 250,000 barrels of
crude oil and natural gas liquids per day.
Input on the design and fabrication of
offshore structures for the project hascontributed to local content value exceeding2.7 million workforce hours. Some 10,000 tonsof major offshore components for the Agbamiproject will be fabricated in local yards.
Nigerdock Nigeria Plc and Daewoo Nigeria
Limited helped complete in-country
fabrication of key components of theproject’s floating production, storage andoffloading v essel. The components were
completed on schedule and without any lost-time injury. The sizeable workload alsoprompted Nigerdock, Daewoo and Grinaker-LTA Nigeria to expand and upgrade theirfacilities. These infrastructure improvementswill continue to serve present and futurebusiness interests in Nigeria.Justina Okoro (left) and Oluseun Olusola participate 
in topside-module inspection on the Chevron Agbamiproject. They are two of a number of employees from
National Engineering and Technical Company Ltd., 
a subsidiary of the Nigerian National PetroleumCorporation, who have received training on the project. 213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 2122INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Community Engagement
Chevron’s community engagement activities
focus on building capacity to promote localeconomic development and stable, long-term
relationships. In 2006, we invested nearly 
$91 million in community engagementinitiatives. Approximately 68 percent focusedon building human and institutional capacityin ways that help stimulate economic growth
and enable communities to prosper. Ourcommunity engagement initiatives targetedthree areas: basic human needs, educationand career training, and support for localsmall and medium-size busine sses, which
includes access to credit. These initiativeswere executed in partnership with local and national governments, communities,nongovernmental organizations andmultilateral institutions.
Capital Projects 
and Community EngagementOur community engagement activities are also evident in our Environmental, Social and Health Impact As sessment
project review process, described in the 
Stakeholder Engagement section on page 16. A community engagement networkhelps increase our employees’ capacity toadminister programs, share best practices,and develop common monitoring andevaluation proc esses.Continuing Support for Communities
In 2006, Chevron continued to support the rebuilding efforts of communities
affected by natural disasters in South Asia,
Pakistan and the U.S. Gulf Coast. We alsocontinued our efforts to promote economicdevelopment in Nigeria’s Niger Delta regionand our relocation assistance to families
from Sarykamys, Kazakhstan.
Energy for Learning 
Education is crucial to the social andeconomic vitality of communities. In June2006, Chevron launched Energy forLearning, a three-year, $18 million initiativeto support public school education in 23Louisiana and Mississippi school districtsaffected by hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Inconsultation with education officials in bothstates and in partnership with local nonprofitorganizations, we are providing academicmaterials, science lab equipment andcomputers to schools. We also continued tosupport the restoration of damaged childcare facilities in Mississippi, initiated in 2005.
Tsunami Recovery Efforts 
We committed $10 million over three yearsto help rebuild the devastated regions ofSouth Asia after the 2004 tsunami. Inconsultation with our local business units,government and potential partners, 
we conducted a comprehensive needsassessment in Indonesia to focus our 
efforts on building institutional and 
human capacity. Some examples of ourrecovery contributions include:
IProviding short-term vocational training
for 350 young people at Politeknik Caltex Riau, a polytechnic university, 
in partnership with the U.S. Agency 
for International Development (USAID). In 2006, more than 80 percent of thegraduates found jobs within three months. 
IPartnering with the government and
USAID to build a new polytechnic school in Aceh province that will provide training
in electronics, engineering and business
accounting.
IEstablishing five local financial institutions
and providing 500 loans in targeted areasin partnership with Mercy Corps.
Nigeria’s Niger Delta: An Update
Designed to help address the long-standingand complex development issues that affectcommunities and our operations in the
region, Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL)signed Global Memoranda of Understanding(GMOUs) with eight community groups and
The weavers at Putri Tujuh Weaving, a small business in Dumai, Indonesia, created the cloth shown on the cover of this report. The women weave vibrant Malay cloth, usually
worn during ceremonies and celebrations.213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 2223SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
state governments in the Niger Delta in
2006. The GMOUs are intended to graduallyshift control over the design, planning and
execution of community development
programs from CNL to the communitiesthrough newly created RegionalDevelopment Councils (RDCs). Together, the GMOUs reach more than 400 individual
communities, involving approximately600,000 community members. 
The RDCs consist of management, 
project, accounting and conflict-resolutioncommittees with representatives from the communities, CNL, state and federalgovernment, and nongovernmentalorganizations (NGOs). CNL supports the RDC process by providing initial funding for governance, administration, project and NGO partner costs. 
Local Nigerian-based NGOs are essential 
to the process. They chair many of thecommittees, provide technical assistanceand help resolve conflicts that arise from
time to time in the communities. In 2006, 30 NGOs performed Sustainable LivelihoodAssessments (SLAs), evaluations oflivelihoods that document, with communityinput, information such as demographics,income sources and patterns of conflict.Preliminary SLA findings indicate that
improved livelihoods are likely to come from private-public partnerships that
leverage existing assets rather than from
introducing new programs.
Using input from the SLAs, the RDCs are
now preparing three-year development plansthat they will implement once the plans areapproved. The plans will also be presented to other development organizations in the Niger Delta in the hope that theseorganizations will cofund selected projects.In 2006, milestones included the following:
ITraining was completed for more than 
300 RDC leaders and NGOs.
IMore than 40 comprehensive SLAs were completed to guide the preparationof community development plans for 
each RDC. 
ISmall pilot projects were initiated by the
RDCs in select communities to test theirinternal execution capabilities. Accounts
were produced for financial transactions.
With many projects in the Niger Delta vying
for support, an ongoing challenge of theGMOUs is balancing the communities’ desire
for quick results with the goals of promotingsustainable initiatives. A second challenge isnurturing the partnerships needed to resolvemultiple development issues in the region.CNL remains hopeful that communities willuse this model to design and implementprojects that strengthen their capacity andaddress the development needs they face. 
New Homes in Kazakhstan: An Update 
The relocation of the people of Sarykamys,Kazakhstan, was completed in 2006. Residentscould choose to relocate to either Atyrau,with a population of about 200,000, or NewKaraton, a rural community where they couldcontinue to raise livestock. The relocation wasconducted according to and using World Bank
guidelines, which included consultation withresidents, a baseline survey, and developmentand implementation of a resettlement action plan. Tengizchevroil, in which Chevron
holds a 50 percent interest, contributed $95 million for construction of new homes,schools and associated infrastructure,transitional support, and demolition and
reclamation of the old homes in Sarykamys.
Former residents of Sarykamys now occupy
430 new homes in the city of Atyrau and 321 new homes in New Karaton. New middle
schools in both locations opened onSeptember 1, 2006, for the school year.
VOLUNTEERING IN BRAZIL
Chevron Brasil Ltda. employees Nadjane
Oliveira and Patrick Samara donate time and attention to children at shelter Lar da Criança Feliz. This volunteer work has been recognized by local associations and
government. Over the past three years, thecompany has donated more than 860,000books to schools throughout the country.North America 47% 
Africa 23%Eurasia 11%
Asia-Pacific 10%
Latin America 4%
Middle East 4%
Europe 1%
Total $90.8 millionGlobal Community Investments in 2006
Includes Chevron’s share in Chevron Phillips Chemical 
Company, the Tengizchevroil joint venture, and theKarachaganak Petroleum Operation Consortium.213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 2324INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Measuring Success
Our Geothermal business unit in thePhilippines is undertaking innovative 
work to monitor and measure community
engagement programs. It has worked withlocal farmers and other partners to helpestablish an agricultural business programbased on cassava, a root crop, near
Chevron’s Tiwi and Mak-Ban geothermaloperations. The goal of the program is tobuild a free-standing, sustainable market for the cassava crop to support farmers and their families. Progress toward that 
goal is measured by:
IThe number of hectares that were
formerly unproductive and are now in use.In 2006, 30 hectares (7 4 acres) were
planted, exceeding the first-year target by
33 percent. Targets have been set for thenext five years, with the goal of planting atotal of 310 hectares (766 acres) by 2010. 
IThe number of farmers taking part in the
program. In 2006, 17 farmers participatedin the program. Our target is to increase
the number of farmers participating to
207 by 2010 in tandem with the increasein hectares planted.
IThe increase in annual income for farmers.
In 2006, the average income of farmersparticipating in the program increased by
$144 dollars, or 40 percent, from $360 
to $504.
The Chevron Management Institute 
In 2006, 27 leaders of nongovernmentalorganizations (NGOs) from Angola, Canada,
the Dominican Republic, Indonesia, Nigeria,
Thailand and the United States gathered atour headquarters for four days of intensiveleadership and management skills training.NGO leaders participated in the Chevron
Management Institute (CMI), a uniquetraining program that strives to increasethe capacity of NGOs to leverage theircapabilities and knowledge. Working withthe Leader to Leader Institute, CMI has
trained approximately 275 leaders from 
the United States and other countries since its establishment in 1995.
In advance of attending CMI, each partici-
pant received feedback on his or herperformance style from employers, peersand subordinates. Once onsite, participantsworked with Chevron coaches to interpretthe review data and develop personalaction plans to improve their leadershipskills. Participants had an opportunity 
to share best practices in nonprofitoperations with their peers. They alsoreceived a firm understanding of results-oriented project planning, includingeffective measurement, monitoring andreview. Participant feedback indicated that CMI provided a greater understandingof the dimensions of leadership, givingthem the confidence to stretch theirpersonal and organizational capabilities. 
From left: Joel Dimiyen Bisina, founder and regional director
of the Niger Delta Professionals for Development, speakswith Chevron’s Doug Uchikura and Dave Krattebol at the
2006 Chevron Management Institute.
“Chevron is to be congratulated both for its
vision of improving the world by training
nonprofit leaders and for organizing a 
first-class event. CMI gave me new tools 
to improve my performance and raised my expectations of what I can accomplishwithin my organization.”
Daniel J. O’Neil, Country Director 
Pan American Development FoundationSanto Domingo, Dominican Republic213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 2425SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
Human Rights
Chevron’s Human Rights Statement, adopted
in 2006, reaffirms our long-standing supportfor universal human rights. Grounded in 
The Chevron Way, it is both an expression 
of our values and part of how we conductour business. The statement provides aframework for constructive dialogue onhuman rights issues and explains what our
support for universal human rights means to us as both a business and a member ofsociety. It expr esses our commitment to
supporting human rights for our employeesand in the communities where we operate. 
A copy of our Human Rights Statement is
available on our Web site. [1]
The statement acknowledges our support 
for the ideals articulated in the UniversalDeclaration of Human Rights and theInternational Labor Organization’sDeclaration of Fundamental Principles andRights at Work. These documents includeprinciples that have long underpinned TheChevron Way, including respect for diversity
and nondiscrimination. In addition, Chevronrequires all employees to obey the laws ofthe countries where they live and work,abide by our policies, and comply with theChevron Business Conduct and Ethics Code.
To further enhance our employees’
understanding of human rights, we launcheda training program in July 2006 that wasdeveloped with internal input and external
expertise. The training contains an overviewof human rights principles, key international
instruments and voluntary initiatives,
including the Voluntary Principles onSecurity and Human Rights and the GlobalSullivan Principles. It outlines how humanrights can be supported in the context of 
the company’s role as a member of society. 
Senior managers and supervisors have
begun taking the training. To date, morethan 1,200 employees have completed thetraining, which will continue to be rolled outover the next three years.
In 2006, we also held a training workshop
for our Global Security advisors on theVoluntary Principles on Security and HumanRights. Our Global Security group continuesto include the Voluntary Principles as part ofthe materials they provide to local businessunits. The business units are accountable forimplementing the Voluntary Principles inaccordance with local laws and conditions.
The Global Sullivan Principles help guide the
way we work with communities. In July 2006,we reaffirmed our support for the principlesand participated in the Leon H. SullivanSummit in Abuja, Nigeria.
Chevron has supported the Voluntary Principles on
Security and Human Rights since their inception in2000. Global Security advisors from locations
worldwide participated in a training workshop on the
Voluntary Principles in 2006. Scott Taylor (above),Chevron’s director of Global Security, participated inthe workshop.
[1] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/human_rights/213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 25Angola Case Study
Since Chevron subsidiary Cabinda Gulf Oil Company Limited first
began drilling for oil in Angola nearly 50 years ago, Chevron hasgrown to become one of the country’s top producers, responsible
for one-third of its annual production. Among foreign oil firms
operating in Angola, we are the largest employer, with approximately3,000 employees and an additional 12,000 contracted workers. We have more than a dozen major projects in design or executionstages. With partners, our capital investment in Angola is expected
to exceed $10 billion through 2010. 
Angola is now the fastest-growing economy in Africa. In carrying
out our business, we support the country’s economic and socialdevelopment. 
Building a Vibrant Local Workforce and Strong Supply Chain
Part of our current and future success rests with strong safetyperformance, a healthy workforce and vibrant local suppliernetworks. Today, about 88 percent of our employees in Angola are Angolans. 
In 2006, our Southern Africa strategic business unit, which has a
majority of its operations in Angola, achieved a record 20 millionworkforce hours without a lost-time injury. This record is due, inpart, to our focus on the causes of workplace injuries and furtherintegrating our contractors into our companywide safety programs.
It is also noteworthy given the range of our operations and thediverse professional and cultural background of our contractors.
Chevron also provided employees and their families with HIV/AIDS
education, volunteer testing, counseling and treatment. In 2006, allchildren born to HIV-positive mothers participating in our programstested HIV-negative at birth. During peak malaria season, malaria-prevention initiatives at Chevron clinics led to a drop from about50 cases a day in 2005 to between 5 and 10 in 2006. Home visitsto employees and the donation of microscopes to medical labs thatoffer services to the community were also part of these initiatives.
Chevron also continued to develop local supplier networks in
Angola. A local content specialist works one to one with Angolansuppliers to deliver quality products and services. In 2006, as part
of our broader local supply efforts, we began to outsource ourtransportation services to an Angolan supplier. 
“Angola’s future depends on its ability to provide its citizens 
with improved social services and increased employmentopportunities. Improving the quality of life for Angola’s 
citizens is critical to rebuilding the country. Chevron is 
making a sustainable contribution to that effort through our investments in Angola’s energy industry, workforce andcommunities. Building on 50 years of partnership with theAngolan people, we are committed to working with them 
to help achieve the prosperity and stability they seek.” 
Jim Blackwell, Managing Director 
Chevron Southern Africa Strategic Business Unit
Engaging With Stakeholders to Reach Common Goals
Chevron holds a 36 percent interest in the Angola LiquefiedNatural Gas (Angola LNG) project, a multibillion-dollar venture
located in Soyo on Angola’s northwest coast. Planning has been
under way since the late 1990s. Once in operation, the facility isexpected to process 5 million metric tons of natural gas per yearcollected from offshore oil and gas operations. Gas supplied to the Angola LNG plant will be a combination of gas produced in
association with oil that would previously have been flared orreinjected and of nonassociated gas produced from dedicated wells that tap gas reservoirs (see project facts, below right). 
Our integrated Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) process is being used in the development of the Angola LNG project. Stakeholder engagement began duringthe site selection phase in 2004. Since that time, more thana hundred meetings and workshops have been held to provideproject information and seek the views of community healthrepresentatives, local busine sses, the fishing community, churches,
traditional leaders and other stakeholders. Radio programs alsoprovide communities with updates on the project.
Left: Dr. Vanda Andrade, medical director for Chevron’s Southern Africa strategic business unit, says Chevron’s efforts in the commun ity have significantly reduced 
the transmission of HIV/AIDS. Center: Through the Angola Partnership Initiative, Chevron helps support the formation of sustainable enterprises, such as corn farming  in 
the Huambo province. Right: Celestino Cariongo is a lead operator on the North Nemba Platform offshore Angola. About 88 percent of our employees in Angola are Angolans.
26INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 2627SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
ANGOLA LNG PROJECT FACTS
Timeline
Construction is expected to begin in 2007, with operation startup planned for 2010–2011.
The Process
INatural gas from oil and gas production facilities operating offshore will be collected 
and transported to an onshore facility for processing. 
IA portion of the natural gas will supply local needs, and the remainder will be exported.
The Benefits
IProvide energy, technology transfer, jobs and training. 
IExpected to eliminate routine gas flaring from several offshore facilities. This will result in reductions of greenhouse gas emissions from current oil production activities. A three-stage stakeholder engagement process was used to
identify issues, receive input and develop solutions on a range ofissues. For example, to address villagers’ concerns about protecting
their homes from snakes and other reptiles displaced during
clearance of the construction site, a project herpetologist iscapturing the reptiles and relocating them to remote areas underthe authority of local environmental regulators. A plan is also inplace to route plant pipelines around a highly valued primary forest
while dredging-contract provisions protect sensitive mangrove andfishing areas. Finally, an impact mitigation and development planfor fishing is being prepared to support the livelihoods of localfishing communities. The ESHIA process also addr esses the need
for local job creation and how best to use Angolan labor, goods and
services during construction and operations. 
The results of the as sessment phase were published in 2006 in a
comprehensive disclosure report. Another round of stakeholder
meetings and workshops were conducted to review the findings inLuanda, M’Banza Kongo and Soyo during the fall of 2006 and early2007. The meetings were widely advertised and attended by morethan 300 people. Input from these meetings will be incorporatedinto an ESHIA amendment document to be published in 2007. 
The ESHIA process has succ essfully helped the Angola LNG project
improve decision quality, meet regulatory requirements and gain
community support. A project community center and communityliaison officers are located near the site to facilitate outreach and communications with local communities. A project Web siteprovides updates, documented results of engagement efforts and a platform for questions. 
Combining Community Engagement 
and Environmental StewardshipFishing in the Cabinda Bay area is an important means of incomefor local communities and a commercial resource for the region. In 2006, the Health, Environment and Safety staff of Chevronsubsidiary Cabinda Gulf Oil Company Limited undertook a study to establish a baseline of contaminant levels of fish in Cabinda Bay. The local fishing community was consulted in advance of thestudy and assisted in fish collection from offshore and near-shore
fishing grounds. The baseline is expected to be compared withfuture samples.
The study also helped build institutional capacity by transferring
analytical capabilities from the company to the National Institutefor Fisheries Research and the Cabinda Department of Agriculture,Fisheries, Environment and Rural Development. 
Partnering for Capacity Building
Partnerships help build local capacity and improve living standards.In Angola, the Angola Partnership Initiative (API) was designed tocreate jobs and training, microlending, and business development.
In 2006, we launched two new projects in partnership with the 
U.S. Agency for International Development within the API frame-work. The first project, the Municipal Development Program,supports the Angolan government’s goal of strengthening localdecision making with broad community participation by buildingmunicipal and community-based organizations’ planning, budgetingand project implementation capacity. The program is beingexecuted in Andulo, Belize, Cuito Cuanavale and Tchicala Tchiloango.The second project, the ProAgro Angola program, contributes tothe diversification of the Angolan economy by offering farmerstechnical assistance to increase yields and improve productivity,
processing practices and marketing strategies. This five-yearprogram will also help link small and medium-size farms withsuppliers and buyers. 
Search for Common Ground: A Proactive Approach 
to Conflict ResolutionIn 2006, we began working with Search for Common Ground tostrengthen local capacity to address conflicts constructively.Search for Common Ground has been working in Angola since 1996 to support the national reconciliation process. With Chevronfunding, Search for Common Ground established an office inCabinda and began to engage with local fishing communities to help identify their needs and address issues that contribute to conflict in the region. 
A model of the planned Angola LNG facility.213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 2728INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Chevron is committed to providing affordable, reliable energy supplies 
to meet growing global demand in an environmentally responsible way. We apply our expertise to address complex technical challenges, protect 
the environment and mitigate the environmental impact of our operations.
On the following pages, we summarize our performance in 2006 and discuss
climate change, our portfolio of renewable energy projects and how we arestandardizing our environmental management practices across the company.Environment and Climate Change
213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 2829SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
“DIVERSIFYING OUR SOURCES OF
ENERGY IS ESSENTIAL TO MEET THE
WORLD ’S GROWING DEMAND FOR
ENERGY IN AN ENVIRONMENTALLYSOUND WAY
. DEVELOPING THE
INFRASTRUCTURE TO PRODUCEAND DISTRIBUTE NEW FORMSOF ENERGY
, SUCH AS BIOFUELS , 
AT THE NECESSARY SCALE ISA SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGE
.
THAT’S WHY OUR PORTFOLIO OF
TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENTS ANDSTRATEGIC RESEARCH ALLIANCESIS SO IMPORTANT
. TO SUCCEED , 
WE NEED ENERGY SOLUTIONSTHAT ARE INNOVATIVE
, PRACTICAL
AND ENDURING .”
DONPAUL
VICEPRESIDENT AND CHIEF
TECHNOLOGY OFFICER
CHEVRON CORPORATION
Alicia Boutan, vice president of Business Development for Chevron Technology Ventures (CTV), visits the Galveston,
Texas, biodiesel facility, currently under construction. CTV has an equity position in the plant, one of the first suchlarge-scale plants in the United States. The facility will have the potential to produce 100 million gallons per year of
this clean-burning renewable fuel.
213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 2930INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
At Chevron, we recognize and share the
concerns of governments and the publicabout climate change. The use of fossil 
fuels to meet the world’s energy needs is 
a contributor to an increase in greenhousegases (GHGs) – mainly CO
2and methane – 
in the earth’s atmosphere. There is a
widespread view that this increase is leading
to climate change, with adverse effects on
the environment. 
We took early action to create a compre-
hensive plan, known as the Fourfold Plan of Action on Climate Change, which is in the fifth year of implementation. We are:
IReducing emissions of GHGs and
increasing energy efficiency.
IInvesting in research, development andimproved technology.
IPursuing business opportunities inpromising, innovative energy technologies.
ISupporting flexible and economicallysound policies and mechanisms thatprotect the environment.
Climate change is a global concern. Nation
by nation, coordinated frameworks areessen tial. Fragmented actions have the
potential for undue economic cost without
effectively mitigating climate change risk.
In alignment with our Fourfold Plan of Action
on Climate Change, the following principlesare essential to ensure flexible andeconomically sound policies in light ofuncertainties that exist: 
IGlobal Engagement: The reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions must be shared
equitably by the top emitting countries ofthe world. We support equitable sharing
via long-term and coordinated nationalframeworks. 
IEnergy Security: Fossil fuels are expected
to dominate energy supply for decades 
to come. Climate policy must recognize
the role these critical energy sources 
play to ensure security of supply andeconomic growth.
IMaximize Conservation: Energy efficiency
and conservation are the most immediate
and cost-effective sources of new energy,
with no GHG emissions. Government
programs to promote energy efficiencyand conservation must continue andshould be enhanced.
IMeasured and Flexible Approach: 
GHG reduction objectives must avoid adisruptive economic impact and allow for
realistic turnover in capital and a phase 
in of new, low-carbon technologies.Periodic “check points” are advised in light of new scientific and economicimpact information.
IBroad, Equitable Treatment: Broad and
equitable treatment of all sectors of the
economy is necessary to ensure no sector
or company is disproportionately burdened.
IEnable Technology: Government support
and partnerships with the private sector
for pre-competitive research and
development in carbon mitigation and
clean energy technologies must continueat an accelerated pace.
ITransparency: The costs, risks, trade-offs
and uncertainties associated with such
climate policies must be openly
communicated. 
For more information, visit our Web site. [1] Climate Change 
[1] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/environment/global_climate.asp1 Chevron’s GHG emissions data are reported on an equity basis for all busine sses in which Chevron has an interest except
where noted below. The following entities are not c urrently included in the Chevron corporate greenhouse gas inventory:
Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, Dynegy Inc., the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, Azerbaijan International Operating
Company, the Chad/Cameroon pipeline joint venture, Caltex Australia Limited’s Lytton and Kurnell refineries, and other
refineries in which Chevron has an equity interest of 16 percent or less. These are entities over which we do not have fulloperational control or which do not generally follow our corporate GHG inventory protocol or a compatible protocol.
2 Product emissions are calculated based on total 2006 upstream liquids, gas and coal production figures from Chevron’s
2006 Annual Report. The emission factors used are from the American Petroleum Institute’s Compendium of Greenhouse
Gas Emissions Estimations Methodologies for the Oil and Gas Industry , published in 2004.Reducing GHG Emissions
In 2006, our operations emitted 61.9 millionmetric tons of CO
2equivalent, well under
our goal of 68.5 million metric tons of CO
2equivalent.1, 3For 2007, we are setting a
preliminary goal of 63.5 million metric tonsof CO
2equivalent. We intend to manage 
our emissions while growing our business.Chevron continues to execute energy
efficiency improvements and to reduce
flaring and venting emissions. 
The primary sources of our GHG emissions
are combustion, which occurs duringoperations, and flaring and venting ofnatural gas, a byproduct of crude oilproduction (see “GHG Emissions by Source”chart on page 31). In 2006, these combinedsources accounted for more than 90 percentof our GHG emissions. 
Our products resulted in emissions from
combustion of 395 million metric tons ofCO
2in 2006.2
Chevron’s international upstream organization
adopted a flaring and venting standard in2005 that aligns with the World Bank’s
voluntary standard. It requires all new capital
projects be developed without continuousassociated-gas flaring and venting, wherefeasible. The international upstream standardalso requires existing continuous associated-
gas flares and vents to be eliminated by 2010and 2008, respectively, wherever feasible.Our business units have identified eightimportant flaring and venting reductionprojects in Angola, Kazakhstan and Nigeria
that are expected to produce significant
reductions to GHG emissions by 2010. 213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 3031SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
2006 41
37.4
38.1
38.9
38.816.1
14.7
14.9
16.2
15.82005
2004
2003
20024.8
7.0
7.7
7.0
7.1GHG Emissions by Source3
Millions of metric tons of CO 2equivalent
Combustion   Flaring and venting   Other
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2006
2005
2004
2003
19922002
2001
200035.2
34.1
33.4
35.2
34.823.8
22.4
24.0
23.7
24.32.9
2.5
3.2
3.2
2.6GHG Emissions by Sector3
Millions of metric tons of CO 2equivalent
Upstream   Downstream   Other
Total GHG Emissions by Type3
Millions of metric tons of CO 2equivalent
Direct Indirect Grid Credits
2006 65.3 –2.5 –0.9
2005 61.3 – 1.6 –0.72004 61.8 –0.2 –0.92003 62.6 0.3 –0.92002 62.8 –0.2 –0.9Chevron Energy Index
1992 = base 100
73
76
76
78
79
79
83
“Chevron’s commitment to managing and
reducing greenhouse gas emissions began
in 2001, when we began executing ourFourfold Plan of Action on Climate Change.Under this plan, we established a
systematic protocol for estimating GHGemissions, and we now require our majorcapital projects to include a review of theseemissions, including the impact of carbon-associated costs. We have continued to
A COMMITMENT SINCE 2001
improve our own energy efficiency as 
well as help our customers do the same. At the same time, we are investing in the development of advanced energytechnologies and deploying commercially
proven renewable energy technologiesaround the world.” 
Georgia Callahan, General Manager 
Global Policy and StrategyChevron Health, Environment and Safety3 Chevron’s net increase of approximately 3 million metric tons of CO 2-equivalent emissions from 2005 to 2006
can be attributed primarily to accounting of emissions from former Unocal assets for the full year of 2006,
compared with just five months in 2005 (Chevron acquired Unocal in August 2005).
The increased emissions are offset by material decreases attributable to reduced flaring as well as to improved
estimates of emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas, as part of ongoing improvements in environmentalreporting. Chevron’s business units continue to make improvements in energy efficiency, as described on page 32, which helps moderate growth in emissions.
Chevron’s 2005 greenhouse gas emissions have been restated from 59.7 million to 59.0 million metric tons 
of CO
2equivalent as a result of continuing data analysis and improvements in our environmental reporting. 
Due to rounding, individual figures may not sum to the 2006 GHG emissions total of 61.9 million metric tons of CO
2equivalent.See page 32 for more information.We require that capital projects evaluate
GHG emissions profiles, opportunities forreduction and potential opportunities from
carbon credits. All capital projects of more
than $5 million must conduct an initialanalysis to estimate emissions and theirpotential range of carbon costs and benefits.Analyses are integrated into the capital
projects planning process. Projects of morethan $50 million must submit results fromthe full as sessment before they are funded.
See “Supporting Flexible and EconomicallySound Mechanisms” on page 32 for more on
carbon markets and trading mechanisms.
Capitalizing on Energy Efficiency 
Exploration, production, shipping andrefining operations require a significantamount of energy. The sources of thisenergy are primarily natural gas, crude oil,liquefied petroleum gas, diesel fuel andelectricity. As existing production fieldsmature, more energy is needed to producethe same amount of crude oil and naturalgas. Also, additional energy is required as oil
and gas production increases and refinerythroughput increases. The need for cleanerproducts also increases the amount ofenergy needed to run our operations.Consequently, improving the energyefficiency of our operations is increasinglyimportant from an environmental andbusiness perspective. The cost of energy to the company is substantial, averaging $3 billion annually from 2001 to 2005 andreaching $5.3 billion in 2006. The totalenergy consumption of our operated assetsin 2006 was 900 trillion Btu. 
50 100213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 3132INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Sequestration Leadership Forum workshops,
“Near-Term Opportunities for CarbonCapture and Storage.” The workshop was
intended to support the Group of Eight’s
(G8) plan to accelerate development andcommercialization of carbon capture andstorage. Experts who attended the workshopexchanged viewpoints on policy and on
technical and commercial information.Additional workshops are scheduled forCanada and Norway in 2007, with finalrecommendations for near-termopportunities to be reported back to the 
G8 leaders at their 2008 meeting in Japan.
Since 2004, our climate change specialists
have acted as industry-expert contributorsand review editors for key publications bythe Intergovernmental Panel on ClimateChange (IPCC). These include the CarbonDioxide Capture and Storage special report,the National Emissions Inventory ReportingGuidelines, and the Mitigation of ClimateChange section of the Fourth As sessment
Report, to be published in 2007. The IPCC
was established in 1988 by the WorldMeteorological Organization and the UnitedNations Environment Programme to as sess
scientific, technical and socioeconomicinformation relevant to climate change.
[1] www.chevron.com/social_responsibility/energy_conservation/In 2006, we beat our target on the Chevron
Energy Index, which measures energy use ateach facility and for each business activity
(see chart on page 31). Chevron achieved a
level of 73 on the index, an improvement ofthree points over 2005 and two points betterthan our goal of 75. Today, our operationsare 27 percent more energy efficient than
they were in 1992, the base year. Thisimprovement translates into lower GHGemissions required to produce our products.For more information on the Chevron EnergyIndex and our energy efficiency strategies,
please visit our Web site. [1] 
Our business units continue to make steady
progress each year in improving their energyefficiency. Continuing this trend requiresconstant focus and progress on our keyenergy efficiency opportunities, includingdesigning energy efficiency into our capitalprojects, keeping existing equipment efficientthrough proper maintenance and upgrading,and auditing and benchmarking our progress.Cogenerating power and steam in our
facilities has also been an important part ofour overall strategy since the early 1990s.
Supporting Innovation in Technology
Development and DeploymentIn August 2006, we hosted the first of threeInternational Energy Agency and Carbon
The Sanha Condensate Project in Angola was designed to address the largest single source of flaring from our operations. The pr oject prevents flaring by capturing
associated natural gas, producing liquefied petroleum gas for export, and reinjecting produced gas into the Sanha reservoir.Supporting Flexible and Economically
Sound MechanismsChevron participates in policy development
and decision making on energy issues at the
international and national levels, and in theUnited States at the state level. We alsoengage in constructive dialogues with abroad range of stakeholders on international
mechanisms that provide flexible, market-based, economically sound means to reduceemissions. Since its inception in 2004, ourcarbon markets team has continued tosupport compliance efforts with the EU
Emissions Trading Scheme and to pursue
opportunities for credits under the KyotoProtocol.
In September 2006, the state of California
approved legislation mandating that GHGemissions in the state be reduced to 1990levels by 2020. The state government iscurrently designing a regulatory programthat will cover emissions from the company’supstream and downstream operations in thestate, as well as developing a low-carbon
fuels standard. This would essentially lowerthe overall carbon emissions created bytransportation fuels in California. We areworking closely with state officials and thebusiness community to help regulatorsdesign an efficient, achievable and equitableframework for busine sses to use in mee ting
these new mandates. 
213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 3233SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
Renewable Energy
[2] www.chevronenergy.com/Global energy demand is expected to increase
by 50 percent by 2030. While conventionalfossil fuels are expected to continue to 
be a primary source of energy for decades,
changing market dynamics and higherenergy prices are accelerating the pace andscale at which renewable energy is becominga part of mainstream energy supplies.
Chevron is a leading producer of renewable
energy in the oil and gas industry and one ofthe largest producers of geothermal energyin the world. We currently have installedcapacity to produce 1,156 megawatts ofgeothermal energy. In 2006, we added astrategic intent to our strategic plan toinvest in renewable energy technologies. We will also capture profitable positions in important renewable sources of energy.As markets and regulatory requirementscontinue to evolve, we plan to build ourexisting portfolio of renewable energy with a focus on transportation and powergeneration. Chevron has invested more than $2 billion in renewable and alternative
energy and in energy efficiency servicessince 2002. We expect to invest more than$2.5 billion from 2007 through 2009 inthese same areas. 
In 2006, we formed strategic alliances with
government, academic and other institutionsto focus on emerging technologies,demonstration projects and application of
proven technologies. We also announcedseveral new joint initiatives to develop
environmentally responsible and
commercially viable technologies andprocesses to recover crude oil and natural
gas from western U.S. oil shale sources, analternative source of energy. 
Renewable Energy for Power Generation
Geothermal energy, used for electricityproduction by utilities, constitutes most of our investment in renewable energy.Projects we operate in Indonesia and the Philippines have produced a total ofapproximately 128 million megawatt hoursof electricity since 1979. Compared with coal-fired generation, this represents avoidingapproximately 77 million metric tons of CO
2.
We also work with institutions and
busine sses to dev elop projects that provide
electricity from solar, wind, biomass, and
other emerging and proven technologies,largely through Chevron Energy Solutions(CES). CES, a wholly owned subsidiary,
provides public institutions and busine sses
with projects that increase energy efficiencyand reliability, reduce operating costs, andbenefit the environment. Customers includeU.S. federal, state and local government
agencies; educational institutions; and
commercial and industrial busine sses,including Chevron operating companies.CES’ projects are funded primarily by energysavings gained through the installation of efficient equipment and often includerenewable and alternative powertechnologies. More information about CES can be found on our Web site. [2]
Alternative Transport Fuels
Chevron Technology Ventures, a subsidiaryof Chevron, has led our alternative transportfuels and energy technology development,
primarily biofuels and hydrogen technology.Two primary goals of this work are todetermine whether these technologies canmeet our standards for quality, reliabilityand efficiency and whether they can pass a
market-commerciality and economics test.
As a transportation fuel, hydrogen can be
made from a variety of conventional and
renewable energy sources. However, thereare significant challenges inherent in makinghydrogen commercially viable. We willcontinue to share accurate information
about the costs and benefits of hydrogentechnology with policy makers and otherinterested parties. 
Chevron is taking a practical approach to
hydrogen technology by developing public-private collaborations, commissioninghydrogen demonstration stations and
“World energy demand is growing, and 
we need to find ways to meet it that 
make sense from both an economic andenvironmental perspective. Chevron’sstrategic research alliance with Georgia
Tech reflects a shared commitment todevelop advanced technology that can
DEVELOPING STRATEGIC RESEARCH ALLIANCES
provide clean, affordable energy 
through the use of cellulosic biofuelsand hydrogen fuels.”
Roger Webb
Director, Strategic Energy InstituteGeorgia Institute of Technology213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:35 PM  Page 3334INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Biofuels 
Biofuels can contribute to meeting theworld’s growing demand for transportation
fuels. In 2006, Chevron created a biofuels
business unit to advance technology andpursue commercial opportunities related toethanol and biodiesel. The new business unitcompleted the acquisition of a 22 percent
interest in one of the first large-scalefacilities in the United States, located in
Galveston, Texas, to produce biodiesel.Compared with conventional diesel, biodiesel produces lower carbon monoxideand hydrocarbon emissions. The facility will initially produce 20 million gallons offuel per year, which represents a nearly 27 percent increase in total U.S. biodieselproduction of 75 million gallons in 2005. The facility has the capability to expand
operations to produce 100 million gallonsper year.
The business unit is also focusing on the
next generation of cellulosic technologies,those that rely on agricultural wastematerials rather than potential food crops as a feedstock. To date, it has establishedbiofuels research alliances with:
IThe U.S. Department of Energy’s
National Renewable Energy Laboratory,to research and develop new
technologies to convert cellulosic
biomass into biofuels.
IThe Georgia Institute of Technology’s
Strategic Energy Institute, to develop andresearch commercially viable proc esses
for the production of transportation fuels
from renewable resources such as forestand agricultural waste.
IThe University of California, Davis, 
to pursue next-generation biofuels.
We are also in the second year of a
collaborative project with the state ofCalifornia, General Motors and PacificEthanol to evaluate E85 for its consumeracceptance as well as technical and
distribution factors. E85 is composed of 85 percent renewable ethanol and 15 percent gasoline.Chevron Energy Solutions engineered and installed a
unique system to turn inedible kitchen grease intobiogas that fuels a cogeneration unit in a wastewater
treatment plant in Millbrae, California. More than
3,000 gallons of restaurant grease are delivered tothe facility each day. Microorganisms in the plant’sdigester tanks “eat” the grease and other organicmatter, naturally producing methane gas — a source
of energy that would otherwise be a greenhouse gasif released into the atmosphere. Kevin Cesar (above)is a plant employee.implementing technologies in real-world
applications. We are engaged in numerousprojects that are designed to provide
valuable experience designing and operating
hydrogen fuel systems. 
Examples of our investments in hydrogen
technology include the following:
IIn Florida, Chevron Technology Ventures 
is collaborating with the state, Ford MotorCompany and Progress Energy to design
and build the state’s first advanced
hydrogen energy station. The station, whichbecame operational in early 2007, will fuela fleet of hydrogen internal-combustion-engine buses to be used by multiple vehicle
operators at the Orlando airport.
IIn California, Chevron Technology Ventures
is working with one of the state’s largestpublic transit operators, Alameda–Contra
Costa Transit Authority, on a project
inaugurated in 2006 that has producedhydrogen fuel onsite for a fleet of fuel cell buses and other hydrogen-poweredvehicles. The buses are used to transport
customers throughout the San FranciscoBay Area on traditional routes. In Chino,California, Chevron Technology Ventureshas used proprietary integration tech-
nologies since 2005 to reform natural 
gas into hydrogen at its demonstration
station at the Hyundai-Kia America Technical Center.
These projects are providing informationcritical to effectively integrating hydrogentechnologies with existing energy supplysystems. Chevron will continue to explorethe most efficient and cost-effective ways to address the complex challenges ofcommercializing hydrogen fuels. Visit theChevron Technology Ventures Web site for
more information on specific hydrogenprojects. [1]
[1] http://technologyventures.chevron.com/213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 3435SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
Environmental Management
We are committed to protecting the
environment by minimizing and mitigatingenvironmental impact throughout the life
cycle of our operations. Doing so is one of
our business objectives and reflects thevision, values and business prioritiesdescribed in The Chevron Way.
Our Operational Excellence Management
System (OEMS) is the framework forachieving world-class environmentalperformance. Lloyd’s Register QualityAssurance has attested that the require-
ments of OEMS are in alignment with, 
and in some respects exceed, the require-ments of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, the leading global standards for excellence in environmental management and health and safety management, respectively. See page 5 for further discussion of OEMS.
Implementing Our Environmental Strategy
In 2006, we continued to implement ourthree strategic priorities for environmentalperformance as established in 2004:
defining world-class standards, measuringand communicating performance, anddemonstrating continual performanceimprovement.
Defining World-Class Standards
We continued to strengthen OEMS in 2006by establishing environmental managementstandards. At the corporate level, wedeployed a corporate risk managementprocess that provides a standardizedapproach for identifying and managing risksthat include health, the environment andsafety for both new and existing facilitiescompanywide. We also developed acorporate Environmental, Social and HealthImpact As sessment (ESHIA) process that
extends to all parts of the company. Finally, a corporate Third-Party WasteStewardship Process was developed to helpmanage our risks by establishing uniformstandards for third-party waste facilities.
At an operating-company level, our
international upstream organization adopteda standard for the management of producedwater, a byproduct of the oil and gasproduction process. 
Taken together, applying these new
performance standards demonstrates ourcommitment to protecting the environment.
“Stakeholder engagement is a cornerstone
of the ESHIA process. It begins early in
the project evaluation and design phase
and continues throughout a project’s life.
The dialogue it establishes provides amechanism for the community and otherexternal stakeholders to share theirexpectations and concerns about
potential impacts. It also provides a way for Chevron to communicate withstakeholders on an ongoing basis.”
Charles “Buzz” Morris, General Manager
Health, Environment and Safety
Chevron Global Upstream
California’s semi-arid San Joaquin Valley is a major U.S. agricultural area and needs more water to supplement
existing water supplies. Since 1996, Chevron has worked with the Cawelo Water District to export produced waterfrom the Kern River oil field into a reservoir that irrigates more than 46,000 acres (18,600 hectares) of agricultural
land. Steve Harris (above) is from the laboratory that tests the reservoir’s water. 213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 3536INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Integration of Biodiversity Into OEMS
Biodiversity refers to the variety of life onearth and includes ecosystems, species and
genes, and the ecological proc esses that
support them. We recognize the importance
of biodiversity conservation and support itthrough our performance and engagementon the issue. 
During 2006, we developed guidance on 
how to address biodiversity-related issuesand integrated this guidance into ESHIA andrisk management. We also continued to playan active role in external initiatives tosupport biodiversity conservation, primarilythrough the Biodiversity Working Group of the International Petroleum IndustryEnvironmental Conservation Association and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. These groups havedeveloped tools designed to supportindustry performance on biodiversity.
Chevron provides financial assistance to 
a wide range of organizations involved in
biodiversity conservation. In 2006, supportwas focused on improving the quality 
and availability of key biodiversity data for decision making by conservation
organizations, governments, business 
and other sectors (please see below).
To further contribute to the availability 
of biodiversity data, we have worked with the National Oceanography Centre,Southampton, United Kingdom, and otherorganizations on Project SERPENT(Scientific and Environmental ROVPartnership Using Existing IndustrialTechnology). (ROV stands for remotelyoperated vehicle.) The groundbreakingproject collects biological data from remotedeep-sea environments, made availablethrough company offshore oil and gasactivities. The information is shared withscience, conservation groups and thegeneral public to increase knowledge andawareness of these relatively unexploredmarine environments. Our Canadian,European and U.S. Gulf of Mexico operations are actively engaged in theSERPENT partnership.
A NATURE PRESERVE IN NIGERIA
In partnership with the Nigerian
Conservation Center, Chevron developed the Lekki Conservation Center, established in1992. It serves as a place for environmentalresearch and youth education. It is also a
preserve for local flora and fauna, such asthis red-headed agama.Measuring and Communicating Performance
Chevron has been measuring andcommunicating our performance in spills,
energy efficiency and greenhouse gases
since 2002. In 2006, at the corporate level,we began compiling baseline data to trackwater and waste performance. Compilingand analyzing this information at the
corporate level will allow us to as sess 
overall performance and compare therelative performance of business units to drive continuous improvement.
Demonstrating Continual Improvement 
Our performance in air emissions andpetroleum spills is summarized in the data charts on page 37. The volume ofpetroleum spilled was less than half that of nonhurricane-related spills in 2005. Our chemical spill volume for 2006 was 335,7 43 kilograms, with a total of 99,246 kilograms recovered. As described in the Climate Change section of this report,we saw strong performance trends in ourGHG emissions and energy efficiency.
The following organizations involved in biodiversity
conservation received financial assistance from Chevron in 2006:
IWorld Conservation Union for its Species InformationService and Conservation Commons projects.
IUnited Nations Environment Programme WorldConservation Monitoring Centre for its Project Proteus,addressing the World Database of Protected Areas.
IConservation International and NatureServe forbiodiversity database–related work.SUPPORT FOR BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 3637SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
This octopus was photographed in water
depths of 7,671 feet (2,338 meters) in theOrphan Basin, 250 miles (400 km) off theNewfoundland, Canada, coast in the NorthAtlantic. This is just one of many species 
we recorded for the international scientificproject called SERPENT. Remotely operatedvehicles used during drilling operations are mounted with high-resolution camerasystems that provide rare visual access for 
DOCUMENTING DEEP-SEA SPECIES
scientific researchers. Initial results include
exceptional images that have expanded therange of several deepwater fish species andmay result in the discovery of rare or newspecies. By participating in projects such 
as SERPENT, and through broadly sharinginformation, we hope to contribute to anincreased understanding and awareness ofmarine life in these unexplored frontiers.VOCs SOx NOx
20063 0 3 4 2 3
2005 25 35 22
2004 22 36 23
2003 25 31 24
2002 25 33 24U.S. Refining Air Emissions1
Metric tons per million barrels pr ocessed
20068 0 3
2005 846
2004 986
2003 1,145
2002 1,502Petroleum Spills
Number of spills
1 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) derive primarily from flaring and venting, fugitive leaks from equipment (such as 
valves, pumps and compr essors), and flashing gas. Nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) occur during combustion.
2 Global NOx emissions increased by approximately 13 percent compared with 2005. This is primarily due to reporting
emissions from former Unocal assets for the entire year in 2006, compared with just five months in 2005 (Chevron
acquired Unocal in August 2005). This increase was somewhat offset by a decrease in NOx emissions from one business
unit due to a reduction in flaring, which also resulted in an associated decrease of SOx emissions. Global VOCs emissionsfrom Chevron’s operations decreased compared with 2005. This decrease was due primarily to improved estimates ofemissions as part of ongoing improvements in our environmental reporting.Upstream Downstream Other
VOCs 2006 357,727 26,100 87
2005 445,049 23,442 212
2004 402,362 24,330 80
2003 N/A N/A N/A
SOx 2006 82,922 25,574 9,714
2005 87,455 23,986 7,433
2004 96,809 26,091 10,499
2003 111,050 29,010 11,907
NOx 2006 113,001 16,020 9,083
2005 97,829 15,837 8,250
2004 89,764 13,877 10,656
2003 100,046 13,109 12,475Global Air Emissions by sector1, 2
Metric tons2006
2005
2004
2003383,914
468,703
426,772
N/AGlobal Air Emissions1, 2
Metric tons
Upstream   Downstream   Other
VOCs
2006
2005
2004
2003118,210
118,87 4
133,399
151,967SOx
2006
2005
2004
2003138,104
121,916
114,297
125,630NOx3 Of the total volume of spills in 2005 (47,934 barrels),
more than 73 percent (35,178 barrels) were hurricane-
related. This compares with 20 percent (3,100 barrels) 
of the total volume of spills in 2004 that were
hurricane-related.2006
2005
2004
2003
20029,995
7,443
7,153
8,555
8,53511,276
10,416
11,637
10,501
11,3567,598
6,675
7, 303
7,990
8,213U.S. Refining Air Emissions1
Metric tons
VOCs   SOx   NOx
2006
2005
2004
2003
20026,099
47,9343
15,514
26,540
54,6963,923
11,202
9,905
10,659
27,805Petroleum Spills
Volume in barrels
Total volume   Volume recovered213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 37and performed in accordance with
Ecuadorian government requirements.
We continue to keep the public informed
about this lawsuit through updates, in bothEnglish and Spanish, on our Web site. [1] 
Environmental Expenditures 
Using definitions and guidelines established by the American PetroleumInstitute, Chevron estimated its worldwideenvironmental spending in 2006 atapproximately $2.2 billion for its
consolidated companies. Included in 
these expenditures were approximately 
38INTRODUCTION PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EXECUTIVE INTERVIEW
Environmental, Health and Safety Fines 
and Settlements 
US$ millions
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
Total paid 4.28 3.99 6.33 4.27 8.77
Total number 278 470 469 577 699PT. Chevron Pacific Indonesia employees participated in a regional oil spill exercise in Dumai, Indonesia, in April 2006.
The scenario for this drill was a ship-to-ship collision causing a range of problems – search and rescue for missingpersonnel, fire fighting from the dock, and containing a large oil spill.Preventing Shipping Oil Spills
By year-end 2006, all Chevron-operatedvessels were double-hulled. More than 
90 percent of the chartered v essels we use
to transport products also are double-hulled. 
Emergency Preparation and Response
Chevron’s ability to deliver world-classperformance rests in part on managingroutine aspects of our business and ourresponse to unplanned incidents. Ourcommitment to sound emergency responsepreparedness and capability is integral to ouroperations. Trained emergency responseteams are able to rapidly respond toincidents. Preparedness plans are also inplace for hurricanes, pandemic influenza andearthquakes. We conduct training and drillson an ongoing basis and work collaborativelywith industry groups to share lessons learnedand resources on emergency preparedness. 
Update on Ecuador Litigation
Chevron continued in 2006 to vigorouslydefend itself against litigation allegingenvironmental damage from Texaco
Petroleum Company’s (Texpet) formeroperations in Ecuador. Texpet was a minoritypartner in an oil-producing consortium from1964 to 1992 with state-owned oil companyPetroecuador. Chevron is challenging thelawsuit on both scientific and legal grounds.
At the close of 2006, the court had
completed 45 scheduled field inspections.The overwhelming body of evidenceobtained by Chevron’s nominated expertsshows there are no significant oil-relatedrisks to health and the environment in theareas remediated by Texpet. The Texpetremediation program was approved by thegovernment of Ecuador, which in 1998granted a full release of claims and liabilitiesto Texpet and its affiliated companies. As such, Texpet met all of its obligations $870 million of environmental capitalexpenditures and $1.3 billion of costsassociated with the prevention, control,abatement or elimination of hazardoussubstances and pollutants from operating,closed or divested sites, and theabandonment and restoration of sites.
[1] www.texaco.com/sitelets/ecuador/en/213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 3839SOCIOECONOMIC ENVIR ONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE RESOURCES
About This Report Glossary
This report covers 2006 data and activities. We
also occasionally mention events that took placein early 2007 when they help provide a clearer
picture of our performance. This report covers
our owned or operated busine sses and does not
address the performance of our suppliers,
contractors or partners, unless otherwise noted.
All financial information is reported in U.S.
dollars. Our previous report was published inApril 2006 and covered 2005 data and activities.
Information contained in this report has not been
subject to external assurance, with the exceptionof data included in the company’s consolidatedfinancial statements.
We continue to be informed by reporting
frameworks and guidelines that include theGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on VoluntarySustainability Reporting, published in 2005 by the International Petroleum IndustryEnvironmental Conservation Association (IPIECA)and the American Petroleum Institute (API). We have included an index to help readers find
information corresponding to the GRI and
API/IPIECA indicators (see next page).
Cautionary Statement Relevant 
to Forward-Looking InformationThis Corporate Responsibility Report by ChevronCorporation contains forward-looking statementsrelating to the manner in which Chevron intendsto conduct certain of its activities, based onmanagement’s current plans and expectations.These statements are not promises orguarantees of future conduct or policy and aresubject to a variety of uncertainties and otherfactors, many of which are beyond our control.
Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities,
including the development, implementation orcontinuation of any program, policy or initiativediscussed or forecast in this report may differmaterially in the future. The statements ofintention in this report speak only as of the dateof this report. Chevron undertakes no obligationto publicly update any statements contained inthis report.
Legal Notice
As used in this report, the term “Chevron” andsuch terms as “the company,” “the corporation,”“their,” “our,” “its,” “we” and “us” may refer toone or more of Chevron’s consolidatedsubsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken as a whole. All of these terms are used forconvenience only and are not intended as aprecise description of any of the separateentities, each of which manages its own affairs. Barrels of oil-equivalent (boe) A unit of measure
to quantify crude oil and natural gas amounts
using the same basis. Natural gas volumes are
converted to barrels on the basis of energy
content. See Production . 
Biodiversity Refers to the diversity of life on 
earth. It encompasses genes, species, habitats and
ecosystems, and the proc esses that support them. 
Business Conduct and Ethics Code Describes
proper business conduct within Chevron and
includes an overview of several of the mostimportant laws and policies governing thatconduct. All employees and board members must understand and comply with the code.
Capacity building A key area of focus for
Chevron’s community engagement efforts, which
means targeting support toward programs thathelp individuals and institutions develop the skills,capabilities and expertise they need to succeed.
The Chevron Way Explains our values: who 
we are, what we do, what we believe and what 
we plan to accomplish. 
Condensates Liquid hydrocarbons produced with
natural gas, separated by cooling and other means. Downstream The industry term used to refer 
to all petroleum activities, from the process of
refining crude oil into petroleum products to the
distribution, marketing and sales of the products. 
Environmental, Social and Health Impact
Assessment (ESHIA) A corporate standard
process that requires capital projects to beevaluated for potential environmental, social andhealth impacts and requires that appropriatemitigation measures be developed. ESHIAimproves decision making and incorporatesstakeholder engagement throughout the project’slife cycle. The process makes sure that projectimpacts are eliminated or mitigated and benefitsenhanced. ESHIA was adopted for deployment asa corporate standard in January 2007.
Flaring and venting The burning or release of
natural gas that is often produced in association
with crude oil, a process that typically occurs whenthere is no market or onsite use for the gas.
Gas-to-liquids (GTL) A process that converts
natural gas into high-quality transportation fuels. Geothermal energy A renewable source of
energy that uses the heat energy of the earth to
produce electricity or to use directly for heating.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
A multistakeholder process and independentinstitution whose mission is to develop anddisseminate globally applicable sustainability
reporting guidelines. 
Greenhouse gases (GHGs) Gases that trap 
heat in the earth’s atmosphere; such gases
include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride. 
ISO 14001 Environmental management system
standard developed by the International
Standards Organization.
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Natural gas that is
liquefied under extremely cold temperatures to
facilitate storage or transportation in speciallydesigned v essels. Nongovernmental organization (NGO)
An organization that is independent fromgovernment, generally a nonprofit organization
devoted to providing assistance to or advancing 
a particular cause or issue. 
OHSAS 18001 An international Occupational
Health and Safety As sessment Series
management system specification.
Operating company A major Chevron company
organized for a specific business purpose. Operational Excellence Management System
(OEMS) Chevron’s standard approach to
systematic management of safety, health, the environment, reliability and efficiency inorder to achieve world-class performance. 
Operator Term used to describe a company
appointed by venture stakeholders to take
primary responsibility for day-to-day operationsfor a specific plant or activity.
Partner In this report, partner is used in its
broad sense to mean a person or organization
associated with another in a common activity or one that shares a mutual interest. It does not imply a member of a contractual partnershipin which the partners jointly own and carry on a business and proportionally share in liabilities,profits or losses of the business. 
Production Total production refers to all the 
crude oil and natural gas produced from a property.
Gross production is the company’s share of totalproduction before deducting royalties. Netproduction is gross production minus royaltiespaid to landowners. See Barrels of oil-equivalent . 
Renewable energy Energy resources that are 
not depleted when consumed or converted into other forms of energy (for example, solar,geothermal, ocean and tide, and wind). 
Reserves Crude oil or natural gas contained in
underground rock formations called reservoirs.
Proved reserves are the estimated quantities that geologic and engineering data demonstratecan be produced with reasonable certainty from known reservoirs under existing economicand operating conditions. Estimates change asadditional information becomes available. 
Revenue transparency Refers to the practice 
of disclosing certain financial arrangements
related to energy industry operations by industry and governments. 
Stakeholder At Chevron, defined as those who
affect, are affected by, or have a legitimate
interest in our company’s performance. 
Transparency Making relevant and accurate
information available to those with a legitimate
interest in the organization. 
Upstream Industry term for crude oil and natural
gas exploration and production activities.Voluntary Principles on Security and Human
Rights Principles developed by extractive-sector
companies, human rights organizations, a tradeunion, and the U.S. and U.K. governments toguide companies in maintaining the safety andsecurity of their operations within a frameworkthat ensures respect for human rights andfundamental freedoms.
213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 3940VISION AND STRATEGY
PROFILE
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
ECONOMIC
ENVIRONMENTAL
SOCIALLabor Practices and Decent Work
Human Rights
Society
Product ResponsibilityGRI
(Additional indicators in italics)
1.1  1.2
Organizational Profile   2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5–2.8 
Report Scope  2.10 2.11–2.13 2.14 2.15  2.16  
Report Profile  2.17  2.18 2.19 2.20 2.21 2.22
Structure and Governance  3.1  3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6  3.73.8
Stakeholder Engagement  2.9  3.93.10–3.12  
Overarching Policies and Management Systems  3.13 3.14  
3.15 3.16  3.17 3.18 3.19  3.20
GRI Content Index  4.1
Customers  EC1 EC2
Suppliers  EC3 EC4
Employees  EC5
Providers of Capital EC6 EC7
Public Sector  EC8 EC9 EC10
Indirect Economic Impacts  EC13
Materials  EN1  EN2
Energy  EN3 EN4 EN17
Water  EN51
Biodiversity  EN6 EN7  EN25 EN27
Emissions, Effluents and Waste  EN8 EN9 EN10 EN11  EN12
EN13 EN30
Products and Services  EN141EN15
Compliance  EN16
Transport  EN341
Overall  EN35
Employment  LA1  LA2
Employee Satisfaction
Labor/Management Relations  LA3 LA4
Health and Safety  LA5  LA6 LA7  LA8
Training and Education  LA9
Diversity and Opportunity  LA10  LA111
Strategy and Management  HR1 HR2 HR3  
Nondiscrimination  HR4
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining  HR5
Child Labor  HR6
Forced and Compulsory Labor  HR7
Disciplinary Practices  HR10
Security Practices
Indigenous Rights
Community  SO1
Bribery and Corruption  SO2
Political Contributions  SO3  SO5
Competition and Pricing  SO7
Customer Health and Safety  PR1
Products and Services  PR2
Respect for Privacy PR3API/IPIECA 
(Additional indicators in italics)
ENV-6  H&S-1
ECO-A2
ECO-2  ECO-3 ECO-A3
ECO-1  ECO-A1 SOC-A4
ENV-5  ENV-A8
ENV-A7
ENV-A9
ENV-1 ENV-A1 ENV-2 ENV-A2 ENV-3
ENV-A3 ENV-4 ENV-A4  ENV-A5 ENV-A6
SOC-A3
SOC-A2
H&S-2  H&S-3 H&S-4
SOC-5
SOC-1
SOC-4
SOC-7
SOC-6
SOC-9
SOC-A6
SOC-A4  SOC-A5  SOC-A7 SOC-8
SOC-2
SOC-3 SOC-A1
H&S-5Where reported
2–11, 16
3, 7
39, 41
39, 41
4–5, 16, 25
16–17, 274–9, 16, 18, 20,
25–27, 30, 35 
40
7
21
7, 14
7
7, 16, 22–23, 26–27
21–22
–
11, 30–34
–
36–3730–31, 35–37
26–27, 30–31
38
38
14
15
14
2, 18–20, 26
16–17
14–15, 25
25
25
25
25
25
4–5
25
–
16–17, 21–24, 26–27
4–5, 16
17
4–5
20
20
–
Key to Indicators:      Fully Reported in 2006 Partially Reported in 2006 Not Covered in 2006      Not Applicable   GRI and API/IPIECA Index
This index refers to: 
I2002 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) core indicators and those additional GRI indicators on which we have fully or partially reported. 
IAmerican Petroleum Institute/International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (API/IPIECA) sustainabilit y reporting indicators.
1 Information responsive to this indicator appears on the Web version of this report or elsewhere on www.chevron.com.
Please visit www.chevron.com/cr_report/2006/ to view a more detailed indicator index.213804A4-PDF  4/18/07  12:36 PM  Page 4041This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council–certified Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent
post-consumer waste. It is processed elemental chlorine–free and produced using wind energy.
© 2007 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.
CR Report design by Flag www.flag.co.ukCert no. SW-COC-1436This Corporate Responsibility Report, previous editions
of our report and additional information can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of our Web site,
www.chevron.com/cr_report/2006/ . We welcome your
comments and feedback at CRReport@chevron.com . 
2006 Supplement to the Annual Report
2006 Corporate Responsibility Report2006 Annual ReportChevron’s 2006 Annual Report, Managing the Energy Portfolio , and the Supplement to the
Annual Report are available in the Investor Relations section of our Web site, www.chevron.com . 
Printed copies of these documents can also be ordered on the Web site.
41This report is printed on Forest Stewardship Council–certified Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent
post-consumer waste. It is processed element al chlorine–free and produced using wind energy.
© 2007 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.
CR Report design by Flag www.flag.co.ukCert no. SW-COC-1436This Corporate Responsibility Report, previous editions
of our report and additional information can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of our Web site,
www.chevron.com/cr_report/2006/ . We welcome your
comments and feedback at CRReport@chevron.com . 
2006 Supplement to the Annual Report
2006 Corporate Responsibility Report2006 Annual ReportChevron’s 2006 Annual Report, Managing the Energy Portfolio , and the Supplement to the
Annual Report are available in the Investor Relations section of our Web site, www.chevron.com . 
Printed copies of these documents can also be ordered on the Web site.
2006 Annual Report
Managing 
the energyportfolio
2006 Corporate Responsibility Report
0(*$'*/-;+&'.:_\mife:figfiXk`fe
-''(9fcc`e^\i:XepfeIfX[
JXeIXdfe#:80+,/*$)*)+
nnn%Z_\mife%Zfd