Chevron Corporation 2004 Corporate Responsibility ReportIdentifying Issues Taking Action Improving Performance
Chevron V6.qxd  15/8/05  12:02 pm  Page B2 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
3 CHEVRON AT A GLANCE
4 PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
6 BUSINESS CONTEXT AND CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY
8 PRIORITIES, PROGRESS AND PLANS 
10 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
13 STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION14 SOCIOECONOMIC ISSUES 
16 SOCIOECONOMIC ISSUES OVERVIEW
18 EMPLOYEES 
22 HEALTH AND SAFETY
26 HUMAN RIGHTS
27 HIV/AIDS
28 ETHICS
29 GLOBAL SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT
32 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
37 REVENUE TRANSPARENCY
38 ENGAGING IN THE POLITICAL PROCESS40 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 
42 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES OVERVIEW
44 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
EFFICIENCY
5 1 AIR EMISSIONS
54 SPILLS
56 FLARING
57 WATER AND WASTE
58 BIODIVERSITY
59 ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES, 
FINES AND LITIGATION
60 DECOMMISSIONING AND REMEDIATION
62 GLOSSARY
63 GRI AND API/IPIECA INDEX
64 ABOUT THIS REPORT
211243A4  10/8/05  12:07 pm  Page FC21This is Chevron’s third Corporate Responsibility Report. It covers 2004 data and activities
and provides a detailed discussion of our progress on a range of issues we have identified as important to our company and stakeholders.
Our vision is to be theglobal energy company most admired for its people, partnership 
and performance. Corporate responsibility is key to achieving this vision.
Our company’s foundation is built on our values expr essed in The Chevron Way. 
They distinguish us and guide our actions. We conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. We respect the law, support universal human rights, 
protect the environment and benefit the communities in which we work. 
Our report is also available on our Web site at www.chevron.com/cr_report/. We welcome 
your comments and feedback, which may be directed to CRReport@chevron.com.WELCOMEFar left Trainee Mauricio Denga and Health,
Safety and Environment specialist Zinga Martineon the North Nemba Platform offshore Angola. Below Fire protection specialist Ray Scott has 
a clear overview of the Pembroke Refinery inWales as he stands on the fully extendedhydraulic platform during weekly maintenance.
211243A4  10/8/05  12:07 pm  Page 12To succeed today, our company must
demonstrate world-class performance across every aspect of our business, from our technical and financial performance toour contributions to and impact on societyand the environment. We are committed toimplementing the right strategies in theseareas and looking for new solutions that helpus responsibly supply energy and improvethe lives of people in the communities inwhich we operate.
Developing our Corporate Responsibility
Report each year provides us with anopportunity to review the efforts we haveunder way to address these issues, as sess 
our performance, and identify issues on thehorizon or opportunities to improve. It alsohelps us demonstrate our commitment to transparency. This year, we have takensteps to continue to enhance our reporting.You will find some expanded data on issuessuch as corporatewide air emissions andpolitical contributions. You will also readabout how some external organizations viewour company in areas they believe we areperforming well and in those they think wehave opportunities to improve. 
As you will see, we made progress during 
the year in a number of areas. We had oursafest year ever. We continued to improve our efficient use of energy. We significantlyreduced oil spills. We met our greenhouse 
gas emissions goal. And we issued flaringand venting standards for our internationalupstream operations. We also took steps to enhance our approach to environmentalstewardship and more clearly identify ouroverall corporate responsibility priorities and near-term plans. 
Although we accomplished much in 2004, 
the year reminded us of the challenges weface. Seventeen people died while working on behalf of Chevron. We will not be satisfieduntil we reach our goal of zero incidents. In many of the communities in which weoperate, poverty is widespread and people lack the basic necessities of life. We areseeking ways to make a greater and moresustainable contribution to help people attainthe quality of life to which they aspire.
Chevron operates in some of the most
complex environments in the world. The issues we face are varied and evolving.They range from the ways in which oil andgas operations can positively or adverselyaffect countries’ social and economicdevelopment to concerns about globalclimate change. For our company, helpingfind solutions to these challenges is bothabout living our values and achieving ourbusiness objectives.Going forward in 2005, we will continue 
our efforts to make meaningful, measurableprogress in those areas most important toour company and our stakeholders. We willcontinue to fund community engagementprograms that build capacity and contributeto economic growth. We will begindeployment of our corporatewide HIV/AIDSpolicy. We will complete internal consultationon our Human Rights Statement and explorethe best ways to deploy it globally. Andwe will begin work to develop a long-term
greenhouse gas emissions forecast for
our company.
At Chevron, our vision is to be theglobal
energy company most admired for its people,partnership and performance. To achieve thisvision, we must be excellent businesspeople,valued and trusted partners, and welcomedmembers of the community. In short, we must deliver the right results – the right way.We are committed to doing both. 
Sincerely, 
Dave O’Reilly
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
Corporate responsibility, as embodied in The Chevron Way, has long been part 
of how we operate. In today’s competitive business environment, it has also taken on an increasingly strategic role. David J. O’Reilly, Chairman of the Board 
and CEO of Chevron Corporation.
211243A4  10/8/05  12:07 pm  Page 23In 2004, Chevron produced an average of 
2.5 million barrels per day of oil-equivalent,with approximately two-thirds of the volumeoccurring outside the United States in morethan 20 different countries.
Upstream Major producing areas include
Angola, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, thePartitioned Neutral Zone (between SaudiArabia and Kuwait), the United Kingdom and the United States. Major explorationareas include Angola, Nigeria, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Venezuela, and the offshore areabetween Angola and Republic of the Congo.
Chevron holds vast natural gas resources 
in some of the world’s most prolific basins,including Australia, where we are the largestholder of undeveloped natural gas resources.Plans are under way to commercialize theseresources through liquefied natural gas andgas-to-liquids technologies.Downstream With 21 wholly owned and
affiliated refineries, Chevron proc essed
approximately 2 million barrels of crude oilper day in 2004 and averaged approximately4 million barrels per day of refined productssales worldwide. Strategic focus areas areAsia, the U.S. West and Gulf coasts, LatinAmerica and sub-Saharan Africa. Worldwide,we market products under the Chevron,Texaco and Caltex motor fuel brands. Productsare sold through a network of approximately25,700 retail stations, including those ofaffiliated companies.
Other Busine sses Chevron, through our 
50-50 joint venture Chevron Phillips ChemicalCompany LLC, is one of the leadingmanufacturers of commodity petrochemicals.Chevron Oronite markets more than 500performance-enhancing products andsupplies one-fourth of the world’s fuel andlubricant additives. Chevron Energy Solutionsdevelops and constructs energy-saving
projects for external and internal customers.Global Power Generation develops and marketscommercial power projects worldwide.
We also develop and commercialize several
advanced energy technologies, includinghydrogen infrastructure, advanced batterysystems, nanomaterials and renewableenergy applications. 
Chevron is a publicly traded company 
listed on the New York Stock Exchange. More information on our structure andoperations can be found on our Web site at www.chevron.com/about/ .CHEVRON AT A GLANCE
Chevron is one of the largest integrated energy companies in the world, based on 
market capitalization. Headquartered in San Ramon, California, we conduct business in approximately 180 countries. We are engaged in every aspect of the industry, including exploration and production; refining, marketing and transportation; chemicals manufacturing and sales; and power generation.
Chevron Global Operations
Countries in which Chevron conducts business
Chevron Corporation headquarters, San Ramon, California, United StatesThese upstream projects are new oil and
natural gas developments expected to boostproduction over the next five years. Three ofthe projects are deepwater developments: 
1The Agbami Field offshore Nigeria 
2The Tahiti Field in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico 
3The Benguela Belize–Lobito Tomboco
development offshore Angola  
Also among the “Big 5” are: 
4An expansion project at our Tengizchevroil
joint venture in Kazakhstan 
5The Greater Gorgon Area liquefied natural
gas project offshore AustraliaOur “Big 5”
12
34
5211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 34Corporate Responsibility Performance
The following summarizes our keyachievements during the year and highlightssome of the challenges we face as we look tothe future. 
Environmental Management We undertook
an extensive effort to enhance environmentalstewardship, with a focus on continueddevelopment of our operating standards,measuring and communicating performance,and demonstrating continuous performanceimprovement. We are also conducting anassessment of our Operational Excellence
Management System (OEMS) in order todetermine its alignmen t with ISO 14001, 
the international standard relating toenvironmental management.
Management System Implementation
We trained our top 1,800 executives andmanagers on leadership roles and behaviorsto support our OEMS. We also trained 46
coaches to cascade this program throughoutthe company. 
Employee Survey We conducted our first
Global Employee Survey since the merger ofChevron and Texaco. We found that 89 percentof employees think the company actsresponsibly in relation to the environment,86 percent think we act responsibly insociety and the communities in which weoperate, and 82 percent say they are treatedwith dignity and respect. 
Health and Safety Based on Total Recordable
Incidents, 2004 was our safest year on record,reflected in six straight years of improvementin our workforce Total Recordable IncidentRate. However, in 2004, 17 people died whileworking on behalf of Chevron. Motor vehiclecrashes are the most common cause offatalities. We are developing severalapproaches to improve the motor vehicle
safety performance of our workforce and in local communities.
HIV/AIDS We developed a comprehensive
plan for implementing our global HIV/AIDSpolicy, which was finalized at the end of2004. The rollout of the plan will becoordinated by two full-time staff over thenext two years. We know that implementingthe policy at all Chevron locations will bechallenging. Our operations span a widerange of locations and cultures with variedawareness of and infrastructure to addressthe disease. Despite these challenges, weremain committed to its implementation. 
Community Engagement We continued
efforts to increase the focus and effectivenessof our community investment activities by targeting them toward helping createeconomic growth and helping build humanPERFORMANCE OVERVIEW 
Percent Year-on-year 
Socioeconomic 2003 2004 change performance
Fatalities (employees and contractors) 12 [0] 17 [0] 42
Days Away From Work Rate (workforce) 0.2 [0.2] 0.18 [0.17] –10Total Recordable Incident Rate (workforce) 0.59 [0.59] 0.51 [0.51] –14Motor Vehicle Incidents (employees per million miles driven) 3.31 3.01 –9Percent of female and non-Caucasian males at the 
senior executive-level worldwide 19.5 20.8 7
Percent of females at mid-level positions and above worldwide 9.7 9.9 2Percent of employees at senior-level positions and 
above working within their country of origin 43 48 12
Total corporatewide spending in community investment
(US$ million) 60.9 63.8 5
Environmental
Total GHG emissions (millions of metric tons of CO2equivalent) 63.9 62.5 [63] –2
Number of petroleum spills 1,145 986 –14
Volume of petroleum spills (barrels) 26,540 15,514 –42
Total energy use (trillions of Btus) 880 873 –1
Energy efficiency (Chevron Energy Index) 78 76 [78] –3
Global SOxemissions (thousands of metric tons) 152.0 133.4 –12
Global NOxemissions (thousands of metric tons) 125.6 114.3 –9
Global VOC emissions (thousands of metric tons) n/c* 426.8 n/a n/a
*Not collected Improvement Unchanged or no significant improvement or decline DeclineKey Corporate Responsibility Performance Indicators 
[Goals are shown in brackets]
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 45and institutional capacity. We invested nearly
$63.8 million in community projects aroundthe world, including launching or expandingkey initiatives in the United States, Angolaand countries in Asia. Finding ways tomeaningfully and consis tently measure 
and evaluate the impact and sustainability of our community programs remains a keychallenge going forward. 
Revenue Transparency Working together
with our business partners, host governmentsand others, we continued our support forincreased transparency of energy-relatedrevenues. During the year, we negotiated a Production Sharing Contract with the Nigeria–São Tomé e Príncipe JointDevelopment Authority (JDA) that includes a clause committing the JDA to publiclydisclose payments companies make to them. Energy Efficiency and Climate Change
We beat our energy efficiency target, reflectedin our Chevron Energy Index, by two fullpoints, saving approximately 20.85 trillionBtus of energy and $72 million in costs. Wecut our greenhouse gas emissions by morethan 1 million metric tons of CO
2equivalent
over 2003, meeting our 2004 corporatewideemissions goal. Maturing oil fields, moretechnically challenging reserves and evolvingfuel specifications will present energyefficiency challenges in the years to come.
Flaring In Nigeria, we reached a key milestone
with a final commitment to begin constructionon the West African Gas Pipeline, which willreduce flaring by as much as 80 millionmetric tons of CO
2equivalent over 20 years
while delivering gas to customers in Benin,Ghana and Togo. We also reached an important milestone on our Escravos 
gas-to-liquids project. In 2005, ChevronNigeria Limited awarded the engineering,procurement and construction contract forthe project, which is another key componentof our plans to reduce flaring from ouroperations in Nigeria. Reducing flaring ofnatural gas, which accounted for 24 percentof our global greenhouse gas emissions in2004, is key to cutting future emissions.
Spills Between 1999 and 2004, we reduced
the number of our oil spills by nearly 55 percent and the volume of spills by more than 90 percent, achieving our spillvolume reduction goal one year early. The performance of our shipping companycontinues to lead the industry. In 2004, ouroperated tanker fleet did not experience asingle spill, the second straight year we haveachieved a spill-free record. Chemist Gustavo Lopez prepares
a sample of refinery effluent to test for metals at Chevron’sRichmond Environmental Lab,California, United States.
Financial Highlights
Millions of dollars, except per-share amounts 2003 2004
Net income $7,230 $13,328 
Sales and operating revenue1$119,575 $150,865
Capital exploratory expenditures $7,363 $8,315Total assets at year-end $81,470 $93,208Total debt at year-end $12,597 $11,272Stockholder equity at year-end $36,295 $45,230Per-share data
2
INet income – diluted $3.48 $6.28
ICash dividends $1.43 $1.53
IStockholders’ equity $16.97 $21.47
ICommon stock price at year-end $43.19 $52.51
Return on capital employed 15.7% 25.8%Total debt to total debt-plus-equity ratio 25.8% 19.9%Tax expense
IU.S. income taxes $1,387 $2,301
IInternational income taxes $3,907 $5,216
IIncome taxes on discontinued operations $50 $100
ITaxes other than on income $17,906 $19,821
Research and development $228 $242Share repurchases
3–$ 2 , 1 0 0Operating Highlights
2003 2004
Net production of crude oil and natural gas liquids 
(thousands of barrels per day) 1,808 1,710
Net production of natural gas 
(millions of cubic feet per day) 4,292 3,958
Net oil-equivalent production 
(thousands of oil-equivalent barrels per day) 2,637 2,509
Refinery input (thousands of barrels per day) 1,991 1,958Sales of refined products (thousands of barrels per day) 3,738 3,908Net proved reserves of crude oil, condensate 
and natural gas liquids (millions of barrels)
Iconsolidated companies 6,280 5,511
Iaffiliated companies 2,319 2,462
Net proved reserves of natural gas (billions of cubic feet)
Iconsolidated companies 17,553 16,128
Iaffiliated companies 2,638 3,547
Net proved oil-equivalent reserves (millions of barrels)
Iconsolidated companies 9,206 8,199
Iaffiliated companies 2,758 3,053
Number of employees at year-end 50,582 47,265Total payroll (millions of dollars) $2,816 $2,858Employee benefit costs (millions of dollars) $1,957 $1,386Financial and Operating Highlights
1Excludes discontinued operation amounts
2Data reflect a two-for-one stock split effected as a 100 percent stock dividend  
in September 2004
3Represents cost of shares purchased under the company’s $5 billion share repurchaseprogram announced on March 31, 2004211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 56The New Business Environment >>>>>>>>>>>>
Demand for energy around the globe isincreasing. By 2020, global population willgrow by approximately 1 billion people. This isoccurring at a time when many existing majoroil and gas production fields are maturing and their production is declining. Finding newsources of energy to meet growing demandwill be more technically challenging and oftenwill require more energy to extract. Many ofthese new sources are concentrated incomplex geopolitical environments – regionsaffected by poverty, political instability andweak governance systems.
Environmental issues also are continuing to
affect energy markets, increasing the demandfor natural gas and cleaner energy sources.Conservation and efficiency will continue to play an important role as the least costly,most reliable and most environmentally s ound
new source of energy.
While the balance of supply and demand 
is tighter now than in recent decades, we are confident that global energy needs can be met. Doing so will require increasedefficiency and conservation, technologicaland human ingenuity, and the willingness ofall parts of society to work together to findsustainable solutions.
These trends make clear that we operate 
in an era of interdependence. At Chevron, we recognize that our long-term successdepends on our ability to gain access to new energy sources, to manage operationssoundly and efficiently in increasinglycomplex environments, and to contribute to global and local economic development.Our values and business strategies positionus to succeed in this new environment.The Right Strategies >>>>>>>>>>>>
To remain true to our vision and producesustained, profitable growth in this changinglandscape, our business strategies focus on: 
IGlobal Upstream – Grow profitability in coreareas and build new legacy positions.
IGlobal Gas – Commercialize our equity gasresource base by targeting North Americanand Asian markets.
IGlobal Downstream – Improve returns by focusing on areas of market and supply strength.
IInvest in people to achieve our strategies.
ILeverage technology to deliver superiorperformance and growth.
IDeliver world-class organizationalcapability and performance in operationalexcellence, cost reduction, capitalstewardship and profitable growth.How Corporate Responsibility Adds Value 
To execute our business strategies, we mustbe able to access new resources and maintainour ability to operate in the countries andcommunities in which we work. Doing so rests,in large part, on being the partner of choice.Our approach to corporate responsibilitysupports this objective – with hostgovernments, business partners and in thecommunities in which we operate. 
Grounded in The Chevron Way, our corporate
responsibility efforts are designed to ensurethat our business continues to thrive whilewe effectively manage the socioeconomicand environmental issues we face. 
Our emphasis in the coming years is on
further integrating corporate responsibilityconsiderations into how we conduct ourbusiness. This generates value by helping us attract and retain top talent, reinforcingour capabilities to our shareholders, providingus access to business opportunities, andenhancing our reputation. We also areengaging systematically with stakeholders to help us identify emerging issues andrespond effectively to evolving challengesand expectations. Additionally, we areapplying what we learn to enhance ourpractices and continually improve ourperformance on specific issues, such ashealth and safety, HIV/AIDS, human rights,and climate change. 
To meet their business objectives, companies
that succeed in the 21st century will need to demonstrate exemplary financial, socialand environmental performance and delivercommercial and social value in an increasinglycomplex and interdependent world. We intendto be one of those companies. BUSINESS CONTEXT AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
As the global business environment evolves, our company is facing new opportunities 
and challenges stemming from a diverse range of economic, social and geopolitical factors. 
>>>>>>>>>>>>211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 67Defining Corporate Responsibility
At Chevron, we define corporateresponsibility as:
IConsistently applying our core values, set out in The Chevron Way.
IMaximizing the positive impact of our operations on current and future generations.
IIntegrating social, environmental andeconomic considerations into our corepractices and decision making.
IEngaging with and balancing the needs of our key stakeholders.Elements of Corporate Responsibility 
We identified these elements by conductingan analysis of our operating environment and the competitive landscape. We examinedemerging trends to identify the broad issueswe expect will be most important to ourcorporate responsibility performance overthe long term. We also as sessed areas of
corporate responsibility performance andcompetencies that will be most important in helping us meet our business objectives. To the six core elements initially identifiedand reported, we added a seventh –stakeholder consultation – as a vital elementof how we approach corporate responsibility.The elements we see as central to corporate
responsibility are:
IBusiness ethics and transparency
IWorkplace practices and employee relations
IEnvironment, health and safety
IHuman rights
ICommunity engagement and development
IIntegration of corporate responsibility intoour supply chain
IStakeholder consultationWe believe our approach to corporate responsibility will help us manage and 
create value for our company in today’s dynamic business environment.
Chevron has come a long way since F&C Asset Management’s first questions about
environmental and social risk management were met with stony silence. Today, the company has several internal champions to manage tough business issues, engage withstakeholders, and push the company to new levels of disclosure. As of 2002, F&C believedthat Chevron had failed to tackle its most significant social and environmental challenges or communicate with concerned stakeholders. Today, the company has leapfrogged many of its peers by publishing a substantive corporate responsibility report and enhancingprograms in key areas. F&C has noted significant progress in: climate change measurementand reporting, including a target for total carbon dioxide emissions; discussing its renewableand alternative energy strategy; HIV/AIDS policy development and implementation; andnegotiating new contracts that support revenue transparency in tough markets such asAngola. Chevron’s report is also increasingly data-driven, providing high-quality, year-on-year reporting.
But much remains to be done to prove that social and environmental management is not 
just the flavor of the month. The company must demonstrate that its commitment extendsbeyond internal champions to senior managers and the board and is actually embedded inboth company culture and compensation. Environmental and social performance targetsmust be established and disclosed, allowing stakeholders to judge if the company is stretching.While human rights initiatives are definitely progressing, they have been slow and may lackconsultation with stakeholders. Finally, to continue to build trust and credibility, the company’sreport should embrace transparency and balance, discussing the hardest questions and themost difficult situations. While Chevron is still in the early stages, we are hopeful it willcontinue on this new trajectory, continually improving its performance and demonstratingincreasing leadership.
Elizabeth Elliott McGeveran, Vice President, 
Governance & Socially Responsible Investment, F&C Asset Management plc“
”Our vision is to be theglobal energy company most 
admired for its people, partnership and performance.Corporate responsibility is key to achieving this vision.>>>>>>>>>>>>211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 78PRIORITIES, PROGRESS AND PLANS 
PRIORITY AREAS
ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENTWhat we said... 2002 and 2003
INTEGRATIONIWe will develop Corporate Responsibility Expectations to provide employees with
operational guidance.
IWe will conduct initial training on the expectations and materials in a diverse sampleof business units to get feedback.
IOur goal is to be recognized and admired for environmental excellence.
IWe are committed to further integrating environmental considerations into our business decisions and enhancing how we manage and measure ourenvironmental performance.
IAt the corporate level, we will engage more proactively with stakeholders inimportant global issues that affect our operations.
IWe will publish an annual Corporate Responsibility Report and use the GlobalReporting Initiative (GRI) and other reporting frameworks.
IOur ultimate goal is zero incidents.
ISafety and reliability are the initial priorities in the deployment of our OperationalExcellence Management System (OEMS).
IOur near-term target is to reduce the workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate bymore than 25 percent annually.
IWe will develop a draft Human Rights Statement and consult with major businessunits for input.
IWe will develop materials to support corporatewide deployment of the statement,with deployment beginning in 2004.
IWe will adopt a corporatewide HIV/AIDS policy and develop other tools andresources to support its implementation by our business units.
IOur goal is to become more systematic in how we identify, as sess and address
community issues and become more focused in the ways we support thecommunities in which we operate.
IWe are working to find ways to better measure and as sess our impacts on economic
and social development of the communities in which we operate. 
IAt the heart of our approach to environmental responsibility are conservation and energy efficiency. Our goal is to continue to improve our corporatewide energy efficiency.
IWe are implementing a robust fourfold strategy to address climate change.
IOur goal is to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per unit of output from ouroperations. We will conduct a third-party verification of our GHG emissions systemand begin establishing an annual GHG emissions goal.STAKEHOLDER
CONSULTATION AND REPORTING
HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENTHEALTH AND
SAFETY
HIV/AIDS
CLIMATE CHANGE AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY 1310–11
22–25
2726
32–3610–12
44–50See pages 211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 8PRIORITY AREAS
9What we did... 2003 and 2004 What we plan to do next...
IDeveloped draft Corporate Responsibility Expectations and materials to 
support implementation.
IIdentified business units for initial training.
IContinued deployment of our Operational Excellence Management System, withincreased focus on the environmental components.
IClarified and enhanced environmental expectations to improve performance.
IIncreased corporate-level engagement on key global issues, including climate change,HIV/AIDS, revenue transparency, human rights and international development.
IPublished our first report (2002) and update report (2003), informed by the GRI.Included a GRI index in our 2004 report.
IPlayed a leadership role in the joint effort of the American Petroleum Institute andthe International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association todevelop sustainability reporting guidance for the oil and gas industry.
IAchieved our safest two years on record, as measured by workforce RecordableIncident Rate. Very regrettably, we experienced 29 fatalities over the two-yearperiod, primarily from motor vehicle crashes.
IDeveloped and deployed new tools for motor vehicle safety, contractor safetymanagement and repetitive stress injury prevention. Created “community ofpractice” networks to share succ essful practices in these areas.
IInitiated internal consultation on the Human Rights Statement.
IDeveloped draft supporting materials.
IFinalized our corporate policy and developed an extensive implementation plan and
supporting materials.
IAppointed two full-time staff to oversee implementation of the policy.
ICompleted a global review of our community programs.
IDeveloped and began implementation of a new community engagement theme,focused on capacity building and economic development.
ICreated a $5 million fund to assist major business units in aligning their communityefforts with the new theme.
ILaunched or expanded major community initiatives in Angola, the United States andcountries in Asia.
IAchieved our highest efficiency levels ever, representing a 24 percent decrease inenergy consumption per unit of output since 1992.
IContinued implementation of our climate change strategy. Completed third-partyverification of our GHG emissions system and established first emissions goal for 2004.
IMet our 2004 GHG emissions goal and established our 2005 goal.
IIncorporated the analysis of the cost of carbon into our major capital projects.IConduct training with business units on the Corporate Responsibility Expectations,beginning in 2005.
IImplement our enhanced environmental expectations over the next five years,focusing on continued development of operating standards, measuring andcommunicating performance, and demonstrating continuous performanceimprovement.
IContinue to consult regularly with stakeholders on key issues at all levels, as well as develop a more systematic approach to stakeholder consultation at thecorporate level. 
IDevelop tools that will encourage a more consistent approach to stakeholderconsultation, where appropriate, across our busine sses. 
IContinue annual Corporate Responsibility Reporting, with the goal of 
continual improvement.
IContinue to focus on safety, aiming to meet short-term performance targets and thelong-term goal of zero incidents.
IExpand our motor vehicle safety effort to look at opportunities to help address roadsafety more broadly in the communities in which we operate. 
IComplete consultation on our Human Rights Statement and training materials withmajor business units. 
IBegin corporatewide deployment of the statement by early 2006.
ITarget completion of global implementation by the end of 2006. High-risk countries with high or rising HIV/AIDS prevalence rates will be the initialimplementation priorities.
IContinue deployment of our community engagement strategy. Our goal is to havean increased portion of our community investment targeted toward capacitybuilding and economic development programs.
IInitiate a plan to develop the additional internal capacity and competencies tomanage these programs.
IContinue to explore mechanisms to monitor and measure the execution and impactof these programs.
IContinue implementation of climate change strategy, focusing on reducingemissions of GHGs and increasing energy efficiency.
IDevelop a long-term GHG emissions forecast based on our portfolio and businessstrategy. We intend to use that forecast to develop a longer-term emissionsmanagement plan that aligns with our fourfold climate change strategy. 
IComply with the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme; explore developmentof projects under the Clean Development Mechanism. The corporate responsibility elements we have identified provide a useful and
enduring framework for understanding what corporate responsibility means inpractice. We examined our approach to addressing each of these elements, whichhas allowed us to set specific priorities, outlined in the table below. We are focusedon making meaningful, incremental progress on these issues in the near term. 211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 910Corporate Governance
Sound corporate governance is fundamentalto how we operate our company and a critical part of corporate responsibility. Our Corporate Gov ernance Guidelines 
and structures, described in detail on ourWeb site at www.chevron.com/corporate_
governance , provide a strong foundation 
for responsiveness and accountability. Forexample, all of our directors are independent,as defined by the New York Stock Exchange,except for the chairman, who also serves as CEO, and the vice chairman, who is anemployee director. Governance of corporateresponsibility performance is integrated intostructures and proc esses at the highest levels
of Chevron (see chart opposite).
In 2004, the board appointed an independent,
lead director, Carla A. Hills, to chair theexecutive sessions of nonemployee andindependent directors, and consult with thechairman on agendas for board meetings andother matters pertinent to the corporationand the board. We continued to implementglobally the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and began a review and update of our Chevron Business Conduct and EthicsCode (see Business Ethics section, page 28).
Management Systems Approach
Chevron uses a management systemsapproach to establish strategic direction,assess progress toward our goals, ensure
operational excellence, and measure andevaluate employee performance. Key amongthese are the Strategic and Business PlanningProcess, which aligns actions at all levels of
the company to common objectives, and theOperational Excellence Management System(OEMS), used to manage essential aspects ofour operations.
Strategic and Business Planning Process
Our Strategic and Business Planning Processis designed to ensure that:
IThe strategic direction for the company is discussed and agreed to before tacticalbusiness plans are developed.IBusiness plans are aligned with thecorporate strategic direction.
IThe same basic process is used for allreporting units.
IThe accountability to meet agreed-uponobjectives is clearly understood.
Each year, the Board of Directors revisits our
corporate aspirations and affirms or adjuststhe company’s strategic direction based on the Strategy and Planning Committee’sthorough review of the external environmentand our internal capabilities. Our reportingunits, their strategic business units and majoroperating companies review and update their strategies to ensure alignment with thecorporate direction. Each business unit thenprepares a three-year business plan alignedwith their strategies. All business plansinclude a section on Operational ExcellenceManagement System implementation plansand milestones.
The Strategic and Business Planning Process
includes a framework to support as sessing
management performance accountability.From the full set of metrics routinely tracked,a critical few “accountable metrics” covering
key corporate strategic priorities are definedand targets mutually set by the reporting unitand the corporation. Along with key financialmetrics, all business units are measuredagainst targeted health, environment andsafety metrics.
Operational Excellence Management System
(OEMS)Chevron developed our OEMS system toensure a consistent approach to managingsafety, health, the environment, reliabilityand efficiency to achieve world-classperformance. OEMS is comprised of threemajor parts:
ILeadership Accountability
IManagement Systems Process
IOperational Excellence ExpectationsOEMS clearly defines requirements in each 
of these areas. Operating unit management is responsible for putting proc esses and
practices in place to meet these expectations(see page 12). To evaluate OEMS design andeffectiveness across the company, cross-functional teams conduct thorough OE reviewsof each operating unit on a regular, three- tofive-year schedule. The teams evaluate how effectively the unit has designed andimplemented proc esses to meet the relevant
expectations. Review findings are submittedto the unit reporting officer, after which theunit has 60 days to submit action plans, as appropriate, to improve performance.Action plans are reviewed annually with thereporting officer until they are completed.During 2004, we conducted 21 OE reviews and five focused reviews. This represents about 25 percent of our operating units.
In 2004, we took several significant steps to
strengthen OEMS.
Leadership Accountability
The success of OEMS depends on effective,engaged, committed and knowledgeableleaders. In 2004, we launched a trainingprogram focused on leaders’ roles andresponsibilities in OEMS implementation. All members of the Chevron ManagementCommittee and their direct managementreports participated in OperationalExcellence Leadership Roles and BehaviorTraining sessions. To continue leadershiptraining throughout the organization, wecertified selected Chevron employees ascoaches. These coaches are conductingsessi ons for line managers, supervisors and
other key operations personnel throughoutthe company. Overall, more than 1,800 keymanagers were trained in the 170 sessionsheld in 2004. The importance of leadership in safety performance was confirmed recentlyby an analysis of our Global Employee Surveyresults (see page 12).CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
The Chevron Way, available on our Web site at www.chevron.com/about/, guides the
management of our company, articulating our core values and vision. It also describes how we drive performance toward our vision.211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 1011Training and Certification
To further develop OEMS fluency across thecompany, all leaders – including top executivesand line management with key operationalresponsibilities – will be expected tosuccessfully complete four computer-basedtraining modules to attain OE certification. A higher level of certification – called Supremecertification – is being developed for keyleaders and people involved in implementingOEMS throughout Chevron.
Standardizing Processes
During 2004, Chevron operating companiesfocused efforts on increasing standardizationof OEMS implementation throughout theiroperations. For example, our InternationalUpstream unit developed and deployed astandardized incident investigation andreporting process and initiated work on anenvironmental, social and health impactassessment proc ess. Our Health, Environmentand Safety organization’s Knowledge
Management network helps operating unitsshare succ essful practices and address
specific issues around effective OE implementation.
OEMS External Assessment
In 2004, we initiated an as sessment to
determine that our OEMS is aligned with and meets the intent of internationallyrecognized management system criteria (ISO 14001 for the environment and OHSAS 18001 for health and safety).  
Management of Corporate Responsibility
The Chevron Way provides a strongfoundation for corporate responsibility. Our overarching objective is to develop amore systematic approach to integrate thecorporate responsibility issues we haveidentified into our existing systems, proc esses
and decision making.Based on a review of our policies and practices,
we determined that developing CorporateResponsibility (CR) Expectations was a keytactic in helping us meet that objective. The draft CR Expectations, previously termedGuiding Principles in our 2002 report, arebased on and support the OE Expectations.They are intended to articulate the company’svision of corporate responsibility and provideoperational guidance.
In addition to the CR Expectations, we have
developed a variety of materials to supporttheir implementation. We know that gettinginput from a range of employees who addresscorporate responsibility issues every day willbe essential for the long-term success andimpact of our efforts. As a result, we electedto conduct initial training in 2005 in a sampleof our business units to get employeefeedback on the CR Expectations.Chevron Chairman Dave O’Reilly
(center) and the Board of Directorsvisit operations at the Sanhadeepwater platform in Angola. 
1Current Board of Directors as of June 2005. Other than the chairman and vice chairman, 
all directors are independent as defined by the New York Stock Exchange. One woman and two non-Caucasians serve on our board.
2Primary responsibility for oversight of corporate responsibility strategy and performance.Chevron Vision 
To be theglobal energy
company most admiredfor its people, partnershipand performance.
Governance Framework
Corporate GovernanceGuidelines
Committee ChartersBylawsCertificate of
IncorporationBoard of Directors1
Chairman: David J. O’Reilly, CEO, ChevronVice Chairman: Peter J. Robertson, Chevron
Samuel H. Armacost, Robert E. Denham, 
Robert J. Eaton, Sam Ginn, Carla A. Hills,Franklyn G. Jenifer, Sam Nunn, Charles R. Shoemate,Ronald D. Sugar, Carl Ware
Executive 
CommitteeCorporate Compliance
Policy Committee
Human Resources
CommitteeGlobal Issues 
Committee2
Strategic and Business Planning Process Operational Excellence Management SystemBoard Committees All independent1directors
Public Policy2
Audit
Nominating and GovernanceManagement CompensationThe Chevron Way 
Explains who we are, what we do, what we believe and
what we plan to accomplish.Business Conduct and Ethics Code 
How the company conducts day-to-day business activities according to the principles of The Chevron Way.Guidance
Board Level
Executive
Management
Key Management 
SystemsChevron Corporate Governance
Strategy andPlanning CommitteeManagement
Committee211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 1112Operational Excellence Operating Elements   
Our Operational Excellence ManagementSystem defines requirements in the following13 operating elements:
Security of personnel and assets
Provide a secure environment in whichbusiness operations may be succ essfully
conducted. 
Facilities design and construction
Design and construct facilities to preventinjury, illness and incidents and to operatereliably, efficiently and in anenvironmentally sound manner.
Safe operations
Operate and maintain facilities to preventinjuries, illness and incidents. 
Management of change
Manage both permanent and temporarychanges to prevent incidents. 
Reliability and efficiency
Reliability: Operate and maintain facilities to sustain mechanical integrity andprevent incidents. Efficiency: Maximize efficiency of operations and conserve naturalresources. 
Third-party services
Systematically address and managecontractor conformance to operationalexcellence. Environmental stewardship
Strive to continually improveenvironmental performance and reduceimpacts from our operations. 
Product stewardship
Manage potential risks of our productsthroughout the products’ life cycles. 
Incident investigation
Investigate and identify root causes ofincidents to reduce or eliminate systemiccauses to prevent future incidents. 
Community awareness and outreach
Reach out to the community and engagein open dialogue to build trust. 
Emergency management
Prevention is the first priority, but beprepared for an emergency and mitigateany incident quickly and effectively. 
Compliance assurance
Verify conformance with company policyand government regulations. Ensure thatemployees and contractors understand their safety, health and environmentalresponsibilities.
Legislative and regulatory advocacy
Work ethically and constructively toinfluence proposed laws and regulations,and debate on emerging issues. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
At the Tengiz Field in Kazakhstan,
a plant worker travels by bicycleto inspect facilities. From March2004 to June 2005 (lateststatistic available at printing),Tengizchevroil employees hadlogged more than 8 million workhours without a safety incident. 
17
8
9
10
11
12
132
3
4
5
6Strong Leaders Create Safe Workplaces
Good safety performance relies oncommitted and involved leadership. In 2004, we undertook a study to identifythe workplace factors that led to excellencein safety performance.
We analyzed the correlation of actual
safety performance to leadership behaviorthrough a series of questions posed in ourGlobal Employee Survey. The questionsfocused on demonstrated leadership andsupervisory skills; commitment to safety,health and the environment; andcommitment to the work environment. 
We found that units in which employees
rated their leaders most favorably hadsignificantly better safety performancethan the units with low ratings. A series of questions in the “protecting peopleand the environment” category showedthe strongest correlation; the workforceDays Away From Work Rate was up to 10 times higher for operating units with low favorability than for those with highfavorability. Within this category, havingsupervisors who demonstrated care andconcern for the safety of their employeeswas the greatest differentiator in safetyperformance (see chart at left). Additionally,we found that environments in whichleaders had strong supervisory skills and a proactive concern for a respectful workenvironment showed a reduced number ofsafety incidents.
These findings reinforce the value of our
initiatives in 2004 to engage Chevronleaders more fully in implementing our Operational Excellence ManagementSystem and building fluency through Operational Excellence certification. 
Additionally, the findings have been
integrated into our leadership and safetytraining curricula and broadly sharedinternally. Results from individual operatingunits have been shared with their respectivemanagement for integration into individualperformance as sessments, as appropriate.
Correlation of Days Away From Work in 2004 
to Employee Views of Leadership Safety Behaviors
Workforce Days Away From Work Rate (per 200,000 work hours)
Supervisors demonstrate 
concern for safety
Shutdowns are supported 
and recognized
Organization acts  
responsibly in  environment0.040.40
0.39
0.39
0.39
0.34
0.340.05
0.05
0.05
0.09
0.10Corrective action  
is taken
Organization acts  
responsibly in community 
Adequate safety training 
provided
Responses to six factors from Chevron’s 2004 Global Employee Survey – in which employees
rated their leadership with Ilow favorability or Ihigh favorability – correlated to their unit’s
Days Away From Work Rate.211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 1213We use both formal and informal approaches
to stakeholder engagement. Some aresystematic and ongoing, while others are ad hoc on specific issues. Existing businessprocesses also integrate stak eholder
consultation, for example:
IWe have embedded stakeholderengagement in our Chevron ProjectDevelopment and Execution Proc ess, a
disciplined project management methodwe use to ensure we make sound capitalinvestments and execute them well. As part of the proc ess, teams are r equired
to engage with and get input from thestakeholders who will be most affected bythe project or activity. We also apply theprinciples of this process to other types of efforts, which range from designingcommunity development programs toreviewing our environmental strategy.
IOur International Upstream unit isdeveloping a standard process forconducting environmental, social andhealth impact as sessments within its
operations. The unit is including aprocedure that provides project teams with guidance on how to effectively andproactively identify, engage with andrespond to stakeholders affected by their projects.We consult with a variety of civil-society
organizations to share information andexchange views, to better understand theirperspectives, and to gain insight intoemerging issues. In recent years, we alsohave taken steps at the corporate level toincrease our engagement with the sociallyresponsible investment community and other Chevron stockholders who have an interest in the company’s corporateresponsibility activities. 
In 2004, stockholders filed proposals with 
the company on climate change, humanrights, biodiversity, animal testing, ongoinglitigation in Ecuador and HIV/AIDS. Followingconstructive dialogue, the filers agreed towithdraw the proposals on climate change,human rights and HIV/AIDS. We believe thisoutcome reflects recognition of our progressin these areas as well as the mutual value ofengagement and information sharing. 
We also participate in energy industry
associations and other organizations, such as the World Business Council on SustainableDevelopment and Business for SocialResponsibility, that bring together companiesand other groups to address issues ofcommon inter est.Moving forward, we are continuing to 
develop a more systematic approach tostakeholder consultation at the corporatelevel. In addition, we plan to develop toolsthat will encourage a more consistentapproach, where appropriate, acrossour business. Business units also willcontinue their engagement using the mosteffective and appropriate mechanisms fortheir locations.
Our engagement with stakeholders described
in more detail elsewhere in this report includes:
IGlobal Employee Surveys (page 20)
IVoluntary Principles on Security andHuman Rights (page 26)
ISupplier Development Forums (page 30)
IAngola Partnership Initiative (page 33)
IExtractive Industries TransparencyInitiative (page 37)
IWorld Bank’s Global Gas Flaring ReductionPublic-Private Partnership (page 56)
IEnergy and Biodiversity Initiative (page 58)STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION
We define our stakeholders as those who affect, are affected by or have a legitimate
interest in our company’s performance. Our stakeholders include the groups describedbelow. We view stakeholder consultation as essential to our business. We engage withstakeholders through a wide variety of approaches at both the corporate and local levels.
Stakeholder
Stockholders
Employees
Business partners
Host governments
CustomersLocal communitiesCivil-society
organizationsProfile
Approximately 2 billion shares outstanding (as of December 31, 2004)
I62 percent owned by institutional investors and mutual funds
I38 percent owned by other investors
47,265 employees (as of December 31, 2004)
IApproximately $20 billion spent globally on supplier goods and services in 2004
IOther national and multinational energy companies
Governments in approximately 180 countries where we operateCommodity markets, wholesale and retail customersThousands of communities in which our facilities are located globallyBusiness forums, multilateral institutions, philanthropic foundations, academic institutions, think tanks, faith-based groups, 
and nongovernmental and development organizations Since 1996, we have supported the Chevron Management Institute, a unique
management training program designed to build capabilities among leaders ofnonprofit organizations. The program is organized in partnership with the Leader to Leader Institute. In 2004, the institute included for the first time participantsoutside the United States. Participants were nominated by Chevron business units in Venezuela, Colombia, Nigeria and Angola. An international group of 24 attendedthe leadership workshop held at Chevron’s headquarters in California. At right,instructor Nadir Muwwakkil, president of Vision Group International, at the 2004Chevron Management Institute.211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 1314SOCIOECONOMIC ISSUES 
SOCIOECONOMIC
211243A4  10/8/05  12:08 pm  Page 1415Chevron’s operations affect and are affected by a broad range of social and economic
issues, such as employee relations, human rights, global supplier development and how we participate in the political proc ess.
The company has a wide range of policies, proc esses and systems to help us address 
the diversity of socioeconomic issues we face. This section provides an overview of how we are approaching the social and economic issues we have determined are mostrelevant to our business.Left LL -652 Field, Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela.
Below Our support for education in Nigeria
includes funding for the Pacelli School for theBlind in Lagos
.
211243A4  10/8/05  12:09 pm  Page 1516SOCIOECONOMIC ISSUES OVERVIEW
KEY CONTRIBUTIONS
ENERGY AND PRODUCTS
Providing Energy For a wide variety of uses and
products, such as home heating, power generation,transportation, plastics and lubricants.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Taxes and Royalties Payments to governments.
Sourcing Payments to local, national and
international contractors and suppliers. Dedicatedefforts to source from and help develop small andlocally owned busine sses.
Infrastructure Contributions to local and national
physical infrastructure.Revenue Transparency Promoting transparency
and good governance in the management of oil andgas revenues.
Job Creation Providing employment, wages,
benefits. Focus on hiring and training employeesfrom the communities and countries in which weoperate.
EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS
Training and Development Providing employees
and contractors with training and otheropportunities to develop skills.
Human Rights Supporting universal human rights,
consistent with the role of business.COMMUNITY
Community Investment and Partnerships
Monetary and in-kind contributions, partnershipsand programs to support social and economicdevelopment where we operate.
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
Technology Sharing technology and know-how with
our business partners.KEY CONTRIBUTIONS KEY CHALLENGES PROCESS
STAGEDOWNSTREAM UPSTREAM Design and 
ConstructionMIDSTREAM
Oil and Natural GasTransportation Oil and Natural Gas 
Exploration and ProductionRefining and
Regasification
Chevron is committed to upholding our values, conducting business with the highest ethical standards, and fully complying with the spirit and letter of the law.Sourcing
InfrastructureJob Creation
Training and Development
Human Rights
Community Investment 
and Partnerships
TechnologyTaxes and Royalties
SourcingInfrastructureRevenue TransparencyJob Creation
Training and Development
Human Rights
Community Investment
and Partnerships
TechnologyTaxes and Royalties
SourcingJob Creation
Training and Development
Human Rights
Community Investment
and Partnerships
TechnologyJob Creation
Training and Development
Health and Safety
Employment Reductions
Demographic Shifts
Indigenous Communities 
and Cultural Heritage 
Land Acquisition Community HealthZones of ConflictWeak Governance Systems
Health and SafetyDemographic Shifts
Community ImpactsIndigenous Communities 
and Cultural Heritage
Land AcquisitionCommunity HealthZones of ConflictHealth and Safety
Land Acquisition
Community Health
Health and Safety
Community Impacts
Community HealthThis diagram provides an overview of Chevron’s core business activities and the key
socioeconomic contributions the company can make at each stage. Additionally, ithighlights the challenges the company faces – those associated with our operations, as well as broader societal issues that characterize our operating environment. 
Chevron Operations211243A4  10/8/05  12:09 pm  Page 1617KEY CHALLENGES
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Weak Governance Systems Operating in
environments that lack sound governance systemsand where the rule of law is weak.
Government Revenue Reductions Following
closure of operations.
EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS
Health and Safety Protecting the health and safety 
of those working on our behalf or affected by our operations.
Employment Reductions Following completion of
construction phase or closure of operations.COMMUNITY
Demographic Shifts Population migrations and 
attendant community and economic impacts.
Community Impacts Effects of oil and gas
development on the social, political and economicfabric of local communities.
Indigenous Communities and Cultural Heritage
Respecting the rights, traditions, livelihoods and cultural attributes of indigenous and other local communities.
Land Acquisition Process and effects of acquiring
land for operations, including potentialresettlement.
Community Health Effects of new or existing
health issues, particularly HIV/AIDS, on workforceand local communities.
Zones of Conflict Operating in regions affected 
by conflict.Transportation Storage
Markets/End UseDecommissioning 
and Remediation
Domestic
AutomotiveAviationAgriculturalRailNauticalIndustrialFUELS
TechnologyElectricityLubricantsWaxPlastics
We use a variety of processes and systems to ensure compliance with our ethical policies and guidelines and accountability for violations.Providing Energy
Taxes and Royalties
Job Creation
Training and DevelopmentCommunity Investment
and PartnershipsJob Creation
Training and DevelopmentJob Creation
Training and DevelopmentJob Creation
Training and Development
Health and Safety
Land Acquisition
Community HealthGovernment Revenue
Reductions
Health and Safety
Employment Reductions
Demographic ShiftsHealth and Safety Health and SafetyThe issues listed in the diagram and at each stage are not exhaustive. Rather, we have
sought to identify the contributions and challenges most significant at each stagethroughout the life cycle of our operations.211243A4  10/8/05  12:09 pm  Page 1718Our Global People Strategy is designed to
help ensure we create a workforce with thecollective organizational capability to achieveand sustain industry-leading performance. 
In 2004, we reviewed the People Strategy to
ensure that it appropriately addr esses the
evolving workforce needs of our business and continues to be aligned with the strategicbusiness plan. As a result, we will begin toadjust our global recruiting proc esses in 2005
and conduct an as sessment to help us project
our staffing requirements for the next decadeand beyond.
Training and Development
Providing our employees with meaningful and relevant training and developmentopportunities helps ensure that Chevron will continue to have the organizationalcapabilities necessary to meet our futurebusiness needs. We have numerous programsthat help us attract and retain the bestpeople, ensure that employees are positioned to achieve their goals and grow their careers,
and close specific competency gaps withinthe organization.
Most of our programs are developed and
conducted at the operating company orbusiness unit level. They are tailored to meetour overall objectives as well as the specificneeds of local workforces. These includeefforts to:
ISupplement on-the-job training for new hires.
IEnhance employees’ skills and technicaland functional expertise.
IExpand employees’ knowledge of thecompany’s global and multifacetedoperations.
IIncrease employees’ appreciation of beingpart of a global, diverse workforce.
ICultivate high-potential candidates forfuture opportunities.
Recognizing the importance of strong,
effective leaders, Chevron has severaldesignated programs to develop managers.For example:
IThe Chevron Leadership Forum – gearedfor our high-potential managers workingthroughout our global operations, thisprogram seeks to increase the participants’knowledge of the company’s globalstrategies and objectives. In 2004,205 managers participated in the forum.
IThe Chevron Advanced ManagementProgram – a three-week course that i ncludes
an on-site development assignment withinthe company’s global operations. In 2004,38 managers completed the program.
INew supervisor program – a course forfirst-time supervisors. In 2004, 652 peoplecompleted the course. EMPLOYEES
Saudi Arabian Texaco Human
Resources staff at Mina Saudcamp in the Partitioned NeutralZone between Saudi Arabia andKuwait review a monthly benefitsverification report. From left areHussein Al-Shammari, Madhi Al-Ghobari and Joe La Pr esta. 
Chevron is a company of more than 47,000 people worldwide. Our success is 
intrinsically linked to the capabilities, performance, diversity and engagement of our employees.  
Training New Dealers
Chevron’s Marketing group providestraining for retailers joining the Chevron-branded network through its New DealerBusiness Orientation. The program is anintensive two-week immersion in retail-outlet management held at the company’sheadquarters in San Ramon, C alifornia. 
The training is required for all new ret ailers
in the United States who manage company-owned stations or contract directly withChevron for their fuel supply. 
In the past 10 years, more than 1,200 
new retailers have received their initialorientation to the Chevron brand from this program and have been taught how to effectively manage fueling facilities and convenience stores. Training is face to face as well as technology-based. A unique aspect of the on-site classroom in San Ramon is a mock-up station, with a convenience store, pump island and quick-serve restaurant. 
Retailer training in a variety of forms 
exists throughout Chevron for Caltex- and Texaco-branded stations as well. The courses encompass a mixture oflocation and classroom training on suchsubjects as customer service, health andsafety practices, and accounting andpayroll management. Virtual-classroomsoftware links people in different locationsto facilitate best-practice sharing.Geographic Breakdown of Chevron 
Employees (2004)
45%North America
23%Asia-Pacific
15%Africa
10%Europe/
Middle East
7%South America
At the end of 2004, Chevron had 47,265 employees
worldwide, which represents a 6.5 percent decrease instaffing from the previous year. The staff reductions weredue to reorganizations in some of our operating units andvarious asset sales. Approximately 18.9 percent of our U.S.workforce is represented by unions.211243A4  10/8/05  12:09 pm  Page 1819Chevron Horizons Program
Horizons is a five-year, developmentaltechnical-training program thatsupplements new hires’ on-the-jobexperiences. Through courses and fieldtraining, participants attain cross-functional competencies in facilitiesengineering, petroleum engineering,earth science, drilling and informationtechnology. Employees in Horizons areexpected to take up to three differentassignments, which may include relocation,over the program’s five-year duration.In 2004, 400 employees participated in the program in the United States.
Based on its effectiveness, Horizons was
expanded in 2004 and 2005 to severalChevron locations outside the UnitedStates, such as Venezuela, Thailand,Australia, Indonesia and the United Kingdom.Cultivating High-Potential Recruits
To sustain and advance the company’sposition as a market leader, Chevron’sGlobal Marketing group boosted its effortsto recruit and develop high-potentialemployees through several new internshipprograms in 2004.
The L.T. Jordan Internship and the Living-
Abroad Programs, created through apartnership with Texas A&M University,introduce interns to customs, societies and work environments outside the UnitedStates. In 2004, seven interns took part. 
The Gateways Global Internship Program 
is open to students around the world whoare placed in work assignments within andoutside their home countries. The programhosted 26 interns in 2004, includingstudents from Nigeria, Spain, Guatemala,South Africa, the Philippines and the United States.To help succ essful interns make the
transition into permanent positions, GlobalMarketing added the Futures DevelopmentProgram, which provides new hires with a two-year development track to enhancetheir skills and experience. The firstprogram participant was hired in 2004.
Another priority of the Global Marketing
group is to help fill the talent pipeline byenhancing the capabilities of future leaders.Employees selected for the newly createdInternational Marketing Fellows Programspend two weeks on a developmentassignment outside their home country, then three days with global leaders in afacilitated dialogue forum. 
Trainer Maxot Kymapob prepares to
demonstrate argon welding to AselbekMukhametzhanov at Tengizchevroil’s CraftTraining Center in Atyrau, Kazakhstan.Construction at the Sour Gas Injection/Second Generation Project at the TengizField is creating thousands of new jobs forKazakh nationals.Chevron provides training opportunities
throughout employees’ careers.Asset planning supervisor ElizabethSchwarze holds courses for subsurfaceprofessionals. She and colleagues,geologists David Larue (left) and GregSmith, view a 3-D temperature modelof California’s Kern River Field.211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 1920Workplace Environment
Chevron is committed to creating a workplaceenvironment in which our employees arerecognized and valued for their contributionsand treated with dignity and respect. To fosterthis kind of environment, we have severalcommunication channels open to employeesto provide feedback, raise issues or concerns,and resolve conflicts. These include:
IChevron Ombudsperson – providesemployees with neutral, confidentialsupport and problem-solving assistance.
ISteps to Employee Problem Solution – a program that offers a safe, fast andalternative way to resolve disputes.
IChevron Hotline – a 24-hour resource to confidentially or anonymously reportissues or share concerns. It includestranslation services for individuals notfluent in English. In 2004, the hotline wasaccessed 185 times (more information onthe hotline is available on page 28).
IPulse Surveys – a measure used periodicallyto gain feedback from a sample or subsetof employees on particular topics.
IGlobal Employee Surveys – a periodic effort to get comprehensive feedback fromour employees.
Chevron recognizes and respects employees’
right to join associations or choose unionrepresentation. Where employees chooseunion representation or where it is requiredby law, the company will attempt to establisha positive, cooperative business relationshipwith the authorized representative of choice.
2004 Global Employee Survey
In our first global survey since the merger ofChevron and Texaco, we asked our employeesto share their opinions on a range of topicsidentified as the drivers most likely to affectemployee engagement, meaning they areemotionally and intellectually committed tothe company’s succ ess.
An independent, third party analyzed the
results of the global survey conducted in May 2004. It found that Chevron was on paror above average in five of the nine categoriescompared with high-performing companies inall industries. We outscored our industry peers
in all categories. The survey was completedby 67 percent of our employees globally. 
We intend to conduct the Global EmployeeSurvey approximately every two years.Fostering an Inclusive Workplace
As stated in The Chevron Way, diversity is one of our core values. We reflect thosevalues in our commitment to foster aninclusive workplace in which individualdifferences, varied perspectives and uniquetalents are respected and embraced. 
Chevron’s employment policy states that 
in any aspect of employment, no individualwill be discriminated against based on race, religion, color, national origin, age, sex, gender identity, disability, status as adisabled veteran, political preference, sexualorientation, membership or nonmembershipin any lawful organization, or other basisprohibited by local laws or regulations. The company uniformly enforces allnondiscrimination and anti-harassment lawsapplicable to the workplace, and we apply our own policies in jurisdictions where suchprotections do not exist. Chevron requires all U.S. employees to take anti-harassmenttraining and does not tolerate retaliationagainst employees who exercise their rightsunder existing anti-discrimination laws.
We are committed to increasing the
representation of women and non-Caucasianmales in senior-level positions corporatewide.At the end of 2004, women representedapproximately 21 percent of our total globalworkforce. At mid-level and above, womenrepresented 9.9 percent of employees. At the senior executive level, women andnon-Caucasian males held approximately20.8 percent of the positions at the end of 2004, up from 19.5 percent in 2003. 
Developing a Global Workforce
To succeed in diverse operatingenvironments, we need a skilled globalworkforce that represents the communities in which we operate and the markets weserve. Our commitment to hire locally anddevelop our workforce also contributes tolocal economic growth and helps build thelong-term capacity of our host countries. At the end of 2004, approximately 97 percent of Chevron’s employees wereworking within their home countries. Outside the United States, approximately 48 percent of senior-level positions were held by employees working within theirhome countries. While we consistently emphasize an inclusive
and diverse workplace, the nature anddefinition of diversity varies, reflecting theunique cultures and people in the manylocations in which we operate. Therefore,many business units have their own diversitycouncils and other programs focused on theirparticular priorities and challenges. Followingare a few examples.
Australia Chevron’s Upstream business unit
in Australia is focusing on increasing therepresentation of women at all levels of itsoperations. In 2004, women accounted for 29 percent of all employees but only 7 percentof executive leadership positions. As a result,the unit reviewed its hiring practices and tooksteps to ensure it had a more inclusive andtransparent selection proc ess. T his included
having more women serve on hiring selectionteams. Additionally, the unit improved itsparental-leave policy by expanding itsmaternity-leave benefits , developing the Keep
in Touch Program for women on leave, andoffering more flexibility for women returningto work from maternity leave.
Nigeria While more than 90 percent of
Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) employeeswere Nigerian citizens in 2004, theyrepresented a diversity of cultures, ethnicitiesand tribes as well as expatriates from othercountries. CNL’s Diversity Council has soughtto break down some of the language andcultural barriers among its employees. The program Learn a Nigerian Language,open to all employees, was launched at CNL’s facility in Lekki in 2004 and drewapproximately 100 employees interested inthe Yoruba, Igbo and Hausa ethnic languages.CNL also hosted Diversity Day c elebrations 
at several company locations.
CNL continues to focus on hiring and
developing the skills of Nigerian citizenswhile cultivating a more inclusive workenvironment. CNL’s strategies includeincorporating diversity metrics in itscandidate slates and selection teams,requiring employees to develop personaldiversity action plans, ensuring diversity is represented in future succession plans, and providing development assignments toemployees. Broad diversity metrics includegender, tribe and state of origin.
EMPLOYEES
Corporate Human Resources’
Intercultural Development grouphelps prepare employees forinternational assignments. Beforeleaving for Seoul, employee BillyLeal, his wife, Nancy, and theirdaughter, Leah, attend a culturalorientation session in which fellowemployees share their experiencesof having lived and worked in Korea.211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 2021Thailand Chevron’s Asia South business 
unit also faces the challenge of fosteringappreciation for the cultural diversity of itsemployees. In Thailand, the Diversity Councilconducted a “cultural audit” to betterunderstand its particular issues and prioritizethe goals of its diversity initiatives. Based onthe findings, the unit launched a new diversityawareness program in 2004 that included a two-day intensive cross-cultural workshop.More than 90 percent of the employees inthe unit attended the workshop or anothersimilar program. 
United States In the United States, we 
have several strategies to meet our goal ofdeveloping a diverse workforce. In the UnitedStates as required by law, Chevron collectsand submits data annually on our U.S.-basedworkforce to the Equal EmploymentOpportunity Commission (see chart below).Overall recruitment for full-time positions
was down in 2004. However, of those wehired in the United States in 2004, 35 percentwere minorities and 37 percent were women.We increased recruitment of interns in 2004,of whom 40 percent were minorities and 39 percent were women.  
In 2004, to further our goal of increasing
representation of minorities and women, wespecifically focused on engaging with outsideorganizations that helped us broaden ourslate of minority candidates. This includedpartnering with the INROADS scholarship andinternship program, and recruiting at severalhistorically minority colleges and universities.Additionally, we require employees to developone or more agreements in personal diversityaction plans focused on enhancing theirawareness of and demonstrating theircommitment to diversity. In Puerto La Cruz, Venezuela,
company civil engineer LuisanaRamos and geologist Milton Mendezwork on the Plataforma DeltanaBlocks 2 and 3 project.
Equal Employment Opportunity (2004)
Percent of Chevron U.S. workforce
Minorities among 
total employees 34.4
28.2
23.2
23.0
24.4
30.7Women among 
total employees
Minorities among 
officials and managers
Women among 
officials and managers
Minorities among 
professionals
Women among 
professionalsEmployee Networks
One of the ways Chevron supports diversityand inclusion in the workplace is throughemployee networks. These are groups ofemployees focused on specific dimensionsof diversity. We now have networks for Asian,African-American, Filipino-American, lesbianand gay, Hispanic, women, Native American,the disabled, and young employees.
Chevron Women’s Network, for example,
was established five years ago in theUnited States. Today, it has more than1,000 members in 17 countries. Two newgroups have recently joined this network. 
In the Africa-Pakistan region, a Women’s
Network was launched in September 2004and already boasts a membership of nearly200 – 14 of them men. The group hasadopted the moniker “OYA,” for the Africangoddess of trade, business and prosperity.“The word is difficult to translate but, inessence, refers to the strength of womenand how we interact and balance allelements of our lives,” comments DelightChandler, the chairwoman for the CaltexSouth and Central Africa network.
Chandler’s goals for OYA are specific to 
her region. She hopes to encourage womenby providing a platform for them to get the support they need to succeed in theworkplace. Working in tandem with HumanResources, Chandler hopes to introduce anemployee mentoring program specificallytailored to women.
The Asia-Pacific Women’s Network also is
under development, with launch targetedfor late 2005. The goal is to embrace thespirit of the other Chevron women’snetworks while reflecting the range ofcultures and issues across the diverse 
Asia-Pacific region.When asked to rate their level of agreement on a range of statements about the company, employees
indicated the highest percentage of agreement on the following statements:
II think Chevron acts responsibly in relation to the environment (89 percent)
II believe strongly in the goals and objectives of Chevron (87 percent)
II am proud to be a part of Chevron (87 percent)
II think Chevron acts responsibly in the society/community in which we operate (86 percent)
IThe people I work with are willing to help each other, even if it means doing something outside their 
usual activities (86 percent)
II am treated with dignity and respect (82 percent)
IChevron is a company that cares about the health and well-being of employees (80 percent)211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 21HEALTH AND SAFETY
22Driving Improved Performance
We manage health and safety performancethrough our Operational ExcellenceManagement System (OEMS). OEMS spellsout a range of detailed expectations for ourbusiness units’ health and safety proc esses.
We believe that improving fluency in ourOEMS (described on page 10) and building a safety culture will lead to continuousimprovement in our safety performance.
Due to the nature of our industry, we often
rely on contractors to provide specialized expertise or perform work of limited duration
such as construction. We have the samehealth and safety expectations for contractorsas for our own employees, and we track ourperformance for both.
As part of OEMS, all safety incidents are
investigated to determine the root causesand steps needed to prevent recurrence.Learning is broadly shared to encourageprevention. Chevron’s chairman, with thehead of the relevant operating company,personally reviews all employee and contractor fatalities, including the
circumstances surrounding the fatality andthe follow-up actions taken.
Performance
As measured by our Total Recordable IncidentRate (TRIR), 2004 was our safest year onrecord, reflected in six straight years ofimprovement. Over the five-year period, ourTRIR improved 65 percent (see charts below). The health and safety of people who work on our behalf or are affected by our operations
is our highest priority. We want all employees and contractors to arrive home safe at theend of their work day. Regrettably, in 2004, 15 contractors and two employees died whileworking on behalf of Chevron. We are committed to striving to reduce fatalities – and allincidents – to zero. 
Days Away From Work Rate
1999Days away per 200,000 work hours
0.45
0.40
0.35
0.30
0.25
0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
02004 2003 2002 2001 2000
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
0.38Chevron 
Employees 0.39 0.34 0.25 0.25 0.21
0.27Chevron 
Contractors 0.20 0.26 0.25 0.18 0.16
0.40Employee 
Benchmark 0.34 0.22 0.23 0.22 0.19
0.31Contractor 
Benchmark 0.28 0.21 0.21 0.17 0.19Total Recordable Incident Rate
1999Recordable incidents per 200,000 work hours
2.00
1.75
1.50
1.25
1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
02004 2003 2002 2001 2000
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
1.04Chevron 
Employees 0.82 0.72 0.68 0.60 0.46
1.80Chevron 
Contractors 1.08 0.88 0.74 0.59 0.53
1.32Employee 
Benchmark 1.04 0.93 0.90 0.84 0.66
1.40Contractor 
Benchmark 1.22 0.90 0.84 0.76 0.73
American Petroleum Institute data are used as the industry benchmarks. American Petroleum Institute data are used as the industry benchmarks.211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 2223A critical contribution to improved
performance has been the involvement of ourworkforce. Hazard and operability studies,pre-start-up safety reviews, behavior-basedprograms, daily safety meetings, and ongoingsafety committees are just some of the waysour employees and contractors have helpedimprove performance. In addition, more than 2,000 employees and contractors areinvolved in corporatewide health and safetynetworks. Current networks include motorvehicle safety, repetitive stress injuryprevention and contractor safety management.
These improvements have also been driven 
in part by our aggressive targets for keysafety indicators. In 2004, we met our target to reduce our overall workforce TRIR,though we fell just short of reaching our
workforce Days Away From Work Rate target.In 2004, 36 Chevron units received our ZeroIs Attainable Award. To earn the award, majorreporting units with at least 100 employeeshad to achieve zero fatalities and zeroemployee recordable incidents during the year. 
We continue to see dramatic reductions in
the number of repetitive stress injuries in our employee workforce since instituting ourrisk as sessment and intervention program in
2000. Our year-end repetitive stress injuryrate in 2004 was half that of 2003 and lessthan a third of the rate in 2000.
The leading cause of fatalities at Chevron
remains motor vehicle crashes, accountingfor six fatalities in 2004. Since 2000, nearly
half of all employee and contractor fatalitieshave been due to motor vehicle crashes. 
We are intensifying our focus on motor
vehicle safety in our operations throughprograms such as Project Preserve, profiledon page 25. To help address the issue ofgeneral road safety in the communities inwhich we do business, we are developing theArrive Alive Program. We will implement theprogram in selected countries where we haveoperations and face road safety challenges.We will also seek locations where governmentand nongovernmental organizations arereceptive to partnering with us. We expect tohave our first cooperative road safety initiativeunder way in early 2006.
Lost-Time Incident Frequency
1999Incidents per million work hours
2.50
1.502.00
1.00
0.50
02004 2003 2002 2001 2000
1999
1.93Chevron 
Employees2000
2.002001
1.702002
1.262003
1.262004
1.07
1.47Chevron 
Contractors 1.06 1.37 1.30 0.95 0.87
2.00Employee 
Benchmark 1.70 1.10 1.20 1.08 0.95
1.40Contractor
Benchmark 1.45 1.10 1.10 0.90 0.95
American Petroleum Institute data are used as the industry benchmarks.211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 2324HEALTH AND SAFETY
Chevron Canada Resources geophysicist Janis Rose stands in front of a low-
ground-impact seismic vibrator, which helps ensure our operations leave aminimal environmental footprint in the Canadian Arctic. The Taktuk 3-D seismicprogram in the 2003–2004 winter season was the first petroleum industryseismic program in the Mackenzie Delta to achieve zero incidents. That safetyrecord was repeated in the 2004–2005 season.
Work-Related Fatalities
1999Number
25
1520
10
5
02004 2003 2002 2001 2000
1999
4Chevron 
Employees2000
42001
22002
12003
02004
2
20Chevron 
Contractors 14 21 15 12 15
24 Total 18 23 16 12 17Motor Vehicle Safety
1999Motor vehicle incidents per million miles driven (company vehicles)
4.00
3.00
2.00
1.00
02004 2003 2002 2001 2000
1999
2.52Chevron
Employees2000
2.992001
3.292002
2.942003
3.312004
3.01211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 24Working to Eliminate Truck Accidents in the
Africa-Pakistan RegionFollowing a series of fatal accidents, Chevronlaunched a rigorous initiative to improve the safety of the company’s product delivery fleet in the Africa-Pakistan region.The accidents included a head-on collision in Uganda that killed 40 people and anincident in Nigeria that resulted in twofatalities. Although the Chevron contractdrivers involved in the accidents were not deemed to be at fault, the companynonetheless has taken action.
Chevron dispatched a five-person Project
Preserve team to Nigeria to help local fieldoperations improve truck and driver safetystandards. The team worked under thedirection of local management in Nigeria tocraft a program that could be implemented
on the spot and enforced to 100 percentcompliance. To achieve immediate results,the team first focused on the basic mechanicalsafety of the trucks. An important key tosuccess was developing a phased plan to implement Global Marketing’s truckstandards. For greatest impact, the firstobjective was to implement the “critical few”standards 100 percent of the time. In Nigeria,these included items such as tire quality,working lights and seat belts. When thosebasics are met completely, additional safetystandards will be implemented.
This project received the strong support 
of senior management, who activelycommunicated its importance to the entire organization. Enforcing the new standard – and not 
loading any truck that did not comply –inevitably affected product deliveries, and management’s willingness to acceptnearly two weeks of business interruptionssent a clear message that the Nigeria fieldoperations were serious about safety.
Since the program was launched in Nigeria 
in June 2004, no product delivery truckfatalities have been reported. The program is now being implemented throughout the 22-country Africa-Pakistan region. “Our objective is nothing less than toimplement and enforce a ‘zero is attainable’culture toward safety-related incidents in allareas of our business,” says Bereket Haregot,vice president of Africa-Pakistan Marketing.
25
Chevron trains depot managers
in Nigeria as part of our ProjectPreserve efforts to reduce thenumber of road accidents. 211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 25Chevron has long addr essed many of the
issues that fall under the umbrella of humanrights, such as employment practices,nondiscrimination in employment, health and safety, and security of employees and
company facilities. We also are committed toworking with governments, business partners,the communities in which we operate andnongovernmental organizations to continueto help contribute to an environment in whichhuman rights are respected.
We have always supported human rights
around the world, consistent with theUniversal Declaration on Human Rights, and we will continue to do so. Our support is clearly articulated in The Chevron Way.While the ultimate responsibility for protectinghuman rights rests with governments, we believe that we also have a role to play consistent with the role of business. Our existing policies and practices, supportfor leading initiatives, and dialogue withstakeholders are part of our commitment to this objective. 
As with other aspects of corporate
responsibility, helping our employeesunderstand what support for human rightsmeans in practice is an important priority. We have reviewed our policies, systems and practices and have consulted with employees
and experts. The first outcome of the reviewwas the preparation of a draft Human RightsStatement. Grounded in The Chevron Way, webelieve the statement will provide guidanceto Chevron employees and act as a frameworkfor constructive dialogue, both internally and externally. We are consulting with selectbusiness units to ensure that the statement will achieve the objectives we have laid out.Based on the results of the consultation, weintend to finalize the statement anddetermine whether any additional tools ortraining will be necessary to support ourefforts. Our aim is to finalize the statementand mat erials and begin corporatewide
deployment in e arly 2006.
In addressing this issue, we also have drawn
upon leading initiatives that seek to supporthuman rights. We support the VoluntaryPrinciples on Security and Human Rights,which we helped develop, and we activelyparticipate in a dialogue with other energycompanies, nongovernmental organizationsand governments that are involved in this effort. We communicate our securityexpectations to host governments where we operate, our business partners, and theprivate and public security forces with whomwe sometimes work.Our Global Security group continues to include
the Voluntary Principles in its periodic formalSecurity Management Reviews. IndividualChevron business units are responsible forimplementing the Voluntary Principles inaccordance with local laws and conditions.We also encourage the U.S. government toengage with other countries in the importanceof upholding human rights and the rule oflaw. In 2004, we adopted a new internalguideline that supports the V oluntary
Principles. The guideline limits any supportwe provide host country security or lawenforcement organizations to nonlethaldefense and logistics. 
In addition to the Voluntary Principles,
Chevron was one of the original endorsers ofthe Global Sullivan Principles, which addressa wide range of human rights issues, fromequal opportunity to a safe and healthyworkplace. These initiatives are examples of how Chevron draws on multistakeholderefforts to inform our policies and practices. 
26HUMAN RIGHTS
Chevron’s support for human rights is one of the core values articulated in 
The Chevron Way. We respect human rights in the conduct of our global operations, consistent with the role of business.211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 2627HIV/AIDS poses a significant risk to Chevron
employees and families, the communities in which we operate, and ultimately, ourbusiness. As a company with operations inapproximately 180 countries, including manyplaces with a high prevalence of the disease,we see the effects of HIV/AIDS daily.
In 2003–2004, Chevron was proud to be
among the first companies of our size andscope to develop a global HIV/AIDS policy anda comprehensive plan supporting its rollout.Formal implementation of the policy began in early 2005, building on earlier HIV/AIDSefforts that were well under way within ourSouth Africa, Nigeria and Angola operations.
The objectives of Chevron’s global HIV/AIDS
policy and programs are to reduce exposureto HIV/AIDS; secure support, care andtreatment, where available locally; and engagepartners in international and local communitiesin implementing effective programs toaddress the disease. In developing the policy,we examined the impact the disease has or may have on our employees and theirfamilies. We considered the expert guidanceof the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS,the International Labor Organization andother agencies. Some provisions in our resulting policy include:
IDeveloping education and prevention 
programs in areas where we operate.
IAdvancing the company’s intent and long-term goal to secure treatment foremployees and dependents in their country or region of employment.
IAdministering the respective benefit plans so that employees who become ill with HIV/AIDS are treated like otheremployees with a life-threatening illness.
IReconfirming that employees ill with HIV/AIDS are protected from discrimination under the company’sexisting nondiscrimination and nonharassment policies.
IEnsuring the confidentiality of anemployee’s HIV/AIDS status, unlessotherwise required by law.
IRefraining from conducting pre-employmentHIV testing, except as required by law.
Implementing the Global Policy
We remain firmly committed to having allChevron locations implement the policy. We recognize that this will be a considerableundertaking. As a first step, each businessunit, operating region or operating companywill conduct a situation analysis tounderstand the health threat posed by
HIV/AIDS to employees and the company, as well as to assess the availability of 
local resources for testing, counseling and treatment. Local action plans will bedeveloped for implementation of the policy in subsequent years.
At the corporate level, Chevron will provide
initial funding and dedicate full-timeprofessional staff to assist the business units in implementing the policy and ensure a coordinated approach. Initial fundingpriority will be given to regions with high orrapidly increasing prevalence rates, such assub-Saharan Africa and parts of Asia andLatin America.
We believe this issue is best addr essed
through a collective approach withgovernments, the private sector, communitiesand multilateral organizations. Therefore,Chevron will continue to collaborate on this issue and explore new opportunities for innovative partnerships that will help usmove forward on implementing our globalHIV/AIDS policy.HIV/AIDS
One of the greatest health threats the world faces today is the spread of HIV/AIDS, 
a disease that has claimed the lives of an estimated 3.1 million people in 2004. In that same year, an estimated 40 million people throughout the world were living with HIV,including the nearly 5 million people who had newly acquired the virus. The disease has devastating consequences for people, societies and economies across the globe.
Dr. Tsola Kpiasi, medical director of
Chevron Nigeria Limited, helps in thecompany’s HIV/AIDS effort. In Cabinda,Angola, over a 10-year period ending in2004, our AIDS programs, in cooperationwith the local government, helped reduceHIV rates from 7 percent to 3 percent. In another Cabinda project, a company-sponsored blood bank in the localhospital reduced from 25 percent to 1 percent the number of HIV casescaused by transfusions of infected blood.211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 2728Business Ethics
Chevron is committed to upholding ourvalues, conducting business with the highestethical standards, and fully complying withthe spirit and letter of the law in the countrieswhere we do business. The Chevron BusinessConduct and Ethics Code (BC&E Code)outlines our policies on how we conductourselves and operate around the world.Issues covered by the BC&E Code include
conflicts of interest, public-policy activities,
gifts to officials, antitrust and competitivepractices, privacy of personal information,and nondiscrimination, among others. The BC&E Code can be viewed online atwww.chevron.com/biz_conduct .
The BC&E Code also includes the 
company’s policy to comply fully with the U.S. government’s Foreign Corrupt PracticesAct (FCPA). Payments to internationalofficials or parties for the purposes ofobtaining or retaining business is strictlyagainst Chevron policy, even if refusal to doso may cause the company to lose business.In instances where officials expect paymentto expedite the proper performance of“routine governmental action” – a practiceallowed under the FCPA – Chevron requiresall such requests be forwarded to our chiefcompliance officer for review and approval.
Chevron directors and employees are
required to read or be trained in the BC&ECode. Recognizing that no document canprovide definitive guidance in all situations,we ultimately must rely on our employees’adherence to the company’s high standards.
Updating Our Ethics Code
In 2004, we began updating our BC&E Codeto ensure it clearly conveys our principles of conduct to our global workforce. Therevised BC&E Code will be translated into as many as 12 languages. All Chevrondirectors and employees will be required to read, acknowledge and state that they will abide by the BC&E Code no later thanDecember 31, 2005. The code will becommunicated to all employees by July2005 via the company’s intranet and in booklet and compact disc format.Ensuring Compliance With Our Ethics Code
Chevron has an effective compliance programwith a structure of shared responsibility. A corporate compliance policy committeegoverns the companywide complianceprogram. Additionally, in early 2005, Chevronappointed a chief compliance officer whoreports to the company’s vice chairman.Chevron operating companies and corporatedepartments have their own Compliance/Audit committees. Annually, all operatingcompanies and corporate department heads submit a Representation Letter to thecorporation confirming they have proc esses
in place that are ef fective and provide a
reasonable assuranc e of c ompliance with 
all applicable policies, laws and regulations.Corporate compliance audits are conductedby the Internal Audit department to helpensure that compliance proc esses are
functioning properly. The Audit Committee ofthe Board of Directors reviews the company’sinternal auditing practices and is responsiblefor corporate compliance oversight. In addition,the Audit Committee is responsible for hiringthe company’s external auditors and for theiroversight, including approving the overallaudit plan.
Internal Audits
As part of our robust audit proc ess, we
conduct numerous rated internal audits eachyear to ensure compliance with applicablepolicies, laws and regulations. Also in 2004,Chevron conducted a number of additionalnonrated audits, which included contractoraudits, investigations, internal controlsconsultation and, for 2004, Sarbanes-OxleyReadiness Reviews. (One requirement of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, passed by the U.S.Congress in 2002, is for companies registeredwith the U.S. Securities and ExchangeCommission to file a Management Report onInternal Control Over Financial Reporting.)The readiness reviews were designed to alertlocations of any actions that needed to betaken in order to be in compliance with theSarbanes-Oxley requirements and pass thecompany’s external audit review. Based on itsassessment, Chevron management concludedthat the company had no “material weakne sses
in its internal control over financial reporting,”and the company’s external auditors agreed
with this conclusion. In the future, Sarbanes-Oxley requirements will be reviewed as partof our compliance audits.
Reporting Violations
Chevron’s BC&E Code requires that instancesof questionable conduct in any area bereported. Any director, employee orcontractor who believes another director,employee or contractor has violated thecompany’s policies or local laws is obligatedto report the violation to management, legalcounsel, the appropriate operating companycompliance committee or the ChevronHotline. We uphold our policy of protectingwhistle-blowers from retaliation.
Any matter submitted to the Chevron Hotline
may be made anonymously if the caller sochoo ses. The hotline is operated offsite by
Global Compliance Services (AlertLine®), anindependent agent. After AlertLine® receivesand logs an incoming matter, it is sent to andinvestigated by the business organization’sappropriate hotline representative. All hotlinematters are reviewed by the corporation’schief compliance officer and law departmentand, if warranted, are elevated to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. All subsequent corrective or disciplinaryaction, which may include termination, takenagainst individuals who violate the BC&ECode is handled at the local level.
In 2004, AlertLine® received 185 hotline
calls. While the calls covered a wide variety 
of concerns, the largest percentage pertained to three classifications:
IHuman resources (56 percent)
ILegal and regulatory (13 percent)
IEnvironment, health, safety and security (11 percent).ETHICS211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 2829Our community of suppliers ranges from large
multinational firms to locally based small-and medium-size enterprises. Sourcingdecisions are driven by many factors, such as supplier capabilities, consistency andquality of supply, cost, and demonstratedability to comply with our safety, reliabilityand environmental standards.
We are committed to building a global
supplier base that provides the best, most cost-effective products and servicesthroughout their life cycle. Our sourcingstrategies also focus on developing a supplier base that reflects the diversity ofour customers, host communities and themarkets we serve. This includes targetedefforts to utilize in-country supplier bases.
To meet these commitments, Chevron focuses
on building the capacity of busine sses by
providing resources and opportunities totargeted sectors, including small- andmedium-size enterprises, minority- andwomen-owned suppliers, and local busine sses.
This approach helps foster economic growthin the communities in which we operate.Supplier Diversity/Small Business Initiatives
In the United States, Chevron’s supplierdiversity program has a strong track recordof extending business opportunities to smallenterprises and companies that are owned by women, veterans and minorities. This is a result of our strategies that emphasizeoutreach to identify new potential suppliersand the inclusion of small and diverse firmsin the competitive-bidding proc ess.
We provide training and support to small and
diverse suppliers, which creates opportunitiesfor them to do business with Chevron andenhances their overall business acumen. For example, we partnered with Cisco Systems;the U.S. Small Business Administration; andthe University of California, Los Angeles,Anderson School of Business to create theManagement Development for EntrepreneursAcademy at San Jose. This innovativeprogram is tailored for small and diversesuppliers of Chevron and Cisco. In 2004, 34 suppliers participated in the four-dayintensive certificate program, which included development of individual business-improvement plans. Our commitment to source from small and
diverse firms is reflected in the aggressivegoals we set. In 2004, we spent approximately$1.4 billion on purchases from small busine sses
in the United States, exceeding our goal ofmaking 27 percent of our total U.S. purchasesfrom small busine sses. We also spent a
combined total of approximately $450 millionwith women- and minority-owned busine sses,
although we fell slightly short of our 
5 percent spending goal for each category.
In addition to co-sponsoring the 2004 annual
conference of the Women’s BusinessEnterprise National Council and leading apanel on tools for business succ ess, we were:
IHonored for the second year as a Top
Corporation by the Women’s BusinessEnterprise National Council for providingopportunities to women-owned busine sses.
IVoted one of the Top 50 Corporations for
Multicultural Business Opportunities by the DiversityBusiness.com online survey.
INamed Corporation of the Year by the
Houston-based Women’s BusinessEnterprise Alliance.
Chevron employees also were recognized 
for individual efforts in this area. In 2004, an employee earned the Buyer of the Yearaward from the Northern California SupplierDevelopment Council. Another employee won recognition as Small Business Advocateof the Year at the Black Expo held in Oakland, California.GLOBAL SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT
Throughout our operations, Chevron relies on a large network of suppliers to meet 
the requirements of our global business. In 2004, Chevron spent approximately $20 billion globally on goods and services from our suppliers.
U.S. Small Business/Supplier Diversity Expenditure
1999US$ million
1,500
1,250
750
5001,000
250
02004 2003 2002 2001 2000
1999
840 Small business2000
9842001
1,0152002
1,3642003
1,3102004
1,360
244Women-owned 
business enterprise
190 178 212 223 222
216Minority-owned 
business enterprise
121 229 209 202 226Rafael Castellano and Fernando Barboza
view the water injection unit of platformLL -652 in Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela.One way our operations here and inother countries support communities isthrough purchases from local suppliers.211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 2930GLOBAL SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT
Supplier Forums
In our international upstream operations,supplier forums are used to educate globaland local suppliers on the requirements ofdoing business with Chevron and to supportindividual business units’ local-contentinitiatives. In 2004, our business unitsconducted supplier forums for the first timein Venezuela and Angola and held a secondforum in Kazakhstan. The company hostedsimilar events the previous year, includingone in Nigeria.
We also encourage our global suppliers,
when appropriate, to partner with localenterprises. The supplier forums helpinitiate relationships between local and global busine sses. They also educate our
suppliers about operational excellence atChevron, including the safety standards and reliability requirements that are criticalelements of our sourcing proc ess.
The supplier forums serve a broader
purpose as well. The partnerships that have developed between local and globalsuppliers have created new opportunitiesfor local busine sses bey ond supplying
Chevron. This is key to their long-termsuccess and helps them contribute to thelocal economies through job creation andincome generation.
Sourcing From Local Suppliers
In the communities in which Chevronoperates outside the United States, we seekto source from local busine sses whenever
possible. Chevron has developed programs in many locations that assist local busine sses
in developing the skills and capacity theyneed to work with our company and theindustry in general to grow their busine sses.
Our business units’ local-content programs
provide local busine sses with a variety of
tools, which include skills training andtechnical assistance, market acc ess, 
business planning, and financing alternatives.The following pages highlight examples ofsome of our programs.In Indonesia, where unemployment for young people is still high,
our subsidiary P.T. Caltex Pacific Indonesia supports youth in theirhome communities by offering vocational training programs, suchas the Putri Tujuh Weaving Project in Dumai. Here, Murhayatilearns to weave traditional sarongs. Thus far, the project hasproduced and sold some 2,400 pieces.211243A4  10/8/05  12:10 pm  Page 3031Extending Loans to Local Businesses 
in KazakhstanThe Kazakhstan government has stronglypromoted small business growth as a keystrategy for developing and stabilizing thecountry’s economy. We are continuing tosupport these efforts through the SmallBusiness Development (SBD) Program of Chevron’s limited liability partnershipTengizchevroil (TCO). The program makesloans to local entrepreneurs and companiesthat supply TCO as well as to companiesthat can benefit the local economy. Since1997, 157 small Kazakh enterprises havereceived interest-free loans through theprogram, totaling $5.7 million, which hashelped create nearly 2,000 jobs.
For example, Tilekshy, a Kazakh company
that specializes in fishing in the Ural Riverand the coastal waters of the Caspian Sea,needed to make facility improvements andupdate its equipment but did not haveavailable capital. Using $100,000 in TCOfinancial assistance, in 2004 Tilekshyinstalled an automated fish-production line,vacuum-packaging line and mechanizedsmoking chambers. This investment helpedTilekshy improve the quality and diversity ofits products. Since then, TCO has purchasedTilekshy’s fish products to serve in employeecafeterias in Atyrau and Tengiz.Creating a Local Business Opportunity 
in NigeriaChevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) expects thatby 2007, 90 percent of what it spends ongoods and services will come from Nigeria-based companies. In 2004, CNL spent $435 million, excluding state taxes, withlocal suppliers. Among those providingservices to CNL is Nigeria’s first AdvancedTechnology Center for Subsurface Studies.The center is equipped to conduct high-endtechnical studies, including geostatisticalreservoir modeling and compositional fluidflow simulation, reservoir audits, improvedreservoir characterization, and horizontal-well performance audits.
CNL teamed with a local company, Vision
Reservoir Management TechnologiesInternational, to help establish the newcenter and acquire the necessary financing.CNL also donated geological equipmentand $150,000 to secure a three-yearleasehold on the facility that VisionReservoir will operate. The center wasawarded a $540,000 contract to provideservices to CNL in 2004.Local Business Development in Indonesia
P.T. Caltex Pacific Indonesia (CPI), aChevron subsidiary, recognized that small,local busine sses and cooperatives in
Indonesia needed greater opportunities to develop supplier relationships with large multinational companies. CPI’s LocalBusiness Development (LBD) Programhelps these busine sses bec ome reliable,
professional and competitive suppliers to the company. It also streamlined itsadministrative process to minimize thebarriers faced by small enterprises.
Small busine sses new to the program
receive training on CPI purchasing proc esses
and project management, information onindustrial health and safety issues, projectmanagement skills, and advice on financingand taxation issues, with emphasis on CPI’s business ethics. As small enterprisesbecome first-time suppliers to CPI, theytend to learn by doing and gradually gainthe competencies and capacity needed to become long-term CPI businesspartners, as well as suppliers to othermajor companies.
Since the program was launched in 2001, CPI
has registered 659 small local enterprises,including 134 in 2004. The collective value of business transactions for LBDparticipants has steadily risen, from $1.5 million in 2001 to $3.9 million in 2004.In 2005, it is estimated that this figure willrise to $4.5 million.
At the Fortuna company, sponsored by Chevron
and joint-venture partner Tengizchevroil throughthe Atyrau Business Incubator Program inKazakhstan, Dina Amaniyazova puts logos onuniforms for oil and gas workers.   Welder Samson Fregene
participated in the Chevron-sponsored Technical SkillsAcquisition Program for localentrepreneurs in Warri, Nigeria. To protect forest land that might otherwise be tilled
for farming, subsidiary Chevron Texaco EnergyIndonesia Limited works with government and local communities to provide alternative means ofgenerating income, such as the Garut sheep breedingand beefing project. 211243A4  10/8/05  12:11 pm  Page 3132Approach
Our business success depends on our abilityto gain access to resources and remain awelcome neighbor in the places in which we live and work. To earn that, we must both be good at our business and distinguishourselves by positively contributing to the quality of life in the countries where we operate.
In 2004, Chevron invested an estimated 
$63.8 million in community initiatives andprojects around the world. A large portion ofthese funds were invested in programs thatbuild capacity, such as health and educationand small business development. A smallerportion of funds were used to support artsand culture and environmental projects.
The Challenge
In many of the places in which Chevronoperates, poverty presents a barrier toachieving a higher standard of living andquality of life. For Chevron, helping combatpoverty is not solely a moral or ethicalimperative, it is also a business imperative.Our success depends on stable operatingenvironments, sound governance systems,trained and skilled employee pools, and the existence of markets for our products. Poverty undercuts all of these, and our
approach to community engagement isdesigned to help address this challenge.
Capacity Building
Our experience with community engagementinitiatives has led us to redefine ourapproach toward a more coordinated andsustainable model. We will increasingly focusour community investment efforts on helpingcreate economic growth through human andinstitutional capacity building. This is drivenby our belief that communities prosper whenpeople are able to help themselves and aresupported by an environment that enablesthem to pursue their ambitions. We willtarget our resources toward the three areaswe consider critical to economic development:
IBasic human needs
IEducation and career training
ISmall- and medium-size business development and access to credit
We believe this approach will have greater
impact by helping create sustainable, scalableprojects aimed at removing critical barriers,building human and institutional capacity,and stimulating economic development. We also recognize that strong partnershipswith host governments, local communities,nongovernmental organizations andmultilateral institutions will be essential in ensuring the success of any project.Going Forward
Finding ways to adequately measure andevaluate our community programs is an areawe seek to strengthen. On some projects,Chevron has begun setting goals andestablishing metrics to measure short-termsuccesses and long-term benefits. While
dollars spent is one metric, we believe thatthe best measures are based on outcomes.Projects focused on capacity buildingoften take years before the benefits to acommunity are fully realized.
We are working to define and develop the
necessary internal capacity to administer,manage, fund and measure these variousinitiatives. We have come to appreciate thatour approach to community engagementdemands significant time and resources aswell as the right skills and competencies ofour employees.
Finally, as we focus more of our funding on
capacity building and economic developmentinitiatives, it may mean a shift away fromsome earlier programs not aligned with thisnew emphasis. We are considering ways tothoughtfully and effectively manage theeffects such shifts may have on thosecommunities and organizations.COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Chevron sponsored vocational
training for 15 boys in an Almatyorphanage. The program wasdesigned in partnership withAlina Limited, a Kazakhstancompany that manufacturespaints, plaster and otherconstruction materials.  
Discovering, developing and delivering energy takes us to nearly every corner of 
the globe, across a variety of cultures, environments and circumstances. One issue that remains constant is the importance of developing and maintaining positiverelationships with local communities. 
Global Community Investments (2004)
34.8North America
14.6Africa
6.6Eurasia
4.6Latin America
1.7Asia-Pacific
0.6Europe
$63.8mTotalAmount spent in US$ million
0.9Middle East
Chevron and USAID have developed a partnership in the truest sense. It is a relationship
based on sharing the “three R’s”: respect, risk and rewards. As a government developmentagency and a private enterprise collaborating on economic opportunity and growth for theworld’s poor est, we have worked hard to build trust and an understanding of the assets each
brings to these development challenges. This strong foundation is the base for innovativepublic-private alliances we have forged together across the globe.
Chevron’s focus on economic opportunity reaches beyond traditional philanthropy. 
Investing in people – helping them to attain the skills, jobs and financing they need tosupport themselves – offers the best prospect for sustained impact on families andcommunities. USAID welcomes this focus, and the opportunity to join forces with Chevron in making a difference for those most in need. 
Holly Wise, Founder, 
Global Development Alliance, United States Agency for International Development“
”Includes Chevron’s share in
Chevron Phillips ChemicalCompany, the Tengizchevroil jointventure, and the KarachaganakPetroleum Operating consortium.211243A4  10/8/05  12:11 pm  Page 3233
Subsidiary P.T. Caltex Pacific Indonesia
has sent medical teams to refugeecamps in Nangroe Aceh Darussalamprovince to provide health services for victims of the December 26, 2004,earthquake and tsunami catastrophe.NovoBanco, supported with
funding from Chevron, is amicrolending and full-servicebank providing much-neededfinancing for small busine sses
in Angola.
In Angola, we help fund the Discovery Channel 
Global Education Partnership, which trainsteachers to use technology as a teaching tool andwhich uses interactive teaching methods to involveand interest students in learning. Chevron supporthas helped the program establish six learningcenters in Cabinda province, and the program is expanding to Bengo and Huambo provinces.
Responding to the Tsunami
As news of the December 2004 tsunamidisaster spread, Chevron quickly learnedthat all employees in South Asia were safe, although many of their familymembers were affected. We immediatelytook action to support relief efforts, making early contributions totaling $2 million that were used for urgentlyneeded humanitarian relief in nationshardest hit, especially Indonesia.
In the weeks following the tsunami, it
became evident that while the immediatecrisis was being addr essed, a massive and
unprecedented re covery and rebuilding
effort would be needed. Chevron respondedby pledging an additional $10 million overthe next three years to fund programsaimed at restoring and strengthening thedevastated communities. We intend toapply our experiences in other countries to the task, actively developing, managingand participating in collaborative projectsto ensure lasting, positive benefits. 
Before launching any significant projects, 
we are conducting a comprehensive needsassessment, consulting with our localbusiness units, engaging key stakeholders,and seeking partnership opportunities inorder to best serve the interests of thosemost affected by the tsunami. The majorfocus will be in Indonesia, where Chevronhas an 80-year history and is a majorproducer. Some projects will helpcommunities in neighboring countries.Angola Partnership Initiative Update
Chevron’s wholly owned subsidiary CabindaGulf Oil Company Limited has succ essfully
maintained its operations in Angola sincethe 1950s, even through a nationallydebilitating 30-year civil war. When peacetook hold in 2002, Chevron committed tohelp efforts to rebuild the country.
At the end of 2002, Chevron announced
the five-year, $50 million AngolaPartnership Initiative (API), pledging $25 million to the effort. Key API partnersinclude the Angolan government, theUnited States Agency for InternationalDevelopment (USAID), the United NationsDevelopment Programme and severalnongovernmental organizations.
The initiative’s overarching goal is to build
human and institutional capacity. A varietyof projects are well under way, covering jobtraining and creation, microlending, andbusiness development services to incubatelocal enterprises, including efforts torestart Angola’s agricultural sector. 
Providing Access to Credit
In August 2004, the first NovoBancobranch opened in the Angolan capital,Luanda, and immediately began providingmuch-needed financing to small enterprises– the first full-service bank in the countryto focus on this need. Supported withfunding from Chevron, USAID and severalEuropean development institutions,NovoBanco makes loans of up to $15,000to Angolan citizens operating their ownbusine sses. Up to 10 new br anches are
planned over the next five years to serveall of Angola’s major towns in this way.Bringing Technology to the Classroom
Through an alliance between Chevron andthe Discovery Channel Global EducationPartnership, local school children in theCabinda, Bengo and Huambo provinces inAngola are experiencing a world beyondtheir own. During 2004, 19 learning centerswere furnished with TV and video equipment.Over the next three years, up to 80,000students will benefit from the technology,and more than 300 teachers will be trainedto operate it. This project supports the goals of Angola’s Ministry of Education and Culture to advance professionaldevelopment for teachers and increaselearning opportunities for school children.The words of one Huambo teacher speakvolumes about the project’s impact: “You came to renew in us the trust andconfidence that in this world, shattered by hate and discord, we are not alone.”
Chevron is providing $1.2 million in new
funding to the Discovery Channel GlobalEducation Partnership to expand theprogram in Angola as well as extend it tocommunities in South Africa and Venezuela.
Going Forward
Chevron is committed to API’s long-termgoal of capacity building and will continue to support efforts that advance this goal. In 2005 and 2006, we will continue topromote commercial seed production inAngola to build the country’s agriculturesector. We will also provide support forthose reintegrating and resettling after theyears of civil war. Finally, we will develop along-term initiative to help develop Angolannongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and governmental development agencies.
211243A4  10/8/05  12:11 pm  Page 3334COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Q&A With Jay Pryor, the Managing Director
of Our Nigerian Business Unit
Q: Can you comment on the company’s role
in the Niger Delta?
A: Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) works hardto play a positive role in the Niger Delta, aregion rich in people and resources. Over theyears, CNL’s goal has been to contribute tothe economy and quality of life of people inthe region. In addition to the tax and royaltypayments we make to the government, wehave spent – and continue to spend – millionsof dollars in community investments to build schools, furnish scholarships, supportskills development and promote health care programs, including the sponsorship of HIV/AIDS awareness programs for ouremployees and the communities in which we operate. We also promote economiccapacity building by creating jobs – ourworkforce is more than 90 percent Nigerian– and by contracting goods and servicesthrough local busine sses. Fi nally, CNL
operations promote the highest ethical andenvironmental standards. However, the Niger Delta presents complex issues. While we believe that the major issues areprimarily the responsibility of the Nigeriangovernment, CNL recognizes that we have a role to play by supporting governmentefforts and pursuing our own corporateresponsibility initiatives. Q: Despite these efforts, community
dissatisfaction in the Niger Delta persists.What are you doing to respond?A: It is important to recognize that no onealone can solve the issues of the region. All stakeholders – including governments,communities and civil society, and companies– need to work together to address theneeds of the region and create a peacefulplace to live and work. CNL is committed to doing its part through dialogue and bytargeting programs to build capacity andcontribute to economic growth. Since the oil industry is more capital-intensive thanpeople-intensive, we are increasingly focusing our economic empowerment efforts on such areas as agriculture andsmall-scale business development, includingproviding microcredit opportunities. To leverage expertise and resources, we are also increasingly encouraging moreparticipatory partnership opportunities with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),donor agencies, government developmentagencies – including the Niger DeltaDevelopment Commission (NDDC) – stategovernments, and other oil companies. 
Q: Are you using any new approaches to
manage the complexities in the region? A: We are constantly looking at new ideas.One new approach is to work with regionaldevelopment councils. This broadens our reachbeyond our immediate host communities.The shift will allow for development to occur regionally, with greater dialogue and
transparency as community membersparticipate alongside representatives ofstate governments, NGOs, donor agenciesand CNL to plan, implement and monitordevelopment initiatives.
Q: Does CNL work with the government on
the development of the Niger Delta region?A: Yes, we do. For example, in 2004, CNLcontributed about $30 million from our annualbudget to the NDDC, the lead governmentagency responsible for development of theregion. That is in addition to the communityinvestments CNL makes through our ownprograms. We welcome opportunities towork with state governments to addressspecific needs in the region. Our hope is that through constant engagement with thestate governments in the area, the 13 percentof oil revenues allocated to them by thefederal government will be used judiciouslyfor development.
Q: Does CNL incorporate the Voluntary
Principles on Security and Human Rights?A: Yes. The management of our securityoperations is consistent with the VoluntaryPrinciples. For example, despite the fact thatgovernment security forces deployed to ourlocations do not take direct instruction ororders from us, we make it clear that undueuse of force on community members will not be tolerated and that the rights of allcitizens must be respected at all times. 
“Over the years, CNL’s goal has been to contribute 
to the economy and quality of life of people in the region,” says Jay Pryor, managing director ofChevron’s Nigerian business unit.Company-sponsored engineering trainees
Monisola Odunuga (foreground) andOyenike Oyedele on the Roy ButlerPlatform offshore Niger Delta.The Technical Skills Acquisition
Program in Warri providedtraining to business centeroffice manager Evelyn Wilkey.
211243A4  10/8/05  12:11 pm  Page 3435Building Capacity in U.S. Communities
In 2004, Chevron expanded our communityengagement efforts with a nearly $9 millioninitiative aimed at building long-termcapacity through education and training in nine U.S. locations. 
At the end of 2004, major new projects in
New Orleans, Louisiana; Washington, D.C.;Houston, Texas; and four locations inMississippi were funded, and plans wereunder way to initiate projects in severalCalifornia communities in early 2005. All the projects have an educationalcomponent, ranging from early literacy to job-skills training.For example, Chevron contributed $1 million
to advance the New Orleans Public Schools’Signature Schools Program for high schoolstudents. 
The program provides specialized training 
in areas such as automotive technology,aviation, aerospace science and technology,environmental and medical science,and culinary arts, while allowing studentsto complete their regular cour ses. After
successfully completing the program,students should be ready to enter college oran advanced training program, or to obtain ajob. At the end of 2004, approximately 600students were enrolled.
In 2004, Chevron donated $1 million to the New Orleans,
Louisiana, Public School’s Signature Schools Program, whichprovides students with job-shadowing opportunities, internshipsand field experiences related to their potential career choices.
Creating Opportunity in Latin America
Chevron has long invested in education,vocational training, health care and othercommunity programs throughout the LatinAmerican and Caribbean countries in whichwe operate. Our investments help individualsincrease their skills and capabilities,enabling them to contribute to sustainedeconomic growth in their communities.
One example is the Majayura Social and
Business Development Center in Riohacha,Colombia. Chevron is collaborating in this project with the Pan AmericanDevelopment Foundation, the La Guajirastate government and several othernational and international organizations.The center’s original objective was to help 230 vulnerable families displaced byviolence, but it now has a far wider impact,providing an estimated 2,500 people withhealth services and informal job training.
During 2004, the center trained nearly 
700 people for a variety of occupations in fields such as construction, apparel
manufacturing, commercial baking andcomputers. Since 2003, workers trained at the center have filled 122 jobs at thecompany’s production units and another520 jobs created indirectly by thecompany’s operations.
Chevron has provided 40 percent of the
funding over the project’s three-yearduration – approximately $300,000, of which half was contributed in 2004. To successfully sustain the project,additional resources will be required forworking parents, business developmentservices and permanent housing. We havealready begun efforts to establish a day-care center so parents have a safe place toleave their children during working hours.211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 3536COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Contributing to the Environment and
Economic Growth in the PhilippinesSupported by Caltex (Philippines) Inc., a wholly owned Chevron subsidiary, Good Roots takes a hands-on approach to environmental preservation, focusing on regenerating forests while helping 
rural farmers improve their livelihoods.
It is estimated that at the beginning of the
20th century, there were 617 million acres(250 million hectares) of forest in SoutheastAsia. By the end of the century, only 148 million acres (60 million hectares)
remained. Good Roots addr esses this issue
by engaging rural farming families andencouraging them to plant a variety ofhardwood and fruit-bearing trees most suitedto the land. Participating farmers are thenprovided seedlings, technology and technicaltraining. As the trees mature, they become arenewable source of income for the farmers.
Each Good Roots project spans five years,
enough time for project technicians to work with farmers and ensure the project’slong-term sustainability. Recent project
locations have included Lobo, Batangas, and Pugo, La Union.
Since 1992, Caltex has invested more than
$850,000 in Good Roots and has committedan additional $280,000 for a new pr oject to
be launched in Baguio in 2005. The U.S.-basedSouthern Methodist University and thePhilippines’ Department of Environmentaland Natural Resources have also contributedto what are now visible results – thousandsof trees thriving in Pagudpud and Lobo.Below Project director Ben Wallace (left) and a local resident inspect
seedlings as part of Good Roots, a project supported by Chevron subsidiaryCaltex (Philippines) Inc. that has helped some 180 household communitieswith farming and tree planting in La Union, Philippines. Each Good Rootsproject spans five years, allowing enough time to train farmers and ensurelong-term sustainability. Right Team member Antonio Garvida. 
211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 3637Many agree that one strategy for combating
this phenomenon is through improvedtransparency about the financialarrangements between energy-producingcountries and the extractive industries.Greater transparency of energy-relatedrevenues can lead to better governance and more accountability and can help createan informed citizenry. Moreover, leaders of resource-rich nations, along with energycompanies and others, have come toappreciate how revenue transparency cancontribute to greater social stability and helpcreate a climate that encourages investmentand fosters economic growth. 
Chevron continues to advocate for greater
transparency and supports the ExtractiveIndustries Transparency Initiative. Ourposition on this issue is that:
IDecisions on transparency and disclosuremust be voluntarily made by each energy-producing country, as the resources belongto them.
ITransparency requirements must beinclusive – not unilateral – by applying thesame disclosure standards to governmentsand companies.
ITransparency proc esses must honor the
sanctity of contracts.
During 2004, in partnership with our host
governments, we continued our efforts to advance transparency. In Nigeria, thisincludes ongoing participation in the National Stakeholders Working Group, which is assisting the government in itsefforts to enhance revenue transparency. 
We also worked constructively with the
Angolan government in advance of itsextension of a contract to our company’sAngolan subsidiary. The result was a ground-breaking public announcement in 2004 bythe Angolan government and Sonangol, thenational oil company, of the $210 millionsigning bonus and an additional $80 millionsocial bonus, part of which was targetedspecifically for the Cabinda province, paid by
the association partners under terms of theextension agreement. 
Chevron also negotiated a Production
Sharing Contract (PSC) with the Nigeria–SãoTomé e Príncipe Joint Development Authority(JDA) on Block 1 in the Joint DevelopmentZone. Chevron’s $123 million bid for the blockwas accepted by the JDA, and the contractwas signed in early 2005. The contractcontains a transparency clause that commitsthe JDA to publicly disclose payments made to them under the contract quarterly. 
The disclosure of future payments is inkeeping with the transparent manner inwhich the bid round was conducted. 
Chevron credits the two governments for
initiating the transparency requirements inthe contract, which indicates their resolveand commitment to a new standard ofaccountability. We have long believed thatany effort to address the management of oil revenues should be led by affectedgovernments, not imposed on them by others.REVENUE TRANSPARENCY
The relationship between a country’s natural resource wealth and its social and economic
development has been the subject of attention in recent years among government,industry and nongovernmental sectors. Of particular concern are situations in somecountries and regions in which stagnant or declining economic growth persists despite the existence of valuable natural resources.
[In the results of the Measuring Revenue Transparency Index, Chevron’s weighted overall
score was 28.7 percent, which placed it fourth out of 25 companies overall.]
Of the seven companies with operations in Angola that were surveyed, only Chevron
disclosed details of a payment… While companies argue they cannot act unilaterally for fear of damaging their relations with the Angolan government, the approach taken by Chevron shows that it is possible to work with the government to achieve greatertransparency.
Chevron… made an important announcement on 1 February, 2005. Chevron JDZ Limited
signed a production sharing contract (PSC) with the Nigeria–São Tomé e Príncipe JointDevelopment Authority. Chevron will operate the project, and the co-venturers includeExxonMobil and Dangote Energy. The PSC contains a transparency clause which requiresthat all payments (including production bonuses, signature bonuses, and profit oil and lifting costs) be disclosed to the Joint Development Authority, which will then, inaccordance with the terms of the clause, publish this information on its website. This is an important step forward in the drive towards greater revenue payments transparency,and inclusion of this transparency clause in a PSC is an encouraging development. It alsodemonstrates the power of the collective voluntary approach in supporting transparency. 
While companies must be credited for their collaborative, negotiated initiatives with host
governments, this means that progress is slow and proceeds on an ad hoc, piecemealbasis; the good performance demonstrated in one country… is not replicated in othercountries of operation. [The recommended approach] is systematic disclosure ofpayments for every country of operation.
Excerpts from “Beyond the Rhetoric,” a report by Save the Children UK, published in 2005“
”211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 3738Where permitted by law, we engage in public-
policy debates; directly and indirectly lobbypublic officials and institutions; and at timessupport political candidates, parties andcampaigns. All of our activities are governedby our commitment to the highest ethicalstandards, transparency, and compliance withall applicable laws and regulations governinglobbying, political contributions and gifts.
Participating in Public-Policy Debates
We believe real value is added to the public-policy debate and decision-making process by contributing the opinions of Chevron andour employees, who are encouraged to maketheir views known in the appropriate publicforums and to elected officials. At times wealso engage in policy debates in countriesoutside the United States, but only if permittedby the laws and customs of the particularcountry. This would include taking positions on issues that affect our company or ouremployees.
Lobbying
Lobbying is an essential and constructive part of the political proc ess. As a stak eholder,
Chevron seeks to work ethically, constructivelyand in a bipartisan manner to influencepublic-policy decisions by sharing informationand advocating our view on issues orproposed legislation. We do this throughdirect communication with public officialsand indirectly by encouraging our employees,stockholders and others to communicate withthose officials. Chevron also participates intrade associations or other organizations thatengage in lobbying. Chevron complies with allgovernment-imposed registration and reportingregulations related to our lobbying activities.Political Contributions
Where permitted by law, politicalcontributions are allowed under corporatepolicy and are subject to strict internalapproval proc esses and proc edures,
regardless of the amount or the country oforigin. All requests for these contributionsare planned, budgeted, legally reviewed and approved by management in advance.Chevron makes contributions to politicalcandidates and political organizations that support economic development, free enterprise and good governance. In determining our support of candidates, we consider their prior voting records onissues of importance to Chevron, theirleadership or committee assignments,whether they generally have a pro-businessphilosophy, and whether the company or ouremployees have a constituent relationship.
In the United States, corporations are
prohibited by law from making contributionsto candidates running for U.S. federal officeand certain state and local offices. Wherepermitted, Chevron makes contributions tostate and local candidates and to politicalparties and committees. Contributions alsoare made to support our views on local andstate ballot measures.
Outside the United States, it is our practice 
to make political contributions only in limitedinstances and in accordance with all laws andregulations governing those contributions.These contributions support candidates and parties whose public-policy positions are aimed at encouraging both energydevelopment and broad, sustainableeconomic growth to benefit society.In 2004, Chevron made more than $2.3 million
in corporate political contributions in theUnited States, of which 43 percent went to politically affiliated candidates andorganizations and the remaining 57 percentwent to ballot initiatives or organizations notaffiliated with a political party. 
During the year, we also launched a new
internal Web site aimed at providing greatertransparency and fostering participation inthe U.S. political process among employees.The site contains a listing of the company’spolitical contributions, information aboutcandidates, an online voter registrationmechanism and the ability to requestabsentee ballots. It is Chevron’s policy tofurnish a list of all political contributions to any stockholder upon written request.
Chevron Employees Political Action
CommitteeThe Chevron Employees Political ActionCommittee (CEPAC) is a forum for eligibleemployees to voluntarily contribute limitedamounts to a fund that supports the electionof candidates for federal and certain stateoffices in the United States, as authorized by and in accordance with applicable laws.CEPAC provides a collective mechanism forChevron employees to exercise their right to participate in the democratic electoralprocess. CEPAC is v oluntary and employees’
participation is not shared with the company’smanagement. Unless participants designatetheir contributions for a specific candidate,the CEPAC board determines which candidatesto support. By policy, CEPAC does not makecontributions to presidential candidates orpolitical parties.
During the 2003–2004 election cycle, CEPAC
contributed $457,430 to U.S. federal, stateand local candidates. A list of contributionsmade during 2003–2004 can be viewed onthe Federal Election Commission Web site.
ENGAGING IN THE POLITICAL PROCESS
Through a constructive, practical approach, Chevron exercises our fundamental 
right and responsibility to influence public-policy decisions in ways that are in the best interests of our company and our stakeholders, which include stockholders,employees, customers and communities. 211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 3839Lobbying for Energy Efficiency
Energy efficiency is a focus in both our ownoperations and our public-policy efforts. Thisposition is aligned with our commitment toenvironmental responsibility and with ourbusiness objectives. We view energy efficiencyas one of the easi est, most r eliable sources
of “new” energy that minimizes both costsand environmental impacts. Additionally,through our subsidiary Chevron EnergySolutions, we are seeking to expand onenergy efficiency as a business opportunity(see page 50).
Recently, Chevron lobbied for a measure
that would allow the U.S. federal government– the largest energy consumer in the United States – to continue upgradingfederal facilities and military bases withenergy-efficient equipment under theEnergy Savings Performance Contract (ESPC) Program. This innovative program
was launched in 1995, three years afterCongress passed ESPC legislation as part of the Energy Policy Act of 1992.
From 1995 to 2003, private-sector contractors
invested an estimated $1.7 billion in energy-efficiency projects, which included installingand maintaining new equipment in hundredsof federal facilities. The contractors arerepaid with the dollars the governmentsaves on its energy and maintenance bills.This program enables the government toupgrade equipment with no upfront costs,conserve energy and, after the investment is repaid, save taxpayers millions of dollars.
When the ESPC program authorization
expired in late 2003, it stalled approximately$400 million in investments in projects already under way and put 4,000 jobs in the United States on hold. In 2004, Chevron,
with a coalition that included groups such as the Sierra Club, the InternationalBrotherhood of Teamsters, the Edison ElectricInstitute and several other organizations,strongly advocated for the reauthorizationof the ESPC program. As a result, Section1091 of the Defense Authorization Billincluded the provision to do so, which led to the program’s extension until 2006.
Chevron Energy Solutions is one of the
contractors currently performing significantwork under the ESPC program.
As part of a larger project with the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) to make energy-efficiency
improvements at several facilities, Chevron Energy Solutions installed a 403-kilowatt solarphotovoltaic canopy at a USPS facility in Sacramento, California. With upgrades at this facilityand several others in Northern California, the USPS expects to save more than $2 million peryear in energy costs (see case study on page 50). Photo courtesy of PowerLight Corporation.211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 3940ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 
ENVIRONMENTAL
211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 4041On the pages that follow, we provide an overview of our environmental issues,
descriptions of how we manage them, and a report on our performance. This sectionalso discusses some of Chevron’s innovations in clean fuels and other emergingtechnologies that have environmental benefits. We believe we made good progress in 2004, particularly in the areas of energy efficiency and spill reduction. We also met our greenhouse gas emissions goal. 
During 2004, we undertook an effort to enhance our environmental strategy to improve
performance. The enhanced strategy builds on our existing Operational ExcellenceManagement System (described on page 10). Priorities will be on defining operatingstandards, measuring and communicating performance, and demonstrating continuousimprovement. This effort is a continuation of our long-time commitment to protectingpeople and the environment and integral to meeting our goal to be recognized andadmired for environmental excellence.Left Chevron’s West African Gas Pipeline group uses Ikonos satellite imagery to 
plan pipeline routes that avoid developed and environmentally sensitive areas. The infrared band here maps biomass as red, making vegetation much easier to see. Below Near the Darajat geothermal field on the island of Java, Indonesia, subsidiary
Chevron Texaco Energy Indonesia Limited’s “regreening” program began in 1990 toprotect and restore forest land around our operations. By joining with governmentdepartments and NGOs, the program has grown and, thus far, has succ essfully
restored 570 acres (231 hectares) of for est.
211243A4  10/8/05  12:12 pm  Page 41BYPRO DUCTS RESOURCES MITIGATION
ACTIVITIESPROCESS
STAGEDOWNSTREAM UPSTREAM Design  and 
ConstructionMIDSTREAM
Oil and Natural  Gas
Transportation Oil and Natural  Gas 
Exploration  and ProductionRefining  and
Regasification
PRODUCTS PRODUCTS
Jet FuelGasolineLPGNatural  GasCokeAsphaltLubricating  OilDiesel  Fuel
Natural  GasCrude  Oil
42ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES OVERVIEW
Air Emissions
GHGsLightNoiseWasteWaterLight
NoiseWasteAir Emissions
GHGsWaterAir Emissions
GHGsLightNoiseWasteWater
IEnvironmental, Social and
Health Impact Assessments
IFlare/Vent Minimization
IDrilling-Discharge Management
IWater/Gas Reinjection
IPipeline-Integrity Management
IWaste/Water Management
IEnergy EfficiencyIEnergy Efficiency
IClean Fuels 
IFurnace NOxMitigation
IWaste/Water Management
IFlare Minimization
ICatalyst Regeneration
ICogenerationIFootprintMinimization
IWaste Management
ILight and Noise Impact Minimization
ITraffic ManagementIDouble-Hull Tankers
ITank-Truck Driving Safety
IJourney Management
IPipeline-IntegrityManagement
Protecting people and the environment is 
a core value for Chevron. Our goal is to berecognized and admired worldwide for safety,health and environmental excellence byinstitutionalizing our Operational ExcellenceManagement System. We strive to continuallyimprove our environmental performance andreduce impacts from our operations.
Our primary products are fuels intended to
be used for combustion by our customers. We are providing increasingly cleaner-burningfuels. Additionally, we produce these productswith an emphasis on improving energyefficiency and conserving natural resourceswhile reducing emissions per unit of output.BYPRODUCTS
Air Emissions NOx, SOx, CO2and particulates
are byproducts of combustion in our operations.The primary sources are flares, furnaces used to refine our products and internal combustionengines for power generation. The primary source of VOCs are emissions from tank vents and rotating equipment.
GHGs Direct greenhouse gas emissions, 
such as CO2and CH4, are primarily combustion
byproducts from flares, furnaces and internalcombustion engines.
Light Lighting is installed throughout our
operations for workplace illumination and personnelprotection. Flaring also generates light.Noise Combustion equipment, pumps,
compr essors, valves, s eismic equipment and flares
all have the potential to generate noise.
Waste Solid or liquid byproducts that have no
further productive use within our operations.
Water Wastewater is generated by operations,
including “produced water.” Unplanned incidentssuch as spills can also affect water.Environmental Issues
Our Operational Excellence Management System provides specific corporatewide expectations for environmental performance and pro cesses.                                                        211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 42Transportation Storage
Markets /End UseDecommissioning  
and Remediation
TechnologyElectricityLubricantsWaxPlastics Domestic
AutomotiveAviationAgriculturalRailNauticalIndustrialFUELS
43Air Emissions
GHGsWaterAir Emissions Air Emissions
GHGsWaste
IProperty Transfer Process
ISite-Remediation Best
PracticesIUnderground Storage TankIntegrity
IVapor Recovery
IInventory and Supply ChainOptimizationIDouble-Hull Tankers
ITank-Truck DrivingSafety
IJourney Management
IPipeline-IntegrityManagementIVent Recovery Systems
IDouble-Bottom Tanks
ISecondary Containment
ITank-IntegrityManagement
RESOURCES
Energy Energy is consumed within our
operations. While primarily natural gas, it can be other fuels, electricity or geothermal energy, wind, solar or other forms of energy.
Land Many of our facilities are land-based,
and some are based offshore. Offshore facilitiestypically rest on the ocean floor. Use of land canaffect biodiversity, including ecological habitats and species.Water Use Water is used as an efficient
cooling medium in most of our facilities. 
Chemicals Chemicals are used in oil and gas
production as well as in refining – to maximizeefficiency, to treat products and byproducts, and as catalysts.This diagram provides an overview of Chevron’s core business activities and the key
environmental issues we face. The issues listed in the diagram and at each stage are not exhaustive. Rather, we have sought to identify the byproducts and resources used or affected that are most significant at each stage in the life cycle of our operations.Additionally, the diagram provides examples of some of the key steps we are taking tominimize impact and protect the environment at each stage.
                                   We seek to manage the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations and product s throughout their entire life cycle.211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 43Energy Efficiency at Chevron
Energy efficiency provides the easi est,
cheapest and most reliable source of “new”energy available today. It also providessignificant environmental benefits in terms of reduced greenhouse gases (GHGs) andother emissions. Chevron believes energyefficiency must be integral to how allcompanies operate and must be central to any comprehensive energy policy.
At Chevron, conservation starts at home.
Getting our products – whether natural gas,propane, gasoline, jet fuel, diesel or homeheating oil, to name a few – from the groundto the market takes significant amounts ofenergy. We have long been committed toimproving energy efficiency across ouroperations for the environmental as well as economic benefits it brings.Energy efficiency is an expectation of our
Operational Excellence Management System(OEMS), discussed on page 10. For the past 13 years, we have focused attention onenergy efficiency, have measured theprogress and have seen excellent results.Since 1992, Chevron has reducedcompanywide energy use per unit of output by 24 percent.
2004 Energy Efficiency Performance
We beat our 2004 energy efficiency target by two full points on our Chevron EnergyIndex (CEI). This is a two-point improvementcompared with 2003 and represents savingsof approximately 20.85 trillion Btus of energyand $72 million. Our progress in energyefficiency provides real, on-the-groundenvironmental benefits, both globally throughdecreased GHG emissions and locally throughreduced air pollutants such as nitrogenoxides (NO
x) and sulfur oxides (SOx). Our total energy consumption in 2004 was
873 trillion Btus, which is approximatelyequivalent to the amount of energy the U.S.state of Utah uses in a year and less than 10 percent of the energy Chevron provides in a year. 
Energy Efficiency in the Future 
Going forward, three aspects of the operatingenvironment create challenges for continuedprogress in cutting our energy use:
IMaturing oil fields require more energyinput for each barrel of oil produced.
IDepletion of oil supplies that are relativelyeasy to extract leads to the need for moretechnically challenging and energy-intensive reserves.
IIncreasing demand for clean fuels requires us to use more energy during the refining stage.
44CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
At Chevron, we share the concerns of governments and the public about climate change.
We developed a formal, business-driven climate change strategy in 2001, comprising afourfold action plan outlined in the table below. We have reviewed our approach in light of developments in science, technology and global policy and believe it continues to berobust and appropriate. 
Strategy Element
1. Reducing emissions of
GHGs and increasing energy efficiency
2. Investing in research,
development and improved technology
3. Pursuing business
opportunities in promising, innovativeenergy technologies
4. Supporting flexible and
economically sound policies andmechanisms thatprotect the environmentKey Actions
ISet GHG emissions goal.
IComplete an independent review and as sessment of our GHG inventory system.
IImplement energy efficiency programs.
IPursue projects to reduce venting and flaring of natural gas.
IAnalyze cost-of-carbon scenarios in capital project budgeting. 
IInitiate work to develop a long-term GHG profile for the company.
ICarbon dioxide capture and storage in geologic formations.
IProvide expertise to governments on carbon dioxide capture and storage.
IDevelop proprietary gas-to-liquids technology.
IMake selective investments in alternative and renewable technologies.
IExpand geothermal power in Indonesia. 
IOffer services to help organizations implement energy efficiency and renewable and alternative
energy projects.
IPursue commercial-scale gas-to-liquids projects on three continents.
IComply with European Union Emissions Trading Scheme; develop projects under the CleanDevelopment Mechanism.
IDevelop strategy and governance to engage in carbon markets. 
IParticipate in the public-policy debate on climate change and energy efficiency. More information
page 47 page 46 page 44 page 56 (Flaring section)page 46page 47 
page 46 
page 47page 53 (case study)
page 48 (case study)
page 49 (case study)page 50 (case study)
page 53 (case study)page 45 page 45 
page 39 (Political Process section)211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 4445Our commitment to energy efficiency is a
core part of our response to these realities.We expect to sustain the gains made in 2004and have set a CEI target of 76 for 2005. 
Understanding the Effects of Changing
PoliciesThe Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty toreduce GHG emissions, entered into force onFebruary 16, 2005. More than 140 nations haveratified the treaty, including developed countriesthat account for more than 60 percent ofglobal GHG emissions. Europe has begunimplementation of the Kyoto Protocol bylimiting emissions from its industries and byallowing industries and busine sses to trade
emissions allowances under a EuropeanUnion–wide emissions trading program.
Chevron’s sources of emissions in the
advanced industrialized countries that have ratified the Kyoto Protocol (therefore,European nations, Japan and Canada)represent no more than 10 percent of ourtotal 2004 CO
2-equivalent emissions. 
We respect the decisions that countries madewith regard to the treaty, and we continue 
to develop ways to reduce our own emissionsand help our customers and business partnersreduce theirs.The Kyoto Protocol encourages emissions
reductions in developing countries through the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).This mechanism allows emissions reductioncredits from projects that contribute todeveloping countries’ economic, environmentaland social development to be traded todeveloped countries for use in meeting theiremissions limits. Chevron’s projects in severalcountries have the potential to help reduceemissions and generate CDM credits. 
For example, Chevron Texaco Energy Indonesia
Limited is seeking approvals by appropriateIndonesian and international authorities fortradable credits related to the plannedexpansion of a geothermal power project.These credits can contribute significantly tothe viability of projects that reduce or offsetGHG emissions (see case study on page 49).
As part of our strategy for engaging in the
European Union Emissions Trading Schemeand other emerging carbon markets, we have established a carbon markets team. This team will assist our units in achievingregulatory compliance while using the lowest-cost emissions credits and maximizing theearnings of emissions credits sold to non-Chevron entities.
Chevron has made significant progress in acknowledging the threat posed by climate change
and gauging the risks to its busine sses. By setting an emissi ons goal and assuming a cost for
carbon in the capital allocation proc ess, Chevron has taken key first steps toward mitigating
these risks. However, as governments, investors and the scientific community are focusingincreased attention on climate change, Chevron will need to do more if it hopes to remaincompetitive in the coming carbon-constrained world. 
In our opinion, the fundamental challenge facing Chevron and other fossil-energy producers
is that global carbon emissions must start to fall in the next two decades to prevent themost severe potential effects of climate change. Given the projected massive increase inglobal energy demand over the coming decades, this is no small task. We believe Chevronwill need to rethink its plans to invest $10 billion a year in oil and gas development, withgreater emphasis on natural gas and substantial new investments in renewable energy –areas where it currently lags some of its peers – as part of a strategy to significantly reduceits long-term emissions profile.
We are confident that Chevron will be part of the solution to this problem. The company has
taken some credible first steps in dealing with climate change which indicate it recognizesthe importance of this issue. However, management needs to continue to as sess and, as
needed, update its strategy to ensure it is a holistic one that addr esses both the risks and
opportunities presented by climate change, and it must let investors know how its corebusine sses will be affected.
Andrew Logan, Program Manager, Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES)“
”Chevron Energy Index
The Chevron Energy Index (CEI) is a keymeasurement tool for our company. We established the index to track energy use consistently and drive improvedperformance of our operations.
Total energy consumption for the company 
is affected by disparate factors, includingacquisitions and divestiture, the nature of theresources being extracted and the methodsused to extract them, the type and complexityof crude oil proc essed in our refining units,
the complexity of the refineries themselves,and the mix of products needed to meet local market requirements. We, therefore,developed an index that factors out thesemany variables and focuses simply on theefficiency of each type of activity, fromproduction and shipping to refining and evencorporate activities.
For each activity, we measure and compare 
a CEI number – which helps managersbenchmark their performance against similaroperations – then track overall progress by aggregating the results into a single,corporatewide index for which we set a yearly target. The CEI initially included only our North American operations but has
since been exp anded to include all of our
global operations.
1992–2001 energy usage data are Chevron only, notChevron and Texaco combined.Chevron Energy Index
1992–2004
1992 100
1993 95
1994 92
1995 91
1996 87
1997 87
1998 84
1999 82
2000 83
2001 79
2002 79
2003 78
2004 76211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 4546Accounting for GHGs in Capital Projects
Increasingly, governments are employing or evaluating policies to encourage GHGemissions reduction, including carbon taxes,cap and trade programs, voluntary reductiontargets, tax incentives and credits foremissions reduction. These policies have thepotential to affect our investments and theirexpected returns. 
The company has developed a set of
processes and tools and an accompanying
annual workshop to ensure that capitalproject teams analyze, at the earliestplanning stage, the level of GHG emissionsthat will be generated, the potential need for mitigation, and the potential costs andcredits associated with emissions. One suchtool, the Chevron Projector, is based onSANGEA™ software for tracking Chevronemissions and allows planners to calculateemissions from a future planned facility.
The company requires that all projects
costing more than $5 million conduct aninitial analysis to estimate emissions and net present value based on values for GHG emissions ranging from zero to $20 permetric ton of CO
2equivalent or actual values,where they exist. Projects more than 
$25 million must submit results from the full as sessment before they are funded. 
This helps ensure that our capital planningaccounts for the potential financial risks andopportunities posed by the development ofGHG emissions reduction policies and themarkets for carbon credits.
Managing and Verifying Our Data
During 2004, we completed an independentreview by KPMG/URS of the quality of our2002 and 2003 GHG data. 
The review included:
IAssessment of SANGEA™ software, which
we developed for estimating emissions and have since shared free of charge withothers in the energy industry.
IAssessment of our GHG emissionsinventory protocol.
ISite visits to selected locations and reviewof data management and aggregationprocesses.
The exercise, completed in August 2004,
validated the strengths of our inventorysystem and identified areas for continuingimprovement. It has given us confidence that
any GHG emissions goals can be based onsound and robust baseline data.
We are using findings from the review to
improve our overall data collection andmanagement systems. Actions includeadditional training for our business units and incorporation of a GHG review into ourOperational Excellence Management System.Our intention is to conduct additionalverification proc esses periodically to ensure
the integrity of our data and continualimprovement of our data managementsystems. Further information, including the KPMG/URS report and our inventoryprotocol, is available on our Web site atwww.chevron.com/greenhousegas/ .
Researching CO
2Sequestration
Capturing and sequestering CO2in geologic
formations is an important part of ourresponse to the climate change challenge.This approach, called CO
2sequestration, 
has the potential to mitigate CO2emissions
associated with combustion of fossil fuel resources. CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Total GHG Emissions by Sector
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent
2002 63.4
2003 63.9
2004 62.5
Upstream
Downstream
Other2002
36.5
24.3
2.62003
37.0
23.7
3.22004
35.3
24.0
3.2Total GHG Emissions by Source
Millions of metric tons of CO2 equivalent
2002 63.4
2003 63.9
2004 62.5
Combustion
Flaring and venting
Other2002
38.8
15.8
8.82003
38.9
16.2
8.82004
38.1
14.9
9.5
Emissions totals exclude our interests in Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, Dynegy Inc. and Caltex Australia Limited, entities  over which we do not have full operational control 
and which do not follow our corporate GHG inventory protocol or a compatible protocol. Due to rounding, individual figures may not sum to the totals.211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 4647We continue to participate actively in several
CO2sequestration initiatives including:
IThe CO2Capture Project, a global
collaboration of eight major energycompanies, the U.S. Department of Energy, the European Union, and Klimatek,a program of the Norwegian governmentformed to research and developtechnology to reduce GHG emissions (more information is available atwww.co2captureproject.org ).
IThe Carbon Sequestration Leadership
Forum, consisting of 17 nationalgovernments and intergovernmentalbodies formed to develop and deploy CO
2sequestration technology
(www.cslforum.org ).
IThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change Special Report on CO2Capture 
and Storage.
IThe Cooperative Research Centre forGreenhouse Gas Technologies in Australia,a joint industry-government research efforton CO
2sequestration.
IThe GEOSEQ Project, a joint venturebetween three U.S. national laboratories.
IThe Weyburn CO2Project, an initiative of
the International Energy Agency and of U.S.and Canadian governments and industry.Performance
For 2004, Chevron’s total net emissions wereapproximately 62.5 million metric tons of CO
2
equivalent. This is based on Chevron’s equityshare in busine sses and operations in which
we have financial interests and either overwhich we have operational control or whichreport GHG emissions using a compatibleprotocol. In 2004, 89 percent of CO
2-
equivalent emissions were from CO2, and
approximately 11 percent were from methanewith trace amounts of nitrous oxides.
Chevron’s emissions decreased by more 
than 1 million metric tons of CO
2equivalent 
in 2004 compared with the year before. Weachieved our 2004 corporatewide emissionsgoal of 63 million metric tons or less of CO
2-
equivalent emissions. Although there was aslight increase in emissions due to increasedrefinery throughput, this was more thanoffset by companywide energy efficiencyimprovements and a decrease in productionemissions, primarily due to divestitures.
In 2004, flaring and venting accounted for 
24 percent of CO
2-equivalent emissions,
combustion accounted for 61 percent, andother sources accounted for 15 percent. In absolute numbers, the flaring and ventingemissions of 14.9 million metric tons of CO
2equivalent in 2004 represents a 1.3 million-metric-ton decline from the flaring and ventingemissions of 16.2 million metric tons in 2003.
For 2004, we estimate that the use of our
products resulted in GHG emissions ofapproximately 377 million metric tons of CO
2
equivalent, which is approximately 1.6 percentof global emissions, based on Key WorldEnergy Statistics, published by the InternationalEnergy Agency. 
As oil fields age, more energy is typically
needed to produce the same amount of oil,resulting in more CO
2emissions. We expect
to partially offset these increases bycontinuing to improve energy efficiencythroughout the company; therefore, we are holding our preliminary corporatewideemissions goal for 2005 flat at 63 millionmetric tons or less of CO
2equivalent. 
This goal represents an overall efficiencyimprovement and a decrease in GHGemissions per barrel. 
We are also initiating work to develop a long-
term GHG emissions forecast, based on ourportfolio and business strategy. We intend to use that forecast to develop an emissionsmanagement plan that aligns with ourfourfold climate change strategy.As part of our fourfold action plan
to address concerns about climatechange, Chevron has beenpartnering with the U.S. NatureConservancy and Brazil’s Societyfor Wildlife Research to helpreverse the defor estation trend
near Antonina in Paraná, Brazil.
Total GHG Emissions by Type
Millions of metric tons of CO 2 equivalent
Direct
Indirect
Grid2002
62.8
1.5
-0.92003
62.6
2.1
-0.92004
61.8
1.6
-0.9
Total 63.4 63.9 62.5
Direct emissions are emitted by emissions sources within a facility. Indirect emissions account
for emissions associated with electricity and steam imported by Chevron, less credits foremissions associated with electricity and steam exported by Chevron. Grid credits account forthe electricity exported by certain Chevron facilities that is produced more efficiently than thatfrom the regional or national electricity grid.211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 4748CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Renewable Energy 
As part of our balanced portfolio, we aremaking targeted investments in renewableenergy projects. For several years, we havebeen experimenting with the use of renewableenergy technologies in our own operationsand making venture capital investments in innovative technologies. Central to ourstrategy is our integrated approach todeveloping and applying renewable andenergy efficiency technologies. Integratingefficiency measures with renewable energy projects is a critical step toward
making them economically c ompetitive in
today’s marketplace.
To further identify and develop opportunities
to create value for the company, in 2004Chevron launched an expanded strategy tointegrate renewable energy applications into the Chevron portfolio. Our strategy is particularly focused on investing in andadvancing wind and geothermal energyprojects. In our view, based on currenttechnological and market conditions, windand geothermal are the renewable energysources with the highest potential togenerate relatively significant energyresources and create economic value. We also are evaluating opportunities in solar energy.
As part of the strategy, we are exploring
potential opportunities to invest in renewableenergy projects that could generate carboncredits for the company. While we areprincipally focusing on projects that are tied to and provide energy for our coreoperations, we are looking more broadly at some potential opportunities that link to assets in development or future assets. We coordinate our renewable energy
activities across two groups: the EmergingEnergy group (within Chevron TechnologyVentures) and Chevron Energy Solutions(see case study on page 50). 
Since 1999, Chevron has invested
approximately $60 million in renewableenergy projects, including wind, solar andgeothermal energies. We will continue totake a case-by-case approach to fundingparticular projects but, as part of ourexpanded renewable energy strategy, weexpect to invest approximately $50 million a year on renewable energy projects in the near term. This estimate is based on the projects we are currently incubatingthrough Chevron Technology Ventures.Additionally, through Chevron EnergySolutions, we continue to develop renewableenergy projects for external clients.
Chevron also has invested nearly $550 million
since 1999 in advanced clean-energytechnologies, which include applications forhydrogen fuel processing and storage, fuelcells, and advanced batteries. We also haveinvested hundreds of millions of dollars inenergy efficiency efforts internally, and wecontinue to explore opportunities to expandour external energy efficiency businessthrough Chevron Energy Solutions.
The following are highlights of several new
investments and projects we are incubating.
Wind
In the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, we are exploring a project reusing former offshore oilplatforms to create new offshore wind farms.The potential 20- to 50-megawatt project could generate between 75 million and 
150 million kilowatt hours annually. Windpower could provide cleaner and lower-costpower for offshore Chevron productionoperations, while excess power could be soldto the grid. At the same time, we would gainvaluable experience in wind energy as a newbusiness opportunity, as a potential use forformer oil platforms and as a cost-effectiveoption for offsetting carbon dioxide emissions.
In Texas and Colorado, we are developing
proposed projects to install wind generationon or near existing Chevron oil and gasassets in order to offset a portion of theenergy purchased from the local utilities.The projects would develop up to 50megawatts of wind energy in the Midland,Texas, area and 25 to 50 megawatts of windenergy for the Rangely Creek, Colorado,operations. Here we see an opportunity to lower the production costs of ourmidcontinent operations in Midland andRangely by supplying oilfield and gasfieldpower with less expensive and moreconsistently priced renewable energy. The two operations would require anestimated investment of up to $80 million.Installation could begin as early as 2006.
These proposed wind projects are in addition
to the investment we made in late 2002 in a22.5-megawatt wind farm in the Netherlands.The $23 million project – owned 69 percentby BP and 31 percent by Chevron – is currentlyproducing energy for the companies’ jointlyowned Nerefco oil refinery near Rotterdam.Within Europe, it was the first large-scalewind project on a brownfield refinery site,and it displaces 20,000 tons of greenhousegas emissions each year.
At Chevron, we believe that meeting the world’s fast-growing energy needs requires
tapping all potential sources of energy. Our approach is guided by the view that new technologies and energy sources must be able to compete in the marketplace, and that such investments must be considered in the context of our broad energydevelopment strategy.  211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 4849Solar
At other locations, we are deployinginnovative solar technologies. For example,in 2003, Chevron Technology Venturesinvested in the installation of the first solarpower (photovoltaic) facility in California to help power oilfield operations. 
At 500 kilowatts, this six-acre facility is one
of the largest photovoltaic installations inthe United States and the largest array offlexible amorphous-silicon solar technologyin the world. Chevron Energy Solutions(CES) provided technical assistance andtraining for the project, which continues to provide us with valuable experience in the design and development of photovoltaicsystems. CES also has developed andinstalled solar energy facilities for several of its external institutional clients. 
To expand our learning and help advance
solar energy technology, Chevron hasinvested in Konarka, a Massachusetts-basedcompany dedicated to the development andcommercialization of versatile, flexible andlower-cost solar photovoltaic products forportable and distributed power needs.Geothermal
In December 2004, Chevron announcedplans to expand our Darajat geothermalpower plant in Garut, West Java, Indonesia.The project will provide clean electricity tomeet growing national and regional demand.It also will help the Indonesian governmentachieve its energy diversification goal and will contribute to the country’ssustainable development.
The $128 million expansion consists of a 
new 110-megawatt electricity-generatingunit, the third unit at Darajat. Chevronprovides the steam for the first unit andowns and operates the second.
Geothermal power is clean, renewable and
generates virtually no GHGs, as steam fromsubterranean volcanic activity is used to run turbines to generate electricity. The newgeothermal plant at Darajat will displaceelectricity from Indonesia’s electricity grid,which is sourced from fossil fuel powergeneration, coal in particular. The new unitis expected to reduce emissions by morethan half a million metric tons of CO
2each
year – about as much CO2as 100,000
automobiles emit annually.
Chevron Texaco Energy Indonesia Limited 
is working to get the project approved by the Clean Development Mechanism in order to earn certified, tradable emissionsreduction credits.
To demonstrate the safe, practical application of
hydrogen technology in a real-world setting, Chevronand partners built a hydrogen energy station at theHyundai-Kia America Technical Center in Chino,California. The station will fuel a small fleet of fuelcell demonstration vehicles.
The fumaroles and hot springs at Darajat, on the island
of Java, Indonesia, first brought geologists to the areamore than 30 years ago to explore this natural sourceof energy. Here, company production engineers Fachrul Subarkah and Fernando Pasaribu use electricalmonitoring equipment to monitor surface activity. 
Hydrogen
As energy demand continues to grow,Chevron is pursuing hydrogen as apromising next-generation fuel. In 2004,the U.S. Department of Energy selectedChevron to lead a consortium that willdemonstrate hydrogen infrastructure andfuel cell vehicles. Over a five-year period,the consortium will build up to six hydrogenenergy service stations, with fuelingfacilities for small fleets of fuel cell vehicles
and capacity to generate high-qualityelectric power from stationary fuel cells. 
In early 2005, we reached a key milestone
with the unveiling of the first Chevronhydrogen energy station in Chino, California.We also are building a hydrogen energystation in Oakland, California, that willproduce hydrogen fuel for fuel cell busesand future fleets of light-duty vehicles. This station is scheduled for completion in late 2005.
Chevron is involved in numerous other
hydrogen infrastructure projects. WithHyundai-Kia America and UTC Fuel Cells,we are a member of the California Fuel CellPartnership, which operates a hydrogendemonstration station in Sacramento,California. We also broke ground in early2005 on Florida’s first hydrogen energystation, which will provide fuel for shuttlebuses at Orlando International Airport.211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 4950CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Chevron Energy Solutions
In addition to focusing on improving energyefficiency in our own operations, Chevron is helping public institutions and otherbusine sses bec ome more efficient.
Chevron Energy Solutions (CES), a Chevron
subsidiary, is a thriving, $200 millioncompany with nearly 300 employees in2004. CES provides government, education,and other institutions and busine sses 
with projects that conserve energy, improve facilities, reduce emissions andensure reliable, high-quality power forcritical operations.
CES engineers and installs comprehensive
upgrades, which include renewable andother alternative energy technologies. These upgrades typically result in more thanenough verifiable energy savings to pay forthemselves, enabling public-sector clients tofinance them with little or no up-front costsand more benefit to taxpayers.
For example, in 2004, CES was awarded
contracts from the U.S. Department ofDefense and the U.S. Department of Energy to engineer and install projects at three military installations. CES foundfacility improvements expected to save U.S. taxpayers more than $150 million andreduce greenhouse gas emissions by about1.4 million metric tons over the 18-year termof the contracts.
CES has been helping the U.S. Postal Service
(USPS) optimize efficiency and conserveenergy resources in Northern California. In 2004, CES completed improvements atthe USPS’s West Sacramento Processing and Distribution Center, which included the nation’s largest nonmilitary federal solar power (photovoltaic) installation. The improvements are expected to reducethe facility’s annual power consumption by more than 33 percent, or about 5.5 million kilowatt hours per year, and will lower natural gas use by about 43,000 therms per year. Together, these reductions would translate
to avoided emissions of about 3,900 tons ofcarbon dioxide (CO
2) annually, the equivalent
of planting 1,100 acres (445 hectares) of trees.
In 2004, the USPS announced that CES
would complete major energy efficiencyupgrades and install a hybrid renewablepower plant – including a fuel cell and twosolar electric technologies – at the USPS’slargest processing and distribution facilitiesin San Francisco. The improvements areexpected to lower total annual electricitypurchases by $1.2 million or 10 millionkilowatt hours – a 46 percent reduction. In addition, the energy efficiency upgradeswill reduce the facilities’ heating needs. In total, these improvements translate intoavoided emissions of about 6,600 tons ofCO
2annually, the equivalent of planting
about 1,860 acres (753 hectares) of trees.
CES also has worked with the city of
Richmond, California, to install energyupgrades, including adding solar electricpanels to the city’s public library. CES’svarious improvements are expected to savethe city more than $9.5 million over the nexttwo decades.
In 2004, CES saved its customers more than
142 million kilowatt hours of electricity and921 million cubic feet of natural gas. Thisequates to more than 168,000 metric tons of total CO
2-equivalent emissions avoided.
The success of CES’s business led consultingfirm Ernst & Young to name CES PresidentJim Davis as Northern California Entrepreneurof the Year for Social Responsibility in 2004.
As a strategic resource within the company,
CES also helps other Chevron units meettheir business goals by improving theefficiency and reliability of their operations.Keith Parker, Chevron Energy Solutions (CES) project engineer, monitors heating
and hot-water distribution equipment at the U.S. Army depot in Corpus Christi,Texas. The depot is one of several U.S. military bases that have chosen CES toupgrade their facilities. As a result of its contract with CES, the depot in 2004received the Secretary of the Army Energy and Water Management Award.
211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 5051Chevron recognizes that even as we work 
on global issues such as greenhouse gasreduction and biodiversity management,equally important are local and regional air emissions from our operations. Like allenergy companies, Chevron’s operationsproduce air emissions such as sulfur oxides(SO
x), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and volatile
organic compounds (VOCs). Part of being a good neighbor is to continue efforts tomeasure and minimize these emissions.
While we have long tracked these emissions
locally, for 2004 we are able to report totalcorporate emissions of VOCs, along with total emissions of NO
xand SOx. VOCs derive
primarily from flaring and venting, fugitiveleaks from equipment (such as valves, pumpsand compr essors), and flashing gas. NO
xand
SOxoccur during combustion.2004 Performance
We estimate all emissions using methodsdeveloped by the U.S. EnvironmentalProtection Agency, the American PetroleumInstitute and other sources. We estimate our global 2004 emissions of NO
xto be
approximately 114 thousand metric tons,nearly 10 percent less than in 2003. Thisdecrease in estimated emissions can beprimarily attributed to asset divesture. In 2004, SO
xemissions were approximately 
133 thousand metric tons, a more than 10 percent reduction over 2003. Theseemissions fell primarily due to continued flare reduction. In 2004, the first yearin which we have corporatewide data,VOC emissions were estimated to beapproximately 427 thousand metric tons.
Within the U.S. refining operations in 2004,
there was a slight reduction in emissions ofVOCs and NO
x. On a normalized, per-barrel-of-crude-refined basis, emissions of both
stayed r oughly flat from 2003 to 2004.
Emissions levels, both total and normalized,of SO
xincreased compared with 2003 and
reflect refinements in emission estimates and measurements.
In 2004, one of our key air emissions
achievements was in our Tengizchevroil (TCO)joint venture in Kazakhstan, which achievedits lowest total air emissions levels in the pasteight years, despite its production reachingthe highest recorded levels. Furthermore,TCO achieved these reductions even thoughthe number of pollutants required to betracked and reported increased from 37 in1997 to 52 today. These include NO
x, SOx
and VOCs. TCO has plans to invest more than$300 million in upgraded technology that isexpected to achieve an additional 35 percentreduction in emissions, resulting in total airemissions by 2007 of 2.75 kilograms per tonof oil produced.AIR EMISSIONS
Lichen, highly sensitive to air
pollution, thrives on trees in anarea of mature woodland closeto the perimeter of Chevron’sPembroke Refinery in Wales.
100,046
13,109
12,475
111,050
29,010Global Air Emissions
Metric tons
Upstream        2003 
NOx Upstream 2004 89,764
Downstream   2003 
                       2004 13,877
Upstream        2003 
                        2004 96,809
Downstream   2003 
                        2004 
Upstream       2004 
                        26,091
Downstream 2004 
                      10,49911,90710,656
402,362
24,330
80Other              2003 
                      2004
Other       2003 
                        2004
Other            2004 
                       NOx 
SOx 
VOCs
1 2003 number r estated to i nclude marine transport emissions.
2Prior to 2004, VOC emissions were not tracked at the corporate level.211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 5152AIR EMISSIONS
Cleaner Fuels
Chevron looks for opportunities to reduceair emissions from the use of our productsand to develop innovative technologies toproduce cleaner fuels cost-effectively. Morethan 40 percent of refineries around theworld use our proprietary hydroprocessingtechnology that upgrades hydrocarbons and provides deep removal of sulfur,nitrogen and metals. The result is cleaner-than-ever hydrocarbon fuels, more cost-efficient energy supplies and a shrinkingenvironmental footprint.
One example is in Agra, India, near the 
Taj Mahal – a famous, world heritagemonument suffering from decay. In recentyears, sulfur-containing emissions fromindustries around the monument and nearby vehicle emissions have been pitting and
yellowing the face of this pearl-whitemonument. The government of Indiainstituted a series of measures to mitigatethese damages, including the production of a clean, lower-sulfur fuel for the regionalmarket. Chevron was the government’spartner of choice. We licensed ourISOCRACKING® hydroprocessing technologyto Indian Oil Corporation for its Mathurarefinery, near the Taj Mahal, and the refinerybegan producing ultraclean diesel in 2000.
In Australia, Chevron is investing $295 million
to reduce air pollution from vehicles. The company is a 50 percent joint-venturepartner in two refineries, Kurnell and Lytton,which are being upgraded to reduce sulfurcontent in diesel fuel and benzene in gasoline.The Kurnell and Lytton refineries produce
transport fuel to meet the needs of about60 percent of New South Wales and 55 percent of Queensland.
In addition, Chevron® gasoline has been
used by leading U.S. automakers for the past 30 years to help them demonstratecompliance with the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency’s (EPA) stringent 50,000-mile and new 100,000-mileemissions durability r equirements. In 2004,
Chevron with Techron® gasoline was the 
first in the United States to meet the new“TOP TIER” specifications – an even morestringent, voluntary standard jointlydeveloped by General Motors, Honda, Toyotaand BMW for reducing fuel-related deposits. 
In 2004, Chevron-branded fuel was the
first in the United States and Canada to be certified by four of the world’s top automakers as meeting “TOP TIER”criteria for gasoline detergency levels. All grades of Chevron met the standards years before these voluntaryspecifications – more stringent than U.S. Environmental Protection Agencystandards – were set.211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 5253Product Stewardship
Chevron seeks to manage the environmental,health and safety impacts of our productsthroughout their life cycle. This concept is known as “product stewardship” and isformally integrated into our OperationalExcellence Management System (OEMS). Aspart of OEMS, business units are required toimplement proc esses and systems to identify,
minimize, manage and communicate potentialrisks throughout the product life cycle.
We also work to educate customers and the
public on safe and responsible handling ofour products. In 2004, Chevron completeddeployment of a Web-based global system for managing material safety data sheets(MSDSs) and other health, environment andsafety information. These documents provideinformation on safe handling procedures for each of Chevron’s products. The systemcurrently stores more than 150,000 MSDSs.We also have a 24-hour-a-day global hotlinethat provides public access to on-calltechnical specialists who can answerquestions about our products .Gas-to-Liquids – a Cleaner-Burning Fuel
Gas-to-liquids (GTL) fuel is a clean, high-performance fuel derived from natural gas.We believe GTL fuel offers great potentialboth to improve engine performance and toreduce environmental impacts. This is whywe are taking action to bring this importantproduct to market.
In 2000, Chevron established Sasol Chevron,
a 50-50 joint venture with Sasol Limited, aglobal energy company headquartered inJohannesburg, South Africa, to produce gas-to-liquids (GTL) products using the SasolSlurry Phase Distillate process (Sasol SPD™).The GTL process creates clean, high–performance products – primarily GTL dieseland GTL naphtha – from natural gas. GTLdiesel is a significantly higher-quality fuelthan diesel derived from crude oil and ischaracterized by low sulfur and othercleaner-burning properties. The performancebenefits include improved cold-startproperties, reduced noise, more-efficient
and cleaner-burning fuel, and a substantialreduction in exhaust emissions.
Qatar Petroleum and Sasol Chevron
announced plans in early March 2004 toevaluate the expansion of the ORYX GTLplant in Qatar (owned by Qatar Petroleumand Sasol) from 34,000 barrels per day to100,000 barrels per day. Sasol Chevron alsois providing management, operating andtechnical services in Nigeria for EscravosGas-To-Liquids, a partnership betweenChevron Nigeria Limited and the NigerianNational Petroleum Corporation. Finally,Sasol Chevron is actively evaluating thepossibilities of GTL production in Australia.
Sasol Chevron’s involvement with
commercial-scale GTL projects on threecontinents gives it the most global approachof any GTL producer, giving it a premierposition in this new industry.
Artist’s rendering of the future Escravos
gas-to-liquids plant, a project of ChevronNigeria Limited and the Nigerian NationalPetroleum Corporation. Chevron’s jointventure Sasol Chevron is providingmanagerial, operating and technicalservices. When operational, the project will help reduce flaring from our operationsand will further the viable use of Nigeria’svast natural gas resources.
U.S. Refining Emissions
1999Metric tons
15,000
10,000
5,000
02004 2003 2002 2001 2000
1999
11,955 NOx2000
11,7332001
11,3582002
8,2132003
7,9902004
7, 303
10,745 SOx 12,411 11,295 11,356 10,501 11,637
10,105 VOCs 9,326 7,793 8,535 8,555 7,153U.S. Refining Emissions
1999Metric tons per million b arrels pr ocessed
40
30
20
10
02004 2003 2002 2001 2000
1999
35 NOx2000
352001
332002
242003
242004
23
32 SOx 37 32 33 31 36
30 VOCs 28 22 25 25 22
The 2003 data contain 2002 data for the Hawaii Refinery and 2002 VOC data for the Pascagoula Refinery.211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 5354When it comes to oil and chemical spills, 
our first priority is prevention. Through a combination of strategic investments and building the knowledge base of ouremployees, contractors and partners, wehave made significant progr ess. In 2002, 
we set an ambitious goal of achieving a 20 percent reduction in oil spill volume ineach of the subsequent three years and, in 2004, achieved our goal one year early.
In 2004, we spilled 15,514 barrels of oil, which
is 42 percent less than in 2003. This figurerepresents fewer than ten barrels spilled forevery million barrels proc essed. During the
year, we had a total of 986 spills, representinga 14 percent reduction in the number of spillscompared with 2003. The largest incidentwas due to Hurricane Ivan, which hit the U.S.Gulf Coast and caused a spill of 3,148 barrelsof crude oil and 124 barrels of gasoline andlube oil.Chemical spills encompass accidental releases
of all nonpetroleum materials, which includedrilling fluids, contaminated water and otherchemicals, such as those used as catalysts.Chevron had 43 chemical spills in 2004, with a total volume of 450,000 kilograms ofspilled chemicals, less volume than in 2003. A total of 87,000 kilograms of chemicalswere recovered, and the remaining chemicalsin the soil were contained and disposed ofproperly. The largest of these was a spill of 273,000 kilograms of water that had analkaline strength of 1.5 percent, which leakedthrough a corroded tank bottom to the soil below. 
In shipping, Chevron’s environmental
performance continues to lead the industry,based on benchmarking data from largecompetitors that operate tanker fleets. In 2004,Chevron’s operated fleet did not experience a single spill, the second year in a row thecompany has achieved a spill-free record.We have achieved this track record by
focusing first on ship design. We operate afleet of 23 vessels, including one liquefiednatural gas and two liquefied petroleum gascarriers. In 1993, in compliance with the U.S.Oil Pollution Act, we commenced a plan toreplace all single-hull tankers with double-hulls. The regulatory deadline for retirementof single-hulls is 2010. As of the close of2004, Chevron owned only one single-hullvessel in the fleet. That v essel will be retired
in advance of the deadline. When charteringvessels in 2004, we used double-hulls 80 percent of the time, whereas the currentworld tanker fleet used double-hulls 60 percent of the time.
Knowledge and training are equally important.
Our third annual Oil Spill Prevention Forumwas attended by 75 operations managers,maintenance planners, field foremen,scientists, construction superintendents and engineers from around the world, and it focused on field practices, procedures and the improved implementation of oil spillprevention programs.
If accidents do occur, our first line of defense
is secondary containment, which meansberms are built around tanks or facilities sothat spills can be contained locally. Oil spillresponse is also an important performancecomponent. In 2004, we re covered 64 percent
of all oil spilled – 9,905 barrels re covered 
out of 15,514 barrels spilled, a significantimprovement compared with 2003.SPILLS
Chevron has a strong track record in oil spill prevention and response, a reflection of our
commitment to this key issue. During the period 1999 to 2004, we reduced the number ofoil spills by nearly 55 percent and the volume of spills by more than 90 percent.
Petroleum Spills
1999
200,000
150,000
100,000
50,000
02004 2003 2002 2001 2000
1999
164,686Volume of  
spills (barrels)2000
34,4602001
54,8342002
54,6962003
26,5402004
15,514
-Volume 
recovered  (barrels)
-48,348 27,805 10,659 9,905
2,169Number 
of spills 1,553 1,428 1,502 1,145 986
Prior to 2001, volume recovered was not tracked at the corporate level. Data include spills to
secondary containment.211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 5455The performance of our shipping
company continues to lead theindustry. In 2004, our operatedtanker fleet did not experience asingle spill, the second straight yearwe have achieved a spill-free record.Below The new Chevron-operated
Northwest Swan liquefied natural gas
tanker moves its first shipment out ofport at Karratha, Australia. 
Prevention First in New Mexico, 
United StatesOur spill reduction teams working insoutheastern New Mexico demonstrate the progress that is possible by combiningstrategic investments with employeetraining. In 1999, the teams began meetingevery month to discuss spills and nearmisses in New Mexico and in other Chevronoperating areas so that they might learn,develop and adopt spill prevention bestpractices. The teams next invested inrebuilding more than 100 production
facilities (from 1999 to 2004), reconditioningalmost 600 wellheads and replacing othercritical equipment such as flow lines – thepipelines that begin at well sites.
The results have been dramatic. In 1999,
New Mexico operations spilled 123 barrels of oil per million barrels produced. By 2003,that number had dropped to just 9 barrels ofoil spilled per million barrels produced, andin 2004, spills decreased again with only 6.6 barrels spilled per million barrels
produced. The New Mexico spill preventionteams received the 2004 EnvironmentalMerit Award from the New Mexico Energy, Minerals and Natural ResourcesDepartment’s Oil Conservation Division.
We will continue to share what we have
learned. Our New Mexico division created a set of spill prevention standard operatingprocedures that will soon be adopted byChevron’s Mid-Continent business unit.
211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 5556When crude oil is brought to the earth’s
surface, gas associated with such oil extractionusually comes to the surface as well. If oil is produced in areas of the world that lackgas infrastructure or a nearby gas market,this associated gas is often released into the atmosphere ignited (flared) or unignited(vented). Reducing flaring and ventingconserves a finite resource, reducesgreenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, supportsthe growth of domestic gas markets inemerging economies, and reduces barriers to gas market access elsewhere. At the same time, technological, infrastructure andmarket challenges affect the pace at whichflaring can be reduced or eliminated.
Chevron is pursuing a range of activities to
eliminate or reduce venting and flaring and iscommitted to achieving our long-term visionof conducting operations without continuousgas flaring and venting. Increased demandoffers business opportunities to commercializenatural gas. At the same time, reducing flaringand venting of associated gas provides amajor opportunity to reduce GHG emissions.
Reducing Flaring at Chevron
Flaring currently accounts for 24 percent of our total GHG emissions (see page 46). As part of our effort to reduce or eliminateflaring, we are focusing on technologicalinnovations and creating stronger marketsfor natural gas products. In the United States,continuous flaring accounted for fewer than 1 percent of total upstream emissions in2004, in part due to regulatory requirementsand good access to gas markets. Further, wecontinue to partner in the U.S. EnvironmentalProtection Agency’s Natural Gas Star Program,in which we have been recognized in prioryears for our greenhouse gas reductionefforts. The program also helps us find waysto cost-effectively reduce the occurrence ofnonroutine flaring and venting.
In our non-U.S. operations, we select and
invest in projects with the maximum potentialfor capturing natural gas and reducingflaring. Market access is critical to thesolution for our operations where pipelinesare less available to move natural gas intoproductive use. In Nigeria, we reached a keymilestone in 2004 with a final commitment to begin construction on the West African Gas Pipeline. A detailed final project 
design will be developed prior to pipelineconstruction, and startup is expected inDecember 2006. This $590 million projectwill reduce flaring by as much as 80 millionmetric tons of CO
2equivalent over a 20-year
life of the project while it delivers the gas tocustomers in Benin, Ghana and Togo.
Flaring and Venting Standard for Our
Upstream OperationsChevron participates as a steering committeemember of the World Bank’s Global Gas FlaringReduction Public-Private Partnership,designed to help address barriers to reducingflares such as uncertainty about tax andregulatory issues and clarity on carbon creditsfor flare-reduction projects. In 2004, thepartnership released a new Global Gas Ventingand Flaring Reduction Voluntary Standard. 
Chevron is conducting a comprehensive
evaluation of all major flares and ventsources across our international upstreamoperations, a critical first step in developingan associated-gas recovery plan asrecommended in the World Bank’s voluntarystandard. In 2005, the company finalized our own flaring and venting standard forinternational upstream operations.FLARING
During construction, a giant crane at a shipyard in Kure, Japan, lifted into
place what are now the living quarters at the Sanha Condensate Complex,offshore Angola. The Sanha Condensate Project is key in Chevron’s strategyfor achieving our goal to eliminate routine flaring from our Angola operations. 
Sanha Condensate Project
The Sanha Condensate Project is key inChevron’s strategy for achieving our goalto eliminate routine flaring from our Angolaoperations. It also is one of the mosttechnically challenging and complex capitalprojects Chevron has ever undertaken. The floating production, storage andoffloading vessel is a first-of-its-kindstructure to proc ess, store and offload
liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) coming outof the wells. The structure produces butaneand propane that can be sent directly tomarkets. Total Chevron investment in theproject is $1.9 billion.
In addition to adding production, it will
reduce flaring. After being stripped of high-value condensate and LPG, the drygas – 500 million cubic feet per day – willbe reinjected into the Sanha reservoir. This reinjection will reduce routine flaringin Block 0 by more than 50 percent, withan associated reduction in greenhousegases of 2.2 million tons per year.211243A4  10/8/05  12:13 pm  Page 5657Water
Availability of and access to fresh water is an environmental challenge for communitiesand industries. Chevron’s challenge is to use water efficiently – especially where it is scarce – and protect its quality for otherusers. Fresh water or sea water are majorinputs to almost every stage of our operations,in particular during upstream oil and gasexploration and production, as well as duringthe downstream refining process for coolingand steam generation. Additionally, ouroperations generate wastewater that must betreated and discharged, including “producedwater” that is brought to the surface when oil and gas are extracted.
Conservation and Mitigation
Our Operational Excellence ManagementSystem requires business units to evaluatetheir use of and impact on all natural resourcesand to identify and implement conservationopportunities. In arid environments, such asCalifornia’s Kern River region, where freshwater is limited, the company’s upstreamoperations provide appropriately treateddischarged water to a local utility foragricultural irrigation. Also in California, our Richmond and El Segundo refineries use
“reclaimed water,” which is treated domesticsewage, to supplement fresh water forcooling in the manufacturing proc ess.
In our new deepwater production facilities in
Angola and Nigeria, we are reusing producedwater through reinjection to improve thevolume of oil produced and minimizeenvironmental impact. Additionally, tocontinue to minimize the impact of wastewaterdischarge, our offshore upstream operationsare implementing new technologies orprocesses for wastewater rei njection, water-
based drilling fluids, cleaning secondarydrilled cuttings, and better separation ofoil and water to reduce the oil contentof discharged water.
To date, Chevron has not tracked water 
use or discharges to water corporatewide. In 2005, we will evaluate consistent internalwater metrics, with the goal to begin collectingbaseline data in 2006. Additionally, ourinternational upstream operating companyis continuing to develop proc esses and
standards for produced-water management.Waste
Our business generates solid and hazardouswastes, such as drill cuttings, used catalystsand general office waste. Our OperationalExcellence Management System requiresbusiness units to develop waste managementplans and continually improve proc esses 
to minimize pollution and waste. Our basicapproach encompasses a hierarchy ofactions, which include source reduction,recycling, treatment and safe disposal.
For existing facilities, we use control
technologies at all phases of production tominimize risks from wastes. As we design newfacilities, we integrate pollution prevention andwaste minimization measures so that theygenerate fewer and less hazardous wastes.
To date, Chevron has not tracked waste
volumes or types corporatewide. In 2005, we will evaluate consistent internal wastemetrics, with the goal to begin collectingbaseline data in 2006. In addition, as part of our increased focus on performancestandardization, our international upstreamoperating company is developing an onshorewaste management standard.WATER AND WASTE
Operator James Farrell
samples water frombioreactor ponds at theRichmond, California, refinery.211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 57In 2004, Chevron celebrated the 50th anniversary of our annual Conservation Awards
Program, originally founded by the late Ed Zern, a notable sportsman, humorist, authorand columnist for Field and Stream magazine. Chevron has proudly underwritten the
program for nearly two decades, making it North America’s oldest privately sponsoredconservation award. At right is scientist Terri Roth – a 2004 award winner – with Emi,the first Sumatran rhinoceros in 112 years to produce a calf in captivity, thanks to Roth’sgroundbreaking work in establishing a succ essful captive-breeding protocol at the
Cincinnati Zoo, Ohio, United States.   
58Chevron works to protect sensitive ecological
habitats and species around our operationsby focusing on biodiversity conservation.Biodiversity covers the diversity of life onearth, including species, genes, ecosystemsor habitats, and the ecological proc esses 
that support them. Oil and gas operationsmay affect biodiversity through both directimpacts (such as physical footprints) andsecondary impacts (such as enabling accessto previously inaccessible areas). We viewbiodiversity protection as having importantenvironmental value while providingsignificant social and economic benefits,particularly for local communities.
Integrating Biodiversity Into Core Operations
Currently at the field level, biodiversity isprimarily managed on a project-specific andoperation-specific basis. We also are takingsteps to encourage a more consistentapproach across the company, includingcontinuing to further incorporate biodiversityinto our corporatewide Operational ExcellenceManagement System. For example, ourinternational upstream operating company is incorporating biodiversity considerationsinto its new environmental, social and health impact as sessment process for 
capital projects. 
We have devoted particular attention 
to expanding our understanding of theopportunities and challenges involved inoperating in protected areas. The first phaseof this effort is a project to identify andgather more comprehensive informationabout the company’s exploration andproduction operations around the globe inlegally designated protected areas, includingthose in World Conservation Union categoriesI–IV. With this information, we will be able tobetter assess the implications of operating 
in protected areas at the earliest stages ofproject planning and implement appropriatemitigation measures.
Support for Local Biodiversity
Chevron’s operations in Venezuelademonstrate how opportunities forbiodiversity conservation can emerge in the context of ongoing oilfield operations. 
We operate Campo Boscán, an approximately115,000-barrel-per-day field in westernVenezuela. Although local land use isprimarily agricultural, we recognized thearea as being important habitat for migratorybirds. Although not required by regulations,the local business unit hired Fundación LaSalle, a well-known Venezuelan researchinstitute that has partnered with Chevronelsewhere, to conduct a biological survey ofthe field.
One of the first of its kind in the Lake
Maracaibo Basin, the study found that portionsof the 247-square-mile (640-sq-km) oil fieldsupport valuable habitat, including relicttropical dry forests, gallery forests, wetlands,and a large number of plant and animalspecies. Many of these species live only in the Lake Maracaibo region. The study resultswill be shared with the Venezuelan scientificcommunity and used by our local businessunit to develop a biodiversity action plan forthe field.
Our refinery in Pembroke, Wales, is working
with the Countryside Council for Wales torestore soil. This project, at Trehill Farm near Marloes, will restore intensively farmedagricultural land to its original state of mildlyacidic heathland. The project’s challenge was to find a way to lower the pH of the soilto allow plants such as heathers to survive.Acidifying the soil by conventional means was prohibitively expensive, but Chevron was able to provide sulfur from our refineryoperations to lower the soil’s pH. The projectwon the first Wales Biodiversity Award,presented in 2004.
In Angola, we undertake counts of olive ridley
turtles nesting at our Malongo operations.The species is listed as endangered underinternational treaty and is subject toprotection under international law. The oliveridley breeds every year and always returnsto the same nesting beaches near ouroperations between November and January.We use a variety of measures to preventdisturbance to the turtles, and the Chevronvolunteer effort to perform annual counts
makes an important contribution to internationalresearch databases for these turtles.
We also have partnered with other energy
companies, the U.S. Minerals ManagementService, U.S. Navy, National ScienceFoundation, and International Association ofGeophysical Contractors to support multiyearstudies on the behavior of sperm whales in theU.S. Gulf of Mexico in order to increase ourknowledge of whether the whales aredisturbed by noise from industrial activity.The research uses selective tagging of whales to track their distribution patternsand short-term behavior when they are closeto potential disturbances.
Partnerships
We participate in the Energy and BiodiversityInitiative (EBI), a collaborative project begunin 2001 with industry and conservationorganizations. Drawing on shared bestpractices, the partners have created a set of practical guidelines and tools to minimizeimpacts to biodiversity and maximizecontributions to local ecosystems inconnection with oil and gas development. We are planning to test some of EBI’s toolsand guidelines in several major projectsunder development, such as our Angolaliquefied natural gas project.
We are an active participant in energy
industry efforts on biodiversity, including the Joint Biodiversity Working Group of the International Petroleum IndustryEnvironmental Conservation Association andthe International Association of Oil and GasProducers. Key efforts in this regard areencouraging broader industry testing and use of EBI tools and guidelines, and holdingworkshops in a number of regions to buildrelationships with key stakeholders and sharebest practices on biodiversity conservation.For example, partners – which includeChevron – in the Angola liquefied naturalgas project are planning to host one of theseregional workshops for the central andwestern Africa regions in late 2005.
BIODIVERSITY211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 58Environmental, Health and Safety Fines and Settlements
1999 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
0.94Total paid
(US$ million) 1.44 0.95 4.28 4.69 6.33
792 Total number 519 388 278 470 469
59Environmental Expenditures
Using definitions and guidelines establishedby the American Petroleum Institute, Chevronestimated our worldwide environmentalspending in 2004 at approximately $1.1 billionfor its consolidated companies. Included inthese expenditures were $285 million ofenvironmental capital expenditures andapproximately $810 million of costs associatedwith the prevention, control, abatement orelimination of hazardous substances andpollutants from operating, closed or divestedsites, and with the abandonment andrestoration of sites.
Fines and Settlements
At times in 2004, some of our facilities maynot have met all government environmental,health and safety requirements, resulting infines and penalties. We remain committed toimproving and learning from these instances.Environmental, health and safety fines and
settlements rose from nearly $5 million in2003 to more than $6.3 million in 2004. The most significant expense in 2004 was$3.74 million, which related to multiple air exceedances in our joint venture inKazakhstan due to acid and sour gas flaring
fees. Two wastewater discharge fines, also inKazakhstan, totaled $1.78 million in 2004.
The number of such settlements remained
nearly constant – 470 in 2003 versus 469 in2004. Health and safety settlements accountedfor 379 of the total, representing nearly$80,000, while the remaining 90 fines andsettlements were for environmental issues.
Environmental Litigation
Chevron remains the subject of litigation inEcuador stemming from the involvement of a subsidiary in an oil producing consortiumfrom 1964 to 1992. The lawsuit, which was
filed in 2003, alleges environmental damage, and is now in a phase in which theEcuadorian court is inspecting up to 122 oilsites. The company is vigorously challengingthe lawsuit on both scientific and legalgrounds. Because Texaco PetroleumCompany conducted an effective remediationprogram approved by the government ofEcuador and was fully released from anyfurther claims by the government, we havemet all our obligations. Chevron makesconsiderable effort to communicate aboutthe case, including maintaining a regularlyupdated Web site in English and Spanish atwww.texaco.com/ecuador .
ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES, FINES AND LITIGATION211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 5960As part of our commitment to protect people
and the environment, we manage potentialrisks related to our products and operationsthroughout their life cycles, from design and construction to operation anddecommissioning. For new projects, we seekto continually improve our proc esses and
operations to minimize pollution and wasteand prevent environmental problems beforethey occur. We assess and manage potential
environmental liabilities prior to any propertytransaction. Finally, where releases to land orgroundwater occur, we expect our busine sses
to evaluate the potential risks and mitigatethem through site cleanups.
To manage and strengthen our remediation
and decommissioning activities, we createdChevron Environmental ManagementCompany to improve the quality ofremediation activities and speed up theircompletion while reducing the costs andenvironmental risks. The company focusesprimarily on U.S.-based sites but also workswith Chevron business units worldwide toshare lessons learned and innovativeapproaches to cleanups, decommissioningand the prevention of future liabilities.
Managing Cleanups
As of the end of 2004, Chevron was cleaningup more than 2,200 sites in the United States,including current or former service stations,refineries, oil and gas fields and chemicalfacilities. These cleanup activities included210 sites at which Chevron has beenidentified as the potentially responsible partyor otherwise by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or other regulatory
agencies under the federal Superfund law or analogous state laws. Chevron has spentmore than $3.5 billion on such cleanups since1980, often working in partnership with othercompanies or in voluntary cooperation withregulatory agencies. Chevron does not collectcorporatewide data on numbers or costs ofsite cleanups worldwide.
In 2004, we completed 204 service station
cleanups in the United States, for a total of 1,353 such cleanups since 1999. In ourinternational marketing operations, we are inthe process of evaluating and standardizingthe management of underground storagetank systems for storage of gasoline at fuelstations. This evaluation effort covers 10,000systems in 73 countries.
In our downstream business, for example, 
we have worked with the Napa County FloodControl and Water Conservation District inCalifornia to remove former terminal facilitiesand clean up sites along the Napa River toenhance flood control and restore the area tonatural river marsh and flood plain. In 2004,the Wildlife Habitat Council again recognizedChevron for outstanding work associatedwith habitat restoration, wetland creation andcommunity outreach.
Our upstream operations have conducted
cleanups to address oil leaks and otherissues. For example, in March 2004, Cannery Hamilton Properties, LLC (CHP), a company 50 percent-owned by Chevronand 50 percent by ConocoPhillips, was one of the first responders to an oil release from
an abandoned oil well in Huntington Beach,California. Despite the fact that CHP ownedonly surface rights, not underground oil rights,CHP cleaned up the well production area andremoved aboveground storage tanks; steamcleaned all surrounding streets, sidewalks andhouses; provided lawn remediation and pooland car cleaning; undertook environmentalair quality monitoring; and paid for damageclaims while local officials worked to locatethe well’s owner. CHP mobilized more than 90people from Chevron, ConocoPhillips and theircontractors, many of whom were from outsideCalifornia. CHP, Chevron and ConocoPhillipsreceived letters of appreciation andcommendation from the mayor and from the fire chief of the city of Huntington Beach,as well as recognition from the variousregulatory agencies involved.
In another upstream project, Chevron’s
operations in Russia and the Caspian PipelineConsortium (in which Chevron has a 15 percentinterest) developed a project with Russianscientists and regulators to test and evaluatemethods for using plants to clean upcontaminated soils. This “in-situ bio/phytoremediation” method can be moreenvironmentally sound than removing soil for treatment or disposal. Chevron offeredour expertise, established test facilities andtrained more than 20 Russian regulators. TheU.S. Department of Energy jointly funded andconducted the program under its Initiativesfor Pollution Prevention, a program aimed atcreating long-term nonmilitary employmentfor former weapons researchers.
DECOMMISSIONING AND REMEDIATION
The interests of big busine sses, envir onmentalists and society as a whole coincide more
often than you might guess. The case of Chevron Niugini illustrates how it is possible for an oil company to operate in a way that delivers environmental benefits to an area ofoperations and to the people there. I discovered to my astonishment that these [wildlife]species are much more numerous inside the Chevron area than anywhere else that I havevisited on the island of New Guinea except for a few remote uninhabited areas. The Kutubuoil field functions as by far the largest and most rigorously controlled national park in Papua New Guinea. 
From Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed , by Pulitzer Prize–winning author and ecologist 
Jared Diamond (New York: Viking Books, 2005). In 2003, Chevron Corporation sold its interests in Papua New Guinea.“
”211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 6061Remediation and Redevelopment in the
United StatesWhen we cease operations at one of ourfacilities, it often means just the beginningof a long process to thoroughly remediatethe site and, when possible, redevelop it forits next use. 
In 1994, Chevron initiated a program for 
the remediation and redevelopment of a 228-acre refinery site in Toledo, Ohio. A decade later, after a succ essful public-
private partnership that helped protect the environment and benefited the localcommunity, we received final approval fromthe Ohio Environmental Protection Agency(OEPA) of the remediation work there in2004. In 2005, we sold a parcel to its nextowners and are actively marketing the restfor industrial reuse.
Remediation activities included stabilizing
affected soils and sludges, consolidatingaffected soils within a 40-acre area of theexisting contamination, installing a slurry
wall and groundwater treatment system toremediate affected groundwater, and placingan earthen cap on affected soils within theconsolidation area.  
Chevron worked closely with the OEPA in
the development of the rules package andrisk-based cleanup standards that wereincorporated into the agency’s VoluntaryAction Program. The program was designedto facilitate the remediation and reuse ofindustrial sites. Along with working closelywith regulators throughout the proc ess, we
also engaged the local community in orderto keep them informed and bring new jobsto the area.
OEPA has used the success of the Toledo
Refinery remediation as a model for itsVoluntary Action Program. In addition, the governor selected the site to kick off a State of Ohio bond program for industrial-site redevelopment.
In Cincinnati, Ohio, United States, a
natural wetland flourishes where arefinery once stood, following a Chevronland restoration program commended by the U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency. Deer and other wildlife quicklymade the site their home.
Decommissioning
In our upstream operations, we close oil and gas wells that are no longer productive,dismantle surface equipment and pipelines,and remove offshore platforms at the end of their service life. In the United States, we removed 18 platforms in 2004, all ofwhich were in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Whereenvironmental restoration is needed, it is part of our closure projects.
For example, in 2005, we will complete our
restoration of the McKittrick Mine. During the early 1980s, Getty Oil Company (nowowned by Chevron) used diatomaceous earthnear the town of McKittrick, in Kern County,California, for test mining and extraction of crude oil. To restore the mine, Chevronworked to return the land to approximatelythe original topography, re-establish drainagepatterns, and plant native grasses and shrubsover the affected areas. As a result, the minedland will be suitable for grazing livestock.
Our downstream operations occasionally
close facilities. For example, in Panama in2004, we prepared to close a refinery andreopen the facility as a marketing terminal.One of the closure requirements was toconduct an as sessment of changes to the
site’s ecosystem during refinery operation,focusing on its ecologically importantmangrove wetland habitat. However, norequirement to establish an ecologicalbaseline existed when the refinery was built.Chevron Energy Technology Company andChevron Environmental ManagementCompany specialists developed and carriedout an assessment using historical recordsand current sampling to evaluate changes at the landscape, habitat and species levels. The assessment showed that the mangroveecosystem had not been damaged; in fact,mangrove cover age increased 49 percent
during the period of refinery operation.211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 61Barrels of oil-equivalent (boe) A unit of measure
to quantify crude oil and natural gas amountsusing the same basis. Natural gas volumes areconverted to barrels on the basis of energycontent. See Production. 
Biodiversity Refers to the diversity of life on
earth. It encompasses genes, species, habitatsand ecosystems, and the proc esses that 
support them. 
Business unit A Chevron management group
accountable for achieving specific objectivesand strategies.
Byproduct Secondary or incidental product
deriving from a manufacturing process orchemical reaction, not the primary product or service being produced. A byproduct can beuseful and marketable, or a waste or emission. 
Capacity building A key area of focus for
Chevron’s community engagement efforts, which means targeting support toward programsthat help individuals and institutions develop the skills, capabilities and expertise they need to succeed.
The Chevron Way Explains our values: who we
are, what we do, what we believe and what weplan to accomplish.  
Condensates Liquid hydrocarbons produced
with natural gas, separated by cooling and other means. 
Corporate level In this report, refers to activities
or initiatives coordinated or conducted bycorporate departments, rather than by operatingcompanies or business units.
Corporate responsibility At Chevron, corporate
responsibility is defined as consistently applyingour core values, as set out in The Chevron Way;maximizing the positive impact of ouroperations on current and future generations;integrating social, environmental and economicconsiderations into our core practices; andengaging with and balancing the needs of ourkey stakeholders.
Country of origin An employee’s home country,
which can be used as a measure of the extent towhich operations are staffed by local people.
Downstream The industry term used to refer 
to all petroleum activities, from the process ofrefining crude oil and natural gas into petroleumproducts to the distribution, marketing and salesof the products. 
Exploration Searching for crude oil and natural
gas through the use of geologic and topographicalstudies, geophysical and seismic surveys,visualization technology, and the drilling of wells.Flaring and venting The burning or release of
natural gas that is often produced in associationwith oil, a process that typically occurs whenthere is no market or on-site use for the gas. 
Gas-to-liquids (GTL) A process that converts
natural gas into high-quality transportation fuels.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Self-defined 
as a multistakeholder process and independentinstitution whose mission is to developand disseminate globally applicablesustainability reporting guidelines.
Greenhouse gases (GHGs) Gases that trap heat
in the earth’s atmosphere; such gases includecarbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride. 
Integrated energy company A company
engaged in all aspects of the energy industry:exploring for and producing crude oil andnatural gas (upstream); refining, marketing andtransporting crude oil, natural gas and refinedproducts (downstream); manufacturing anddistributing petrochemicals (chemicals); andgenerating power. 
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) Natural gas that is
liquefied under extremely cold temperatures tofacilitate storage or transportation in speciallydesigned v essels. 
Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) Light gases,
such as butane and propane, that can bemaintained as liquids while under pressure. 
Local content The portion of the company’s
suppliers – or the spending on goods andservices with those busine sses – that are
considered local to the communities in which we operate. 
Microcredit or microlending Small-scale credit
or loans typically extended to small busine sses
or individual entrepreneurs as a means offostering local economic development. 
Midstream Industry term referring to the
transportation of crude oil and natural gas from the exploration and production operationsto the refining and marketing operations. See Downstream and Upstream.
Nongovernmental organization (NGO)
An organization that is independent from thegovernment, generally a nonprofit organizationdevoted to providing assistance to or advancinga particular cause or issue. 
Operating company A major Chevron company
organized for a specific business purpose. Operational Excellence Management System
(OEMS) Chevron’s standard approach to
systematic management of safety, health, theenvironment, reliability and efficiency in order to achieve world-class performance.
Operator Term used to describe a company
appointed by venture stakeholders to takeprimary responsibility for day-to-day operationsfor a specific plant or activity. 
Partner In this report, partner is used in its
broad sense to mean a person or organizationassociated with another in a common activity or one that shares a mutual inter est. It does not
imply a member of a contractual partnership inwhich the partners jointly own and carry on abusiness and proportionally share in liabilities,profits or losses of the business.  
Production Total production refers to all the
crude oil and natural gas produced from aproperty. Gross production is the company’sshare of total production before deductingroyalties. Net production is gross productionminus royalties paid to landowners. Oil-equivalentproduction is the sum of the barrels of liquidsand the oil-equivalent barrels of natural gasproduced. See Barrels of oil-equivalent.
Renewable energy Energy resources that are
not depleted when consumed or converted into other forms of energy (for example, solar,geothermal, ocean and tide, and wind). 
Reserves Crude oil or natural gas contained in
underground rock formations called reservoirs.
Proved reserves are the estimated quantitiesthat geologic and engineering data demonstratecan be produced with reasonable certainty fromknown reservoirs under existing economic andoperating conditions. Estimates change asadditional information becomes available. 
Revenue transparency Refers to the practice of
disclosing certain financial arrangements relatedto energy industry operations by industry andhost governments. 
Socioeconomic A category encompassing the
broad range of social and economic issues that affect and are affected by our operations.In many cases, social and economic issues areclosely linked.
Stakeholder At Chevron, defined as those who
affect, are affected by, or have a legitimateinterest in our company’s performance.
Transparency Making relevant and accurate
information available to those with a legitimateinterest in the organization.
Upstream Industry term for oil and natural gas
exploration and production activities. 
62GLOSSARY211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 6263GRI AND API/IPIECA INDEX
VISION AND STRATEGY
PROFILE
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
ECONOMIC
ENVIRONMENTAL
SOCIALLabor Practices and Decent Work
Human Rights
Society
Product ResponsibilityGRI
(Additional indicators in italics)
1.1  1.2
Organizational Profile   2.1 2.2 2.3  2.4 2.5–2.9
Report Scope  2.10 2.11–2.13 2.14 2.15  2.16
Report Profile  2.17  2.18 2.19 2.20 2.21 2.22
Structure and Governance  3.1  3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6  3.7 3.8
Stakeholder Engagement  3.9–3.12
Overarching Policies and Management Systems  3.13 3.14
3.15 3.16  3.17 3.18 3.19  3.20
GRI Content Index  4.1
Customers  EC1 EC2
Suppliers  EC3 EC4
Employees  EC5
Providers of Capital EC6 EC7
Public Sector  EC8 EC9 EC10
Indirect Economic Impacts  EC13
Materials  EN1  EN2
Energy  EN3 EN4 EN17
Water  EN5
Biodiversity  EN6 EN7  EN25  EN27
Emissions, Effluents and Waste  EN8 EN9 EN10 EN11  EN12
EN13 EN30
Products and Services  EN14 EN15
Compliance  EN16
Transport  EN34
Overall  EN35
Employment  LA1  LA2
Employee Satisfaction
Labor/Management Relations  LA3 LA4
Health and Safety  LA5  LA6 LA7  LA8
Training and Education  LA9
Diversity and Opportunity  LA10  LA11
Strategy and Management  HR1 HR2  HR3
Nondiscrimination  HR4
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining  HR5
Child Labor  HR6
Forced and Compulsory Labor  HR7
Disciplinary Practices  HR10
Security Practices
Indigenous Rights
Community  SO1
Bribery and Corruption  SO2
Political Contributions  SO3  SO5
Competition and Pricing  SO7
Customer Health and Safety  PR1
Products and Services  PR2
Respect for Privacy PR3
Key to IndicatorsAPI/IPIECA 
(Additional indicators in italics)
ENV-A8
ENV-6  H&S-1
ECO-A2
ECO-2  ECO-3 ECO-A3
ECO-1  ECO-A1  SOC-A4
ENV-5  ENV-A8
ENV-A7
ENV-A9
ENV-1 ENV-A1 ENV-2 ENV-A2 ENV-3 ENV-A3
ENV-4 ENV-A4  ENV-A5 ENV-A6
SOC-A3
SOC-A2
H&S-2  H&S-3 H&S-4
SOC-5
SOC-1
SOC-4
SOC-7
SOC-6
SOC-9
SOC-A6
SOC-A4  SOC-A5  SOC-A7 SOC-8
SOC-2
SOC-3 SOC-A1
H&S-5Where reported
2, 6–9
3, 13
1, 51, 64
64
10–12
13
10–12, 26, 28, 29,
37, 42–43, 53, 58 
63
5
29
5
5
5, 32, 37
29
––
45, 48
––
5846–47, 51, 53–54,
56
42–43, 47
59
42–43
59
18, 20
20–21
18
22–24
18
20–21
26
20–21
20
––
––
20
26
––
32–36
28
38
28
53
53
––This index refers to: 
IGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) core indicators and those additional GRI indicators on which we have fully or partially repor ted. 
IAmerican Petroleum Institute/International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (API/IPIECA) sustainabilit y 
reporting indicators.
For a more detailed indicator index, go to www.chevron.com/cr_report/ .
Fully Reported in 2004 Partially Reported in 2004
Not Covered in 2004 Not Applicable211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 6364ABOUT THIS REPORT
About This Report
This report covers 2004 data and activities.Occasionally, we mention events that tookplace in 2005 when they help provide aclearer picture of our performance. Ourprevious report was published in September2004 and covered 2003 data and activities. 
On May 9, 2005, we announced the change
of our company name from Chevron TexacoCorporation to Chevron Corporation, whichis the corporate name used in this report.Unless indicated otherwise in this report,1999–2001 data are combined from the pre-merged companies Chevron Corporation andTexaco Inc., whereas 2002–2004 data arefrom the merged corporation. 
This report covers our owned or operated
busine sses and does not address the
performance of our suppliers, contractors orpartners, unless otherwise noted. All financialinformation is reported in U.S. dollars. 
Information contained in the report has not
been subject to external assurance, with theexception of data included in the company’sconsolidated financial statements and our 2002and 2003 greenhouse gas emissions data.  We refer to various resources in the
preparation of this report. We continue to beinformed by the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.Over the past year, we also participated inthe development of the Oil and Gas IndustryGuidance on Voluntary SustainabilityReporting, published in 2005 by theInternational Petroleum IndustryEnvironmental Conservation Association(IPIECA) and the American PetroleumInstitute (API), which also informed thedevelopment of this report. We have includedan index to help readers find informationcorresponding to the GRI and API/IPIECAindicators (see page 63).
Cautionary Statement Relevant to 
Forward-Looking InformationThis Corporate Responsibility Report byChevron Corporation contains forward-looking statements relating to the mannerin which Chevron intends to conduct certainof our activities, based on management’scurrent plans and expectations. Thesestatements are not promises or guarantees of future conduct or policy and are subject toa variety of uncertainties and other factors,many of which are beyond our control.Therefore, the actual conduct of our
activities, including the development,implementation or continuation of anyprogram, policy or initiative discussed orforecast in this report may differ materially in the future. The reader should not place anyundue reliance upon such forward-lookingstatements, which speak only as of the dateof this report. Chevron undertakes noobligation to publicly update any statementscontained in this report.
Legal Notice
As used in this report, the term “Chevron”and such terms as “the company,” “thecorporation,” “their,” “our,” “its,” “we” and“us” may refer to one or more of Chevron’sconsolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to allof them taken as a whole. All of these termsare used for convenience only and are notintended as a precise description of any ofthe separate entities, each of which managesits own affairs.
211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 64211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page 65Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324www.chevron.com
This report is printed using soy-based ink on Forest Stewardship 
Council–certified Neenah environment®, which is 100 percent post-consumer recycled paper and proc essed chlorine-free. 
© 2005 Chevron Corporation. All rights reserved.  
913-0386B 20M 7 /05 Above Pembroke Refinery, Wales. Front cover Operator
Darnelle Choi at the Hawaii Refinery.
Design by Flag www.flag.co.uk
211243A4  10/8/05  12:14 pm  Page A