Addressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
Society
The 2020 sustainability report (hereinafter referred to “SR”) is the 
15th sustainability report of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 
(hereinafter referred to as “Sinopec Corp.”, “the Company” or "We"). 
The report introduces our sustainability philosophy and policies and 
our environmental protection, social responsibility and corporate 
governance (hereinafter referred to as “ESG”) performances in 2020, 
and highlights on how we responded to the expectations and concerns 
of stakeholders.
Report Perimeters
This report covers our business activities from 1 January to 31 
December, 2020, with some content from beyond this time span for 
continuity reasons. The information herein comes from internal data, 
materials from our subsidiaries, and relevant public information. 
Unless otherwise speciﬁed, all monetary ﬁgures shown in this SR are 
expressed in RMB (yuan).
Unless otherwise speciﬁed, the data in this SR covers the data of 
Sinopec Corp. and its wholly-owned and controlled subsidiaries. 
The Company’s Board of Directors reviewed and approved this report 
on March 26, 2021. The report is available in Chinese and English 
versions, and the Chinese version shall prevail in case of any conﬂict or 
inconsistency. The report can be downloaded at the website: 
http://www.sinopec.com/listco/en
References
This report is prepared in accordance with the Guideline on 
Environmental Information Disclosure issued by Listed Companies 
of Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), the Environmental, Social and 
Governance Reporting Guide issued by Hong Kong Stock Exchange 
(HKEx), Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), 
and the criteria of the Global Compact Advanced Communication 
on Progress, and with reference to the GRI Sustainability Reporting 
Standards (GRI Standards) issued by the GRI Global Sustainability 
Standards Board (GSSB). The Addressing Climate Change section is 
also prepared with reference to the recommendations of the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Disclaimer
This report includes certain forward-looking statements with respect to 
the results of our business operations and certain plans and conditions. 
All statements that address activities, events or developments that we 
expect will or may occur in the future, other than statements of historical 
fact, are forward-looking statements and by their nature involve risk and 
uncertainty. This means that actual results may differ materially from 
those indicated in the forward-looking statement due to a number of 
factors and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are made by 
March 26, 2021 and the Company undertakes no obligation to update 
these forward-looking statements unless required by an appropriate 
regulatory authority.Report Information Contents
02
04
05
07
10Letter from Chairman
Board’s Statement on ESG Governance 
About Us
Topic 1: Concerted Efforts to Fight Against 
the Covid-19 Pandemic
Topic 2: Achieving Poverty Eradication 
Goals with Unwavering Commitment 
Development Strategy
Board of Directors
Business Integrity and Operation 
Compliance
Risk Management
Sustainability Management
Technological Innovation16
17
19
22
23
27Corporate Governance14
32
35
40
44Management of Climate Actions
Energy Saving and Emission Reduction
Energy Transition
Optimising Energy Structure30
Addressing Climate Change48
51
53
55
57
58
58
59Environmental Management System
Green Enterprise Campaign
Atmospheric Pollutants Control
Solid Waste Management
Water Resource Management
Land Resource Management
Preventing Leak and Spill of Hydrocarbons
Biodiversity Protection46
Environmental Protection
62
63
64
65
66
67Safety Management System 
Workplace Safety
Contractor Safety
Logistics Safety
Information Security
SecuritySafety Management60
70
72
74
75Respecting and Protecting Human Rights
Employee Health
Employee Training and Development
Caring for EmployeesRespecting Human Rights68Responsible Value Chain 
Community Engagement and Development
Product and Service Management
Contributing to PhilanthropyContributing to Society
78
79
80
8176
Environmental Performance
Social PerformanceKey Performance 83
83
85
Independent Assurance Report 88
Feedback 97Report Content Indexes 92
92
95
95
96HKEX ESG Reporting Guide Content Index
UNGC Ten Principles Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Advanced Level Criteria IndexLetter from Chairman
Dear Friends,
On behalf of the Board of Sinopec Corp., I would like to extend our 
heartfelt thanks for your continued attention and support!
2020 was truly an unprecedented year. While responding to the 
severe challenge of the Covid-19 pandemic, the world is also 
paying greater attention to the future of climate governance as 
green and sustainable development has increasingly become a 
broad consensus. The Chinese government took concrete actions 
to implement the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, and proposed the ambitious goal to peak carbon 
dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. 
As a LEAD member of the United Nations Global Compact and an 
integrated energy and chemical enterprises, Sinopec Corp. is ﬁrmly 
committed to low-carbon, green, safe, responsible and sustainable 
development. We are committed to better integrating environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) considerations into our operations 
and development strategy. Over the past year, we coordinated 
pandemic control and business operations, and worked together 
with stakeholders to overcome difﬁculties. And we have achieved 
not only industry leading operating results, but also successfully 
fulﬁlled our responsibilities as a corporate citizen, making new 
progress in our focused key areas such as transformation 
and upgrading, energy conservation and emission reduction, 
technological innovation and safety management.
We are focusing on high-quality development through accelerated 
transformation and upgrading.  We are vigorously promoting energy 
transition at multiple fronts: actively expanding the natural gas 
business, with a new record high proportion of natural gas in total 
oil and gas production, accelerating the development of new energy 
and renewable energy and actively exploring the hydrogen energy 
industry chain, accelerating the construction of world-class reﬁning 
and chemical facilities and deepen the transformation of the reﬁning 
business from “oil  to chemical”, vigorously developing medical 
raw materials, degradable plastics and other high-end chemical 
products, promoting the upgrade of the reﬁning and marketing 
industry chain and accelerating the development of an integrated 
energy service provider of “oil, gas, hydrogen, electricity and non-
fuel business”.
We are focusing on green and low-carbon development through 
continuous conserving energy and reducing carbon and other 
GHGs emissions. We have taken the lead to conduct researches on 
the strategic path of having carbon emissions peaking and achieve 
carbon neutrality to develop the relevant strategy, targets, roadmaps 
and implementation measures. We continued to implement the 
Green Enterprise Campaign and our pollution control and ozone 
pollution control measures have achieved positive results with lower 
amount of major pollutants discharged, lower volume of fresh water 
withdrawal for industrial use, and the shutdown and ecological 
restoration of facilities in the ecological protection zones. We have 
further implemented the Energy Efﬁciency Improvement Plan, and 
further improved the comprehensive energy efﬁciency. We have strengthened the research and application of carbon dioxide and 
methane recovering technologies. We also vigorously carried out 
research on the control of carbon footprint, and participated in the 
national carbon trading pilot programmes. In 2020, we were named 
as the “China’s Low Carbon Model” for the 10th consecutive year.
We are focusing on innovation-driven development with fruitful 
results of technological innovations. We have vigorously 
implemented the innovation-driven development strategy, pushed 
for reform of the technology management mechanism, and 
increased R&D spending to allow technological innovation to play 
a central role in driving our growth. We have promptly developed 
the production technology of melt-blown fabric and other medical 
supply materials, and achieved a number of new breakthroughs in 
key technological ﬁelds, such as ultra-deep oil and gas exploration 
and development, high-efﬁciency catalytic cracking, 48K large-tow 
carbon ﬁbre, and automotive lightweight materials. We have also 
made breakthroughs in cutting-edge new energy technologies and 
successfully started the pilot production of high-quality hydrogen 
generation units for hydrogen fuel cell. In 2020, we were granted 
a total of 4,254 patents, ranking in the forefront among all large 
Chinese enterprises.
We are focusing on safety development and laying a solid 
foundation for sustainable development.  We have ensured the 
efﬁcient operation of the HSSE management system to support our 
sustainable development. We have further implemented the three-
year safety rectiﬁcation programme, strengthened risk management 
and control in key links, strengthened contractor management 
and full-process management of subcontractors, implemented the 
accountability system, and organised inspections to prevent safety 
risks. We have further strengthened our emergency response 
capabilities and strictly follow pandemic control measures. 
Throughout the year, we have maintained overall safe and stable 
operations.
We are focusing on fulﬁlling social responsibilities as an outstanding 
corporate citizen.  Faced with the severe situation of pandemic, 
we quickly adjusted the production capacities to produce medical 
materials in short supply, including building the world’s largest 
melt-blown fabric production base from scratch in a short time. We 
ensured the supply of oil and gas and facilitate people’s livelihood, 
and played a well-recognised leading role in working together with 
our industrial chain partners to resume operation and production, 
making signiﬁcant contributions to winning the ﬁght to control the 
pandemic. We focused on targeted poverty alleviation and promote 
long-term development to contribute to  poverty alleviation. We have 
also continuously implemented public welfare programmes such as 
Open Days, the Sinopec Lifeline Express Programme. As the ofﬁcial 
partner of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and Paralympics, 
we actively participate in building Olympic infrastructure, provide 
clean energy, and vigorously promote the spirit and culture of the 
Olympics.The Company’s current Board will be re-elected in May 2021. 
During the past three years, Sinopec Corp. vigorously implemented 
the new development concepts, and continuously improved quality, 
performance, governance and efﬁciency. As an active contributor 
to participating in global climate governance and building a 
beautiful China, our environmental protection efforts have achieved 
remarkable results, and our social responsibilities performance 
were well-recognised. The Board has approved Sinopec’s world-
leading development strategy. Looking forward, Sinopec Corp. will 
actively embrace global energy and industrial transformations and 
expedite formation of our development pattern of “One Foundation 
of energy and resources, Two Wings of clean fuels and advanced 
chemicals, and Three Growth Engines in new energy, new materials 
and new economy”, and vigorously implement development 
strategies of value creation, market orientation, innovation driven, 
green and clean, open cooperation and talent-cultivation to strive 
to build a world leading clean energy and chemical company. In the 
context of carbon emission peaking and carbon neutrality target, 
we will adhere to the integration of the carbon reduction process 
and business transformation and upgrading, and the coordination of 
structural optimisation with carbon emission control. After a thorough 
and systematic research, we have proposed our “net zero” target 
as the ultimate goal to promote the clean transformation of fossil 
energy, the scale-up of clean energy, and low-carbon production 
and operation, so as to ensure that our carbon emissions peak 
before the national target, and strive to achieve carbon neutrality 
by 2050, making new contributions to addressing global climate 
change.
Practice enriches knowledge. More knowledge leads to better 
practice. In 2021, Sinopec Corp. will continue to improve its ESG 
governance structure and related policies, continuously improve the 
HSSE management system, so that green and clean will become 
the hallmark of our high-quality development. We will accelerate the 
development of new energy business with hydrogen energy as the 
core, to become the largest hydrogen energy company in China. 
We will continue to strengthen technological innovation to build a 
technology-leading company. We will also continue to leverage our 
advantages in industry layout, resources and technology to support 
rural revitalisation. We cherish your valuable suggestions for the 
company’s sustainable development, and look forward to working 
together with you to become a world-leading clean energy and 
chemical company, building a better life and a better future for all!
Zhang Yuzhuo
Chairman
March 26, 2021
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation2 3
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyBoard’s Statement on ESG Governance
Board’s Role in ESG Governance
The Board of Directors bears the ultimate responsibility for 
Sinopec Corp.’s ESG governance. The Social Responsibility 
Management Committee under the Board of Directors is 
responsible for overseeing the Company’s commitments 
and performances on key ESG issues, coordinating with 
other committees and functional departments to incorporate 
ESG factors into internal control, risk management, strategic 
planning, renumeration and incentives, etc., and reporting ESG 
performances and major plans to the Board of Directors. The 
Social Responsibility Management Committee is composed 
of three directors, with Chairman of the Board serves as the 
chairperson of the committee. The Committee convenes at least 
once each year, and can hold ad hoc meetings when necessary. 
The Committee shall inform the board on ESG related issues in a 
timely manner.
ESG Management Policies and Strategy
The Company attaches great importance to the signiﬁcant 
impact that ESG risks may have on the Company. Every year, 
the Company updates its ESG issue database based on ESG 
risk analysis, macro policies and trends, and feedback from 
stakeholders. Then the ESG issues are prioritised based on 
stakeholder survey and expert evaluation results, providing 
guidance to prioritise the focus of the Company’s ESG 
governance efforts. The results of this year’s materiality analysis 
have been submitted to the Board of Directors for approval.The Company’s Board of Directors made the following statement in accordance with the requirements 
of the “Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guidelines” of the Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Hong Kong Stock Exchange”).
The Board of the Company promises that the Company and its Board of Directors strive to follow 
the requirements of the Guidelines for the Governance of Listed Companies issued by the China 
Securities Regulatory Commission, and the Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting 
Guidelines issued by Hong Kong Stock Exchange, and continuously optimise its environmental, social 
and corporate governance mechanism. We will further strengthen the Board’s role in supervising and 
participation on ESG related issues, and vigorously integrate ESG considerations into the Company’s 
major decision-making processes and various business practices.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation Board of Directors
March 26, 2021Targets, Indicators and Review of Progresses
The Company has established an ESG target management 
mechanism, covering major ESG performance indicators 
such as GHGs emissions, resource consumption, pollutant 
discharge, safety management, and anti-corruption compliance 
management, etc. In addition to annual quantitative targets, 
there are also mid- and long-term management targets, all 
of which are regularly reviewed to check their process. To 
ensure the achievement of these targets, the Company signs 
annual performance commitment documents with management 
staff and subsidiaries to integrate the Company’s key ESG 
performance, and take workplace safety, energy conservation 
and environmental protection, and operation compliance as 
the KPI for key management staff. To ensure the reliability 
of our ESG performance indicators, the Company hired 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian LLP to conduct an 
independent assurance of the Sinopec Corp. 2020 Sustainability 
Report, and issued independent assurance opinions regarding 
14 ESG performance indicators of the Company.About Us
Sinopec Corp. is one of the largest integrated energy and chemical companies in China that 
headquartered in Beijing. The Company was listed in Hong Kong, New York and London 
Stock Exchanges respectively in October 2000, in Shanghai Stock Exchange in August 2001. 
Exploration and 
Production
Reﬁning
Marketing and 
Distribution
Chemicals
International 
Trade
Technology R&DSinopec Corp.’s main oil and gas assets are located in China. Overseas, we only 
participate in four joint projects overseas, including Taihu in Russia, Block 18 in 
Angola, CIR in Kazakhstan, and Mansarovar in Colombia respectively , and there is 
not any other oil and gas assets overseas.
As of the end of 2020, our proved reserves of oil and gas totalled 1,542 mmbbls and 
8,191 bcf respectively.
Sinopec Corp.’s primary reﬁning facilities are located in China. Overseas, we only 
invest in a reﬁning joint venture project in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia.
In 2020, we processed 240 million tonnes of crude oil and produced 140 million 
tonnes of reﬁned oil products.
Sinopec Corp. has a comprehensive reﬁned oil products distribution network 
consisting of 30,713 service stations, and sold a total of 220 million tonnes of reﬁned 
fuel products in 2020. 
Sinopec Corp.’s primary chemical production facilities are located in China, 
producing synthetic resin, synthetic fibre, synthetic rubber and other 
petrochemical products. The only overseas projects include the Sibul project in 
Russia and the Amur project under construction.
In 2020, we produced 12.06 million tonnes of ethylene.
Sinopec Corp. is the largest trader of crude oil in China.
Sinopec Corp. engages in the international trade of crude oil, reﬁned oil products and 
chemical products.  
We have four State Key Laboratories, ﬁve National Engineering Research Centres, a 
National-Provincial Joint Engineering Research Centre, a National Engineering Lab, 
four National Energy R&D (Experiment) Centres, a National Testing and Evaluation 
Platform, and two State-Certiﬁed Enterprise Technology Centres.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation4 5
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyRecognitions and Awards
Won the title of China Low Carbon Model for 
the 10th consecutive year
Won the title of Environmentally and Socially 
Responsible Enterprise
Included in the Top 50 Targeted Poverty Alleviation 
Award of Chinese Enterprises
Won the 2020 Golden Responsibility Award - Best 
Responsibility Achievement AwardNamed one of the Golden Bauhinia-Outstanding 
Listed Companied in the 30th Anniversary of 
the Capital Market by China Securities
Won the title of 2020 Green Development 
Demonstration Enterprises
Included in the Top Ten “Beautiful China, We 
Act” Public Engagement Programmes
Won the Special Contribution to Fight the 
Pandemic Award
Ranked No.1 of Fortune 500 China in 2020 
Named one of the 2020 Best Practices of 
Companies Achieving Sustainable Development 
Goals - United Nations Global Compact
Topic 1: Concerted Efforts to Fight Against 
the Covid-19 Pandemic 
The Covid-19 pandemic  that started in 2020 
posed severe threat to people’s lives and 
health, and brought severe challenges to 
economic and social development globally. 
As the largest energy and chemical company 
in China, Sinopec Corp. ﬁrmly fulﬁlled its two 
major responsibilities: protecting the health 
of its employees and contributing to the ﬁght 
against the pandemic , and comprehensively 
coordinated pandemic  prevention and control 
efforts and its production and business 
operations at multiple fronts, including 
ensuring stable oil and gas supplies, 
producing and supplying materials for medical 
supplies, petrochemical products, masks and 
agricultural produce, innovating on business 
models to bring people convenience, leading 
the efforts to resume production with industrial 
chain partners, strictly implementing pandemic  
control, and actively participating in pandemic  
control efforts in the frontline, etc. Meanwhile, 
we launched “100-day overcoming difﬁculties 
and creating efﬁciency” campaign and 
subsequent campaigns across our entire 
value chain of all business segments to 
mitigate the impact of the pandemic  on the 
supply chain, minimise the impact of the 
pandemic  on our production and operations, 
and contribute to the economic and social 
recovering from the impact of the pandemic .
Ensuring Pandemic  Control Supplies: “We have melt-blown cloth. Who has mask 
machines?”
In response to the sudden supply shortage of melt-blown non-woven fabric, we promptly 
established the largest melt blown fabric production base from scratch, and posted 
messages such as “We have melt-blown cloth. Who has mask machines?” to look for 
partners to make the melt-blown fabric we produced into masks. 
Our actions had impact across the whole industrial chain: upstream, we maintained the 
stable production of the polypropylene materials, while midstream and downstream, we 
started producing melt-blown materials, cloth and masks to help stabilise the market price 
of melt-blown cloth and ensure the quality and quantity of masks. We swiftly invested and 
built 16 melt-blown cloth production lines in our Yanshan and Yizheng facilities with a total 
capacity of 9,600 tons of melt-blown cloth per year and two million masks per day.
As the largest supplier of materials for medical and healthcare products in China, we took 
no time to adjust our its production plan to give priority to the production of medical grade 
polyoleﬁn materials for making masks, surgical gowns, protective suits, infusion bottles 
and syringes, and disinfection supplies. Besides ensuring the material supply for medical 
supplies, we also promised not to increase the prices of materials needed for making 
pandemic  control supplies.Resuming Production and Switching 
Capacity to Support Pandemic  
Control
When the pandemic  erupted, the domestic 
demand for medical supplies grew explosively 
and resulted signiﬁcant shortage of medical 
supplies such as masks, protective suits, and 
disinfectants. To help solve this weak link in 
medical supplies and resource constraint, 
Sinopec Corp. took prompt actions to resume 
production. We leveraged our industrial, 
logistics and procurement capabilities to not 
only ensure the stable supply of energy and 
daily necessities, but also produce the urgently 
needed medical supplies and materials by 
expanding and adjusting our capacities, making 
positive contributions to the pandemic  control 
efforts.
The 500 tonne-per-year melt-blown cloth production line of the Sinopec Yizheng Chemical Fibre Plant 
started operation on March 29, 2020
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation6 7
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
Society EasyJoy convenience stores started selling grocery to help both farmers sell their produce and local residents to get daily necessities
Protecting Employee Health with Strict Pandemic  
Control Measures
Since the outbreak of the pandemic , we closely followed the 
development of the pandemic  and promptly activated relevant 
emergency plans to protect the safety and health of our employees, 
customers and the public. We closely monitored the health of 
employees, provided emergency supplies, and carried out joint 
prevention and control activities in accordance with government 
requirements. As of the end of 2020, there was no occurrence of 
clustering Covid-19 infection within the Company. 
Connecting the “missing links” to keep the industry running 
Regarding the problems and weaknesses in the industrial chain 
triggered by the pandemic , we made great efforts to help solve the 
logistics and transportation challenges and the lack of liquidity, so 
as to help the industry quickly resume normal operation.Responding to Supply Chain Challenges with 
Coordinated Efforts
The Covid-19 pandemic  put tremendous pressure on both 
upstream and downstream of the supply chain. We strengthened 
the cooperation with suppliers and partners to deal with the 
challenges by initiating better information exchange and stronger 
industrial chain coordination, and accelerating the ﬂow of 
products. 
Building a “strong supply chain” together to promote stable 
economic growth
We proactively promoted industrial chain coordination, focusing 
on the EPEC e-commerce platform to deepen the cooperation 
with upstream and downstream partners, governments and other 
enterprises, forming a stronger, synergic industrial chain for 
promoting stable economic growth. When the pandemic  caused 
severely disruption in export, we used the EPEC e-commerce 
platform to help the affected products ﬁnd new market domestically. 
In addition, we established a dedicated Hubei Products section on 
EPEC and provide special bidding sessions for industrial projects 
in Hubei to support the economic recovering of the province. At 
present, there were 3,182 products of 21 Hubei enterprises offered 
on EPEC and marketed overseas, with a total sale of RMB 220 
million.
Ensuring Stable Fuel Supply
Leveraging our extensive marketing network, we kept over 30,000 
Sinopec service stations and 27,000 EasyJoy conveniences stores 
open for business to ensure the stable fuel supplies. 
We also donated 16,500 litres of diesel fuel and 1,000 drums of 
construction machinery lubricants to support the construction of the 
hospitals for pandemic patients, and free refuelling service for the 
ambulances of these hospitals.Ensuring the Supply of Daily Necessities
To better serve the spiked demand for purchases and deliveries of 
daily necessities due to the pandemic lockdowns, we vigorously 
promoted contact-free services such as the “one-touch refuelling” 
to create a safe shopping environment, and provided convenient 
supplies of daily staples and pandemic control supplies such as 
masks and disinfectants. In addition, we also used our extensive 
logistic network to solve the serious problem of unsalable rural 
vegetables. As a temporary measure, over 7,000 EasyJoy 
conveniences stores in 126 cities started selling vegetables, helping 
both farmers sell their produce and local residents to get daily 
necessities.
 Distributing free masks to customers during the pandemic 
Coordinated the compilation of the Pandemic 
Prevention and Control Guidelines for Service Stations, 
and all employees were aware of the pandemic 
prevention and control requirements;
Developed the “Eight-Step Refuelling Procedure 
for Pandemic Control” to better protect the safety of 
employees;
Strengthened counselling to protect employees’ 
physical and mental health, provided psychological 
counselling to high-risk groups identiﬁed, and invited 
health experts to give employees lectures on pandemic  
prevention guidelines;
Launched the “Sinopec Pandemic Hotline” and 
organised a team of more than 5,000 volunteers to 
help employees deal with the stresses during the pandemic ;
Conducted surveys on the mental health of overseas 
employees and provided help to those with needs, 
organised cultural and sports activities, and provide 
assistance to employees with mishaps in their families; 
Offered free health diagnosis and consultation for the 
employees and their families on the internet.
Beijing Petroleum Company conducted live broadcasting to promote the 
sales of agricultural products from Hubei at EasyJoy convenient stores3,182 
products from Hubei enterprises offered on EPEC
with a total sale of RMB 220 million
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation8 9
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1
Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyTopic 2: Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals with 
Unwavering Commitment 
Since 1988, Sinopec Corp. has been actively involved in poverty alleviation undertakings. As of the end 
of 2020, all of our eight designated targeted poverty alleviation counties had been ofﬁcially lifted out of 
poverty.To eradicate poverty, we stuck to the “targeted” principle and our promise of “on one left behind”, 
continued to provide targeted poverty alleviation assistance through industrial development, product 
marketing, job creation and education support in 2020.
In the future, we will further leverage our advantages, continue our support in capital and 
personnel, fully utilise local resource endowments, and work together with our stakeholders 
to support rural industries, promote rural revitalisation, and turn rural areas into a beautiful, 
liveable and happy homeland.Poverty alleviation 
through industrial 
development
Poverty alleviation 
through product 
marketing
Poverty alleviation 
through education 
support
Poverty alleviation 
through promoting 
employmentFocusing on income generation, we leveraged local natural resource endowment to develop 
specialty poverty alleviation industries such as growing, animal husbandry, and processing, 
and connected various resources to establish a long-term poverty alleviation mechanism 
through commercialisation.
In 2020, we implemented 16 poverty alleviation projects focusing on industrial development, 
beneﬁting over 30,000 low-income population.
Following the “one county, one product” concept, we established a dedicated product 
marketing team to develop brand recognition for specialty products from poverty-stricken 
counties, such as quinoa from Dongxiang County, yak beef jerky from Zeku County, duck eggs 
from Yingshang County, and mulberry stick fungus from Yuexi County. 
Developed a product selection mechanism and a traceability mechanism to ensure both the 
quality and the authenticity of the poverty alleviation purpose of the products being marketed.
Allocated a dedicated display shelf for poverty alleviation products in 28,000 EasyJoy 
conveniences stores, providing the marketing access to reach consumers for products from 
poverty-stricken areas.
Promoted the sales of poverty alleviation products by giving the products access to our online 
and ofﬂine sales channels for poverty alleviation products, such as EasyJoy online store, 
Sinopec employee crowd purchase online store, and Shengda Super Market, and prioritising 
them for corporate procurement. 
In 2020, the Company helped marketed RMB 480 million worth of products from poverty-
stricken areas.
Improved education facilities such as classrooms and dormitories in poverty-stricken areas. 
Supported 1,560 students from low-income families with RMB 950,000 through the Sinopec 
Student Grant programme.
Organised Sinopec Summer/Winter Camps, Winter Olympics Camps and other activities for 
students from targeted poverty counties.  
Launched special hiring sessions in targeted poverty counties during the pandemic  and 
provided over 1,400 job opportunities.  
Besides the special hiring sessions in targeted poverty counties though a third party, the 
Company also carried out recruiting events in eight targeted poverty alleviation counties.
Built poverty alleviation workshops in poverty-stricken areas to help create job opportunities for 
low-income population, especially women.
Overview of Sinopec’s Poverty Alleviation Achievements
List of Designated Poverty Alleviation Target Counties Achieving Poverty Alleviation GoalsRMB
2.4 billion  
poverty alleviation fund 
cumulatively
8 counties 
lifted out of povertyRMB 2.4 billion+ of poverty alleviation funds invested cumulatively, including RMB 190 million 
invested and RMB 45.88 million of poverty alleviation funds facilitated in 2020
989 poverty alleviation projects implemented
750 designated poverty alleviation target villages lifted out of poverty
1,945 poverty alleviation volunteers dispatched cumulatively, 15,318 grassroots ofﬁcers and 21,669 
technicians trained during the year
Nearly 3,000,000 low-income population beneﬁted
The Sinopec Poverty Alleviation Model was highly recognised with its comprehensive approach
August 2018 Yuexi County, Anhui Province March 2020 Fenghuang County, Hunan Province
February 2019 March 2020
May 2019 April 2020
November 2020 February 2020Bangor County, Tibet Autonomous Region Luxi County, Hunan Province
Yingshang County, Anhui Province Zeku County, Qinghai Province
Dongxiang Autonomous County, 
Gansu ProvinceYuepuhu County, Kashgar Prefecture, 
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation10 11
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2
Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietySea Change in Dongxiang
Dongxiang County, Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture, 
Gansu Province, is located at the intersection of the Loess 
Plateau and the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. With mountainous 
terrain, barren soils, and severe shortage of water, 
Dongxiang, the only ethnic minority autonomous county for 
the Dongxiang ethnic minority, was deeply impoverished.
Since Dongxiang County became the designated assistance 
target for Sinopec in 2013, we have invested a total of RMB 
450 million and implemented a series of poverty alleviation 
projects, and effectively addressed the most urgent 
livelihood challenges of the local people. In November 2020, 
Dongxiang County was ofﬁcially lifted out of poverty, marking 
another victory along the journey of enter an all-round well-
off society with “on one left behind”.
Fostering knowledge and skills 
Among the population of 300,000 in Dongxiang County, ethnic 
minorities account for a relatively high proportion, and overall 
education level is relatively low. Sinopec invested RMB 89.63 
million of education poverty alleviation support to build schools 
and training centres, and support students from low-income 
families or families with other difﬁculties. We sponsored the 
“Project Hope Care for Girls” programme in Linxia Middle School, 
providing food, boarding, commuting and living assistance to the 
515 girl students study at the school. 
We carried out a series of trainings on craft making for local 
women Longyuan, organised villagers to go to Ningxia to study 
growing and breeding skills, and hosted advanced capacity 
building trainings for local veterinarians, Women’s Federation 
poverty alleviation workers, and grassroots village administrators, 
effectively improving the capabilities and skills of technical 
personnel and village administrators in Dongxiang County.
With the unwavering support of Sinopec, Dongxiang County has 
turned into a vibrant new look. During the 14th Five-Year Plan 
period, we will continue our support to help Dongxiang County 
further consolidate its poverty alleviation achievements, and 
make more contributions to build a better Dongxiang.Developing specialty produce and industries
In order to accelerate the pace to eradicate poverty, we established 
a quinoa pilot farm in 2018 with the cooperation of Gansu 
Academy of Agricultural Sciences. In 2020, there were over 670 
hectares of quinoa growing in Dongxiang County, generating 
higher incomes for 2,149 farming households and over1,600 low-
income villagers working on related businesses. We helped build 
processing workshops, promoted the “Dongxiang Quinoa” brand, 
and developed a “ﬁeld to fork” full industrial chain poverty alleviation 
model including growing, harvesting, procurement, processing, 
packaging and sales.
We also supported the Bulengou Village Chicken Cooperative, 
building warm coop and encouraging chicken farmers to have 
conﬁdence; worked together with the China Foundation for Poverty 
Alleviation to support homestay tourism in Maxiang Village, 
Tangwang Township; and established Gansu Agricultural and 
Animal Husbandry Product Sales Centre and the Yangtze River 
Delta and Pearl River Delta markets, leveraging our extensive 
marketing platform to bring over 230 local agricultural products to 
the nationwide market.Breaking infrastructure bottlenecks
Water shortage is the primary problem in Dongshan County. 
We spent over RMB 67 million to lay water pipelines, build 
and renovate reservoirs, install household tap water, build 
a water quality inspection centre, and develop a tap water 
intelligent management system, to bring safe and convenient 
tap water to the homes of villagers in the Bulengou Valley.  
Besides household tap water, we invested another RMB 100 
million to upgrade village roads, replacing the old dirt roads, 
which were “dusty when sunny and muddy when rainy”, with 
concrete ones. We also supported 56 villagers in Bulengou 
Village to build houses, and supported housing renovation 
projects that beneﬁted 1,335 households, including virtually 
all the registered low-income households in the Bulengou 
Valley.
RMB 450 million  
supported cumulatively Photovoltaic power generation project in Dongxiang County  Promoting quinoa growing in Dongxiang County  Sinopec volunteers helping with rice harvest
1,335 households beneﬁted from 
housing renovation projectGenerated higher income for 
2,149 farming households RMB 89.63 million 
donated in education poverty alleviation support
“Previously, we mainly grew potato and 
maise with very low yields. We could only 
earn about RMB 800 per mu of land each 
year. Now we grow quinoa, which has 
greater output and can bring us at least 
RMB 2,000 yuan per mu of land.”
- Ma Youlong, Villager from Qiaolu Village, 
Dashu Township, Dongxiang CountyCase
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation12 13
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2
Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
Society01
Since its listings, Sinopec Corp. has established a sound corporate 
governance structure. The Company regularly optimises basic systems 
such as the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors, 
and the Board of Supervisors, and actively manages information 
disclosure and investor relations to improve transparency. In addition 
to maintaining a high standard of business ethics, the Company strives 
to integrate risk management, operation compliance, anti-corruption, 
technological innovation, environmental protection, safety development, 
social responsibility and other concepts into its development strategy, 
business operations and corporate culture, and safeguard the legitimate 
rights and interests of investors, communities, customers, employees 
and other stakeholders. 
Development Strategy
Board of Directors
Business Integrity and Operation Compliance
Risk Management
Sustainability Management
Technological InnovationCorporate 
GovernanceDevelopment Strategy
With a vision of “to build a world-leading clean energy and chemical corporation”, the Company vigorously 
implements its world-leading development strategy, expedite formation of our development pattern of “One 
Foundation of energy and resources, Two Wings of clean fuels and advanced chemicals, and Three Growth 
Engines in new energy, new materials and new economy” and implement the six development strategies.Board of Directors 
The Board of Directors is the core of corporate governance. Sinopec Corp. continues to optimise the 
composition of the Board, standardise relevant mechanisms for the Board and its committees, and 
attach importance to the role of Independent Directors, laying a solid foundation for the Company’s 
sustainable development.
Board of Directors 
The Board is the decision-making body of Sinopec Corp. In 2020, 
the Company held eleven Board meetings attended by all directors 
with no absence. The Directors give full play to their professional 
skills and exercise their powers as Directors within the boundary of 
their authorisation, actively promoting the sustainable development 
of the Company.
Diversity of the Board 
The Company has formulated the Board Diversity Policy, which 
stipulates that members of the Board shall be nominated and 
appointed based on the skills and experience required for the 
overall optimum operation of the Board, while taking into account 
the targets and requirements for diversity of the Board. When 
deciding the composition of the Board, Sinopec Corp. takes into 
consideration of several factors in relation to the diversity of the 
Board, including but not limited to profession experience, skills, 
knowledge, length of service, regions, cultural and educational 
backgrounds, gender and age.
The Company focuses on the implementation of the Board Diversity 
Policy. The Directors come from different industries at home and 
abroad, and have rich work experience. Professional backgrounds 
of Directors include petroleum and petrochemical, as well as 
economics, accounting and ﬁnance, which are conductive to 
scientiﬁc decision-making.
For detailed information of members of the Board, please refer to 
the Sinopec Corp. 2020 Annual Report. Independence of the Board 
The Company has established a complete and sound Independent 
non-executive director system. independent non-executive directors 
are selected strictly in accordance with the election procedures and 
terms of appointment stipulated in the Articles of Association from 
prominent personnel and industry experts both at home and abroad. 
The number of independent non-executive directors shall account 
for no less than one third of the total members of the Board.
Independent non-executive directors fulﬁl their duties in good 
faith as required by the Company’s Terms of Reference of 
the Independent Non-Executive Directors. When expressing 
independent opinions on company affairs, independent non-
executive directors pay particular attention to the following 
matters: major related transactions, annual proﬁt distribution plans, 
appointment and dismissal of senior management personnel, and 
issues that may harm the interest of minority shareholders. In 
addition to exercising the general functions and powers of a director 
of the Company’, the Articles of Association also grants some 
special powers to independent non-executive directors to ensure 
the effective protection of the legitimate rights and interests of 
shareholders, especially minority shareholders.
The Articles of Association and related policy 
documents can be found at:
http://www.sinopec.com/listco/about_sinopec/
corporate_governance/
Development 
Strategies of 
Sinopec Corp.
Market 
orientation
Innovation
driven
Green and 
clean
Value 
creation
Talent-
cultivation
Open
cooperation
To pay greater attention 
to resource coordination, 
system optimisation, process 
reengineering, and stop-loss 
of non-performing businesses, 
so as to focus all efforts and 
resources on value creation and 
allow all industrial chains to be 
able to create value.
To optimise organisational 
structure and adjust the 
assessment mechanism in 
accordance with the market 
allocation of resources, so as 
to achieve a keen perception of 
market changes, quick response 
capability to market demand, 
and effective inﬂuence of market 
trends.
To promote comprehensive 
innovation with technological 
innovation as the core and optimise 
systems and mechanisms to 
encourage innovation, so as to 
build a technology-driven company 
and realise technological self-
reliance.
To develop cleaner fossil energy and 
scale up clean energy, vigorously 
promote pollution control and energy 
conservation and emission reduction, 
actively develop and produce 
environmentally friendly products, 
so as to make progress towards the 
“net zero” carbon emission target and 
become an industry benchmark for 
green development.To intensify international 
cooperation and expand mutually 
beneﬁcial cooperation with various 
capitals, especially industry 
leaders, and handle public relations 
with high-level of sophisticated.To attach importance to both 
capability and integrity, selecting 
talents based on merits, attract 
talents, optimise talent attraction 
and retention mechanism, so as to 
create strong incentives to attract 
talents and create an enabling 
career platform.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation16 17
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyBoard Committees  
In order to effectively fulﬁl the functions of the board of directors and improve the quality of decision-
making of the Board, the Company has established ﬁve committees, namely the Strategy Committee, the 
Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration and Appraisal Committee, and the CSR 
Management committee. The members of the Board committees are directors of the Company.
Researching the Company’s sustainability policy, governance, strategy, planning, etc., and reviewing 
the Company’s annual sustainability plan and its implementation.
The CSR Management Committee is composed of three directors, including Chairman of the Board, 
who serves as Chairman, and two independent non-executive directors, who serve as members.   
In 2020, the CSR Management Committee convened one meeting, with a 100% attendance rate.Researching and reviewing the remuneration policies and plans of directors, supervisors and 
senior management.
The Remuneration and Appraisal Committee is composed of three directors, including an 
independent non-executive director, who serve as member.   
In 2020, the Remuneration and Appraisal Committee convened one meeting, with a 100% 
attendance rate.Making recommendations to the Board on the size and composition of the Board, as well as the 
selection criteria, procedures and candidates for directors and senior management personnel 
based on the Company’s business activities, asset scale and equity structure.
The Nomination Committee is composed of three directors, including Chairman of the Board, who 
serves as Chairman, and two independent non-executive directors, who serve as members.   
In 2020, the Nomination Committee convened ﬁve meetings in total, with a 100% attendance rate.Responsible for proposing to hire and replace external auditing agencies, supervising the 
Company’s internal audit system and its implementation, handling the communication between 
internal auditing and external auditing agencies, reviewing the Company’s ﬁnancial information 
and its disclosure policies, and reviewing the Company’s internal control system, etc.
The Audit Committee consists of three independent non-executive directors, including one 
independent non-executive director who is an accounting professional.
In 2020, the Audit Committee convened six meetings in total, with a 100% attendance rate.Make recommendations to the Board on the long-term development strategies and signiﬁcant 
investment decisions of the Company.
The Strategy Committee consists of four directors, including Chairman of the Board, who serves 
as Chairman, and an independent non-executive director, who serves as members.   
In 2020, the Strategy Committee convened three meetings in total, with a 100% attendance rate.
Compliance Management Tax Management
The Company has formulated and implements the Integrity and 
Compliance Management Handbook, which speciﬁes 80 commonly 
applicable codes of conduct in ten key areas, including corporate 
governance and operation, business partners, international trade 
and investment, intellectual property and data, social responsibility 
and employee rights, taxation and assets, antitrust and unfair 
competition, consumer rights protection, anti-commercial bribery 
and anti-corruption, and HSSE.
In 2020, the Company formulated the Sinopec Compliance 
Management Measures, which clariﬁes the basic compliance 
management requirements of the Company, and requires the 
integration of compliance requirements throughout the decision-
making, implementation, and supervision processes. Meanwhile, 
the Company implemented the Sinopec Compliance Management 
System Implementation Plan to effectively improve the compliance 
management system in terms of compliance organisational 
structure, policy system, business process, working mechanism, 
and safeguard measures. The Company has also strengthened the 
effectiveness of supervision and internal control implementation, 
prioritised research and early warning of overseas legal compliance 
risks, carried out legal compliance education and training, vigorously 
cultivated a risk compliance culture, and organised a professional 
talent team. During the reporting period, the Company had no major 
legal compliance incident.The Company has formulated and implemented the Sinopec Tax 
Risk Management Guidelines, requiring strict compliance with 
the taxation regulations of the place where it operates, rigorous 
accounting of taxes and charges, and timely tax ﬁling. The Company 
also paid close attention to changes in the tax laws and regulations 
of the place where it operates, and regularly evaluated its tax risks 
to ensure tax payment compliance. 
The Company disclosed its annual taxation payment information 
in annual report to ensure that its stakeholders could have timely 
access to this information. Following the relevant provisions of the 
British Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, the Company 
disclosed a Resource Country Government Payment Report 
on the London Stock Exchange website, and made relevant 
announcements on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Hong 
Kong Stock Exchange subsequently, listing the payments that 
the Company had made to different governments because of its 
business activities. 
In 2020, the Company had no incident of major tax-related litigation 
or arbitration.Business Integrity and Operation Compliance
Sinopec Corp. adheres to the rule of law 
and the integrity culture of “honouring 
agreements and operating compliance”, 
and continues to improve its governance 
of business integrity and operation 
compliance. The Company focused on 
key areas, key links and key personnel, 
and implements a “zero tolerance” policy 
towards corruption and violations of 
business ethics, striving to eliminate all 
forms of corruption.
 Strategy Committee
Audit Committee
Nomination Committee
Remuneration and 
Appraisal Committee
CSR Management 
Committee  Picture Legend: Employees of Sinopec Zhongyuan Oilﬁeld Co. reading materials on Chinese Constitution
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation18 19
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyAnti-corruption Organisation System
The Company established the Sinopec Supervision Committee, 
with Chairman of the Board in charge, which is responsible 
for formulating anti-corruption and integrity guidelines and key 
measures, identifying compliance risks, convening regular 
committee meetings, researching and deploying key supervision 
tasks, and overseeing the timely rectiﬁcation of problems found. The 
Company implemented a two-level supervisory committee system 
at the headquarters and the subsidiary levels respectively, ensuring 
full coverage of supervision, including directors, supervisors, senior 
management personnel, and all organisations and personnel that 
exercise management authorities. The Disciplinary Inspection and 
Supervision Department is responsible for the daily supervision 
and management of anti-corruption, reports to the Supervisory 
Committee and CSR Management Committee regularly, and 
conducts accountability assessment for the anti-corruption and 
integrity management at subsidiaries.
The Social Responsibility Management Committee of the 7th Board 
of Directors discussed and reviewed the Company’s anti-corruption 
and compliance management and its performance in 2020 at the 
third meeting in March 2021.
Anti-corruption system
In 2020, the Company continued to strengthen its anti-corruption 
system, and optimised a “Big Supervision” structure by integrating 
the comprehensive supervision by the party group/committee, the 
dedicated supervision by the Disciplinary Inspection and Supervision 
departments, and the functional supervision by each functional 
departments, providing a system guarantee for the Company’s long-
term and stable development by creating an integrity culture that “no 
one dare, no one can, and no one want to” become corrupt. 
In addition, employees who are also CPC members also need to 
strictly abide by party regulations, such as the CPC Code of Integrity 
and CPC Self-Discipline, the CPC Regulations on Disciplinary 
Actions, and the CPC Accountability Regulations, and other 
regulations, and are put under relevant supervision accordingly.Anti-Corruption Management System
The Company strictly abides by China’s anti-corruption laws and regulations, the United Nations 
Convention against Corruption, the anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws applicable to the countries 
and regions where it operates, and the business integrity and anti-corruption regulations and 
commitments of its business partners’. The Company also advocates for an integrity culture, and 
strictly forbids its subsidiaries and employees, including labourers and temporary workers, to give 
or accept bribery, or involved in corruption, fraud or monopoly behaviours for any reason, in any 
form and any location. The Company also apply these requirements to its suppliers, contractors 
and service providers. When conducting business overseas, the Company strictly abides by the 
aforementioned principles and regulations of anti-corruption, anti-commercial bribery, anti-fraud, 
and anti-monopoly.
Sinopec Supervisory Committee Working Rules (Trial)
Whistle-blowing Handling Methods of Sinopec Disciplinary 
Inspection and Supervision Department
Case Trial Measures for Disciplinary Inspection 
Departments of Sinopec Subsidiaries Plans on Reforming Supervision Mechanism 
Regulation on the Punishment of Employees who 
Violate Disciplines or Regulations 
Supervision and Discipline Measures of Sinopec 
Discipline Inspection and Supervision Team (Trial)
Opinions on Strengthening Daily Supervision of 
Discipline Inspection and Supervision Institutions (Trial) 
Guidelines on Strengthening the Prevention and 
Control of Overseas Integrity RiskExisting policies
Policies released in 2020
Ensuring integrity with transparency
The Company regards transparency and openness as a key 
approach to prevent and ﬁght corruption, and created a conducive 
supervision environment internally and externally by focusing on 
key areas and key links, improving information disclosure policies 
to expand both the breadth and the depth of information disclosure. 
In 2020, the Companies disclosed over 5.34 million pieces of 
information through its business information system.
Petition mechanism
The Company has established unimpeded petition and 
whistleblowing channels, including mail, phone and email. There are 
speciﬁc handling procedures to ensure all reported incidents shall 
be registered, veriﬁed and investigated properly and the whistle-
blower shall be informed of the result. The identify information of the 
whistle-blower shall be keep conﬁdential to protect his/her rights.Anti-corruption and compliance of supply chain
The Company signs the Letter of Responsibility for Business 
Ethics with its contractors and suppliers, speciﬁes that in case of 
corruption, they will be disqualiﬁed and their transactions with the 
Company will be discontinued, and they will be banned from any 
business cooperation with Sinopec Corp. for the next three years. 
Violators with severe cases will be blacklisted by the Company. 
This document has been strictly implemented, and there was no 
incident of supplier being disciplined due to violation of the Letter of 
Responsibility for Business Ethics in 2020.
Raise awareness of anti-corruption
The Company strives to build a culture of integrity, and carried out 
a series of anti-corruption education programmes that targeted for 
different categories and levels of employees to ensure the relevance 
and effectiveness of the programmes. 
Disciplinary 
education
Launched the Anti-corruption and 
Integrity Education Month event 
with the theme of “Abiding by Laws, 
Strengthening Disciplines and Promoting 
Development”, organising employees to 
study laws and regulations and relevant 
company policies.
Indicators
Number of employees participated in anti-corruption 
trainings (10,000 person-times)
Coverage rate of anti-corruption trainings (%)
Number of CPC integrity and anti-corruption trainings 
organised (10,000 times)
Number of employees participated in CPC integrity and anti-
corruption trainings (10,000 person-times)2018
114.3
100
1.5
59.62019
123.8
100
1.7
67.32020
105.2
100
1.3
85.2Cautionary 
educationIntegrity 
culture 
programmes
Organised group-wide cautionary 
sessions, and circulated typical 
corruption and violation cases for 
caution, reminding employees to 
abide by the red line.Organised online education 
sessions for employees, and 
hosted relevant lectures to foster an 
integrity culture and self-discipline 
awareness among employees.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation20 21
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietySound risk management is essential for the stable operation of enterprises. Sinopec Corp. attaches 
great importance to the risks it comes across in the process of sustainable development. The Company 
continuously improves its risk management system and strives to cultivate a solid risk management 
culture, so as to lay a solid foundation for the Company’s sustainable development.
The Audit Committee, set up under the Board of Directors, is responsible for reviewing risk management 
and providing advices to the Board. Moreover, the Comprehensive Risk Management Working Group and 
relevant departments are established in charge of managing and mitigating risks related to production 
safety, environmental protection, response to climate change, ﬁnance, legal affairs, anti-corruption and 
overseas security. The Comprehensive Risk Management Working Group convenes meetings regularly 
to organise the identiﬁcation and assessment of major and signiﬁcant risks, determine control measures 
and formulate solutions. Subsidiaries and professional companies also followed the requirements of 
comprehensive risk management and established their respective Comprehensive Risk Management 
Leading Group to ensure the effective implementation of risk management.
Sinopec Corp. adopted the enterprise risk management framework provided by COSO, and established 
its risk management policy and risk management organisation system, such as the Comprehensive 
Risk Management Measures and the Risk Assessment Guidelines, and ensured their implementation. 
The Company annually conducts risk evaluation and incorporate risks identiﬁed into the online risk 
management system in accordance with the principles of “layering, classiﬁcation, and concentration” to 
clarity risk management responsibilities.
The Company regularly carries out internal control and risk management training to enhance overall risk 
management awareness of employees, and encourage them to improve their risk management skills. In 
2020, a total 35,081 employees from 119 units participated in risk management related trainings.
In 2020, the Company had no major risk incident, and its effectiveness of internal control continued to 
improve.Risk Management
ESG Governance
The Company actively integrates ESG considerations into its corporate governance system. By 
establishing and optimising ESG governance structures and mechanisms, the Company ensures that the 
relevant economic, social and environmental factors are fully considered in decision-making process at all 
levels, ensuring the proper management of its sustainability issues.Sustainability Management
Adhering to the development concepts of innovation, coordination, green, openness and sharing, Sinopec 
Corp. has integrated ESG into its development strategy. The Company continuously improves its ESG 
governance structure and related policies along its unwavering quest to achieve low-carbon, green, safe, 
responsible and sustainable development, working together with stakeholders to create sustainable 
development value.
The Company has established an ESG governance framework at both the headquarters and the subsidiary levels:
The Board of Directors is the top ESG decision-making body, responsible for the overall planning and coordination of its ESG 
governance.
The CSR Management Committee, under the Board of Directors, is responsible for supervising and approving the Company’s 
ESG strategy, targets, and annual plans, and the relevant implementation and evaluation. Both the Strategy Committee and the 
Audit Committee under the Board of Directors also participate in the deliberation and decision-making of the Company’s climate 
strategy, ESG risk management, and other related issues.
Our headquarters is responsible for the overall coordination and implementation of the Company’s ESG management, and 
functional departments, such as Energy Management and Environmental Protection, Safety Supervision, Human Resources, 
Enterprise Restructuring, and Legal are responsible for the daily-to-daily management of speciﬁc ESG issues.
Our subsidiaries operate in accordance with the Company’s ESG management policies and procedures.
35,081
employees from
119 units 
participated in risk 
management 
related trainings
Reporting
Reporting / Approval
CommunicationDecision-making / Feedback
Decision-making / Feedback
Coordination / ImplementationBoard of Directors
CSR Management 
Committee
Sinopec Headquarters
HQ Departments / SubsidiariesNomination 
Committee
Anti-corruption 
Management SystemRisk Management 
SystemAudit CommitteeStrategy 
Committee
Human Rights 
Management SystemHSSE Management 
SystemRemuneration and 
Appraisal Committee
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation22 23
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyStakeholder Engagement
Aiming at better serving the people with the upmost sincerity, Sinopec Corp. maintain regular communication 
with investors, community representatives, customers, employees and other stakeholders to gain a more 
comprehensive understanding of relevant sustainability issues.
Government and 
Regulators
Shareholders
Customers
Employees
CommunitiesStakeholders Key Communication Topics Communication Channels
Daily communication and reporting
Discussion and seminar
Project approval
Government supervision and regulationBusiness ethics and anti-corruption
Risk management and operation compliance
Invest in new energy
Respond to climate change
Ensure energy security
Taxation & job creation
Research and innovation
Business performance
Research and innovation
Respond to climate change
Promote energy transition
Risk management and operation compliance
Improve quality of products and services
Accelerate smart transformation
Invest in new energy 
Ensure energy security
Workplace health and safety
Training and career development 
Diversity and equal opportunity
Respect human rights
Community engagement and development
Taxation and job creation
Responsible supply chain
Support eradication of poverty
Respond to climate change
Pollution and emission management
Invest in new energy
Resource recycling and reuse
Biodiversity and land use
Water resource managementInformation disclosure required by law
Performance release and meeting
Teleconference and online interaction
Investor hotline
Investor visit
Capital market conference
Daily service communication
Customer visits
Questionnaire survey
Website, WeChat and other online media
Employees’ representative meeting
Annual commendation
Regular trainings
Corporate cultural activities
Website, WeChat and other online media
Corporate philanthropy
On-site research
Community communication activities
Media communication
Project environmental and social risk assessment
Environmental performance monitoring and disclosure
Respond to external investigationEvaluation
We invited both key stakeholders, such as investors and 
sustainability experts, and employee representatives, to 
evaluate the identiﬁed issues from their perspectives, and 
constructed a two-dimensional mapping of the issues 
based on their signiﬁcance.
Screening
Based on the materiality matrix constructed, we ranked the 
material issues based on their signiﬁcance, and selected 
the issues with high signiﬁcance for focused disclosure in 
this report.Identiﬁcation
We studied macro policies and industry trends and 
benchmarked with the sustainability performance of 
industry peers to identify policy trends and business 
opportunities related to the energy and chemical industry.
We reviewed our development strategy and plans and 
identiﬁed 22 issues of signiﬁcance both to the Company 
and its stakeholders.
2
5
1
6 11 1213
17
18 19
212022
1489
10
7
3
415
16
Core
Important
Regular
Core RegularCore
Signiﬁcance to Sinopec
Signiﬁcance to stakeholders1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12-
A4 Climate change
A4 Climate change
-
B2 Health and Safety 
A1 emissions, A3 environment 
and natural resources 
-
B7 Anti-corruption
B6 Product Responsibility 
-
B1 employment, B4 labour 
standards 
A4 Climate changeIssue 
hierarchy No. Material issue Indicator aspect
Core
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22-
A2 Resource use 
B8 Community investment 
B3 Development and training 
A3 The Environment and 
Natural Resources 
A2 Resource use 
B5 Supply Chain 
Management 
B8 Community Investment 
B8 Community Investment 
B1 Employment 
Important RegularEnsure energy supply 
Resource recycling and reuse
Support eradication of poverty 
Employee training and career 
development 
Biodiversity and land use
Water resource management 
Responsible supply chain 
Community communication and 
development 
Taxation & job creation 
Diversity and equal opportunityRisk management and operation 
compliance
Invest in new energy 
Respond to climate change 
Research and innovation 
Occupational health and safety 
Pollution and emissions control
Improve corporate governance 
Business ethics and anti-
corruption
Improve the quality of products 
and services 
Accelerate intelligent 
transformation 
Respect human rights 
Promote energy transition Materiality Analysis
In 2020, we continued carrying out the identiﬁcation, evaluation 
and screening of sustainability issues to focus on issues that are 
signiﬁcant both to us and to our stakeholders, and focused our 
information disclosure in response in this report.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation24 25
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietySinopec Corp. is committed to vigorously implementing an 
innovation-driven strategy, promoting comprehensive innovation 
centred around technological innovation, optimising institutional 
mechanism that conforms to the law of innovation, and striving to 
build a technology-leading enterprise.
 Deepening Structural Reform 
The Company continued to implement the reform of its technology 
management system, and optimised the long-term mechanism 
for the continuous growth of technological investment focusing 
on its key business segments. In 2020, the Company strove to 
improve its independent innovation capabilities and launched the 
Science Reform Demonstration Programme as a pilot programme 
to further deepen the reform of technology management system. 
The Sinopec Ningbo New Materials Institute ofﬁcially has already 
started operating, and the construction of the Sinopec Guangdong 
New Materials Institute is underway as planned. Moreover, the 
Company also organised the second company-wide innovation 
and entrepreneurship competition, and strove to develop its 
own technology incubator by establishing innovation incubation 
platform companies in directly afﬁliated research institute, and 
exploring dividend and other incentive mechanisms for technology 
enterprises.
Strengthening Research on Key Technologies
In the past 30 years, the Company has already successfully 
completed the development and application of a total of 192 major 
complete sets of technologies across the value chain, providing 
a strong support for promoting industrial upgrading. In 2020, the 
Company continued to promote the “Ten-Dragon” joint research 
model, and successfully completed 14 key research projects in 
the ﬁelds of oil and gas exploration and development technology, 
oil reﬁning technology, chemical material technology, and public 
technology.
In 2020, the Company focused on giving greater support and 
incentives for basic research, developed and released the Sinopec 
Implementation Provisions for the Management of Basic Research Projects, and kicked off a number of research projects on cutting-
edge technologies in ﬁelds such as molecular chemical engineering, 
optoelectronic materials, and artiﬁcial intelligence.
Enhancing External Cooperation
The Company took active measures to integrate into the global 
innovation network and enhance its own technological innovation 
capabilities through open cooperation. As of the end of 2020, the 
Company had joined the International Synthetic Rubber Association 
(IISRP), the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) and other 
international academic organisations and relevant events. The 
Company has also set up overseas R&D centres to communicate 
and cooperate with local enterprises on research and technological 
support. Moreover, the Company further expanded the technical 
exchanges and cooperation with internationally renowned 
universities, research institutions and enterprises, supporting 
its technology-leading development through joint research 
programmes, joint training of research talents, and other forms of 
cooperation.
Technological Innovation
Indicators
Number of patent applications ﬁled in the year
Number of patent applications granted in the year 
Cumulative number of patents granted globally 
R&D investment (RMB 100 million)2018
6,074
4,434
30,365
128.82019
6,160
4,076
34,441
155.392020
6,808
4,254
38,050
152SDGs SDGs Sinopec Corp. Actions Sinopec Corp. ActionsSDGs Mapping Table 
We strictly forbid the use of child labour and forced labour, and forbid 
any form of discrimination such as due to gender, region, religion and 
nationality. We strive to further increase the diversity at our workplace, 
such as in gender and ethnicity, and fully ensure equal opportunities 
for employees.   
We actively cooperate with the development of the new energy 
vehicle industry and accelerated the construction of new energy 
vehicle charging and swapping facilities and hydrogen refuelling 
stations. We invested RMB 100 million to build village roads in 
Dongshan County, Gansu Province. 
We kept optimising HSSE management to ensure workplace safety, 
occupational health and environmental compliance. There was no 
occurrence of major safety accident or environmental emergency 
in 2020. We worked together with our suppliers to promoted green 
procurement and responsible procurement, and disclosed our 
sustainability performance in our annual sustainability report to 
improve transparency.
We kicked-off the research on the strategic path towards carbon peak 
and carbon neutral in order to formulate our low-carbon development 
strategy and roadmap. We carried out the “near zero emission” 
pilot projects, developed and promoted carbon emission reduction 
technologies, and strengthened the monitoring and management of 
greenhouse gas emissions. We strive to reduce our carbon footprint 
and contribute to the national carbon neutral goal through a variety of 
approaches, such as carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS) 
and forestry carbon sinks and other carbon removal technologies.
We conducted site visits to enterprises along the Yangtze River, the 
Yellow River and other key river basins to protect the environment of 
the river systems. We maintained our membership in the Alliance to 
End Plastic Waste (AEPW) to protect the marine environment and 
marine life. We took meticulous measures to prevent oil spill accidents 
at sea, recycle and reuse more wastewater, and fully comply with all 
compliance criteria for afﬂuents.
We required all new and under-construction projects to pass 
environmental impact assessment ﬁrst, identify the eco-environmental 
sensitivity of projects to avoid eco-sensitive areas. We also 
conducted ecological environmental environment assessment for 
decommissioned facilities, and carried out ecological restoration work 
if needed.
We continued improving compliance management to ensure business 
integrity, and implemented a “zero tolerance” policy for corruption and 
violations of business ethics to eradicate all forms of corruption. We 
also urged our suppliers and contractors to strengthen their safety 
management and environmental protection efforts.
We continuously supported UN Global Compact and other global 
initiatives; actively participated in international organisations and 
trade associations, and promoted research collaboration. We also 
continued investing in e-commerce platforms such as EPEC and 
Sinopec Chememall to achieve win-win development of the industrial 
chain.We vigorously supported targeted poverty alleviation by dispatching 
1,945 designated poverty alleviation volunteers and providing 
RMB141 million in poverty alleviation ﬁnancial support. All of our 
eight designated poverty alleviation counties were lifted out of 
poverty.
We supported the development of specialty agriculture in poverty-
stricken areas. Over 10,000 mu of quinoa were grown in Dongxiang 
County, Gansu Province, which generated higher income for 2,149 
farming households, including over 1,600 low-income households.
We protected the health and safety of our employees, and there 
was no occurrence of clustering Covid-19 infection within the 
Company during the pandemic. We provide all employees with 
occupational disease screenings, and established the Sinopec 
mental health (EAP) committee to promote the physical and mental 
health of our employees.  We adjusted and increased our capacities 
to supply materials for medical supplies to provide material support 
for the ﬁght against the pandemic and better protect the health of 
our customers and the public.
We provided a variety of trainings for our employees, totalling 
1,259,800 person-times in 2020, and maintained a 100% vocational 
training coverage rate. We donated RMB 89.63 million to upgrade 
educational facilities in our targeted poverty areas. Our Sinopec 
Scholarship programme provided ﬁnancial aid to a total of 1,560 
students from low-income families.
We uphold gender equality and has established the Female 
Employees Committee to protect the rights of female employees. 
We strive to eliminate gender discrimination in recruiting and 
promotion, and encourage female employees to participate in 
democratic management of the enterprise. We pay attention to the 
needs of female employees during pregnancy and maternity, as 
well as the physical and mental health of female employees.
We set annual water consumption targets and committed to 
reducing our annual industrial fresh water withdrawal by 1% or 
greater year-on-year. To achieve this, we optimised water sourcing 
strategy to replace the use of fresh water with unconventional 
water resources. We invested over RMB 67 million to upgrade 
water facilities in Dongxiang County to bring tap water to villages in 
Dongxiang County, Gansu Province.
We actively invested in new energy businesses to increase the 
share of natural gas and other clean energy in our energy supplies, 
with natural gas accounting 41% of oil and gas production in 2020. 
The total production capacity of our high purity hydrogen generation 
unit reached 9,000 kg per day, and our bio-jet fuel capacity reached 
100,000 tonnes per year. 
We strive to support local economic development through investing, 
paying taxes, creating jobs and increasing localised procurement. 
In 2020, we generated over 1,400 job opportunities for migrant 
workers and new recruits from previous employment history. We 
also actively recruited female employees, overseas employees and 
minority employees to ensure equal employment opportunities. 
We invested RMB 15.2 billion in R&D and obtained 4,254 patents 
both at home and abroad in 2020. We have built six intelligent 
factories, and piloted digitalised and contact-free intelligent gas 
stations in nearly 20,000 Sinopec service stations.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation26 27
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietySinopec Corp. vigorously explored solutions to solve the “white pollution” problem, 
and became the ﬁrst Chinese company to join the Alliance to End Plastic Waste 
(AEPW). The Company intensiﬁed its research in the ﬁeld of biodegradable 
materials. After independently developed the material preparation technology for 
PBAT and PBST, the Company successfully realised the industrial production of 
PBSA biodegradable plastic in October 2020.Triple Successes in the Field of Biodegradable Materials material
  Yizheng Chemical Fibre started production of new biodegradable plastic PBSA
  PBSA, a new biodegradable plastic materialTerms and Tips:
PBST and PBAT are copolymerised thermoplastic biodegradable plastics 
processed on the basis of PBT (polybutylene terephthalate, one of the ﬁve major 
engineering plastics). They are widely used in making plastic ﬁlm, shopping bags, 
garbage bags, etc. Other than biodegradable, they can also be disposed by 
composting.
Compared with PBST and PBAT, PBSA (polybutylene succinate adipate) has 
lower melting point, faster crystallisation and higher ﬂuidity. It can be used in 3D 
printing and as materials for making medical supplies and ﬁlm and bags.Digital and Intelligent Transformation 
At present, information technology has penetrated 
into various ﬁelds of economy and social life, and 
the mode of promoting economic development has 
expanded from providing physical products and 
services to providing information products and services. 
Sinopec Corp. vigorously built new infrastructure such 
as data centres, Internet of Things, and industrial 
Internet. With the new model of “data + platform + 
application”, the Company vigorously accelerated 
the digital transformation of the industry and strove 
to comprehensively accelerate the digitalisation in 
the ﬁelds of operation management, production, and 
service management through nimble, efﬁcient, stable 
and reliable information technology support and two 
digital services platforms.
Intelligent plant
Intelligent oil and gas ﬁelds 
Intelligent service stationsCompleted the construction of six intelligent plants, realising integrated 
optimisation, ﬁne-managed production, and intelligent management 
through digital transformation.
Completed the pilot upgrade project of intelligent oil and gas ﬁeld in 
Sinopec Northwest Oil Field Company.
Initiated the implementation of intelligent oil and gas ﬁeld in three 
locations, including Sinopec Northwest, Shengli Offshore and Jianghan 
Fuling, and completed the implementation of seven major applications, 
such as dynamic management of oil and gas reserves, single well 
management, etc.
Launched pilot programmes in areas such as safety and environmental 
protection, and shale gas production, further improving the efﬁciency and 
proﬁtability of exploration and development operations.
Offered station-level integrated system with core functions at close to 
20,000 service stations, and launched mobile Apps such as EasyJoy 
Refuelling, Sinopec Wallet, aiming at exploring touch-free consumption 
scenarios and improving customer experience. 
Realised automatic license plate recognition and digital marketing through 
technologies such as big data and artiﬁcial intelligence, further promotes 
the development of a diversiﬁed business ecosystem. Target:
By 2025, develop an upgraded version of the 
intelligent plant, and implement it in over 10 
reﬁning and chemical subsidiaries.
Target:
By 2025, develop upgraded versions of intelligent 
oil and gas ﬁelds, and implement them in six oil 
and gas ﬁeld subsidiaries.
Target:
Develop multiple intelligent application scenarios 
focusing on the ecosystem of “people, vehicles 
and life”, support integrated and cross-functional 
development.  The Sky Eye aerial surveillance system uses UAVs for monitoring oil 
      and gas production in winterCase
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation28 29
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
Society02
In September 2020, the Chinese government announced for the ﬁrst 
time to strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve 
carbon neutrality by 2060. Sinopec Corp. is committed to building a 
world leading clean energy and chemical company. In the context 
of carbon peaking and carbon neutrality target, we will adhere 
to the integration of the carbon reduction process and business 
transformation and upgrading, and the coordination of structural 
optimisation with carbon emission control. After a thorough and 
systematic research, we have proposed our “net zero” target as the 
ultimate goal to promote the clean transformation of fossil energy, 
the scale-up of clean energy, and low-carbon production and 
operation, so as to ensure to peak our carbon dioxide emissions 
before the national carbon peaking target, and strive to achieve 
carbon neutrality by 2050, making new contributions to addressing 
global climate change.Addressing 
Climate Change
Management of Climate Actions
Energy Saving and Emission Reduction
Energy Transition
Optimising Energy StructureReviewing climate change 
related development plans, 
policies and reports, and making 
recommendations to the Board; 
identifying, assessing and 
managing important investment 
and operation issues related 
to climate change, establishing 
an appropriate and effective 
climate risk management system; 
Reviewing and supervising 
development plans for natural gas 
and renewable energy, and the 
development of the Company’s 
energy structure.Strategy Committee
Audit CommitteeSinopec Carbon Emission 
Peaking and Carbon Neutrality 
Task Force
Comprehensive Risk 
Management Implementation 
Leading GroupConducting research on peaking 
carbon emissions and achieving 
carbon neutrality strategic path, 
and formulating Sinopec’s carbon 
peaking and carbon neutrality 
strategy, targets, roadmaps and 
implementation measures.
Identifying risks and opportunities 
related to climate change and 
relevant countermeasures 
under the comprehensive risk 
management system, and 
reporting to the Board or the Audit 
Committee.Headquarters departments 
and subsidiaries
Implementing the Company’s 
carbon peaking and carbon 
neutrality strategies, formulating 
department/enterprise level 
carbon peak and carbon 
neutrality targets and action 
plans to continuously reduce CO2 
emissions.
Board of Directors Management level Implementation level
2014.6Launched the Energy Efﬁciency 
Improvement Plan
2018.4 Launched the Green Enterprise Campaign
2020.11Initiated the research on strategy of 
peaking carbon emissions and achieving 
carbon neutrality
2021.1Signed the Declaration of Achieving Peak 
Carbon Emissions and Carbon Neutrality 
of China Petroleum and Chemical Industry  
2021.3Proposed to peak carbon dioxide emissions 
before the national carbon peaking target and 
to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.Green and Low-carbon Strategy
The Company ﬁrmly abides by the new development concept, 
vigorously implements the green and low-carbon development 
strategy, promotes the clean transformation of fossil energy, the 
scale-up of clean energy, and low-carbon production and operation. 
Taking “net zero” emission of carbon as the ultimate goal, the 
Company vigorously promoted energy conservation and emission 
reduction, and continuously enhanced its green and low-carbon 
competitiveness. In 2020, the Company carried out “near-zero” 
emission pilots in Yanshan Petrochemical, Jinling Petrochemical, 
Jinan Reﬁnery and Changling Reﬁnery. In the future, Sinopec 
Corp. will formulate its carbon peaking and carbon neutral strategy, 
targets, road map, as well as detailed action plans, accelerate the 
technological innovation and industrialisation of advanced energy, 
such as hydrogen, and advanced decarbonising technologies, 
such as CCUS, and formulate low-carbon industry protocols and 
technical standards, and promote the low-carbon transformation of 
the industry.Ultimate Goal
Commitments 
and Initiatives•  Achieve “net zero” of carbon emissions
•  Promote clean and low-carbon transition 
   of energy structure
•  Accelerate technological research and  
   development
•  Signiﬁcantly increase the intensity of 
   green and low-carbon investment
•  Improve supply capacity of high-end 
   petrochemical products
•  Vigorously improve energy efﬁciency
•  Accelerate the deployment of carbon 
   dioxide capture and utilisation
Risk Management 
Policy and legal risk
The Chinese government has announced to peak carbon 
emission by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. 
Regulators will adopt more stringent measures to limit 
greenhouse gas emissions, which may reduce the demand 
for fossil fuels.
China will implement a quota system for carbon emissions. 
Most of the Company’s subsidiaries are expected to be 
included as key emission units in the national carbon 
emission trading market, which may increase the 
Company’s carbon emission costs for compliance.
Restrictions on the access of high-energy-consuming and 
high-carbon-intensity products may cause some products 
or equipment to be gradually phased out.
Technology risk
Technological innovation during the transition to a low-
carbon and energy-saving economy will increase the 
Company’s R&D costs, as well as the investment in clean 
energy, new energy and emission reduction technologies.
Market risk
Consumers’ concern about climate change and 
sustainability may persuade them to prefer low-carbon 
products, thereby reducing the demand for traditional 
energy products with high carbon emission intensity.
Reputation risk
Stakeholders pay greater attention to the Company’s 
climate strategy and energy transition, which may result in 
a negative impact on the Company’s image if they fail to 
meet the stakeholders’ expectations. Acute risk
Increasing frequency of extreme weather events such 
as hurricanes and ﬂoods may cause the Company’s 
production capacity to decline due to production 
shutdowns, transportation difﬁculties, and supply chain 
interruptions, and reduce the Company’s proﬁtability.
Sudden natural disasters are prone to trigger secondary 
production accidents, causing major economic losses to 
the Company and heavy human casualties.
Chronic risk
Changes in rainfall and extreme ﬂuctuations in weather 
patterns may cause the Company’s construction costs to 
increase (such as due to extended construction period, 
damaged equipment, etc.); insurance costs for equipment 
and personnel may increase.
An increase or decrease in the average temperature 
may increase the Company’s operating costs, such as 
an increase in equipment cooling water demand, and an 
increase in ofﬁce cooling and heating requirements.
Physical risksTransition risksClimate-related Risks and Impacts
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation32 33
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
Society
In this report, the Company disclosed its management policies, 
actions and progresses in addressing climate change in accordance 
with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Climate Governance
Addressing climate change is an important factor for the Board and 
the Strategy Committee of the Company to take into consideration 
before making decisions on development strategies and major 
investments. To improve the effectiveness of addressing climate 
change, the Company has established a management system and 
organisational structure related to climate actions\ covering both the 
functional departments at the headquarters and its subsidiaries.Management of Climate ActionsOpportunities
For Sinopec Corp., climate change means not only risks and challenges, but also opportunities for transformation and development. The 
Company will seize the development opportunities brought by climate change, vigorously expand the natural gas business, focus on the 
development of the hydrogen energy industry chain, promote the steady development of new energy businesses such as photovoltaic power 
generation and biomass fuel, accelerate the deployment of supporting facilities for new energy vehicles such as hydrogen refuelling stations and 
recharging stations, and actively explore new businesses and new products. The Company owns a number of CCUS technologies covering the 
entire industrial chain and has started the industrial application of these technologies, with the ambition to market relevant commercial services 
to industry customers after meeting its own carbon reduction targets in the future.
Indicators and Targets  
The Company has set the following greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets in the Green Enterprise Campaign:
The Company proposed the ambitious goal to peak its carbon dioxide emissions before the national carbon peaking target, and to achieve 
carbon neutrality by 2050.
Indicators
GHGs emission (million tonnes CO2-equivalent) 
Direct
Indirect
Oil & gas exploration and production segment
Reﬁning and chemicals segment
Marketing segment
CO2 capture (thousand tonnes)
Methane recovery (million cubic metres)
In 2020, the Company’s GHGs emissions increased by over 4 million tonnes of CO2-equivalent due to the partial injection of Baling Petrochemical Assets Corporation into Sinopec Corp. 
Taking 2018 as the base year, by 2023, the Company planned to realise:
500,000
tons of CO2 captured per year 12.6
million tonnes of CO2-emission reduced0.2
bcm of methane recovered per year
Oil & gas exploration and 
production segment
Reﬁning and chemicals segment
Marketing segment245.98
23.75
13.83
2020
Methane emission 
(million cubic metres) 283.56
2018
171.52
128.57
42.95
31.26
137.65
2.61
1,010
2262019
170.69
125.68
45.01
23.18
144.93
2.58
1,263
3972020
170.94
128.58
42.36
24.42
144.32
2.20
1,290
600The Company actively followed the change of domestic and abroad 
climate change policies, and regularly optimised its carbon emission 
management system to ﬁt actual conditions, and formulated a 
number of management policies to strengthen the monitoring and 
management of greenhouse gas emissions, such as the Sinopec 
Carbon Emission Management Measures, the Sinopec Carbon 
Emission Trading Management Measures and the Sinopec Carbon 
Emission Information Disclosure Management Measures. The 
Company also adopted targeted emission reduction measures, 
and used CCUS, forestry carbon sinks and other carbon removal 
technologies to reduce carbon footprint and contribute to achieving 
the carbon neutrality target of China.Energy Saving and Emission Reduction
Carbon Emission Monitoring and Management
In 2020, the Company continued to carry out carbon inventory audit 
and carbon veriﬁcation in all production units and subsidiaries. The 
Company’s total annual greenhouse gas emissions reached 170.94 
million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
Formulated the Sinopec Carbon 
Emission Management Measures to 
specify carbon emission statistics, 
emission reduction, trading and other 
procedures, and carried out annual 
audits and internal inspections of the 
carbon emission data of subsidiaries 
to fully understand the speciﬁc carbon 
emissions situation of the Company.
Established and launched a carbon 
asset management information 
system, and optimised its accounting 
modules during the year to improve the 
efﬁciency of data collection; completed 
the group-wide carbon audit and carbon 
veriﬁcation of all devices, laying a solid 
foundation for formulating emission 
control measures.In accordance with domestic and 
international greenhouse gas emission 
accounting standards, including 
ISO14064-1: 2006 standards, China 
Oil and Gas Production Enterprises 
Greenhouse Gas Emission Accounting 
Methods and Reporting Guidelines, 
and China Petrochemical Enterprise 
Greenhouse Gas Emission Accounting 
Methods and Reporting Guidelines.
Direct greenhouse gas emissions 
(Scope 1) and indirect (energy) 
greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 
have already been included in the scope 
of the audit process. The Company has 
not included the identiﬁcation, audit 
and veriﬁcation of emission sources of 
other indirect (value chain) greenhouse 
gas emissions (Scope 3), but has 
established a product carbon footprint 
calculation and evaluation method to 
calculate the carbon footprint of four 
oil products, including jet fuel, lubricant 
base oil, polypropylene, and PX.Management 
Measures
Management 
StandardsManagement 
system
Management 
Scope
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation34 35
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyCarbon Capture, Utilisation and Storage (CCUS)
The Company attached great importance to CCUS technology, continued to optimise the economy, safety 
and energy consumption performance of CCUS technology in the implementation process, and actively 
integrated the upstream and downstream resources of the industrial chain to conducts large-scale and low 
energy consumption CCUS demonstration projects in oilﬁeld and reﬁnery subsidiaries.
Continued to capture and utilise high-concentration CO2 emitted from ammonia synthesis devices. In 
2020, our reﬁnery subsidiaries captured 1.29 million tonnes of CO2, reaching a cumulative total of 5 
million tonnes of captured CO2.  Researched on carbon dioxide capture technology, accelerated the experimental research and 
application of new CO2 capture technologies such as membrane absorption, membrane separation, 
ionic liquids and other methods, as well as CO2 capture and transportation processes, to develop carbon 
capture technologies.
Continued to carry out CO2 ﬂooding projects, injecting CO2 into oil reservoirs to improve oil recovery 
rate and realise CO2 storage at the same time. In 2020, our oil ﬁeld subsidiaries injected 298 thousand 
tonnes of CO2 for oil displacement, reaching a cumulative total of 3.97 million tonnes of CO2 injected 
underground for ﬂooding.
The Company’s East China branch and Nanhua Company 
jointly launched CCUS demonstration projects over the entire 
industrial chain in Jiangsu Province, exploring the use of 
carbon dioxide tail gas recovered from chemical plants for oil 
displacement in oilﬁeld, so as to realise the comprehensive 
utilisation of carbon dioxide resources within the Company.
• Completed the construction of two sets of carbon dioxide tail 
gas capture and recovery devices with an annual processing capacity of 100 thousand tonnes per year in accordance with 
the carbon dioxide emissions of reﬁnery subsidiaries and the oil 
displacement needs of oilﬁelds in Jiangsu. All recovered tail gas 
is used for oil displacement. With this independently developed oil 
displacement technology, we successfully realised the integrated 
management of the entire industrial chain of “tail gas capture - 
puriﬁcation - oil displacement - storage”.
Technological R&D
Oil ﬁelds
Reﬁneries  
Developing CCUS Demonstration ModelsMethane Recovery and Emissions 
The Company continued to improve the monitoring, veriﬁcation and 
reporting system for methane emissions, incorporated methane 
emissions into the scope of carbon emissions with reference to the 
ISO14064 standards, and formulated methane emission control 
measures to promote methane emission reduction, recovering and 
utilisation in different business segment. In 2020, the Company’s 
methane emissions reached 283.56 million cubic metres, ﬂare 
Methane Emissions Control Measures
Expanded the scope of vented natural gas recovery, improved low-pressure natural gas management, and 
used low-pressure condensing systems to recover vent air to reduce natural gas escape.
Fully adopted airtight mixed transportation technology, and intensiﬁed the management of leakage. 
Required inspection, maintenance and equipment commissioning to be scheduled in advance to minimise 
the amount of natural gas vented during the operation.
Recovered 600 million cubic metres of methane in oilﬁeld subsidiaries, which was equivalent to reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions by about 9 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent.
Paid greater attention to the smooth operation of equipment to reduce abnormal ﬂuctuations and 
unscheduled shutdowns, so as to avoid venting the torch under emergency shutdown; and conducted leak 
detection and maintenance of the vent valves of the equipment torch.
Examined the operation of the gas tank and the discharge of the torch, and required thorough equipment 
inspection to ensure smooth operation of the equipment and the effective recovering of methane.
Almost achieved the “zero torching” target for chemical subsidiaries. New devices were built in 
accordance to the plan to maximise torch gas recovery. The venting of the torch system was only used 
as a safety guarantee for the incineration treatment of the exhaust gas that cannot be recovered or under 
emergencies.
Performed strict safety inspections on CNG (compressed natural gas) tube bundle trucks and LNG 
(liqueﬁed natural gas) tanker trucks in accordance with the operating procedures after their arrival at the 
stations and before their departure to ensure there was no leakage.
Installed intelligent GPS systems on all self-owned natural gas transportation vehicles, ensured the 
operating procedures were strictly followed during loading and unloading, used video surveillance and 
special inspections and other measures to prevent abnormal leakage due to improper operations.
During the sales process of CNG and LNG, the ﬁlling, return hose and valves all needed to be checked to 
ensure they were in good conditions and could function properly. All ﬁlling hoses were equipped with break 
valves to effectively reduce the risk of escape.Business Segment
Exploration and 
development
Reﬁning and 
chemicals
Marketing and 
distributionburning volume reached 180.57 million cubic metres. A total of 600 
million cubic metres of methane was recovered throughout the year, 
increased by 51.1% year-on-year, which is equivalent to reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions by about 9 million tonnes carbon dioxide 
equivalent.
Case
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation36 37
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyCarbon Trading
Sinopec Corp. actively participates in China’s carbon emission market trading pilot programmes. 
The Company has coordinated the participation in pilot programmes and the national carbon trading 
management to accumulate market experience, and formulated appropriate trading plans and 
strategies in accordance with the requirements of the new national carbon market. As of the end of 
2020, a total of 14 subsidiaries of the Company had participated in carbon trading pilot programmes. 
The participating enterprises formulated fulﬁlment plans and trading plans each year , and completed 
their fulﬁlment of annual carbon quota on time, actively using the quota deduction policy of the China 
Certiﬁed Emission Reduction (CCER) mechanism to reduce the cost of fulﬁlment. 
Greening and Carbon Sinks 
The Company followed the government initiative on greening and integrated the greening initiative 
with the efforts to build a green and environmentally friendly enterprise and increase the vegetation 
coverage on campus. The Company also encouraged employees to participate in voluntary tree 
planting, so as to promote greater coverage of forest to utilise both the carbon sinks and the 
ecological improvement effect of forest.
2019 2020Number of subsidiaries 
participates in 
carbon trading pilot 
programmes 
14 14
Total amount of carbon 
emission traded (10,000 
tonnes)
2019 2020Total value of carbon 
trading transactions 
(RMB 10,000)
4,957 4,885
Enterprise greening Voluntary tree planting
116.474
million square metres of green area 
in total, among which
17,000 
tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent can be sequestered 
estimated by the number of trees planted1.703
million trees planted during the year, an increase of 
243,000 trees over 2019
1.829
million square metres of green area 
was newly built or renovated during 
the yearGreen area rate (excluding areas 
under construction) reached 
27.7%
Green coverage rate reached
30.6%Improving Energy Efﬁciency
With the goal of “strictly controlling total energy consumption and 
improving energy efﬁciency”, Sinopec Corp. vigorously implemented 
the Energy Efﬁciency Improvement Plan, continuously optimised 
its own energy use structure, and intensiﬁed the promotion of 
innovation and application of energy-saving technologies. In 2020, 
the Company implemented a total of 2,892 energy-saving projects, 
achieving a total energy saving of 4.58 million tons of standard coal.
Strictly implemented the requirements on 
controlling both total energy consumption 
and energy intensity, signed annual 
energy and environmental responsibility 
commitment with business units and 
subsidiaries, strengthened process 
inspection and early warning, carried 
out quarterly reviews and year-end 
assessment to ensure that the annual 
energy efﬁciency goals were met.Established energy management 
systems at key energy-consuming 
subsidiaries, promoted energy 
management informatisation, and 
established overall energy management 
solutions in reﬁning and chemical 
subsidiaries; carried out energy 
efﬁciency benchmarking to ensure 
continuous improvement of energy 
efﬁciency.
Organised business segments to 
develop showcases of mature and 
applicable energy-saving technologies, 
and accelerated the R&D on new 
energy-saving technologies, new 
catalysts and new equipment to provide 
technical support for energy efﬁciency 
improvement.Carried out energy audit and energy 
saving supervision to improve energy 
conservation management at the 
subsidiary level; strengthened the post-
evaluation of energy conservation 
performance of ﬁxed asset investment 
projects, and urged subsidiaries to 
manage energy consumption from the 
source.
Measures 
to Improve 
Energy 
Efﬁciency
Sinopec Zhenhai Reﬁning & Chemical Co. continued to promote the digital transformation of 
energy management. It developed and implemented an energy management information system 
in accordance with the new model of “data + platform + application”. The system allows for the 
visualised full-process management of energy. With the new system, Sinopec Zhenhai Reﬁning 
& Chemical Co. was able to identify weaknesses and energy saving potentials through the 
comprehensive monitoring and big data analysis of steam pipe networks, heating furnaces and 
other equipment, and formulate and implement rectiﬁcation measures accordingly to optimise 
operation management and improve its overall energy efﬁciency.
Sinopec Zhenhai Reﬁning & Chemical Co.’s case, Integrating SMES into the ISO 50001 System 
for Energy Efﬁciency Improvement, was awarded the CEM Insight Award for Leadership in 
Energy Management at the 11th International Ministerial Conference on Clean Energy (CEM).Digitalising Energy Management0.490 
tons of standard coal/
RMB 10,000 
Setting energy 
efﬁciency goals
Energy efﬁciency 
management
Energy efﬁciency 
audit and 
supervisionEnergy-saving 
technology 
application
Case
2019 2020202189Comprehensive energy 
consumption per 
RMB 10,000 output
0.85% year-on-yearDecreased by In year 2020
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation38 39
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyEnergy 
Transition
The Company closely followed global 
energy development trends, and 
commissioned the Sinopec Economic 
and Technological Research Institute 
to conduct research on China’s 
energy structure and prepare the 
China Energy and Chemical Industry 
Development Report each year. The 
report also made forecast on future 
energy needs based on China’s 
carbon peaking and carbon neutral 
targets.
2018
27.678
392019
29.673
412020
30.369
412021 Target
34.100
44
Percentage of fossil energy (%)
Percentage of coal (%) Percentage of oil (%) Percentage of natural gas (%)Demand for primary energy (100 million 
tons of standard coal)Percentage of non-fossil energy (%)
  Guangzhou Petrochemical technicians conducted high-pressure testing of a hydrogen compressor   Sinopec Corp. President Ma Yongsheng visiting the Puguang gas ﬁeld of Sinopec Zhongyuan Oilﬁeld Co.
  Unloading operation at Tianjin LNG terminal Note: Data from China Energy and Chemical Industry Development Report.Indicator
Natural gas production (BCM)
Proportion of domestic natural gas to oil 
and gas equivalent (%)Natural Gas 
Natural gas is a fossil energy with low 
carbon emission intensity. In the context 
of promoting the achievement of carbon 
neutrality, natural gas will play a key role 
in the process of energy transition. The 
Company adhered to the strategic plan to 
promote the development of natural gas 
business, coordinated natural gas resources 
and markets, promoted the development the 
entire natural gas industrial chain system, 
and further increased the proportion of 
natural gas in domestic primary energy 
consumption. In 2020, the Company’s 
natural gas output reached 30.4 bcm, 
increased by 2.3% year-on-year. The 
planned natural gas output in 2021 is 34.1 
bcm, increased by 12.2% year-on-year.
2020 202584.3 81.2
2020 2025
56.7
51.3
2020 202519.1 18.9
2020 20258.5 11
2020 202549.3953.78
2020 202515.718.8
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation40 41
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyIn the next ﬁve years, Sinopec Corp. will accelerate the development 
of new energy business with hydrogen energy as the core. Focusing 
on hydrogen-powered transportation and green hydrogen reﬁning, 
the Company will vigorously promote the rapid development of 
the whole industrial chain of hydrogen, intensify the cooperation 
with industry leaders in the ﬁelds of new energy and hydrogen 
manufacturing,  plan to deploy 1,000 hydrogen refuelling stations or 
oil and hydrogen stations, striving to become the largest hydrogen 
company in China, as well as an industry leader in promoting the 
commercial application of hydrogen.
Hydrogen 
Hydrogen is one of the key pathways to achieve 
a clean and low-carbon global energy structure. 
With rich industrial experience and competitive 
advantages of hydrogen business, Sinopec Corp. 
takes hydrogen as a main focus of its new energy 
business and leveraged its industrial, technological 
and network advantages to develop hydrogen 
energy through independent innovation, cooperative 
development and strategic investment. The 
Company has already developed an integrated and 
coordinated operation model of hydrogen business 
covering production, transportation, technology, and 
investment of hydrogen, forming a whole-process 
hydrogen energy industrial chain from production, 
puriﬁcation, transportation and marketing.
  Refuelling a hydrogen energy vehicle
Annual hydrogen production 
capacity reached 
3.5 million tons per yearOver14%of domestic 
production capacityZhangjiakou City, Hebei Province is one of the venues for the 
2022 Beijing Winter Olympics. Hydrogen fuel cell vehicles 
will be used as service vehicle during the Winter Olympics. 
In 2020, Sinopec Corp. took the lead in participating in the 
Phase 1 construction project of the hydrogen energy support 
system in Zhangjiakou, and has completed the construction 
of three hydrogen refuelling stations. The hydrogen refuelling 
stations will not only provide hydrogen refuelling services for the 
Winter Olympics, but also play a role in the development plan 
of Zhangjiakou to become a ﬁrst-class hydrogen energy city in 
China.
Hydrogen Energy Vehicles Support System for 
the Winter OlympicsCaseAnnual hydrogen production capacity reached approximately 3.5 million tonnes per year, accounting for more than 14% of the 
domestic production capacity.
Owns the world’s second largest transportation infrastructure network with over 30,000 service stations, which is a strong competitive 
advantage for developing the hydrogen industrial chain. The Company has already built 10 oil and hydrogen service stations in 
Guangdong, Shanghai, Zhejiang, Henan and other regions. 
Built three sets of high-purity hydrogen puriﬁcation equipment in Yanshan Petrochemical, Guangzhou Petrochemical and Gaoqiao 
Petrochemical, producing 99.999% purity hydrogen products with a total capacity of 9,000 kg/day.
Researched and drafted the national standard for the research of oil and hydrogen service station, which was under review currently; 
Completed the construction of a hydrogen analysis and testing laboratory for fuel cells, which had obtained the national CMA 
certiﬁcation.
Cooperated with other companies to explore the electrolysis hydrogen production technology and applications.
Biomass Energy
The Company actively promoted the development of biofuels and strengthened 
the production, promotion and supply of biomass energy.
Developing Charging and Swapping Stations
The Company attached great importance to the development of 
new energy vehicles and vigorously developed supporting facilities 
for new energy vehicles such as charging stations and hydrogen 
refuelling stations, and promoted the steady development of 
the charging and swapping business. As of the end of 2020, the 
Company has built 281 charging and swapping stations and 984 
charging piles nationwide. As of the end of 2020Developed capacity for bio-jet fuel 
production, which uses renewable 
resources such as kitchen waste 
grease, animal grease and vegetable 
oils to produce bio-jet fuel, with a 
production capacity of 100,000 tonnes 
per year.Continued to expand the supply of 
biodiesel in Shanghai, increased the 
blending capacity of B5 biodiesel to 
over 400,000 tonnes per year, and the 
fuel was provided to over 240 service 
stations in Shanghai.Sold 14.75 million tons of ethanol 
gasoline in 2020.Bio-jet fuel Biodiesel Ethanol gasoline
 Providing fast charging service to new energy taxis at Sinopec charging stations281charging and swapping stations and 
984charging piles built nationwide
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation42 43
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
Societythe Company’s coal consumption for power generation 
decreased by
1.66 
grams of standard coal/kWh year-on-year
and standard coal consumption for heating decreased by 
0.30
kg/GJ year-on-year
As a mega-sized energy and chemical enterprise, Sinopec Corp. 
is not only a major energy producer but also a major energy 
consumer. The Company continued to promote transition to a clean 
and low-carbon development of energy structure, encouraged its 
subsidiaries to promote the consumption of new energy sources 
such as solar and wind energy based on their business segment, 
and gradually reduced the use of coal, accelerating the march 
towards the “net zero emissions” target. Promote New Energy Use
4.011 
million kWh of 
photovoltaic power was 
generated in 2020increased by 41.3% year-on-yearUpstream segment
Promoted the transition from diesel fuel 
to electricity and natural gas, promoted 
the utilisation of new energy such as 
geothermal, solar, and wind energy to 
replace coal, fuel oil or gas boilers for 
heating supplies, built distributed power 
supply systems, and promoted the clean 
transition of the energy structure.Reﬁning and chemical segment
Promoted the utilisation of waste heat 
in steam and power generation for 
heating to improve energy utilisation; 
Implemented cross-supply of steam and 
power to achieve complementary and 
shared thermal power resources; and 
used vacant space to develop distributed 
photovoltaic power generation.Marketing segment
Implemented the Thousand Stations with 
Solar Energy project and had built 205 
distributed photovoltaic power generation 
pilot projects in service stations with 
a total installed capacity of 8.88 MW, 
which is equivalent to reducing carbon 
emissions by about 12,000 tonnes of 
carbon dioxide equivalent.
 Shengli Oilﬁeld Gudao Plant uses solar automatic heating device to  boost 
green productionReducing Coal Use
The Company strengthened process control and encouraged the 
application of energy-saving technologies to improve the efﬁciency 
of coal-ﬁred boilers and meet requirements of the coal consumption 
standard for power generation. The Company also focused on 
energy efﬁciency improvement of coal-ﬁred power plants. Plant-level 
supervision information systems (SIS) was deployed to optimise the 
production process monitoring, performance calculation, operation 
optimisation, load distribution, performance testing and system 
management, so as to achieve system energy saving.
In 2020,Optimising Energy Structure
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation44 45
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
Society03
Building a harmonious relationship between man and nature and 
pursuing green development has become a broad consensus. Adhering 
to the concepts of green development and ecological civilisation, Sinopec 
Corp. is committed to promoting a green and low-carbon strategy and 
comprehensively optimising its environmental protection, including 
strengthening the environmental management system, implementing 
energy conservation and emission reduction, ensuring pollution 
prevention and control, improving energy and resource efﬁciency, 
strengthening land stewardship and protecting biodiversity. Considering 
the green and low-carbon development as the main characteristics of 
its high-quality development, Sinopec Corp will work together with its 
stakeholders to march on towards a low-carbon, green and sustainable 
future.
Environmental Management System
Green Enterprise Campaign
Atmospheric Pollutants Control
Solid Waste Management
Water Resource Management
Land Resource Management
Preventing Leak and Spill of Hydrocarbons
Biodiversity ProtectionEnvironmental 
ProtectionSinopec Corp. continued to improve its environmental management 
system. The Company vigorously promoted green and sustainable 
development by comprehensively measuring the environmental 
performance of its business operations, evaluating resource 
consumption trends, assessing discharges and emissions data, 
and strengthening the supervision, control and incentives over its 
subsidiaries regarding their environmental performance.Environmental 
Management System
Environmental Risk Management
The Company has integrated environmental risk management 
into its comprehensive risk management system, continued to 
improve the dynamic management of environmental risk and control 
mechanism, improved the quantitative management capabilities and 
real-time monitoring capabilities of environmental risks, identiﬁes 
environmental risk factors from the source, and identiﬁed the impacts of different risks and the Company’s exposure to them. The 
Company has also established an environmental risk management 
system and the relevant operating procedures, managing 
environmental risk sources by their category and tier, and strictly 
implemented supervision and inspection mechanism to identify 
environmental risks hazards for screening and rectiﬁcation.Strictly implement the laws and regulations related to environmental protection, strengthen environmental protection policies and 
management systems, and integrate environmental protection management into all aspects of daily operations.
Actively formulate mid- and long-term environmental protection management improvement plans, benchmark with the best-in-class 
environmental protection management practices, and comprehensively improve environmental protection management capabilities.
Identify, monitor and control environmental risks, fully measure the impact of the Company’s own operations on the environment, 
systematically improve own environmental performance, and strive to achieve “zero pollution” and operate in harmony with nature 
and the environment.•  
•  
•  The “Zero Pollution” TargetsEnvironmental Protection Management System
The Company continuously implemented the HSSE (health, safety, security and environment) 
management system and optimised the policies and system documents related to environmental 
protection, which provided the necessary guarantees in terms of policies and guidelines, implementation, 
and evaluation and assessment, to ensure the smooth operation, auditing and continuous improvement 
of the environmental protection management system. The Company also urged its subsidiaries to make 
continuous improvement of their environmental management. As of the end of 2020, there were 46 
subsidiaries of the Company had passed the ISO14000 environmental management system third-party 
certiﬁcation.
RMB 11.4 billion 
in environmental protection 
expenditures in 202023.4%
increased year-on-year
Environmental Risk Management Operating Procedures
Tier-2 and Tier-2 risk sources are 
managed by Subsidiaries and 
branches
Tier-1 risk sources Tier-2 risk sources Tier-3 risk sources
Headquarters
Business Segment
Subsidiaries and 
branches
Frontline 
enterprises
Develop guidelines for environmental risk 
identiﬁcation and assessment
Supervise and inspect the environmental risks 
and emergency management of business 
units and subsidiaries 
Carry out spot environmental risk inspections 
Carry out environmental risk identiﬁcation and 
assessmentReport Tier-1 risk sources to the 
headquarters
Report Tier-1 risk sources to the 
business units for review and 
conformationEnvironmental Protection Policy System of Sinopec
Formulated the Sinopec HSSE Management System (Requirements) to specify the Company’s overall 
environmental protection requirements.
Formulated the Sinopec HSSE System Environmental Implementation Guide with reference to the 
ISO14001 (GB/T24001) standard.
Formulated four policies in 2020, including Sinopec Pollution Prevention and Control Management 
Regulations, Sinopec Environmental Factors Identiﬁcation, Evaluation and Control Management Measures, 
Sinopec Environmental Incident Risk and Emergency Management Measures, and Sinopec Emergency 
Plan for Natural Disasters, revised the Sinopec Environmental Protection Management Regulations and two 
other policies. A total of 19 environmental protection policies have been formulated, which comprehensively 
deﬁne the responsibilities, scope, processes and targets of Sinopec’s environmental protection undertakings.
Formulated the Sinopec Energy Environmental Performance Evaluation Implementation Measures and the 
Enterprise Environmental Performance Evaluation Work Guidelines (Trial), to evaluate the environmental 
performance of subsidiaries.
Established the HSSE Management Committee at top management level as the decision-making body of 
the Company’s environmental protection policies, with Chairman of the Board serves as the director of the 
committee. The committee is responsible for reviewing the company’s environmental development plan 
and related policies and regulations, coordinating and solving environmental problems, and supervising the 
performance of its environmental protection efforts.
Established the Sinopec HSSE Management System Operation Centre, which is responsible for the 
operation and audit of the environmental management system.
Required all subsidiaries to establish HSSE management bodies and formulate their own HSSE 
management handbooks in accordance with HSSE guidelines and environmental protection requirements, 
so as to realise reﬁned environmental management.Policy 
Requirements
Management 
Requirements
Formulated the Sinopec HSSE Management System Audit Scoring Rules, set up an HSSE auditor team and 
provided relevant training for auditor, and conducted HSSE management system audits of subsidiaries.
Organised trainings for HSSE management system internal auditors, established HSSE management 
system internal auditor team in subsidiaries, and carried out HSSE management system internal audit.
Established the environmental monitoring system, the environmental performance appraisal system, and the 
environmental incident accountability system.
Signed the Energy and Environment Target Responsibility Commitment with subsidiaries every year, 
specifying indicators of annual evaluation; integrated energy conservation and environmental protection into 
the management performance evaluation system and increase environmental accountability.
Included energy conservation and environmental protection as a binding indicator for the performance 
appraisal of management personnel of the Company and its subsidiaries, for each point deducted, the 
annual performance bonus of a manager would be deducted by 3%, up to a 20% maximum.Implementation 
Requirements
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation48 49
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyEnvironmental Impact Management
Focusing on its “zero pollution” target, the Company made great ef forts to regulate project 
construction and production operation, managed and mitigated the negative environmental impact 
of its business activities both upstream and downstream from a life-cycle perspective, so as to 
achieves reasonable development while protecting the ecological environment.
Carried out project feasibility 
study and environmental impact 
assessment, evaluated the 
impact of project construction 
and operation on the ecological 
environment, proposed and 
implemented corresponding 
ecological environmental 
protection measures in the 
construction and operation 
process.Carried out ecological environment 
survey and assessment before entering 
new production areas, identiﬁed 
ecological environment sensitive targets, 
and avoided ecologically sensitive 
areas.
Strictly implemented the requirements of 
environmental assessment and design 
documents, adopted green construction 
plans, and gave priority to the use of 
production and construction techniques 
and technical measures with less 
emissions and using less land to reduce 
the impact of project construction on the 
ecological environment.
Both the Company and its 
subsidiaries have submitted their 
implementation reports on the 
national pollution discharge permit 
management platform, which could 
be publicly accessed after being 
reviewed by local environmental 
protection authorities.
The key pollutant discharge units 
were required to install online 
monitoring device, data collected 
were transmit to the national and 
local monitoring platforms in real-
time and used for supporting the 
supervision by relevant authorities.Formulated the Guidelines for the 
Preparation of Emergency Plans 
for Emergent Environmental 
Incidents and Guiding Opinions 
on the Provision of Emergency 
Supplies for Emergent 
Environmental Incidents to 
ensure that effective treatment 
measures would be taken 
when an incident occurs, so 
as to reduce pollution loss and 
mitigate the ecological damage.Formulated the Notice on the 
In-Depth Implementation of the 
Clean Production Audit Work 
in Key Industries, and regularly 
optimised the mechanism, 
promote emissions reductions 
throughout the entire process, 
and supervise subsidiaries to 
continuously reduce pollutant 
emissions.Established the investigation 
and evaluation mechanism 
regarding the current ecological 
environmental conditions, and 
carried out ecological rectiﬁcation 
and restoration based on the 
ﬁndings of the investigation and 
evaluation.
Site selectionConstruction
Environmental 
monitoringClean 
production
Emergency 
responseProject 
withdrawalThe Green Enterprise Campaign
The Company issues Energy and Environmental Responsibility 
Commitment to its subsidiaries every year, specifying the emission 
reduction targets and governance tasks for them. The performances 
of the subsidiaries are included as part of their annual performance 
evaluation, so as to ensure that they reach their various targets 
as planned, including KPI on clean energy, resource and energy 
 East China Petroleum Bureau adopted green production management measures during the drilling process to ensure environmental protection
utilisation, pollutants, and greenhouse gas emissions, etc. In 2020, 
39 subsidiaries of the Company were nominated to be awarded 
the title of “Sinopec Green Enterprise”. In addition, another 37 
subsidiaries were reviewed to maintain the title, totally accounting 
for 66% of the Green Enterprise Campaign target. 
Number of “Sinopec Green Enterprises” awarded 
2018 201937 76 10
2020Sinopec Corp. launched the Green Enterprise Campaign in 2018. 
With a vision of “contributing to clean energy and practicing 
green development”, the Green Enterprise Campaign calls for 
the comprehensive implementation of the green and low-carbon 
development strategy from six aspects: green development, 
green energy, green production, green service, green technology, 
and green culture. The Company has established the green 
action targets for 2023, formulated the Sinopec Green Enterprise 
Evaluation Guideline, established the Sinopec Green Enterprise 
Campaign Working Group to comprehensively promoted the 
development of green enterprises.
Sinopec Green Enterprise Campaign 
Working GroupSubsidiaries and grassroots 
enterprises
Green Enterprise 
Campaign
Implementation plan and task lists
Green Enterprise Evaluation System and Guideline
Full coverage of the upper- middle- and lower-stream of the industrial chainVision, targets and action plans
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation50 51
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyCompleted the oil quality upgrade to meet the National VI emission standards ahead of schedule 
in key cities in July 2017; Started supplying National VI standard gasoline and diesel products for 
motor vehicles nationwide on January 1, 2019.
In compliance with the new International Maritime Organisation (IMO) Low Sulphur Regulation and 
requirements of China’s maritime authority on low sulphur fuel oil, the Company produced 4.54 
million tonnes of LSFO and dominated the domestic market as the largest LSFO supplier in China.
Developed environmentally friendly, low-carbon and high-performance chemical products; launched 
new innovative epoxy resin products, which are non-toxic, waterproof and corrosion-resistant, 
VOCs-free during its production process, and can be used in a variety of applications;
Independently developed a low-volatility, low-odour synthetic resin for auto parts, and a synthetic 
resin product used as high-capacity lithium battery separator materials;
Realised the industrialise production of biodegradable polyester, which can be used to make 
disposable daily necessities, packaging materials, agricultural ﬁlms, etc. It can be completely 
degraded into water and carbon dioxide under composting conditions.
Our 
Commitment
Progress in 
2020
Fuel products that meet 
the National VI emission 
standards
Low-sulphur fuel 
oil (LSFO)
Green chemical 
products
Note: Low-sulphur maritime fuel oil (LSFO) is mainly used by large ships at sea. Compared with traditional maritime fuel oil, LSFO reduces the sulphur content 
from 3.5% to 0.5% and has signiﬁcantly less amount of sulphur dioxide emission.Supplying Green Products
Sinopec Corp. is committed to reducing the impact on the environment in the overall value chain. The 
Company focuses on developing and providing clean, green, and high-quality energy and chemical 
products, continues to improve product quality, and strives to meet the highest standards of emissions and 
certiﬁcation.The Company strictly abides by laws, policies and standards related to air pollution prevention and 
control, implements integrated management of energy conservation and environmental protection, 
comprehensively monitors its emission of atmospheric pollutants to improve the comprehensive control 
of air pollution, and makes timely rectiﬁcation to issues identiﬁed to its emission of atmospheric pollutants 
meets the requirement of applicable standards.
Atmospheric Pollutants Control MeasuresAtmospheric Pollutants Control
Policies and 
standards
Emission 
permit
Source 
control
Environmental 
monitoring
Emergency 
responseContinued to implement the Three-year Implementation Plan for Pollution Prevention and Control 
of the Sinopec Green Enterprise Campaign;
Formulated the Sinopec 2020 VOCs Governance Plan and the Special Action Plan for Ozone 
Pollution Prevention and Control in 2020, putting forward emission standards for VOCs and NOX 
that are more stringent than the national and regional standards. 
The main atmosphere pollutants produced by the Company include SO2, VOCs and NOX. All 
Sinopec subsidiaries have applied and been granted the necessary emission permits before the 
required deadline, and managed the concentration and total amount their atmosphere pollutants 
emissions in strict accordance with the permits.
Implemented integrated management of energy conservation and environmental protection, 
reducing atmosphere pollutants emissions by optimising energy structure, using clean fuels and 
raw (auxiliary) materials and adopting clean production technologies and advanced treatment 
technologies.
Installed online environmental monitoring device in accordance with government requirements 
to ensure real-time monitoring of atmosphere pollutants emissions, strengthened the operation 
management and maintenance of online monitoring device to ensure reliable results.
Established early warning and alarm mechanisms, and made timely adjustment to the operation of 
production equipment and management of environmental protection device to ensure compliance 
with emission standards.
Initiated emergency plans under severely polluted weather conditions, and made timely adjustment 
to production equipment and environmental protection device to ensure compliance.
Independently developed 
biodegradable polyester bag
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation52 53
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyUsually at a service station, a small amount of volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs) escapes during the unloading process and 
the refuelling process. Sinopec Corp. vigorously carried out 
measures to reduce VOCs emissions. From 2018 to date, the 
Company has completed the fuel vapour recovery upgrades of 
nearly 300 oil depots and more than 28,000 service stations. Standardising Operation Processes to Reduce VOCs Emissions
 VOCs treatment project for the Baling Petrochemical’s newly built cyclohexanone plant
Adhering to the principle of “reduce, resource and harmless” for solid waste disposal, the Company 
actively promoted the concept of circular economy, and vigorously promoted the comprehensive utilisation 
of solid waste. The Company strengthened the whole-process management of solid waste, requiring the 
100% disposal rate for hazardous waste to be disposed properly, and included solid waste management 
into its energy and environmental responsibility evaluation. All solid waste of the Company were properly 
utilised or harmlessly disposed of.Solid Waste Management
Indicator
Amount of non-hazardous solid waste (thousand tons)
Amount of hazardous waste (thousand tons)
Compliance rate of solid waste disposal (%)
Percentage of hazardous solid waste disposed properly (%)2019
2,115.32
642.3
100
1002020
1,710.8
731.1
100
100
In response to the green packaging trend, the Company 
focused on the pilot project of the thinning of the heavy ﬁlm 
packaging bags used in synthetic resin products such as 
polyoleﬁns. As of the end of 2020, all chemical subsidiaries of 
Sinopec had reduced the thickness of heavy ﬁlm packaging 
bags to no more than 0.16 mm, and over 80% of them even Reducing Packaging Waste
reached 0.14 mm. Based on the Company’s polyoleﬁn production 
capacity of approximately 16 million tonnes per year, the thinning 
of 0.02mm could reduce packaging material use by approximately 
11,000 tonnes and save cost by approximately RMB 130 million 
each year, achieving both cost-effectiveness and reduction in 
packaging waste.VOCs emissions were effectively controlled due to the sealed 
unloading and storage processes of fuel products. The Company 
also strictly monitors the operation of fuel vapour recovery device, 
hiring qualiﬁed third-party to carried out mandatory inspections to 
ensure all environmental protection device operate properly, so as 
to reduce the environmental impact.
In 2020,
Sulphur dioxide emissions
61,900 
tonnesIn 2020,
Nitrogen oxides emissions
92,000 
tonnes
The thinning of heavy ﬁlm 
packaging bag is reduced by: 
0.02mmThe cost is reduced by: 
approximate
 RMB 130 million
Decreased by 
4.2% year-on-yearDecreased by 
4.1% year-on-year
Case
Case
As of the end of 2020
Based on the Company’s 
polyoleﬁn production 
capacity of approximately
16 million
 tonnes per year
As of the end of 2020
packaging material use is 
reduced by approximately 
11,000 
tonnes
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation54 55
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyManagement system 
requirements and 
standards
Process control 
source control
Categorised 
management and 
professional disposalIn compliance with the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Prevention and Control of 
Environmental Pollution by Solid Waste (revised in 2020) and the National Directory of Hazardous 
Wastes (2021 edition).
Formulated the Work Plan for the Implementation of the Law of the People’s Republic of China 
on the Prevention and Control of Solid Waste Pollution; organised subsidiaries to carry out 
environmental protection inspection and appraisal on solid waste pollution prevention and control 
facilities, as well as special actions for ensuring the proper disposal of construction waste and 
domestic waste, making sure all production and operations were in compliance with laws and 
regulations related to solid waste.
Formulated the Sinopec Hazardous Waste Environmental Management Guidelines (Trial), 
requiring supervision for the third-party contracted to handle non-hazardous solid waste, and 
identiﬁcation veriﬁcation and monitoring by in-person or GPS on-vehicle monitoring and video 
surveillance for the third-party contracted to handle hazardous solid waste.
Formulated the Implementation Plan for the Special Rectiﬁcation of Hazardous W aste Safety, 
and organised subsidiaries to conduct thorough inspection and rectiﬁcation of hazards and 
environmental protection issues related to hazardous waste.
Optimised the whole-process environmental supervision system of solid waste, including 
generation, collection, storage, transfer, transportation, utilisation and disposal. The Company 
and its subsidiaries carried out campaign to categorise solid waste and implement categorised 
management, and to develop hazardous waste list, and use the list to ensure categorised 
collection and storage of hazardous waste depending on their categories. 
Continued to promote the reduction of solid waste and implement green procurement and green 
packaging mechanisms to effectively reduce the amount of solid waste generated and increase 
the comprehensive utilisation of solid waste.
Solid waste generated in the production and operation processes of the Company are managed 
in four categories in accordance with of relevant laws and regulations: hazardous waste, non-
hazardous industrial waste, construction waste, and domestic waste.
Hazardous wastes are mainly utilised or disposed in the Company’s own facilities, or by third-
parties with proper qualiﬁcation to handle hazardous waste.
Non-hazardous industrial wastes are handled by entities with proper technologies and capabilities 
for comprehensive utilisation or sent to landﬁll.
Construction wastes are utilised in accordance with the disposal plan approved by the local 
government, or sent to designated landﬁll.
Domestic wastes are collected and disposed by qualiﬁed entities with approval from the local 
government.The Company attaches great importance to water resources management. It has formulated 
the Sinopec Industrial Water Conservation Management Measures, and make the 
commitment in the Green Enterprise Campaign to “reducing the fresh water withdrawal for 
industrial use by no less than 1% each year”. The Company actively implemented water-
saving and alternative measures to minimise water loss and waste, applied advanced 
processes and IT solutions to improve water use efﬁciency, and vigorously promoted the 
utilisation of waste water to achieve efﬁcient and rational use of water resources.
In 2020, at the “2020 Leading Action for Water Efﬁciency Leaders in Key Water-using 
Enterprises” organised by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, Ministry 
of Water Resources, Development and Reform Commission, and State Administration of 
Market Supervision, Zhenhai Reﬁning & Chemical Co. was named as “W ater Efﬁciency 
Leading Enterprise in Reﬁning Industry”, and Zhenhai Reﬁning & Chemical Co. and Yanshan 
Petrochemical were name as “Water Efﬁciency Leading Enterprise in Ethylene Industry”.Water Resource Management
The Company strengthened the prevention and control of water pollution risks, and conducted 
comprehensive inspection of its discharge of water pollutants in accordance with the requirements 
of the national pollution prevention and control campaign as well as relevant standards. Problems 
identiﬁed were rectiﬁes in a timely manner to ensure compliance.
In 2020,
Fresh water withdrawal for 
industrial use
643.20
million cubic metres
Reduce from source Recycle to increase efﬁciencyReuse waste water to reduce 
discharge
Used alternatives to fresh water, optimised water use 
structure to reduce fresh water use; A number of subsidiaries 
started using municipal reclaimed water or treated mine water 
to replace fresh water to reduce fresh water consumption.
Carried out water balance testing and regularly examined 
water supply pipelines to eliminate leakage; upgraded 
pipelines of age or with severe leaking to realise water saving 
potential and reduce water loss due to leakage.Optimised the operation of the water 
circulation system, using reclaimed water 
and reused water as replenishment water 
to reduce the use of fresh water; built 
condensate recovery systems to increase 
the reused rate of condensate.
Developed and implemented a water-
saving technology, which was able to 
reduce process water use, purify sulphur-
containing waste water by stripping 
for reuse, increasing the reuse rate of 
stripped and puriﬁed water.Promoted subsidiaries at all levels 
to reuse sewage and waste water, 
built appropriate sewage treatment 
facilities according to the quality 
of sewage inﬂow, and improved 
sewage treatment and utilisation.
Cooperated with research 
institutions, overcame technical 
bottleneck and developed a high-
concentration salt water desalination 
treatment system and solution to 
improve sewage reuse rate.Water Conservation Measures
Required all subsidiaries to apply for the necessary discharge permits before the required deadline, and 
control the total amount of water pollutants discharged in accordance with the requirements of the permit.
Installed online environmental monitoring device in accordance with government regulations to ensure real-
time monitoring of waste water discharge; optimised the operation management and maintenance of online 
monitoring device to ensure reliable results.
Intensiﬁed reduction measures at the source, vigorously implemented rain-sewage diversion upgrades 
and the visualisation of sewage pipelines among subsidiaries to effectively reduce the amount of sewage 
generated.
Established early warning and alarm mechanisms, and made timely adjustment to the operation of 
production equipment and management of environmental protection device to ensure compliance with 
discharge standards.Discharge permit
Online monitoring
Source control
Real-time monitoringDecreased by 
1.1% 
year-on-year
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation56 57
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
Society Excavation operation for land reclamation on the Cangxi 3-9 
platform of the East China Petroleum Bureau Taizhou Oil Production 
PlantSinopec Corp. strengthened the management of land resources in 
accordance with the principle of “intensive, efﬁcient and green land 
use”, required all subsidiaries to minimise the use of arable lands, 
and implemented closed-loop management over the life cycle of 
land. To promote the sustainable use of land resources, Sinopec 
subsidiaries formulated detailed land management measures, and 
conducted swift reclamation and soil restoration after land use 
strictly in accordance with relevant state regulations. Land Resource Management
The Company formulated the Sinopec Pollution Prevention and Control Management Measures to strictly 
control various pollutants including hydrocarbons, and made great efforts, including regular inspections 
and rectiﬁcations of devices, storage and transportation equipment upstream and downstream of the 
industrial chain, to prevent the risk of hydrocarbons leaks or spills.Preventing Leak and Spill of HydrocarbonsIn compliance with the Environmental Protection Law of China and the United Nations Convention on 
Biodiversity, Sinopec Corp. continued to improve the management system and policies for biodiversity 
protection, strengthened the ecological protection management system, and urged all subsidiaries to 
proactively identify ecologically sensitive sites and avoid areas protected by the ecological red line. The 
Company has established a sound ecological protection and restoration supervision mechanism. In 2020, 
there was no major harmful incident to biodiversity occurred concerning Sinopec Corp. Biodiversity Protection
The Company has included speciﬁc requirements on biodiversity in the feasibility study and environmental 
impact assessment for major investment projects. Biodiversity assessment was required before entering 
any new production area to fully investigates the regional ecological environment. Regular inspections 
were carried out to identify potential risks related to the ecological red line and mitigate or eliminate the 
impact. The Company also conducted surveys on the types and quantities of animals and plants in oil and 
gas ﬁelds, conducted dynamic tracking and monitoring of the corresponding pollutants and chlorophyll 
content in soil, water and sediments, and studied the effects of its environmental protection measures in 
the oil ﬁeld based on monitoring results. In 2020, there were 31 ecological monitoring points deployed, 
and 4,186 sets of monitoring data were collected at these monitoring points.
During the site selection for the natural gas pipeline project on the southern 
trunk line of the Shandong pipeline network, the Company gave priority to 
avoiding ecological protection red lines and ecologically sensitive areas, 
carried out research on ecological protection measures and feasibility analysis 
along with the feasibility study of the project, speciﬁed a variety of ecological 
protection measures to be used, including land protection measures during 
construction, restoration measures for land temporarily used, vegetation 
protection and restoration measures, aquatic ecological protection measures, 
and soil erosion prevention measures, etc. We used manual excavation 
operation in woodland area to reduce the impact of mechanical operations on 
farmland, vegetation and woodland. We also paid attention to the protection 
of river creatures and ﬁshes in rivers the project passed through. Green Construction Helps Protect BiodiversityMeasures for the Environmental Protection Management 
of Sinopec Corp. (Sinopec Production [2020] No.222)
Management Measures of Ecological Protection of 
Sinopec Corp. (Sinopec Energy [2019] No.288)Ensuring land use 
compliance
Land Protection during 
construction
Idle land utilisation
Focused research
Rectiﬁcation of key risksSoil restorationIncluded the completeness of land procedures and documents into the scope of identiﬁcation and assessment of key 
risks, communicated and coordinated with local governments to ensure land use compliance, and provide ﬁnancial 
compensation and cultivated land compensation in accordance with local government regulations.
Developed comprehensive soil protection measures during the construction process in accordance with the 
characteristics of the project, including layer stripping, layered excavation, layered stacking and sequential layered 
backﬁlling, to reduce the impact on the topsoil and soil nutrients, and accelerate soil restoration.
Implemented retiring and reclamation of idle land from industrial uses. Idle land with no safety and environmental risk 
was arranged to be retired in accordance with their category. Land located near farmland and eligible for reclamation 
was returned to the local government after reclamation. 
Carried out a special research project, Research on Oil and Gas Loss Monitoring, Prevention and Control in Oil 
and Gas Field, during the year, exploring the establishment of a quantitative assessment, prevention and control 
system for oil and gas loss in the production process by analysing key factors inﬂuencing oil and gas loss and 
comparing and optimising control technologies for both end of oil and gas loss.
Independently developed the Sinopec Underground Double-layer Oil Tank technology to solve the corrosion 
and leakage problems of traditional single-layer oil storage tanks when buried underground; Implemented anti-
seepage upgrades in nearly 30,000 service stations to continuously improve soil and groundwater pollution 
prevention and control capabilities and prevent fuel tank leakage from the source.Required reﬁning and chemical subsidiaries to implement Soil restoration. For instance, Zhejiang Petroleum 
commissioned a professional third-party to restore the replacement land of its oil depot; Yizheng Chemical Fibre cleared 
its sludge landﬁll, carried out soil and groundwater inspections over the site, and conducted treatment and restoration 
subsequently.“…strictly in compliance with state ecological protection requirements, 
project construction, operation and decommissioning (relocation) shall have 
their respective ecological protection plans formulated and implemented, 
shall take effective measures to reduce the disturbance to the ecological 
environment, shall carry out the necessary ecological assessment, 
monitoring, restoration and statistic studies as required, so as to protect 
biodiversity and ensure ecological safety.”
“All units shall strictly manage their production and operation, reduce the 
disturbance of production and operation to the ecological environment, 
protect biodiversity, and ensure ecological safety.” The Management 
Measures also speciﬁes the ecological protection requirements for each 
stage of project construction and operation, and clearly requires the 
inclusion to biodiversity protection into the annual energy and environmental 
performance evaluation.Migrating birds return to the Dagang Wetland next to Tianjin 
Petrochemical every March4,186 
sets of monitoring data 
collected31
ecological monitoring 
points deployed
Case
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation58 59
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietySafety 
Management04
Solid safety management is of great signiﬁcance to the petrochemical 
industry as the operation of the industry involves multiple safety risks. 
Sinopec Corp. strictly implemented the HSSE management system 
to comprehensively manage health, safety, security and environment 
issues. Taking safety as a red line, the Company strengthened 
safety awareness of all employees and fulﬁlled its primary safety 
responsibility to prevent the occurrence of safety accidents and ensure 
safe operations, providing the safety guarantee for the Company’s 
sustainable development.
Safety Management System
Workplace Safety
Contractor Safety
Logistics Safety
Information Security
SecuritySafety Management System
Sinopec Corp. regards safety as a top priority. The Company strictly abides by the Safety Production 
Law, strictly implements the HSSE management system and makes regular updates and improvements, 
vigorously carries out risk identiﬁcation and assessment, and continuously reinforces its safety risk 
management and emergency management systems.
HSSE Management System
In 2020, the Company formulated and implemented measures of the 
HSSE system, which clariﬁed the responsibilities of each department 
and established audit standards and quantitative evaluation criteria. Key 
indicators were monitored and analysed to ensure the effective operation 
of the system regularly. All subsidiaries actively carried out internal audits of 
the system, and the results were incorporated into their safety performance 
appraisal to ensure the implementation of safety responsibilities.Identiﬁcation and Management of Safety Risks
In accordance to the requirements of the Sinopec Management Measures 
on the Dual Preventive Mechanisms of Production Safety and Safety 
Hazard Identiﬁcation and Rectiﬁcation, the Company took a “bottom-up” 
approach to identify safety risks at four different levels, from grassroots 
units at the bottom, to secondary units, subsidiaries, and the Company 
at the top. Each level was required to produce a risk list of their own. The 
Company carries out a comprehensive identiﬁcation and assessment 
of safety risks once a year, and the major safety risks will be singled out 
for intensiﬁed monitoring and management. Meanwhile, the Company 
focused on developing information system for safety risk management, 
and developing and launching the uniﬁed management platform for risk 
assessment to improve professional and accurate results.
The risk identiﬁcation process of the Company mainly focuses on the 
operation of the HSSE management system, risk management and control 
and hazard identiﬁcation and rectiﬁcation, contractor and direct operation 
management, special safety inspection and supervision, emergency 
management, employee health, and security.Workplace Safety
The Company strictly abides by the safety red line in workplace. By specifying the relevant safety 
responsibilities, the Company has established a well-structured, well-deﬁned tiered management 
responsibility system, under which the general manager taking full responsibility, the vice general 
managers taking responsibility of the business segment under charge, business unit directors taking 
the main managing role, and the safety department providing supervision.
Zero casualty, zero pollution, zero accident
Organisation leads, and all employees participate; 
manage and control risks, and strength the 
fundamentals 
Safety ﬁrst, environmental protection foremost, ensure 
physical and mental health of employees, and strict, 
detailed, effective and consistent implementationTarget
Guidelines
Concepts
2001
2015
2018
2019
2020Developed the Safety, Environment and Health Management System
Released the Safety Management Handbook
Integrated security into the safety management system, forming the Sinopec HSSE (health, safety, 
security and environment) management system
Revised relevant management policies regarding safety responsibility, safety behaviour, safety training, 
risk management and hazards control, operations, and occupational health, etc.
Started the implementation of Sinopec HSSE Management System (Requirements), which covers safety 
management 
Formulated and started implementing the HSSE system implementation measuresSafety hazards 
identiﬁcation and 
rectiﬁcation
Direct operation 
safety
Emergency 
managementThe Company carried out large-scale screening and analysed leakage patterns in the past ﬁve years to 
identify and ﬁx leakage hazards. In conjunction with the Three-Year Special Rectiﬁcation Action for Safety 
Production, we carried out inspections to screen for leakage hazards related to materials of high risks, such 
as autopolymer and materials easily oxidise. In 2020, all major safety hazards on the watch list had been 
rectiﬁed, with a rectiﬁcation rate of 100%.
The Company carried out special rectiﬁcation measures regarding construction operation safety , and 
intensiﬁed the control of key processes such as project contracting and construction operation planning. The 
Company also carried out special rectiﬁcation measures focusing on operations in restricted spaces and high-
altitude operations, implemented the requirements of the Ten Measures to Strengthen Safety Management 
of Direct Operation, and strengthened the safety management over contractors and direct operation by 
strengthening the owner’s main responsibility through special inspections and remote video monitoring.
The Company revised emergency plans for a number of safety risks (such as leakage of sulphur-containing 
natural gas pipelines and frequent occurrence of geological disasters), and released the updated version, 
Emergency Plan for Production Safety Accidents (2020 Edition). An emergency command platform has been 
established to effectively improve emergency response capabilities. The Company also carried out emergency 
drills and conducted assessment afterwards to make the emergency drills more targeted and more effective, 
so as to further enhance its emergency response capabilities. Regarding emergency response team, on the 
one hand, the Company established dedicated emergency response teams, such as emergency rescue, ﬁre 
control, monitoring and early warning, and ﬁre prevention, etc. to enhance its comprehensive emergency 
response capabilities; on the other hand, it also strengthened voluntary emergency response teams and 
formulated well-deﬁned goals and requirements to enhance the ﬁrst response capabilities of grassroots units.100% 
rectiﬁcation rate of major 
safety hazards on watch list
Safety management personnel 
screening for hazards at the 
Shunbei 5 site 
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation62 63
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyContractor Safety
Regarding the safety management regarding contractors, the Company mainly focused on requiring 
contractors to improve safety skills, enhance safety awareness, and strengthen subcontracting 
management, so as to encourage contractors to improve safety management and prevent safety 
accidents.
In 2020, the Company formulated the contractor safety management implementation measures, which 
speciﬁed the safety responsibilities for each party and focused on urging contractors to raise their risk 
awareness. The Company analysed the causes of contractor accidents, carried out special rectiﬁcation of 
construction safety, and intensiﬁed the management of key control points such as project contracting and 
construction planning. The Company also carried out special inspections and remote video inspections 
of operations of its own and by contractors to ensure accountability , and carried out special rectiﬁcation 
programmes focusing on restricted space operations and high-altitude operations to ensure the 
implementation of the management measures. Contractors with safety violations will be disciplined with 
measures such as ﬁnancial penalties, partial stoppage and rectiﬁcation, warnings, etc. In 2020, twelve 
contractors who violated the safety management system were disciplined, which was a 25% decline from 
the previous year.The Company has formulated the safety management system 
for hazardous chemicals transportation carriers, required carriers 
to implement HSSE management, and carried out on-site 
inspections and carrier inspection to urge carriers to improve safety 
management. Moreover, the Company continued to study the 
supply model of hazardous chemicals and worked with carriers and 
partners to ensure the logistics safety across the whole process. Logistics Safety
In 2020, the Company enhanced the HSSE management and 
eligibility management of logistics service providers, encouraging 
them to develop a sound management system covering quality, 
safety and environmental protection requirements. The Company 
also explored the development and application of information 
system for hazardous chemicals transportation safety management, 
and implemented other measures such as emergency watch 
and monitoring and early warning. In 2020, the Company had 
no reported accident involving the transportation of hazardous 
chemicals.25% 
decline in number of 
contractors with safety 
violations disciplined in 2020
Carried out awareness raising campaigns regarding new regulations and standards, researched and formulated the safety 
management system for the transportation of hazardous chemicals, and strengthened the safety supervision of key control points, 
such as consignment, transportation, loading and unloading.
Organised road transportation emergency response trainings for hazardous chemical carriers, including onsite training on leakage 
sealing, cargo transferring and hoisting under simulated accident scenarios.
Convened meetings of logistics service providers to specify safety responsibility and brief on typical accidents as cautionary safety 
education.
Required “dedicated tanker vehicles for diesel and gasoline respectively” during transportation, strictly implemented safety 
management measures for tankers, such as the requirement for tanker lead seals and the ID requirement for tanker drivers.
Continued to implement the inspection and certiﬁcation of transportation vehicles for hazardous chemicals, so as to urge logistics 
service providers to fulﬁl their safety responsibilities. Conducted inspections of tankers on the road by dedicated personnel with 
GPS positioning system to ensure the safety of the transportation process.
Safety personnel inspecting a tanker vehicle to for leakage hazards of 
at Feixi Oil DepotCustomized side-loading container truck ensures reliable transportation of 
lithium battery separator materials
Indicators
Percentage of contractors qualiﬁed by the QHSE management system (%)2019
1002018
1002020
100
  Zhongyuan Oilﬁeld uses models to carry out landscaping operation safety trainings for workers of a contractor of its natural gas project
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation64 65
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyInformation Security
Sinopec Corp. has formulated a network security strategy and established a sound network security 
notiﬁcation and emergency response mechanism. The Company strengthened the security management 
of critical information infrastructure and regularly examined its Internet applications to protect the security 
of its information infrastructure and data. In 2020, there was no signiﬁcant incident of major network 
security incident occurred at the Company.
Formulated relevant policies such as the Information 
Security Management Measures, Sinopec Network 
Security Notiﬁcation Management Measures, and Desktop 
Computer Security Management Measures, continuously 
tracked security risks in existing information systems, and 
timely rectify identiﬁed security hazards.
Set up the Sinopec Security Response Centre (SSRC) to 
dynamically monitor the Company’s network to look for 
security loopholes, conduct real-time analysis of network 
attacks, and promptly handle the threats from abnormal 
network behaviours.Security
The Company formulated and implemented the Sinopec Overseas Security Management Measures, 
and regularly optimised its security management and pandemic prevention and control systems focusing 
on risk assessment and control, risk prevention and protection, emergency response and rescue, and 
inspection and supervision. The Company strengthened its medical support and emergency response 
capabilities, and implemented professional management of pandemic prevention and control and safety 
emergency response operations overseas. In 2020, the Company focused on pandemic prevention and 
control and achieved remarkable results, maintaining its overseas security record of “zero death” for 13 
consecutive years.
Formulate regulations on the prevention and management of natural disasters, developed relevant emergency plans, and 
conducted screening of geological disaster hazards.
Released two issues of Overseas Security Risk Assessment Report and organised subsidiaries to participate in online overseas 
security risk assessment. The assessment was participated by over 90% of relevant employees and studied by all employees 
concerned with a 100% response rate. 
Conducted 48 training sessions on overseas safety and security precautions in China, covering 1,029 employees. 
To better protect the safety of employees of our overseas operations, the Company established the Overseas Pandemic 
Prevention and Control Steering Group, formulated policies such as the Guidelines on the Prevention and Control of Covid-19 
Pandemic for Overseas Organisations and Projects, and the Sinopec’s Emergency Plan for Overseas Covid-19 Incidents, 
purchased and prepared emergency supplies such as pandemic prevention materials, medical supplies and daily supplies, and 
hired medical experts to provide remote diagnosis and medical consultation.Actions in 2020:
90%+ 
of relevant employees 
participated online overseas 
security risk assessment
1,029 employees 
participated trainings on 
overseas securityIn 2020Carried out screening of network security vulnerabilities 
of subsidiaries, set up ledgers for high-risk problems, and 
implemented centralised control of all external network 
access points.
Conducted on-site inspection of subsidiaries with 
signiﬁcant risks and urged them to rectify problems in asset 
management, vulnerability management, and network 
access management.
Regularly published updates on network security and safety 
rectiﬁcation notiﬁcations, and continuously tracked and 
retested the reported security risk rectiﬁcation cases to 
ensure closed-loop management.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation66 67
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyRespecting 
Human Rights05
Sinopec Corp. has integrated its respect and protection of human rights 
throughout the whole process of human resource management. The 
Company is committed to protecting the legitimate rights and interests 
of employees, and providing employees with sound workplace health 
management, complete training and career development mechanisms, 
and considerate employee caring measures. By providing employees 
with enabling platforms, opportunities and care, we strive to grow 
together with our employees to create a better future.
Respecting and Protecting Human Rights
Employee Health
Employee Training and Development
Caring for EmployeesRespecting and Protecting Human Rights
Sinopec Corp. strictly complies with laws and regulations on human rights protection, the National 
Human Rights Action Plan of China and international human rights conventions, and prohibits any act 
of disregard or abuse of human rights. We strictly abide by China’s Regulation on Prohibiting the Use of 
Child Labour and relevant laws and regulations in overseas markets where we operate to prohibit the 
use of child labour. We respect the employees’ right of personal freedom and the right to take leave, and 
prohibit the use of forced labour. We respect the rights and interests of female employees and ethnic 
minority employees, and strictly prohibit any form of discrimination, such as due to gender, ethnicity, 
religion and nationality. Meanwhile, we abide by the requirements of laws and regulations such as the 
Labour Law of China and the relevant regulations in where we operate, fully protect employee rights, 
strictly ensure occupational health and safety, optimise employee career development mechanisms, and 
comprehensively manage the occupational, physical and mental health of employees, striving to grow 
together with our employees.
Sinopec Corp. strictly abides by laws, such as the Labour Law of China, the Labour Contract Law of 
China, and the Trade Union Law of China, refers to the international conventions such as the International 
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the Elimination of Employment 
and Occupational Discrimination and the National Human Rights Action Plan, and follows the principles of 
equal consultation and mutual beneﬁt, to build harmonious and stable labour relationship with employees.
Protecting Labour Rights
Sinopec Corp. strictly abides by the laws and regulations of 
China and the overseas markets where it operates regarding the 
prohibition of child labour and forced labour, and explicitly prohibits 
the use of child labour and forced labour. In 2020, the Company had 
no incident of child labour and forced labour. 
Regarding recruitment and hiring, the Company signs written 
labour contracts with employees, which stipulates the conditions, 
remuneration, working hours, vacation and other rights. The Company has formulated labour contract management policies to 
regulate the signing, execution, change, cancelation and termination 
of labour contracts with employees in accordance with the law, to 
protect the labour contracts and employees’ rights and interests. 
The Company continuously attaches importance to improving 
working environment, and prohibits any form of compulsory labour, 
such as by taking workers’ ID or money as security, or putting 
workers under surveillance and threats.
Diversity and Equal Opportunities
Sinopec Corp. supports employee diversity and equal opportunities, 
and actively recruits female employees, foreign employees and 
ethnic minority employees with equal employment opportunities. 
The Company prohibits any form of discrimination and strives to 
create a welcoming and diversiﬁed workplace that allows employees 
to fully express their personalities and realise their values.
The Company strives to protect the legitimate rights and interests of 
female employees, adheres to the principle of gender equality, and 
ensures that female employees enjoy equal labour rights and social 
security beneﬁts. It also strictly implements the policies regarding 
female employees’ pregnancy and maternity leaves, nursing 
breaks, and regular physical examinations. The Company actively 
encourage female employees to participate in the management of 
the enterprise and advance to management positions. As of the end 
of 2020, the Company had a total of 384,065 employees, among 
which 33.1% were female, and 3.8% were ethnic minorities. All 
employees were registered as members of the Labour Union.
Salary and Beneﬁts
Sinopec Corp. attaches great importance to employee salary and 
beneﬁts. The Company has optimised the remuneration system 
following a dual incentive system of both salary and non-salary 
incentives, and established a multi-dimensional motivated system 
based on position, capability and performance, which consists of 
basic salary, performance bonus, and mid- and long-term incentives. 
The Company provides employees with proper social insurance 
with a multi-pillar and multi-layer insurance and support system 
including both social security insurance and corporate pensions. 
The Company ensures the employees’ right to maintain regular 
working hours and take proper leaves and vacations, and provides 
employees with regular physical examinations, paid vacations and 
rehabilitation to help employees maintain work-life balance.Employee Communication and Participation
Sinopec Corp. has established a sound employee communication 
and participation mechanism, with the employee representative 
conference playing an important role, to encourage employee 
participation, such as making suggestions, and promote the 
harmonious enterprise-employee relationship. In 2020, our employ 
representatives made more than 8,200 proposals on workplace 
safety, environmental protection, corporate management, production 
and operation, salary and beneﬁts, and employee training, etc. 
To ensure full compliance and transparency, the Company has 
also established a transparent information disclosure mechanism 
regarding issues that the employees were concerned about, such as 
performance and promotion appraisals, disclosing information and 
gathering employee feedbacks. In 2020, the Company launched 
the “Internet + Supervision” platform to listen to employee opinions 
and suggestions more extensively. All suggestions and complaints 
were sorted by designated personnel and forwarded to relevant 
departments and subsidiaries for timely veriﬁcation and rectiﬁcation.
  Employees celebrating Chinese Lantern festival384,065 employees
33.1% percentage of female employees
3.8% percentage of ethnic minority employeesAs of the end of 2020, the Company had
8,200+ 
suggestions collected from employ 
representatives during 2020
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation70 71
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyEmployee Health
Sinopec Corp. takes employee health and safety as a top priority. Following the guideline of the Healthy 
China 2030 Plan and abiding by the Safety Production Law of China and the Occupational Diseases 
Prevention and Control Law of China, the Company focused on strengthening its HSSE Management 
System and strictly implemented its Employee Health Management Policies. The Company advocated for 
the comprehensive management of employee health, and actively promoted the integrated management 
of occupational health, physical health, and mental health of employees based on the prevention and 
treatment of occupational diseases.
Identiﬁcation and Control of Occupational Hazards
Sinopec Corp. takes a comprehensive approach to identify and 
control occupational hazards. The Company focuses on the control 
of occupational disease hazards and systematically assesses the 
relevant health risks to identify workplace and personnel at higher 
risks, then adopts targeted control measures accordingly to protect 
employee health.
The Company provided health education and training for all 
employees to raise their awareness of occupational disease 
prevention, workplace safety protection, healthy lifestyle, disease 
prevention, and mental health, and encouraged them to better 
manage thier health. In 2020, the Company organised a series of 
  Providing health examination for employees   Employees receiving CPR training
The Company studied the occupational 
exposure to chemical hazards, invited 
industry experts to give relevant lectures, 
and further reﬁned the requirements for 
categorised management. 
The company also researched on the 
identiﬁcation and countermeasures of 
occupational hazards for reﬁning and 
chemical enterprises, and conducted in-
depth screening of systemic risks in the 
existing identiﬁcation and control system 
of occupational health hazards and 
relevant improvement suggestions. 
The Company strengthened the 
management and control of occupational 
harmful factors and formulated a list of 
hazardous factors for inspection and 
monitoring at workplace, including 112 
poisonous matters, 20 types of dust, 
noise, and radiation, etc.Regarding key occupational hazards ：expert lectures on the latest national occupational health standards, 
occupational health monitoring, noise hazard risk management and 
control, workplace safety protection equipment, etc. More than 3,000 
technical management personnel at all levels participated in a total 
of eight of such training sessions. 
The Company actively studies the identiﬁcation of industrial hazard 
factors, and cooperated with the National Health Commission on the 
compilation of the Occupational Disease Hazard Factors Protection 
Manual for the Petrochemical Industry, including organising 
seminars for pilot application, updating content, and implementing 
pilot programmes.Implementation 
of key tasks
Study on noise 
exposureRequired and supervised subsidiaries to make rectiﬁcation to sites could not meet standards for 
dusts and poisonous matters. 
Checked the progress of rectiﬁcation monthly, and provided on-site guidance to subsidiaries.
Rectiﬁed two sites with excessive poisonous chemical hazards and ten sites with excessive 
levels of dust throughout the year. At present, all sites that could not meet standards for dusts 
and poisonous matters have been rectiﬁed.
Studied noise control and the management of noise risks, and organised the research work on 
relevant prevention and control guidelines.
Initiated and funded ﬁve noise control pilot projects.
Implemented noise prevention and control measures, and rectiﬁed 54 posts with excessive noise 
exposures, with an annual rectiﬁcation rate of 40%.
Drafted and circulated internal safety brieﬁngs to share and promote relevant management and 
technical measures.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation72 73
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietySinopec Corp. cares for each of its employees, and strives to forge 
an enabling “caring family” for all employees by building a warm, 
caring, and encouraging workplace and foster sense of belonging 
and cohesion. In 2020, with the vision of “Healthy Sinopec, Healthy 
Mentality”, the Company implemented the Opinions on Further 
Promoting the Application of Employee Assistance Programme 
(EAP), and formally established the Sinopec Mental Health 
(EAP) Working Committee, to better protect the mental health of 
employees.
In 2020, the Company organised three EAP trainings for 176 safety 
management and overseas personnel to enhance the management 
of safety and overseas operations. We also carried out a group-wide 
survey on our internal employee aid programme. The survey shows 
that we have provided aid to 113,341 employees, totalling RMB 187 
million (including in-kind donations). 
The Company advocates the concept of “working happily and living 
healthily” and regularly organises a rich variety of cultural and sports 
activities to promote the physical and mental health of employees.
Caring for EmployeesThe Company also took advantage of its online training capabilities and developed a variety 
of quality online training resources for employees through online learning, on-the-job training, 
community learning and other methods. In 2020, the total participation of employee training of the 
Company reached 1,259,800 person-times, totalling 27,721,300 hours.
  Orientation for newly recruited graduates at the Innovation and Efﬁciency Base
Employee Training and Development
Sinopec Corp. adheres to the talent-driven growth strategy. Aiming at “cultivating a talent team that 
supports the new industrial structure”, the Company has deepened the reform of its talent development 
system and mechanism, focused on improving employee capabilities, and optimised the career path 
designs for employees to grow together with our employees.
The Company carried out a variety of training activities for different employees which supplied a central 
platform to help employees improve professional skills.
Vigorously carried out trainings for management staff at all levels, and developed an 8-level training programme 
covering new recruits, young leadership pilot programme candidates, young and middle-aged management staff, 
establishing a progressive training system from new recruits to management positions.
Focused on the development of a skilled talent team with knowledge, skills and innovation capabilities following 
the strategy of “encouraging regular skilled talent to grow, enabling advanced skilled talent to expand their skill set, 
and promoting top skilled talent to become masters”.
Organised customised trainings for “leadership, professional, and reserve” international talent, and made efforts 
to develop a multi-level and multi-discipline training matrix for international talent, including capacity enhancement 
training for overseas project managers and training for international business professionals.Accelerated the training for strategic, leadership, and innovative talent, and organised a series of training 
programmes, such as the high-level seminars on innovation and development of the reﬁning and chemical 
industry, expert training on the general reﬁning process, and the training on integrated research and application of 
high-end materials, etc.1,259,800 
person-times 
Total employee training participation
27,721,300 
hours total training hours for 
employees
RMB 187 million 
of employee support fund113,341 
employees beneﬁted 
Employee volunteers visited the parents of a colleague that could 
not return home for Chinese New Year celebrationManagement 
talent
Professional and 
technical talent
Skilled talent
International 
talent
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation74 75
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyContributing to 
Society06
Sinopec Corp. strives to take root in the communities where it operates. 
Adhering to the concept of “paying back to the local communities and 
contributing to local economy”, the Company actively promotes localised 
and market-oriented operations, strives to create job opportunities, 
promote local economic development, and contribute to poverty 
alleviation and public welfare undertakings, aiming at growing together 
with communities to achieve coordinated economic, environmental, and 
social development.
Responsible Value Chain
Community Engagement and Development
Product and Service Management
Contributing to PhilanthropyResponsible Value Chain
Sinopec Corp. attaches great importance to supply chain 
management and strives to integrate sustainability concepts into the 
supply chain management process. The Company has formulated 
the Sinopec Green Material Procurement Management Measures 
aiming at establishing a long-term green procurement management 
mechanism that is “green, low-carbon, circular, and efﬁcient”. 
During the material procurement process, we give priorities to raw 
materials, products and services that are conducive to resource 
conservation and have the least impact on the environment by 
taking full consideration of related factors, including environmental 
protection, resource conservation, safety and health, circular and 
low-carbon, and recycle and reuse. The Company is committed 
to building a green supply chain spanning from design selection, 
procurement and fulﬁlment, warehousing and logistics, to 
decommission and disposal, taking the initiative to fulﬁlling our 
social responsibilities to protect the environment, conserve energy 
and reduce emissions together with our upstream and downstream 
subsidiaries.
Supplier Management
The Company has integrated environmental protection, resource 
conservation, safety management, and sustainability management 
into its assessment and qualiﬁcation process for suppliers by 
speciﬁcally adding pollution discharge permits, energy management 
system certiﬁcations, green product, and low-carbon product 
certiﬁcations to the list of qualiﬁcation requirements for suppliers, as 
well as no occurrence of major safety incident in the last years as a 
red line requirement. 
The Company regularly conducts on-site inspections of suppliers, 
covering the supplier’s ISO14000, ISO18000 system certiﬁcations, 
workplace safety emergency management system, labour protection 
measures, discharge and emissions, and waste treatment. Health, 
safety and environmental management factors have been given 
greater weight in on-site inspection criteria. 
The Company attaches great importance to supplier compliance 
management and requires all suppliers to sign a Business Integrity 
Commitment document. Violator of the commitment will be 
disciplined by cancellation of the transaction involved and a three-
year suspension of its supplier eligibility.
The Company has established a supplier assessment and 
evaluation mechanism and developed sound disciplinary measures 
regarding the fulﬁlment of supplier contracts, such as alert, warning 
interview, suspension under risk, and handling of breach of contract. 
Suppliers with suspicious bidding behaviours such as bid rigging 
and collusion will be given a risk warning, as well as suppliers of 
major engineering projects with quality or on-time delivery risks. In 
2020, the Company issued “Reminder Letter” to 143 suppliers and 
applied disciplinary actions to 41 suppliers that had breached the 
contract.Contractor Management
The Company has developed the Sinopec Construction Project 
Bidding Criteria Document to integrate its HSSE management 
requirements and the Sinopec Safety Supervision and Management 
Measures for Contractors into criteria for engineering and 
construction contractors. All eligible bidders must have the 
necessary occupational health and safety, environmental and quality 
management systems to meet the criteria. The Company also 
increased the weight of HSSE evaluation results in the technical 
section of bidding document to 25%.
Community Engagement and Development
Adhering to the concept of “serving communities and contributing to the prosperity of local economy” 
where it operates, Sinopec Corp. strives to protect the environment, promote industrialisation and 
urbanisation through job creation, project investment, tax payment, and contribute to the coordinated 
economic, environmental and social development to achieve win-win development of both the Company 
and the communities where it operates. 
When conducting business overseas, we strive to be a responsible corporate citizen, respect and protect 
human rights, adhere to safe and compliant operations, support localised hiring and procurement, and 
actively manage the environmental impact of our operations. We help ensure energy supply, protect the 
environment, and support public welfare undertakings, establish good neighbourly relationship with both 
local governments and communities, and work together with them to form a partnership for promoting the 
comprehensive development of the local communities.
We actively promoted the “Cultural Integration Programme”, respecting local customs and cultural 
heritage, and we organised a variety of communication, cultural, sports and other team building activities 
to promote cross-cultural integration among employees.
In 2020, the Company organised online “Open Day” events in China, with a record number of visitors, and 
“Community Open Day” events in Saudi Arabia and Russia. The employee localisation rates in our joint-
ventures in Colombia, Angola, Russia, and Yanbu of Saudi Arabia reached 98%, 68%, 99%, and 86.7% 
respectively, and the reﬁnery in Yanbu generated 6,000 jobs both through direct hiring and in related 
supporting industries.
Employee volunteers of the UDM 
project in Russia visiting a local 
orphanage
Green
Low-
carbonEfﬁcient
Circular98% 
in ColombiaEmployee localisation rates 
in 2020:
99%
 in Russia68%
 in Angola
86.7% 
in Saudi Arabia
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation78 79
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyQuality Management Service Improvement
The Company regards product quality as its “lifeline” and strictly 
abides by relevant laws and regulations, including the Product 
Quality Law of China, the Measurement Law of China and the 
Standardisation Law of China. The Company also has formulated 
internal regulations to strictly ensure product quality and safety, such 
as the Measures for Quality Management of Reﬁned Oil Products 
and Natural Gas and the Provisions on Accountability for Reﬁned 
Oil Products and Natural Gas Quality Incidents.The Company upholds the belief of “winning market with integrity, 
and creating value with service” and strives to continuously improve 
its customer service both online and ofﬂine in accordance with 
its service standards of “enthusiastic, efﬁcient, meticulous, and 
thoughtful in service”. The Company established the Sinopec Corp. 
Customer Service Hotline (95388, 0) to provide 24-hour coordinated 
handling of customer service of all business units. In 2020, we 
innovatively launched the “one-touch refuelling service”, which 
allows service station customers to have “contactless” refuelling 
service without leaving their vehicles by using mobile App. The 
mobile App also offers other functions to drivers such as recharging, 
purchasing, online invoicing, and navigation.Product and Service Management
Sinopec Corp. adheres to the tenet of “high quality, sufﬁcient quantity and customer satisfaction” and is 
committed to providing customers and consumers with high-quality products and services by continuously 
improving its product quality management system and service efﬁciency , and taking integrity and quality 
as top priorities.Customer Rights Protection
The Company strictly abides by the Consumer Rights Protection 
Law of China and the Anti-Unfair Competition Law. The Company 
continuously improved its customer service by listening to feedback 
and suggestions from customers and consumers, conducting 
customer satisfaction surveys and analysing customer complaints. 
To do so, the Company standardised its management process of 
customer complaints, including the principles, procedures, and 
precautions regarding the handling of customer complaints.
The Company adhered to the principles of lawfulness, fairness, 
transparency, and necessity to protect customer information. It 
required full disclosure of the purpose and method for the collection 
and use of customers’ personal information, and ensures that 
they are accessed only when necessary. The Company regularly 
educated employees on information security and conﬁdentiality, 
strictly regulated the authorisation process, and actively identiﬁes 
and rectiﬁes privacy risks to comprehensively protect customer 
privacy. In 2020, there was no incident of major breach of customer 
privacy in the Company.
Sinopec Lifeline Express Programme
The Sinopec Lifeline Express (hereinafter referred to as “Lifeline 
Express”) is a mobile ophthalmic railway hospital specialised in 
charitable medical services. The Lifeline Express is equipped with 
modern ophthalmic medical equipment and has four carriages, 
including a generator car, a camping car, an operation car, and 
a ward car. Since its launch in 2004, we have donated close to 
RMB180 million to the programme and built 21 Sinopec Cataract 
Treatment Centres. By providing free surgery to low-income 
cataract patients, the programme has brought hope to more than 
46,000 patients and their families from 39 regions of 18 provinces 
and municipalities.
In 2020, the Lifeline Express came to Hezhou City of Guangxi 
Autonomous Region. We fully leveraged our network advantages 
to actively promote the programme. Sinopec volunteers spent 
their holidays to help local medical workers to conduct household 
screening in local communities. A total of 1,006 cataract patients 
were cured through the Lifeline Express during the year.Contributing to Philanthropy
Sinopec Corp. attaches great importance to fulﬁlling its social responsibilities and actively support public 
welfare activities, sharing its development results with society. In 2020, adhering to our commitment to 
giving back to society, we continued our support for public welfare activities in the ﬁelds of education, 
medical care, and caring for vulnerable groups, encouraged our employees to participate in volunteering 
services to contribute to society, and furthered our efforts to promote the normalised and sustainable 
development of public welfare undertakings.
 Reﬁned oil products
LubricantsChemical productsScored 4.82 (out of 5) based on 2.45 million  customer reviews received.
Scored 88 (out of 100), with no year-one-year change.Scored 91,4 (out of 100) based on 3,287 valid questionnaires received, with a 99% 
effectiveness rate, increased by 2.2% year-on-year. The Company also commissioned 
a third-party to carry out a special customer satisfaction survey for homopolypropylene 
and polyester products. Survey results indicated that the two products of the Company 
outperformed industry peers in overall customer satisfaction, product quality, and product 
technical services.Customer Satisfaction Survey Results in 2020:Sinopec Corp. employees staying on the frontline to serve customers 
during the pandemic
A cataract patient smiles after received surgery provided by the Sinopec 
Lifeline Express Programme
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation80 81
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyDrivers’ Home Programme for Truck Drivers
Warm Stations ProgrammeA report released by the China Road Transport Association 
estimates that there are about 30 million truck drivers in China, 
and their unique working conditions make it difﬁcult for them to eat, 
shower and wash clothes regularly. In 2019, Sinopec offered help 
with its extensive coverage of service stations by building resting 
centres, i.e., Drivers’ Home, for truck drivers at some of its service 
stations. Truck drivers could receive core services, such as secured 
parking space, self-serviced water supply, eating, showering and 
laundry services, and areas for resting, at these Drivers’ Homes. 
Some of them also offered additional services, including vehicle 
maintenance, road rescue, fuel theft insurance, tips and education, 
access to information services, vehicle registration services, legal 
aid, and mobile phone charging, etc. 
By the end of 2020, we had built 575 qualiﬁed Drivers’ Homes in 23 
provinces. In Guangdong Province alone, we have built 99 Drivers’ 
Homes that meet the qualiﬁcation standards of the Ministry of 
Transportation, becoming the ﬁrst enterprise in China with province-
wide coverage of Drives’ Home at all Sinopec service stations 
along expressways and national and provincial highways within the 
province. We plan to build another 3,000 Drivers’ Homes in the next 
two years.
Since 2013, we have been launching the Warm Station, Going 
Home with Love programme at our service stations to help home 
bound migrant workers before the Chinese New Year for eight 
consecutive years. In January 2020, we worked together with 30 
partner organisations in Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hunan and 
Jiangxi to offer free refuelling service, short-term accident insurance 
protection and other travel supplies to homebound migrant workers 
at our service stations. During the Chinese New Year holidays, we 
had served over 40 million migrant workers cumulatively.
Sanitation Workers’ Stations Programme
The Sinopec Sanitation Workers’ Station Programme was ofﬁcially 
launched in 2016 to welcome sanitation workers to use Sinopec 
service stations to rest and enjoy some convenient services. The 
programme later expanded to Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei, Yangtze River 
Delta, Pearl River Delta, and Sichuan and Chongqing. By 2020, 
the Sanitation Workers’ Station Programme reached a coverage 
of 1,604 gas stations and 744 service stations nationwide. During 
the pandemic, we also provided free masks to trafﬁc police and 
sanitation workers at these locations to support these front-line 
heroes who stuck to their posts during the pandemic to provide 
necessary public services for society.575 qualiﬁed Drivers’ Homes established
  Sinopec Lifeline Express arrived in Hezhou City, Guangxi
Key Performance
Environmental Performance
Methane emission (million cubic metres)
Oil & gas exploration and production segment
Reﬁning and chemicals segment
Marketing segmentGHGs emission (million tonnes CO2- equivalent ) 1
Direct GHGs emission
Indirect GHGs emission
Oil & gas exploration and production segment
Reﬁning and chemicals segment
Marketing segment
GHGs emission intensity (tonnes CO2-equivalent / RMB1 million) 2
CO2 capture (thousand tonnes)
Methane recovery (million cubic metres)
-
-
-
--
-
-
-171.52
128.57
42.95
31.26
137.65
2.61
59.32
1,010
226170.69
125.68
45.01
23.18
144.93
2.58
57.55
1,263
397
283.56
245.98
23.75
13.83170.94
128.58
42.36
24.42
144.32
2.20
81.17
1,290
600
IndicatorsIndicators
20182018
20192019
20202020
GHGs emissions and management
Note:
1. The Company conducts GHGs emission (direct and indirect) accounting and veriﬁcation according to ISO14064-1:2006 standards, covering six gases including carbon dioxide (CO2), 
    methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydro ﬂuoro carbons (HFCs), perﬂuorinated compounds (PFCs) and sulphur hexaﬂuoride (SF6). 
2. GHGs emissions intensity = Greenhouse gas emission / revenue (in RMB million). 40 million 
migrant workers served 
cumulatively744
Sanitation Workers’ 
Station
Guangxi Beihai Oil Product Company donated supplies to sanitation 
workers in the celebration of the Sanitation Workers’ Day.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation82 83
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietySocial Performance
Employment
Total number of employees
Male employees
Female employees
Percentage of female employees (%)
Employees below 30 years of age
Employees between 31 and 50 years of age
Employees over 51 years of age
Employees newly hired during reporting period
Employees turnover during reporting period
Employee turnover rate (%)
Turnover rate of employees below 30 years of age (%)
Turnover rate of employees between 31 and 50 years of age (%)
Turnover rate of employees over 51 years of age (%)
Percentage of female employees in management (%)
Collective contract coverage (%)
Social insurance coverage (%)
Enterprise annuity coverage (%)
Percentage of ethnic minority employees(%)
Percentage of employees with labour union membership (%)423,543
-
-
35
-
-
-
-
-
0.8
-
-
-
12.67
100
100
79.19
3.8
100402,206
-
-
33.8
-
-
-
-
-
0.8
-
-
-
12.38
100
100
80.57
3.7
100384,065
257,053
127,012
33.1
40,076
254,948
89,041
16,011
13,963
0.69
1.5
0.5
0.3
12.59
100
100
80.59
3.8
100Indicators 2018 2019 2020
Consumption of comprehensive energy per RMB10,000 of production value 
(tonne of standard coal)
Consumption of crude oil (million tonnes)
Consumption of natural gas (billion cubic metres)
Consumption of purchased electricity (billion kWh)
Consumption of coal (million tonnes)
Fresh water withdrawal for industrial use (million cubic metres) 0.496
1.33
3.83
30.57
15.18
657.460.494
1.21
4.14
32.26
14.77
650.360.490
1.07
3.78
30.83
15.00
643.20Indicators 2018 2019 2020
Energy and resources
Note:
1. Refers to the total amount of non-hazardous waste that disposed by qualiﬁed third-parties. 
2. Refers to the total amount of hazardous waste entrusted for disposal by qualiﬁed third-parties.Sulphur dioxide (thousand tonnes)
Nitrogen oxides (thousand tonnes)
COD (thousand tonnes)
Ammonia and nitrogen (thousand tonnes)
Non-hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 1
Weight of disposed hazardous waste (thousand tonnes) 267.2
99.8
19.4
2.0
2,229.0
505.364.6
95.9
19.0
1.96
2,115.32
642.361.9
92.0
18.6
1.92
1,710.8
731.1Indicators 2018 2019 2020
Emissions, efﬂuents and wastes
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation84 85
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyNumber of patients cured under the Lifeline Express Programme 3,456 2,376 1,006Indicators 2018 2019 2020
Public welfareEmployee training
Investment in vocational training (10,000 RMB)
Vocational training coverage (%)
Total amount of vocational training (hours)
Average training hours of employees (hours)
Average training hours of male employees 
Average training hours of female employees 
Average training hours of senior management staff
Average training hours of mid-level management staff 
Average training hours of grassroots employees 
Vocational training participation (person-time)
Online training participation (person-time)
       Total amount of online training (hours)
Training participation rate of male employees (%)
Training participation rate of female employees (%)
Training participation rate of senior management staff (%)
Training participation rate of mid-level management staff (%)
Training participation rate of grassroots employees (%) 748.08
75
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
936,143
-
-
-
-
-
-
-850.21
78.2
10,190,302
25.34
49.48
49.83
40.57
41.62
50.26
985,612 
5,014,143 
101,903 
 33.95   
34.84 
81.18 
44.61 
35.77875.04
85.7
12,853,165
33.47
52.61
53.53
52.21
48.65
45.62
1,536,501 
1,259,800 
27,721,300 
36.85 
35.62 
95.6 
92.5 
85.6Indicators 2018 2019 2020
Employee occupational health examination coverage (%)
Health examination and health record coverage (%)
Number of newly diagnosed cases of occupational diseases
Safety training coverage of frontline employees (%)
Training participation rate of special operation personnel (%)
Number of accidents reported
Number of deaths due to production safety accidents
Total recorded accident (Incident) rate (per 200,000 working-hours, %)
Fatal accident rate (per 200,000 working-hours, %)99
99
15
100
100
2
3
-
-99
99
15
100
100
1
1
-
-99.9
99.9
10
100
100
3
3
0.1062
0.00072Indicators
Indicators2018
20182019
20192020
2020
Workplace health and safety
Supply chain
Number of suppliers passed qualiﬁcation assessment
Percentage of suppliers qualiﬁed by QHSE management system (%)
Number of suppliers qualified by the quality management system (ISO 
9000)
Percentage of suppliers qualiﬁed by the quality management system (ISO 
9000) (%)
Number of suppliers qualified by the environmental management system 
(ISO 14000)
Percentage of suppliers qualiﬁed by the environmental management system 
(ISO 14000) (%)
Number of suppliers qualified by the occupational health and safety 
management system (ISO 18000)
Percentage of suppliers qualified by the occupational health and safety 
management system (ISO 18000) (%)-
26.0
9,614
47.3
6,071
29.9
5,621
27.718,646
31.1
9,312
49.9
6,463
34.7
6,108
32.821,446
31.3
10,327
48.2
7,412
34.6
7,044
32.8
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation86 87
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyThe Board of Directors’ Responsibilities2021/SH-0196          
(Page2/3)
The Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for the preparation of the selected key data in the 
2020 Sustainability Report in accordance with the basis of reporting. This responsibility includes designing, 
implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation of the selected key data in the 
2020 Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
Our Independence and Quality Control 
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirement of the International Code of Ethics 
for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) issued by the International 
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, 
professional competence and due care, conﬁdentiality and professional behaviour . 
Our ﬁrm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive 
system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical 
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Practitioner’s Responsibilities
It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on the selected key data in the 2020 Sustainability Report 
based on our work.  
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 
(Revised) “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”.  This 
standard requires that we plan and perform our work to form the conclusion. 
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are 
less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently the level of assurance in a 
limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained 
had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable 
assurance opinion about whether the Company’s 2020 selected key data in the 2020 Sustainability Report 
has been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the basis of reporting. Our work involves 
assessing the risks of material misstatement of the selected key data in the 2020 Sustainability Report 
whether due to fraud or error, and responding to the assessed risks. The extent of procedures selected 
depends on our judgment and assessment of the engagement risk. Within the scope of our work, we have 
performed the following procedures in the Head Ofﬁce, Sinopec Beijing Oil Products Company and Sinopec 
Shanghai Petrochemical Company Limited. We have not conducted work in other subsidiaries. 
1) Interviews with relevant departments of the Company involved in providing information for the selected key data within 
the Sustainability Report; and 
2)  Analytical procedure;
3)  Examination, on a test basis, of documentary evidence relating to the selected key data on which we report;
4)  Recalculation; and
5)  Other procedures deemed necessary.Independent Assurance Report
Independent practitioner’s assurance report2021/SH-0196
 (Page1/3)
To the Board of Directors of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation
We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the selected 2020 key data as 
deﬁned below in the 2020 Sustainability Report of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (the “Company”).
Selected Key Data
The selected key data in the Company’s 2020 Sustainability Report that is covered by this report is as 
follows:
• GHGs emission (million tonnes CO2-equivalent)
• Direct GHGs emission (million tonnes CO2-equivalent) 
• Indirect GHGs emission (million tonnes CO2-equivalent) 
• CO2 capture (thousand tonnes)
• Consumption of crude oil (million tonnes)
• Consumption of natural gas (billion cubic metres)
• Consumption of purchased electricity (billion kWh)
• Consumption of coal (million tonnes)
• Weight of hazardous waste disposed by third-parties(thousand tonnes)
• Number of accidents reported
• Number of deaths due to production safety accidents 
• Total number of employees
• Employee turnover rate (%)
• Number of patients cured under the Lifeline Express Programme 
Our assurance was with respect to the year ended 31 December 2020 information only and we have 
not performed any procedures with respect to earlier periods or any other elements included in the 2020 
Sustainability Report.
Criteria
The criteria used by the Company to prepare the selected key data in the 2020 Sustainability Report is set 
out in the basis of reporting of the key data (the “basis of reporting”) after this assurance report.
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation88 89
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyGHGs emission (million tonnes of CO2-equivalent): 
GHGs emission disclosed herein refers to the sum of direct GHGs 
emission and indirect GHGs emission produced by the production 
operation subsidiaries of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation.
Direct GHGs emission (million tonnes of CO2-equivalent): 
Direct GHGs emission disclosed herein refers to direct GHGs 
emission from ﬁxed emission source, mobile emission source, 
process emission source and escape emission source produced 
by the production operation subsidiaries of China Petroleum & 
Chemical Corporation.
Indirect GHGs emission (million tonnes of CO2-equivalent): 
Indirect GHGs emission herein refers to indirect greenhouse 
gas emissions resulting from the consumption of purchased 
electricity, purchased heat (steam), etc by the production operation 
subsidiaries of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation.
CO2 capture (thousand tonnes): 
CO2 capture herein refers to the total amount of carbon dioxide 
captured by reﬁnery enterprises of China Petroleum & Chemical 
Corporation in carbon dioxide recovery work.
Consumption of crude oil (million tonnes): 
Consumption of crude oil herein refers to total end-use crude oil 
consumed by industrial subsidiaries of China Petroleum & Chemical 
Corporation.
Consumption of natural gas (billion cubic metres): 
Consumption of natural gas herein refers to total end-use natural 
gas consumed by industrial subsidiaries of China Petroleum & 
Chemical Corporation.
Consumption of purchased electricity (billion kWh): 
Consumption of purchased electricity herein refers to the difference 
between total consumption of electricity of industrial subsidiaries of 
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation and their self-generated 
electricity.Consumption of coal (million tonnes): 
Consumption of coal herein refers to total coal consumed by 
industrial subsidiaries of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation.
Weight of hazardous waste disposed by third-parties (thousand tons): 
Weight of disposed hazardous waste herein refers to the total 
weight of hazardous waste entrusted for process and disposal, 
which is collected in the Environmental Protection Information 
System of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation.
Number of accidents reported: 
Number of accidents reported herein refers to the number of 
General Grade A and higher accidents that occurred of China 
Petroleum & Chemical Corporation. A General Grade A accident 
means an accident in which some person died.
Number of deaths due to production safety accidents: 
Number of deaths due to production safety accidents herein 
refers to the number of permanent employees that are eventually 
conﬁrmed dead in General Grade A accidents of China Petroleum & 
Chemical Corporation.
Total number of employees: 
Total number of employees herein refers to the total number of 
employees who has signed full-time employment contracts with 
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation, excluding dispatched 
employees.
Employee turnover rate (%): 
Employee turnover rate herein refers to the proportion of the number 
of employees whose labor contracts were terminated by China 
Petroleum & Chemical Corporation for personal reasons (excluding 
ordinary employees such as gas station operators).
Number of patients cured under the Lifeline Express Programme: 
Number of patients cured under the Lifeline Express Programme 
herein refers to the number of patients who have undergone 
rehabilitation surgery in the Lifeline Express Programme, which was 
launched by China Healthy Express Foundation in reporting year 
and supported by China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation.Inherent Limitation2021/SH-0196
          (Page3/3)
The absence of a signiﬁcant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-
ﬁnancial information allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can 
affect comparability between entities.
Conclusion
Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes 
us to believe that the 2020 selected key data in the 2020 Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all 
material respects, in accordance with the basis of reporting.
Restriction on Use
Our report has been prepared for and only for the board of directors of the Company and for no other 
purpose. We do not assume responsibility towards or accept liability to any other person for the content of 
this report.
PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian LLP
Shanghai, China
March 26, 2021Appendices:
Compilation and Reporting Basis of Key Data
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation90 91
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyAspect B1: 
Employment
Aspect B3: 
Development 
and Training
Aspect B4: 
Labour StandardsAspect B2: 
Health and SafetyGeneral Disclosure Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 
that have a signiﬁcant impact on the issuer relating to compensation and dismissal, recruitment and 
promotion, working hours, rest periods, equity opportunity, diversity, anti-discrimination, and other beneﬁts 
and welfare.
General Disclosure: Policies on improving employees’ knowledge and skills for discharging duties at work. 
Description of training activities.
General Disclosure Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 
that have a signiﬁcant impact on the issuer relating to preventing child and forced labour .General Disclosure Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 
that have a signiﬁcant impact on the issuer relating to providing a safe working environment and protecting 
employees from occupational hazards.KPI B1.1
KPI B1.2
KPI B3.1
KPI B3.2
KPI B4.1
KPI B4.2KPI B2.1
KPI B2.2
KPI B2.3Total workforce by gender, employment type (for example, full- or part- time), age group and 
geographical region.
Employee turnover rate by gender, age group and geographical region.
The percentage of employees trained by gender and employee category (e.g. senior 
management, middle management).
The average training hours completed per employee by gender and employee category.
Description of measures to review employment practices to avoid child and forced labour.
Description of steps taken to eliminate such practices when discovered.Number and rate of work-related fatalities occurred in each of the past three years including the 
reporting year.
Lost days due to work injury.
Description of occupational health and safety measures adopted, and how they are implemented 
and monitored.B. Social
Employment and Labour PracticesSubject Areas, Aspects, General Disclosures and KPIs Pages
Report Content Indexes
HKEX ESG Reporting Guide Content Index
Aspect A1: 
Emissions
Aspect A2: 
Use of Resources
Aspect A3: 
The Environment 
and Natural 
Resources
Aspect A4: 
Climate ChangeGeneral Disclosure Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 
that have a signiﬁcant impact on the issuer relating to air and greenhouse gas emissions, discharges into 
water and land, and generation of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
General Disclosure: Policies on the efﬁcient use of resources, including energy , water and other raw 
materials.
General Disclosure: Policies on minimizing the issuer’s signiﬁcant impacts on the environment and natural 
resources.
General Disclosure: Policies on identiﬁcation and mitigation of signiﬁcant climate-related issues which have 
impacted, and those which may impact, the issuer.KPI A1.1
KPI A1.2
KPI A1.3
KPI A1.4
KPI A1.5
KPI A1.6
KPI A2.1
KPI A2.2
KPI A2.3
KPI A2.4
KPI A2.5
KPI A3.1
KPI A4.1The types of emissions and respective emissions data.
Direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions (in tonnes) and, 
where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility).
Total hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of 
production volume, per facility).
Total non-hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit 
of production volume, per facility).
Description of emissions target(s) set and steps taken to achieve them.
Description of how hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are handled, and a description of 
reduction target(s) set and steps taken to achieve them.
Direct and/or indirect energy consumption by type (e.g. electricity, gas or oil) in total (kWh in 
’000s) and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility).
Water consumption in total and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility).
Description of energy use efﬁciency target(s) set and steps taken to achieve them.
Description of whether there is any issue in sourcing water that is ﬁt for purpose, water efﬁciency 
target(s) set and steps taken to achieve them.
Total packaging material used for ﬁnished products (in tonnes) and, if applicable, with reference 
to per unit produced.
Description of the signiﬁcant impacts of activities on the environment and natural resources and 
the actions taken to manage them.
Description of the signiﬁcant climate-related issues which have impacted, and those which may 
impact, the issuer, and the actions taken to manage them.A: Environmental
Subject Areas, Aspects, General Disclosures and KPIs Pages
37, 51-55
34-45
53-56
57-58
84
84
35-39
57
48-50, 59
51-52, 87
32-34
35-45-83
83
84
8470-71
62-6485
85
86
86
64-67, 72
74-75
87
87
70
70
70
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation92 93
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyUNGC Ten Principles Index
Pages
TCFD Index
TCFD recommended disclosures Pages
Human Rights
Labour
Environment
Anti-CorruptionBusinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human 
rights; and
Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the 
right to collective bargaining;
The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
The effective abolition of child labour; and
The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges
Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.Scope UNGC’s Ten Principles
Governance : Disclose the organisation’s governance around climate-related issues and opportunities.
a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities.
b) Describe the management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities.
Strategy : Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s business, 
strategy and ﬁnancial planning where such information is material.
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identiﬁed over the short, medium, and long term.
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and ﬁnancial 
planning.
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including 
a 2°C or lower scenario.
Risk Management : Disclose how the organisation identiﬁes, assesses and manages climate-related risks.
a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s 
overall risk management.
Metrics and Targets : Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and 
opportunities where such information is material.
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and 
risk management process
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against 
targets.
Subject Areas, Aspects, General Disclosures and KPIs Pages
Aspect B5:
Supply Chain 
Management
Aspect B6: 
Product 
Responsibility
Aspect B7: 
Anti- corruptionGeneral Disclosure: Policies on managing environmental and social risks of the supply chain.
General Disclosure Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 
that have a signiﬁcant impact on the issuer relating to health and safety , advertising, labelling and privacy 
matters relating to products and services provided and methods of redress.
General Disclosure Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 
that have a signiﬁcant impact on the issuer relating to bribery, extortion, fraud and money laundering.KPI B5.1
KPI B5.2
KPI B5.3
KPI B5.4
KPI B6.1
KPI B6.2
KPI B6.3
KPI B6.4
KPI B6.5
KPI B7.1
KPI B7.2
KPI B7.3Number of suppliers by geographical region.
Description of practices relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers where the practices 
are being implemented, and how they are implemented and monitored.
Description of practices used to identify environmental and social risks along the supply chain, 
and how they are implemented and monitored.
Description of practices used to promote environmentally preferable products and services when 
selecting suppliers, and how they are implemented and monitored.
Percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to recalls for safety and health reasons.
Number of products and service related complaints received and how they are dealt with.
Description of practices relating to observing and protecting intellectual property rights.
Description of quality assurance process and recall procedures.
Description of consumer data protection and privacy policies, and how they are implemented 
and monitored.
Number of concluded legal cases regarding corrupt practices brought against the issuer or its 
employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of the cases.
Description of preventive measures and whistle-blowing procedures, and how they are 
implemented and monitored.
Description of anti-corruption training provided to directors and staff.B. Social
Operating Practices
Aspect B8: 
Community 
InvestmentGeneral Disclosure: Policies on community engagement to understand the needs of the communities where 
the issuer operates and to ensure its activities take into consideration the communities’ interests.
KPI B8.1
KPI B8.2Focus areas of contribution (e.g. education, environmental concerns, labour needs, health, 
culture, sport).
Resources contributed (e.g. money or time) to the focus area.
Community
78
78
78
78
80
80
80
8019, 27
19-21
21
2120-21-86
7-9, 10-13
79, 81-82
7-9, 79, 87
10-1370
7070
70
70-71
32-34, 48
35-45, 53-59
19-2135-45, 51-5271
4, 32
32
33-34
33-34
32-34
83-8432-45
32-3432-34
32-45, 57-58-
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation94 95
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
SocietyDear Readers,
Thank you for reading this report. Your opinions and suggestions are important to us and can help us improve the 
preparation of future reports. Please help us by completing the following Feedback Form and sending it to the following 
address:
Office of the Board
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation
No.22 Chaoyangmen North Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100728, PRC
Your Information
Name:                                                         
Organisation:                     Title:                                 
Tel:                    Fax:                    E-mail:          
This report provides a complete and accurate description of the signiﬁcant economic, 
social and environmental impacts of Sinopec Corp.
This report responds to and discloses information about the concerns of stakeholders.
The information, indicators and data disclosed in this report are clear, accurate and complete.
This report is easy to read, i.e., its structure, content, wording and layout are well designed.
1. What do you like the most of this report?
2. What other information do you think that should be included in this report?
3. What are your suggestions that how we can better prepare our sustainable development progress report in the future?Feedback
Very good / Good / Fair / Poor/ Very poor Content
Scope Criteria for UNGC Advanced Level Pages
Criterion 1: Key aspects of the Company’s advanced level sustainability strategy 
                  in line with Global Compact principles
Criterion 2: Effective decision-making processes and systems of governance 
                  for corporate sustainability
Criterion 3: Engagement with all important stakeholders
Criterion 4: Actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issue
Criterion 5: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights
Criterion 6: Effective management systems to integrate the human rights principle
Criterion 7: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration
Criterion 8: Key outcomes of the human rights integration
Criterion 9: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of Labour
Criterion 10: Effective management systems to integrate the Labour principle
Criterion 11: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of the labour 
                    principle integration
Criterion 12: Key outcomes of the Labour principle integration
Criterion 13: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental 
                    stewardship
Criterion 14: Effective management systems to integrate the environmental principle
Criterion 15: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental 
                    stewardship
Criterion 16: Key outcomes of the environmental principle integration
Criterion 17: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti-corruption
Criterion 18: Effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle
Criterion 19: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of 
                    anti-corruption
Criterion 20: Key outcomes of the anti-corruption principle integration
Criterion 21: Implementation of the Global Compact principles in the value chain
Criterion 22: The COP provides information on the Company’s proﬁle and context 
                    of operation
Criterion 23: The COP incorporates high standards of transparency and disclosure
Criterion 24: The COP is independently veriﬁed by a credible third-party
Strategy Governance 
and Engagement
UN Goals and Issues
Labour Principles 
Implementation
Anti-Corruption
ImplementationHuman Rights
Implementation
Environmental
Stewardship
Implementation
Value Chain Implementation
Transparency 
and Veriﬁcation2-3, 16
23, 32, 48-50, 62, 70, 78
27, 78-79, 81-82
26
70-71
23, 70-71
23, 70-71
70-75
70-71
23, 70-75
23, 70-75
85-87
33-34, 48, 51-59
39, 41-45, 51-59
19-21
19-21
19-21
78-79
88-90About this report
About this report20-2152-58
48-50UNGC Advanced Level Criteria Index
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation96 97
2020 Sustainability Report Concerted Efforts to Fight 
Against the Covid-19 EpidemicTopic 1 Achieving Poverty Eradication Goals 
with Unwavering Commitment Topic 2 Corporate 
GovernanceAddressing 
Climate ChangeEnvironmental 
ProtectionSafety 
ManagementRespecting Human 
RightsContributing to 
Society