New Era  New Journey  Powering a Better Life for YouSinopec Corp. 
Communication on Progress  for Sustainable DevelopmentReport Information
Report Description
This COP covers our business activities from 1 January to 
31 December 2017. The information herein comes from internal data, materials from our subsidiaries, and official documents and statistical reports. The Company's Board of Directors approved the Report on March 23, 2018. The report is available in Chinese and English. If there is any conflict or inconsistency, the Chinese version shall prevail. The report can be downloaded at the website: http://www.sinopec.com/listco/en/csr/pdf/zlkj.shtml.
References
This COP is prepared in accordance with Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the criteria of the Global Compact Advanced Communication on Progress, the Guideline on Environmental Information Disclosure by Listed Companies of Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), as well as the Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide of Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEx) and by reference to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards.
Disclaimer
This COP includes certain forward-looking statements with respect to the results of our business operations and certain plans and conditions. All statements that address activities, events or developments that we expect will or may occur in the future, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements and by their nature involve risk and uncertainty. This means that actual results may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statement due to a number of factors and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are made by March 23, 2018 and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements unless required by an appropriate regulatory authority.The 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable 
Development (hereinafter referred to "COP") is the twelfth sustainability report from China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (hereinafter referred to as "Sinopec Corp.", "the Company" or "We"). The theme of this year's COP is New Era, New Journey: Powering a Better Life for You. The COP introduces our efforts promoting economic growth, social development and environment protection, and highlights how we responded to stakeholder expectations in 2017.
Content
Board Statements
About Us0204
54555862OutlookKey PerformanceIndexFeedbackInnovation-Driven
Implementing New Concept of 
Development
Pursuing Common Development
Serving the People for a Better Life
Advancing Openness and Win-Win 
Cooperation
Contributing to Community of a 
Shared FutureDeepening Reform
Being an Enterprise with Scientific and 
Normative   Governance in the New Era
Promoting Green Development
Progressing in Safety, Ecological and 
Environmental Protection10
16
24
36
48
02
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Board Statements
on the large-scale, integrated and 
concentralised development of the industry.  By upgrading the quality of refined oil, we supplied clean gasoline and diesel for vehicles qualifying National V and VI emission standards. We also took advantage of the sales network to provide customers with high quality oil products and diversified commodities, and attached more importance to developing fine chemicals, biochemicals and new materials. The Three Synthetic Materials are heading for high-end, green and ecological, and energy-saving upgrade.
In 2017, we paid RMB 328.3 billion of 
taxes and fees, declared RMB 60.5 billion of dividends to shareholders, provided society with 199 million tonnes of refined oil products and 78.5 million tonnes of chemical products.
Emerging business brings new 
momentum.  Sinopec EPEC, the largest 
e-commerce platform for industrial products in China, has become the 35 years ago, Sinopec was founded during the period 
of reform and opening up in China and has shouldered responsibilities of realising development, rejuvenating the petrochemical industry and improving people’s life since then. Today, when stepping into a new era, we should remain true to our original aspiration and keep our mission firmly in mind. We will promote high quality development, develop high-end products, and embrace the tendency of electrification, market-orientation, digitalisation and ‘greenisation’, fostering drivers of growth and achieving comprehensive and sustainable development of Sinopec Corp.
Dear friends,
First of all, on behalf of the Board, 
I would like to express our heartfelt thanks for your attention and support.
2017 is a milestone in China history. 
Socialism with Chinese characteristics enters a new era while our people have ever-growing needs for a better life; a two-step approach should be taken 
to build China into a great modern 
socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful by the middle of the century. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development has been launched in full swing across the world. In particular, joint efforts have been made in material Issues such as addressing climate change 
and eradicating poverty.
Sinopec Corp. is committed to 
sustainability, protecting the environment and building a harmonious society. When realising the development, we commit to contributing to our country, rewarding our shareholders, serving our community and benefiting our employees. We hope to present our confidence in realising the comprehensive and sustainable development and our efforts in the environment protection and social contribution during daily communication with stakeholders and through the Report. 
Reform and development contributes 
to the real economy. China’s economy has been transitioning from a phase of rapid growth to a stage of high-quality development. In 2017, we pursued supply-side structural reform as our main task, focused on improving the quality and efficiency of our operations and satisfying people’s individualised, diversified and escalating needs. We enhanced the exploitation of natural gas and non-conventional energy with Fuling shale gas field has built up an annual capacity of 10 billion cubic meters. We promoted the construction of refining chemical bases to focus 
03
 Board Statements
only e-commerce platform for BRICKS 
countries, triggered more effective demands and built interconnected economic exchanges as well as a mutually beneficial environment along the “Belt and Road”. With utilising advantages of the refined oil products sales network by more than 20,000 service stores, non-fuel business has been a new growth point. Besides, we developed various businesses such as CNG, power battery business, as well as charging stations, gas stations and hydrogen stations.
Technological innovation provides 
“engine” for development. In 2017, we 
conducted the technological innovation centering on alternatives of upstream resources, natural gas development, restructure and upgrading of oil refining, “basic + high-end” structure adjustment in chemical segment, new strategic emerging businesses such as biomass energy, new energy and new materials, as well as the construction of intelligent pipelines and intelligent factories. Throughout the year, we won 2 National Technology Invention Awards and 3 National Science and Technology Progress Awards, applied for 5,876 patents and obtained 3,640 patents. 
Green and low-carbon strategy 
promotes a green enterprise.  We 
strengthened the risk management covering production safety, environmental protection and climate change. We implemented the Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) management system to guarantee production safety 
and secure employees’ personal 
safety and occupational health. We also enhanced the quality & safety environment certification for contractors and suppliers as well as negative list management. To address climate change, we continuously reduced energy consumption and improved energy efficiency, promoted carbon dioxide capture, methane recovery and reduction, enhanced waste heat recycling and application of solar power , and achieved new progress in bio-jet fuels. Moreover, we continued to strengthen pollutant discharge management, biodiversity protection and soil remediation where we operate. 
Openness and win-win cooperation 
build a harmonious society. Both the support of local people and our employees are indispensable in the development of the Company. We respect and guarantee human rights, oppose discrimination in all forms, and promote employees’ decent work. We value staffing and procurement localisation and drive the development of local society by paying tax, enhancing professional skill training, aiding infrastructure construction and education. Throughout the year, we invested RMB 128 million in targeted poverty alleviation focusing on infrastructure construction, industrial assistance, educational support and healthcare & medical service provision, etc. Every year, we carry out the “Warm Station” public welfare activity. Sinopec “Brightness” Lifeline Express has cured over 40,000 cataract patients in poverty free of charge for 13 consecutive years. We are open to social supervision through Sinopec Open Day, social supervisors and new media platforms.Dai Houliang
Vice Chairman, President
March 23, 2018
Corporate governance lays a solid foundation for development.  Beside 
with the rights of General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors, the Board of Supervisors and independent directors, in 2017, the Company revised the Articles of 
Association  incorporating the role of 
the Party organisations into corporate governance. We further enhanced compliance and anti-corruption efforts to strengthen supervision, and create an open, just, transparent and honest development environment.
The sustainability of Sinopec Corp. 
is attributed to the support and trust of stakeholders. A company should remain true to the original aspiration and move forward bravely no matter what she will confront; the success of a business also needs to keep the mission firmly in mind and repay the society. Looking ahead, we will insist on comprehensively sustainable development, adhering to the concept of “big enterprise undertakes greater responsibility”, and powering for a better life for you!04
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
About Us
Sinopec Corp. Overview
•  Sinopec Corp. is a large Chinese 
petroleum and petrochemical enterprise.
•  At the end of 2017, our proven 
petroleum and natural gas reserves totaled 1,599 million barrels and 6,997 billion cubic feet respectively.
•  The national shale gas 
demonstration zone, Sinopec Fuling shale gas field with a production capacity of 10 billion cubic meters annually, is the largest shale gas field in the world outside North America. 
•  Our main oil and gas assets are 
located in China and we also have four projects located in Kazakhstan, Russia, Colombia and Angola respectively. •  Sinopec Corp. ranks first in global 
refining capacity. 
•  At the end of 2017, our primary 
distillation capacity of crude oil was 295 million tonnes annually. Our primary facilities are located in China and we also invest in a refining project in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia. 
•  In 2017, we processed 239 million 
tonnes of crude oil. •  Sinopec Corp. is equipped 
with comprehensive refined oil products sales network, with the number of service stations ranking first in the world.
•  At the end of 2017, 30,633 service 
stations carried the Sinopec logo, and the total number of fuel cards reached 132 million.
•  Non-fuel business becomes a 
new growth point.
Exploration and Production Refining Marketing and Distribution05
About Us
•  Sinopec Corp. is the first in China 
and fourth globally in ethylene production capacity. Our main products include synthetic resin, synthetic fiber and synthetic rubber. We invest in a joint venture project in Russia.
•  We produced 11.61 million tonnes 
of ethylene in 2017. •  Sinopec Corp. has the capacity 
and technology to build refining facilities at the ten-million tonnage level, and ethylene facilities at the million tonnage level.•  Sinopec Corp. is the largest trader 
of crude oil in China. In 2017,  we traded 339 million tonnes of crude oil with 209 million tonnes imported.
•  Sinopec Corp. owns 13 wharfs 
of more than 200,000 DWT, with a total capacity of 326 million tonnes. Chemicals Technology R&D International Trade 06
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Sinopec Corp. fulfils its responsibilities as a global corporate citizen by 
conducting business that serves society. We integrate a people-oriented 
approach to corporate culture and practices.
Core Values of Sinopec Corp.•  Our diversified portfolio, including energy resources such as crude oil and natural gas, refined oil 
products such as gasoline, diesel and kerosene, and petrochemical products with thousands of varieties, contributes to social and economic development and satisfies hundreds of millions of families. 
•  We operate honestly and pay taxes in accordance with the law to contribute to national revenue 
and boost social development and prosperity. 
•  We commit to realising sustainable development of the Company and upholding stable and 
continuous dividend pay-out policy to return to shareholders.
•  We focus on leading and cooperating with our partners along the upstream and downstream 
industrial chain, aiming to enhance sustainability and achieve win-win results. 
•  We guarantee employee rights, provide good working environment and optimise career 
development channels that show respect for our employees and promote decent work. 
•  We engage in local communities by safeguarding community safety, protecting the environment, 
participating in local economic development projects, carrying out poverty alleviation programmes and sharing our corporate development with local residents.
People
Responsibility
Integrity 
ExcellenceInnovation Collaboration
Core Values of 
Sinopec Corp.07
About Us
Performance in 2017
billion billion
billion billion %billion 328.3 2,360.2
51.12457.4
60.54 118.4Taxes and fees paid (RMB) Revenue (RMB)
Net profits attributable to shareholders (RMB)Social contributions (RMB)
Dividends declared (RMB) Dividends pay-out ratio
%
million tonnes million tonnesmillion million446,225
151.88
162.66100
128.22
5.4241,172Total number of employees
Donations (RMB)
GHG emissions (CO2-equivalent)Safety training coverage
Input in targeted poverty alleviation (RMB)
GHG reductions (CO2-equivalent)Patients cured under the Lifeline 
Express Programme (accumulative)%100Ethics training coverage08
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
2017 Honours
Sinopec Corp. was named 
Chinese Model of Low Carbon Performance and Responsible Enterprise by China News Service and China Newsweek  for 7 
consecutive years.
Sinopec Corp. was named Most Honoured Enterprise in the “Best Management Team in Asia in 2017” campaign, and Best Investor Relations, Best Analyst Day, Best Corporate Website and Best Investor Relations Professionals in the Asian energy industry by Institutional Investor Magazine. Sinopec Corp. won Best Innovative Recruitment Practice Award at HR Selection Awards in Greater China 2017.Mr. Dai Houliang, Vice Chairman and President of Sinopec Corp., was elected member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.Sinopec Corp. received Level-A rating in the SSE’s 2016 -2017 information disclosure assessment of listed companies.
Sinopec Lubricant won the 2017 C-BPI Golden Brand Award granted by China Brand Research Center of MIIT, and was named National Quality and Integrity Model Enterprise by China Association for Quality Inspection.Sinopec Corp. received Special Contribution Award from Lifeline Express Council for the 13
th consecutive years.
EPEC, one of the e-commerce platforms of Sinopec Corp., was selected as Best Practice of Chinese Enterprise in Realising SDGs by the Global Compact Network China.
Sinopec Corp. received 
Award for Listed Company with Best Investment Value during 13
th Five-Year Plan 
and Best Board Secretary of Listed Companies at the 2017 China Securities Golden Bauhinia Awards.Sinopec Corp. received two National Quality Golden Engineering Awards, the highest honour for engineering construction quality in China.09
About Us
Stakeholder Engagement and Material Issues
•  Through continued communications, discussions and reports with authorities, we outlined the issues which mattered most to 
them, including tax paying, innovation, safety, ecological protection and targeted poverty alleviation.
•  Through performance conferences, meetings with investors, teleconferences, online interaction, and the E-platform of SSE, 
we outlined the issues which mattered most to them, including sustainable development, shareholder returns and climate change.
•  Through daily communication, visits, interviews and surveys with customers, we outlined the issues which mattered most to 
them, including product diversification, quality and service.
•  Through face-to-face communication with NGOs and rating agencies as well as questionnaires, we outlined the issues which 
mattered most to them, including risk management, human rights, safety, environmental protection, greenhouse gas emission and anti-corruption.
•  Through Open-day activities, we outlined the issues which mattered most to communities, including protection of community 
residents’ rights.The trust and support of our stakeholders is a fundamental approach of Sinopec Corp. to sustainable development. We make progress through our partnerships with all stakeholders jointly pursuing values such as prosperity, democracy, civility, harmony, freedom, equality, justice, the rule of law, patriotism, dedication, integrity and friendship. We promote a sustainable development based on economic growth, protecting the environment and building a harmonious society.
We have established a communication and feedback mechanism with our stakeholders.
At the same time, we aligned our business operations with 17 Goals (SDGs) in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (The 
UN 2030 Agenda), and referred to the Recommendations Report issued by Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) , while tying features of the energy and chemical industry, and then outlined the following thirteen material Issues that we shall report.
Sustainable development management
Risk managementInnovation Anti-corruption
Product quality and service
Shareholder returnsWork safety  P06P21P10-15P22-23P45-46P07
P27-28Addressing climate change
Energy conservation and emission reductionHuman rights protectionOccupational healthBiodiversitySocial contributionP29-3132-34P40-41
P27
P35P42-43
13 Material issues10
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Innovation is the primary driving force for development; it is the strategic 
underpinning for building a modernised economy. The UN 2030 Agenda puts forward the requirement to stimulate innovation and efficient use of natural resources and energy. China advocates to develop a market-oriented system for technological innovation with enterprises as the main players, creating the synergy among enterprises, universities and research institutes and promoting commercialisation of technology achievements. China is also working on cultivating a large number of world-class scientific and technological leading talent and innovation teams.Innovation-Driven
Implementing New Concept 
of Development
Our challenges and opportunities11
Innovation-Driven
12
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
We place innovation at the center of 
development and aim to cultivate a high-qualified and complete-majored research team to lead technological innovation and serve the Company’s strategic development.
In 2017, Mr. Dai Houliang, Vice 
Chairman and President of the Company, was elected member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, while Mr. Xie Zaiku, General Director of the Science and Technology Department, was elected member of Chinese Academy of Sciences. Asteroid No. 210292 has been named after Mr. Ma Yongsheng, Senior Vice President and Board Director. and member of Chinese Academy of Engineering.At present, we have 4 State Key Laboratories, 5 National Engineering Research Centres, 2 National Energy R&D (Experiment) Centres and 2 State-Certified Enterprise Technology Centres. In 2017, the Company won 2 National Technology Invention Awards and 3 National Science and Technology Progress Awards, applied for 5,876 patents and acquired 3,640 granted patents. The fruitful achievements in technological innovation have laid a solid foundation for sustainable development of the Company.
Topic: Scientists and Technologists Steer Innovative 
Development13
Innovation-Driven
Promoting mechanism reform
In 2017, we improved major scientific and technological 
projects and chief leader responsibility pilot programme, strengthened project management, dividend incentives, classified personnel evaluation and talent growth channel building, to promote commercialisation of independent innovations. A mechanism with clear division of rights and responsibilities, and benefit sharing linked by intellectual property rights was formed to promote market-oriented allocation and efficient use of the relevant resources.
Focusing on cutting-edge technologies
In 2017, we conducted the technological innovation centering on the alternatives of upstream resources, restructuring and upgrading of oil refining, and adjustment of raw materials, products and industrial structure in the chemical industry. The Company increased investment in R&D in 10 cutting-edge fields, including oil and gas new pattern E&P, oil refining at molecular level, bio-based materials, new catalytic materials and new materials. Technological Innovation Contributes to Supply-Side Structural Reforms
We take innovation-driven strategy as one of the five major development strategies. Aligning with supply-side structural reforms, we deepen the scientific and technological mechanism reform, strengthen innovation incentives and focus on major science and technology projects, accelerate research on core technologies, strengthen frontier research and research on new field technologies, and promote transformation of technological achievements, further supporting and leading the Company to shift the growth models and to adjust the structure of development, and improve the quality and efficiency of its operations. 
Focusing on green development
In 2017, several state key projects were approved and launched, including key technologies for clean gasoline and clean diesel to meet National VI emission standards, key technology for high-performance plant-based lubricants, high-throughput development and application of new green and efficient chemical catalytic materials, multi-functional coupling technology and demonstration for chemical flue gas treatment.
Promoting innovation incubation
We promoted the construction of Science and Technology Incubator focusing on “Innovation Space”, “Cultivation in New Fields” and “Innovative Business Incubator” to accelerate transformation of technological achievements. The Company held the first “Sinopec Cup” Innovation and Entrepreneurship Competition totally with 561 project applications and established pilot companies focusing on new materials, new technologies and new business models.
Indicators
Number of National Technology Invention Awards
Number of National Science and Technology Progress AwardsNumber of patent applications
Number of granted patents
Total number of domestic and overseas granted patentsInvestment in R&D (RMB billion)2015
22
5,246
3,769
18,349
5.652016
4
0
5,612
3,942
22,291
5.932017
2
3
5,876
3,640
25,931
6.4214
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Boosting Integration of Industrialisation and Informatisation to Upgrade the 
Traditional Manufacturing Industry
In 2017, we actively implemented the national strategy of “Made in China 2025” and “Internet Plus”, deepened the 
integration of industrialisation and informatisation, and vigorously proceeded the innovation and efficiency action plan of technology application through “Smart Manufacturing” and “Internet Plus”.
Based on the national requirements 
for the treatment of oil and gas pipeline hazards and the lessons learned from the 11·22 Oil Pipeline Explosion happened in 2013, we realised the digitalisation and visualisation of long-distance and interplant pipelines covering more than 34,000 kilometers to prevent overstock of underground pipelines and safety risks caused by pipeline crossing. Digital management  Conduct digital processing of documents, design models, operating data and business data of pipeline construction and operation period, which enables to display pipeline information in a multi-dimensional way.
Integrity management  Realise 
traceability of third-party construction, risk management and hazard treatment.
Operation management  Conduct 
tiered management of warnings and transmitted the warnings automatically so that the headquarters, business divisions and subsidiaries /branches can examine the pipeline operating parameters remotely.
Hidden hazards management 
Detect the distribution, location and environmental information of hidden hazards.
Emergency response  Quickly locate 
emergencies, collect the information of surrounding and pipeline data, review surveillance videos on-site, find out nearby emergency resources, and quickly determine emergency solutions.
Intelligent pipeline management15
Innovation-Driven
Intelligent plants construction
After constructing pilot intelligent 
plants in Sinopec Yanshan, Sinopec Zhenhai, Sinopec Maoming and Sinopec Jiujiang, we carried out upgrading programme in Sinopec Zhenhai and Sinopec Maoming and launched planning  for 7 subsidiaries in 2017. The production management command certres (PMCC) in the plants helped realise management flattening, improve the on-site response efficiency, and raise the operation qualification rate from 90.7% to 99%. Intelligent plants establish real-time online monitoring points, quality analysis monitoring points and video surveillance points, integrate real-time data of processes, realise digital management and predictive maintenance of equipment, and improve the management in safety and environmental protection.The pilot intelligent plant in Sinopec Maoming and the pilot intelligent gas field in Sinopec Puguang Oilfield were named as 2017 Intelligent Manufacturing Pilot Demonstration Projects by Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT). 
The Intelligent Plant Solution in 
the Petrochemical Industry and 
EPEC, the e-commerce platform 
of Sinopec, were both listed as 
the pilot demonstration projects of 2017 Manufacturing and Internet Integration Development by MIIT. 
The Large-Scale Localised Intelligent 
Aromatic Plant Construction Project 
was listed as 2017 Intelligent Manufacturing New Mode Application Project by MIIT. Informatisation of the 
logistics system
Centring on crude oil and refined oil 
products, we completed the overall design of integrated modern logistics management system and started the pilot projects. We also finished the development and application of the lubricant logistics management system and enabled product flow being tracked with the QR code.
Case study: Environment Digitalisation Draws Environmental-
protection Map to Realise Pollution Control 
Sinopec Jiujiang is a state-level intelligent manufacturing demonstration 
enterprise. The company's environment digitalisation enables display real-time and historical data of pollutant discharge points, and effectively prevents the disorderly discharge. It also checks environmental risks and management weaknesses through statistical analysis of pollutant process data, and immediately sends abnormal data to the responsible director. The company realises all-weather and whole-process monitoring of VOCs inside and outside the plants, and real-time uploading of data of national monitoring points, like sewage outlets, to online provincial and municipal relevant platforms. The operation rate and the data transmission rate are far superior to the national standards.2017
Honours
16
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
The UN 2030 Agenda calls for ensuring access to affordable and clean 
energy, promoting economic growth, and reducing corruption and bribery. The world economy walked out of recession in 2017. With a 6.9% economic growth rate, China’s economy has been transitioning from a phase of rapid growth to a stage of high-quality development, and the Chinese people have ever-growing needs for a better life. China gives priority to furthering supply-side structural reform, building integrity and enforcing the rule of law system.Deepening Reform
Being an Enterprise with 
Scientific and Normative   Governance in the New Era
Our challenges and opportunities17
Deepening Reform
18
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Topic: Optimising the Articles of Association to Demonstrate 
Modern Enterprise Governance with Chinese Characteristics
The establishment and continuous 
development of Sinopec Corp. can be realised only with the concern and support of the country and the people, investors and other stakeholders both in China and overseas. Sinopec Corp. has been dedicated to ensuring social energy supply, contributing to local economic development where it operates, and meeting people’s basic needs. The Company always attaches great importance to shareholder returns and implements a continuous and stable profit distribution policy. The annual dividend payout ratio in the past five years was above 40%, and the ratio reached 65% and 118% in 2016 and 2017 respectively. 
In June 2017, we revised the Articles 
of Association based on the socialist system with Chinese characteristics and our governance practices, and stated the role of the Party organisations in corporate governance. The proposal was approved by the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders with approval rate of 99.96%.When making decisions on significant matters such as direction of reform and development, key objectives, priority operational arrangements and appointment of the management personnel, the Board of Directors should seek advice from the Party organisation. The Party organisations and the members of the Party positioned in different departments play the leading role in the decision implementation and motivate the employees, which helps the management the enforcement of the Board decisions. Furthermore, the Party organisations strengthen supervision on the integrity and the duty performance of managers who are also the members of the Party. All of the above mentioned helps promote scientific decision-making, efficient enforcement and effective supervision.19
Deepening Reform
Upstream segment
Adhering to the principle of efficient 
exploration and production and supported by technical innovation, we strengthened the fine adjustment of developed oilfields and tapping the potentials to increase the oil recovery ratio. The crude oil reserve replacement ratio reached 116%. We took steps to promote the production of natural gas and non-conventional energy to restructure our overall energy mix and to ease natural gas supply pressure in central and east China.
Refining segment
We promoted the construction of refining and chemical bases. Following the demand trend, we strengthened product structure adjustment from the supply side and developed refined oil products with high added value. We also accelerated the progress of bio-jet fuel, high-end graphite raw materials, and high-grade road asphalt. We took the lead in upgrading the quality of gasoline and diesel for vehicles to meet National VI emission standards in the “2+26” cities in Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region and surrounding regions, and launched “X-power 98” gasoline in Beijing, Jiangsu, Tianjin and Guangxi, providing high quality oil products for customers.Supporting the Real Economy through Supply-side Structural Reforms
In 2017, we focused on improving operation quality and efficiency and promoting supply-side structural reforms, made ef forts 
in optimisation, cost reduction, market expansion, structure adjustment, reform, foundation consolidation and risk control, and achieved satisfactory results in various fields. The Company recorded a revenue of RMB 2,360.2 billion, a 22% YoY increase. The net profit attributable to shareholders was RMB 51.1 billion, a 10% YoY increase. Sinopec Corp. adhered to scientific and 
normative management and improved corporate governance to enhance its vitality , influence and risk resistance capacity.
Chemicals segment
We exploited advantages in Three Synthetic Materials (synthetic resin and plastics, synthetic fiber and synthetic rubber) and R&D to moderately extend the industrial chain and provide tailored solutions for customers. We strengthened product structure adjustment focusing on high-end, green, and eco-friendly materials. In 2017, we launched new series of green propylene and butene copolymer products, promoted the application of new low-odor, small-sized and hollow polyethylene products and new eco-friendly, high-crystallised and high-impact polypropylene products, developed non-dyed fibers to alleviate textile dyeing pollution at the source and reduce wastewater discharge, optimised the performance of non-heavy metal polyester catalysts, increased production and sales of eco-friendly polyester, developed high-performance fiber, and achieved eco-friendly upgrading of all oil-filled SBS products.Marketing segment
We strengthened the overall marketing of gasoline, especially high-grade gasoline, and provided high-quality and clean oil products to meet customer needs. Accurately based on diesel consumption characteristics and research on special needs of heavy truck drivers and long-distance drivers, we expanded the network of diesel special cards national-wide to provide high-quality products and convenient services. We provided solutions that satisfy the oil demand for logistics of major customers. We strengthened the integration of fuel and non-fuel business, and developed comprehensive services such as auto insurance and auto service to satisfy consumers diversified demand. In 2017, the number of fuel card reached 132 million. The total sales of refined oil products reached 199 million tonnes, a 2% YoY increase. We established 550 comprehensive service life posts and the profit of non-fuel business recorded a 48% YoY increase.
Green propylene and butene copolymer products are used in the manufacturing of feeding bottles, drinking cups 
and other household products. Compared to random ethylene and propylene copolymer products, they reduce soluble matter by over 50%, and help the clients reduce processing temperature by 15℃. New low-odor, small-sized and hollow polyethylene products, used for beverage bottles, cosmetics packages and medical package bottles, have lower odor and are more secure and reliable. The eco-friendly, high-crystallised and high-impact polypropylene products help improve vehicle safety and comfort.TIPS20
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Natural gas business 
recorded strong growth
The Energy Production and 
Consumption Revolution Strategy 
(2016-2030) proposes to realise the continuous growth of low-carbon energy such as natural gas in 2021-2030, drastically reduce the use of high-carbon fossil fuels and increase the use of natural gas in key areas with air pollution prevention target. In order to meet the clean energy demand, in 2017, we strengthened rolling exploration and gas reservoir evaluation, increased the production, and improved the efficiency. The natural gas production gained a 19% YoY increase. Fuling shale gas field has built up an annual capacity of 10 billion cubic meters. There was a large-scale commercial discovery in Weiyuan area in southern Sichuan, where a new shale gas production base would be established.Promoting e-commerce 
platform building
We integrated the vertical industrial 
chain and inter-enterprise supply chain, gathered data of material purchase system, chemical sales, lubricant and fuel oil, and established a uniform e-commerce and customer relation management (CRM) platform, realising the connection between product manufacturing and customer needs. In 2017, EPEC was listed as one of the eight key achievements of the BRICS. The trading volume on chememall.com increased by 470,000 tonnes, the refining sales business realised online operation and the CRM of oil products marketing was promoted.Transformation Created New Momentum for Development
Developing new energy 
markets
We promoted the new energy 
business to foster development momentum of the Company. In 2017 we exploited the CNG vehicle market, and explored gas supply business. Sinopec Yangzi achieved the pilot industrial production of dedicated resin for lithium-ion battery separator. Sinopec Marketing Company conducted research on construction of the battery charging and swapping network and built the first batch of stations in Beijing to meet needs of swapping-mode taxi drivers. We also promoted the development and application of hydrogen energy and formulated standards and plans for the construction of hydrogenation networks. Sinopec Guangdong Oil Products Co. started joint venture cooperation in Guangdong Yunfu to build hydrogen stations.
21
Deepening Reform
The Audit Committee under the 
Board of Directors inspects the effectiveness of internal control and risk management, and gives advice to the Board. We have established a comprehensive risk management working group and relevant departments are established to control and mitigate risks, including safety, environmental protection, climate change, finance, legal affairs, anti-corruption and overseas public safety. The management convenes the meeting annually to organise 
We strengthen construction of the 
legal risk management system and process and enhance the legal risk prevention. In 2017, the subsidiaries conducted legal risk identification and control of 1,105 business Risk Management
Advancing the Law-based Operationidentification, assessment and 
treatment of major and significant risks, compiles quarterly risk management reports, and formulates risk forestall measures.
The headquarters and the subsidiaries 
assess the risks and the final “risk list” is included in the internal control manual. We have established “Three Lines of Defence”, namely regular test of internal control responding units, daily supervision by risk/internal control departments and comprehensive auditing and inspection. Each year, the headquarters organises subsidiaries to carry out risk management training, and subsidiaries conduct special training.
We realised effective risk management 
in 2017. The main risks and measures are presented in the relevant section of the Report.
processes and embedded with legal risk warnings and control focuses. We improved the legal risk warning system, compiled legal risk lists, and completed legal work guidance on environmental protection, labour and employment, patents, technical secrets protection and overseas enterprises anti-corruption. 
22
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Continuously improving the anti-corruption system
Integrity is the ethics that the employees must follow. The Company formulates 
the Code of Conduct, Implementation Rules of Gift Registration and other 
regulations. Meanwhile, the management and employees who are the Party members must strictly abide by the regulations of the Communist Party of China, including Several Clean Governance Guidelines for Leading Cadres, Code of 
Integrity and Self-Discipline, and Accountability Regulations, etc. Each year, employees at key positions sign the Business Ethics Agreement, promising to abide by business ethics and adhere to integrity initiatives. The Company strengthens anti-corruption management of value chain with contractors, suppliers, etc. (For detailed information, please refer to P47 of the Report.)
Building an open and transparent corporate environment
In 2017, we linked the Business Information Disclosure System with systems covering ERP, contract management, expense reimbursement, e-commerce platform, e-tendering platform, EPEC and engineering management system, realised automatic extraction of most to-be-disclosed information, and inspected ten external operation businesses. In 2017, the Company disclosed about 4.18 million pieces of information, and contracts involved amounted to US 75.56 billion dollars and RMB 1.3 trillion.
The integrity and risk control module was developed for the Business 
Information Disclosure System to display risky positions, risk levels and risk control measures. Online management was realised for information collection, evaluation, disposal, rectification and feedback.
Setting up the hotline and inspection mechanism
We set up hotlines for employees to report corruption. The reported incidents will be registered and tackled, and the whistleblower’s information is strictly confidential during the whole process. Independent departments are set up in headquarters and subsidiaries respectively to take charge of the supervision and inspection of corruption incidents.
Enhancing the anti-corruption awareness of all employees
We organise training on anti-corruption for senior managers, and online training on laws and regulations on integrity for employees every year, and compile corruption cases and hold seminars to strengthen anti-corruption awareness.We comply with all national laws and anti-corruption regulations, and all 
laws and regulations in countries where we operate. We keep promoting the enforcement of anti-corruption measures and carry out punishment and prevention mechanism in order to ensure a clean Sinopec.Strengthening Anti-Corruption23
Deepening Reform
million person-time
thousand person-time%1.121
579100Anti-corruption training
Training on the Party’s disciplines and 
regulationsCoverage of anti-corruption training24
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
The UN 2030 Agenda calls for building sustainable cities and 
communities, addressing climate change, improving energy efficiency and protecting eco-environment. China promotes a revolution in energy production and consumption, and builds an energy sector that is clean, low-carbon, safe, and efficient to spur the development of energy-saving and environmental protection industries as well as clean production and clean energy industries. China encourages conservation and recycling of the resources, takes action on conserving water, cutting consumption of energy and materials, and proposes to promote a sound economic structure that facilitates green, low-carbon, and circular development.Promoting Green 
Development
Progressing in Safety, Ecological and Environmental Protection
Our challenges and opportunities25
Promoting Green Development
26
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Topic: Upgrading the Quality of Refined Oil and Providing Clean 
Oil Products for the Society
China takes the quality upgrading 
of refined oil products as one of the measures to reduce pollutant emission and build a beautiful China. At the beginning of 2017, China demanded that gasoline and diesel for vehicles supplied in “2+26” cities  (“2+26” cities refer to 28 cities which located in the air pollution transmission channels of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region, including Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, Shanxi, Shandong and Henan, etc.) must keep accordance with National VI emission standards before September 2017. Sinopec Corp. has comprehensively upgraded the quality of gasoline and diesel for vehicles with National V emission standards, completed the oil products qualified with National VI emission standards upgrade work in advance, and supplied to “2+26” cities in China. The content of aromatics, olefine, sulphur and benzene are reduced in oil products, not only contributing to pollutant emission reduction, but also improving the engine's efficiency and vehicle operation performance.The quality upgrade of refined oil is attributed to the continuous technological innovation and equipment upgrade of the company. During the period of upgrading oil quality with National V and National VI emission standards, Sinopec Corp. established, improved, revamped and expanded facilities to ensure the accomplishment of oil quality upgrade. In the meantime, Sinopec Corp. was committed to two key national R&D projects. 
•  The project of “Key technology 
for clean gasoline qualifying the National VI emission standards” started with the research in the impact of gasoline composition on engine power performance and emission behaviour, to upgrade the quality of gasoline in an environment-friendly way with lower cost. 
•   The project of “Key technology for 
clean diesel qualifying the National VI emission standards” aims to solve problems such as facility energy consumption and build the technical platform for upgrading the quality of diesel.
27
Promoting Green Development
We strictly comply with laws 
and regulations including Safety Production Law, adhere to the idea that "development must not come at the expense of safety", and strictly implement the HSSE management system. Adhering to the safety concepts of “life upmost, safe development” and “prevention first, comprehensive management”, we have established safety management systems in all 
The petrochemical industry has 
high inherent risks. Any potential equipment hazard, system deficiency or negligence will probably cause safety accidents. We pay high attention to production safety risk management, release and implement 
Production safety risk management and responds
Safety hazards detection and 
emergency management
In 2017, we conducted safety 
management focusing on hidden hazards detection and hazardous chemicals management, and compiled scene building plans for 17 enterprises in upstream, middle stream and downstream, covering responses or solutions to 21 major safety risks. These enterprises did cross-evaluation for over 1,500 plans, compiled the on-site emergency plan template, and enhanced the pertinence and effectiveness of emergency plans. We cooperated with local governments and companies in the industry to conduct emergency drills of different kinds and levels. Three accidents were reported in this year, and production and operation maintained stable.Production safety managementAdvancing Work Safety and Public Security steadily
Guaranteeing employees’ 
occupational health
We pay high attention to occupational 
health. We have established Regulations on Sinopec Occupational Health Management and over ten specific occupational health institutional systems.  40 subsidiaries have established the QHSE system and/or the OHSAS 18001 system. In 2017, we invested about RMB 100 million to inspect, monitor and treat occupational hazards, including toxicants at 90,000 operation spots and dust at 4,000 operation spots. We continued to implement policies of employee health examination and rehabilitation with the examination rate reached 99%. For employees who were in an abnormal physical dimensions, which covering safety 
responsibility, safety behavior, safety training, risk management as well as management of hidden hazards, operations and occupational health. Following the principles of “ensuring the participation of all staff, using comprehensive process controls, conducting a full range of management, and performing all-day supervision”, we build an emergency management and command system 
Guidelines on Sinopec Safety Risk 
Assessment. Our subsidiaries annually evaluate safety risks, implement the risk governance of relevant positions and organise training of risk management to enhance management of major safety and design a safety index appraisal system. We also enhance our identification, prevention and control of risks, and have taken steps to assess and manage potential safety hazards. We regularly introduce initiatives to increase employees' awareness on safety and to prevent accidents and protect our employees and local residents. 
risks and safety risk identification, 
improve supporting measures, optimise process safety management regulations, and strive to realise a safety supervision system with synergic governance.
state, we arranged health re-
examination, position adjustment, occupational disease application and medical treatment, etc. We held two sessions of EAP training courses and conduct training for 100 professionals in 2017. 28
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
In 2017, we amended Contractor 
Safety Management Regulations  and 
set the linkage between business 
volume and safety performance of contractors.  The percentage of safety performance reached over 25% in tendering and bidding. We took special actions to improve contractors’ performance on site to specify the duty division of engineering, equipment and safety departments, 
In 2017, we enhanced network security management, improved the network safety accident reporting mechanism, 
Case Study: Enhancing Network Security to Guaranteeing Stable 
Operation
In May 2017, the blackmail virus broke out across the world. we instantly 
launched the emergency programme. Both the headquarters and subsidiaries drew on the information safety reporting and liaison mechanism to take joint actions, effectively prohibiting the outbreak in the Company. All production systems remained intact, which guaranteed the stable operation and management of businesses. strengthen the safety responsibility of supervisory organisations, and continued to implement the “dual supervisory” management of major and high-risk operations, and specified safety supervisory responsibility of construction contractors, supervisory organisations and the construction side. 
and increased efforts to conduct 
network safety drill to guarantee the E-operation. We build and improve the public safety management system, which covers risk evaluation, training, security staff, traffic security, employee health, emergency disposal, rescue insurance, supervision and evaluation, etc. We annually evaluate public safety risks and release risk warning information. In 2017, the five overseas subsidiaries/projects conducted political risk identification and sensitivity analyses of local operation countries or regions, formulated security measures, and increased training to improve employees’ risk awareness and prevention capability. A third-party organisation was hired to provide overseas employees with services such as health risk evaluation, screening and treatment.
Contractor safety management
Public safety management
Network security management
29
Promoting Green Development
Sinopec Corp. implements the green and low-carbon development strategy, 
proactively tackles climate change issues, and persists in integrated management in energy conservation, emission reduction and carbon reduction. With these efforts, we strive to promote clean production, protect the environment, and build an environment-friendly enterprise. 
Risk management of climate change
A global consensus has been reached on addressing climate change. The international, national and regional laws and regulations that stipulate greenhouse gas emission limits and the possibility of more strict rules in future will probably affect the global needs for fossil fuels, increase capital expenditure and affect profitability and strategic growth in the future. Meanwhile, extreme weather caused by climate change such as typhoon, hurricane or flood as well as sea level rise or drought may cause direct assets loss to corporate production and operation; supply chain disruptions triggered by climate change may exert indirect impacts. 
The development of human society is closely related to energy supply. Without 
technological breakthrough, renewable energy cannot become the dominant and affordable energy; so fossil fuels will remain dominate in energy supply. As an energy and materials supplier, on one hand, Sinopec Corp. is dedicated to the development of main businesses, providing clean, high quality and affordable energy and petrochemical products. On the other hand, the Company pays high attention to climate change risks. Every year, the environmental management and protection department evaluates climate change risks, includes the risk list into the internal control manual (Please refer to the Page 21), conducts the research on greenhouse gas emission reduction, and proposes specific solutions. Proactively Addressing Climate Change
Greenhouse gas emission management
We optimise energy structure, improve energy efficiency utilisation, and formulate target to control GHG emission. We have included both energy efficiency assessment and GHG assessment into the feasibility study of fix assets investment. Based on the characteristics of our current businesses, we have identified that energy conservation and efficiency improvement are the most important carbon reduction measures and advance the Energy Conservation Plan actively, with the result that the consumption of comprehensive energy per RMB 10,000 of production value is continuously reduced. We conduct GHG emission reduction by carbon dioxide capture and methane recovery in our oilfield and refining & chemical subsidiaries, and by reducing flaring emissions. 
30
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Carbon capture and utilisation
We continue to conduct carbon dioxide capture and recovering among our 
oilfield and refining & chemical subsidiaries. In 2017, the refining & chemical subsidiaries captured 270,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide, of which, 190,000 tonnes were used by the oilfield subsidiaries for flooding.
Methane recovery and emission reduction
We increase efforts in methane recovering from associated gas, test oil and gas, oil gathering and transportation systems. We strengthen daily routine management of pipeline storage and transportation facilities, optimise pipeline operation and assign rational operation period to reduce methane release during construction. In 2017, 4.26 million cubic metres of methane emission was reduced in pipeline storage and transportation. The oilfield subsidiaries implemented recovery measures for natural gas during production and testing processes, casing gas and oil tank gas when necessary and possible. A total of 220 million cubic metres of methane was recovered, which equals to reduction of 3.3 million of carbon dioxide emission. 
• For oil wells/stations far away from the oil gathering and transportation network, 
vehicle-mounted CNG or LNG facilities are used for recovery.• A part of oil wells/stations adopt connecting pipes (or makeshift pipes) to enter 
the oil gathering and transportation network for recovery. • Adopting production technologies such as “testing during entrance” and “earlier 
entrance” to recover natural gas during the testing process.• Adopting oil and gas multiphase flow, oil jacket connecting unit or casing gas 
recovery unit, low-power gas generator and supercharger to recover casing gas. • Adopting oil airtight gathering and transporting process and large tank pumping 
unit to recover oil tank gas. 270
2205.42
Carbon capture 
Methane recovery Greenhouse gas emission (carbon 
dioxide equivalent) 
million tonnes
thousand tonnes
million cubic metresEnergy efficiency management
We continue to implement the Energy Conservation Plan. In 2017, a total of 452 
programmes were conducted, with the annual energy conservation expected to equal to 949,000 tonnes of standard coal. The Company added energy efficiency assessment during the construction projects assessment, proposed reasonable energy advises, and implemented the full-process energy conservation management. We completed the energy conservation testing work of large units and main power utility equipment/systems, and tapped energy saving potentials of 315,000 tonnes of standard coal. Sinopec Qingdao, Sinopec Guangzhou, Sinopec Zhenhai and Sinopec Maoming were awarded Leading Enterprise Models for National Energy Efficiency. 31
Promoting Green Development
We explore and experiment 
industrial application of solar power. In 2017, the Company conducted three distributional photovoltaic power generation projects. We made new progress of Sinopec Bio-jet Fuel No.1 with Boeing 787 Passenger Plane of HU497 Flight of Hainan Airlines accomplishing transoceanic fly. Sinopec Zhenhai has initiated the 100,000 tonnes/year bio-jet fuel hydrogenation facility construction project and plans to complete intermediate handover by the end of 2018. In future, we will coordinate domestic and international bio-materials and market network, and enhance cooperation with airliners and leading enterprises domestic and overseas to actively develop non-grain bio-fuels, striving to become a leader in bio-fuel industry in China.
Flaring reduction
We pursue zero flaring when ensuring safety operation and strictly prohibit indiscriminate emission and flaring. On the premise of safety operation, upstream enterprises optimise discharge programme in new projects. Refining enterprises formulate specific regulations on emission and recovery management; they integrate flaring management  system into technique and equipment management systems of every unit, and establish the supervision and assessment mechanism. Chemical enterprises work on flaring elimination and take measures such as stable unit operation, operation optimisation, leak source elimination and increasing recovery facilities to reduce emissions and improve flaring recovery. In 2017, we realised 430,000 tonnes of flaring recovery through ethylene and aromatics units etc. Sinopec Yanshan takes the lead to realise routine flaring elimination.
On December 19, 2017, China announced to launch the national carbon market and first initiate the trading system in power generation industry. Accordingly, all of our captive power plants will be included in the market. It is expected that the trading system will be expanded to the refining and chemical industries in future which will involve all the refining and petrochemical subsidiaries of the Company. 
We have established the carbon assets 
information system and completed carbon accounting and verification for equipment in our subsidiaries. To prepare for the national carbon market trading system, we sorted out all of our captive power plants, measured carbon emission data, and determined the list of enterprises to be included in the market. We conducted CCER projects development aiming to reduce the carbon quotas cost. In 2017, all the subsidiaries participating in the pilot carbon trading programme completed the carbon quota in time. The carbon trading volume reached 1.35 million tonnes, with carbon trading turnover of about RMB 19 million. TIPS
Engagement in Chinese 
carbon marketDeveloping renewable energy32
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Environmental risks and countermeasures
Actively reducing flue gas 
emission
Sinopec Corp. constantly works on 
emission reduction of main pollutants and upgrades catalytic cracking, sulphur recovery units, the heating furnaces and coal-fired boilers in refining and chemical subsidiaries to meet ultra-low gas emission requirements. We also carry out the prevention and control of air pollution in Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and their surrounding regions and revamp the coal-fired boilers in eastern China to reach ultra-low gas emission level. 
Responses:
On April 6, 2017, a meeting was held specifically for the incident at Sinopec headquarters. Causes were investigated and rectification measures were implemented. The persons in charge were dismissed from their positions. The management decided to assign six teams to supervise subsidiaries within the area of “2+26” cities since April 10. 
Yanshan sorted out the environmental protection work of all units focusing 
on “Three Wastes” emissions. Approximately RMB 800 million had been invested, VOCs treatment projects covering tank field gas and boiler revamp had been completed and 46 automatic VOCs monitoring sites were built. After this, Yanshan built wetland park in Niukouyu Ecological Center where the operation site was located, covering 80,000 square meters of area. In November 2017, the park was opened to the public for free.Case Study: Addressing the Problems and Enhancing Environment 
Management Measures
On April 5, 2017, Sinopec Yanshan was detected to have problems in 
exhaust emission treatment and electronic data accounting when the Ministry of Environmental Protection conducted inspection.Enhancing Environmental Protection
The construction of ecological civilisation is highlighted to a new strategic level in China. The Chinese government proposes that “stringent laws and regulations ought to be observed to protect the ecological environment”, successively issues laws and regulations on air, water and soil, etc. and enhances supervision. Correspondingly, environmental protection standards and pollutant discharge volume have become increasingly strict, thus proposing higher requirements for environment management of Sinopec Corp. 
We have always paid high attention 
to environmental protection. We strictly obey Environmental Protection Law and other related laws and regulations on air, water and soil pollution prevention. We have built relevant management system, enhancing the headquarters’ role in guiding and supervising as well as the subsidiaries' role in enforcement. 
In 2017, we implemented the 
new standards in refining and petrochemical industry, completed the treatment of sewage and flue gas, and actively conducted the comprehensive treatment of VOCs. We finished the compilation and amendment of emergency plans for environmental emergencies and heavy pollution weather, complying with the relevant national requirements. According to the national pollution permit and self-monitoring technology guidelines in relevant industries, we modified the self-monitoring plan, and implemented new requirements of sewage, flue gas and noise, and disclosed the results. We further regulated environmental management of construction projects, enhanced assessment, and implemented “three-simultaneity” management (environmental facilities shall be designed, constructed and put into operation simultaneously with the main construction). All of the newly-built projects have obtained approval from the authorities. Meanwhile, some subsidiaries which are listed as key pollutant discharge unit have disclosed environmental information as required. Details may be referred to the websites of local governments. In 2017, the expenditure of environmental protection of Sinopec Corp. was about RMB 7.85 billion.33
Promoting Green Development
We strictly implement solid waste 
pollution prevention and treatment measures. The Company classifies, treats and disposes solid waste according to principles of “reduce the quantity, turn into resources and dispose harmlessly”. Our oilfield subsidiaries take measures to prevent slurry falling onto the ground in the process of well drilling, and recycle waste slurry from drilled wells in ecologically vulnerable areas. The detritus is utilised for general hardening, Case study: Enhancing Oil & Gas Recovery
Sinopec Jiangsu Oil Products Co. itemises recovery inspection on oil and gas depots and stations. Apart from entrusting a third party to do relevant tests, Jiangsu increases efforts in daily self-examination, strengthens the daily maintenance of recovery units, tracks recovery progress monthly, reports the results quarterly. In 2017, 7,796 tonnes of oil and gas was recovered through recovery units, achieving ecological and economical results.
brickmaking and hardening roads, realising harmless treatment and resource reuse. The refinery and petrochemical subsidiaries implement sludge drying projects and demonstration projects of utilisation of refinery waste catalyst, oil sludge and excess activated sludge. We strictly observe rules on hazardous waste transfer and strengthen protection measures during transportation.
Actively reducing solid waste discharge34
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Sinopec Southwest Oil & Gas Company adopted self-developed 
technology to treat high chlorine ion formation water during gas production and turn chlorine ion into salt. After treatment, the contents of chlorine ion, COD and suspended substance in external discharge all reach standards. By the end of 2017, the high chlorine ion formation water treatment capacity of West Sichuan Gas Field reaches 1,060 cubic metres per day and over 65,000 tonnes of industrial salt has been produced. The condensate water index reaches the first class emission standards and can be reused for farm irrigation.We strengthen water utilisation management by taking diverse measures to reduce water consumption, including controlling industrial intake, improving utilisation efficiency and recycling ratio, and increasing utilisation of unconventional water resources.
We implement water utilisation plans 
and release the annual industrial water intake index to subsidiaries and organise them to conduct water efficiency benchmarking activities. For enterprises, segments, regions and businesses with too fast growth in water intake, we timely issue early-warnings and circulate the notice of assessment.
Case Study: Technological Innovation in Pollution Treatment and 
Water Conservation
Sinopec Corp. values innovation in water conservation technology. 
As one of the earliest enterprises to recycle industrial sewage in petrochemical industry in China, Sinopec Zhenhai has been granted eight national invention patents. Four other technologies fill the blank in water conservation technology and equipment in domestic oil refining industry. Sinopec Zhenhai has built three sewage recycling units, with the total capacity of 31,200 cubic metres per day. By the end of 2017, over 76 million cubic metres of discharged sewage has been recycled, the amount of water conserved equaling to seven West Lakes, a famous lake in Hangzhou city.Case Study: High Chlorine Ion Formation Water Reused for 
Farm IrrigationWe reduce comprehensive loss 
rate of water utilisation and the subsidiaries adopt measures to improve water recycling rate considering own features.  They actively carry out utilisation of reclaimed water from sewage treatment plants, sea water and brackish water.
In 2017, the industrial water intake 
declined by 1.27 % YoY and save 12 million cubic metres of water. Sinopec Zhenhai, awarded the leading enterprise in water efficiency performance by four ministries such as NDRC and MIIT, etc.; is the only pioneer in ethylene industry in China; Sinopec Yizheng was awarded the leading enterprise in water efficiency performance in Jiangsu Province.%
million cubic metres1.27
12Industrial water intake declined  (YoY)
Water conservationStrengthening water resource management35
Promoting Green Development
Case Study: YASREF Protects Local Mangroves
Joint venture project Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company Ltd. 
(YASREF) actively protects mangroves along the Red Sea near the production area. In pipeline direction and construction, specific design and construction plans were formulated to avoid the pipeline construction project affecting or damaging local mangroves in natural reserves.
Case Study: Sinopec Fuling Shale Gas Company Conducts Land 
Restoration 
Sinopec Fuling Shale Gas Company takes land conservation measures 
such as pad drilling design, with the result that single well land occupation is 30% less than the normal. After completing platform construction, the company works on plantation restoration, water and soil maintenance and soil restoration, with the land conservation rate of about 57 %. Newly reclaimed land, ranging large areas and with low content rate of rock, are regarded as prime land. The Bureau of Land and Resources of Fuling District, Chongqing examined the newly reclaimed land, identifying that the land met Completion Standards on Land Reclamation Quality, engineering construction complied with relevant rules and achieved good land utilisation.We comply with all laws and regulations such as the Environmental Protection Law and Convention on Biological Diversity and integrate biological diversity protection in assessment, decision making, production and operation of project construction. For the projects that may affect the environment, we evaluate the impact by assessing ecological reserves, forests and wetlands as well as fauna and flora, and formulate measures to mitigate or eliminate the impact during the preliminary project appraisal process, construction and operation. In 2017 our subsidiaries assessed biological diversity in major projects, analysed the impact on the fauna and flora in Ecological Red Line Areas, forests and wetlands, and then implemented the environmental friendly project plan.
The E&P subsidiaries analyse impacts on the environment in whole lifecycle covering construction, operation and discarding period of exploration and production, and formulate ecological impact prevention and treatment plans. They build the long-term mechanism for discarded well blocking treatment and soil remediation, including conducting technological verification and risk evaluation of discarded wells, formulating blocking treatment measures and realising treatment timely to ensure environmental protection.At the beginning of gas field construction, many villagers worried that too much of their land would be occupied. Now they don’t worry anymore. The reclaimed land by Fuling Shale Gas Company has been leveled, ranges large areas, and is covered with thick mud layer with good soil quality, which can achieve harvest to increase the income of villagers. So the land is welcomed by villagers.
—Yuan Daiyu, Vice Director of 
Shale Gas Construction Office in Jiaoshi TownProtecting Biological Diversity
Soil Remediation
Statements from stakeholders36
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
The UN 2030 Agenda proposes to eradicate poverty in all forms, eradicate 
hunger, ensure inclusive and quality education for all, and create opportunities of decent life and equality for all human beings. China has been launching the unprecedented fight against poverty and intended to eliminate absolute poverty in the next three years. The practices to guarantee and improve living standards through development, prioritise education development, improve the quality of employment and raise income, as well as strengthen the social security system.Shared Development
Serving the People for 
a Better Life
Our challenges and opportunities37
Shared Development
38
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Topic: Conducting Targeted Poverty Alleviation to Benefit the 
People
Advocating “Big enterprise undertakes 
greater responsibility”, Sinopec Corp. adheres to the concept of benefiting the people with corporate development, and conducts targeted poverty alleviation to eradicate poverty. Centering on infrastructure construction, industrial development, education support, Labour training and medical healthcare, we help impoverished areas and local people to improve their capability of sustainable development and aim to realise a picture of poverty alleviation with targeted objects, targeted programme planning, targeted utilisation of funds, targeted measures based on households, targeted personnel based on village and targeted poverty elimination effect.
•  Zhongke Refining & Chemical Co. and Sinopec 
Zhanjiang Dongxing were awarded Outstanding Units in Guangdong Province. 
•  Sinopec Yangzi was awarded Outstanding Unit in 
Jiangsu Province. 
•  Sinopec Liaoning Oil Products Co. was awarded 
Outstanding Unit in Liaoning Province. 
•  Sinopec Xinjiang Oil Products Co. was awarded 
Outstanding Work Team in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. 
•  Sinopec Northwest Oil Field Co. was awarded 
Outstanding Group in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.
•  Sinopec Hainan was awarded Outstanding Unit for 
Publicity in Hainan Province.
•  Sinopec Hainan Oil Products Co. was awarded 
Outstanding Unit and the employee was awarded Outstanding Person in Hainan Province. •  Sinopec Baling and Sinopec Changling were 
awarded Outstanding Unit and Grade I Unit respectively in Yueyang City.
•  Sinopec Shanxi Oil Products Co. was awarded 
Outstanding Unit in Xinzhou City. 
•  Sinopec Northwest Oil Field Co. was awarded 
Outstanding Primary-level Organisation in Aksu District.
•  Sinopec Jiujiang was awarded Outstanding 
Primary-level Organisation in Xiushui County.
•  Sinopec Tibet Oil Products Co. was awarded 
Outstanding Organisation in Luolong County, Changdu City.  
•  Ningyuan Company of Sinopec Hunan Oil 
Products Co. was awarded Outstanding Work Team in Ningyuan County. In 2017, we increased efforts to implement the "Five Batches of People" project to eradicate poverty by developing production, relocation, ecological compensation, education, as well as by guaranteeing basic living standards. RMB 128 million was allocated for targeted poverty alleviation, helping 27,759 registered people out of poverty and aiding 3,146 students. Meanwhile, the headquarters continued to conduct Tibet and Qinghai aid programmes investing RMB 26 million and carrying out 9 programmes.
2017 Honours for Poverty Alleviation39
Shared Development
27,759 12,453
Number of  registered poor people lifted 
out of povertyUnit: RMB 10,000
Funds
Input Breakdowns
Poverty elimination through industrial 
developmentPoverty elimination through labour transfer
Poverty elimination through relocationPoverty alleviation through ecological protection
Guarantee basic living standardsPoverty elimination through education
Poverty alleviation through social programmes
Other programmesPoverty alleviation through healthcare369
Goods and materials converted
1,669
13,907 275 
3,20262
4,316 
4,275 
305 3,146 596
27
386
48
513865 Categories of poverty alleviation programmes 
through industrial development
105
158 1 4,926 
13,852 261 2,157√√
√√
√
√
√√
√
√Targeted Poverty Alleviation Work Statistics 2017
Poverty alleviation 
through agriculture 
and forestry 
developmentPoverty alleviation 
through assets 
income
Poverty alleviation 
through science and 
technology development
OthersPoverty alleviation 
through tourism 
development
Poverty alleviation 
through e-commerce
Number of relocated people 
helped with finding jobs 
Investment in education resources 
in poverty-stricken areas
Investment in targetedpoverty alleviation programmesInvestment in coordinated poverty alleviation in East and West China
The number of registered poor people lifted out of poverty Charity funds for poverty alleviationInvestment in left-behind children, women and senior people
Number of left-behind children, 
women and senior people assisted 
Investment in assisting poor people 
with physical disabilities
Number of people with disabilities 
assistedNumber of poverty alleviation programmes through industrial development
Investment in poverty alleviation 
programmes through industrial development
Number of registered poor people lifted out 
of povertyInvestment in professional skill training 
Programme name
Conduct ecological protection and construction
OthersSet up ecological charity postsDevelop ways for ecological protection 
and compensation
InvestmentNumber of participants of professional skill training (person-time)
Number of registered poor people helped with finding jobs
Investment in aiding  students
Number of programmes InvestmentNumber of students who received aid
Investment in medical and healthcare resources in poor areas40
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
We comply with all related laws and regulations on human 
rights and Chinese Human Rights Action Plan . We strictly 
obey related legal requirements of prohibition of child labour in countries and regions where we operate. We respect employees’ right of personal freedom and right to leave, respect rights and interests of female employees 
Employees are valuable assets of Sinopec Corp. We 
value common development with employees and provide necessary resources and favorable working environment for our employees to realise their career development according to related laws and regulations such as Labour Law and 
The Sinopec assistance and relief mechanism has helped me get through hard times. I truly feel the caring and 
warmness from the Company. In coming years, I will work harder to contribute to my company.
                                  — Employee Wang XiEmployee guarantee system
We establish the system of the workers’ congress to 
guarantee employees’ right, through which, the employees provide suggestions, review and supervise the management, and vote for the issues that related to them. We follow the principle of "equality, voluntariness and consensus”, sign labour contracts with employees, and ensure compliance fulfillment of such contracts. We also build the salary system based on performance and the enterprise annuity system for employees. According to national and local regulations, we provide basic social insurance for employees, covering local elderly care insurance, medical insurance, employment injury insurance, maternity insurance and unemployment insurance. We strictly comply with laws and regulations in countries and regions where we operate, guarantee employees’ rights to work, rest and take leave, and formulate the annual leave rewarding system to encourage employees to enjoy their right to take leave.Caring for employees
We start from cultural construction to enhance employee team building. Based on employees’ needs, the Labour Unions of all level establish clubs such as calligraphy, drawing, shooting, Ping-Pong ball and basketball, etc. At the same time, we set up and improve the assistance and relief work system, and optimise measures for helping employees in need.  In 2017, for employees from our subsidiaries that have been shut down due to operating difficulties, we arrange for employment in other subsidiaries or external companies, with a total of 5,931 employees were helped to find new job opportunities.Our Principles for Human Rights
Sharing Development with Employeesand minor nationalities, oppose forced labour and forbid 
discrimination in all forms. We protect employees’ rights and interests by enhancing social security and negotiation, and providing decent work. Moreover, we attach importance to communication with local people, and actively participate in local public welfare to serve local people.
local rules. We enhance employee culture construction and 
help employees solve problems. Moreover, we provide talent development channels and cultivate talents for all posts covering operation management, professional skills and technical operation.
Statement of Stakeholders41
Shared Development
Valuing employees’ career development
We adhere to the concept of talent development and promote talent training of all kinds to boost employees’ career 
development.
Protecting rights and interests of female employees 
We value employee diversity and gender equality. In 2017, the percentage of female employees reached 35.9 % and the percentage of female employees in operation management positions reached 12.76 %. We establish the Female Employee Commission of the Labour Union to strengthen protection during production, and constantly improve labour environment and working conditions for them. We also implement regulations on female employees’ leave during maternity and lactation periods as well as the regular examination system, and care for their physical and mental health.In 2017, we expanded development channels for 
professional and technical talents, improved the talent selection and appraisal mechanism, and expanded the talent appraisal information platform, providing support for talent development. We initiated expert engagement work 
In 2017, the headquarters trained 4,292 person-time in 
high-level personnel training focusing on strategy and key objectives. We carried out series of programmes, including training for managers and seminar on innovation to enhance the new managers' capacity. The total training for senior management personnel reached 1,822 person-time. We organised training programme for the reserve young and middle aged managers with 100 person-time participation. We held experts training projects in upstream fields and refining and chemical fields with 1,205 person-time participation. We also carried out chief technician training and skilled talents training in 10 types, including 
Expanding talent development channels
Enhancing career development and trainingin all business sectors to propel pioneering expert and 
youth talent team building. In 2017, 159 employees were awarded the title of professorate and 640 employees were awarded the title of senior technician.
oil-gas gathering and transporting, catalytic cracking, etc. 
with 245 people participating. We conducted training on transnational operation and risk prevention for overseas project managers, with 920 person-time participation. All subsidiaries carried out diverse training in different levels and fields, with off-job training 328,000 person-time and various basic skill training 386,000 person-time. The online training practice of the Company was awarded Best Recommendation and Best Courseware at China E-Learning Forum & Exhibition (CEFE) 2017. 42
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
We insist that corporate development should benefit the people. Following the principle of achieving shared growth through 
discussion and collaboration, we actively participate in local public welfare and community building. In 2017, the Company invested RMB 6.65 billion to facilitate local community, culture and education, and medical and hygiene development.Serving Society
We combine youth voluntary services with main businesses, draw on coordination between provinces and enterprises instead of single enterprise’s effort, and promote voluntary service through new media such as blog and WeChat as well as traditional media. The volunteering spirit has become a new fashion of Sinopec youth. Since 2013, Sinopec gas stations themed “Ten Thousand Gas Stations in One Hundred Cities” have conducted voluntary services such as caring for left-behind children and lonely elderly, community service and bookhouse. The subsidiaries 
Promoting volunteer service
Every year, we implement “Warm Station” public welfare activity to assist those heading home in winter. Before 
In 2017, Sinopec “Brightness” Lifeline 
Express entered Kashgar in Xinjiang, Baishan in Jilin, and Guilin in Guangxi. We also donated two cataract treatment centres respectively in Guilin and Yulin in Guangxi province, providing surgery service for 3,126 cataract patients.Implementing “Warm Station” public welfare activity
Lifeline Express lightening 
patients’ lifehave been successively awarded 
honours of excellent voluntary service programmes among central SOEs, excellent volunteers of SOEs and provincial excellent volunteers.
the Spring Festival in 2017, we had served over 400,000 people heading home providing over 900 tents, 512 break rooms, 812 lounges, hot water, hot porridge, medicine and medical service for free.
Since 2004, Sinopec Corp. has provided free surgery service for cataract patients in poverty. Up to now, the Company has 
been awarded Special Contribution Award from China Lifeline Express Foundation for 13 consecutive years for its contribution to helping cataract patients. By the end of 2017, the Company has accumulatively donated over RMB140 million, cured over 40,000 cataract patients free of charge, and donated one Sinopec Brightness Life Express, one Ophthalmic Microsurgery Training Centre in Xinjiang and 18 Sinopec Cataract Treatment Centres, successively providing treatment service for poor patients in 33 regions of 18 provinces.TIPS43
Shared Development
Based on our businesses and 
professional teams, we have made active contributions to  development of local communities.
Every summer, Sinopec Marketing 
Company conducts oil supply station activities for farmers along villages. Green channels are developed to Utilising the advantages to assist people in need
provide 24-hour oil supply service; oil stations are set up to deliver oil with small vehicles to farmers, and volunteers are also organised to deliver oil to villages. All these efforts facilitate fueling for farmers and help farmers with big harvest. Other subsidiaries provide contingency assistance service for society. Sinopec Shengli establishes the emergency commanding centre for oil spilling incidents with marine authorities and industrial organisations and allocates marine full-time guardian team ready to response to ensure social rescue and contingency assistance work.
Case Study: Help local company clean oil leakage
In January 2017, Sinopec Shengli received a rescue request from local authority as an oil ship from one company was leaking at Dongying Port. The company instantly made response according to emergency rescue procedures of Sinopec Corp, established the on-site commanding group and deployed the emergency plan with the local company involved and local authority. Five ships were assigned to implement 45 patrol tours with 289 emergency rescue personnel. The rescue work lasted for 23 days, helping the local company complete the work on safety protection of the oil leakage ship, fire monitoring and oil spilling control.
44
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Accepting supervision from society
We hire external group including college professors, 
social commentators, securities analysts and consumer representatives as social supervisors. And by communicating public opinions regularly, we welcome social supervision to provide constructive suggestions to the management and the operation.
Establishing media platforms
We establish official microblog and WeChat accounts to communicate with netizens, release news, and convey petrochemical knowledge. By the end of 2017, the followers of Sinopec in Microblog and WeChat had reached 2.16 million.
Building international communication 
platforms
In 2017, we carried out the activity of “Sinopec in the Eyes of 
International Media”. We organised communication meetings to promote mutual understanding. The followers of the Sinopec official Facebook account were increased to about 600,000 from the original 10,000 in 2016. The followers of our official Twitter account were increased to about 20,000. We continued to support Global Compact Network China, held and attended 2017 China Business Summit on Achieving SDGs, sharing our experience with other Chinese enterprises and pursuing the sustainable development jointly.Strengthening Public Communication
Enhancing communication with local 
residents
We value communication with local residents. Our 
subsidiaries have accumulatively held 3,193 sessions of Sinopec Open Day for six consecutive years. A total of 62 enterprises have successively been open to welcome 122,000 people to have a factory tour. In 2017, the Company held 491 sessions of Sinopec Open Day in 30 subsidiaries in 24 cities, welcoming 25,000 participants. During project implementation, the Company evaluates possible environmental impacts, collects public opinions by means of newspaper and online notification, announcements or questionnaire surveys, and compiles feature reports to submit to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for review, public notification and approval.
45
Shared Development
Advancing win-win cooperation with 
customers
Enhancing quality management
We strive to practice the quality goals of “Quality first 
and quantity sufficient, customer satisfaction”. In order to guarantee the quality of external refined oil, Sinopec Marketing Company establishes the quality management system aligned with GB/ T19001 standards and set up the quality inspection mechanism and a negative list. Integrating different industry standards, Sinopec Lubricant establishes the quality management system based on ISO 9001 to meet special requirements of customers from different industries for product and service quality. In 2017, Sinopec Lubricant produced 34,540 batches of lubricant grease. The qualified rate reached 100 percent according to the delivery inspection.
Providing satisfying service for customers
We explore the potentials of oil station network and expand services such as automobile service, insurance, fast food and advertisements, and promote the new business model of “internet + sales + service” to offer diversified services, providing convenience for customers; we enlarge cross-border e-commerce business to provide overseas customers with a large quantity of high-quality products. For Sinopec chemical products sales, the links between production, sales and research are closely connected and the MPRC (marketing, production, research and customers) team is established to provide customised service for customers.
Since 2008, Sinopec Marketing Company has conducted 
questionnaire surveys among customers. Through the survey, comments and suggestions on products and services are collected. The main content of the questionnaire covers 20 appraisal questions in five parts including employee service, fuel card service, service environment, oil products quantity, quality and safety, and convenience store service. In 2017, Sinopec Chemical Sales Company distributed 3,549 questionnaires, and the feedback rate reaches 89%. After the survey, customers’ feedback on individualised needs for product packaging and performance were sent to the manufacturing subsidiaries. Sinopec Lubricant continued to entrust a third party to investigate the overall customer satisfaction among three customer groups, i.e. companies, retailers and distributors.Promoting Win-win Cooperation in the Value Chain
Case Study: Touching Customers with 
Thoughtful Service
On the night of June 19, 2017, Sinopec Lubricant 
received an emergency call from a customer. The customer explained that his ship ran into malfunction in air compressor because of high temperature and suspected that the incident was caused by oil product quality. The company instantly established a technical service team containing marketing, technical support and product R&D personnel to inspect the problem on site. After eliminating the cause of oil product quality, the team helped the ship owner remove equipment faults, safeguarding his business not to be affected.
The ship owner expressed that “Although the 
malfunction was not caused by oil product quality, you take it as your own responsibility and quickly figured out the real cause. I really appreciate it! 
You not only have good products, but also care 
for customers’ real needs. Sinopec Lubricant is a partner worth trusting and deserves respect and long-term cooperation.”
84
100
92
100
85
100Item 2017
Customer satisfaction for refined oil products(%)
Customer complaint settlement rate in refined oil 
product sales (%)
Customer satisfaction for chemical products (%)Customer complaint settlement rate in chemical 
product sales (%)
Customer satisfaction for lubricant (%)Customer complaint settlement rate in lubricant 
sales (%)46
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Promoting win-win cooperation in the industry
While making efforts in self-development, we also facilitate 
industrial standards formulation. In 2017, we participated in draft compilation of five national standards for intelligent factories in petrochemical industry, which were approved by the MIIT in the first stage. Based on the planning and construction practice of intelligent factories, 61 standards of four categories and 39 templates of four categories were designed, preliminarily formulating the national standardisation system for petrochemical industry in China. Based on Sinopec’s practices, we participated in formulation and amendment of 17 laws and regulations, including Energy Law, Labour Contract Law, Soil Pollution 
Prevention and Control, Water Pollution Prevention and Control, Environmental Protection Tax Law, Regulations on the Administration of Environmental Protection in the Exploration and Development of Offshore Petroleum, Anti-smuggling Regulations, Regulations on the Administration of Construction Project Environmental Protection, and Regulations on Safety Production Law, and proposed over 50 suggestions to related governmental departments.Protecting customers’ privacy
We value protection of customer information. We have strict regulations on administration authorities to avoid customer information leakage. In 2017, we formulated the network security protection plan, improved the data centres protection, and organised information system maintenance and self-inspection. We also strengthened training of confidentiality management regulations to improve employees’ awareness of customer privacy protection.Promoting win-win cooperation in the value 
chain  
We advocate the pursuit of shared values with our 
contractors, suppliers, purchasers and operators and build an open, just, transparent and honest value chain. By promoting the use of our construction project E-trading system, we can monitor business operations, management, trading, assessment and appraisals via an online supervision system.
Improving management capability of safety & 
environmental protection in the value chain
We have established the project quality monitoring system 
and realised 100 % monitoring of project construction. We promote supplier HSE management, and have integrated ISO 14000 and ISO18000 accreditation, establishment of production safety emergency management system and labour protection measures, and emissions and waste disposal into the standards of review. We also include related qualifications for green and low-carbon enterprises into bidding invitation and evaluation standards to urge suppliers to improve environmental protection awareness and capability. In 2017, the accreditation rate of suppliers by the QES (quality, environment and safety) management system reached 26.7%, increasing 1.9 percentage points YoY.
Sinopec Marketing Company examines contractor safety 
management work on site and helps contractors implement rectification measures for management loopholes and hidden safety hazards to improve contractors’ safety management. The company conducts operation inspection among contractors, enhances contractors’ safety management during transportation, and timely informs them of the inspection results, assisting to implement rectification work. The company also convenes safety training for contractors, and organises contingency drills for contractors to improve their response capability.47
Shared Development
Enhancing the supervision and appraisal mechanism
We increase efforts in appraisal of engineering projects. We retain “Veto Power” 
over engineering projects in which relatively serve accidents (incidents) of quality, safety and environmental responsibility occur or corruption incurred legal liabilities happen. For suppliers who break clean operation regulations, we abolish their trading qualification and forbid them to have trading transactions with Sinopec Corp. within three years. We implement hierarchical management and dynamic appraisal of materials procurement, and adjust supplier grading monthly to urge suppliers to boost their service capability. In 2017, 1,835 items of materials inventory owned by 994 suppliers were upgraded while 580 items of materials inventory owned by 52 suppliers were downgraded.
Providing training for supply chain partners
We regularly convene training for suppliers, focusing on supplied resources management, tendering and bidding management systems as well as the honest operation concept. We also promote the construction of HSE drill training base in large projects. In 2017, the total training for suppliers was over 3,000 person-time.
100
19.4100
24.8100
26.7Item 2015 2016 2017
Percentage of contractors 
certificated by the QES manage -
ment system (%)
Percentage of suppliers 
certificated by the QES manage -
ment system (%)48
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Openness and Win-
Win Cooperation
Contributing to Community of a Shared Future
The UN 2030 Agenda calls for global partnerships for sustainable 
development. Economic globalisation provides strong power for global economic growth and promotes commodity and capital flows as well as science and technology and cultural progress. China gives equal emphasis to "bringing in" and “going global”, pursues the Belt and Road Initiative as a priority, and follows the principle of achieving shared growth through discussion and collaboration to form globally-oriented networks of trade, investment and financing, production, and services. With these efforts, China hopes to make economic globalisation more open, inclusive, beneficial balanced so that the benefits are shared by all, offerings Chinese wisdom and Chinese approaches for global sustainability.Our challenges and opportunities49
Openness and Win-Win Cooperation
50
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Topic: Sinopec EPEC Builds Global Partnership
The businesses of Sinopec Corp. 
cover 66 industries out of 96 industries in China. Based on the new model of SC2B (Supply Chain to Business) e-commerce operation featured by internet + supply chain, Sinopec Corp. actively implements open cooperation and development strategies; relying on industrial foundation, Sinopec Corp. builds EPEC e-commerce platform for industrial products. In 2017, EPEC was listed as the only e-commerce platform for industrial products to BRICKS countries, the pilot demonstration project of Chinese manufacturing and internet integrated development, and one of the eight core achievements of BRICKS Council for Industry and Commerce. EPEC is listed as one of Best Practices in Building Global Partnership in achieving SDGs by the Global Compact Network China.
Building interconnected industrial 
ecological network
The 66 industries covered by Sinopec 
Corp. are respectively supported by one supply chain. Every supply chain links hundreds of entities, forming an industrial ecological network, where Sinopec Corp. is located in the centre. Through EPEC, Sinopec Corp. promotes vertical and horizontal collaboration in the network, thus realising the maximisation of values created and contributing to entity economy growth.
Cooperate with neighbouring countries 
for shared prosperity
EPEC actively fulfills the Belt and 
Road Initiative, promotes “Made in China” to go global and brings in prime products, and realises communication between people through trading and capital financing & investment, adding new driving forces to shared sustainability. In April 2017, EPEC launched the international business platform to help more enterprises from different countries to enter each other’s market and facilitate people to have easy access to superior products and services, meeting people’s growing needs for a better life.
Providing professional procurement
With professional background, expert 
teams and strict access & appraisal standards, EPEC has launched the service index appraisal system, and formulated the dynamic quality appraisal of goods and services, the supplier star-classification assessment mechanism and the product trial assessment mechanism, which 
cover 56 major categories of materials 
such as bulk raw materials, professional equipment, refined raw materials, and special materials, providing society with trustworthy and high quality products and services.
Value-added service facilitates partners' 
sustainability
Relying on data of business orders, 
payable accounts to Sinopec Corp. and to its suppliers, EPEC helps suppliers apply for bank financing and provides credit support service. Meanwhile, EPEC helps suppliers apply for bank financing and provides credit support service. EPEC launches services covering logistics, manufacture supervision, insurance, finance and account settlement, etc. and provides society with value-added services such as third-party procurement and tendering, third-party payment, bid data analysis, credit ratings and market promotion.
Core data (by the 
end of 2017)
42.82 million products in 2.46 
million categories
45,500 registered enterprise 
members
128,000 registered users 
The accumulative turnover 
reached RMB 181.7 billion 
RMB 3.7 billion was applied 
for financing based on credits
Operated in 43 countries and 
regions including the USA, Brazil and Germany, etc. 
Cooperated with 20 suppliers 
and 260 purchasers from 38 
countries or regions along the 
Belt and Road51
Openness and Win-Win Cooperation
We implement the strategy of going global and actively 
conduct overseas operation, promoting development of local economy, as well as upgrading of manufacturing industry chain and improvement of employment rate. The Company invests in 4 oil and gas exploration and extraction projects in Kazakhstan, Russia, Columbia and Angola, and 6 refining & chemical and warehousing logistics projects in five countries including Holland, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Russia and the United Arab 
The overseas subsidiaries value localised operation and 
drive development of local economy and improvement of local people’s life. Under the framework of building international talent pool and recruiting local employees, adhering to labour policies that advocate equality, freedom 
Facilitating local development
Adhering to the principles of integrity, standardised operations, win-win cooperation, and serving the local communities and making contributions to local economy, we persist in honest tax payment, and promote local economic and social development. 
The overseas subsidiaries attach importance to localised 
procurement and staffing. In 2017, staff localisation rates of Columbia’s Mansarovar Energy Project, and Russian UDM maintained above 99%. Localised procurement rates Overseas Development Offers New Development Opportunities
Implementing Localised Operation
Emirates. At present, the Company has overseas annual 
production capacity including 7.5 million tonnes of oil refining, 1.16 million cubic metres of warehousing, 80,000 tonnes of lubricant grease and 10,500 tonnes of ABR. The Company continues to deepen trading cooperation, with the annual imported crude oil reaching 209 million tonnes and the trading volume reaching 339 million tonnes in 2017.
and zero discrimination, we provide jobs for local people, 
protect employees’ legitimate rights & interests and safety, and hold professional skill training for local employees. We fully respect the local traditions and religious belief.
of Arman, one subsidiary of Kazakhstan CIR, and BOL, a 
joint operation company, respectively reached 96% and 89%, while average localised staffing rate exceeded 95%, driving the development of local oil and gas industry. The joint venture KOA was awarded Best Labour Contract by the Ackermann government of Kazakhstan. In Yasref, the percentage of employees with Saudi Arabia nationality reached 82%, a relatively higher level of staff localisation compared with other enterprises.52
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Winners at UDM Youth Forum Trainees of the 6th training course for 
key positions of overseas employees participate in research tours of domestic oilfields, refining & chemical, engineering and sales enterprises 
Enhancing local environmental protection
We conduct surveys on legal compliance in environmental management in 
countries where businesses are located. We comprehensively sort out laws and regulations on management of “Three Wastes”, protection of water resources, biological diversity and land protection, etc. The environmental management compliance rate reached 100%.
The subsidiaries of CIR value environmental protection and annually revise the 
environmental protection plan of air, water, underground resources and biological diversity. They conduct environmental monitoring according to laws and standardise waste management regulations and waste disposal plans. In 2017, the subsidiaries invested $1.12 million in environmental protection; neither major environmental accident nor environmental fine occurred throughout the year. Arman and KOA obtained the certification of ISO 14001:2004 environmental protection management system. Every year, Arman hires a third party to monitor and inspect flora and fauna in oilfields and strictly protects the ecological environment of oilfields from damage. The 15,000-tonne waste generated by the oilfield of BOL was all treated for recycling. KOA planted 5,400 saplings to restore the original oilfield landform. In 2017, Arman and KKM were respectively awarded Certifications of Ecological Protection “Responsibility-2017” for Small and medium-sized Enterprises in Kazakhstan.
UDM implements the ISO 14001 standards and the OHSAS 18001 standards. 
For five consecutive years, no severe environmental pollution, ecological deterioration nor soil spilling incident occurred. The emission level is better than the industrial standards.Enhancing local employees’ capability
CIR holds various training of professional skills, industrial safety, occupational safety and environmental protection. In 2017, KKM company organised 471 person-time of business training and 359 person-time of industrial safety training; Arman organised 64 person-time of various training. UDM establishes a set of collaborative training model covering high school, college and enterprise, and adds special course of oil industry to provide students with more job opportunities. UDM also holds youth science and technology forums and professional skill competitions to promote exchanges of science and technology outcomes among employees and improve employees’ career development.
%100The environmental management 
compliance rate reached53
Openness and Win-Win Cooperation
All the overseas subsidiaries focus on development of local communities and 
increase efforts in infrastructure construction to guarantee livelihood, which covers education, medical care, culture and traffic.
The subsidiaries of CIR take active part in public welfare. KKM participates in 
targeted poverty alleviation to help lift disabled people out of poverty, donates fund to support local children’s education, and helps maintenance of local orphanages; KOA helps disadvantaged groups and provides subsidies to local orphanages; every year, UDM sets up charity fund in the annual operation plan, helps local children with education and traffic safety, and assists construction of sports and recreation sites for local residents. In 2017, UDM won the honour of Enterprise with the Most Fulfillment of Social Responsibility in Russia.
An appreciation letter from local residents to KOAConducting Public Welfare to Benefit Local 
harmonious Development
Honorable Lynette Nurhodshalouray,
As the Constitution Day and Eid al-Adha 
draw closer, please allow me to present festival greetings to you and your staff in KOA! 
We sincerely extend our gratitude to KOA 
for all the public welfare activities for local communities. Especially the Hope Projct activity offers our children a happy summer 
vacation. The elderly in local communities 
are deeply touched by the caring and assistance provided by you. 
On behalf of all villagers, I would like to wish  
KOA get more achievements in future!
- R.K. Uhlgeneshebajef , Director of Kumrerre Joint Village54
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Outlook
When stepping into a new era, the principal contradiction facing Chinese 
society has evolved to be that between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people's ever-growing needs for a better life. At the same time, all parties have been taking actions to promote the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Inheriting the enterprise mission of Powering a Better Life for You, we will continue practicing the five key development strategies (value-oriented, innovation-driven, integrated resource allocation, open cooperation, and green and low-carbon growth), and focus on better meeting people’ s 
individualised, diversified and escalating needs. We will make active response to stakeholders’ expectations, deepen the supply-side structural reform and practice green development. While committing to be a model to guide and drive the energy production and consumption revolution, improve supply quality, rejuvenate the real economy, and develop a modernised economy, we will strive to achieve comprehensive and sustainable development by developing the industry and benefiting the people, and build a highly responsible and respectable leading enterprise in the industry.55
 Key Performance
Key Performance
Indicators
Safety performanceEconomic performance
Total assets (RMB billion)
Total liabilities (RMB billion)
Revenue (RMB billion)
Net profits attributable to shareholders of the Company (RMB billion)Dividends declared (RMB billion)
Dividends pay-out ratio (%)
Taxes and fees paid (RMB billion)Oil and gas production (mmboe)
Crude oil production (mmbbls) 
Natural gas production (bcf)Refinery throughput(million tonnes) 
Ethylene output (thousand tonnes)
Total sales volume of oil products (million tonnes) Chemical sales volume (million tonnes) 2017 2015
1,447.3
657.7
2,020.4
32.2818.16
56.4
327.4
471.91
349.47
734.79236.49
11,118
189.33
62.872016
1,498.6
666.1
1,930.9
46.4230.15
64.9
316.1
431.29
303.51
766.12235.53
11,059
194.84 
69.96
Indicators
Employee occupational health examination coverage (%)
Health check-up and health file coverage (%)
Number of newly diagnosed cases of occupational diseases
Safety training coverage (%)Number of deaths 2015 2016 2017
98.998.9
6
100
798.998.9
19
100
299
99
21
100
31,595.5 
741.4 
2,360.2 
51.12 60.54 
118.4328.3
448.79
293.66
912.50238.50
11,610
198.75 
78.5056
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Society
Indicators
Social contribution per share (RMB/share) 
Social contributions (RMB billion) 
Total number of employees
Number of new employees during the reporting periodNumber of attrition
Percentage of female employees (%)
Percentage of female managers (%)Collective contract coverage (%)
Social insurance coverage (%)
Annuity coverage (%)Percentage of employees with membership of labour union (%)
Donations (RMB million)
Number of patients cured under the Lifeline Express ProgrammeContributions to cultural education, community development and 
medical service (RMB million)2015 2016 2017
3.542
428.8
351,019
2,633
18,361
29.4626.74
100
100
100100
111.85
3,286
           6,7543.606436.6
451,611* 
17,897*
19,144
35.95*12.88*
100
100
76.89*
100
132.88
3,248
6,5843.778457.4
446,225*
21,887*
26,128
35.9*
12.76*
100100
73.90*
100
151.88
3,1266,652
Social contribution per share is calculated according to the definition in the Guideline on Environmental Information Disclosure by Listed Compan ies of SSE.
We reformed the employment system in 2016 and changed the statistics methods and dimensions of staff data. The data of number of female em ployees, percentage of 
female employees in operation management posts, and enterprise annuity coverage were adjusted accordingly. 
Number of new employees: the number of contract employees who are newly employed, transferred and introduced (the number of new employe es for common posts in 
sales subsidiaries such as oilers reached 19,048 in 2017), excluding the number of those hired in dispatch system.Number of attrition: the reduction in the number of contract employees who retire, die or are transferred from the Sinopec system (excluding the o rganic-unit reduction 
caused by business transfer and joint venture cooperation, etc.).  *57
 Key Performance
Environmental performance
Indicators
The Company conducts GHG emission (direct and indirect)accounting and verification according to ISO14064-1:2006 standards, covering six gases including carbon 
dioxide, methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide (N 2O), hydro fluoro carbons (HFCs), perfluorinated compounds(PFCs) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6). The Company is currently 
verifying the relative GHG emission data of the year 2017 and as at the date of disclosure, the verification hasn’t yet be finished.
According to the requirements of Environmental Social and Governance Reporting Guide  of HKEx, listed companies should disclose the data of discharges into water 
and air emissions, and total hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste produced, water consumption intensity, and total packaging material used for finished products.
(1) Concerning the four main pollutants including COD and ammonia nitrogen in externally discharged waste water as well as sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides in 
external air emissions, the Announcement on Issuing the Catalogue of Repealed Regulatory Documents issued by the Ministry of Environmental Protection in November 
2017 abolishes the calculation methods of the main pollutants specified by Announcement on Issuing the Calculation Method of Emission Reduction in Main Pollutants 
during the 1 2th Five-Year Plan and Announcement on the Calculation and Supervision Methods of Main Pollutants during the 1 2th Five-Year Plan. Our subsidiaries have 
been applying for pollutant permits according to new regulatory documents such as Implementation Plan of Pollutant Permit, Directory of Solid Waste Discharge Permits (2017 Version) , and Technical Specification for Application and Issuance of Pollutant Permit in Petrochemical Industry . We can only calculate pollutant discharge data 
according to the pollutant permits of our subsidiaries. At present, the work on pollutant permit application has not been completed in some subsidiaries of Sinopec Corp. As a result, we are not able to disclose the data of discharges into water and air. 
 (2) Concerning hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, according to the new requirements of Directory of National Hazardous Wastes , we have been working on 
identification and assessment of solid waste and unifying statistics methods and dimensions of all kinds of solid wastes. At present, we cannot calculate the data of total 
hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste produced.
 (3) Concerning water consumption intensity, since Sinopec Corp. has a wide range of businesses in upstream and downstream industry chains, including oil & gas 
exploitation, refining, chemicals, marketing and international trade, etc., we cannot calculate water consumption density.
 (4) Concerning the total packaging material used for finished products, since Sinopec Corp has dozens of subsidiaries and covers a wide range of businesses, which 
use various packaging materials such as iron, steel, wood, plastics and woven bags, and various packaging types such as barrels, boxes and bags in different sizes; part of the packages can be recycled; we cannot calculate total packaging material used for finished products.*Greenhouse gas emission (million tonnes CO2-equivalent)
       Direct
       IndirectGreenhouse gas emission based on segment (million tonnes CO
2-equivalent)
       E&P segment       Refining and chemical segment       Marketing segment
CO
2 emission reduction (million tonnes CO2-equivalent)
CO2 capture (thousand tonnes)
Methane recovery (million cubic metres) 2017
882
0.496
1.41
3.35
28.86
 15.08
936
162.66123.05
39.61
-
30.55
129.49
2.625.42
270220Energy conserved (thousand tonnes of standard coal)
Consumption of comprehensive energy per RMB 10,000 of production value  (tonne of standard coal） 
Crude oil consumption (million tonnes)
Natural gas consumption (billion cubit metres) Electricity consumption (billion kWh) Coal consumption (million tonnes ）
Industrial water intake  (million cubic metres ）58
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Index
IndexThe Environmental, Social and Governance 
Reporting Guide of Hong Kong Stock ExchangeSinopec Information Update for 2017
General Disclosure
General DisclosureA1.1
A1.2
A1.3
A1.4A1.5
A1.6P29、P32
P29、P30、P34P57
P57P57
P57
P29-34P33
A2.1A2.2A2.3
A2.4
A2.5P56
P57
P29、P30P34
P57A1 Emissions
Key Performance Indicators
A2 Use of Resources
General Disclosure P29、P32、P34、P35
A3.1 P29-35
B1.1
B1.2Refer to the Annual Report of 2017-
General Disclosure P27
B2.1B2.2
B2.3P55
-
P27、P28A3 Environment and Natural Resources
General Disclosure P40、P41 B1 EmploymentKey Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicators
B2 Health and Safety
General Disclosure P40、P41B3 Development and Training
General Disclosure P40 B4 Labour StandardsKey Performance Indicators
B3.1
B3.2P41
P41Key Performance Indicators
B4.1B4.2--Key Performance IndicatorsThe Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide of Hong Kong Stock 
Exchange Checklist59
 IndexIndexThe Environmental, Social and Governance 
Reporting Guide of Hong Kong Stock ExchangeSinopec Information Update for 2017
General Disclosure
General DisclosureA1.1
A1.2
A1.3
A1.4A1.5
A1.6P29、P32
P29、P30、P34P57
P57P57
P57
P29-34P33
A2.1A2.2A2.3
A2.4
A2.5P56
P57
P29、P30P34
P57A1 Emissions
Key Performance Indicators
A2 Use of Resources
General Disclosure P29、P32、P34、P35
A3.1 P29-35
B1.1
B1.2Refer to the Annual Report of 2017-
General Disclosure P27
B2.1B2.2
B2.3P55
-
P27、P28A3 Environment and Natural Resources
General Disclosure P40、P41 B1 EmploymentKey Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicators
B2 Health and Safety
General Disclosure P40、P41B3 Development and Training
General Disclosure P40 B4 Labour StandardsKey Performance Indicators
B3.1
B3.2P41P41Key Performance Indicators
B4.1B4.2-
-Key Performance IndicatorsThe Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide of Hong Kong Stock 
Exchange Checklist
General Disclosure P46 B5 Supply Chain Management
General Disclosure P45、P46 B6 Product Responsibility
General Disclosure P22 B7 Anti-corruptionB5.1
B5.2Refer to the Annual Report of 2017P46、P47Key Performance Indicators
B6.1
B6.2B6.3
B6.4
B6.5-
P45
P13、P21P45
P46Key Performance Indicators
B7.1
B7.2-P22、P23Key Performance IndicatorsIndexThe Environmental, Social and Governance 
Reporting Guide of Hong Kong Stock ExchangeSinopec Information Update for 2017
UNGC 10 Principles Checklist
P22-23P03,P09,P40-41
P40-41
P40
P40
P40P40-41,P51
P29-31
P32-35,P52
P31Scope UNGC's 10 Principles Sinopec Information Update for 2017 
Human Rights
Labour
Environment
Anti-CorruptionBusinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 
human rights; and
make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 
Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 
of the right to collective bargaining;
the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labour;
the effective abolition of child Labour; and
the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 
Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges
undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.60
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
UNGC Advanced Level Criteria Checklist
P02-03,P06
P09,P13,P19,P27-28,p40-41,P51
P09,P22,P32-35,p39-47,P51-53
P09,P10,P16,P24,P36,P48
P02-03,P40-41,P51
P02-03,P40-41,P51P40-41
P40-41,P51-52,P56
P06,P40-P41
P40-41P40-41,P51
P40-41,P51-52,P56
P06,P29-35
P29-32
P29-32
P39-35,P52,P57
P06,P22
P22
P22
P22-23,P56
P46-47
Report Information
P59
-Scope Sinopec Information Update for 2017 Criteria for UNGC Advanced Level
UN Goals and 
Issues 
Human Rights 
Implementation 
Labour Principles 
Implementation 
Environmental 
Stewardship 
Implementation 
Anti-Corruption 
Implementation
Value Chain 
Implementation
Transparency 
and 
VerificationStrategy, 
Governance and 
Engagement Criterion 1: Key aspects of the company’s advanced level sustainability 
strategy in line with Global Compact principles 
Criterion 2: Effective decision-making processes and systems of 
governance for corporate sustainability 
Criterion 7: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights 
integration 
Criterion 11: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of the Labour 
principle integration 
Criterion 13: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of 
environmental stewardship 
Criterion 14: Effective management systems to integrate the environmental principle 
Criterion 15: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for 
environmental stewardship 
Criterion 17: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of 
anti-corruption
Criterion 18: Effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle
Criterion 19: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the 
integration of anti-corruption
Criterion 22: The COP provides information on the company’s profile and 
context of operation Criterion 3: Engagement with all important stakeholders 
Criterion 4: Actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issue
Criterion 5: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights
Criterion 6: Effective management systems to integrate the human rights principle 
Criterion 8: Key outcomes of the human rights integration
Criterion 9: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of Labour
Criterion 12: Key outcomes of the Labour principle integration
Criterion 16: Key outcomes of the environmental principle integration
Criterion 20: Key outcomes of the anti-corruption principle integration
Criterion 23: The COP incorporates high standards of transparency and disclosure
Criterion 24: The COP is independently verified by a credible third-partyCriterion 21: Implementation of the Global Compact principles in the value chain Criterion 10: Effective management systems to integrate the Labour principle61
 Index
Chapter of the COPGRI Guide on Sustainable Report （G4）Checklist
Report Information
Letter to Our Stakeholders
Sinopec Corp. Overview
Core Values of Sinopec Corp.Performance in 20172017 HonoursStakeholder Engagement and Material Issues
About Us
Innovation-Driven: 
Implementing New Concept of DevelopmentGRI index check
G4-18、G4-23、G4-28、G4-29、G4-30、G4-31
G4-1、G4-2
G4-8、
G4-1、G4-43、G4-56G4-9、G4-10、G4-EC1
G4-19、G4-24、G4-25、G4-26、G4-27、G4-37、
G4-49、G4-50
Technological Innovation Contributes to Supply-Side Structural Reforms
Boosting Integration of Industrialisation and 
Informatisation to Upgrade the Traditional Manufacturing IndustryG4-EC8
G4-EC8
G4-EC8
G4-EC8G4-2G4-2G4-57、G4-58、G4-SO4
Advancing Work Safety and Public Security steadilyProactively Addressing Climate ChangeEnhancing Environmental ProtectionProtecting Biological DiversitySoil RemediationG4-LA5、G4-LA6G4-EC2、G4-EN3、G4-EN15、G4-EN20、G4-EN31G4-EN7、G4-EN9、G4-EN10、G4-EN21、G4-EN27G4-EN11、G4-EN12G4-EN13
Targeted Poverty Alleviation Work Statistics 2017Our Principles for Human RightsSharing Development with EmployeesServing SocietyStrengthening Public CommunicationPromoting Win-win Cooperation in the Value ChainG4-EC3、G4-EC7G4-HR3G4-LA2、G4-LA9G4-SO2、G4-EC7G4-SO2G4-12、G4-EC9、G4-LA15、G4-EN33、G4-PR5
Overseas Development Offers New Development 
Opportunities
Implementing Localised OperationConducting Public Welfare to Benefit Local 
Balanced DevelopmentG4-2
G4-27、G4-EC7
G4-SO1、G4-EC7
Outlook
Key Performance
Index
FeedbackG4-2
G4-EC1、G4-EN3、G4-EN5
G4-32
G4-31Deepening Reform: 
Being an Enterprise with Scientific and Normative   Gover-nance in the New Era
Promoting Green 
Development ：
Progressing in Safety, Ecological and Environmental Protection
Shared Development: 
Serving the People for a Better Life
Openness and 
Win-Win Cooperation: Contributing to Community of a Shared FutureRevitalising the Real Economy through 
Supply-side Structural Reforms
Transformation Created New Momentum for 
Development
Risk ManagementAdvancing the Law-based OperationDeepening Anti-Corruption62
Sinopec Corp. 2017 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Feedback
Respected Readers,
Thank you for reading this Report. Your opinions and suggestions are important to us and can help us improve the 
preparation of future reports. Please help us by completing the following Feedback Form and sending it to the following address:
Secretariat of the Board
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation No.22 Chaoyangmen North Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100728, PRC 
Your Information 
Name:
Employer:                                                  Title:Contact Tel:                                               Fax:                                                 E-mail:
Open-ended questions
1. What do you find most satisfying in this Report?
2. What other information do you think should be included in this Report?
3. What suggestions do you have for our preparation of the sustainable development progress report in the future?Content
This Report completely and accurately describes the significant 
impact of Sinopec Corp. on the economy, society and environment. 
This Report responds to and discloses information about the concerns 
of stakeholders.
The information, indicators and data disclosed by this Report are 
clear, accurate and complete. 
This Report’s logic line, content, text and wording, and layout are well 
designed. Very good Good Poor Very poor FairNew Era  New Journey  Powering a Better Life for YouSinopec Corp. 
Communication on Progress  for Sustainable Development