Communication on Progress
for Sustainable DevelopmentSinopec Corp.
CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORPORATION (Sinopec Corp.)
No. 22 Chaoyangmen North StreetChaoyang DistrictBeijing 100728 PRCTel：86-10-59960028
Fax：86-10-59960386Website：www.sinopec.com
引领未来责任
This report is printed on environmentally friendly paperResponsibility Leads the Future
2015
Annual sustainable development reports
Special ReportsReporting System
2006 – 2011 sustainable development reports
2012 – 2014 Communication on Progress
Environmental 
Protection ReportShale Gas ESG 
Report 
CSR website: http://www.sinopec.com/environment_society/Make Every Drop 
Count – Sinopec’s 
CSR Theory and 
Practice Initial stage of 
the projectBenchmarking 
analysis
Material 
collection
Report 
ﬁnalisationExternal evaluation 
of the reportReport publishingSubstantial issue 
analysis
Report 
preparationReport designFormulation of the indicator 
system and report framework
Meeting to solicit opinions 
of stakeholdersKickoﬀ meeting
Mid-stage of 
the project
Final stage of 
the project
Report Information
Preparation Process
Routine information disclosure
This Sustainable Development Report or Commu -
nication on Progress 2015 (hereinafter referred to 
as the “Report” or “COP”) covers the relevant information about China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (hereinafter referred to as “Sinopec Corp.”, “the Company” or “we”) and our subsid -
Report Description
This COP covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2015 and the information contained herein comes from the oﬃcial documents and statistical reports of the Company. This COP is published in Chinese and English version. In case any inconsistency arises, the Chinese version shall prevail.
References
This COP is prepared in accordance with Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact(UNGC), the criteria of the Global Compact Advanced Communication on Progress, and by 
reference to Guideline on Environmental Information Disclosure by Listed Companies of Shanghai Stock Exchange
( SSE ), Environmental, Social and Governance 
Reporting Guide of Hong Kong Stock Exchange, and Chinese Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting Guidebook –Petrochemical Industry published by Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS-CSR3.0).
{
{
{iaries’ policies, strategies, performance, and 
internal control in relation to environment, society and governance in 2015. The Company’s Board of Directors approved this COP at the 5th meeting of the 6th Session of Board held on March 29, 2016.
Improvement
This COP focuses on two sections of Responsibili -
ty Creates Value and Responsibility Leads the Future, introducing how Sinopec Corp. has created economic, social and cultural value through practicing corporate citizenship in the past 15 years since it was listed. It also demon -
strates the Company’s concepts, practices and achievements in responding to the expectations and attention of stakeholders in 2015 by promot -
ing innovative development, coordinated development, green development, open develop-ment and shared development, as well as the Company’s leadership in creating value for the 
future.
2006 2010 2007 2011 2008 2009
2012 2013 2014
2012 2012 2014Company Proﬁle
Sinopec Corp. is a large scale integrated energy 
and petrochemical company with upstream, midstream and downstream operations which enables the company with strong strengths. Its principal operations include the exploration and production, pipeline transportation and sales of petroleum and natural gas; the sale, 
storage and transportation of petroleum prod-
ucts, petrochemical products, coal chemical products, synthetic ﬁber and other chemical products; the import and export, including an import and export agency business, of petro-leum, natural gas, petroleum products, petro-chemical and chemical products, and other commodities and technologies; and research, development and application of technologies and information.
1
        
 
50
52
55
56
57CONTENTS
Report Information
Company Proﬁle
Address from Chairman
Responsibility Integrated into Management
Key Performance
Looking Forward 
Rating Report
AppendicesCreating Economic Value
Promoting Social ValueEnriching Cultural Value 
Innovative Development Leads
to an Excellent Future
Coordinated Development Leads 
to a Sustainable Future Green Development Leads to a Beautiful Future
Shared Development Leads 
to a Harmonious Future
Open Development Leads 
to a Win-Win Future
Responsibility Creates Value
Responsibility Leads the Future
Social contribution per share 
(RMB Yuan/share)
Social contribution (RMB billion)3.542
 428.83.505
414.63.719
433.54.812015 2014 2013 2012
417.6
(Calculated according to the deﬁnition of Guideline on Environmental Information Disclosure by Listed Companies of SSE.)
13
21255
7
9
33
47The Company is a large producer of oil and gas 
in China. Its reﬁning capacity ranks ﬁrst in China and second globally. Equipped with a well-developed reﬁned oil products sales net-work, the Company is the largest supplier of reﬁned oil products in China. The Company’ s ethylene production capacity ranks ﬁrst in 
China and fourth in the world, and it has built a 
well-established marketing network for chemi-cal products. The Company upholds the sustainable development philosophy, executes green and low-carbon development strategies, and attaches great importance to fulﬁlling social responsibilities. While realising our own growth, we share our development achieve-ments with stakeholders.Wang Yupu
Chairman
March 29, 2016Address from Chairman
1 2Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Address from Chairman
In 2015, we continued to perform our responsibili-
ties as a corporate citizen by serving the people and society whole-heartedly according to the Ten Principles of the UNGC, the criteria of the Global Compact Advanced Communication on Progress, 
and China’s low-carbon development require-ments. We increased our emphasis on deepening reforms, integrating resources and controls, driving innovation and creating value. And as we continued to practice innovative and coordinat-ed development, we joined with stakeholders in seeking opportunities for green, open and shared development. As a result, we made new progress in achieving sustainable development.We practiced coordinated development to help make a sustainable future. In an environment of weak oil prices, we coordinated the development of our integrated businesses, achieving rapid growth in the reﬁning and petrochemical business, steady develop-ment of the marketing segment, and advances in both the emerging and traditional oil and gas business, demonstrating our strong ability to resist risk and sustain proﬁtability.
We practiced green development to help make a beauti-
ful future. As a lead participant of the UNGC, we contin -
ued to support the UNGC Network China in organising the Third China Summit on Caring for Climate, encouraging Chinese enterprises to carry out green and low-carbon development. We enjoyed growth in both the reserve and production of shale gas; our bio-jet fuel was successfully deployed in its ﬁrst commercial passenger ﬂight; we further upgraded the quality of our reﬁned oil products; and our 
Dear Friends,
First of all, on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Sinopec Corp., I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to shareholders and people from 
all sectors of society for their attention and support.
The past year witnessed Sinopec’s further 
eﬀorts to promote sustainable development. The United Nations adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which deﬁnes 17 post-2015 objectives. A new, gener-ally binding climate agreement was reached at the Paris Conference on Climate Change, 
and China has committed to the international community its intended nationally deter-mined contributions. China has also adopted stricter environmental protection laws, and will accelerate its commitment to create an ecological civilisation as part of its 13th Five-Year Plan. At the same time, the economic and social demand for clean energy such as natural gas and high-end petrochemical products grew quickly, increasing the urgency for Sinopec to achieve sustainable development.management of carbon assets improved continuous-
ly. The Company invested RMB 18.87 billion in advanc-ing the Clear Water and Blue Sky Campaign and the Energy Conservation Plan. In 2015, the Company’s energy intensity dropped by 1.57% year on year, 
industrial water consumption dropped by 1.0%, COD in waste water discharge dropped by 4.14%, and sulfur dioxide emissions dropped by 4.84%.We also achieved 100% proper disposal of hazardous chemicals, waste gas, waste water and industrial residue. We practiced shared development to help make a harmonious future. Within the Company, we imple-mented measures to increase production safety, to 
respect and protect employees’ rights and interests, to create career development paths for our employ -
ees, to ensure occupational safety, to develop our corporate culture, and to create a happy work environment. In the industrial chain, we fulﬁlled our responsibilities as a partner, strengthened the management of our contractors and implemented responsible procurement practices while building a healthy supply-chain culture. In addition, we contin -
ued to support community development, actively contributed to society, and participated in public welfare activities including poverty alleviation, disaster relief, aid to Xinjiang and Tibet and the Lifeline Express programme etc.
We practiced open development to help make a 
future where all parties win. We actively supported the One Belt, One Road initiative. China’s largest investment project in Saudi Arabia and Sinopec’s ﬁrst overseas reﬁning and chemical project, Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Reﬁning Company Ltd., commenced commercial operations. We also invested in Sibur, Russia’s largest natural gas processing and petro-chemical company, to expand our overseas business platform. Furthermore, we were actively engaged in public welfare abroad, supported employee localisa -
tion, and carried out energy conservation, emission reduction and community construction programmes.
In 2015, the Company had total revenues and other 
operating income of RMB 2,018.9billion, paid RMB327.4 billion in taxes and fees and declared to distribute RMB 18.2 billion  dividends to shareholders. Meanwhile, the Company supplied 189 million tonnes of reﬁned oil products and 62.87 million tonnes of chemical products to consumers.We practiced innovative development to help make an excellent future. The Company’s sustainable development governance structure continued to improve, and we made further progress in anti-corruption, eﬃciency supervi -
sion and business transparency. We responded to the state’s call for Mass Entrepreneurship and Innovation, and we continued to build our At present, guided by the concepts of innovative, 
coordinated, green, open and shared development, our Board of Directors and management are execut-ing our ﬁve key development strategies: value-orient-ed development; innovation-driven development; 
resources planning; open and cooperative develop- ment; and green and low-carbon development, with    the aim of facilitating higher-quality development that is both more beneﬁcial and more sustainable. Looking ahead, as one of China’s largest listed compa-nies, a lead member of the UNGC and a signatory of the Caring for Climate initiative, with a long-term perspective and a practical approach, Sinopec will vigorously work to build an ecological civilisation and 
promote the principles of green and low-carbon development. In so doing, we will develop and utilise resources to provide energy and high-quality products and services for society and our people, leading the way with responsibility and creating a bright future for the next generations.
The development of Sinopec is not possible without 
your care and support. We look forward to joining hands with you to build a beautiful home and a beautiful life.technological innovation systems and mechanisms. Sinopec’s eﬃcient and environmentally friendly aromatics package technology was awarded National Special Prize for Progress in Science and Technology, and we cultivated new technological talent and skill masters. We  implemented the Made in China 2025 initiative and vigorously promoted 
integration of industrialisation and information technology. 
As a result, our subsidiaries made remarkable achievement in building smart plants.3 43 4Sinopec Corp. performs its responsibilities as a corporate citizen by 
serving the people and the society whole-heartedly. The Company is committed to value creation and improvement throughout the complete process of corporate reform and development, produc-tion and operation, as well as corporate management, which comprises of economic, social and cultural values. Economic value creation means performance accretion, which will bring long-term 
sustainable value addition in corporate capital and assets. To 
promote social value is to assume the role of a corporate citizen and be committed to safe production, environment protection and social responsibilities to promote green, low-carbon, healthy and sustainable growth. To enrich cultural value is to promote the honorable legacy from China oil and petrochemical industry, includ-ing full commitment and dedication, together with a positive working style of “Stringent, Meticulous and Solid”. Value in economic, social and cultural aspects will be supportive to each other and collectively promote the progress of both the Company and the society.
Responsibility Creates Value
Responsibility
 Creates ValueSinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Responsibility Creates Value
Creating Economic Value
Promoting  
Social ValueEnriching 
Cultural ValueCreating Economic Value 
In 2000 and 2001, Sinopec Corp. was listed in Hong Kong, New York, London and Shanghai, 
starting the Company’s fast growth. The Company endeavours to promote the preservation and increase of values by enhancing quality and eﬃciency to realise performance accretion, to serve the social development and the improvement of people’s living standards by providing the society with energy and chemical products. The Company’s endeavours support the stable operation of the society and the industrial development. 
Honors 2015
Sinopec Group with Sinopec Corp. as its core assets, advanced to No.2 in Fortune 500 Companies
No. 1 in China Top 500 Enterprises for 11 consecutive years
Best Listed Company Golden Bauhinia Award
No. 17 in Global Top 50 Companies in terms of Investor Relations by IR Magazine
China’s Top Ten Global Competitive Brands and Most Sustainable Competitive Brand by Interna-tional Data Group (IDG) for 6 consecutive years
5 6Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Creating Economic Value
Revenue (RMB billion)2000 2005 2010 2015323.0799.11,913.22,018.9
Total assets (RMB billion)340.9520.6985.41,443.1
2000 2005 2010 2015
During the 12th Five-year Plan period
Taxes and fees paid (RMB)
1,493.4 billion 2.32 %Of the country’s total cumulative revenues
Net proﬁt (RMB billion)Dividends declared to shareholders (RMB billion) (accretive)
Note: From the Company’s ﬁnancial report prepared according to China Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises(ASBE).16.270.7
32.2
2000 2005 2010 201539.6
6.7121.6244.2
2000 2005 2010 201550.1While the business keeps growing and proﬁt accret-
ing, Sinopec Corp. sticks to safety production, energy saving and environment protection, takes care of employees, proactively participates in public welfare and philanthropic activities, creates social values, and realises the harmony between enterprise, employees, environment and society, 
hence creating a friendly environment for human 
life and promoting the construction of ecological civilisation. The Company has achieved 100% collec -
tive contract and social insurance coverage, and the employee health examination coverage is gradually increasing. The Company sticks to green operations by providing clean energy to the society and contin -
uously improving the quality of reﬁned oil products with the sulfur content in gasoline reduced from nearly 1000 ppm in 2000 to present 10 ppm. During the 12th Five-Year Plan period, the annually average growth of Gross Industrial Output Value of the 
Company  was 4.29%, but the total energy consump -
tion only increased by 2.17% annually on average even with the quality upgrading of reﬁned oil products, the more stringent environmental standards and the operation of new plants. Compared with 2010, the Company’s energy intensi -
ty dropped by 8.3%, and industrial water consump -
tion dropped by 6.1%. The emission decline of four 
major pollutants, including chemical oxygen demand (COD), SO2, ammoniac nitrogen and nitrogen oxides was better than the state require -
ments. Meanwhile, the Company has been actively engaged in philanthropic activities, helping to build a harmonious society. Since its IPO, the Company has made donations of RMB2.32 billion to the society and helped cure 34,798 patients in the Lifeline Express Programme accumulatively.
 Promoting Social Value
Honors in 2015
Sinopec’s Energy Conservation Plan was awarded Top 10 Green Actions of Chinese Enterprises 
granted by UNGC Network China
Sinopec’s Clean Water and Blue Sky Campaign was awarded Enterprise with Best Environmental Responsibility at the 2015 China Environmental Protection Summit Forum
China Model of Low-Carbon Development 2015 by China News Service and China Newsweek for 5 consecutive years
Sinopec Lifeline Express was granted Special Contribution Award by Lifeline Express Council for 
11 consecutive years, and won Excellent Volunteer Service Project by an SOE by the SASAC
Sinopec’s Warm Station with Love Programme won Gold Award of Corporate Responsibility of Global Brand and Reputation Outstanding Achievement Award
China Children Philanthropic Award- Spring Blossom Programme by the All China Women’s Federation and the China Children and Teenagers Foundation
Enterprise with Best Overseas Image at the 3rd Chinese Enterprise Overseas Image Summit 
Forum
7 8Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Promoting Social Value
Rate of increase of
the total energy consumption
4.29 % 2.17 % 2.32 billionDuring the 12th Five-year Plan period Since IPO
The annually average growth of Gross Industrial Output Value of the Company  Accumulated  donations ( RMB )
2000 2005 2010 201592.696.197.698.9
Employee health check-up coverage (%)During the 12th Five-Year  Plan period
Reduction in 
SO2 EmissionReduction in 
COD Emission
12%
27.3%Reduction in
Ammoniac nitrogen Emission
10%
12.9%
Reduction in Nitrogen 
oxides Emission 
10%
15.1%The state 
requirementThe state requirementThe company’sperformanceThe company’sperformanceThe state requirementThe company’sperformanceThe state requirementThe company’sperformance
12%
12.7%
34,798 Number of patients cured under the Lifeline Express ProgrammeEnriching Cultural Value
Sinopec Corp. creates the enterprise’s culture originating in the honorable legacy from 
Chinese oil and petrochemical industry to guide our employees to pursue excellence and help the Company more cohesive and consolidated which is the basis of an enterprise. Meanwhile, through cultural communication and education, serving for community development and upgrading the standards of local medical and health care, we promote the cultural development of the places where we do business, contributing to social progress. Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Enriching Cultural Value
10The outstanding tradition of the petroleum and petrochemical industry is our cultural gene and our 
hereditary treasure. This tradition was, is and will be our cultural and spiritual wealth empowering our sustainable development. We must pass on and well utilise this hereditary treasure.
--Wang Yupu, Chairman of Sinopec “
”Sinopec chose “fueling a better life” as the enterprise mission, “building people-oriented, world ﬁrst-class energy and chemical company” as the vision, and “people, responsibility, integrity, precision, innovation and shared values” as the core value.Sinopec changed the enterprise principle to be “developing the enterprise, contributing to 
the country, rewarding shareholders, returning to the society, beneﬁting employees”, aiming to fulﬁll social responsibilities in the process of development. Sinopec established the enterprise principle of “maximising company proﬁt and shareholder 
return”, aiming to reward investors in the process of development.Sinopec consolidated and restructured quality assets for IPO. We established a modern 
enterprise system and set up the enterprise’s principle of “optimising resources allocation and enhancing the company’s market competitiveness domestic and abroad” to drive the enterprise to change its operating mechanism and optimise its governance structure aiming to improve the competitiveness globally.
Sinopec upheld the outstanding legacy from Chinese oil and petrochemical industry, including 
full commitment and dedication, together with a positive working style of “Stringent, Meticu -
lous and Solid”. We shifted the culture and brand construction from communication-oriented to management-oriented and labelled the principle of “technological innovation driven” in brand positioning. Meanwhile, we upheld the philosophy of “Building the enterprise as employees’ family” to advocate the common expectations and build a more cohesive enterprise.
2014
2015Since IPO
Accumulated contributions to cultural education, community development and medical 
service (RMB )
49.44 billion
2000
2002
2009
911 12Sinopec Corp. bears in mind the responsibilities of serving 
the people and the society whole-heartedly. While striving for innovative development and coordinated develop-
ment, we join hands with various stakeholders in seeking 
opportunities for green, shared and open development. And together we contribute to constructing a beautiful China, safeguarding global ecological safety, building a harmonious society, and making a better future!
Responsibility Leads the Future
Responsibility 
Leads the FutureInnovative
 Development 
Coordinated 
Development
Green
 Development Shared 
Development Open
 Development Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Responsibility Leads the Future
Strengthen anti-corruption and risk management
Innovative Development 
14 13Sinopec Corp. set up the Social Responsibility 
Management Committee of the Board of Directors in 2012, responsible for corporate social responsibility management strategies and plans, and the annual social responsibility planning, and for making recommendations to the Board. In May 2015, the Company’s shareholders’ meeting 
elected the 6th Session of the Board of Directors, In 2015, Sinopec Corp. strictly complied with the 
state’s anti-corruption requirements and formulated related policies which playing a positive role in building a transparent and clean Sinopec. We carried out anti-corruption education and publicity to 
  Practice eﬃciency supervision and business 
transparencyIn 2015, Sinopec Corp. continued to implement eﬃciency supervision on 1,438 projects including safety risk management and Clean Water and Blue Sky Campaign. We assigned inspectors to the Zhongtian Hechuang Coal Chemicals project, and enhanced supervision over key projects including LNG projects in Guangxi and Tianjin and the Fuling shale gas ﬁeld 5 billion cubic meter surface engineering and construction project.
We furthered our eﬀorts in business transparency in 
2015 by covering all the units with our business transparency information system, while conducting online inspection of irregular behaviors through the 
system. We also organised business transparency survey and training for improvement.In 2015, Sinopec Corp. continued to strengthen risk 
management. We integrated internal control with ERP to install internal control requirements in the ERP 
system for automatic online control and execution 
improvement. Besides, we carried out full risk 
assessment, and enhanced dynamic monitoring and 
management of major and important risks to ensure they are under control. In 2015, the company did not ﬁnd any material or main defects. The internal control system operated soundly and eﬀectively.(I) Innovative Development Leads to an Excellent  Future
Sinopec Corp. keeps on promoting management innovation to improve corporate gover-
nance, prevent risks and facilitate scientiﬁc decision-making. Meanwhile we reinforce techno -
logical innovation, enhance our systems and mechanisms, drive our technological innovation to conform to the Initiative of Mass Entrepreneurship and Innovation, and facilitate industriali-sation and information technology development.Innovation is the primary driving force for development
Chairman Wang Yupu visited an innovative Studio of a subsidiary
Case:  Improve management by addressing 
problems found
In April 2015, the Company’s online inspection 
found that the contract unit price of solenoid valves purchased by a subsidiary was much higher than that of other subsidiaries. Through investiga -
tion it was found that the supplier inﬂated the price and internal veriﬁcation was not done properly. Based on the Company’s audit opinions, the subsidiary took disciplinary action against relevant people and imposed economic penalty; it removed the supplier from Sinopec’s supplier list, and enhanced the supervision and management in the receiving, delivery from warehouse and use of purchased materials, implementing trace management in the entire process of declaration, delivery from warehouse, inspection, application and use.Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
Board of Directors
ManagementStrategic 
Committee
Human 
Resources 
DepartmentSafety 
Supervision 
DepartmentEnergy Management & 
Environment Protection 
DepartmentSupervision 
DepartmentCommunity 
Management 
DepartmentCorporate Culture 
DepartmentLabour 
UnionOther 
DepartmentsAudit 
CommitteeSocial Responsibility 
Management CommitteeRemuneration & 
Performance Evaluation 
CommitteeBoard of Supervisors 
Overall human 
resources planning
Talent development
Employee training
Compensation 
and beneﬁts......Safe production Employee occupational health
Health protectionSafety training
......Green and low-carbon development
Energy conservation and emission 
reduction
Environment protection
...... Anti-corruption Business transparency Employee grievance...... Community construction......Employee Assistance Programme (EAP)
...... 
Employee rights and interests protection
Home Culture building
......Supervise duty performance of the Board of Directors and senior executivesBe strict in cultivating one’s moral character
Be strict in preventing abuse of power Three Stricts and Three Solids
Be strict in self-discipliningBe solid in planning matters
Be solid in starting undertakings 
Be solid in conducting oneself
and re-appointed the members of the Social 
Responsibility Management Committee. The committee consists of Chairman Wang Yupu, director and President Li Chunguang, and independent director Tang Min. The committee adheres to the green and low-carbon develop -
ment strategy and advance Sinopec’s sustainable 
development.       Attach importance to the top-level design of social responsibility1. Promote management innovationimprove employees’ sense of discipline and regulate 
their behaviors. We also conducted a special training in “Three Stricts and Three Solids”, laying a solid founda-tion for creating ethical and healthy enterprise manage-ment ambient.
Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Innovative Development 
16 152015
5,246
Number of patents 
applied 
Number of patents 
granted Up by 
5.6%
3,769
Case:  Sinopec Research Institute of Petroleum Processing: Cradle of Science and T echnology Innovation2.Strengthen technological innovation
   Technological innovation platform and achievement
Sinopec Corp. considers technological innovation the 
core of the company’s development. We have eight subordinate research institutes with a strong scientiﬁc research and development team covering complete industries, hence forming four technology platforms of oil and gas exploration and production, petroleum reﬁning, petrochemicals and strategic emerging 
businesses.
In 2015, in response to the state’s call for Mass Entrepre-neurship and Innovation, we further strengthened the technological innovation system and mechanism RIPP boasts 274 PhD students and 298 Master students. 
There are 4 academicians of Chinese Academy of 
Sciences and Chinese Academy of Engineering, 127 
senior engineers with professorship and 508 senior 
technologists. RIPP has a post-graduate  training 
center, and conducts post-doctoral research 
At the same time, the Company’s own technological 
platform has trained a large number of technical talents and skill masters, who in turn facilitate the technological development of Sinopec with their innovation results. In 2015, we achieved rich accom -
plishments in patents, and major technological results. We applied for 5,246 patents, up by 5.6% year on year, and we were granted 3,769 patents, up by 25% year on year.RIPP has developed multiple major technologies that are critical to the green development of China’s 
reﬁning industry:
•High eﬃcient and environmentally 
aromatics package technology provides important guarantee for textile material supply•New super-stable molecular sieve catalyst can improve oil output by over 6%•Bio-jet fuel has been successfully adopted in passenger ﬂights
Research Institute of Petroleum Processing (RIPP), 
established in 1956, is the location of National Key Laboratory of Catalyst Materials and Reaction Engineering of Petroleum and Chemical Industry, National Research Center for Petroleum Reﬁning 
Graduates from Sinopec Research Institute of Petroleum Processing are ready to embark on their new journeyUp by 
25%
Investment in scientiﬁc research 
and development (RMB billion)6.34
5.625.65
2013 2014 2015
Number of technical staﬀ10,279
9,99710,964
2013 2014 2015
4,442
2,3883,0113,7694,9685,246
2013 2014 2015
Number of patents applied
Number of patents grantedTechnology, National Engineering Research Center for 
Petroleum Reﬁning Technology and Catalyst, Sinopec 
Key Laboratory of Bio-Liquid Fuel, Sinopec Key Labora -
tory of Heavy (Inferior) Crudes and Unconventional Oil and Gas Reﬁning Technology.programme, is authorised by the state to confer 
PhD degrees in chemical technology and applied 
chemistry as well as Master’s degrees in chemical 
technology, and industrial catalysis etc., cultivating qualiﬁed personnel for Chinese petrochemical industry.construction, released Sinopec Implementation Plan for Carrying out the Innovation-driven Development Strate-gy, and provided a system guarantee for innovative development. Sticking to the principle of market-orienta -
tion, enterprises playing the leading role, and combined eﬀorts of enterprises and research institutes, we compiled Sinopec Technological Advancement Plan 
during the 13th Five-Year Plan Period, placing an empha -
sis on major projects’ R&D and improving technological 
innovation capabilities.Innovative Development 
18 17Naming a labor model studio with my name means honor and recognition, but it is more 
responsibility and challenge to me. It inspires me to make more efforts to study professional knowledge, and carry out technical innovations based on the company ’s  production. I 
will progress from the learning, make breakthroughs in practice, and continuously 
improve my problem-solving ability. Meanwhile, I will carry forward the mentoring 
tradition to grow and improve together with my colleagues so as to make more contri -
butions to the company ’s development.
--Tian Ming“
”
Models like Tian Ming are not only the spiritual backbone of Sinopec but also 
outstanding representatives of all the SOEs. Their deeds and spirit will always encourage us to march forward.
--Lu Weidong, Director of SASAC Bureau of Publicity“
”Case:  The “soil” of Mass Entrepreneurship and Innovation cultivates 
technical talents, contributing to the development of Sinopec
Sinopec Corp. creates an environment 
of Mass Entrepreneurship and Innova-tion, “nurtures” talents, and motivates employees to contribute their endless wisdom and strength. Skill masters, labor models and techni-cal talents keep emerging every year 
in Sinopec.
Tian Ming, who has worked in Jiangsu 
Oil Field for 30 years, has grown from an ordinary worker in the downhole operation department to a national technical expert and Sinopec skill master. He has completed 92 techni-cal innovations, 44 of which won awards. He also won a second-class award of the State Scientiﬁc and Technological Progress Award, gener-ating economic beneﬁts of over RMB60 million for the company. Case: Sinopec won National Special Prize for Progress in Science and Technology for developing high 
eﬃcient and environmentally friendly Aromatics Package Technology
The development of Aromatics Package 
Technology is the dream for generations of Sinopec people, which is also the fruit of the joint eﬀorts of all the people who have participated in the project. On Jan. 8, 2016, Sinopec was awarded National Special Prize for Progress in Science and Technology in 
2015 for developing high eﬃcient and 
environmentally friendly Aromatics Package Technology. This indicates that China has become the 
world’s third country owning this technolo-gy.Aromatics are the pillar of chemical industry. They are extensively applied in three major synthetic materials and other ﬁelds as medicine, national defense, pesticides and construction materials, 
etc. Para-xylene is one of the highest 
consumption aromatics, which is closely related to our daily lives. 
Tian Ming, Sinopec skill master
Zhou Gang, winner of the National May 1st 
Labor Medal, senior technician of Fibre Bottle Flake Production Center of Yizheng 
Chemical Company
Zhang Hengzhen, national technical 
expert, senior operator of the cracking workshop of Sinopec Maoming Company
Dai Xusheng, chief skill master of Shengli Oil FieldFive key innovations of the Aromatics Package Technology
Development of novel green technology for feedstock puriﬁcation
Pioneer in development of new molecular sieve for high eﬃciency conversion and separation of aromatics
Innovation of integrated control system for the smart control
Pioneer in development of new process for energy deep integration in the aromatics complex
Achieving “China Invention” of key equipments through innovative design and manufacturing process
Social beneﬁts from the application of Aromatics Package Technology
· Signiﬁcantly reduce energy and materials consumption, realise high eﬃciency and environmental protection. The energy 
intensity using this technology is 28% lower than that of other domestic units started up at the same period, while the environ -
mental monitoring indexes are more superior to the latest national standards.
·  Beneﬁt the development of chemical and manufacturing industry. Through technology innovation, 95% of the equipments of 
the project are designed and manufactured domestically. Moreover, the technology can promote the manufacture of 
adsorbents, catalysts and chemical facilities and create new job opportunities.
· Ensure the supply of textile raw materials, the integrity of industrial chain and the security of economic structure. Chemical 
ﬁbers from para-xylene in the aromatics complex can replace the cotton from 37.89 million acres of farmland annually.
National Special Prize for Progress 
in Science and Technology for Sinopec’s developing and applying 
high eﬃcient and environmentally 
friendly Aromatics Package 
TechnologySinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Innovative Development 
Dai Xusheng is the chief skill master of 
Shengli Oil Field. In his work life of 40 years, he has grown from an ordinary worker with junior high school educa -
tion to a skill master, completing close to 90 technical innovations, one of which won a second-class award of the 
State Scientiﬁc and Technological 
Progress Award, and creating econom -
ic beneﬁts of about RMB100 million.
Since 2010, winners of the company’s 
Technical Innovation Award like Kong Dejin, Tang Jianming, Lin Min, Song Guoqi, Dai Wei, Zeng Daqian, Zhang Shijun and Wang Zenglin have become the backbone of Sinopec’s technical team, providing endless power for Sinopec’s improvement of technologi -
cal innovation capabilities.20 19Sinopec Jiujiang Petrochemical Company has attained an interconnected production environment, intelligent 
operations, synergised production management, and agile information technology infrastructure. Consequently, an intelligent chemical plant integrating green operation, high efficiency, safety and sustainable development has 
taken shape.
  
--Miao Wei, Minister of Industry and Information Technology“
”Case:  Sinopec’s four pilot enterprises achieved good results in building smart 
plants
“Made in China 2025” is a plan to accelerate the 
integration of the new generation information and communication technology and the manufacturing industry. It develops nine strategic tasks and priorities relating to improving the innovation    Promote the IT-based industrialisation
Sinopec Corp. actively responds to the state’s Made in China 2025 strategy and Internet Plus Action Plan. Following the two threads of “accelerating enterprise structural adjustment and achieving transformation development while centering on quality and eﬃciency improvement of the traditional industry; and promoting the construction of new petrochemical business forms 
while focusing on customers”, we strive to build the 
uniform, integrated and shared information platform system to facilitate the IT-based industrialisation of the Company. In this way, we boost innovation in the production mode, management style and service model.In 2015, 14 enterprises under the Company were selected as 
“demonstrative enterprise for innovative integration of industri-alisation and information technology in Chinese petrochemical industry”, and 25 enterprises were chosen to be among the standard implementation pilot units for the “management system for the integration of industrialisation and information technology” under the Ministry of Industry and Information 
Technology, eight of which have passed the implementation 
certiﬁcation.
In 2015, Sinopec’s four pilots subsidiaries including Jiujiang Petrochemical CompanyđZhenhai Reﬁning & 
Chemical Company, Maoming Petrochemical Company and Yanshan Petrochemical Company achieved good results in building intelligent plants.
•Automation, visualisation and digitalisation in plant operating management have signiﬁcantly 
improved. Utilisation rate of the advanced control system is over 90%, the rate of automatic production data collection is over 95%, the operation pass rate reaches 100%, and productivity has increased by more 
than 10%.
•Production optimisation has switched from partial optimisation to integrated optimisation and online 
optimisation; visualisation and online optimisation have been achieved for energy management; and 100% real-time monitoring, analysis and early warning for key environmental discharge points is now in 
place.
•The pilot construction of intelligent plants has promoted the change in enterprise production mode 
and control model. It has also improved safety, environmental protection, cost reduction, eﬃciency, and green and low-carbon level, and labor eﬃciency and production results. In addition, Sinopec Jiujiang 
Petrochemical Company was selected as the state’s “Intelligent Manufacturing Pilot Demonstrative 
Project”, the only one in the country’s petrochemical industry.Innovative Development Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Innovative Development 
capabilities of China’s manufacturing industry, 
promoting the integration of information technology and industrialisation, and enhancing basic industrial capacity, and deﬁnes ﬁve major projects including intelligent manufacturing and green manufacturing.
Mobile connection Big data Cloud computing Internet of Things Social media Build a business ecosystem Promote intelligent 
manufacturing
Based on advanced 
technologies 
Intelligent 
manufacturing Intelligent plant 
Intelligent oil 
field 
Digitalised  
engineering 
Intelligent 
 service station Intelligent pipe 
network 
Customer  management 
system 
Chemicals E-
commerce 
E-commer ce 
system 
Payment and 
finance systemSupply chain & 
logistics
Enterprise business  
strategy
 Personnel 
managementFinancial 
managementMaterial 
managementOverall 
coordinationEasy Joy 
I  Fuel  
Supported by the operating 
management platform 22 21Coordinated Development
 (II) Coordinated Development Leads to a Sustainable Future
Sinopec Corp. focuses on optimising resources among business segments to promote the coordinated 
development in the upstream, midstream and downstream of the industrial chain.  Furthermore, we drive the coordinated development of traditional and emerging businesses, enhancing the company’s overall 
capabilities and competitiveness.Coordination is the inherent requirement of sustainable development
Reﬁning Marketing and Distribution Technology Research and Development International Trade ChemicalsIn respect of reﬁning capacity, it ranks ﬁrst in China and second globally
At the end of 2015, the primary distillation capacity of crude oil was 292 million 
tonnes annually
Processed 236 million tonnes of crude oil in 2015
Equipped with a well-developed reﬁned 
oil products sales network
At the end of 2015, there were 30,560 
service stations with Sinopec brandAbility to build reﬁning facilities at the ten-million tonnage level with in-house technology
Ability to build ethylene facilities at the million tonnage level with in-house technology
A number of strategic and applicable R&D achievements have been made in 
the industrial chain covering upstream, midstream and downstream
13 wharfs of over 200,000 DWT, with 
total discharging capacity of 280 million tonnes; imported 197 million tonnes of crude oil in 2015
Much progress has been made in the overseas business
Exploration and ProductionLarge oil and gas supplier in China
The national shale gas demonstration zone – Sinopec Fuling 
shale gas ﬁeld successfully completed building an annual production capacity of 5 billion cubic meters in its ﬁrst phaseAt the end of 2015, proved reserves of petroleum and natural 
gas were 2,244 million barrels and 214.4 billion cubic meters respectively
In respect of ethylene production capacity, it ranks ﬁrst in 
China and fourth globally 
Petrochemical products supply people with basic necessi-
ties of daily lifeProduced 11.12 million tonnes of ethylene in 2015Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
 Innovative Development The Company’s integrated business 
structure helps generate synergies among our business segments, hence enabling the 
Company to continuously tap potentials in 
attaining an eﬃcient and comprehensive utilisation of the resources, and endowed the Company strong resistance against risks 
and remarkable capabilities in delivering 
stable proﬁtability.
The Company enjoys a favorable location 
which is close to the consumer markets. Along with the steady growth in the Chinese economy, sales volume of both oil products and chemical products by the Company has 
been increasing steadily over the years; 
through continuous and specialised marketing eﬀorts,
 its capability in international operations 
and market expansion has been further enhanced.The Company owns a team of professionals and expertise engaged in the production of oil & gas, operation of reﬁneries and chemi-
cal plants, as well as marketing activities. 
The Company applies outstanding ﬁne management measures with its remarkable capabilities in management of operations.
The Company has formulated a well-estab-
lished technology system and mechanism, and four technology platforms have taking shape, which include exploration and development of oil & gas, petroleum reﬁning, petrochemicals and strategic emerging businesses. The Company’s overall technologies have reached the world advanced levels and some of them taking the lead globally.
Coordinated Development
24 231.Coordinated development in the entire industrial chain
The business of Sinopec Corp. covers the entire petroleum and chemical industrial chain, from oil and natural 
gas exploration and production, reﬁning to petrochemicals and sales, which is supported by our strong research and development capability and international trade.
24.83 billion
Sales volume of non-fuel 
business(RMB)
Up by
45%The emerging business : the Company actively adjusts business management and 
development model, fully utilises the traditional advantages in the area of reﬁned oil 
product sales, and develops non-fuel business through business model innovation. Based on the Easy Joy stores across the country, we explore businesses of diﬀerent areas and drive physical products and industries, including potable water, environ-mental products, advertisements and expressway service areas, achieving rapid development, which also helps the Company transform from an oil product supplier 
to a comprehensive service provider and provide convenient and one-stop shop 
service for the customers. In 2015, the revenue from our non-fuel business reached RMB24.83 billion, up by 45% year on year.·
  In the marketing and distribution segment, the Company actively developed the market, optimised the marketing 
network and ﬂexibly adjusted marketing strategy to increase retail volume and single station throughput. We 
accelerated the transformation from an oil products supplier to a comprehensive service provider by complimenting 
the rapid development of non-fuel business with fuel business.
·  In the exploration and production segment, 
facing the impact of low crude oil price, the Compa -
ny eﬀectively reduced costs and expenditures, set up ﬂexible investment decision making mechanism and kept exploration pace in domestic and the Fuling shale gas project attained achievement both in reserves and production.
·  
In the reﬁning segment, the Company adjusted 
the product slate to increase the yield of gasoline 
and jet fuel, optimised resources allocation and controlled the unit cost. Meanwhile, we took Case:  Easy Joy makes life more convenient
At the end of 2015, Sinopec Corp. had set up 25,000 Easy Joy convenience stores in service stations across China. Closely centering on the needs of “people and 
vehicles”, the Company endeavored to build the stations into “comprehensive service stations” and “life stations for vehicles” by integrating businesses like fuel charging, gas charging, convenience store, automo
tive service and 
fast food, as well as added-val ue service like credit 
purchase or bill payment for mobile phones. The aim is to provide convenient and one-stop-shop service. 
In 2015, the Company set up an Easy Joy Life Experience Hall, carrying over 1,500 kinds of commodities involving more than 400 brands. Recreational activities including living tips and consumer knowledge lectures are organ
ised 
from time to time in the hall and pre-sale of new products and promotions are conducted through the The staﬀ of Easy Joy convenience store served the consumer
Case: Building online and oﬄine ecosystem
Sinopec Guangdong Marketing Company promoted the integration of internet and business. It invited experts in the leading internet enterprises to train the employees and established WeChat platform of 3.7 million vehicle owners. Meanwhile, the retail department promoted online customer service and the non-fuel department set up Easy Joy WeChat shop and employees made video or PPT through WeChat to promote products and service.
International TradeSinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
advantages of our dedicated marketing network which helped promote the products proﬁtability. The perfor-mance of the reﬁning segment recorded remarkable increase in 2015.·
  In the chemical segment, the Company further 
optimised feedstock and product mix to achieve better cost eﬃciency and actively produced marketable high value-added products. Meanwhile, we took advantages of our marketing network and implemented diﬀerenti-ated marketing strategy. The chemical segment achieved better performance in 2015.WeChat account. The experience that integrates 
shopping, leisure and O2O new consumption mode is 
our new experiment based on business model of traditional convenience stores, aiming to provide more 
convenient, fast and quality consumption experience for consumers.2.Coordinated development of traditional and emerging business
The traditional business: In 2015, in an environment of weak oil prices which severely impacting on the compa -
ny’s oil and gas exploration and development segment, the Company optimised and adjusted industrial structure, improved the proﬁtability of the reﬁning and chemical businessesđand achieved good operation results, which demonstrates our integration advantages.1. Supply clean energy
   Shale gas development and utilisation
In 2015, remarkable progress was made in the develop -
ment of shale gas. The national shale gas demonstra-
tion zone – Sinopec Fuling shale gas oil successfully completed the ﬁrst phase of 5 billion cubic meters per year capacity construction. This is of great signiﬁcance to our country’s energy structural adjustment, the acceleration of energy conservation, and the preven -
tion and control of air pollution.
Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development  Green Development
26 25The successful completion of the first phase of development indicates that our country has entered a new journey of energy 
revolution, meaning that our country ’s natural gas supply structure will change from now on. This is of great significance to 
alleviating our country ’s constraints in natural gas supply, reducing our external dependence, improving our guarantee capabili -
ties, upgrading people ’s livelihoods, facilitating energy conservation and emission reduction, and preventing and controlling air 
pollution.
                                                                                                   -- Weng Jieming, Executive Vice Mayor of Chongqing “
”
(III) Green Development Leads to a Beautiful Future
Sinopec Corp. is endeavouring to avoid, minimise and mitigate environmental impacts wherever and 
whenever we do business. we adhere to our green and low-carbon development strategy, and fulﬁll our environmental responsibility by strengthening environmental management, providing clean energy, conserving energy and reducing emission, and responding to climate change. We strive to build an energy-saving and environmentally friendly enterprise, contributing to the harmonious development between human and nature.
Sinopec Corp. strictly complies with state laws like Law 
on Environmental Protection, Law on Water Pollution 
Prevention and Law on the Prevention and Control of Environmental Pollution by Solid Wastes, as well as company policies and rules such as Sinopec’s Rules on the Prevention and Control of Waste Water Pollution Green is the prerequisite for sustainable development 
Case:  About China’s ﬁrst large shale 
gas ﬁeld
Shale gas is clean energy
Shale gas is an unconventional natural gas in the 
form of adsorption or dissociation existing in the clay shale and its interlayers. It is a clean and eﬃcient energy resource able to drastically improve the energy consumption structure. The completion of ﬁrst phase development of Fuling shale gas can reduce 6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emission 
per year, equivalent to planting almost 55 million 
trees, taking up to 4 million economy cars oﬀ the road for one year. Meanwhile, it can reduce the emission of 150,000 tonnes of sulfur dioxide and 50,000 tonnes of nitrogen oxides.The “growth story” of Chongqing Fuling shale gas ﬁeld
The ﬁrst well 
National level
On December 28, 2012, the ﬁrst shale gas well 
Jiaoye 1HF drilled high yield shale gas, starting a new era of China’s shale gas development.
In November 2013, Sinopec Corp. started the 
development of the demonstration zone. By the end of that year, 21 test wells had been completed, building an annual shale gas capacity of 600 million cubic meters. 
In 2015, Sinopec Fuling Shale Gas Field produced accumulatively 2.124 billion cubic meters of shale gas, with a daily production capacity reaching 12 million cubic meters. Sales totaled 
2.036 billion cubic meters, supplying to Central China and Eastern China.In 2013, the National Energy Administration oﬃcial -
ly approved Fuling Shale Gas Field to be a national 
shale gas development demonstration zone. 
In March 2014, Sinopec Corp. announced that 
major breakthroughs were made in the exploration 
of shale gas, and Chongqing Fuling Shale Gas Field started commercial development ahead of schedule.
On December 29, 2015, Sinopec Corp. announced in Chongqing that 5 billion cubic meters per year of capacity construction of Fuling Shale Gas Field was completed, indicating the oﬃcial operation of 
China’s ﬁrst large shale gas ﬁeld.
Construction of the demonstration zone
Supplied to Central China and Eastern China
Chongqing has become the main place for commercial shale gas development, and 
Fuling has become the largest shale gas ﬁeld in the world outside North America
As evaluated by the Ministry of Land and Resources, the 
accumulative reserves of Fuling Shale Gas Field total 380.6 billion cubic meters, covering an area of 383.54 square kilometers.Up to now, Fuling Shale Gas Field has produced 3.888 billion cubic meters of shale gas, with the highest daily capacity reaching 16.2 million cubic meters, able to meet the annual demand of 30 million households.
In 2015, the output of Fuling Shale Gas Field was estimated to account for over 70% of the country’s total shale gas 
output.Sinopec Corp. is starting up the second phase of capacity 
construction with annual capacity of 5 billion cubic meters, and will build Chongqing Fuling into a large gas ﬁeld with capacity 10 billion cubic meters by 2017.
The group drilling of Sinopec shale gas ﬁeld factory in FulingCommercial development
First in operation
and Sinopec Rules on Environmental Protection. We 
drive environmental protection through clean energy 
production, energy conservation and emission reduc-tion, building a comprehensive integrated manage -
ment system for emission and carbon reduction.   Commercial application of bio-jet fuel
In 2015, bio-jet fuel independently developed by 
Sinopec Corp. was successfully deployed in its ﬁrst commercial passenger ﬂight, making China one of the few countries in the world that own self-devel-oped production technology of bio-jet fuel which successfully achieved commercialisation.   
Quality upgrading of reﬁned oil products
Sinopec Corp. persistently upgrades the quality of reﬁned oil products and actively supplies clean energy to the society. The sulfur content in gasoline was reduced from nearly 1,000ppm in year 2000 to current 10ppm. Eleven municipalities and provinces in Eastern China such as Beijing, Shanghai, Jiangsu, Guangdong and Zhejiang have adopted the gasoline standard of GBþ, equivalent to European þ.Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
Today ’s flight went very well. There was no difference in the flying experience. I am happy that I had 
chance to fly this flight to witness the historic moment in China ’s civil aviation history and the environ -
mental protection cause.                                                                                                            ------ Pu Ming, Captain“
” Green Development
28 27Case:  Bio-jet fuel independently developed by 
Sinopec Corp. was successfully deployed for the ﬁrst time in commercial passenger ﬂight
In March 2015, Flight HU7604 of Hainan Airline ﬁlled 
with Sinopec No.1 bio-jet fuel took oﬀ at 8:20 from Shanghai Hongqiao Airport with 156 passengers and 8 crew members on board. After a ﬂight of two and a half hours, it landed in Beijing Capital Airport steadily.
National Standards
Sulfur Content Our footprints in quality upgrading of oil products
Sinopec Oil Product Upgrading, Sulfur Content Keeps Dropping (ppm)
GB * (unleaded)               GB û         GB *** GBý           GB þ
             ≤800                ≤500           ≤150   ≤50              ≤10   
bio-jet fuel is produced with renewable resources as raw 
materials, mainly made from coconut oil, palm oil, leprosy seed oil, ﬂaxseed oil, algae oil and waste cooking oil. 
Compared with traditional petroleum-based jet fuel, 
carbon emission in the entire lifecycle can be reduced by more than 35%, turning waste cooking oil into a beneﬁt.Tips：
Sinopec started the development of bio-jet fuel, 
and successfully developed the production technology of bio-jet fuel with independent intellectual property rights
Sinopec oﬃcially submitted to Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) the applica -
tion for airworthiness certiﬁcation for Sinopec’s No.1 bio-jet fuel Sinopec No.1 bio-jet fuel successfully completed its technical test ﬂight by Eastern Airline at Shanghai Hongqiao AirportSinopec bio-jet fuel was success -
fully deployed for the ﬁrst time in commercial passenger ﬂight
Sinopec was granted the ﬁrst bio-jet fuel airworthiness license in China by CAACChronicle of Sinopec’ s development and application of bio-jet fuel
2009 2011
 2013
 2014
 2015
2016
2015
2014
2012
2008
1997 farewell to leaded gasoline gasoline quality met GB ûstandardssupplied qualiﬁed gasoline and diesel which met GB ý 
standards to Beijingautomobile gasoline all met GB *** standards, of which 
those supplied in municipalities and provinces such as 
Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Jiangsu gradually 
met GBý standardssupplied qualiﬁed gasoline and diesel which met GB
þstandards to Beijinggasoline and automobile diesel produced by some enter-
prises met the GB þ standards; gasoline and automobile 
diesel supplied to 11 provinces and municipalities in East-
ern China all met the GB þ standardscontinue to upgrade oil product quality, meet the 
state’ s requirements of quality upgrading in regard to an overall supply of automobile gasoline and diesel that 
meets the GB
þstandards from January 1, 2017
achieved the quality upgrading of automobile diesel to 
GBý; met the demand of GB þ automobile gasoline 
and diesel in some areas
successfully achieved the quality upgrading of regular 
diesel; accomplished gasoline quality upgrading to GB ý; 
met the demand of GB þ gasoline and diesel in some 
areas
200320102013
   Energy conservation and emission reduction
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. actively took measures to conserve energy and improve resource utilization rate.Exploration and Production segment
• Taking measures including optimising development 
programmes, conducting reservoir reconstruction, 
optimising injection formation, using reclaimed water, and building advanced treatment facility for produced water in oil production to improve injection eﬃciency;• 
Enhancing the treatment capacity of drilling sewage 
and fracturing liquid to meet the water injection quality standard, and improving injection rate.   
Clean Water and Blue Sky Campaign
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. continued to advance the Clean Water and Blue Sky Campaign, accelerated project approval and construction, and conducted follow-up audit of projects’ execution and supervi -
sion of key projects. As of the end of 2015, all the projects of the campaign had been approved, of which 512 projects had been completed and put into 
    
Water resources management
Sinopec Corp. spares no eﬀorts in using municipal reclaimed water and desalinated seawater as its industrial water. We place an emphasis on water resource protection, enhance measures to wastewater treatment and recycling in various business segments, and improve the utilisation rate of water resource.     
Contract energy management
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. revised Rules of Sinopec Contract Energy Manage-
ment Projects, further optimised project management procedures. We carried out 47 contract energy management projects and saved energy equivalent to 49,000 tonnes of standard coal. Of which, Sinopec Maoming Branch, Sinopec Guangzhou Branch and Zhanjiang Dongxing Petrochemi-cal Company replaced 2,484 outdated motors by adopting the contract energy management approach.   
The Energy Conservation Plan
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. fully carried forward the Energy Conservation Plan. We reinforced manage-ment team to implement the plan, included the assessment result into annual performance appraisal. We also promoted mature and applicable energy conservation technology by organising expert teams Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
30 29 Green Development
2015 Industrial water 
consumption 
 compared with 2014
compared with 20106.1 %
Reﬁning and Chemical segments
• Taking chance of the wastewater treatment 
plant upgrading, deeply exploring the reclaimed water potential, building water reuse facilities by phases, and constantly improving the operation load of the reuse water facilities to reduce fresh water;• 
Using unconventional water resources such as 
water from the municipal wastewater treatment plant, seawater and brackish water.
Case:  Sinopec Yangzi actively participates in the Clean Water and Blue Sky Campaign
Sinopec Yangzi Petrochemical Company invested RMB1.38 billion in the Clean Water and Blue Sky Campaign. It has implemented 12 environmental improvement projects, including water body protection and reuse, air treatment, leak detection and mainte-
Case:  Can oil sludge be reused?
In 2015, the ﬁrst set of oil base rock cuttings treatment device independently developed by the Company was oﬃcially put into operation in Chongqing Fuling Shale Gas Field. Oil base rock cuttings can now be properly collected without dropping to the ﬂoor, and stored without permeation; furthermore, the treatment process is innocuous and can meet the strict discharge 
nance as well as monitoring and early warning. In 2015, 
the company’s wastewater reuse device with capaci -
ty of 850 tonnes/hour was successfully put into operation and produced qualiﬁed reusable water; its capacity amounted to 7 million tonnes/year.2.Green and low-carbon development
operation. The Company’s ability to meet emission standards was constantly improved. The total emission of four major pollutants, known as COD, sulfur dioxide, ammoniac nitrogen, nitrogen oxide, had all achieved the emission reduction targets which were signed in the responsibility agreement at the beginning of the year.
to oﬀer technical services for our subsidiaries. We 
completed 484 projects during the year with an investment of about RMB1.5 billion, and saved 
energy equivalent to 980,000 tonnes of standard coal.Case:  Sinopec Tianjin introduced municipal reclaimed water and desalinated water as supplement 
of circulating water
Starting from 2010, Sinopec Tianjin Petroleum Compa -
ny has used desalinated seawater as supplement of 
circulating water, and accumulative usage reached 10 million tonnes by 2015, yielding good results in water saving. In particular, the million-tonnage ethylene project of Sinopec Tianjin mainly uses desalinated seawater as its water source, making it the largest 
desalinated seawater user in Tianjin city. In 2015, the company for the ﬁrst time successfully introduced 
the municipal reclaimed water as the waster source for preparing chemical water, using more than 4 million tonnes of municipal reclaimed water. At the end of 2015, the company total output (calculated based on the constant price of 2010) had increased by close to 4 times, while total fresh 
water usage had reduced by 50%.
standard. The cuttings can be recycled for 
construction materials like cement and bricks. This ﬁlls the gap in large-volume innocuous treatment technology for oil base rock cuttings in the development of shale gas. Currently, the device’s treatment capacity is 15,000 cubic meters a year.
  We drove integrated management assessment system for energy and environment, planned the work of energy conservation 
and emission reduction as a whole, and intensiﬁed the measures and assessment of consumption indicators of combustion energy.
 24 enterprises including Maoming  Company and Zhenhai Company drove energy conservation and emission reduction through technological innovation. They introduced 16 energy conservation technologies, and implemented 128 projects, saving energy equivalent to 270,000 tonnes of standard coal per year.
 We formulated Sinopec Energy Conservation Forerunner Action Plan, encouraging enterprises to learn from the “forerunner” and continuously improve energy conservation and emission reduction.
  We strictly regulated the temporary storage and processing of solid wastes especially hazardous wastes, and the proper disposal rate of solid waste approached 100%. We carried out desulfurisation and denitriﬁcation modiﬁcation for coal burner and catalytic cracking devices, enabling subsidiaries to meet the emission standards of waste gas pollutants.
1.0 %
3.Tackle climate change
   Caring for Climate China Summit
Promoting energy conservation and emission reduc-
tion and tackling climate change require the joint eﬀorts and active participation of the entire society. As a leading enterprise of the UNGC, Sinopec Corp. continued to support activities organised by the    Biodiversity protection
Sinopec Corp. attaches great importance to the protection of the surroundings of our plants and take various measures to ensure ecological safety as well as to create a healthy and harmonious ecological homeland.Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
32 31 Green Development
Wildlife  environment protection trainingCase:  Protect animals and plants, maintain ecological balance
Sinopec Mansarovar Energy Colombia Ltd., places an emphasis on protecting animals, plants and the natural ecological environment. The company identiﬁes highly sensitive ecological areas and protection areas, and forbids oil and gas exploration and operation in these areas. They work closely with the local government, and task the company’s dedicated safety and environment profession -
als with special protection of wild animals. The company also held 
wild animal photography competition to call for the local people to 
protect wild animals and the ecological environment, especially the endangered species. In addition, the company conducts special training of animal protection in the local community to increase the awareness and ability of local people in protecting animals.
Case: Improve marine ecosystem
Sinopec Zhanjiang carried out Restocking for Enhancement of Fish Resources Activity to protect the marine 
ecological environment. They planned to release 50 million ﬁsh seedlings every year for the recovery of ﬁsheries population and the protection of biodiversity, improving marine ecosystem and promoting the sustainable development of ﬁshery industry. Support Ecological Civilisation & Beautiful Home Caring for Climate China 
Summit, Contribute to ecological civilisation construction
   Carbon Asset Management
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. published policies including Sinopec Rules for Carbon Asset Management (Trial Implementation) to enhance carbon asset management. We set up a greenhouse gas emission statistics, monitoring and management system, and further improved the function module construction of carbon asset management information system. Moreover, we conducted relevant studies, and determined the study method for the carbon footprint of petrochemical products.
Carbon accounting
Sinopec Corp. further carried out carbon accounting. 
According to ISO14064, we have conducted greenhouse gas accounting in the petrochemical units and service 
stations of our subsidiaries for ﬁve consecutive years, 
which all passed the veriﬁcation by the third-party 
international veriﬁers.
Carbon capture
Our subsidiaries including Zhongyuan Oil Field 
actively conducted carbon dioxide capture, storage and utilisation test studies to increase recoverable reserves and oil recovery eﬃciency. As of the end of 2015, they had injected 2.7 million tonnes of carbon 
dioxide and increased oil production of 235,000 
tonnes. Meanwhile, methane recovery and utilisa-In 2014, the 2nd summit themed on Embracing Children. A collection of case studies of 
Sinopec and other leading enterprises with the title of Build a Beautiful World – 2014 China Practice in Caring for Climate and Ecological Civilisation was released and 
submitted to the UNGC Organisation and the UN Climate Summit. Sinopec Corp. 
bought four children’s paintings on environmental protection in the philanthropic auction. We won the title of Pioneer Enterprise of Caring for Climate & Ecological Civilisation, and announced our implementation of the Energy Conservation Plan.
In 2015, the 3rd summit had a theme of the Power of Action. It released a collection of 
case studies of Sinopec Corp. and other leading enterprises titled Caring for Climate – China in Action, and submitted it to the UN Climate Summit held in Paris. Sinopec Corp. 
spares no eﬀorts to take green environmental protection actions, and our Energy Conservation plan practice won the Chinese Enterprise Top 10 Green Actions Award.In 2013, in the 1st summit, Sinopec Corp. joined hands with 60 Chinese enterprises to 
sign the Initiative of China’s Business Community on Caring for Climate . We oﬃcially launched Sinopec Clean Water & Blue Sky Campaign and submitted relevant achieve -
ments to the UNGC Leadership Summit and Caring for Climate Summit.
UNGC China Network in 2015. We actively participat-
ed and organised the Ecological Civilisation & Beauti-ful Home Caring for Climate China Summit, leading Chinese enterprises to pay attention to climate change.
tion technology was applied among oil ﬁeld enter-
prises, recovering about 200 million cubic meters of methane in 2015, and reducing greenhouse gas 
emission by 3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent.
Carbon trading
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. continued to participate in 
carbon trading. Pilot carbon trading enterprises all met carbon quota and trading targets, with a carbon trading volume of 1.80 million tonnes and a turnover of RMB54 million. As of the end of 2015, our trading volume had reached 3.90 million 
tonnes 
with a turnover of RMB140 million, accounting for 
roughly 8% of the total domestic trading volume and 
turnover.
Sinopec Corp. and Chongqing Municipality jointly 
organised an emergency drill for shale gas ﬁeld incident
Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
33 34Shared Development
Sinopec Safety Management Manual
(IV) Shared Development Leads to a Harmonious Future
Sharing the fruits of development between enterprises and the societySinopec Corp. understands that the enterprise’s sustainable development is not possible without support 
and engagement of stakeholders. By practicing safety production, protection of rights and interests, and public welfare, we take care of our value chain partners including our employees, investors, consumers and suppliers, as well as communities where we operate. We strive to share the fruits of our development with our stakeholders and society.
1.Guarantee safety production 
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. issued Sinopec Safety Management Manual and revised 10 regulations related to safety management to standardise and further strengthen its safety production.
Sinopec Safety Management Manual is a practical and performance-oriented guideline including 19 modules of 
safety organisation and safety responsibility, as well as 61 management elements. It outlines the overall requirements, management philosophies, policies and targets of Sinopec safety production.
Safety hazards detection and treatmentIn 2015, Sinopec Corp. increased eﬀorts in detecting and treating safety hazards through enhancing hazards treatment and rectiﬁcation in oil and gas pipelines and launching hazards 
Management philosophies:
· Safety awareness roots in designing, management, and responsibility.
· First-asked responsibility system. 
· Qualiﬁed safety training is mandatory before starting work.
· Everyone has the right to refuse unsafe work and stop unsafe behaviors.
· All incidents can be attributed to management reasons and hence can be prevented.
· Whoever has done due diligence will be exempt from responsibility, and whoever
  neglects his duty will be held responsible.
Safety policies
life foremost, safe development; prevention ﬁrst, comprehensive treatment; leader accountability, everyone’ s responsibility.
Safety targets
zero defect, zero violation, zero incident.Sinopec Corp. regularly conducts a long-term 
program of “I make a diagnosis on safety hazards”, which encourages employees to diagnose unsafe factors around them, and opens a green channel for employees who proactively oﬀering sugges -
tions regarding safety management in order to eliminate hidden hazards as early as possible.
In 2015, Sinopec Maoming Petrochemical Company 
elaborated its safety management system and 
Safety production training and education
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. revised Rules on Sinopec Safety Training Management, in which it classiﬁed training levels and 
increased the awareness of safety and responsibility of employees at all levels. The Company’s total investment in safety training for the year 2015 was about RMB310 million and total on-site employees were required to be trained qualiﬁed.
Safety production emergency management
Case:  Safety Production, Everyone’s Responsibility – “I make a diagnosis on safety hazards”In 2015, Sinopec Corp. revised its regulations including Rules on Sinopec Safety Production Emergency Management, optimising the organisational structure and duties and the rules on information receipt and report, emergency response, on-site emergency command and special plan onsite handling, to reinforce 
Sinopec Corp. and Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region 
jointly organised a comprehensive emergency drill for oil tank ﬁre and explosion incident
treatments in intro-plant pipelines and tank ﬁelds. As of 
December 2015, all hidden hazards found in enclosed spaces were treated.
mechanism into following feasible solutions: allocated 
three-level safety supervisors and two-level inspection teams, optimising the controlling mechanism among responsibility, regulations, procedures and direct operations, diﬀerentiating the reward systems which rewards staﬀs under ten circumstances such as aloft equipment and pipeline inspection, night inspection and bad weather inspection. By putting its implementa-tion of safety management system and mechanism in place, no incident occurred in 2015.
the emergency system. Each subsidiary completed their 
own emergency plans correspondingly and conducted emergency drills in various ways targeting areas where production incidents were prone to happen as well as emergency management focuses.
2015
   Carried out the selection of excellent talents. 100 people were honored as Sinopec Experts 
with Outstanding Contributions, and 200 people won “Min Enze Science & Technology 
Awards for Young Talents”. Sinopec Corp. recommended 3 national candidates for the state’s “Talents Project”, 2 candidates for “Li Siguang Geological Science & Technology Awards”, 2 candidates for “Sun Yueqi Youth Award” and 5 candidates for “Youth Geological Awards”.
   282 people were awarded the professorship title, and 4,910 people were awarded 
the senior title.
   Sinopec Corp. organised technical contests in 8 specialties and occupational skill 
contests in 6 ﬁelds. Approximately 120,000 people participated in job training, internal selection and intensiﬁed training activities.
At the end of 2015
    Sinopec had 5 chief experts, 140 senior experts, and 75 chief experts and 1,360 experts 
working in its subsidiaries. 
   One person was awarded the title of national technical expert, and 107 people were 
awarded the title of Sinopec technical experts.
•Sinopec had 17 technical specialists, 90 chief technicians and 818 principal technicians.
Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
36 35Shared Development
2.Adhere to people-orientation
Respect and safeguard employees’ rights and interests
Sinopec Corp. respects and safeguards internationally 
recognised human rights, and consciously resists any actions of disregarding for human rights or human rights violation. We strictly comply with state laws and regulations like Labor Law, as well as corporate policies such as the Recommendations of Sinopec on Strengthening Labor and Employment Management. We forbid gender, area, religion or nationality discrimination 
regarding recruitment, training and promotion, treat all employ -
ees equally, and forbid the use of child labor or forced labor. We 
adhere to the principles of equality and consensus through consultation, and sign labor contracts with employees. We protect employees’ privacy, pay social insurances for employees, provide reasonable compensation and beneﬁts, as well as holidays and paid leave as required by the state.
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. strictly adhered to the state’s occupational health & safety standards for employees in the energy and 
chemical industry, revised Rules on Sinopec Occupational Health Management, and integrated the supervision on  OHS  to enhance employees’ health management and ensure employees’ physical and psychological health.
Guarantee occupational health
Facilitate career developmentWe build a talent pool according to the Company’s 
Medium and Long term Plan for Talent Team Construc -
tion (2010-2020). In 2015, we enhanced the overall training design, explored to develop a position training course system for operations and management person -
nel, and developed a series of leadership training programmes with an aim to improve comprehensive In 2015, Sinopec Corp. formulated Recommendations on Improving 
Talent Growth Channel Construction to optimise the talent selection, 
assessment and motivation mechanism and make the talent develop-ment channel more suitable for career development requirements, talent growth rules and talent management characteristics.
Facilitated the construc -
tion of the team of leading experts and young talent
Upgrade regulations 
standard
Strengthen risk 
control
Enhance health 
awareness•Revised Rules on Sinopec Occupational Health Management, and regulated 
occupational health protection work.
•Strengthened project management of the Three Simultaneities for occupational 
health, and intensiﬁed the control over the source of occupational disease hazards;
•Fully utilised the safety management information system to strengthen occupational health risk assessment and control;•Conducted occupational health risk detection and treatment, strengthened occupa -
tional health hazards monitor, and created a safe and sound working environment;•Carried out employees’ occupational health check-up. In 2015, 280,000 person times of occupational health check-up were completed, and diagnosis and treatment for people with abnormal results were arranged.
•Enhanced special labor protection for female employees;•Reinforced occupational training and education, improved health protection  awareness and ability;•Strengthened Employees Assistance Plan (EAP) to improve employees’ physical and  mental health. 40% of total employees were beneﬁted from EAP program in 2015.•Published books covering health, psychology and safety etc., and handed to employees.
11
Number of people  of the State’s 
Thousand Talents Programme2015
qualities and capabilities.At the same time, we 
organised Youth Backbone Innovation Ability Training Class to nurture and select young talents, developed and improved training information management platform and training resources sharing platform to manage the operations of training programmes online.
Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Shared Development
38 37
Stress communication with and return to investors
Caring for EmployeesIn 2015, Sinopec Corp. enhanced communications with investors by attend ing 
27 capital market conferences held at home and abroad, holding 195 
one-on-one and group meetings, arranging over 100 investor visits at Sinopec Head Oﬃce, and paying visits to over 60 investors abroad. We developed more channels for communications with investors, and increased their understanding of Sinopec Corp. by providing replies to issues investors concerned through performance announcement, analysts and media 
meetings, hotlines and SSE E-platform.
The Company’s proﬁts distribution policy took into consideration both shareholders’ interests and our sustainable development, which has demon -
strated consistency and stability. Dividend pay-out ratio has been over 40% for four consecutive years.In 2015, Sinopec Corp. continuously developed the construction of its 
Home Culture by creating conditions for employees’ overall develop-ment, caring about employees’ life, and organising various recreational sports activities. By doing so, Sinopec Corp.  increased team cohesion and sense of belonging.
3. Win-win with partners
Dividend pay-out ratio
over  40%
Increase customer valueSegmenting customers, provide considerate 
service : Sinopec Lubricant segmented customers by 
categories like vehicle lubricant, industrial lubricant 
and special product, set up customer identiﬁcation, 
Well-established management system bringing 
together multiple standards: Sinopec Lubricant estab -
lished a management system incorporating quality, safety and environmental standards, hence ensuring standardised control over the entire process from product R&D, manufacturing, marketing to after-sale services. The company has adopted ISO9001 as its basic quality management system, and obtained Based on product quality standards provided in the 
state’s laws and regulations, Sinopec Corp. develops its own more strict enterprise standards throughout the full lifecycle quality management, from product R&D to after-sales service, aiming to provide healthy, safe and satisfying products and quality services to customers and consumers. Through multiple ways like 
Case:  Sinopec Lubricant Company develops customer value and upgrades service quality
 Value orientation: “people oriented”.
Core concepts: “I rely on my company for growing; my company relies on me for development”.Content: build a “sweet home, peaceful home, progressive home, h armonious home”.
Code of conducts: “integrity, discipline, fraternity, accomplishmen t, responsibility”.Case:  Home Culture construction of Sinopec Corp. Marketing Company
Sweet home : the Company shall create 
for the employees clean, comfortable 
and digniﬁed working and life conditions, and care for employees’ spiritual and cultural needs.
Peaceful home : the employees shall 
know what can be done and what cannot be done, conduct business with integrity, and abide by laws, regulations and rules.Harmonious home : harmony is precious. The 
Company is dedicated in setting up a harmoni ous 
environment with employees’ good morali ty,by 
strengthening communication and practicing democratic management. A harmonious family will prosper.Progressive home : core value is responsibility. 
The Company shall communicate its vision and 
goals to employees, and provide a platform to learn and grow for employees; meanwhile, employees shall contribute their talents and intelligence for the growth of the Company.
Every enquiry and every order from customers will be handled immediatelyRecreational Sports 
Dividend pay-out ratio čaccording to  ASBE  ĎTS16949 quality management system certiﬁcation for its 
automotive customers. Similarly, its Chongqing Branch has obtained AS9100 quality management system certiﬁ -
cation for its aviation and aerospace users, while Binhai Branch has added VDA6.1 quality management system certiﬁcation to satisfy customers’ needs for exporting products to Europe.E-commerce platform, customer service center, online 
service and customer satisfaction survey, we follow up customer requirements, address complaints, and improve customer satisfaction. At the same time, we improve customer information protection regulations and measures to protect customer privacy and informa -
tion safety.
development and maintenance management processes and 5 technical support centers, and provided pertinent lubrication solutions.
50.2%
56.4%
41.7%
2013
2014
2015Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
40 39Shared Development
Strengthen the Contractor management
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. revised its regulations including Rules 
on Bidding and Tendering for Sinopec Construction Projects, and Rules on Sub-contracting and Outsourcing of Sinopec Construction Projects. We conducted contractor safety management in eight areas to improve the manage-ment level, namely, identifying the owner’s primary respon -
sibility in a project, setting up and optimising rules and 
regulations, strictly implementing the criteria for HSE 
qualiﬁcation, regulating contractor safety training and education, strictly implementing requirement of project commencement, strengthening HSE process supervision etc., and disciplining the performance appraisal of contrac-tor,etc.
Improve supplier management
With the spirits of Law-abidingness, Compliance, Fairness and Integrity, Sinopec Corp. strictly complies with the State’s laws 
and regulations like Law on Bidding and Tendering, and the Company’s speciﬁc regulations like Rules on Equipment & Materi al 
Procurement Tendering and Bids Evaluation. We optimised supplier tendering and assessment mechanism, promoted the 
construction of the integrity system, implemented further transparent procurement, and built a healthy procurement culture.In 2015, Sinopec Maoming Petrochemical Company 
carried out comprehensive contractor safety manage-ment to classify the severity of the site violations and incidents of the contractor, and adopted accumulative scoring appraisal. The contractor or individuals whose accumulative scoring exceeded a predeﬁned criterion would be blacklisted or disqualiﬁed. In October, the company investigated and ﬁned the contractor with 
violation behaviors, and two individuals with severe violating behaviors were expelled and blacklisted.
Promote procurement with social responsibility
Lead the development of suppliers and the supply industry
Achieve supply chain collaborationIn 2015, Sinopec Corp. kept on promoting procurement with social responsibility, and incorporating relevant certiﬁcations of green and low-carbon enterprises into the tendering evaluation criteria. We further improved the supplier evaluation system, and included the following criteria into the evaluation system: ISO14000 certiﬁca-tion and ISO 18000 OHS certiﬁcation, Emergency Management System of Safety Production, Labor Protection Measures, Social 
Responsibility Fulﬁllment, and Discharge and Waste Disposals.
Sinopec Corp. paid much attention on training of suppliers, led the 
development of suppliers and the supply industry, and eventually improved suppliers’ high value-added manufacturing capability.
Starting from the year of 2011, Sinopec Corp. had co-worked with a 
domestic steel pipe manufactory on developing the application of titanium alloy materials in the acid gas ﬁeld with complex geological conditions. After four years of joint eﬀorts, multiple core technical bottlenecks were overcome. On May 17th, 2015, Sinopec Southwest Oil and Gas Company successfully used the ﬁrst batch of titanium ally oil pipes with a large-scale industrial production, in Yuanba 205-2 Well located in Langzhong Sichuan province. The pipes reached a depth of 6,448 meters. This is the ﬁrst successful experience of titanium alloy petroleum special pipes putting into practice in the super-deep high sulfur content oil and gas ﬁeld in the world.
Sinopec Corp. fully utilises technologies such as the Internet, big data and cloud computing and developes an EPEC E-commerce platform for industrial products procurement. The Company transforms its development model from solely Equipment and Materials supply and procurement management within Sinopec business area to provide procurement service and trans-boundary 
operations, which provides value-added services 
2.0
2.7
18.4Percentage of suppliers with ISO 18000 OHS 
certiﬁcation č%Ď
2013
2014
2015
22.5
23.4
24.2
2013
2014
2015
Percentage of suppliers with ISO14000 certiﬁcation č%Ď
Case:  Collaborated R&D helps suppliers to develop
Continues to promote open tendering 
and expands the scope for suppliers. Suppliers can participate in Sinopec’s 
equipment and material procurement, 
and qualiﬁed suppliers can participate in open tendering and other procurement activities.Pre-qualify suppliers based on qualiﬁcation 
criterias including the Suppliers Pre-Qualiﬁcation Plan for Participating Open Tendering ( Trial 
Implementation) published by Sinopec Corp.
Publish Rules on Equipment & 
Material Procurement and 
Sourcing, optimising dynamic supplier quantiﬁcation, to score suppliers’ product quality, price, delivery and service over the system dynamically.
According to scoring results, suppliers with dishonest behaviors, corruption behaviors or poor satisfaction from the End-user will be 
degraded, and scoring results are opened to the public on EPEC E-commerce platform.For suppliers being degraded, 
Sinopec Corp. actively helps them to identify the issues and assists their improvement.
Case:  Sinopec Maoming Company implemented 
contractor violation scoring appraisal
including the third-party procurement and tendering 
service, supply chain ﬁnance, the third-party payment, big data analysis, credit rating and market
ing, etc. for 
the whole society. By means of innovative combination between the Internet and Supply Chain, Sinopec Corp. aims to achieve a win-win supply chain collaboration and provide a growth impetus for reform of the supply front. 
4.Contributions to the society
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. kept on supporting the development of communities 
where we operate. Through improving community infrastructure, supporting local culture and environment development, we increased the happiness of community residents. Meanwhile, we fully utilised our own industrial advantages to create more jobs, promote development of local enterprises and boost economic growth. We input totally RMB6.754 billion investment in culture and education, community service and medical care in 2015.
Support community construction
6.754 billion2015
Contributions to cultural education, 
community development and medical service (RMB)Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
42 41Shared Development
I did a calculation –each shale gas well development will 
generate RMB200, 000 to 500, 000 income for Jiaoshi Town. 
This is a good fortune for local people.              ------ Sheng Chaohong, cadre of Jiaoshi Town“
”
During the modiﬁcation and expansion process of the 15 million tonnes per year integrated reﬁning and chemical project, Sinopec Zhenhai Reﬁning & Chemical Company provided to the public with the environmental impact report, Q&A about the environmental assessment technology, and Case:  Handle community grievance and enhance communications between enterprise and communities
EPEC is an E-commerce platform integrating procurement and sales functions built by Sinopec Corp. based on its years of experience in equipment and material procurement and supply, and supported by various technologies like the Internet, cloud computing and big data.
   
   It uses the cloud computing architecture, which can uphold nearly 1,000 
billion database inquiries.
   
It can analysis customer basic information, trading information and behavioral information generated by big data 
to understand the type and structure of customers.
  
It can conduct supply chain ﬁnance business to support supplier development. Based on contracts and accounts 
payable data between Sinopec Corp. and suppliers, EPEC can assist suppliers to apply for bank ﬁnancing.Case:  Sinopec EPEC helps to build a supply chain collaboration
Poverty alleviation and disaster relief
Sinopec Corp. actively supports the development of poverty-stricken areas in China 
through combining poverty alleviation with development, and striving to improve the self-development ability of the poverty areas. In 2015, we undertook poverty alleviation work in Yingshang County and Yuexi County of Anhui Province, Fenghuang County and Luxi Country of Hunan Province, Yopurga County of Kashi in Xinjiang, and Dongxiang County of Gansu Province, and implemented 41 projects with an input of RMB 45.11 million. At the same time, we dedicated to improving the 
local living conditions of Qinghai and Tibet and input RMB 21.14 million to support 
the development of these places .
Sinopec Corp. spares no eﬀorts in participating in emergency rescue and disaster relief. In 2015, during the explo -
sion in Binhai New District of Tianjin and the capsising of the cruise East Star, we immediately took part in the rescue 
and opened Green Channels in the service stations.
Financial aid to Qinghai and 
Tibet (RMB)21.14 millionImplemented 41 projects
Contributions to poverty 
alleviation programmes 
(RMB)45.11 million2015
Sinopec Corp. focused on communication with 
community residents, actively handled the community grievance and prepared environmen -
tal impact reports for all major projects, in which introducing the project information, possible impact on environment, precaution measures to prevent or mitigate the adverse impact on the 
environment.We took local residents’ opinions 
seriously and responded their concerns in the environmental impact reports.
Operator from Sinopec East China Oil & Gas Company tells the local 
children safety knowledge 
Operator from Sinopec Fuling Shale Gas Company introduced 
shale gas knowledge to local residents
   Infrastructure construction
•Input early RMB 50 million to Blenheim Valley Drinking Water Project .•Input RMB 2.65 million to built 9 drinking water projects in Fenghuang and Luxi County in western Hunan. Drinking water problem for 8,702 people was solved. •Built village-level well-oﬀ homes for the aged in Yingshang County with an input of RMB 3 million and helped build 9 cement village roads with a total length of 23.4 kilometers.•Built 16 village-level cultural activity rooms in Yopurga County in Xinjiang.scientiﬁc knowledge about petrochemical. In addition, the 
company holds Open-to-Public Day and communicates with residents of the area surrounding the project to 
achieve better understanding. From 2013 to now, over 3,000 public representatives have attended 62 Open-to-Public Day events.Fuling shale gas ﬁeld provides gas to local enterprises and 
gas companies. While contributing to the local gas supply, 
it also provides good fortune to Central China, Eastern China and Southern China through Sinopec Sichuan-East
ern 
China gas pipeline, delivering Fuqi for the green development of Chongqing city and provinces and cities along the way. The development and process
ing of shale 
gas and pipeline construction also bring new business 
Case:  Fuqi (Fuling gas) brings good fortune (homonyms of Fuqi in Chinese)opportunities for local enterprises. Sinopec Corp. had established joint ventures with local government, and introduced 25 local suppliers to participate in production and construction, which oﬀered more job opportunities for local residents. According to the statistics of the local government, Fuling shale gas ﬁeld has contributed to the increase of the GDP in Fuling 
district by 1.5%.
Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Shared Development
43 44“”In 2015, over 40 teenagers from Naqu Tibet attended the 
event of Sinopec Lubricant-Chinese Astronauts Experi -
ence Camp. To the end of 2015, Sinopec Lubricant had organised 8 Chinese astronauts experience camps which helped over 400 teenagers from around the country experience becoming astronauts.
In 2015, during the harvest time of spring ploughing, summer planting, harvesting and ﬁeld management and 
autumn harvesting, sowing and ploughing, Sinopec Corp. continued to provide services for farmers by supplying free diesel, driving fueling trucks to the ﬁeld, and arranging employees to help farmers with their farm work.
Sinopec Henan Marketing Company formed a team to help farmers2015 IAAF Beijing World Championships
Sinopec Lu’an Marketing Company used small oil tankers to 
deliver oil products to farmerI believe that such event will inspire the children to embrace the future, motivating them to 
overcome obstacles and acquire knowledge persistently.                                      ------ Luo Yuzhen, Teacher of No.2 Middle School in Naqu, Tibet
Support in the harvest time
 Support the sports undertakings
Support country’s major events
Public philanthropySinopec Corp. actively supports sports undertakings, and has become an oﬃcial partner of IAAF since 2010. In 2015,we continued to support IAAF Beijing World Championships in Athletics and set up Sinopec Better Life Exhibition outside the stadium, receiving 5,000 
In 2015, Sinopec Corp. were actively engaged in social donations, 
and executed many public philanthropic activities like the Lifeline Express Programme, Warm Station with Love, and volunteer services. We donated RMB112 million and oﬀered volunteer services for 420,000 person-times, totaling 840,000 hours of services.In the 70th Anniversary of the Victory of the Chinese  People’s 
War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression and the 
World Anti-Fascist War held on September 3rd, 2015, Sinopec Corp. provided gasoline, jet fuel and 
diesel oil 
2015
Person-times of Sinopec volunteer service 
(thousand person-times)  
 420 
Total hours of Sinopec volunteer service (thousand hours)   
840  Donations (RMB) 
112 million
  Industrial support
•Sinopec Corp. supported industrial development in poverty-stricken villages to increase the income and develop-ment ability of villagers. During 2014-2015,we helped develop and plant 209 acres of red kiwi in Fenghuang, Luxi and Yuexi.
 Aid to education
•In 2015, Sinopec Corp. input RMB 5 million to help developing education in poverty-stricken areas. We provided RMB3 million education development funds to Dongxiang County of Gansu, supporting 75 schools and 8,497 students. We continuously provided assistance to students from poor families to complete their study. Since the establishment of Sinopec scholarship in 2008, 9,421 students in four designated poverty-alleviation counties in Anhui and Hunan had received ﬁnancial aid.person times of visitors daily on average. The Exhibition demonstrated the combination of energy, sports and better life with technological concepts, user-friendly design and rich content.
for the military parade and made a remarkable contribution to the parade, to remember the history, muse over the revolutionary martyrs, and cherish peace together with people around the world.• Actively and continuously cleaned the beach and the parks, and shared environmental protection concepts. Up to 
date, over 30 cleaning activities have been organised with more than 600 person-times of participants, including 
personnel from government organs, philanthropic groups, automotive industry associations and schools, in addition to Sinopec own employees.Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
46 45Data with warmth
Built 193  
warm stations
opened 510  driver 
lounges
provided road direction for 
60,000  person-timeschecked and repaired over 
10,000 motorcyclesprovided 128,000  
litres of hot water and hot 
porridgeserved 6 million 
person-times of drivers 
returning to hometown
provided free mobile device charging for 
16,000  person-timesprovided 796  
sling chairsover 5,000  
volunteers
provided free medicines and 
medical care for 15,000  
person-timesset up 655 
tents for rest
Sinopec volunteer fueled a motorcycle for free
“”
Thanks to Sinopec Bright Lifeline Express for recovering my eyesight, I can work and make a living after I  
recover.                                                                                                           
                                                                      --Marelaer, 23 year-old young man of the Yi nationality In 2015, Sinopec Corp. continued its eﬀorts in the Warm Station with 
Love – Care for Migrant Workers Going Home for Spring Festival programme. We built warm stations in 193 service stations in Guang -
dong and Guangxi provinces, providing free services such as emergency gasoline delivery and lounges for car drivers; supplied 10,000 motorcyclists a free tank of gasoline in Guangdong Province, as well as warm-keeping kneepads and safety vest to keep them 
warm on their way home.
Sinopec’s Warm Station with Love programme was awarded 2015 Global Brand and Outstanding Reputation Achieve-
ment Award – Corporate Responsibility Golden Award.
In 2015, Sinopec kept on inputting RMB9 million to support the 
Lifeline Express Programme, which entered Enshi of Hubei, Qiqihar of Heilongjiang, and Liangshan of Sichuan, carrying out free operations for 3,286 poor cataract patients, and helping them to regain their conﬁdence in a good life. The programme is a philanthropy that will never end.
Case:  Warm Station with Love –warm your way home
For 11 consecutive years, Sinopec’s Lifeline Express 
Programme has won Special Contribution Award granted by the Council of Lifeline Express Programmes. The programme was also awarded Outstanding Volun -
teer Service Project among State-Owned-Enterprises granted by SASAC. In addition, the programme was among the ﬁve-star public philanthropic programmes 
selected by Chinese Academy of Social Sciences listed 
in the Enterprise Public Philanthropic Blue Book. It was one of the 10 enterprise public philanthropic brand programmes and won the honorary title of Public 
Case:  Sinopec Hong Kong Beach and Country Park Concerning Group
• Cooperated with governmental departments including Hong Kong 
Environmental Protection Department and Agriculture, Fisheries and Conser-
vation Department, and facilitated the government to set up the Coast Clean-ing team and an oﬃcial website to release information on beach cleaning activities of various environmental protection organisations, and share environmental concepts.• Established a routine communication mechanism with experts, scholars 
and schools in the environmental protection community, and strived to 
conduct activities in a more professional, systematic and scientiﬁc manner.Sinopec Hong Kong employees and their families voluntarily set up Sinopec Hong Kong Beach and Country Park 
Concerning Group to clean the beach and the park.
Sinopec volunteers cleaned trash on Longgu 
Beach in Hong Kong
Xinjiang
GansuSichuan
Jilin
Yunnan
Guangxi
Ningxia
Tibet
GuizhouQinghai
HenanGuangdong
Fujian
Hubei
Shandong
Shanxi
Heilongjiang
Nei Mongolia2,501
1,062
1,010
1,004
1,005
764
1,232
1,280
1,1316,100
567
6,331
2,342
2,068
3,575
1,003
872
995
Case:  Sinopec Bright Lifeline Express – a public 
philanthropic train that will never stop
Philanthropic Model, Best Practice.
During 2004-2015, with a donation of total value of RMB127 
million, Sinopec Lifeline Express had travelled 18 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities, where more than 30,000 cataract patients had been cured, 14 cataract 
treatment centers and 1 microscopically ophthalmological treatment & training center had been built with donations from Sinopec, and 1 train had been named Sinopec in the programme.Shared DevelopmentLeaders of China and Saudi Arabia attended the operation launch 
ceremony of YASREF
Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
48 47
 (V) Open Development Leads to a Win-Win FutureSinopec Corp. responds to the One Belt One Road initiative, actively integrates itself into the economic globalisa -
tion. While promoting overseas business, we fulﬁll corporate responsibilities abroad in terms of abiding by 
international norms and upholding human rights, guaranteeing safety, health and environmental protection abroad and serving local economic and social development, driving multi-culture and community integration, and demonstrating company’s image of global corporate citizen.
1.One Belt One Road and overseas business
Sinopec Corp. upholds the principles of amity, sincerity, mutual beneﬁt and inclusiveness and consultation, coopera-tion and sharing. Making full use of company’s advantages in segments of petroleum and natural gas, reﬁning and chemi-cals, warehousing and logistics, trade, and technologies, etc., we enhances cooperation with countries along the One Belt One Road in Middle East and Central Asia, and achieve 
mutual beneﬁt.
In 2015, Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Reﬁning Company Ltd (YASREF), Sinopec’s ﬁrst reﬁning project abroad started 
commercial operation. This is the China’s biggest investment project in Saudi Arabia. We also invested in Sibur, 
Russia’s largest natural gas processing and petrochemical company, hence expanding our business platform aboard.
YASREF, a joint venture between Sinopec Corp. and Saudi Aramco Company, is one of the world largest factories that produce ultra-low sulfur oil products through single-series conﬁguration. The reﬁnery is 
equipped with advanced technologies, rational processes and high automation level. The high quality diesel and gasoline it produces meet the quality standards of Europe and North America respectively.Being China’s ﬁrst reﬁning joint venture abroad, YASREF 
is an important step for Sinopec in following China’s One Belt One Road initiative, giving play to our advanced technologies and management advantages in reﬁning and petrochemical segments, and promoting and 
expanding our business experience abroad. The project has become a model of economic cooperation between China and Saudi Arabia.
3. Safety, health and environmental protection abroad
2.Employee localisation and diversiﬁcationIn our operations abroad, Sinopec Corp. strictly adheres to a management model of 
talent internationalisation and employee localisation, and sticks to an equal, free and non-discriminating employment policy, providing jobs for countries where we invest in. We safeguard employee’s legal rights, interests and safety, provide professional skill training, and promote the development of local economy. We encourage employees of diﬀerent cultural backgrounds to respect each other’s religions, local customs and personal hobbies, and to be friendly to each other. In 
2015, Sinopec’s employee localisation abroad reached 67.43%.
Sinopec Corp. emphasises safety and environmental 
protection in our operations abroad. We strictly abide by international and local safety and environmental protection standards, and constantly improve safety management. By conducting safety risk assessment and training, occupational health management and overseas public safety protection, we ensure safe 
business operations abroad, as well as safety of employees and the public. Meanwhile, we enhance 
Sinopec Kazakhstan CIR Project took actions to conserve energy and reduce emission, mitigating environmental impact from operations:•Set up environmental monitor stations in residential areas around   the oil ﬁeld to monitor atmospheric condition.•Used gas turbine equipment to reduce air emission pollution.•Introduced environmental protection equipment to reduce wastes   generated in production activities, and treated household garbage.•Introduced wastewater treatment equipment for seawater logging   protection.
2015Employee (abroad) 
localisation rate
67.43 % Opening up is the road we must take to the society’s prosperous develop -
ment, and an important way to rejuvenate enterprise
Case:  Sinopec’s ﬁrst reﬁning project abroad–YASREF put into operation, promoting mutual beneﬁt between 
China and Saudi ArabiaCase:  We have been working on environmental protection abroadenvironmental protection awareness abroad, attach 
importance to energy conservation, emission reduction and ecological environmental protection. In 2015, we organised public safety training for 4,085 people and onsite safety training for 657 person-times abroad. We successfully prevented of Ebola and MERS infection among our employees abroad. Moreover, we compiled 
health guide manuals, and carried out psychological 
support programmes for our employees abroad. Open Development
   Sources of issues
Based on the state’s macro policy direction, and social responsibility and sustainable development standards 
analysis as well as company practices home and abroad, and taking into account concerns of various stakeholders, we identiﬁed 25 issues relating to Sinopec’s sustainable development.Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
50 49Responsibility Integrated into Management
4.Serving local economic and social development
In our business operations abroad, we persist in localised purchase to stimulate the development of local enterprises and promote local employment. We provide aid to improve local infrastructure, improve the level of cultural life of communities where our businesses are located, actively carry out public welfare activities, and support local social development.
Sinopec Mansarovar Energy Colombia Ltd. adheres to 
the local purchasing policy, and the local purchase reaches 89%. The company provides technical support to local small and medium-sized companies to facilitate their development, and supports local education through 7 programmes including carrying out student assistance programmes and establishing Internet for schools, beneﬁting close to 5,000 students. It also 
Case:  Join hands to build happy communities
Sinopec Russia UDM Project funded outdoor facilities for children in the local community    Issue matrix
Based on the initially identiﬁed 25 issues, we 
developed the Questionnaire on Substantial Issue Analysis for Sinopec 2105 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development, and conducted the survey among internal and external stakeholders including government agencies,
 investors, partners, 
enterprise employees, cons umers, non-governmen tal In order to improve the relevance and responsiveness of this Report, Sinopec Corp. conducted a sustainable 
development substantial issue analysis survey in 2015, and identiﬁed the most substantial critical issues for the year.Responsibility Integrated into Management
(I) Substantial Issue Identiﬁcation
1Sustainable development 
management
2Stakeholders
3Risk management
4Anti-corruption campaign
5Corporate culture construction6Management optimisation and upgrade
7Coordinated industrial chain development
8Coordinated development of traditional and emerging businesses
9One Belt One Road and win-win cooperation abroad
10 Innovative development11Provision of clean energy
12Energy conservation , emission 
reduction and response to climate change
13 Water resources management
14Ecological restoration and 
bio-diversity protection
15 Production safety16Employee rights and interests protection
17Employee career development
18Occupational health and safety
19 Employee care
20Attention to investor rights and interests21 Supply chain management
22 Product quality and service
23 Community development
24Public welfare and volunteer service
25 Social responsibility abroad
25 issues relating to Sinopec’s sustainable developmentNational macro policy directionInternational and domestic social responsibility standards analysisIndustrial sustain -
able development issue benchmarking
Focuses of public and investors’ opinionsCompany strategic development plan
Impact on Sinopec Corp.
Importance for stakeholders maintains the Bojaca Port Highway builds or 
improves recreational and sports facilities like basketball courts and libraries in the oil ﬁeld communities, hence beneﬁting more than 4,000 people. Furthermore, the company builds commu -
nity lounges and waste recycling centers to improve living condition and residents’ life quality, and 
create job opportunities.organisations and media. According to the survey 
results, we established a substantial issue analysis matrix based on the following two dimensions of “impact on Sinopec’s sustainable development” and “importance to stakeholders”, and set a priority order for the issues.
21
2511
23
24
5 9413372 12
18
101622 15
1
20
817
6
1914Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
52 51Key Performance Indicators
    Issue validation
We reviewed the selected issues relating to social responsibility and sustainable development to determine substantial issues.
    Communication on issuesWe moved forward based on the substantial issues, and communicated with stakeholders regarding the issue practice by means of WeChat, websites and regular reports, increasing the transparency of our operations.
The trust and support of stakeholders is a fundamental element for Sinopec’s sustainable development and steady 
growth. We actively build mutually beneﬁcial and win-win cooperative relationship with stakeholders, and drive 
balanced sustainable development featured with economic growth, friendly environment and harmonious society.(II) Communication with Stakeholders
governments and regulators, shareholders and creditors, employees, customers, business partners, communities and the public, media, non-governmental organizations
Stakeholders
By carrying out activities like Open-to-Public Day and Social Supervisors, and fully utilising traditional and new 
media including China Petrochemical News, sustainable development reports, Micro-blog, WeChat and oﬃcial websites, Sinopec Corp. strengthened communication and exchange with stakeholders.
  Social Supervisors: 
Sinopec Corp. has engaged social supervisors for ﬁve consecutive years. We hold symposiums regarding issues the public are concerned with, 
where supervisors candidly make their recommendations.
  Open-to-Public Day: 
in 2015, 62 subsidiaries of Sinopec Corp. held Open-to-Public Day, inviting 
community residents, school teachers and students as well as industrial experts to visit the enterprises to get a ﬂavor of what modern energy enterprises are like, and enhancing the public’s understanding of the enterprises.
What Sinopec Has to Say:
What Sinopec Has to Say is Sinopec’s oﬃcial Micro-blog and oﬃcial 
WeChat account. Through a cartoon character Little Stone, we communicate with netizens, release news, comment on current events, and disseminate scientiﬁc knowledge relating to petrochemi-cals. Throughout 2015, What Sinopec Has to Say released over 2,700 posts in Micro-blog and WeChat, and boasted 3.5 million stable readers, 15 million netizen interactions and 250 million readings.Diversiﬁed channels for social responsibility communication
Oﬃcial Micro-blog:http://weibo.com/sinopec
Oﬃcial WeChat public account:woshi_xiaoshitouKey Performance
(I) Economic Performance
Indicators 2014 2015 2013
Total assets (RMB billion) 1,451.4 1,443.1 1,382.9
Total liabilities (RMB billion) 804.3 657.5 759.7
Revenue (RMB billion) 2,825.9 2,018.9 2,880.3
Net proﬁts attributable to shareholders 
of the Company (RMB billion)47.43 32.21 67.18
Dividends declared (RMB billion) 23.83 18.16 28.01
Dividends pay-out ratio (%) 50.2 56.4 41.7
Taxes and fees paid (RMB billion) 292.3 327.4 296.9
Sales volume of reﬁned oil products (million tonnes)189.17 189.33 179.99
Sales volume of major chemical products(million tonnes)60.79 62.87 58.23
Rate of customer satisfaction with respect to lubricant sales (%)80.8 80.9 79.6
Rate of customer satisfaction with respect to chemical sales (%)94.3 89.7 92.9
Rate of complaints resolved from lubricant customers (%)100 100 100
Rate of complaints resolved from chemical products customers (%)100 100 100
Number of patents applied in 2015 4,968 5,246 4,442
Number of patents granted in 2015 3,011 3,769 2,388
(II) Environmental Performance
Indicators 2013 2015 2014
Change of Energy intensity (%) -2.01 -0.6 -1.57
Change of Nitrogen oxides emission (%) -3.9 -4.08 -4.19
Change of Ammoniac nitrogen emission (%) -4.2 -4.97 -3.97Compliance rate of wastewater discharge (%) 99.30 99.77 98.93
Change of industrial water consumption (%) -1.1 -1.0 -1.19
Change of COD in wastewater (%) -2.5 -4.14 -3.85
Change of SO2 emission (%) -8.1 -4.84 -4.71
Carbon trading volume (million tonnes)  2.1  1.8 ——Foreign teachers and students visited our 
subsidiary on the Open-to-Public Day
Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development 
(III) Social Performance
Indicators 2014 2015 2013
Safety training coverage (%) 91.3 100 90.6
Number of deaths 8 7 18
Accident mortality rate per 
1,000 employees (‰)0.0129 0.0086 0.019
Donations (RMB million) 124.90 111.85 245.17
Of it: Contributions to designated poverty            alleviation programmes (RMB million)46.49 45.11 40.78
Financial aid to Qinghai andTibet (RMB million)22.50 21.14 21.87
Number of aid-to-Tibet programmes implemented6 11 9
Number of patients cured under the Lifeline Express Programme3,006 3,286 3,802
Number of students aided 8,481 9,421 ——
6,753.23 6,753.88 6,754.65
Total hours of Sinopec volunteer service (thousand hours)800 840 760
Person-times of Sinopec volunteer service (thousand person-times)400 420 380(III) Social Performance
Indicators 2014 2015 2013
Total number of employees 358,571 351,019 368,953
Number of new employees during the reporting period2,873 2,633 1,954
Employee (abroad) localization rate (%) 71.73 67.43 71.57
Collective contract coverage (%) 100 100 100
Annuity coverage (%) 100 100 100
Percentage of employees aﬃliated with the labor union (%) 100 100 100
Percentage of employees of ethic group (%) 2.44 2.45 2.39
Percentage of female employees (%) 29.66 29.46 29.92
Percentage of female managers (%) 26.41 26.74 26.34
Person-times of occupational training 835,301 712,225 627,986
Investment in occupational training (RMB million)602.21 580.25 631.86
Occupational training coverage (%) 71.88 72.28 72.67
Employee occupational health examination coverage (%)98.8 98.9 98.7Social insurance coverage (%) 100 100 100
Health check-up and health ﬁle coverage (%) 98.8 98.9 98.4
Number of cases of new occupational disease diagnosed21 6 10
Total expenditure on employee occupational health training (RMB million)29.27 29.34 25.30
Total hours of employee occupational health training (hours)4,344,970 4,889,408 4,087,796
Total hours of safety training (hours) 1,947,724 3,545,528 1,822,696Investment in public safety abroad (RMB million) 4.99 6.05 5.34
Investment in safety training (RMB million) 277.79 310.45 248.09
54 53 54Contributions to cultural education, community development and medical service (RMB million)Key Performance Indicators• Actively and continuously cleaned the beach and the parks, and shared environmental protection concepts. Up to 
date, over 30 cleaning activities have been organised with more than 600 person-times of participants, including 
personnel from government organs, philanthropic groups, automotive industry associations and schools, in addition to Sinopec own employees.
Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Rating Report
56 55Looking Forward
The year 2016 marks the beginning of the decisive phase in the national eﬀort to build China into a comprehensive 
moderately prosperous society. Sinopec Corp. will uphold the concept of innovative, coordinated, green, open and shared development, and implement development strategies of value-oriented development, innovation-driven development, overall resources planning, open-up and cooperation, and green and low-carbon development. By vigorously driving structural adjustment and transformation, enhancing the structural adjustment of the supply side, and providing cleaner products and higher quality services for the society, we will better meet people’s needs, and build a world-class energy-saving and environmentally friendly enterprise.
As a lead participant of the Global Compact and an enthusiastic advocate of sustainable development, in 2016, 
Sinopec Corp. will work with cooperative partners and stakeholders to jointly advance ecological civilisation construction as well as green, recycling and low-carbon development, and to build a beautiful home with blue sky, green land and clear water!1. Rating Criteria:  
Upon the request of Sinopec Corp., Chinese Expert Committee on 
CSR Report Rating invited experts to form a Rating Team. The 
rating team rated Sinopec Corp. Communication on Progress 2015 
(hereinafter “COP”) as follows:
2. Rating process:
  The process assessment team interviewed members from the 
social responsibility department of Sinopec Corp.   The process assessment team viewed the relevant data involving 
the preparation of the social responsibility report of Sinopec Corp. 
on site.
  The rating team evaluates the management process of social 
responsibility report of Sinopec Corp. and the information disclosed in COP.
3. Rating results:
Process Management （★★★★★）
The secretariat to the Board of Sinopec Corp. takes a leading role in 
setting up a preparation team, the vice president participates in kick-oﬀ meeting of the report and views the report repeatedly. The 
preparation team identiﬁes stakeholders, and consults their advices by 
questionnaires, teleconference, interviews and open-to-public day. 
Substantial issues are deﬁned according to material issues of the 
company, relevant domestic and foreign policies, check-list industrial analysis and stakeholders’ survey. It is planned to release the report on the oﬃcial website and the results announcement conference concurrently with other forms of presentation of the report in simple 
version, WeChat and micro-blog etc. Thus, the report process manage-ment is super excellent.
Materiality （★★★★★）
The report systematically discloses key performance issues on its 
industries such as “Implement the macro policy”, “Quality upgrading of oil products”, “Occupational health management”, “Safety production 
guarantee”, “Focusing on the technological innovation”, “Develop new 
energy”, “Circular economy”, “Tackling climate change” etc. with 
detailed description. The report has super excellent materiality.
Completeness （★★★★）
The report systematically discloses key information on philosophy, 
system, campaign and performance in environment, society and governance in 2015 with 75.0% of core indicators disclosed on its 
industries, the report has excellence completeness.
Balance （★★★★★）
This report discloses negative information on “Number of deaths”, 
“Accident mortality rate per 1,000 employees”, “Number of cases of new occupational disease diagnosed” etc. It also gives a brief 
description of the results of investigation and treatment against 
the suppliers or contractors who violated the HSE requirements. 
The report has super excellent balance.
Date of Issuing: March 21, 2016Comparability （★★★★★）
This report discloses data on more than 60 key performance indicators of 
at least three consecutive years, including “Revenue”, “Sales volume of reﬁned oil products”, “Carbon trading volume”, “Total employees”, and 
“Philanthropic donation”, and compared " Reﬁning capacity ", " Supply 
capacity of reﬁned oil products ", “Ethylene production”etc.to domestic 
and foreign data. The report has super excellent comparability.
Readability （★★★★☆）
This report is themed on two sections of “Responsibility Creates Value” 
and “Responsibility Leads the Future”, and describes the content by advancing “Innovative development”, “Coordinated development”, 
“Green development”, “Open development” and “Shared development”, 
with a clear framework and logic. Pictures, tables and other forms are used 
to complement the writing. Abundance cases are adopted to describe the 
social responsibility practices. All of above make this report leading readable.
Innovativeness （★★★★☆）
This report is described following the ﬁve concepts of innovative, 
coordinated, green, open and shared development, focusing on the 13th Five-Year Plan and highlighting the responsibility of central enterprises. 
Each chapter sets up the stakeholders’ testimony strengthening reliability 
of the report. The advices about the CSR information disclosure from 
international investors are absorbed. So the report has leading innovative-
ness.
Overall Rating （★★★★★）
Through evaluation and deliberations, the rating team agreed to rate 
Sinopec Corp. Communication on Progress 2015 as super excellent by giving ﬁve-star rating to it.
4. Suggested improvements
Disclose more core indicators of the industry to improve the completeness of the report.
Rating team
Team leader:  Cheng Duosheng, Director of Corporation Innovation          
                            Department of China Enterprise Confederation
Team member:  Wei Xiuli, Associate professor of School of Economics                                  and Management of North China University of Technology                                Rating report on Sinopec Corp.
Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development
Huang Qunhui
Vice chairman of the Chinese ExpertCommittee on CSR Report Rating Zhang En, Fang Xiaojing and Wang Zhimin, Process Evaluators
Cheng DuoshengTeam leader of the expert rating teamUpon the request of Sinopec Corp., Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating invited experts to form a Rating Team. The rating team rated 
Sinopec Corp. Communication on Process 2015 (hereinafter “COP”) as follows:
 Sinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Appendices
58 57Appendices
(I) UNGC 10 Principles Checklist
UN Global Compact's 10 Principles Scope Sinopec Information Update for 2015
Human Rights
Labor
Environment
Anti-Corruption1.Businesses should support and respect the protection of 
internationally proclaimed human rights; andP25-32,P33-34,P35-37,P41-46,P47-49
P35
P14P35,P48 2.make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
P353.Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the
 eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
P35 4.the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor;
P35 5.the eﬀective abolition of child labor; and
6.the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
P25,P47 7.Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
P25-32,P48 8.undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
P30 9.encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies.(II) GC Advanced Level Criteria Checklist
Criteria for GC Advanced Level ScopeSinopec Information 
Update for 2015
Strategy, Governance
and Engagement
Human Rights 
Implementation
Labor Principles 
ImplementationCriterion 1: Key aspects of the company’s advanced level sustainability 
strategy in line with Global Compact principlesP13
P13,P35,P41
P35-37
P35-37,P48P13Criterion 2: Eﬀective decision-making processes and systems of governance for corporate sustainability
P51 Criterion 3: Engagement with all important stakeholders
P32 Criterion 4: Actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issue
P25-32,P33-34,P35-37,
P41-46,P47-49Criterion 5: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights
P13,P35 Criterion 6: Eﬀective management systems to integrate the human rights principle
Criterion 7: Eﬀective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration
P25-32,P33-34,P35-37,
P41-46,P47-49Criterion 8: Key outcomes of the human rights integration
Environmental 
Stewardship ImplementationP25Criterion 13: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship
P25-32,P48 Criterion 14: Eﬀective management systems to integrate the environmental principle
P25-32,P48Criterion 15: Eﬀective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship
P25-32,P48 Criterion 16: Key outcomes of the environmental principle integrationP35-37,P48 Criterion 9: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labor
P35-37,P48 Criterion 10: Eﬀective management systems to integrate the labor principle
Criterion 11: Eﬀective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of the 
labor principle integration
Criterion: Key outcomes of the labor principle integration
Anti-Corruption 
ImplementationP14 Criterion 17: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti-corruption
P13,P14 Criterion 18: Eﬀective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle
P14Criterion 19: Eﬀective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anti-corruption
Report InformationCriterion 22: The COP provides information on the company’s proﬁle and context of operation
P57-59 Criterion 23: The COP incorporates high standards of transparency and disclosure
P56 Criterion 24: The COP is independently veriﬁed by a credible third-partyP14 Criterion 20: Key outcomes of the anti-corruption principle integration
P37-41 Criterion 21: Implementation of the Global Compact principles in the value chain10.Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.UN Goals and Issues
Value Chain 
Implementation
Transparency 
and VeriﬁcationSinopec 2015 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development Appendices
59 60(III) Index of CASS-CSR3.0 Indicators
Responsibility Creates 
Value
Responsibility Leads 
the Future
Responsibility 
Integrated into Management
Key Performance
Looking Forward 
Rating Report
AppendicesEnriching Cultural Value G1.1 P09-10Promoting Social Value S2.27，S4.13，P5.2-5.3 P07-08Creating Economic Value M1.2，M1.4-1.6 ,P5.2-5.3 P05-06
Green Development Leads
to a Beautiful FutureM2.3,E1.1 ,E2.1-2.2,,E2.17-2.18,E2.23,E2.28
E2.30,E2.32,E2.34-2.36,E2.40,E3.1,E3.3,-4E4.1-4,E5.1,E5.5P25-32
Shared Development Leads 
to a Harmonious FutureS3.1-3.4,S2.5-2.7,S2.18-20,S2.22-2.23
S2.25-2.26,S2.25-31,M1.1-1.3,M2.6-2.7M2.9-2.11,M2.13-2.15,M3.4,M3.7,M3.9,G3.2
S4.5,S4.9-4.10,S4.13-4.15P33-46
Open Development Leads 
to a Win-Win FutureP4.4,S4.6-4.7,S4.9,S4.12, P47-49
Substantial Issue Identiﬁcation G1.3，G5.1,-5.2，G5.4-5.5 P50-51
G5.1 Communication with Stakeholders P51
P5.2 Economic Performance P52
P5.2 Environmental Performance P52
Social Performance P5.2 P53-54
A1 P55
A2 P56
Ten Principles of the UNGC A3 P57
GC Advanced Level Criteria A3 P58
Index of CASS-CSR3.0 Indicators A3 P59
Feedback A4 P60G2.1,G2.3-2.4,S1.1-1.3,M2.16-2.19,M2.21,M3.3 P13-20Innovative Development Leads to an
 Excellent Future
P4.2,M3.1,M2.1-2.3,M2.5 P21-24Coordinated Development Leads 
to a Sustainable Future
1. This Report completely and accurately describes 
the signiﬁcant impact of Sinopec on the economy, society and environment.
2. This Report responds to and discloses information 
about the concerns of stakeholders.
3. The information, indicators and data disclosed 
by this Report are clear, accurate and complete.
4. This Report’s logic line, content, text and wording, 
and layout are well designed.
1. What do you ﬁnd most satisfying in this Report?
2. What other information do you think should be included in this Report?
3. What suggestions do you have for our preparation of the sustainable development
 progress report in the future?Statements Very good Good Average Poor Very poor(IV) Feedback
Your Information 
Name:    Employer:      Title:Contact Tel:      Fax:E-mail:
Please give rating in respect of each statement below (please tick your choice).
Open-ended questionsRespected Readers:Thank you for reading this Report. Your opinions and suggestions are important for us to continuously improve the preparation of the Report. Please help us to complete the following Feedback Form and send it back to us to the following address.Feedback
China CCR Reporting Guidebook 
CASS-CSR3.0 – Guidelines for the Petrochemical IndustryContents Page of Report
P4.1-4.2 - Company Proﬁle
P3.1-3.2 P01-02 Address from ChairmanP1.1-1.5,P2.1 - Report Information
Secretariat of the Board
China Petroleum & Chemical CorporationNo.22 Chaoyangmen North Street,Chaoyang District,Beijing 100728,PRC