HKEx: 0762SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CONTENTS
Firmly Committed to Carrying the  
Responsibility of the National Strategy With the “Needs of the Country” in Mind
Building a solid foundation for compliant operations
Opening up social information arteriesPolishing our brand as the first choice of major communications supportServing coordinated regional development
Devoted to Shouldering “Corporate 
Responsibilities” and Firmly Fulfilling Obligations in Economic Development
Boosting the development of digital economy
Providing warm and intelligent servicesStrengthening reform to enhance motivationCreating a pool of inn ovative talents
Firmly Committed to Carrying the  
Responsibility of the People’s Livelihood With the “People’s Needs” in Mind
Facilitating the construction of a beautiful China
Promoting comprehensive rural revitalisationBuilding an integrated and open ecosystemEngaging in public charity to benefit society
Deeply Practiced the Responsibility of  
Scientific and Technological Innovation with the Insight of “Trend”
Deepening the innovation of scientific and technological innovation 
mechanismStrengthening core technology researchEmpowering digital transformationOptimising the layout of industrial innovation182023
25
30
343839
46
505358
64
65
6870Welcome to China Unicom
Company Profile
Cultural PhilosophyCorporate GovernanceThe Board of Directors and ManagementShareholding Structure
Responsibility Management
Strategy of ResponsibilityOrganisation of ResponsibilitySystem for ResponsibilityCapabilities on ResponsibilityCommunication on Responsibility
Appendices
Key Performance
Operations and development
Network capabilitiesCommitment in major assurance initiativesIndependent innovationCustomer servicePeople-orientedLow-carbon developmentCompliance managementCommunity responsibilityHonors and RecognitionDescription to the ReportIndexesFeedbackTopic 1: Shouldering Missions and Formulating  
Development Strategy
Topic 2: Vigorously Serving the Smart Winter 
Olympics06
06
06060708
71
7172737374
75
75757575767676777777787879821709
13
29
45
63Message from Chairman 04
Note: Please refer to our 2021 Annual Report for the details of Corporate Governance Report.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202104
The year of 2021 was a milestone year in the Chinese history, and has also been an im-
portant year for China Unicom to formulate its new strategy and start a new journey. In the face 
of the impact of the unprecedented pandemic, faster evolution of landscape in the past century, and more complex, severe and uncertain external environment, we resolutely implemented the national strategic deployments, bravely assumed economic, social, environmental as well as technological innovation responsibilities, and embarked on a new journey of high-quality devel-opment with new positioning, new strategy and new paradigm. We have demonstrated our new responsibilities in serving the implementation of major national strategies, the needs of people’s high-quality life and the transformation and upgrade of thousands of industries, showing new achievements in the beginning year of the “14th Five-Year Plan”.
Keeping the top priorities of China in mind, formulating strategies to break new 
ground. Facing the requirements of the new development stage of the country, China 
Unicom fully, accurately and comprehensively implemented the new development concept, 
actively served the construction of a new development paradigm, and shouldered the mission and responsibility of building a Technological Superpower, Cyber Superpower, Digital China and Smart Society. We closely followed the new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation trends, scientifically planned the Company’s positioning and development direction, accurately grasped the “timing” and “trend”. We formulated the “1 + 8 + 2” strategic planning system, put forward the new strategy of “Strengthen and Solidify, Preserve and Innovate, Integrate and Open”, focused on the five main responsibilities and main businesses of “Big Connectivity, Big Computing, Big Data, Big Application, and Big Security”, and strived to build “the national team in the operation and service of digital information infrastructure, the key force in the establishment of Cyber Superpower, Digital China and Smart Society, and the frontline troop in the integration and innovation of digital technologies”, so as to gather the mighty force to embark on a new journey and forge ahead in the new era. New achievements were made in high-quality development, as our economic performance hit a record high and our business structure continued to be optimised, contributing China Unicom’s strength to the “six stabilities” and “six guarantees” and fully demonstrated our role as a “stabiliser and ballast” of the national economy. New breakthroughs were made in digital and intelligent operation, as we built the world’s largest, most advanced and ultra-large-scale centralised IT system. The “five middle platforms” of public, government and enterprise, data, network and management were initially established, and the “Intelligence Brain” was officially released, which efficiently empowered thousands of scenarios and industries. The Company vigorously promoted the digital transformation of the supply chain, with our supply chain management ranked one of the leading supply chain management systems among central state-owned enterprises and was selected as an advanced supply chain model unit by the Ministry of Commerce.
Endeavoring in digital channels and reinforcing the foundation to cultivate corporate 
momentum. We developed ourselves in the main course of digital economy at full strength 
and achieved total transformation and upgrade of development momentum, path and mode. 
The Company accelerated the construction of intelligent and comprehensive digital information infrastructure that is high-speed and ubiquitous, cloud-network integrated, intelligent and agile, green and low-carbon, secure and controllable. The Company provided communication support to 192 “cloud diplomacy” of government officials and 31 major events such as the China International Import Expo, empowered the smart Winter Olympics with high standards and strengthen our brand as “No. 1 provider of communication support”. The Company comprehensively promoted the deployment of “dual-gigabit” network and built the fastest 5G SA network in the world. The Company’s gigabit broadband network covered 110 million customers, and ranked first in the industry in Northern China in terms of broadband speed. The Company helped narrow the digital divide with 100% mobile coverage in towns and villages, creating an unobstructed information channel for economic and social development. The Company 
MESSAGE FROM CHAIRMAN05
actively implemented the “Eastern Data, Western Computing” project to create 
a computing power network with advanced architecture, security, reliability and excellent service. The Company built a new “5 + 4 + 31 + X” data centre system and revamped the branding of Unicom Cloud. Through coordinated data-network, data-cloud and cloud-edge development, we strengthened the computing power engine for high-quality economic and social development. Leveraging the advantages of cloud, Big Data, IoT, AI, blockchain and security integration, we unleashed the value of data, served the country’s macroeconomic monitoring and collaborative governance, and deeply supported local governments’ data governance and data security services. We supported the “Cloudification, Digital Transformation, Intelligence Enablement” of thousands of industries, deeply implemented the 5G Applications “Sailing” action plan, and won 94 awards in the “Blooming Cup” competition held by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. The Company implemented the overall national security concept and strengthened the defense line of network information security. The number of scam calls decreased by 49% year-on-year, and the Company’s Big Data anti-fraud capability led in the industry. We insisted on independent innovation, adhered to “four orientations” and focused on making breakthroughs in “bottleneck” core technologies, with R&D expenses increasing 61.7% year-on-year. Approved as a national engineering research centre with more than 200 self-developed application products, we have created a number of well-known star products such as government Big Data platform, industrial Internet platform, and smart city base. The Company established the Western Innovation Research Institute and the Chongqing 5G Integrated Innovation Centre to create an industry-university-research-application innovation consortium, significantly enhancing its capabilities in digital technology integration and innovation.
Upholding the People-oriented principle and uniting the public to do 
good deeds. China Unicom always insists on people-oriented development and endeavours to allow people enjoy the convenience of life brought by the development of digital technology, continuously enhancing people’s sense of gain, happiness and security. At critical moments, we led the charge and successfully completed the flood control and disaster relief missions in Henan, Shanxi and other places, turning China Unicom into a front-line troop. Our Big Data supported more than 4 billion “health code” enquiries, and efficiently supported the assessment by the State Council and relevant ministries on the pandemic prevention and control and the resumption of work and production, as we became a reliable force for the country. We consolidated and expanded the achievements in poverty alleviation, and continued to strive for comprehensive rural revitalization. China Unicom digital village platform served more than 153,000 administrative villages and provided services for 14,363,000 rural permanent residents. Through the use of digital live broadcast technology, we cultivated a number of rural e-commerce product brands with good reputation, excellent quality and distinctive features. We provided warm and intelligent services with focus on “the elderly and youth”, creating services with five dimensions: reliability, ease, security, warmth and satisfaction. We built agile and intelligent service capabilities by setting up 2,100 smart elderly service centres nationwide, comprehensively improving customer satisfaction. Adhering to the harmonious coexistence of human and nature, the Company vigorously promoted the R&D and application of the new energy-saving technologies. Through the 4G/5G co-build co-share, the Company saved more than 17.5 billion kWh of electricity per year, reduced carbon emissions by more than 6 million tons. We empowered green production and living style, helping to achieve carbon peaking and carbon neutrality goals. We accelerated the construction of a digital ecosystem of “multi-party co-build, complementary edges and mutual promotion, cross-sector integration, coopetition and co-existence”, and created a new ecosystem covering the innovation chain, supply chain and value chain, building a “joint fleet” together with our partners. The Company comprehensively deepened co-build co-share, drove the rapid development of the supply chain, and facilitated the macro economy stabilisation with the sustainable development of the industry.Refining spirituality and enhancing reformation to become a first-
class enterprise. China Unicom always focuses on improvement on internal management. We leveraged the key role of reformation in building a new development paradigm, strengthened reform and system integration, cleared the “blockages” that restricted productivity, with a view to overcoming difficulties, seizing opportunities and making new achievements through reform. The Company vigorously promoted corporate culture, and established the business management philosophy of creating value for customers. We are spontaneously customer-oriented, employee-friendly, attentive to quality service, inherently innovative and proud of endeavours, cultivating the spirit of long-term endeavours and building the spiritual support of China Unicom. In the three-year action plan for state-owned enterprise reform, the overall progress of 130 reform tasks reached 93%. We deepened the market-oriented reform of subsidiaries. 100% of our subsidiaries have established a board of directors, the majority of which are external directors. We comprehensively promoted the tenure system and contractual management of management members. The Company stimulated the vitality of the front-line responsibility units, and initially formed a customer-oriented operation system tailored for the front-line units, continuously improving our ability to get close to the front-line scenarios and serve and empower front-line staff. The Company deeply implemented talent-based corporate development, holistically cultivated, introduced and used talents. The total number of innovative talents in the special zone reached more than 9,000, and more than 40 industrial experts were introduced. Our talent structure continued to be optimised. The Company continued to enhance its competitiveness, innovation, control, influence and risk management, effectively preventing and resolving major risks. We continued to strengthen, optimise and expand state-owned capital, and took a solid step towards building a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness.
The year 2022 is the starting year for China Unicom to fully implement its 
new strategic plan. We will keep the “two imperatives” and “the country’s top priorities” in mind to implement the strategic plan as the main task, focus on the five main responsibilities and main businesses, adhere to the two-wheel drive of market and innovation, stabilise growth, optimise network, focus on reform, improve capabilities, strengthen collaboration, and prevent risks. We will continue to promote the spirit of endeavour, march forward in the road of new “challenges” with confidence, and greet the successful 20th National Congress with excellent results.
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited
Chairman and CEO
March 2022China Unicom Sustainability Report 202106WELCOME TO CHINA UNICOM
China Unicom has taken the initiative to undertake the responsibility and uphold the mission to rally public support, foster new generation, 
develop culture and build a positive image. It adhered to the principle that culture is critical in prospering and strengthening the corporate and 
continuously strengthened the building of corporate culture, increased the soft power of corporate culture, and built a corporate culture system of China Unicom that consists of a core philosophy system and a code of conduct system. CULTURAL PHILOSOPHY COMPANY PROFILE
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited (“China Unicom”) is a Hong Kong-listed red-chip company of China United Network Communications Group 
Company Limited. It was incorporated in Hong Kong in February 2000 and listed on the New York Stock Exchange* and The Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited on 21 and 22 June 2000 respectively. The Company has been included as a constituent stock of the Hang Seng Index since 1 June 2001. The Company merged with China Netcom Group Corporation (Hong Kong) Limited on 15 October 2008.
China Unicom has been selected as one of the “Fortune Global 500 Companies” for 13 consecutive years and ranked 260th in the Fortune 
Global 500 for the year 2021. In 2021, China Unicom was accredited with “Asia’s No. 1 Most Honored Telecom Company” by Institutional Investor for six consecutive years.
China Unicom steered on the main course of digital economy at full strength, taking “Big Connectivity, Big Computing, Big Data, Big Application 
and Big Security” as the main responsibilities and main businesses, opening up new development space and integrating into the new development paradigm.
* The Company’s ADSs were delisted from the New York Stock Exchange on 18 May 2021. For details, please refer to the announcement  of the Company dated 
23 July 2021.
Corporate culture system of China Unicom
中國聯通「13579」戰略體系
創新引領 市場驅動 服務品牌 智慧升級 運營變革 人才強企 深化改革
永葆
本色文化興企管理提升財務支撐雙碳落實資本賦能風險防範創造環境戰略執行大聯接 大計算 大數據 大應用強基固本 守正創新數字信息基礎設施運營服務國家隊、
網絡強國數字中國智慧社會建設主力軍、數字技術融合創新排頭兵
融合開放
大安全公司
定位
戰略
發展
主責
主業
創新改革
引領
保障
提供高清直播、
子彈時間、多視角直播等新體驗創造智慧雲轉播、無人採訪、智能車聯網、遠程急救等新感受打造智慧指揮調度、智 慧 場 館、
沃智護、智慧物資管理等新應用為觀眾帶來
精彩觀賽體驗數智化高效
調度新理念用創新應用
突破空間距離聯通5G . 賦能智慧冬奧
智慧觀賽 智慧辦賽 智慧參賽
Corporate culture
system of
China UnicomCore
Philosophy
System
Code of
Conduct
SystemHigh prohibitionsof behaviours
Basic codeof conductOur Core Values Customer-oriented,
Employee friendly,Attentive to qualityservice, Inherentlyinnovative,Proud of endeavoursOur MissionConnect the world toinnovate and share a goodsmart living
Our VisionBe a creator of smart livingtrusted by customers
Our Management
PhilosophyCreating valuesfor customers
The Board of China Unicom is committed to high standards of corporate governance (including information disclosure) and recognises that good 
corporate governance is vital for the long-term success and sustainability of the Company’s business. As a company incorporated in Hong Kong, the Company adopts the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of the Laws of Hong Kong), the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong and other related laws and regulations as the basic guidelines for the Company’s corporate governance. As a company listed in Hong Kong, the current Articles of Association of the Company are in compliance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. These rules serve as guidance for the Company to improve the foundation of its corporate governance, and the Company strives to comply with the relevant requirements of international and local corporate governance best practices. There were no instances of any violation of listing-related laws and regulations by China Unicom in 2021. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE07 Responsibilities towards the investors
The Company attaches importance to investor relations and maintains ongoing dialogues with the shareholders, and in particular, to 
communicate with shareholders through annual general meetings. Annual general meeting shall be held every year, and extraordinary general 
meeting may be held when the Board deems it appropriate, the Company’s Directors and representatives of Board committees will attend the meetings. All matters at the Company’s general meetings are resolved by poll and the relevant procedures are explained at the meeting and the Company publishes the poll results in a timely manner, thereby offering protection of the shareholders’ rights and interests. The Company adopted Shareholders’ Communication Policy to ensure that the shareholders are provided with readily, equal and timely access to balanced and understandable information to protect their right to know.
In addition to publishing annual reports and interim reports, the Company discloses unaudited financial information and other performance 
indicators on a quarterly basis and announces operational statistics on a monthly basis in order to further enhance the Company’s transparency and improve investors’ understanding of the business operation of the Company. Upon the announcement of interim and annual results or major transactions, the Company will generally hold analyst briefings, press conferences, and global teleconferences with investors, during which the Company’s management would accurately and thoroughly respond to questions raised by stakeholders.
The Company has established the investor relations department, which is responsible for providing information and services requested by 
investors and maintaining timely communications with investors and fund managers. The Company also arranges from time to time roadshows and actively attends investor conferences arranged by investment banks, through which the Company’s management meets and communicates with investors. The Company actively responds to investors’ concerns, and transparently makes adequate disclosures on the Company’s efforts to address climate-related risks on climate change issues that have been widely concerned by investors in recent years.
Latest updates on the Company’s significant business developments are being provided in a timely and accurate manner through 
announcements, press releases and the Company’s website (www.chinaunicom.com.hk), so that investors can keep abreast of the Company’s latest developments. The Company was voted as “Asia’s Best IR Team (Telecoms)” by Institutional Investor. Responsibilities towards the capital markets
In order to further enhance the Company’s information disclosure system, and to ensure the truthfulness, accuracy, completeness and 
timeliness of its public disclosures (including inside information), the Company has adopted and implemented the Information Disclosure Control Policy. In an effort to standardise the principles for information disclosures, the Company established the Information Disclosure Review Committee which under the management and formulated the procedures in connection with the compilation and reporting of the Company’s financial and operational statistics and other information, as well as the procedures in connection with the preparation and review of the periodic reports. Moreover, the Company established detailed implementation rules with respect to the content and requirements of financial data verification, in particular, requiring the upward undertaking by the individual responsible officers of major departments. The Company’s effort in corporate governance (including information disclosure) is well recognised by the capital market, and was accredited with a number of awards.
 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT
To serve the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, the Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for reviewing and 
approving major corporate matters, including, amongst others, business strategies and budgets, major investments, capital market operations, as well as mergers and acquisitions. The Board of Directors is also responsible for risk management and internal control, and reviewing and approving the regular announcements periodically published by the Company regarding its business results and operating activities. In addition, the Board of Directors has overall responsibility for environmental, social and governance strategies and reporting. The Company has established three committees under the Board of Directors, namely, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
Liu Liehong
Chairman and
Chief Executive OfficerMai Yanzhou
Executive Director and Senior Vice PresidentChen Zhongyue
Executive Director and PresidentWang Junzhi
Executive DirectorChina Unicom Sustainability Report 202108
He Biao
Senior Vice PresidentLiang Baojun
Senior Vice PresidentTang Yongbo
Senior Vice PresidentLi Yuzhuo
Executive Director and Chief 
Financial Officer
Wong Wai Ming
Independent Non-executive Director
Cheung Wing Lam Linus
Independent Non-executive Director
Chung Shui Ming  
Timpson
Independent Non-executive 
DirectorLaw Fan Chiu Fun Fanny
Independent Non-executive Director
Note:  Changes of the Board of Directors and management
Liu Liehong was appointed on 3 September 2021, Wang Xiaochu has resigned on 27 August 2021, Chen Zhongyue was appointed on 19 
February 2021, Wang Junzhi was appointed on 3 December 2021, 
Li Fushen has resigned on 11 June 2021, Mai Yanzhou was appointed on 28 February 2022, Zhu Kebing has resigned on 18 June 2021, Fan Yunjun has resigned on 28 April 2021, Tang Yongbo was appointed on 30 December 2021, Li Yuzhuo was appointed on 28 February 2022.
 SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE
Notes:
*
 In 2017, approximately 10.9 billion shares of China 
United Network Communications Limited were
 
acquired by the strategic investors introduced by the mixed-ownership reform through non public share issuance and transfer of existing shares. These shares were no longer restricted from sale in November 2020.
**
 Pur
suant to the initial grant of restrictive share 
incentive scheme, China United Network Communications Limited granted approximately 800 million restricted shares to the core employees, of which, approximately 500 million shares were unlocked as of April 2021.
***
 Ex
cluded the interest regarding the pre-emptive 
right owned by China Unicom Group Corporation (BVI) Limited in 225,722,791 shares of the Company.
 As at 31 December 2021China United Network Communications
Group Company Limited
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited
(Issued shares: approximately 30.6 billion shares)China United Network Communications Limited 
(Issued shares: approximately 31.0 billion shares)China Unicom Group 
Corporation (BVI) Limited
China Unicom (BVI) Limited Public shareholders100%
36.8%
17.9%
26.4%***82.1%
53.5% 20.1%63.2%Strategic investors*, employee restrictive incentive 
shares** and other public shareholders09
Shouldering Missions and  
Formulating Development Strategy
Future business is promising if the strategic judgment is accurate, the strategic 
planning is scientific and the strategic win is active. Keeping the “two imperatives” and 
“the country’s top priorities” in mind, China Unicom conscientiously implemented the national strategic deployments and fully undertook the new missions given by the new era. Leveraging its own resources and edges, it adapted to technology and market development paradigms, closely following the trend of a new round of technological revolution and industrial reform. The Company defined its new positioning, new strategy, new deployments and new missions, unswervingly strengthening, optimising and expanding state-owned capital, and becoming a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202110
1 strategic 
planning
outlineSupervision and guidance
聚焦
戰略升級強基固本
守正創新 融合開放創新 合作Special action plans
Guiding opinionsImportant means 
DriveAction plan 
for buildingnew digital information infrastruc-tureAction plan for broadband and smart home develop-mentBig Data innovative application action planAction plan for the develop-ment of computing- network integrationAction plan for strong network and secure products and servicesAction plan for high quality service5G leading develop-ment action plan5G application “Sailing”action plan
Support
中國聯通「1+8+2」戰略規劃體系
公司新戰略
中國聯通五大主責主業Strategic planning outline of China Unicom
8 action plans
2 guiding opinions
為數字經濟提供
「第一聯接通道」
構建數字經濟「國家首席、政府首選、人民首信『安全第一盾』」
打造數字經濟「數字化服務第一供應商」為數字經濟打造「聯通數據」第一服務為數字經濟打造「第一算力引擎」
Supervision and guidance
Important means
Opinions about In-depth Implementation of 
Talent-based Corporate DevelopmentOpinions about In-depth Stimulation of
Front-line Vitality through Reform Building an overall “1 + 8 + 2” strategic planning system
 Systematically setting out the “13579” strategic systemWith a higher level of responsibility, a broader vision and a stronger mission, the Company scientifically formulated a strategic planning system 
consisting of “1 strategic planning outline + 8 action plans + 2 guiding opinions”, and comprehensively and systematically fulfilled its economic, 
social, environmental and technological innovation responsibilities with higher quality.
The outline of China Unicom’s strategic planning clearly defines “1 new strategic main line, 3 new positioning, 5 main responsibilities and main 
businesses, 7 innovation and reform measures, and 9 guidance and support measures”, which fully reflect the responsibilities of a great power in the nation, scientifically specifying the blueprint of its new journey, and define the ambition of high-quality development.“1 + 8 + 2” is an organic whole, which jointly guides China Unicom to endeavour in the main course of digital economy.
• 1 strategic planning outline: as the “guiding light” that leads the direction, it is the general guideline and strategy of China Unicom in the new 
era for corporate governance and development, playing the role of overall management and direction setting.
• 8 action plans: as the “nautical chart” that indicates the route, they act as an important link in the strategic planning system. They constitute 
the supply-side structural reform of China Unicom and refine the planning outline for enforceability and actionability, leading to the optimisation of 
deployment structure, more efficient resource allocation and higher development quality at a deeper level.
• 2 guiding opinions: as the “propeller” for acceleration, they are important means to promote the implementation of strategies, and 
manifestation of the organic combination of market-driven and innovation-driven development. They serve to solve the lack of innovative talents and lack of effective incentives in the Company, making the organisation and employees more productive, and injecting more vitality into the high-quality development of the Company.
中國聯通「13579」戰略體系
Innovation-driven
developmentMarket-driven
developmentService and
brandingIntelligent
upgradeOperational
reformTalent-based
developmentDeeper
reform
Maintaining our
characteristicsProspering
with cultureEnhanced
managementFinancial
supportDual carbon
implementationCapital
empowermentRisk
controlCreating
conditionsStrategy
executionBig
connectivityBig
computingBig dataBig
applicationStrengthen and solidify Preserve and innovateNational team in the 
operation and service of digital information
infrastructure, key force in the establishment of Cyber Superpower,
Digital China and Smart Society, frontline troop in the integration and innovation of digital technologies
Integrate and open
Big securityCorporate 
positioning
Strategic 
development
Main 
responsibilities and main businesses
Innovation 
and reform
Guidance 
and support
Providing new experiences
such as high-de/f_inition livebroadcast, bullet time and multi-angles live broadcastCreating new experience suchas smart cloud broadcast,unmanned interview, intelligentInternet of Vehicles, remote /f_irst aid, etc.Built new applications suchas smart command anddispatch, smart venues,Wo Zhihu and smart materialmanagementBringing wonderful
viewing experience
to the publicNew concept of
digital intelligence and
ef/f_icient coordinationBreaking through 
physical distance with
innovative applicationsChina Unicom 5G·Empowering Smart Winter Olympics
Smart spectating Smart
competitionSmart participation
中國聯通
企業文化體系核心理念
體系
行為準則
體系行為高壓線
行為基本準則核心價值觀客戶為本，員工為根，
服務為上，創新為魂，奮鬥為榮企業使命聯通世界創享美好智慧生活企業願景客戶信賴的智慧生活創造者
經營管理理念 為客戶創造價值
China Unicom “13579” strategic systemChina Unicom’s “1 + 8 + 2” strategic planning system11New strategy of the Company
By inheriting history, making up for shortcomings and giving full play to competitive edges, the Company’s strategy has been upgraded to 
“strengthen and solidify, preserve and innovate, integrate and open”. The new strategy is a complete system and always follows systemic concepts. 
It focuses on the presence as well as the long-term. It emphasises the market as well as innovation. It fortifies its bottom line and dares to try. It leverages competitive edges and embraces open cooperation. It also comprehensively and systematically responds to a series of important questions such as the foundation, drivers, means and path of China Unicom’s development in the new era.
• Strengthen and solidify: highlight the strengthening of network and service foundation in order to consolidate the fundamentals.
• Preserve and innovate: highlight the integrity of network and expansion into new digital and intelligent models to make a good portfolio.• Integrate and open: highlight the integration of factors and market convergence and succeed as a team with partners.
1個
戰略規劃
網要統領指導
Focus
Strategy 
upgradeStrengthen
and
solidify
Preserve 
and 
innovateIntegrate 
and
openInnovation Cooperation統
領指導重要抓手專項行動計劃
指導意見重要抓手
牽引建設新
型數字信息基礎設施行動計劃寬帶及智慧家庭發展行動計劃大數據創新應用行動計劃算網融合發展行動計劃堅強網絡和安全產品服務行動計劃高品質服務行動計劃5G應用
「揚帆」行動計劃5G引領
發展行動計劃
保障
縱深推進激發基層單元活力改革的指導意見 深入實施人才強企的指導意見
中國聯通「1+8+2」戰略規劃體系
公司新戰略
中國聯通五大主責主業中國聯通戰略規劃網要
8個
行動計劃
2個
指導意見
為數字經濟提供
「第一聯接通道」
構建數字經濟「國家首席、政府首選、人民首信『安全第一盾』」
打造數字經濟「數字化服務第一供應商」為數字經濟打造「聯通數據」第一服務為數字經濟打造「第一算力引擎」 Shouldering missions and defining new positioning and new strategy
New positioning of the Company
Embarking on a new journey, the Company actively served and integrated into the national strategy, resolutely shouldered the missions and 
responsibilities of Cyber Superpower, Digital China, Smart Society, and technological innovation, and positioned itself as “the national team in the 
operation and service of digital information infrastructure, the key force in the establishment of Cyber Superpower, Digital China and Smart Society, and the frontline troop in the integration and innovation of digital technologies”.
• National team in the operation and service of digital information infrastructure: We must resolutely implement the national mission, 
comprehensively build a first-class intelligent comprehensive digital information infrastructure in the industry in terms of breadth, thickness and depth, which is “high-speed and ubiquitous, spanning from sky to ground, cloud-network integrated, intelligent and agile, green and low-carbon, secure and controllable”, building an unobstructed information channel and a new digital base for economic and social development.
• Key force in the establishment of Cyber Superpower, Digital China and Smart Society: We must resolutely implement the Cyber Superpower 
strategy, serve the construction of Digital China and Smart Society, and ride on the trend digital, network-based and intelligent transformation. We leverage technologically-leading and highly integrated digital services of “full coverage, full online, full cloudification, green, and one-stop” to support the “Cloudification, Digital Transformation, Intelligence Enablement” of thousands of industries and promote the new development of digital production, digital life and digital governance.
• Frontline troop in the integration and innovation of digital technologies: We must resolutely implement innovation-driven development, focus 
on core technologies, focus on key applications, integrate and innovate, and build China Unicom into a technological innovation enterprise, so as to achieve high-level self-reliance and self-improvement of digital technology and become an important part of the national strategic technological strength.
 Expanding into new racecourses and laying the groundwork for five main responsibilities and businesses
Facing the new opportunities brought by the wave of digitalisation and the new demand for digital, network-based and intelligent 
transformation of hundreds of industries, the Company firmly grasps the modern characteristics of the information communication industry, adheres 
to its positioning and strengthens innovation-driven development. It shifts from traditional business competition to digital innovation development, from simple price competition to digital value creation, and from existing market competition to digital incremental market expansion. Taking China Unicom Sustainability Report 202112
1個
戰略規劃
網要統領指導
聚焦
戰略升級強基固本
守正創新 融合開放創新 合作統
領指導重要抓手專項行動計劃
指導意見重要抓手
牽引建設新
型數字信息基礎設施行動計劃寬帶及智慧家庭發展行動計劃大數據創新應用行動計劃算網融合發展行動計劃堅強網絡和安全產品服務行動計劃高品質服務行動計劃5G應用
「揚帆」行動計劃5G引領
發展行動計劃
保障
縱深推進激發基層單元活力改革的指導意見 深入實施人才強企的指導意見
中國聯通「1+8+2」戰略規劃體系
公司新戰略
中國聯通五大主責主業中國聯通戰略規劃網要
8個
行動計劃
2個
指導意見
Providing the “No. 1 connection”
for the digital economy
Building “the /f_irst choice of the country, government and people”in security for the digital economy
Creating the “No. 1 digital service provider”  for the digital economyCreating the “No. 1Unicom Data”  service
for the digital economyBuilding the “No. 1 computing engine”for the digital economy
Big
ComputingBig
Connectivity
Big
Security
Big
ApplicationBig
Data
 Leading and ensuring sustainable development with innovation and reform
• The Company gives full play to the key role of innovation and reform in building a new development paradigm, and adheres to the  
combination of market-driven and innovation-driven development. It sets out seven work aspects and, unleashes productivity through deep 
integration and efficient collaboration, clearing the “blockages” that restricts productivity, with a view to overcoming difficulties, seizing opportunities and making new achievements.
• The Company strengthens guidance and support measures. It put forward concrete support measures in nine aspects focusing on the service 
development strategy, the groundwork of main responsibilities and main businesses, as well as innovation and reform, in order to safeguard high-quality development.Five major responsibilities and businesses of China Unicom“Big Connectivity”, “Big Computing”, “Big Data”, “Big Application” and “Big Security” as the five main responsibilities and main businesses, the Company deepens digital technology to empower thousands of industries with intelligence and value, and lets people enjoy greater sense of reward, happiness and security in the course of digital, network-based and intelligent development.13
Vigorously Serving the Smart 
Winter Olympics
The year 2021 is a decisive year for the preparation of the Winter Olympics. As 
the sole official telecommunication services partner of the Beijing 2022 Olympics and 
Paralympic Winter Games, China Unicom adhered to the ideology of “Green Olympic Games, Sharing Olympics Games, Open Olympics and Honest Olympic Games” and earnestly implemented the requirements of “simplicity, safety and excellence” into its Winter Olympics communication services, so as to achieve zero fault in networks support, zero complaint in event services, zero infection in personnel, and zero negative public opinion related to the Olympics, contributing China Unicom’s wisdom and strength to the high-profile Olympic Games.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202114 Supporting the Olympic Games with smart networks and hyper speeds
China Unicom strived to build safe, reliable and future-oriented premium networks with right architecture, comprehensive functions and 
advanced technology, covering various scenarios such as competition venues, non-competition venues, service facilities, and traffic trunk lines. 
China Unicom’s premium networks served as an advanced digital base for a high-tech Winter Olympics, leveraging new technologies such as 5G, “IPv6+” and WiFi 6.
• The Company successfully completed the support for a series of testing activities under the theme of “Meet in Beijing” and conducted 
communication system testing as extensively as possible, which was highly recognised by various organising committees.
• The Company built the world’s leading intelligent comprehensive digital information infrastructure in 87 Winter Olympics venues across three 
regions in Beijing and Zhangjiakou, Hebei, creating a Winter Olympics “information channel”.
• On the Beijing-Zhangjiakou high-speed railway, the world’s first high-speed railway with continuous 5G 200MHz bandwidth coverage, we 
jointly built the ultra-high-definition live broadcast studio of “5G + 4K + high-speed rail” for the first time, letting passengers enjoy the 5G + 4K 
Winter Olympics grand visual entertainment on high-speed trains.
• 5G cloud broadcast was used for the first time in the Olympic Games. New technologies such as “free perspective” and “bullet time” were 
applied to let audience freely choose the viewing perspectives and enjoy freeze-frame fantastic moments.
• Adopted 5G backhaul video broadcast signals in the Olympic Games for the first time, helping Olympic Broadcast Services (OBS) achieve the 
first 5G-based event broadcast in the history of the Olympic Games.
• For the first time in the history of the Olympics, the INFO-AV system realised full cloud production, editing and processing, so that registered 
reporters around the world could watch the live broadcast, on-demand broadcast or playback of the press conferences through the system.
• The first large-scale deployment of the digital automatic processing platform of “Big Data + AI + computing”.
First-time full 5G 
coverage at Olympics venues and built gigabit venues with “the highest speed and maximum capacity in the history of the Olympic Games”.Applied for the /f_irst 
time “IPv6+” next-generation Internet technology and the WiFi 6 next-generation wireless access technologies at the Olympic Games.
The Broadcast 
Contribution Network (BCN) with the highest speed, the maximum bandwidth, the longest distance and the largest scale in the history of the Olympic Games, which greatly improved the ef/f_iciency and quality of broadcasting.For the /f_irst time 
5G+AI+AR technology was applied in the Olympic Games, to provide fully digital operational support that combined virtuality and reality.For the /f_irst time, an 
Optical Cross Connect platform (OXC) was deployed at the Olympic Games to offer 5G wireless /f_ixed voice service, and replace integrated cabling with 5G networks, effectively implementing the concept of Green Winter Olympics.For the /f_irst time 
permanent timing and scoring cables were laid in the Olympic Games to avoid duplicate investment. Serving the Olympic Games with smart applications and an extensive range of products and services
China Unicom fully leveraged new-generation communications technologies such as 5G, “IPv6+”, cloud computing, Big Data and AI to perfectly 
integrate technology and sports, and helped the Beijing Winter Olympics to achieve a number of “global firsts” and “historical breakthroughs” in 
multiple fields such as “smart competition, smart spectating, and smart participation”.
中國聯通「13579」戰略體系
Innovation-driven
developmentMarket-driven
developmentService and
brandingIntelligent
upgradeOperational
reformTalent-based
developmentDeeper
reform
Maintaining our
characteristicsProspering
with cultureEnhanced
managementFinancial
supportDual carbon
implementationCapital
empowermentRisk
controlCreating
conditionsStrategy
executionBig
connectivityBig
computingBig dataBig
applicationStrengthen and solidify Preserve and innovateNational team in the 
operation and service of digital information
infrastructure, key force in the establishment of Cyber Superpower,
Digital China and Smart Society, frontline troop in the integration and innovation of digital technologies
Integrate and open
Big securityCorporate 
positioning
Strategic 
development
Main 
responsibilities and main businesses
Innovation 
and reform
Guidance 
and support
Providing new experiences
such as high-de/f_inition livebroadcast, bullet time and multi-angles live broadcastCreating new experience suchas smart cloud broadcast,unmanned interview, intelligentInternet of Vehicles, remote /f_irst aid, etc.Built new applications suchas smart command anddispatch, smart venues,Wo Zhihu and smart materialmanagementBringing wonderful
viewing experience
to the publicNew concept of
digital intelligence and
ef/f_icient coordinationBreaking through 
physical distance with
innovative applicationsChina Unicom 5G·Empowering Smart Winter Olympics
Smart spectating Smart
competitionSmart participation
中國聯通
企業文化體系核心理念
體系
行為準則
體系行為高壓線
行為基本準則核心價值觀客戶為本，員工為根，
服務為上，創新為魂，奮鬥為榮企業使命聯通世界創享美好智慧生活企業願景客戶信賴的智慧生活創造者
經營管理理念 為客戶創造價值15
 Supporting the Olympic Games with smart technology and professional teams
Facing harsh natural environment such as extreme coldness, high mountain and strong wind, China Unicom insisted on network-wide coordination 
and overcame difficulties. Our headquarters, Beijing branch, Hebei branch, the five provinces around the Beijing Moat and the provincial branches where the 
international bureaus and satellite stations were located jointly contributed high-quality network service capabilities. We established a digital operation support system for the Winter Olympics network and a “1 + 5 + N” control system for the competitions, providing a full-system integrated support for the opening and closing ceremonies and various events of the Winter Olympics.
• During the Winter Olympics, a total of 257,000 personnel participated in communication support and 113,000 vehicles were dispatched across the 
country, successfully supporting 427 Winter Olympics events. Among which, more than 1,500 people worked in the support red line at Winter Olympics venues, more than 5,000 people directly participated in the major support initiatives of the Winter Olympics, and more than 30,000 people worked in network communication, network security, digitalisation and other support services.
• A “Digital Great Wall” for network and information security was built to provide a reliable digital protection for “Secure Winter Olympics”. Relying on 
cutting-edge technologies such as network security situational awareness, Big Data risk control and monitoring, artificial intelligence analysis, and automatic blocking, as well as an efficient and robust command and dispatch system, the Company ensured the secure operation of various Olympic network systems.
• According to the principle of “one venue, one policy”, 87 specialised plans were formulated, 49 large-scale drills were carried out in total, and all the 
Winter Olympics areas were protected by “double routing, double nodes and double power supplies”.
• We provided powerful and highly reliable network services which allowed on-site users to experience the ultimate network speed during the games, 
with the upload speed reaching 500Mbps, and the download speed reaching 1.5Gbps.
China Unicom Winter Olympics Telecommunication Technology Operation Command Centre (TTOC), 
the Intelligence Brain for Winter Olympics communication
China Unicom built a 5G intelligent 
Internet of Vehicles system covering an area 
of over 1 million square meters in Shougang Park. Taking advantages of cutting-edge technologies such as 5G, MEC and BeiDou, it demonstrated intelligent operation of scenarios such as unmanned retail, driverless transport and precise delivery. The vehicles were running smoothly and could avoid obstructions in a timely manner in case of unexpected road conditions. In the Beijing Winter Olympics Village, the three core “green technologies” of “5G + perception + positioning” empowered innovative unmanned cleaning, helping to build a 5G + smart Winter Olympics Village.
• Adopted the unmanned hybrid interview technology in the Olympic Games for the first time, which not only enabled real-time transmission and 
ensured the quality of interviews, but also met the requirements for pandemic prevention and control.
• The 5G public network intercom was used among all the Olympic stadiums in the three regions of Beijing and Zhangjiakou for the first time, 
improving the efficiency of event command and dispatch.
• Timely assistance was provided to skiers through 5G intelligent medical care in the Olympics for the first time, seeking to treat patients within the 
golden window.
• Level-4 unmanned shuttle bus, 5G unmanned torch transmission and other smart Internet of Vehicles services were provided at the Olympic Games 
for the first time, offering high-quality smart travel experience for the Beijing Winter Olympics.
• 5G-based smart pandemic prevention was provided for the first time at the Olympics. The Company independently developed a handheld smart 
pandemic prevention device called “WO Zhihu”, which improved the efficiency of event operation and management during the pandemic.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202116
On 4 February 2022, the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics was grandly opened at the National Stadium. China Unicom 
provided 5G + 4K/8K ultra-high-definition live broadcasting to bring a wonderful opening ceremony visual experience to 
the public, and met the connectivity requirements of nearly 40,000 visitors and performers. In addition to the full-scenario mobile video live broadcasting, IPv6+ technology was applied to the Winter Olympics for the first time, providing a good connectivity environment with one-click activation and plug-and-play for the media. Xinhua News Agency and other media achieved real-time transmission of on-site photos and videos of the opening ceremony through 5G network slicing.
With the highest standards, the strictest organization management, the most practical measures, the best services and the 
outstanding effects, China Unicom has been affirmed by the central leadership as for the all-out preparation and service support of the Winter Olympics. Thomas Bach, President of the International Olympic Committee, paid a visit to China Unicom’s major support team and praised that “China Unicom’s communication support team is a vibrant team. In addition, there were many breakthroughs in this Winter Olympics, especially the broadcasting and communication technology”. Yiannis Exarchos, the Chief Executive Officer of Olympic Broadcasting Service , mentioned that “This may be the best broadcasting infrastructure that I have experienced in the history of the Winter Olympics”. Athletes, reporters and staff from various countries also expressed high praise to China Unicom.
 Igniting national passion for winter sports with a smart image
Adhering to the development strategy of “North Ice, South Exhibition, West Expansion and East Progress” of national winter sports, China Unicom 
took practical actions to help achieve the goal of “300 million people participating in winter sports”. Through a series of activities such as the selection of 
“Winter Dream Ambassadors”, the “Smart Winter Olympics China Tour”, and the Winter Olympics franchise product business plan, the Company told the stories of the Winter Olympics and promoted the spirits of the Olympic Games, gathering the majestic power for the Winter Olympics. Focusing on the promotion themes of “China Unicom 5G Great Power”, “China Unicom 5G Empowers Smart Winter Olympics” and “China Unicom Trusted by the Winter Olympics”, the Company fully demonstrated its social responsibilities as a central state-owned enterprises and a pillar of the country, and promoted the core strength of central state-owned enterprises in technological innovation.
• During the period of the Winter Olympics, China Unicom was reported three times on News Broadcasts and 27 times on CCTV. It was also 
reported by several professional media, provincial and municipal local media and social media.
• The selection of China Unicom’s “Winter Dream Ambassadors”, which lasted for 4 years, has come to a perfect conclusion. A total of 2022 “Winter 
Dream Ambassadors” were recruited from more than 2,000 colleges and universities in 30 provinces across the country, and more than 2 million creative works were received, creating 17.4 billion views and nearly 300 million interactions, forming a wide social impact.
• We carried out a series of activities under the theme of “Smart Winter Olympics China Tour” to bring Olympic culture and winter sports 
experience to citizens in 16 cities including Beijing, Zhangjiakou, Shenyang, Taiyuan, Guangzhou and Haikou, so that the public can experience the passion and charm of winter sports.
• Taking advantages of China Unicom’s nationwide online and offline channels, the Company sold franchised products for the Winter Olympics 
in hundreds of its business outlets in more than 300 cities in 31 provinces across the country, so that people from the Greater Khingan in Heilongjiang province, Sanya in Hainan province, Ngari in the Tibet Autonomous Region could buy the lovely “Bing Dwen Dwen” and “Shuey Rhon Rhon”, letting them understand, experience and feel the Winter Olympics through China Unicom.
China Unicom “Winter Dream Ambassadors” campus activities China Unicom “Smart Winter Olympics China Tour”
Provided reliable communication support for the opening 
ceremony of the Winter OlympicsThe splendid moments of athletes from all over the world entering 
the stadium were transmitted through 5G high-definition video17
“Needs of the Country”Firmly Committed to
Carrying the Responsibility of
 the National Strategy With the 
in MindChina Unicom Sustainability Report 202118
China Unicom adhered to the people-centred value base and fundamental logic, and accelerated the construction of intelligent and 
comprehensive digital information infrastructure that is high-speed and ubiquitous, cloud-network integration, intelligent and agile, green and 
low-carbon, secure and controllable, so as to promote regional coordinated development, adhere to network information security, and help build a Cyber Superpower and Digital China.
 Building a Solid Foundation for Compliant Operation
China Unicom has always adhered to integrity in operation and compliance with laws and regulations, actively carried out law popularisation 
activities, popularised compliance knowledge and improved the compliance management system. China Unicom promoted the reform of the discipline inspection and supervision system, and further strengthened the supervision responsibility of the discipline inspection and supervision team by innovating the organisation mode and improving the system and mechanism. The anti-corruption work has achieved remarkable results.
 Promoting integrity and honesty
We built a supervision system and unswervingly upheld the upright conduct and discipline and conducted anti-corruption with the theme of 
promoting high-quality development. We improved the supervision mechanism, optimised the rules and regulations, promoted and standardised the informatisation of discipline inspection and supervision, enhanced the ability of supervision and discipline execution, and created a clean and honest atmosphere.
•
 The Company improved the 
corporate supervision system, 
established and improved the supervision system and mechanism for key personnel, key areas and key links around “top leaders” and leadership, young cadres, grassroots governance, and “beyond eight hours of office hours” behavior, etc. The Company built a smart discipline inspection and supervision platform to strengthen the active, accurate and real-time supervision over the entire process of exercise of power.•
 Adhering 
to integrity management and compliance 
with laws and regulations, the Company achieved remarkable results in anti-corruption.
•
 The cumulative scale of 5G base stations reached
 
690,000 and 5G population coverage rate exceeded 60%. Total broadband ports reached 239 million and IoT connections exceeding 300 million.
•
 The 
total computing power of the whole network 
reached 350 PFLOPS, and the high-quality computing power bearing network with low latency was comprehensively upgraded.
•
 We provided communication support for major national
 
conferences and events such as the “Cloud Diplomacy” and the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics, and contributed digital intelligence to routine pandemic prevention and control.
•
 We continued to build an information optical channel
 
to serve the “Belt and Road” Initiative.Measures adopted in 2021
• To deepen the construction of rule of law and  
create a sound development ecosystem.
• To improve the breadth and depth of wireless
 
network coverage and accelerate 10G PON deployment. 
To expand the pre-coverage of commercial buildings in order to provide a leading experience.
•
 To 
accelerate the construction of green, intensive, 
secure and reliable computing infrastructure, and promote the construction of intelligent operation support system.
•
 To provide high-quality communication support
 
services, create a secure and harmonious network environment, and support scientific and technological pandemic prevention and smart pandemic prevention.
•
 To improve the intelligent network service capability
 
of one network around the world and support the new development of “Cloudification, Digital and Intelligence Enablement” for thousands of industries around the world.Actions to be taken in 2022
Coverage of anti-corruption 
training more than
495,000 
person-timesCoverage rate of anti-corruption education activities for directors and employees reached
100 %19
• The Company carried out in-depth anti-corruption training, conducted regular interviews with cadres and took multiple measures to carry out disciplinary 
education. The Company carried out case notification on “non convergence and non-stop”, “shadow companies”, “shadow shareholders” and “non-compliant 
action beyond eight hours of office hours”, etc. since the 18th National Congress. The Company carried out routine warning education, covering more than 495,000 person-times, and anti-corruption education activities covering 100% of directors and employees.
•
 In order 
to prevent external risks of “Hunting”, the Company revised the “China Unicom Supplier Blacklist Management Measures”, optimised the 
identification procedures of supplier in blacklist and carried out the fourth batch of non-compliant “supplier blacklist” identification.
•
 Th
e Company organised and carried out professional line evaluation and inspection on integrity risk prevention and control. The Company promoted 
the implementation of prevention and control measures for 65 integrity risk points in 42 business matters in 8 key areas such as investment and construction, material procurement, marketing, and personnel selection and employment. The Company regularly carried out rectification through the case study, deeply rectified the problem of “relying on enterprises and squeezing enterprises”, and conducted special inspections on the problems of non-compliant commercial enterprises, so as to continuously improve the ability of integrity risk prevention and control.
•
 The 
Company persevered on rectifying the “four styles” problems, vigorously promoted the fine style of work, implemented the eight regulations of the 
central government and the spirit of the detail implementation rules. The Company regularly carried out special supervision and inspection on the “four styles” problems and included the “social circle”, “life circle” and “leisure circle” of management personnel into the scope of supervision. The Company notified typical cases at important nodes, promoted the formulation of implementation plans to reduce burden for the grassroots level, and continued to rectify the persistent problem of “mountain of paperworks and sea of meetings”. The corporate atmosphere continued to improve.
•
 The Company deepened inspection supervision and completed a new round of full coverage inspection. The Company carried out spec
ial inspection on 
personnel selection and employment, economic responsibility audit and financial compliance inspection, improved the quality and efficiency of supervision, and urged the implementation of rectification.
•
 The 
number of petition reports decreased by 11.3% year-on-year and declined for four consecutive years. The Company continuously consolidated the 
strategic results of anti-corruption, as a result the clean atmosphere of the Company continued to improve.
•
 The Company built a supervision system, promoted the reform of the discipline inspection and supervision system and formulated 
the “China Unicom 
“4+5+N” Political Supervision System Guidance Manual” and other rules and regulations. The Company improved the supervision mechanism for key personnel, key areas, and key links, promoted and standardised discipline inspection and supervision information, and supervised the ability to enforce discipline.
•
 For more information on the number of corruption cases and litigation outcome and so on, please go to the official website of t
he Central Commission for 
Discipline Inspection of the CPC and the National Supervisory Commission.
 Improving the level of compliance operation
China Unicom continued to deepen the construction of rule-of-law with governance improvement, operation compliance, management 
standardisation, law-abiding and integrity. The Company strengthened risk prevention and control, and continuously consolidated the foundation for high-quality development.
Law-abiding operation
China Unicom has established a comprehensive compliance management system of “compliance in full, in all region and in all aspects”. The 
Company revised and issued the “China Unicom Compliance Management Measures (v2.0)”, and formulated the eighth five-year plan (2021–2025) to 
carry out legal publicity and education, so as to promote the construction of the rule of law.
•
 The Company promoted the digital management and intensive operation of law popularisation work. The Company developed the Wo La
w 
popularisation platform and over 76,000 employees attended online learning. The Company organised various law popularisation activities, carried out special law popularisation activities such as “4.15” and “4.26”, etc. The Company actively promoted data security law and other laws and regulations, and personal information protection law, and won the Excellent Organisation Award issued by the National Law Popularisation Office.
•
 The 
Company popularised compliance knowledge and held nine sessions of “Legal Compliance Cloud Lecture”, highlighting the features of “cloud 
+ sharing” and “teaching + forum” with more than 73,000 people learning in total. The Company operated the WeChat public account, “Grow Wo with Legal Compliance”, to enrich reading experience.
•
 The Company actively promoted the digital transformation of contract management to guarantee the business integrity. The legal 
review rate of 
the Company’s economic contracts was 100%.
Risk prevention and control
China Unicom adhered to the goal of “strengthening internal control, preventing risks and promoting compliance” and continued to deepen the 
construction of risk management and internal control management system. The Company revised and published the “Administrative Measures for 
the Accountability of China United Network Communications Group Company Limited for Non-compliant Operation and Investment”, and continuously improved the digital level of risk prevention and control to effectively mitigate major systematic risks.
•
 The Board of Directors is responsible for improving the risk management and internal control management system, consisting the 
internal control 
and risk management committee, comprehensive management department and relevant professional functional management departments.
•
 Based on risk assessment, the Company adopted the COSO internal control framework and established a sound internal control mana
gement 
system based on the basic elements of control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information communication, supervision and control.
•
 The Company deeply promoted the full coverage of audit and established a mechanism to transfer of problem clues and handle feed
back. The 
Company completed special supervision such as “look back” and “I do practical things for the public” for accountability of non-compliant operation and investment, and recovered more than RMB52 million losses.
•
 The Company fully fulfilled its overall role of comprehensive budget management in resource allocation and established a perfor
mance-based 
communication system. It strengthened dynamic management and further mitigated operational risks.
•
 The 
Company improved the overseas risk prevention and 
control mechanism and formulated the “Level 4 Catalogue of Overseas Compliance Risks of International Companies (Trial Version)” to regularly carry out special inspections on overseas risks, and form closed-loop management. Focusing on risks in key areas such as the United States, Australia and Europe, the Company kept abreast of the latest developments and made every effort to ensure overseas compliance operations. Compliance training
8,010  timesNumber of employees trained 
in compliance
243,000
• Audit digital transformation case was selected as a typical experience of China Institute of Internal Audit
•
 China Unicom Digital Technology Co., Ltd. was awarded the AAA Integrity Level Certification by Beijing Security and Prevention 
Industry 
AssociationChina Unicom Sustainability Report 202120
 Opening Up Social Information Arteries
Facing the accelerated demands of digitalization, cyberization and intelligent transformation in various industries, China Unicom has firmly 
grasped the symbolic characteristics in the era of the information communication industry. It has built a new digital infrastructure, adhered itself to 
the measures of network information security, and consolidated a solid foundation of information channels for a rapid growth in the digital economy.
 Building a solid digital base
China Unicom deeply understands the strategic deployment about “accelerating the construction pace of new infrastructure such as 5G 
networks and data centers”. It has focused on building high-quality 5G networks, facilitated 5G IoT technologies evolution and advancement, and strengthened 5G and 4G networks synergy. The Company also deployed gigabit optical networks and improved the end-to-end connection capability of IPv6, enhancing the basic connections and connection efficiency comprehensively.
· Approve ESG planning
· Review ESG goals and 
progress
· Review and approve 
sustainability reports
· Review and approve other 
material ESG matters· Formulate ESG planning· Listen and deploy ESG work· Implement ESG strategy· Develop sustainability reports· Formulate other material ESG 
matters
· Ful/f_ill capital market 
responsibilities
· Conduct daily communication 
with investors· Compile ESG planning
· Formulate ESG management system· Coordinate and promote the ESG 
work of all departments of the headquarters, provincial branches and subsidiaries
· Prepare sustainability reports· Improving the ESG indicator system· Organise ESG training· Carry out assessments on 
outstanding ESG examples
· Conduct ESG research and 
exchange· Implement ESG tasks assigned by the Group
· Collect, compile and submit ESG information· Participate in the preparation of the Group's 
sustainable development report and topic research
· Implement major ESG projects of the Group· Carry out ESG practices with corporate characteristics· Communicate with stakeholders involved with respect 
to their own responsibilitiesOther departments of 
the headquarters
Corporate Development Department/Legal Department
A Share Company/Red Chip Company31 Provincial branches
SubsidiariesBoard of Directors
China Unicom Social Responsibility 
Guidance Committee
5G population coverage
exceeded 60 %
4G population coverage 
reached 95 %Broadband covered 450  million 
set of Residential properties
91,000 commercial buildings Over 300  million IoT connections
Volte coverage
reached 97.0 %The average 4G network downlink speed
was 37.3 Mbps, up by 6.6 % year-on-yearCoverage of mobile network in townships
reached 100 %
Coverage of mobile network in administrative
villages reached 93 %
Strengthening high-speed and ubiquitous basic connectionsChina Unicom promotes high-quality network development and connects thousands of households, thousands of buildings, thousands of 
enterprises, and thousands of scenarios with high-quality networks. It creates new experiences of digital work and life for customers and builds a solid digital base for high-quality economic and social development.
•
 Created a 5G boutique network with effective coverage, excellent experience, first-class capabilities and outstanding efficienc
y. New 
breakthroughs have also been made in the 5G network “co-build co-share” with a total number of 690,000 5G base stations. The Company has intensified the construction of 5G DAS and has continued to improve the deep coverage of 5G network. China Unicom and China Telecom jointly won the GSMA 2021 Asian Mobile Industry Outstanding Contribution Award.
•
 Created 
a premium gigabit broadband network connecting thousands of households. The Company constructed 16.84 million broadband 
ports, which yielded a total number of 239 million ports with an average network access speed of 252Mbps, increasing by 40% as compared to 2020.
•
 Created a premium government and enterprise network with excellent quality and intelligent security. The 5G industry private ne
twork 
system 2.0 (5G private network PLUS) has achieved a breakthrough in three spectrums: network, industry, and service. China Unicom and Huawei have been jointly awarded the “Best Solution Award for ICT China Innovation” by the project “China Unicom All-Optical Infrastructure Network” at the ICT China High-level Forum 2021.
•
 Created a ubiquitous and intelligent IoT network with high/low speed synergy. The Company independently developed the Yanfei-zh
ilian 
Intelligent Connection Management Platform, and Yanfei-gewu Device Management Platform. It developed 5G + AIoT core capabilities through softwarerization of network, software-hardware integration and intelligent upgrade of hardware. The Company was rated as one of the top ten chip/module enterprises in China’s 5G strength ranking in 2021 by the Communications World Omnimedia.
•
 Continued to push forward network advancement. The Company comprehensively promoted the construction of SDN, cloudification and
 
virtualization of the network. Its network SDN maintained a leading position in the industry, while comprehensively deploying the next generation Internet based on IPv6. IPv6 accounted for 34.57% of mobile network data traffic. It also vigorously promoted the Beidou application. The network innovative products also exhibited excellent performances.21
 Strengthening smart computing engine
The Company implemented the national strategy of “Eastern Data and Western Computing”, built green, centralised, secure and reliable 
computing infrastructure. It accelerated the deployment of national hub nodes, and created a new computing power network with national 
integration, intelligence and agility. It developed Unicom Cloud with cloud-network integration, security, reliability, exclusive customisation, and multi-cloud collaboration, which promoted customer-oriented service model innovation, and empowered the development of digital economy.
•
 The Company formed a cloud-network-edge integrated “5 + 4 + 31 + X” new IDC system. The total computing power of the whole netw
ork 
has reached 350 PFLOPS, the computing power scale reached 11.38 million vCPU cores, with a total storage capacity of 959PB. There were about 300 shared MEC nodes. It started to offer one-stop fulfilment of cloud-network resources.
•
 The Company comprehensively upgraded its low-latency high-quality computing power carrier network. Building on integrated compu
ting-
network architecture, it constructed service-oriented computing power networks, such as premium public Internet, multi-cloud ecological premium industrial Internet and smart metropolitan area network. It was shortlisted in the 2020 Data Intelligent Industry “Computing Power 20” by Computing Power Think Tank and was named a Cool Vendor with the best scenario implementation ability.
•
 The Company created Unicom Cloud with a unified technological base and PaaS platform. It also implemented the PaaS integration 
project to 
support the rapid and standardised access to multiple PaaS services such as database, security components, AI atomic capabilities, and blockchain, etc.
•
 The Company built a multi-cloud cooperation ecosystem with Alibaba, Huawei, H3C, VMware, Unicom Cloud, Os-easy, Tencent, etc. t
o 
enrich the number of heterogeneous cloud merchants and create “multi-cloud management + Unicom Cloud + X” hybrid multi-cloud solution.China Unicom Liaoning branch continued to improve its network coverage. In 2021, it 
achieved continuous coverage of 5G networks in urban areas and county-level cities. While 
meeting the needs of 5G hotspots in the developed towns in key cities, the Company achieved in-depth 5G indoor access at transportation hubs such as airports, subways and high-speed railway stations. It provided high-speed 5G services in key areas such as campuses, hospitals, industrial parks, government and enterprises units.
Improving intelligent and precise network experience
The Company has continued to orient itself towards users’ perception. It continued to optimise the network, improve the capability of operating platforms, 
strengthen the construction of fulfilment system to significantly improve network quality, and maintain a leading position in the industry in terms of low latency network.
•
 With reliance on platform capabilities such as network AI, wireless and broadband network digital operation, etc., the Company 
implemented a full-
scenario digital transformation of broadband network in terms of “planning, construction, maintenance, optimization and marketing” so as to accomplish automation and intelligent improvement of network operation quality. The maturity of the network AI platform has also reached an international leading level. In intelligent operation and maintenance, it achieved breakthroughs in connected network issue diagnosis and intelligent operation.
•
 The Company strengthened the construction of 5G fulfilment and operation system and provided end-to-end automatic activation an
d management 
capabilities for 2B network slicing products. It also promoted 100% online and centralised workflows in 5GC regions, and improved the efficiency of inter-provincial collaboration and regional operation.
•
 T
he Company also strengthened independent capacity building in the network department and implemented various network independent operation 
measures such as “self-operation, self-construction, self-maintenance, self-optimization and self-repair”. It improved the training system, with the certification rate of intelligent network engineers exceeding 66%, and introduced talents such as expert-level system architects.
•
 The Company 
upgraded the network quality 
and implemented “serving the community with practical impact” and “a hundred days of tackling” actions. It was ranked first in the industry in terms of the satisfaction level of fixed network quality by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. It also kept its first place in The industry for installation and maintenance services. The timely fulfillment rate of broadband installation and maintenance requests increased to 99.62%.
•
 The 5G users penetration rate continued to
 
increase. In 2021, there were a total of 1,645 complaints-driven construction tasks, and 1,623 of them were completed, with a completion rate of 98.7%. The number of customer complaints from construction regions dropped by 98%.
•
 The 
Company built a low latency network, 
and optimised the China 169 backbone network in key directions, with the average latency of the whole network reaching below 29ms, maintaining its leading position in the industry.People experiencing the 5G network at 
Dalian North Railway Station
China Unicom Chongqing Branch drives 
network value enhancement with customer 
satisfaction. Using on the deep neural network algorithm, the Company established a network health model to assist the identification of network problems, thereby improving the efficiency of handling network complaints by 30%. The Company also targeted high-perception customers through the model, and implemented word-of-mouth scale-up operation, which also increased customer perception by 0.19 points.
China Unicom Sustainability Report 202122
Data Storage Cloud Smart Video CloudProprietary
Controllable CloudSmart Chain
Collaborative CloudSensing IoT Cloud Hybrid Cloud 5G Edge Cloud
China Unicom Guangdong Branch promoted cloud-network 
integration and comprehensively launched nine key initiatives in four 
major areas, namely ubiquitous connectivity, differentiated service, online service and security capacities. It created a 10ms latency circle in Guangdong Province and a 4ms latency circle in the Greater Bay Area. Compared with traditional network solutions, users’ cloud latency was reduced by up to 10ms, which strongly supported the cloudification deployment and digital transformation in medical and other industries.
Cloud and Network Integrated Digital Infrastructure of  
China Unicom Guangdong Branch
 Building Cyber Security Lines of Defense
Adhering to the overall national security concept, the Company thoroughly implemented the Cyber security Law, the Data Security Law, the Personal 
Information Protection Law, the Regulation on Protecting the Security of Critical Information Infrastructure, and other laws and regulations. It has built 
a network security and data security protection system for the digital era, and also formed the “No. 1 safety shield” as the “fist choice of the country, government and people” in the digital economy.
Enhancing network security capabilityChina Unicom regards the maintenance of network information security as an important mission of conscientiousness and responsibility. It built a 
network security protection system with complete functions and leading capabilities. It also integrated security development into all areas and the processes of the Company’s development, so as to strive to improve its security protection capability.
•
 The Company improved its capabilities in the governance of public internet network security threats. The monitoring and process
ing capacity 
of 5G SA core network increased by 9.12Tbps, and the broadband Internet monitoring and processing capacity expanded to 29.88Tbps, which effectively mitigated the attack and impact of Botnets, Trojan virus and malware.
•
 The Company maintained the security of Internet of Things by continuously improving the basic risk model to accurately identify
 suspected 
risk cards. As a result, there were no terrorism-related or fraud-related cases in the year.
•
 The Company improved active security warning capability, with the DDoS protection capability reaching over 8T. It built network
 security 
situational awareness, asset security management and other platforms to reduce hidden security threats.
•
 The Company successfully completed various network security support for major national events and was commended by the Ministry
 of 
Industry and Information Technology.
Combating telecom network fraudChina Unicom resolutely implemented the national requirements for combating and controlling telecom network fraud. It upheld orderly communication, 
protected personal data privacy, and safeguarded the legitimate rights and interests of users. There was no major information security incident in the year.
•
 The 
Company carried out in-depth management of fraudulent calls, harassing call and spam messages. It strengthened source control and 
implemented card-breaking operation 2.0. It carried out “cat-fighting” action and assisted the police in arresting 2,767 suspected criminals, and seizing 2,691 sets of equipment such as GoIP, which was commended by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.
•
 The Company strengthened data security control and personal information protection, carried out special rectification on APP in
fringement of 
users’ rights and interests and improved data security support capabilities, with a sensitive data identification rate of 80.54%.
•
 The Company revised the China Unicom User Privacy Policy, the China Unicom Customer Service Agreement and other rules and regul
ations. 
It also formulated the China Unicom Children’s Personal Information Protection Policy and Guardian Notices to strictly regulate user real-name registration, maintain user information security and protect children’s personal information.•
 Based 
on the cloud computing dual-engine core base, the Company created integrated and digitally competitive cloud products, and 
upgraded the performance and diversity of generic cloud products such as computing, storage and network.
•
 The Company built an open and intelligent scheduling system for cloud-network-edge integration capabilities. It continued to de
epen the 
construction of cloud computing support systems. It obtained more than 30 software copyrights and patents, and was rated as advanced level in the 
first batch of cloud-network integration comprehensive capability evaluations by the China Academy of Information and Communications Technology.23
China Unicom Tianjin Branch categorised fraudulent calls, harassing calls, 
and spam messages into “bad information”. It built a platform for managing bad 
information to centralise the control of risk numbers. In 2021, it optimised and adjusted 11 high-risk areas, 51 high-risk base stations, 9 TAC codes of abnormal equipment such as GoIP. It helped the police to detect and remove three GoIP bases, arrest 8 suspected criminals, and seize 4 fraud-related equipment. It combatted bad information from the source, and the achievement received special commendation by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.
China Unicom Anhui Branch has established an anti-harassment/fraud Big Data system that can automatically detect and process harassing and 
fraudulent calls. It detects 150–200 calls a day. Combined with GoIP data, it enables joint operation with the police by providing accurate fraud clues. In 2021, the Company has helped remove 17 fraud bases, arrest 73 fraud suspects and seize more than 3,000 phone cards, which received wide recognition from the Anhui Provincial Public Security Department and Anhui Provincial Communications Administration.
Bad Information Management Platform of China Unicom Tianjin Branch
Innovating on security products and services
The Company has strengthened the supply of security products and services in the aspect of network, cloud, application, data etc. It has 
created Unicom Cloud Shield, password, situational awareness, security island chain and other products. It also established Unicom security operation service platform, optimised the ecological deployment in network information security, and built a strong network and information security barrier for thousands of industries.
•
 The Company independently developed 9 password products which passed the commercial inspection. Amongst the products, 3 of them
 
were included in the catalogue of information technology innovation. It jointly built the “State-owned CA” business brand with the Information Centre of the SASAC to achieve the implementation of benchmark cases.
•
 The network situational awareness product entered pre-commercial trial and was named an “Advanced Unit” by the Ministry of Publ
ic 
Security.
•
 In the “Blooming Cup” 5G Application Collection Competition held by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the Co
mpany’s 5G 
security products and solutions won the first prize and multiple awards.
•
 The credit information service platform for trusted enterprises, privacy computing, data security and other products and servic
es were 
awarded the “Galaxy Award” by the Committee for the Advancement of Big Data Technological standard of the CAICT.
 Polishing our Brand as the First Choice of Major Communications Support
China Unicom always puts people’s live and safety in the first place. It contributed to the prevention and control of the COVID-19 pandemic with 
data and intellectual power. It provided communication support for major activities, devoted itself in rescue missions and disaster relief, and fulfilled its mission with actions.
 Making every effort to fight the pandemic
In 2021, the pandemic situation remained severe and complex. Local confirmed cases and people with no symptoms of COVID-19 were found 
in many places, the lines of prevention and control were not slackened. China Unicom worked closely with the pandemic prevention and control departments at all levels, and leveraged the edges of communication enterprises to fight the “pandemic” intelligently with information empowerment and provide strong support for regular pandemic prevention and control.
Building a smart wall for pandemic preventionChina Unicom continued to and leverage its information services edges in Big Data, artificial intelligence, 5G, etc. It developed digital 
applications such as travel inquiry system, cloud video conference, Unicom smart community, cloud filling, etc., to fully support the precise prevention and control of the pandemic.
•
 Utilizing the unique edges such as multi-source, massive, open and strong integration of China Unicom’s Big Data, the Company o
ptimised 
the national travel card inquiry service system structure, and supported 4.2 billion “health code” inquiries across the country, providing over 8 billion times of service cumulatively, and effectively supporting the analysis and assessment on pandemic prevention and control as well as resumption of work and production.•
 The 
Company enhanced the public awareness of information security and promoted information security knowledge through various 
channels. It provided overseas incoming call alert services. Throughout the year, 565 million alert text messages and 843 million security alert group messages were sent, which were recognised by users.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202124
In January 2022, another wave of COVID-19 pandemic occurred in Tianjin. 
Approximately 14 million people completed nucleic acid testing within 24 
hours. Citizens generally commented that the speed of testing was improving. China Unicom Tianjin Branch applied 5G slicing technology and provided QoS support for the work phones of pandemic prevention personnel with segregated wireless network resources. In the meantime, it rapidly developed a nucleic acid sampling and testing platform to ensure the stable and efficient operation of a large amount of data. The front-line workers could better experience the charm of computing-network integration. Hi-tech pandemic prevention service helped Tianjin to achieve win-win in pandemic prevention and control and the resumption of work and production.
In 2021 winter, facing another wave of sudden outbreak of the pandemic 
in Xi’an, Shaanxi Province, China Unicom Xi’an Branch quickly responded to the 
challenges. The communications support team were standing by around the clock. It strengthened the business support for 901 key areas and units, such as hospitals and nucleic acid testing points. It also provided high-tech pandemic prevention products to facilitate smart prevention. More than 4 million pandemic prevention welfare messages were sent to the general public, and protection knowledge was also promoted through the production of pandemic prevention ringtone reminders, startup pop-up screen reminders, and 5G video ringtones. It deployed a large amount of pandemic prevention resources to ensure the health and safety of employees and workplaces and combat the pandemic scientifically.
China Unicom Tianjin Branch applied 5G slicing 
to support rapid nucleic acid testing• Th e Company developed the Beijing Expressway Identification Checking System, which shortened the travelling time per vehicle from 3 
minutes to 20 seconds, and completely solved the problem of queuing to enter Beijing.
•
 In 
order to solve the difficulty in holding meetings during the pandemic, the Company deeply looked into the needs of central government 
agencies and small and medium enterprises at all levels, and provided meeting support to them by introducing the Unicom Cloud Video system. 
Throughout the year, the Company supported more than 24,000 meetings and provided 38 times of major meeting support services to the central government agencies.
•
 The Company supported pandemic prevention and control in local communities. Catering for the visitor registration of communitie
s, nucleic 
acid testing and monitoring of people flow, the Company developed products such as Unicom Smart Community and Cloud Filling, serving 59 cities in 18 provinces with 41.40 million person-times of services in total.
Ensuring smooth communication servicesFacing the cases in Liaoning, Anhui, Guangdong, Guangxi, Shaanxi, Tianjin and other places, the Company made good use of its network 
advantages, acted in unison and actively mobilised its branches and subsidiaries to participate in the local communication service support, so as to safeguard pandemic prevention and control.
 Fulfilling Responsibilities in Providing Communications – Support for Major Events
China Unicom adheres to the concepts of “carefulness, focus, trust, excellence and intelligence” in communication support. It strives to achieve 
the highest standard, the strict organization, the most practical measures, the best services and the best effects. In 2021, the Company provided 
communication support for major national conferences and events such as the National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference and the “Cloud Diplomacy”. With its excellent results of “zero mistake, zero error and zero complaint”, the Company was fully affirmed by the superior units and polished its golden brand as the “chief provider of major communications support”.
“Cloud Diplomacy” communication supportWith regular pandemic prevention and control, “cloud diplomacy” has 
become the major channel for national and institutional leaders to communicate with the world’s leaders and international organisations. In 2021, the Company successfully completed the communication support for 192 “cloud diplomacy” of central leaders and 31 major events including the China International Import Expo. It ensured network security with Unicom Cloud Shield, anti-D cleaning, domain name resolution and monitoring system, etc. The Company made outstanding contribution to “tell China’s stories and spread China’s voices” in the current complex situation, and contributed China Unicom’s power to a new chapter of Chinese diplomatic relations in the new era.25
 Devoting to rescue and disaster relief
With the unpredicted weather and natural disasters, China Unicom insists to make the best efforts. At every critical moment, the company 
strives to stay at the front line of communications support and secure its network defense line.
Establishing a sound flooding control system
In response to flooding disasters, China Unicom made early deployment and revised its emergency communication support plan. It has 
established a robust the cloud-network collaborative emergency responsive system, which could adapt to the regional system, platform, centralisation and cloud resources to enhance its communication support capability and emergency response efficiency. The Company carried out inspection on hidden loopholes in advance, and organised 1,372 emergency drills throughout the year so as to ensure the reliability of the operation.
•
 The Company carried out “Thousands of Miles Red Journey with Ingenuity Network” campaign. Communication fleets carried China
 
Unicom’s mission of “no absence at major moments” and represented the highest level of major communication support, which lasted for 38 days spanning approximately 4,000 kilometers.
Dare to bear difficulties and challengesWe carried out flood prevention and rescue work on the front line to ensure communication by riding wind and waves. In 2021, in the face of 
severe floods in Shanxi, Shaanxi, Henan and Shandong, as well as earthquakes in Sichuan and Qinghai, China Unicom was not afraid of difficulties and engaged in flood prevention and disaster relief with multiple measures. During the year, it dispatched emergency communication support 695 times, disaster relief personnel 134,000 person-times, rescue vehicles 47,000 vehicle times, emergency equipment 10,000 set-times, and 370 million emergency SMS.
Rescue personnel
134,000  person-times
In July 2021, in the wake of “720” heavy rainstorms in Henan, China Unicom 
Henan Branch gathered everyone together in such critical moment. Everyone strived 
to become more mature in this difficult time and moved forward in the storm. Our staff rushed out to the flood to repair the Jinghanguang optical cable. Veterans insisted to stay in the front line amidst their illness and worked hard for ten days and nights to guide the boats through the waters. In the tests and challenges posed by the floods, China Unicom united its efforts and mobilised rescue teams from 15 provinces to aid Henan and contribute to flood relief. They were warmly welcomed by the local residents. The Company received a letter of thanks from the Henan Provincial Party Committee and Henan Provincial Government, as well as more than 100 letters of gratitude and commendation from provincial units and municipal and county governments.
On 22 May 2021, a 7.4-magnitude earthquake occurred in Maduo County, Guoluo 
Prefecture, Qinghai Province. China Unicom Qinghai Branch assembled an emergency 
response team, overcame difficulties such as cold weather, hypoxia, and severe aftershocks, and headed to the disaster area. It set up a hotline for family search and reporting safety, and added 10,010 Tibetan-speaking customer service staff. During the earthquake relief period, of the Company dispatched 14 earthquake relief teams consisting of 81 people, 28 vehicles for 98 times, and more than 100,000 earthquake relief welfare messages to the users in Guoluo Prefecture.
China Unicom Hebi Branch in Henan Province united to 
guard the lifeline of communication
 Serving Coordinated Regional Development
The Company smoothed the domestic and international dual circulation, implemented the national strategy of coordinated regional 
development, accelerated the construction of a digital pilot demonstration area, promoted the coordinated development of domestic and overseas 
markets, responded to the Belt and Road Initiative, and fulfilled its responsibilities as a global corporate citizens.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202126
 Serving the Belt and Road Initiative
China Unicom firmly grasped the new development pattern of “building the domestic circulation as the main body and facilitating the mutual 
promotion of domestic and international dual circulation”. It identified new changes, new space and new opportunities accurately, and strived to 
promote the edges of global cloud-network integration and cloud service capabilities. It implemented the “Belt and Road” initiative, and promoted the construction of digital Silk Road through cooperative development and digital transformation innovation.
Establishing the Digital Silk RoadChina Unicom deeply implemented the Belt and Road Initiative and firmly promoted the construction of the Belt and Road Digital Silk Road. It 
upheld innovation-driven development to provide high-quality digital information services for customers and the public along the Belt and Road. The Company insisted on cooperative development, gathered core companions along “the Belt and Road” integrated resources and fulfilled in an agile manner.
•
 Company continued to build an optical information
 
channel. The Company had established 5 international network management centers overseas, and had more than 130 overseas access nodes, which covered more than 80 countries and regions. The international Internet external connection bandwidth reached 4.85T. Cumulative investment along the “Belt and Road” exceeded RMB2,800 million, and the capacity of the “Belt and Road” submarine cable increased to 26.9T and the capacity of the “Belt and Road” cross-border terrestrial cable increased to 20.1T. In 2021, three new “Belt and Road” network nodes were built.
•
 The company has set up 30 branches around the world,
 
half of which are located along the Belt and Road, offering high-quality digital services for “out-going” enterprises. Targeting key industries, such as industrial manufacturing, finance, government media, transportation and logistics, energy, commercial retail and TMT, the Company created 23 “Belt and Road” international express routes and achieved global coverage of SD-WAN light-load products. Cloud interconnection service covered 40 resources pools of 10 overseas cloud providers, offering to customers scenario-based solutions.
•
 Provided product discounts for countries along the Belt
 
and Road. Tariffs were reduced to low-price area in 95 counties and regions.
•
 Continued to strengthen the construction of “Belt and
 
Road” companions, and actively carried out ecological cooperation such as multi-cloud platform, network and information security, supply chain, system integration and smart city, privileges. 5G NSA was activated in 21 outbound countries and 31 inbound countries. The Company has established long-term partnerships with more than 300 international carriers and has over 120 ICT global partners.
•
 Actively contributed to the trades between China and
 
Africa and South African pandemic prevention and control. It served the ministerial video conference between China and Africa, increased the investment in South Africa, and participated in the pandemic prevention and control related meetings organised by the Department of Commerce of the Embassy of South Africa.
Awarded with the “Asia Regional Operator of the Year”, “Best Cloud Innovation 
Operator” and “Best Mobile Operator of the Year” in the 2021 Carrier Community 
Global Awards
Achieving seamless network connection 
when the China-Laos Railway passes through the tunnel Promoting the development of classified policies
The Company facilitated domestic circulation, implemented major national strategies and regional coordinated development strategies. It also 
optimised the regional resource allocation and capital deployment and actively integrated into regional coordinated development. The Company promoted the coordinated development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and continued to promote the construction of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei integrated network with the sharing of resources, such as data centers. The Company promoted the development of the Yangtze River Delta integration and strengthened the collaborative innovation of industrial system. Furthermore, it facilitated the construction of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area by accelerating the application innovation in smart medical care, smart transportation, smart energy and other fields  to promote healthy industry development. The Company drove the high-quality development of the Yangtze River Economic Belt and the Yellow River Basin, and promoted universal social livelihood services. The Company accelerated the development of the three provinces in Northeastern China so as to foster balanced development. It also strengthened the construction of Hainan Free Trade Port and Chengdu-Chongqing region, thereby improving the efficiency of resource utilisation and contributing to the construction of beautiful China.27
Conscientiously providing excellent cross-border services
Relying on China Unicom Global, the Company strives to become the “value creator of international digital services trusted by customers”. It 
has established a global customer service system, provides efficient and reliable global end-to-end integrated information services, and provides global voice message and data services.
•
 In order to meet the personalised demand of customers for express lines, the Company launched in total 55 express lines and ach
ieved rapid 
fulfilment. In Hong Kong, targeting household demands, the Company provided multi-user data sharing plan and smart home product series. It provided one-stop communication solutions for corporates. In response to the demand for small bandwidth, it provided AS4837 IPT Hong Kong node small bandwidth products. For financial industry, it provided security products and services such as Unicom Cloud Shield.
•
 During the COVID-19 pandemic, to let users use data at ease during travel, the Company increased the data allowance without pri
ce increase 
for 126 popular outbound international roaming destinations, reduced the data tariff for 35 destinations, provided small data bundle products for 23 destinations. In 2021, the data tariff of outbound international roaming decreased by 11.26% year-on-year, and data roaming covered 249 countries and regions, including 23 countries and regions with 5G network international roaming.
•
 The Company served the Tokyo Olympics by helping the live broadcast of China Sports and other media platforms to ensure the hig
h-quality 
coverage of the events.
•
 In 
Hong Kong, the Company officially provided 5G services. It helped prevent and control the pandemic by cooperating with the government to 
promote the “Leave Home Safe” APP and with Xiaomi Corporation to provide mobile devices for the elderly at low prices for the installation of “Leave Home Safe” APP. To better prepare for the quarantine-free re-opening of border between Mainland China and Hong Kong, the Company gave out “one-card with two numbers” services. It developed and promoted convenient services such as free with health code and worry-free cross-border life privileges.
Carrying out compliance and integrity managementRelying on China Unicom Global, the Company operates in compliance with laws and regulations overseas. The Company has established a 
sound corporate governance structure, strictly complies with domestic legal and regulatory requirements, and submits external audit reports and pay taxes in a timely manner. Its integrity management was recognised by international awards.
•
 The Company continued to improve its overseas compliance management system and updated the compliance manual of overseas operat
ing 
companies on a rolling basis. It organised and carried out a number of risk inspections and held 13 compliance training sessions with more than 3,000 participants, enhancing employees’ awareness of risk prevention.
•
 In 2021, there were no incidents of dishonesty, violation of laws and regulations and disorderly competition, nor were there an
y incidents 
involving infringement of rights of indigenous people and commercial bribery.
Implementing local responsible operationUnder the principle of “one regime, one system and one group”, the Company continued to optimise its agile and smart supply chain, actively employed 
local employees, strictly abided by the local market order, business rules, social customs and cultural habits, and strived to build a mutually beneficial and win-win development community.
•
 The 
Company integrated its “globalised” supply chain, carried out local cooperation management in different regions and categories, strictly 
reviewed procurement plans, stepped up scenario-based procurement, and ensured the equipment provided by suppliers were energy-saving, environmentally friendly and safe. Local procurement rate (including Hong Kong headquarters and overseas) reached 94.59%.
•
 The Company continuously improved the greenness of communication network infrastructure, further promoted energy conservation a
nd carbon 
reduction, prevented projects from causing negative impact on the local areas, and protected the local ecological environment. The Company won the Merit Award of the 2020 HKAEE Environmental Excellence Award in Hong Kong.
•
 The Company focused on the introduction of local talents, actively recruited the graduates from Hong Kong in 2021, and launched
 an internship 
program with the Henry Business School of the University of Reading in the United Kingdom, which received positive feedback from both the teachers and students locally. As of the end of 2021, China Unicom Global had a total of 896 employees, including 761 overseas employees and 289 overseas female employees. Currently, there are no local employees among the senior management.
•
 I
n strict accordance with the legal requirements 
in the employment location, the Company safeguards the legitimate rights and interests of local employees. It has formulated a remuneration and welfare system respecting local customs. It formulated differentiated monetary subsidies and actively organised recreational activities and welfare publicity, etc., fulfilling its social responsibility of caring local employees with practical actions. It was awarded “Green Office Award Scheme” and “Healthy Workplace” certifications by World Green Organisation, and recognised as a “Good MPF Employer” by the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Authority of Hong Kong.
•
 Th
e Company cares for female employees and fully 
supports “Breastfeeding Friendly Workplace”, and obtained “Breastfeeding Friendly Workplace” certification from UNICEF HK.
Merit Award of the 2020 HKAEE Environmental Excellence Award in Hong Kong
China Unicom Sustainability Report 202128
In 2021 Dragon Boat Festival, China Unicom Global 
Limited (“CUG”) participated in the caring visits to the elderly 
living alone organised by the Hong Kong Chinese Enterprises Association, bringing lucky bags and blessings to the elderly living alone in Shatin, New Territories.
Over the years, CUG has participated in the Hong Kong charity bazaar named “Handicapped Youth Cookies Gift for Love” organised by the Hong 
Kong Federation of Handicapped Youth to help the Hong Kong Federation of Handicapped Youth, Pei Ho Counterparts, the Parent’s Association of Pre-school Handicapped Children and other organizations for the underprivileged.CUG participated in the “Food Angel Day” activity 
organised by Food Angel to sort and process surplus food ingredients. 30 boxes of food ingredients with a total weight of 490kg were recycled to prepare for hot meals and food packs, offering warmth and care to people who are in need in the society.
• The Company actively participated in various activities organised by local associations, improved its overseas news and public opinion monitoring system, 
and maintained constructive communication with local communities and Chinese enterprises. As the leader unit of the Digital Economy Working Group (Chinese) of 
the BRICS Business Council, China Unicom deepened the research and exchange cooperation in the digital economy, in order to promote practical cooperation among the working group members.
Fulfilling overseas social responsibilityChina Unicom actively participated in overseas charity activities, and promoted the spirit of love, mutual assistance and care for the community. 
It also carried out activities such as food saving, environmental protection and care for vulnerable groups in order to contribute to the society and fulfill its overseas social responsibilities.
29
Devoted to 
Shouldering
and Firmly Fulfilling Obligations in Economic Development“Corporate           Responsibilities”
China Unicom Sustainability Report 202130
 Boosting the Development of Digital Economy
As an integrator of information and communication technologies and services, China Unicom gave full play to the magnification, superposition 
and multiplication of digital technologies in economic development. For supply chain, vertical industries, government affairs, people’s livelihood 
and other fields, it cultivated and developed digital application services with certain scale and created application products in the field of industrial integration, sailing in the main channel of digital economy at full strength. It empowered the transformation and upgrade of various industries, and built the “No. 1 supplier of digital services” for the digital economy.
 Accelerating Industry Integration
China Unicom is committed to accelerating industry integration. It expanded the innovative applications of industrial Internet and 5G + industrial 
Internet integration and deepened the innovative application of key vertical industries such as “smart transportation”, achieving the replication and scale expansion of standardised industry products.
Industrial InternetChina Unicom’s industrial Internet has formed eight industry solutions, including “5G + smart mine solutions”, “5G + smart steel solutions”, “5G 
+ smart home appliance solutions”, “5G + smart power solutions” and “5G + smart car solutions”, covering more than 10 industrial categories and more than 2,000 benchmark projects, forming a large-scale development model of leading enterprises plus industry clusters.The development of digital information infrastructure and the iterative innovation of digital technology let people enjoy greater sense of reward, happiness and 
security. China Unicom supports the development of digital economy, and empowers thousands of industries with digital intelligence. It continuously enriched the substance of communication products and services, and vigorously improved network quality and customer experience, in order to provide customers with satisfying high-quality communication services, and contribute to the development of digital economy. As a “pioneer” in the mixed-ownership reform of central state-owned enterprises, guided by the market-oriented allocation of production factors, the Company focused on the deep reconstruction of systems and mechanisms, accelerated the establishment of improved mechanisms to stimulate the vitality of micro entities, so that production relations can be better adapted to the development of productivity. The operating efficiency of the Company has been significantly improved. China Unicom regards its employees as its most valuable assets, attaches great importance to them and helps them achieve success. It provided its employees with a broad development platform and promoted holistic human capital development, forming a good atmosphere for the harmonious development of employees and the Company.
•
 Built core capabilities of cloud computing, Big
 
Data, Internet of things, AI, blockchain and security, and created industrial internet application products in some key industries.
•
 Launched 
special services to improve customer 
perception.
• Deepened the three-year action plan of state-
owned enterprise reform and created a process-oriented
 
organisation.
• Built a warm and harmonious labour relationship
 
by effectively protecting employees’ legal rights, caring for employees’ physical and mental health, and improving employees’ sense of reward.Measures adopted in 2021
• Comprehensively promoting the “Sailing” action  
plan for 5G applications, commercialisation of security products, focusing on key regions and industries, and creating “No. 1 supplier of digital services” of digital economy.
•
 S
etting the overall goal of “1 + N + 1”service 
system to create high quality service.
•
 Forming a long-term reform mechanism to promote 
transformation into a digital, intelligent, ecological and
 
platform-based enterprise.
• Deepening the reform of talent development
 
system and mechanism, so that employees could share the achievements of reform and development and grow together with the enterprise.Actions to be taken in 202231
China Unicom Jiangxi Branch took smart manufacturing of industrial internet as its key mission. Taking into account the leading textile and 
garment industry in Qingshan Lake District, Nanchang City, it innovatively created the 5G + smart factory benchmark project of Huaxing Knitting. 
It empowered the textile and garment industry with 5G + industrial internet, reduced the labour intensity of workers to embody humanistic care, improved the production efficiency and market competitiveness of enterprises, and promoted the development of the local modern textile industry cluster.
Relying on China Unicom Shanxi Branch, China Unicom Industrial Internet Company and other units, China Unicom completed the construction 
and empowerment application of a total of 170 5G networks in Datang Tashan and Majialiang, and established several joint laboratories with coal groups and universities to develop 5G intelligent applications in coal mines. In 2021, the Company constructed the Tashan Intelligent Dispatch Command Centre and completed the research and application of 5G technology in mines, smart video recognition platforms, wireless sensors and other tests. It realised the full coverage of 5G signals on the ground and underground, building a new mode of intelligent mining.
China Unicom Jilin Branch cooperated with Changchun FAW Group to build a 5G smart automobile factory pilot, providing 5G private network 
construction technology, equipment, services and other support for Fanrong factory of FAW Hongqi. It worked with partners to jointly verify 5G 
applications such as high-speed mobile monitoring of overhead cranes, C2C control and computer vision AI quality control, so as to provide support for the digital, intelligent and flexible manufacturing of the factory.
China Unicom (Tianjin) Industrial Internet Research Institute focused on vehicle and road collaborative technology and vigorously promoted the 
implementation of smart transportation application scenarios. So far, it has successfully developed an application scenario for autonomous buses 
in Haihe Education Park, Tianjin. At the same time, it has established a “5G + Internet of Vehicles” application demonstration base, setting up a cooperation benchmark for “government, industry, education, research and application”, and driving the rapid development of the intelligent and connected vehicle industry.Intelligent transportation
China Unicom focused on information infrastructure construction, industry operation supervision and public travel services, etc. and created 22 
industry solutions such as intelligent expressways, intelligent ports, intelligent logistics and intelligent airports. It also executed 2 industry benchmark projects such as Sanya Yazhouwan Intelligent Transportation EPC Project. It served 80+ transportation and logistics customers across the country, continuously empowering the digital transformation of the transportation and logistics industry.•
 For key industries, industrial clusters and enterprises in the region, we built a Yundi industrial Internet platform to enable 
the visualised, 
predictable and intelligent management of industrial economy by local governments through the platform, providing support for government decisions.
•
 By providing a large amount of industrial Internet application resources to local enterprises, we promoted “cloudification and 
platform-
based upgrade” among enterprises and comprehensively improved the level of digitalisation; “Lianqing 5G Fully Connected Factory” realised the comprehensive interconnection of all production factors of manufacturing enterprises, improving the production management. It established a production data middle platform to process and standardise the management of data generated in the production process, realising unified standards of enterprise data interfaces and formats, providing efficient data services for factories, and unleashing the value of data.
Digital villageChina Unicom continued to empower rural infrastructure construction, rural governance model innovation, production mode upgrade, and 
lifestyle improvement by focusing on digital village and leveraging the advantages of digital technology. It built a “model digital village” according to local conditions. The digital applications deployed in rural areas have become a “new agricultural tool” to help rural revitalisation and a “good helping hand” to improve the quality of life of villagers.
In June 2021, China Unicom held a digital village promotion conference, officially launched the Digital Village Cloud Platform and its Digital 
Village brand, and released the China Unicom Digital Village White Paper and a Digital Village product manual to comprehensively serve the 
economic and social development of rural areas.Number of administrative villages served by 
China Unicom Digital Village Platform exceeded
153,000China Unicom Sustainability Report 202132
For rural governance, industrial upgrade and people’s livelihood improvement, China Unicom focused on the implementation of the “Four New Projects” 
and provided new digital application services with “cloud-network-edge-terminal-business integration”. It established a new informatisation paradigm 
that supported modern agriculture and the integrated development of urban and rural areas, contributing digital power and connected intelligence to rural revitalisation and letting the rural population enjoy digital benefits.
•
 Constructing new infrastructure for gigabit connection. 
Focusing on building the “One Cloud”, “Gigabit Network” and “Universal IoT”, 
we upgraded the “Gigabit Network”, promoted the “Smart Large Screen” and built the “Unmanned Farm”, promoting the construction of a new generation of information infrastructure in rural areas, and eliminating the digital divide between urban and rural areas. As of the end of December 2021, China Unicom Digital Village covered 153,000 administrative villages, serving 14,363,000 rural permanent residents.
•
 Implementing a new platform for rural governance. 
Focusing on the last mile of informatisation in rural areas, relying on the Digital Village 
Cloud Platform, the Company developed a large number of successful applications in rural organisations, online government affairs, village safety, village management and other solutions and services. It injected “smart genes” into basic governance and services to make rural governance more intelligent, granular and professional. By the end of December 2021, it has served over 153,000 administrative villages.
•
 Implementing new digital application services. 
The Company provided solutions for digital governance services, industrial services, 
livelihood services and local services, and acted as a digital technology service expert for farmers by implementing digital rural liaison stations and counselors.
•
 Implementing the new ecological project of “agriculture, rural areas and farmers” cooperation. 
The Company cooperated with various 
excellent partners to provide smart terminals, smart TVs to rural areas, financial subsidies, trade-in, direct supply and procurement of featured agricultural products, and special training for new farmers to accelerate the digital and intelligent transformation of agriculture, rural areas and farmers.
China Unicom vigorously carried out the construction of model digital villages in targeted villages, and actively developed a number of 
successful, influential and replicable demonstration projects which could be further promoted to other villages. Currently, 388 projects have been 
built.
China Unicom Guizhou Branch has achieved practical results in serving rural revitalisation. It sorted out more than 17,000 administrative 
villages in the province and selected 1,757 as the first batch of service areas to be promoted. It built four national demonstration digital villages, 
namely Guiyang Xifeng, Zunyi Yuqing, Bijie Qianxi and Bijie Jinsha, and three provincial demonstration digital villages, namely Zunyi Huamao, Anshun Shimen and Liupanshui Caoyuan. Focusing on key towns and key scenarios, the Company carried out four major revitalisation actions, namely “Digital Towns”, “Hundred Towns and Thousand Villages”, “Joint Construction” and “Supporting Spring Cultivation”, to drive marketing activities in villages and upgrade rural development models in innovative ways.
China Unicom Gansu Qingyang Branch cooperated with Zhaijiahe Township to build the 
first digital township platform in the city, so that the public can inquire policy information and 
handle various businesses online without leaving home.Baer Lake Town is a demonstration town for rural revitalisation in 
the Sichuan province. China Unicom Sichuan Branch conducted two-way mapping, dynamic interaction and real-time connection for the 20 km
2 
and 8 administrative villages in Baer Lake with due regard to its water characteristics. It applied digital twin technology to rural revitalisation, serving more than 20,000 villagers and approximately 7,000 tourists every day, creating a digital village model with the characteristics of Baer Lake.
Chairman Liu Liehong visiting the Digital Village Platform 
in Liuchang Township, Qingzhen CityContract signing of Digital Rural Workstation Xifeng County Shida Town Qianfeng
Village Project
New look of Baer Lake Town
33
 Deepening livelihood applications
China Unicom is committed to deepening livelihood applications and innovating on high-quality daily life services. It enriched innovative 
applications such as “smart culture and tourism, smart education, and smart medical care”, promoted inclusive services for people’s livelihood, and 
developed products such as 5G Messages, promoting the upgrade of new information consumption.
Smart culture and tourismLeveraging its Big Data, blockchain and AI technology capabilities and focusing on key areas such as industry supervision, scenic spot services 
and smart culture and museums, China Unicom created 11 solutions such as all-for-one tourism, smart scenic spot and smart culture and museums, serving more than 170 cultural and tourism management institutions at all levels, more than 200 scenic spots and more than 50 cultural and museums venues across the country, facilitating the digital transformation and upgrade of cultural tourism management, cultural tourism services and cultural tourism marketing.
China Unicom iCloud Wisdom Technology Co., Ltd. has developed a virtual experimental teaching service system that integrates cutting-
edge technologies such as AI, 3D and VR, and integrates modern information technology into the teaching and learning of theoretical knowledge of 
physics, chemistry, biology and science, as well as experimental operation and examination.
China Unicom Hainan Branch promoted the construction of a 5G + AI primary medical information platform covering all over 3,000 primary 
medical and health institutions in the province, innovatively creating a new model of 5G primary medical care in Hainan, comprehensively improving the diagnosis and treatment capabilities of primary medical and health institutions in the province. In 2021, 5G primary medical care services were provided to more than 250,000 people.Smart education
Focusing on key areas such as general education, high-vocational education and regional education management, China Unicom has built 22 
industry solutions such as China Unicom’s 5G future campus and China Unicom’s primary and secondary schools smart campus, and implemented 3 benchmark project cases such as the “Informatisation Project of the School of Experimental Sciences of The Open University of China”, serving 150+ education industry customers nationwide.
Smart medical careChina Unicom focused on key areas such as smart hospitals, smart health care and smart medical insurance, and developed six medical 
industry solutions, including China Unicom Smart Hospital, China Unicom 5G Smart Ward and China Unicom 5G Smart First Aid. The Company implemented benchmark projects such as 5G primary smart medical care in Hainan and 5G smart first aid in Ruijin Hospital, serving 100+ medical industry customers across the country. It continuously empowered the medical system reform and promoted the construction of a healthy China.
5G messagingChina Unicom completed the pre-commercial trial of 5G messaging and developed China Unicom Winter Olympics 5G messaging application. 
Currently, the number of 5G messaging users has exceeded 100,000. 5G messaging was put into pre-commercial trial across the country, with a total of 53 customers and 109 CSPs. The Company successfully held the “the Future of Smart Messaging” 5G messaging forum and established the 5G messaging ecosystem alliance.
Based on the local circumstances, China Unicom Hunan 
Branch innovatively built the command centre platform of the 
Hunan Provincial Department of Culture and Tourism, which helped the digital upgrade of cultural tourism in the province, and further demonstrated the cultural and tourism industry environment with Hunan characteristics and its innovative development model. It strengthened the industry regulatory means, and provided smart empowerment for the recovery of the cultural tourism market after the pandemic.
General overviewChina Unicom Sustainability Report 202134
By integrating technologies and resources, China Unicom Shenzhen Branch launched online intelligent response to simple and common 
enquiries to improve the service capability of customer hotline. Through Big Data, it accurately analysed government information and public opinion 
to improve the timeliness and effectiveness of the government in handling emergencies and comprehensively enhance the service capability of the Shenzhen government service hotline platform, contributing to the development of Shenzhen into a smart city.Smart city
China Unicom built a new smart city capability system called “City Smart Brain CityNEXT”, launched 10 solutions including China Unicom’s 
new smart city comprehensive solutions, smart park solutions and city brain solutions, and implemented more than 660 smart city projects in 31 provinces across the country.
Smart ecosystemChina Unicom focused on areas such as comprehensive supervision of ecological environment and Big Data of ecological environment and 
developed solutions such as “China Unicom Ecological Environment Big Data Platform” and “Classification of Domestic Waste of Urban Residents”. It also implemented comprehensive management systems for ecological environment monitoring and “one-network-management” projects for ecological environment in Xiong’an, Shandong, Zhejiang, Shanghai and other provinces and cities to achieve cross-departmental, cross-level and cross-regional ecological environment data sharing within the provinces and facilitate digital, convenient and accurate management.
 Providing Warm and Intelligent Services
“Customer trust” is the foundation for the survival and development of an enterprise. China Unicom is committed to continuously improving the 
quality of products and services to meet customer needs, creating a high-value smart brand, caring for special groups, and obtaining high trust from customers.
 Creating excellent customer service
China Unicom always adheres to the business philosophy of “creating value for customers”, promotes high-quality service projects, promotes 
the closed-loop mechanism for problem solving, continuously enriches the service brand connotation, deepens customer service, improves service quality, and creates a better, more efficient and more convenient service experience for customers with diversified services. Strengthening applications in government affairs
China Unicom is committed to strengthening applications in government affairs and deepening high-efficiency governance services. It deeply 
participated in the development of digital government, smart city, smart ecology, etc., and built innovative application products such as “one-network-office, one-network-management” to help the modernisation of national governance capabilities and governance systems.
Digital governmentChina Unicom focused on key businesses such as emergency response, public security, Internet + government services, and developed six 
industry solutions including emergency management, safe production, smart fire protection, city security, smart public security and one-network-office, serving more than 200 government customers such as the Ministry of Emergency Management and the Ministry of Public Security.
Based on the digital needs of local 
regulatory authorities, China Unicom Beijing 
Branch created a “Four-Transformation” smart pollutant monitoring platform in Shunyi, Beijing as an example, and a number of smart ecological environment monitoring benchmark projects across the country, which were highly recognised by local government authorities.
China Unicom Beijing Branch Smart Pollutant Monitoring Cloud Platform35
Improving customer experience and perception
Guided by customer perception, China Unicom launched special service enhancement projects to actively solve customer complaints.
• The Company comprehensively sorted out customer complaint data from four major channels and established a full-scale problem
 
solving system based on “two networks and two businesses”. It strengthened the pre-authorisation and closed-loop operation of all problems, smoothed complaint channels, increased service authorisation and remediation scenarios, and launched customer satisfaction re-visits to continuously improve customer perception.
•
 The Company innovatively built the China Unicom Complaint Platform, and launched an Internet complaint platform website, WeChat
 
mini program and a complaint portal at the China Unicom APP in 31 provinces across the country to create an excellent customer experience with extensive touch points, transparent process, convenience and efficiency, improving customer service perception.
•
 The Company carried out the “Special Action for Improving Customer Satisfaction”. Focusing on 23 issues affecting customer expe
rience 
in ten categories, it continued to implement the service action, and effectively solved the “pain point” problems of the public.
• The Company strengthened the service KPIs and carried out three-dimensional matrix management on the subjects of complaints
 
penetrating “vertically to provincial branches, horizontally to professional departments, and specially to subsidiaries”. It promoted problem solving through monthly analysis and notification, customer re-visits and supervision, so as to achieve the goal of “solving one type of problem by handling one complaint”.
•
 The 
Company ensured the stable operation of mobile number portability service. Relying on the advantages of its nationally centralised 
system, the Company focused on launching services such as “online and cross-region port-in services” and “cross-region refund of tariff balance for port-out users”. It firmly adhered to the red line and bottom line of the policy of mobile number portability, and carried out special rectification on service issues such as “obstructing mobile number portability and restricting mobile number portability with unknowing unbundling” to create a warm and caring service experience.
Innovating on digital life experience
China Unicom provides users with a more intelligent living experience through product innovation. In 2021, the total number of mobile 
subscribers reached 317 million, the number of 5G subscribers reached 155 million, and the number of fixed-line broadband subscribers reached 95,046,000.•
 The 
Company built an open and shared China Unicom smart home ecosystem. It independently developed culink, a standardised 
ecological connectivity protocol, and created six integrated systems including gigabit, secondary card, fixed voice, application, video and finance through the digital operation platform to provide users with a smarter, more intelligent and happier new family life experience.
•
 The Company built a platform-based innovative product system. To create an ultimate experience for 5G users and meet the needs
 
of users for digital and intelligent life, the Company created innovative products such as video ringtones, Unicom assistant and China Unicom cloud disk to release product innovation energy. The number of registered users of video ringtones reached 200 million, and the number of registered users of Unicom assistant reached 181 million.
Building agile service operation
China Unicom leveraged its advantages in smart operation, strengthened centralised empowerment, continued to improve its service 
operation capabilities, and achieved online and offline integration and service marketing integration.•
 Deepening seamless online and offline services to solve customer problems in one stop. For seamless services, the Company
 
strengthened omni-channel service coordination by linking up hotline and offline service points, effectively improving customer perception. For seamless marketing, through insights into customer demands and the strategy of precise service matching, the Company realised all-round and seamless intelligent services.
•
 Leveraging the advantages of smart operation, the Company improved the ability of one-stop solution to customer problems. The
 
problem solving rate increased by 1.9PP to 88.9%, and the proportion of smart services increased by 56.8PP to 84.03%.
Smoothing customer service channels
The Company expanded service channels such as the 10010 hotline and China Unicom APP, extended service coverage and improved 
service quality and efficiency.•
 The 10010 hotline service channel adopted centralised operation to achieve centralised cross-region dispatch and re-use of idle
 
capacity, and the success rate of connecting to human customer service within 15 seconds increased to 92.5%. The Company built an agile and intelligent call centre. Customers can dial directly throughout the country, and they will be matched precisely with suitable services according to their needs. The hotline can make intelligent prediction and offer intelligent response. It knows customers’ deeds, understands customers’ needs and can solve customers’ issues. In 2021, the customer service hotline service volume reached 1,380 million times, and the satisfaction rate of 10010 increased by 2.3PP to 97.5%.
•
 China Unicom’s APP takes leading experience as its goal and has become a preferred one-stop service channel for users with accu
rate 
lookup, quick delivery, smooth operation and full service. As of 2021, China Unicom APP served 62.98 million users, representing an increase of over 80%. Self-service accounted for 80.5%. Service satisfaction rate was 9.1 points, improving by over 25%.
In April 2021, China Unicom’s Mobile Business Outlet APP was 
officially renamed as “China Unicom APP”, which was fully upgraded 
in terms of service, life, entertainment and wealth. It is committed to providing customers with a warmer and smart experience and creating a more convenient and personalised good life.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202136
“WO Online” customer portal adopts lightweight H5 design. Users do 
not need to download any App. A video connection request can be initiated 
by scanning a code or clicking a link. In the process of service sign-up, the customer service representative will push the fill-free form with key content highlighted to the user’s mobile phone for confirmation, fully protecting the user’s right to know, eliminating induced consumption and billing disputes, and letting users easily and knowingly sign up services.
Establishing experience monitoring system
Adhering to the “people-oriented” principle, the Company established an end-to-end customer experience monitoring system covering all customers, businesses and life cycles.•
 We built an end-to-end perception monitoring system to collect and analyse data in real time, and promote the solution of perce
ption 
depression. Focusing on four major professional aspects and 301 key scenarios, the Company built a full-scenario map of customers, and promoted the fundamental solution of problems through “advance insight and prevention, in-process operation monitoring, and post-event evaluation management”.
•
 B
ased on the concept of full network service, the Company reconstructed its service standard system, which covered four major 
professional aspects and aligned with customer-side experience evaluation for integrated operation. It employed digital means to conduct real-time monitoring for early warning and swiftly resolve problems, leading to all-round customer experience improvement in network, business and services.
Shaping internal culture and external reputationChina Unicom is committed to building the influence of high-quality services. Externally, based on the service perspective and focusing on hot topics, pain points and business priorities, it strengthened knowledge dissemination, conveyed its differentiated service advantages, and infused service reputation into people’s minds. Internally, we drove the development and integration of service culture, promoted the profound reform of ideological awareness, code of conduct and process system, and instilled the service culture into our staff.•
 The Company carried out a service culture
 
season campaign titled “I do practical things for the public – ‘all endeavors for three purposes’ action again” to forge a new service culture.
•
 The Company launched a customer word-of-mouth campaign titled “Further upgrade
 
of service experience” to integrate its internal and external publicity resources to build official publicity for China Unicom’s promoting high-quality services.
•
 The Company launched six topics such as cross-region sharing and China Unicom APP service upgrade and “I do practical things fo
r 
the public” during the year, with over 3.01 billion times of publicity exposure in total. Service reputation and awareness rate reached 50.14%. China Unicom’s customer service accounts in Douyin and Bilibili ranked first among central state-owned enterprises in terms of scale and its Kuaishou account ranked first in the industry. The Company created a communication knowledge expert series named “instantly understanding China Unicom”, publishing 560 knowledge videos and 168 live broadcasts with a total of 210 million views, thereby educating the public on communication knowledge and tips on usage in a clear and easy-to-understand manner and establishing good customer communication and interaction.
China Unicom Customer Service Operation Account Award
Scan the code to initiate video connection
MIIT Satisfaction rating
81.68  pointsAmong which, network satisfaction 
increased year-on-year
0.94  points
Continuous improvement of NPSIn 2021, the overall satisfaction rating of the Company by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology showed an improvement trend 
throughout the year
Year-on-year improvement 
in service quality
2.58  points
Annual self-improvement and enhancement of mobile network
16.8  pointsBroadband upgrade
9.9  points5G-specific satisfaction remained
Industry- 
leading37
China Unicom and Xinhuanet jointly launched the “5G Pilot, Sailing 
for the Future” series of programs, which showed the real application 
experience of China Unicom’s 5G by users and the public and demonstrated the technical strength of China Unicom’s 5G technology. It explained key projects in detail through case studies to shape the smart image of China Unicom’s brand.
Taking advantage of the 517 World Telecommunications Day and the 
520 Global Accessibility Day, the Company created a warm short film adapted from three real stories from a special perspective to tell the changes brought by China Unicom’s technologies and wisdom to the lives of special people. It embodied China Unicom’s sense of social responsibility, a technological sense full of profound humanitarian spirit, and the brand’s warmth with human touch.
The video creativity won four awards at the 2021 China International 
Advertising Festival, including the Gold Award for short video creative advertising in the category of audio-visual game media of the Interactive Creativity Award, the Gold Award for humanitarian care artistic advertising in the category of public welfare advertising, the Bronze Award for brand image public welfare advertising and the Bronze Award for artistic innovation marketing, and won the Nomination Award of the 14th Golden Investment Award for Commercial Creativity.
Standardising brand management
In line with the Company’s brand development strategy, the Company revised and improved the “China Unicom Brand and Advertising 
Management Measures” to make brand management scientific, standardised, efficient and transparent, enhance the brand concept of all employees of the Company and improve the brand management system. Building a first-class brand image
Under the macro landscape of digital economy, China Unicom has renewed and upgraded its brand strategy, optimised its brand positioning, 
built a brand strategy model and improved its brand management system. Under the guidance of the new strategy, it built a high-value smart brand 
and achieved brand leadership in the digital economy era.
Continuing to enhance brand reputation
Leveraging on the opportunities of 5G and the Winter Olympics, the Company fully coordinated with the internal media matrix to create a “warm” 
differentiated smart brand image with both internal and external refinement to enhance the overall brand value.
•
 The Company undertook the “5 + N” brand revamp and internalisation project. Through brand alliance platform, brand education an
d 
training, brand image engineering, brand ambassador selection and publicity activities, it continued to deepen its brand substance, enhanced 
employees’ awareness and sense of identity of the brand, and stimulated the initiative to fulfill the brand commitment.
•
 Taking advantage of current hot topics, the Company created a brand smart experience in multiple dimensions. Through Hearing Ki
ng Card, 
smart cultural tourism, respecting and helping the elderly, industry exhibitions and partner conferences, we conveyed China Unicom’s clear attitude of creating value for customers, the society and the industry, and demonstrated China Unicom’s social responsibility of participating in the digital economy and promoting high-quality development.
•
 Seizing current hot topics such as the Tokyo Olympics, the Company co-organised online and offline interactive experience activ
ities such as 
“Going to N Cities”, lighting up the “City Olympic Landmark”, “Life Like This”, “Family Network Testing for People Service” and “Fancy Sports Game Show” with leading media such as Douyin, Bilibili and Sina. Through scenario-based presentation, the Company highlighted product features.
•
 The Company, together with Beijing Satellite TV, Youth League Central Committee, Xinhuanet, Beijing Satellite TV and other seni
or units, 
central media and industry vertical media, jointly produced contents such as “Meeting Winter Dreams” and “Hardcore Young Ice and Snow Season”. It cooperated with benchmark enterprises and experts in the form of “small incidents, big stories” to highlight the advantages of China Unicom’s products and services through differentiation, strengthen the capabilities of China Unicom’s industry solutions, and enhance the brand favourability.
SASAC brand building capability
Seventh among central state-owned enterprises, first in the industryBrand first-mention rate
No. 2 in the industry
Seventh among central state-owned enterprises, first in the industryBrand reputation
No. 2 in the industry
No. 2 in the industry
No. 2 in the industryChina Unicom Sustainability Report 202138
 Strengthening Reform to Enhance Motivation
China Unicom has been consistently promoting reform and innovation, strengthening system integration, and effectively driving the integration 
and iterative deepening of various special reforms with the Company’s strategy, so as to form a long-term reform mechanism and lead the 
Company’s high-quality development.
 Promoting three-year action of state-owned enterprise (SOE) reform
China Unicom thoroughly implemented the three-year action plan for SOE reform and organically combined the three-year action plan for SOE reform with 
comprehensive digital transformation and world-class management improvement actions. It identified 130 reform tasks in 10 aspects, and coordinated the whole Company to systematically implement them. As of the end of 2021, it completed 93% of the reform tasks.
Continuously improving modern corporate systemBoards of directors were established at 100% applicable subsidiaries, and 100% of them had a majority made up of external directors.
Deepening the market-oriented operation mechanism
China Unicom fully adopted tenure-based and contract-based appointment of middle management, and iteratively promoted the reform to 
stimulate the vitality of front-line responsibility units. Smart Home engineers were 100% included in sub-divided unit management to strengthen grid-based digital empowerment.
Promoting system optimisation and structural adjustmentBased on the reform of professional operating systems, the Company carried out in-depth reform and review of operating systems such as big 
marketing, network and technological innovation, and continued to optimise the reform plans. The Company successfully completed the clean-up of non-core businesses and inefficient assets and reduction of legal persons.
Deepening the market-oriented reform of subsidiariesIn 2021, China Unicom promoted the restructuring and integration of key businesses in the value chain, and established China Unicom Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd., which is a major strategic move to actively adapt to the changes in the new productivity of the “cross-domain integration” of the digital economy and reconstruct the new production relationship of “integrated innovation”. At the same time, China Unicom Asset Operation Company was established to strengthen the unified planning and operation of real estate and land resources.
On 7 February 2021, the establishment ceremony of China Unicom Digital Technology Co., Ltd. was held in Beijing. At the commencement 
of “14th Five-Year Plan”, the Company vigorously integrated the capabilities of “cloud computing, Big Data, IoT, AI, blockchain and security” and 
established China Unicom Digital Technology Company. This is not only a move to actively adapt to the changes in the new productivity of the “cross-domain integration” of the digital economy and reconstruct the new production relationship of “integrated innovation”, but also a supply-side structural reform driven by the new changes in the demand side of the digital economy. It is a major strategic move of China Unicom to create unique innovative competitive advantages and achieve differentiated breakthrough in innovative racetracks.
With the management model of “integration of transformation and reform”, i.e. creating unique digital productivity through 
comprehensive digital transformation, and building a unique new production relationship through pilot mixed ownership reform of central SOEs, China Unicom was successfully selected as one of the ten benchmark management models of SASAC, serving as a role model of SOE management, empowering the core competitiveness of enterprises, and creating a new model for the transformation and upgrade of SOEs in the new era.
 Deepening three-systems reform
Deepening the reform of labour, personnel and distribution system is a key element to enhance the vitality and efficiency of an enterprise. China 
Unicom continued to deepen the reform of the three systems and fully activated the core elements of human resources. With more flexible promotion 
and demotion of management personnel, employment and dismissal of employees, and adjustment of income, the vitality and competitiveness of the Company was enhanced.
•
 The Company focused on comprehensive guidance and formulated the Guiding Opinions of China Unicom on Deepening the Three System
s 
Reform to clarify the reform tasks and the reform requirements.
• T
he Company focused on structural optimization. The network department continued to strengthen the construction of the intelligent network 
engineering team that supports independent operation and fulfilment. The consumer market department promoted the migration of personnel to key positions such as online operation team and middle office production and operation. The government and enterprise department promoted key customer marketing, product management, solutions, and technology R&D team development.
•
 The Company focused on evaluation and feedback, and established three-systems reform evaluation system. It focused on reform
 
performance indicators, placing emphasis on systemic indicators in regard to the three aspects of “promotion and demotion, employment and dismissal, and increase and reduction”. It evaluated the reform results in a closed-loop manner, and strengthened the application of evaluation results.39
 Creating a Pool of Innovative Talents
China Unicom adhered to the strategy of talent-led development, deepened the reform of the talent development system and mechanism, 
deeply implemented talent-oriented corporate development and created the comparative advantages and competitive advantages of talents. It 
comprehensively cultivated, introduced and used talents to promote the fundamental change of talent structure. At the same time, the Company effectively safeguarded the legitimate rights and interests of its employees, gave full play to their enthusiasm and creativity, and let them share the achievements of reform and development and grow together with the Company.
 Optimising talent structure
China Unicom adhered to strengthening the enterprise with talents, improved the talent management system and mechanism, and optimised 
and adjusted the talent structure in response to strategic requirements. The Company focused on identifying outstanding young management talents at the front-line acting in major events, and continuously improved the whole chain mechanism of education, selection, management and use of talents. The age structure of the middle management team continued to improve. The Company has built a four-level professional talent pool of 19,000, including 950 leading and expert talents, 6,100 backbone talents and 12,200 new talents. The “Digital Elite” program was implemented to achieve full coverage of digital training certification for four-level professional talents. Strengthening internal process governance
Focusing on value creation, adhering to the principles of “customer first”, “business first” and “front-line first”, the Company transformed the 
low-efficiency and high-cost traditional processes centred on management and control into a customer-centric digital process with high efficiency 
and low cost. It built a process-oriented organisation to promote the transformation to a digital, intelligent and ecological platform-based enterprise.
•
 F
ocusing on the process framework, the Company established a process management system and a process construction and operation 
system. Based on the process management platform, the full process view could be visualised, managed and controlled.
•
 The system operation steps were simplified. Taking as an example the scenario of switching from 4G integration to 5G integratio
n, the 
number of system clicks were reduced from 88 steps to 68 steps, and the processing time was shortened from 15 minutes to within 10 minutes, creating a streamlined and efficient process.
•
 The Company compressed process workflows. It reduced the number of steps in the project initiation of government and enterprise
 dual-line 
business. The fulfilment time (with resources) was shortened from as long as 15 days to 3/5/7 days, and the average time of fulfilment was reduced by 50%, improving the efficiency of service fulfilment.
•
 T
he Company established centralised operation services and promoted the provincial-level centralisation of accounting and invoicing for 
government and enterprise business, reducing the number of supporting staff by 10%, the time lapse of revenue booking by 20% and invoice printing cycle by 50%. The average efficiency improved by over 30% and labour costs were reduced by 45%.
 Exploring operation in the mode of mixed-ownership reform
Deepening the reform of Yunnan branch. In order to ensure the sustainable and healthy development of China Unicom Yunnan Branch, China 
Unicom studied and issued the Notice on Further Deepening the Comprehensive Reform of “Double-hundred Action” of China Unicom Yunnan Branch. China Unicom increased its shareholding from 5% to 40% to become the single largest shareholder, ensuring the control of state-owned capital in the reform. It completed the integration of two entities to achieve unified operation.
Promoting the reform of Guangxi branch. China Unicom Guangxi Branch implemented social capital cooperation and operational reform in 
7 cities and entered the first cooperation period in 2021. The 7 local operating companies have established a market-oriented operation system and a financial control system with profit and cash flow as the focus. The companies in the autonomous region implement integrated operation and management for reform and non-reform areas.
Smart Connection Technology actively preparing for IPO. Smart Connection Technology Company improved its corporate governance system, 
completed the reform of its joint-stock system, completed the market-oriented selection and appointment of the management team, and formed a new management team comprising the general manager, deputy general manager and CFO. Since the reform, the valuation of the Company increased from RMB100 million at the time of establishment to RMB1,039 million before investment and RMB1,500 million after investment, effectively realising the preservation and appreciation of state-owned assets. Through the organic integration with automobile manufacturers and other strategic investors in the industry ecology, it achieved rapid improvement in value creation capabilities, maintained a market share of over 70% in the factory-installed market, and consolidated its leading market position.
By Education Level By Age
■ Below 30 years old ■ Technical
■ Administrative ■ Others■ Marketing ■ Management
■ Above 50 years old■ Between 30–50 years old ■ Bachelor degree
■ College diploma ■ Secondary school diploma 
or belowBy Job Function
■ Master degree or above63.34%16.87%11.26%8.53%
15.48% 16.97%
67.55%28.90%
50.46%12.37%
7.38%0.89%China Unicom Sustainability Report 202140
Total number of employeesEmployees in 
Mainland ChinaEmployees in Hong Kong, 
Macau and TaiwanEmployees overseas
243,381 242,497 598 286
New recruitsGender proportion 
(Male/Female)Proportion of ethnic minority 
employees (%)Number of 
resigned employeesTemporary labour hired on 
market-oriented basis in 
Mainland China
13,038 1.62:1 6.8 4,009 12,606
Number of industry experts in the field of 
technological innovation introduced
more than 40Four-level talent pool
19,000
 Protecting employees’ rights
China Unicom insisted on regarding employees as its foundation. It promoted the spirit of endeavours and innovation and respected labour, 
knowledge, talents and creativity. It safeguarded the legitimate rights and interests of employees and served its staff with full efforts. It promoted the 
“win-win” situation where employees and the Company grew together through the market-oriented reform of human resources, and continuously improved the sense of happiness and achievement of employees.
Adhering to fair employment•
 Strictly abiding by the Labour Law, the Labour Contract Law and other relevant laws and regulations, the Company signed labour 
contracts 
with 100% of employees, and implemented dismissal policies in accordance with relevant national requirements.
•
 The Group has formulated the “Human Resources Risk Prevention and Control Manual”, adopted strict inspection and control proced
ures in 
recruitment and promotion and strictly prohibited any discrimination against employees in terms of age and gender. It complied with the “Provisions on the Prohibition of Using Child Labour”, strictly prohibited the use of child labour, and provided training to main contractors providing manpower or services. In 2021, there were no incidents of discrimination, child labour and employee abuse.
•
 The Company implemented the national policy of “stabilising employment and expanding employment” and expanded the scope of
 
recruitment to graduates in the past two years who were unemployed. It actively promoted employment assistance, provided 396 targeted recruitment positions in Xinjiang, Tibet and Qinghai, and recruited a total of 39 Tibetan graduates.
Protecting democratic rights•
 The Company implemented the national regulations on working hours management, strictly implemented the special working hours
 
declaration system, and protected the rights of employees to rest and leave. There was no forced labour.
•
 The Company implemented paid leave system and retained 100% of job opportunities after maternity leave. It actively supported a
nd 
implemented childcare leave and single child care leave. It implemented the paid companion leave system for employees whose children were enrolled in the high school and college examination, and provided guidance services for 3,700 employees’ children to fill in their choices for colleges.
•
 Workforce development was reported to the employee representative congress and the formulation and implementation of human reso
urces 
policies was disclosed, providing smooth information communication channels.
China Unicom AI Special Training Course China Unicom “Digital Elite” four-level professional talent training
Innovating on talent incentives•
 The Company optimised the total salary management measures and continuously released the bonus of mixed-ownership reform. The
 
Company improved the labour cost allocation rules of provincial branches and subsidiaries, optimised the incremental income sharing mechanism, 
and realised the coordinated growth of labour cost and benefit. Labour cost increased by 7.6% year-on-year. The average adjustment ratio of labour cost of each unit reached 10% in order to break the rigidity of the existing system.
•
 T
he Company improved the framework of long-term incentive system and optimised the flexible welfare system to meet the diversified 
needs of employees.
•
 The 
Company regularly carried out employee rank and salary promotion, with a rank promotion rate of 14.3% and a salary promotion rate of 
38.4% in 2021.
 Helping employees grow
China Unicom adhered to the people-oriented principle, cherished the value of each employee and attached great importance to the capacity 
building and career development of employees. It continuously promoted the construction of education and training system with emphasis on improving the digital capabilities of all employees, so as to facilitate the career development of each employee and promote the communication with and growth of employees.Turnover rate of four-level talents
12.8 %41
Reconstructing training system
The Company continued to improve the training management system and mechanism and deepen the reconstruction of the education and training 
system. It increased the training organisation support and training resource allocation, and promoted the implementation of the education and training system in all units.
•
 We established training programs for key groups and set up a professional competence standard system. Focusing on the training 
objectives, 
development paths and capability requirements of different groups, we built digital capability standards and curriculum systems to enable digital empowerment.
•
 We promoted the construction of certification systems for various professional departments and promoted capacity transformation
 through position 
certification. We completed the update and iteration of capacity standards for 63 professional aspects, and professional talents passed the certification 93,056 person-times.
•
 Focusing on digital empowerment, network intelligent operation, network information security, intelligent network independent f
ulfilment, 
technological innovation and other aspects, the Company carried out the development of technical professional courses, and developed a total of 223 courses and 360 teaching hours during the year.
•
 Making full use of the resources of various online education platforms, the Company held a series of training sessions such as 
“China Unicom 
Lecture Hall”, “Smart Talks” and “WO Sharing”, with a total of 1,260,000 person-times of participation. It held 33 live broadcast training sessions with 53,000 viewers. It set up a special zone for online college, with over 9,970,000 people studying online.
•
 We 
carried out IT/DT technology capacity training for all employees, with 19,000 people trained online. The Company implemented the digital 
piloting and digital elite projects to achieve full coverage of second-level managers, third-level managers and fourth-level professionals. We carried out the “apprenticeship” for four-level talents to enhance the digital capabilities of other professionals.
Training participants Training Content
Company-wide managers 
and employeesThe Company carried out 11,402 sessions of learning and education on Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics in the new era, with more than 
897,000 participants.
ManagementThe Company continued to carry out professional ability improvement training. 340 people participated in the rotation training class for headquarters personnel, and 47 general managers of local branches participated in the transformation training demonstration class. 26 management personnel were selected to participate in the training of the Organisation Department of the Central Committee of the CPC.
Outstanding young cadresThe Company held the “Young and Middle-aged Cadre Training Class” and “Young Management Talent Demonstration Class”, and 122 outstanding young management talents participated in theoretical learning and ability training.
Professional talentsFocusing on key tasks, the Company carried out regular and multi-level transformation and empowerment training for four-level talents and professional staff, organised demonstration classes at the headquarters to empower all professional teams persistently. The Company carried out more than 84,000 professional skill training sessions for employees of various professional ranks, with a total of more than 5,160,000 participants.
Front-line employeesFor front-line sales, call centres and installation and maintenance employees, we built digital capability standards and curriculum systems, and conducted more than 58,000 training and certification sessions throughout the year, with over 2,290,000 participants.
Building a training platform
China Unicom is committed to building a team of talents for digital transformation. It actively carried out various skill competitions such as 5G 
innovative applications, Big Data innovation, solutions, and smart Winter Olympics. It drew cases from real production scenarios, real customers, and 
real cases to substitute training, spur learning and achieve empowerment through competitions, and continuously improved the technical capabilities of employees.
At the opening 
ceremony of the  
training class for  young and middle-aged cadres and the demonstration class for young management talents, Liu Liehong, chairman of the  Company, attended and personally  presented flags for the two classes.
Average training time
94  hoursRMB340.99  million
was invested in employee training
5,390,000
people-times participated in 
the training
Training rate of 
senior management
100 %Average training time
203  hoursAverage training time
104  hoursAverage training time
94  hours
Average training time of male employees
94.31  hoursAverage training time of female employees
94.31  hoursTraining rate ofmiddle management
100 %Training rate of general employees
99 %
Training rate of female employees
98.87 %Training rate of male employees
98.87 %China Unicom Sustainability Report 202142
China Unicom Innovative Product Labour Competition China Unicom New Operation Project Innovative Skills Competition
 Improving democratic management
China Unicom has established a robust democratic management system based on the labour union, coordinated and promoted the three-in-
one democratic corporate management comprising “labour union, open corporate affairs, and employees’ advice and suggestions”. It guaranteed 
the right to know, participate, express, and supervise of employees at all levels, and encouraged employees to contribute their wisdom to the development of the Company.
•
 Throughout the year, the Company held about 500 labour union meetings at all levels. Over 1,700 items of various matters were d
iscussed 
at the provincial company level, over 10,000 items were discussed at subsidiaries and municipal companies, and there were over 3,000 items of various proposals.
•
 The Company set up channels for collecting opinions such as “all endeavors for three purposes “discussion, the whole committee 
online, 
employee satisfaction survey and front-line survey, etc. It held special employee participation activities such as process governance, authorisation and delegation, China Unicom APP user experience, and work style improvement. In 2021, the Company received a total of 13,400 employee requests, with a resolution rate of 97.61%.
•
 The 
Company carried out the service culture season activity of “I do practical things for the public” to collect experience and feelings of 
touchpoint service, product business, network experience and other aspects. A total of 26,668 questions and suggestions were collected.
•
 The Company kept smooth channels for reasonable suggestions, and ensured that all employees’ demands and feedback were responde
d 
to through various reasonable suggestions activities such as “General Manager Online”. Throughout the year, the Company carried out more than 150 “General Manager Online” meetings, conducted two rounds of selection of outstanding proposals by employee representatives, and collected 85 proposals.
Listening to the voice of our employees and collecting feedback from the front-line. China Unicom organised “General Manager Online” events for 
employees at all levels to actively contribute to the development of the Company.
• The Company carried out 502 labour and skills competitions  
in 2021, covering subdivided marketing, customer operation, financial rights, network AI, network support for the Winter Olympics, network security. We selected 233 “China Unicom Technical Experts” and the number of competitions, number of participants and participation rate reached record high.
•
 The Company jointly held a competition on the practical digital
 
operation skills for government and enterprises with the China National Defense Posts and Telecommunications Union and co-organised a network co-build co-share labour competition with China Telecom.16
first- and second-class labour 
and skill competitions at the Group level were held in 202130
third-class skill com-petitions at the Group level were held 
43
 Caring for employees’ life
Adhering to the concept of serving employees, China Unicom fully understood the thoughts of employees at the front-line, continuously 
innovated on various measures to serve employees, helped employees balance work and life, created an efficient, relaxed and caring working 
atmosphere for employees, and enhanced employees’ sense of belonging, security and mission to the Company.
Strengthening pandemic prevention and control
As the pandemic prevention and control has become a new normal, the labour unions at all levels continued to carry out pandemic prevention 
and control, and continuously optimised and implemented employee care measures on the premise of implementing pandemic prevention and 
control measures, so as to better serve enterprises and employees in special periods.
•
 The Company established a pandemic prevention mechanism, required the labour unions at all levels to strengthen their awareness
 of 
pandemic prevention, organised pandemic prevention activities according to local conditions, reasonably reserved pandemic prevention materials, formulated emergency response measures, and coordinated the promotion of pandemic prevention and control and the Company’s business development.
•
 During 
the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company arranged employees to stay put during the Spring Festival and visited the families of overseas 
employees. The Company provided various forms of care for employees who stayed put during the Spring Festival, and relieved the worries of employees who were unable to return home during the severe pandemic overseas. The labour union organised care visits for overseas employees and their families, and distributed care gifts and money to the families of overseas employees.
Ensuring production safety
The Company strictly abides by the Production Safety Law of the People’s Republic of China and other relevant laws and regulations. It further 
implemented production safety responsibilities, improved basic systems such as the Measures for the Supervision and Administration of Production 
Safety and the Fire Safety Management Regulations, improved the safety supervision mechanism, strengthened personnel protection, and fully implemented production safety.
•
 The 
Company improved the production safety quality of all employees, organised theme activities such as Production Safety Month, Fire 
Safety Day and Production Safety Law Publicity Week, carried out fire practice and theoretical training, and organised fire and emergency evacuation drills and accident handling drills.
•
 In 2021, there were no general or above production safety accidents in the whole system. The Company achieved zero fire in the 
whole 
system and zero fatality rate per thousand people. There were no lost days due to work-related injuries, and the safety sense of employees has been significantly improved.
•
 We promoted the construction of employee health management system, and provided employees with health examination, health lectu
res, 
critical illness insurance and other services.
•
 We protected the mental health of employees, extensively carried out a series of activities such as “mental health of employees
” and “public 
sports for front-line”, innovatively promoted the construction of “psychological station” on a pilot basis, and actively provided psychological care during special periods such as the pandemic in Hebei and overseas as well as the flood in Henan. In 2021, the Company was awarded the honor of “Healthy Enterprise” by People’s Health Network.
In order to conscientiously implement the Three-year Action 
Plan for Special Rectification of Production Safety of China Unicom, 
popularise fire safety knowledge of the headquarters personnel, improve fire safety awareness, and enhance safety knowledge and necessary skills, the administrative service centre of the headquarters invited Tian Siyu Police Officer of the Fire Rescue Branch of Financial Street, Xicheng District to conduct fire safety knowledge training in the office.
119
training sessions held on 
production safety100 %
coverage on production safety training
Caring for female employees
By signing a special collective contract for female employees, improving the construction of “breastfeeding room” and holding a series of 
special activities on “March 8 Festival”, we protected the rights and interests of female employees and provided targeted and considerate services to them. In 2021, China Unicom selected 120 “Heroines’ Civilised Positions” and 125 “Heroines’ Meritorious Models” to stimulate the entrepreneurial vitality of female employees.
Enriching cultural and sports activitiesChina Unicom earnestly implemented the national strategy of 
“Healthy China” and “National Fitness”, organised various cultural and sports activities, participated in various competitions organised by the National Defense Posts and Telecommunications System, Communications Sports Association of China, etc.. In 2021, trade unions at all levels organised nearly 6,000 cultural and sports activities with 600,000 participants. China Unicom Shandong Branch was honored as an advanced unit of national mass sports by the State General Administration of Sports. Hu Mingrui of China Unicom Guangdong Branch and Qu Fengxia of China Unicom Hebei Branch were honored as advanced individuals of national mass sports.
Flowers and handicraft themed activities for female employees on International 
Women’s DayChina Unicom Sustainability Report 202144
China Unicom carried out a series of sports activities such as badminton competition and balloon volleyball competition for employees under 
the theme of “Celebrating the Winter Olympics and Writing a New Chapter”. Chairman Liu Liehong came to watch the competition and encouraged 
employees to actively participate in various cultural and sports activities of the Company.
Hohhot Branch in Inner Mongolia organically combined home-building work with 
the construction of employee teams and employee culture. When the office building was relocated, it fully considered the needs of employees, built a “reading corner” full of books and energetic “fitness corner” for employees, and improved employees’ sense of happiness and gain through the construction of “employee home”, and enhanced employees’ sense of identity and belonging to the Company.Deepening assistance and care
We are dedicated to solving difficulties for employees, and have established an assistance mechanism, including files of employees in 
difficulties, insurance cover for major diseases, and mutual assistance funds for employees. We have built a “Trinity” assistance system of critical 
illness insurance, mutual assistance fund and supplementary medical care. In 2021, more than RMB70 million assistance funds were distributed to employees in difficulties, 2,273 claims were made for critical illness insurance, and mutual aid funds were provided 3,700 times. After the severe flood disaster in Henan, the labour union of the headquarters immediately went to the site to visit the front-line rescue personnel and raised RMB 1,000,000 to support the post-disaster reconstruction.
We set up special funds for “five small” construction, raised RMB6,685,000 in 2021, improved the working and living environment for 100 
front-line units in red old areas, supported the post-disaster reconstruction of front-line units in Henan, Shanxi and Sichuan, and improved the working and living environment for cadres and employees working in remote areas due to poverty alleviation and stability maintenance work.
We carried out the activity of “I do practical things for the public”. For 
heroic models, families of a martyred soldiers, national model workers and other groups, we carried out the “sending a piece of care” activity. A total of 2,306 people were visited and RMB2,570,000 were provided as care money by labour unions at all levels.RMB70.22  million
spent on aiding employees 
in needRMB42.10  million
spent as care money
Caring for employees’ children
In order to overcome the difficulties caused by the pandemic, the Company continued to carry out the “Employees’ Children Custody during 
Leave” and provide custody services for employees’ children in innovative form. Among them, the employees’ children custody class of China Unicom Fujian branch was rated as “National Custody Class with Love” by the All-China Federation of Trade Unions.
2021 China Unicom Employee Table Tennis Competition
Firmly Committed to
                      Carrying the
in MindResponsibility of the   People’s Livelihood With the
“People’s Needs”45
Firmly Committed to
                      Carrying the
in MindResponsibility of the   People’s Livelihood With the
“People’s Needs”China Unicom Sustainability Report 202146
• Consolidated and expanded the achievements of poverty 
alleviation, continued to contribute to the comprehensive rural 
revitalisation with broadband network covering 327,000 administrative villages.
•
 Strengthened green management, green production and
 
operation, green industry empowerment. A special fund of RMB130 million was allocated for energy-saving upgrades.
•
 Integrated advantages of various parties such as industry peers,
 
equipment and terminal suppliers, channel partners, and strategic investors to engage in “team competition”.
•
 Carried out charity donations, deepened universal services, and 
actively took part in charity and volunteer service to give back to society.Measures adopted in 2021
• To vigorously promote the construction of rural  
revitalisation network and drive rural revitalization with industrial revitalisation.
•
 To deeply implement carbon peak and carbon neutrality, 
and drive research, testing and application of new technologies, new equipment and new solutions in energy conservation.
•
 To deepen cooperation with strategic investors and
 
industry leaders, and achieve win-win cooperation in terms of business, products and capital.
•
 To 
systematise the organisation and management 
of charity volunteer services, standardise team building and normalise activities.Actions to be taken in 2022The country is the people and the people are the country. China Unicom has always adhered to the people-oriented development 
philosophy, taking improving the well-being of the people and promoting the all-round development of people as the starting point and goal of 
digital development. It consolidated and expanded the achievements of poverty alleviation and effectively connected it with rural revitalisation, actively conveyed the warmth of charity, promoted the common prosperity of the society, and continuously enhanced the sense of gain, happiness and security of the people. At the same time, we actively implemented the national “dual carbon” requirements to help build a beautiful China. We consolidated the advantages of all parties to engage in “team competition” and form an integrated and open cooperation ecosystem, promoting the common development of the industry chain.
 Facilitating the Construction of a Beautiful China
People live up to lucid waters and lush mountains. China Unicom adheres to the concept of green development. It coordinated and promoted 
green management, network construction, operation and other work, strictly controlled energy consumption intensity and reasonably controlled 
the total energy consumption. It deeply promoted the green empowerment of industries to facilitate green and low-carbon production, living and governance, thereby contributing to carbon peak and carbon neutrality, and bringing ecological benefits to the people.
 Improving the green management system
In compliance with the Environmental Protection Law of the People’s Republic of China, the Energy Conservation Law of the People’s Republic 
of China and other laws and regulations related to environmental protection, China Unicom actively responded to the adjustment brought by national climate change. It established the “Carbon Peak, Carbon Neutrality” Management Committee, to guide the establishment and improvement of the Company’s “Carbon Peak, Carbon Neutrality” management system, and decide on relevant major work matters. The Management Committee has set up a “Carbon Peak, Carbon Neutrality” management office, which is responsible for research on relevant policies, establishing and improving relevant systems, organising the research and development, testing and promotion of energy-saving and carbon reduction technologies, and organising relevant training, publicity and exchanges, striving to reduce carbon footprint.
The Company formulated and released the “Carbon Peak, Carbon Neutrality” 14th Five-Year Action Plan, and launched the “3 + 5 + 1 + 1” 
action plan. With the goal of green and low-carbon circular development, the Company comprehensively, systematically and deeply promoted energy conservation and carbon reduction, continuously improved the greenness of communication network infrastructure, and helped bring the green and low-carbon development of the industry to a new level. It made a positive contribution to the country’s 2030 targets to increase the proportion of non-fossil energy consumption to about 25%, and to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by more than 65% as compared with 2005.47
Details of the “3 + 5 + 1 + 1” action plan for carbon peak and carbon neutrality
 Enhancing green production and operation
Promoting green and low-carbon production
China Unicom actively promoted the intelligent transformation, energy-saving innovation and green upgrade of communication infrastructure to 
improve comprehensive energy utilisation efficiency. The Company enforced strict control from the source of equipment procurement, implemented energy-saving responsibilities, put forward energy-saving KPI requirements, and allocated RMB130 million of special fund for energy-saving transformation.
•
 Promoting 5G energy-saving technology. 
The Company conducted in-depth research on key technologies for 5G energy conservation, 
installed small air-conditioning and energy-saving equipment such as fresh air, and made full use of clean energy, appropriate hibernation, time-specific shutdown and other measures to reduce the high energy consumption of 5G. Based on the concept of green environmental protection, the Company built the “4G/5G collaborative intelligent energy-saving management platform” to achieve intelligent coordination of multi-mode network and differentiated energy-saving management with “one policy for one station”, so as to promote the sustainable development of communication networks in a green, efficient and intelligent manner.
•
 Building 
green data centres. The newly-built communication equipment room (including data centres) strictly followed the requirements of 
the national and local industry authorities on environmental impact assessment and environmental protection acceptance. The Company introduced high-voltage direct current and municipal direct power supply technology, simplified the power supply system, optimised the air flow organisation of equipment rooms, and made full use of natural cold sources, air conditioning atomisation, closed cold and heating channels and other means to reduce power supply loss and improve cooling efficiency.
•
 Promoting the optimisation and upgrading of production capacity. 
114 sets of MGW equipment for core network were decommissioned. 
40 sets of PSTN equipment and 27 sets of NGN equipment for integrated access network were decommissioned. Approximately 45,000 ports of outdated MSTP/SDH equipment and approximately 897 ports of outdated WDM equipment were retired from the transmission network, with a completion rate of 187%. 62 sets of DCN backbone equipment for data network were decommissioned. The Company continued to retire aging equipment for ancillary infrastructure, saving electricity costs of approximately RMB23.95 million for the year.
•
 Strengthening 
the management of electromagnetic radiation. In the construction of mobile communication base stations, the Company 
strengthened the management of electromagnetic radiation of base stations to ensure that the electromagnetic radiation of base stations met the requirements of national standards. After the completion of base station construction, base stations were tested for electromagnetic radiation, and the test data were disclosed to the public on the web for public supervision.Establishing 3 major carbon management systems
Carbon data management system, carbon footprint 
management system, energy trading management systemFocusing on 5 major green development directions
Low-carbon operation of mobile base stations, green and low-carbon data centres, green and low-carbon recon/f_iguration of communication equipment rooms, network streamlining and optimisation, decommissioning of legacy equipment, and intelligent energy management
Deepening and expanding co-build co-share
Deeply promoting co-build co-share of industry infrastructure resources, and expanding the scope of cooperation targets on a pilot basisDigital empowerment of industry applications
Digital empowerment of industry applications to help thousands of industries to save energy and reduce carbon emission 
China Unicom Guangdong Branch 
conducted its work with a view to achieving dual 
carbon goals. During the year, by simplifying the network, eliminating legacy capacity, carrying out technical energy conservation and power tariff reduction, and reconfiguring its green and low-carbon equipment rooms, China Unicom Guangdong Branch reduced energy consumption costs by RMB41.44 million, saving 5,100 tons of standard coal.
Carrying out green and low-carbon equipment room reconfigurationEnergy-saving technology coverage rate of 
base stations
75 %Energy-saving technology coverage rate of core equipment rooms (including IDC)
85 %
China Unicom Sustainability Report 202148
China Unicom innovated the “volunteer revitalisation” 
working model and launched volunteer revitalisation team to 
reallocate idle information terminals in good operating condition to improve the office terminal configuration of front-line personnel in economically backward areas and disaster-hit areas. In 2021, the total scale of information terminal revitalisation reached RMB20.11 million, including 905 computers, as well as certain printers, scanners, servers, switch and other terminal equipment, for a total of 1,202 terminals.China Unicom Beijing Branch has formulated energy-saving 
plans, energy-saving initiatives and implementation plans for water, 
heating and electricity. It refined energy consumption ledger of water, heating and electricity, implemented green network operations and promoted energy conservation and consumption reduction in office premises. In accordance with the Green Logistics Action Plan of China Unicom Beijing Branch, it actively promoted group logistics express open market application and assisted related units to put more than 300 idle assets and materials such as tables and chairs on the shelves of second-hand shops.
In May 2021, the “4G/5G Collaborative Intelligent 
Energy Saving Management” of China Unicom Research Institute project won the WSIS ICT Electronic Environment Group Champion Award.
“4G/5G Collaborative Intelligent Energy Saving Management” 
Project Award Certificate
Promoting green and low-carbon operation
China Unicom actively carried out green office, green product design and business services, built a green supply chain system, and deepened resource 
recycling.
•
 Practicing green office. 
The Company unswervingly implemented the concept of “green office”, adopted high-efficiency energy-saving and 
environmental-friendly products and built resource-saving and environment-friendly office buildings around office air conditioners, building elevators, office lighting, employee canteens and other office and living scenarios. We have formulated special measures for vehicle fuel saving and consumption reduction, and timely scrapped vehicles that had reached the end of life, failed to meet environmental standards, and had high consumption of fuel and material maintenance. The Company continued to promote the digital operation of business outlets, actively guided users to sign up services online, and realised digital operation and paperless signups.
•
 Reasonable use of water resources. 
Strictly complying with the relevant requirements of the “Water Law of the People’s Republic of China” and 
the “Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law of the People’s Republic of China”, we strengthened daily water conservation management, and improved the reuse of water resources from trivial issues, such as using surplus water for cleaning, dust removal or watering, collecting rainwater for outdoor green space irrigation. We strengthened equipment maintenance and inspection to avoid leakage. The Company’s daily office and production and operation water is mainly sourced from municipal unified water supply, and there is no risk of water pollution.
•
 Building a green supply chain. 
The Company issued the Notice on China Unicom Strengthening the Independent and Controllable Supply Chain 
and Encouraging the Development of Green and Low-Carbon Procurement, and separately set out green and low-carbon requirements in the centralised procurement of 5G and other network equipment to increase the weight of energy-saving KPIs. We required suppliers to provide products that meet the requirements of green packaging, not to use toxic and hazardous substances as packaging materials, and to use recyclable, degradable or harmless packaging materials to avoid excessive packaging.
•
 Strengthening recycling. 
The Company established an internal revitalisation mechanism for idle materials based on fair market value, and the 
accumulative revitalisation and allocation of materials amounted to RMB78 million. Public auctions for disposed assets were held through online auction platforms. The transaction value amounted to RMB456 million, of which retired batteries accounted for RMB122 million and other scrapped materials accounted for RMB334 million.
•
 Carrying out green publicity. 
By fully leveraging activities such as the National Energy Conservation Publicity Week and the National Low-carbon Day, 
the Company organised energy conservation publicity activities both online and offline, and educated and guided employees to practice green consumption and low-carbon lifestyle, so as to improve the awareness of energy conservation, emission reduction and environmental protection of all employees, and create a new fashion of green and low-carbon life.China Unicom Digital Technology Co., Ltd. focused on the construction of a 
low-carbon data centres. By using energy-saving technologies and operating measures 
such as natural cold source, equipment dynamic frequency adjustment control, UPS operation mode, etc., we achieved power saving of approximately 9,974,000 kWh and reduced 9,943.7 tons of carbon dioxide emissions. In the feasibility study for data centre construction projects, energy saving solutions were prepared. We actively introduced renewable energy on a pilot basis to meet ancillary office energy consumption and increased the usage mix of green electricity through market-based transactions.  Langfang and Hohhot data centres were rated for 5 consecutive years as the “Advanced Unit of Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction” Guian and Hohhot data centres were included in the National Green Data Centres List.
Guian Data Centre was included in the National Green 
Data Centres List49
 Strengthening green empowerment of industries
China Unicom gave full play to its technological advantages in 5G, cloud computing, Big Data, Internet of Things and AI, focused on key scenarios 
such as carbon emission reduction, smart water conservancy and environmental monitoring, developed green and intelligent application products, and 
launched informatised green solutions to empower the green transformation and upgrade of thousands of industries.
Building “Dual Carbon Cloud” intelligent products. We built a “dual-carbon” Big Data platform to form a general capability foundation. 
We strengthened the development of carbon emission management software to realise the functions of carbon emission quantification, analysis, management and reporting. The Company built an application centre to support the access of various double-carbon applications, and closely integrated with the power, industry, construction, steel, transportation and other industries to improve low-carbon management. We built a unified dual-carbon data resource system, innovated the dual-carbon management decision-making service model, and improved the dual-carbon indicator system and evaluation system.
China Unicom Zhejiang Branch built a 5G power virtual 
private network for State Grid Hangzhou Power Supply Company, 
empowering the creation of a “zero-carbon” Asian Games energy Internet model. The investment in communication and optical cables decreased by RMB60 million, and the average annual power outage time decreased by 42%, and it was expected to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 550,000 tons in the year.
“Zero Carbon” Asian Games Energy Internet Model
Innovating smart water conservancy solutions. Focusing on key areas such as water resource development and utilisation, flood and drought 
prevention, rural water conservancy, water ecology, and water environment, we promoted the modernisation of water governance system and water 
governance capabilities, created smart water conservancy with thorough perception, comprehensive interconnection, in-depth exploration, intelligent application, and ubiquitous service, and realised the whole-process intelligent management and control of water-related events perception, supervision and decision-making.
China Unicom Fujian Branch earnestly implemented the new 
positioning of the Ministry of Water Resources on the national water 
conservancy work deployment, innovatively created a river and lake chief system and smart water conservancy demonstration benchmark, assisted in the digital transformation of water conservancy, realised resource integration, improved work efficiency, and reduced social management costs, which were highly praised by all sectors of society. The platform has served more than 20,000 river chiefs, river chief officers, special management officers and the general public, supporting more than 2.4 million river patrol services every year and handling more than 200,000 river and lake incidents.
5G + UAV river patrol technology architecture
Launching the environmental monitoring program of “one network with unified management”. Focusing on the comprehensive supervision 
of ecological environment, ecological environment Big Data and other fields, the Company created solutions such as “China Unicom Ecological 
Environment Big Data Platform” and “Classification of Domestic Waste of Urban Residents”, and implemented the comprehensive management system of ecological environment inspection and the “one network with unified management” project of ecological environment in Xiong’an, Shandong, Zhejiang, Shanghai and other provinces and cities to achieve cross-departmental, cross-level and cross-regional ecological environment data sharing, and realise digital, convenient and accurate management.
China Unicom Sustainability Report 202150
On 25 February 2021, the National Poverty Alleviation Summary and 
Commendation Conference was held at the Great Hall of the People. China 
Unicom Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid Leadership Group was awarded “National Advanced Group for Poverty Alleviation”.
Targeted poverty alleviation work won the title of “National 
Advanced Group for Poverty Alleviation”
Through the coordination of six tasks, including policies, systems, personnel, projects, organisations and appraisal, the Company provided 
all-round support for the in-depth, practical and successful rural revitalisation. We strengthened typical guidance, built a “publicity team” for 
rural revitalisation, created a good atmosphere, and guided more cadres and employees to pay attention to rural revitalisation, participate in rural revitalisation, and help rural revitalisation. Promoting Comprehensive Rural Revitalisation
2021 is a year when China achieved a comprehensive victory in poverty alleviation and successfully started to implement the strategy of rural 
revitalisation. The rural revitalisation strategy is a comprehensive and historic task related to the construction of a modern socialist country in an all-round way, and is the general focus of “Agriculture, Rural Areas and Farmers” work in the new era. Rural revitalisation must be pursued before national rejuvenation. China Unicom resolutely implemented the requirements of “four things not to remove”, effectively enhanced the sense of mission and responsibility of helping rural revitalisation, ensured that work was not reduced, capital investment was not reduced, policy support was not reduced, and the strength of assistance was not reduced. It took multiple measures and made continuous efforts to comprehensively promote rural revitalisation and consolidate and expand the achievements of poverty alleviation.
 Improving our position and coordinating rural revitalisation
China Unicom further optimised and sorted out the three major systems formed by the Group in poverty alleviation, namely the Work System 
for Big Poverty Alleviation, the Responsibility Division System for Targeted Poverty Alleviation and the Work System for Promoting Poverty Alleviation with Industrial Development as the Core, which continued to serve as the basic system and work requirements for supporting rural revitalisation.
Completed the rotation of temporary cadres, the first secretary of the village and the 
members of the working team in the village of
1,493  people
Relying on its technological capabilities with independent 
innovation, China Unicom integrated 5G applications, remote sensing, 
ecological data standardisation, data governance, environmental monitoring IoT, edge cloud and other capabilities, to independently develop a smart ecological environment platform, achieving 5G full-scenario coverage of smart monitoring of ecological environment in Xiong’ an New Area. It built an integrated ecological environment smart monitoring system of “Tiandidian” and improved the alert and early warning, informatisation and protection of ecological environment monitoring.
Demonstration of Ecological Environment Smart Monitoring System in 
Xiong’an New Area
                      Appraisal alignment                            Policy alignment
                             Organisational alignment Project alignment
‧ 24 assistance projects were completed as scheduledPersonnel alignmentSystem alignment
‧ Took helping rural revitalisation as a broad stage 
for training cadres. The /f_irst secretary and task force 
stationed in the village were selected and deployed based on merits. More than 1,500 assistance cadres were on duty throughout the Group
‧ Regularly carried out training for assistance cadres, 
and made efforts to build a strong assistance cadres team who were capable to help‧ Sorted out, revised, improved and clari/f_ied more than 10 systems 
 to ensure rule-based approach to help rural revitalisation
‧ The Group and 31 provinces set up leading groups 
and of/f_ices for helping rural revitalisation to coordinate industry support, targeted support and dedicated assistance
‧ The leaders of the Group and the designated assistance counties visited each other six times during the year• Issued Implementation Opinions on 
China Unicom’s Efforts to Assist Rural Revitalisation
‧ Formulated China Unicom's 14th Five-Year Plan for Dedicated Assistance to Tibet
‧ Incorporated the headquarters’ targeted assistance work into the 14th Five-Year Plan of the Company
‧ Incorporated the important work of consumption assistance and “digital village” construction in the assistance sites into the assessment of the Group
‧ Integrated work style construction into the whole process of helping rural revitalisation, and seriously investigated and dealt with inaction and dereliction of duty51
                      Appraisal alignment                            Policy alignment
                             Organisational alignment Project alignment
‧ 24 assistance projects were completed as scheduledPersonnel alignmentSystem alignment
‧ Took helping rural revitalisation as a broad stage 
for training cadres. The /f_irst secretary and task force 
stationed in the village were selected and deployed based on merits. More than 1,500 assistance cadres were on duty throughout the Group
‧ Regularly carried out training for assistance cadres, 
and made efforts to build a strong assistance cadres team who were capable to help‧ Sorted out, revised, improved and clari/f_ied more than 10 systems 
 to ensure rule-based approach to help rural revitalisation
‧ The Group and 31 provinces set up leading groups 
and of/f_ices for helping rural revitalisation to coordinate industry support, targeted support and dedicated assistance
‧ The leaders of the Group and the designated assistance counties visited each other six times during the year• Issued Implementation Opinions on 
China Unicom’s Efforts to Assist Rural Revitalisation
‧ Formulated China Unicom's 14th Five-Year Plan for Dedicated Assistance to Tibet
‧ Incorporated the headquarters’ targeted assistance work into the 14th Five-Year Plan of the Company
‧ Incorporated the important work of consumption assistance and “digital village” construction in the assistance sites into the assessment of the Group
‧ Integrated work style construction into the whole process of helping rural revitalisation, and seriously investigated and dealt with inaction and dereliction of dutyAlignment in six key work areas of rural revitalisation
We carried out two on-site training courses on “Digital Village” for assistance cadres and relevant personnel of the rural revitalisation offices 
nationwide, and uploaded the training courses to China Unicom Online College. A total of more than 5,000 assistance cadres were trained online and 
offline.
 Universal service for building information highway in rural areas
Everything we do is for the needs of the public. China Unicom overcame difficulties such as tough construction environment, difficult 
construction and long distance, and built an information highway for villages and remote areas to bring information benefits to people.
•
 The Company vigorously promoted the construction of rural revitalisation network, orderly promoted the seventh and eighth batch
es of 
pilot projects for rural universal services and the construction of China Unicom’s special poverty alleviation network. Broadband covered 327,000 administrative villages, including 244,000 administrative villages in 10 northern provinces, with a coverage rate of 98%.
•
 We
 strengthened the construction of network channels in remote poverty-stricken areas to make our services closer to rural life. The number 
of channels in rural areas and remote poverty-stricken areas reached nearly 230,000.
In order to solve the perennial problem of no network signal coverage in the poor 
and remote mountainous areas of Wulong District, China Unicom Chongqing Branch 
actively carried out universal telecommunication services and devoted itself to the construction of base stations in mountainous areas. “If there are no lanes, we will carry them by hand; if the mountain is high and steep, we will team up and march together; if the road is slippery, we will stay in the station to seize the construction period.” It fully completed and opened 27 base stations to achieve full coverage of 4G network, and paved a smooth information road for the local people with the original mission of post and telecommunications people. 
Base station construction in Wulong poor  
remote mountainous areaChina Unicom Sustainability Report 202152
In order to help the villagers in Dongjiu Village, Xiangxi 
Prefecture, Hunan Province to lead a good life, China Unicom 
Hunan Branch, taking into account the characteristics of local soil and suitable crop types, invested RMB2.48 million to build a gold tea industrial park with nearly 800 mu. After the tea trees become mature, more than 50 kilograms of fresh tea leaves can be harvested every mu.
Technician guiding villagers in Dongjiu Village, Xiangxi Prefecture to pick 
up tea leaves
China Unicom Guizhou Branch continued to carry out rural 
revitalisation, assisted 1 county (Ceheng) and 20 villages in a targeted manner, dispatched 23 cadres for rural revitalisation. It prepared the “14th Five Year” Ceheng industrial assistance plan to provide financial support for further consolidating and expanding poverty alleviation results. In November 2021, the National Rural Revitalisation Bureau published the “China Unicom’s Support for Ceheng County to Build a Whole Industry Chain Development Landscape of Glutinous Rice Banana”, which focused on reporting excellent experience and practices and was promoted to the central designated assistance units and local authorities.
Ceheng County Glutinous Rice Banana Plantations Enriching people by industry and broadening the channels for farmers to increase income
The key to agricultural and rural work is to increase farmers’ income in essence. Industrial revitalisation is the material foundation for rural 
revitalization. Industrial poverty alleviation is the way out, and finding the right path is essential for further promoting rural revitalisation.
Creating advantages in featured agricultural products
China Unicom continued to carry out targeted assistance, actively penetrated into the front line, and cultivated new industries and new business 
models based on the local actual circumstances, so as to help farmers further expand income channels.Qianliyan Island is the farthest island of the Yellow Sea waters of Shandong Province from the mainland. The natural environment is harsh with no 
mobile network signal, and the daily necessities are extremely scarce. The Qianliyan lighthouse on the island has been in operation for 77 years, and the 
only way of entertainment for lighthouse workers was to watch satellite television. In order to solve the “last kilometer” problem in the communications of Qianliyan Island, 12 construction personnel of China Unicom Qingdao Branch embraced difficulties and stayed on the island for 18 days to carry out construction, covering the surrounding 30 kilometers of sea area with 4G network and voice calls. China Unicom staff realised the dream of “making the century-old navigation channel lighthouse and modern communication technology come together”, so that the island is no longer isolated and family bonds are no longer cut off.
Base Station Construction at Qianliyan Lighthouse
53
 Building an Integrated and Open Ecosystem
Open cooperation is a historical trend, and mutual benefit and win-win are the expectations of the people. China Unicom has always adhered 
to the cooperation concept of “mutual consultation, co-build, co-share, co-creation, integration and win-win” and insisted on wider, broader and 
deeper open cooperation. It created a new ecological system covering the innovation chain, industry chain and value chain, and built a “joint fleet” with partners to achieve complementary advantages and mutual empowerment of all parties, in order to accelerate the integration of factors and resources, and jointly meet the people’s ever-growing wonderful digital life.
 Launching a new ecological cooperation initiative
The 2021 China Unicom Partners Conference was held on 6 December 2021. The theme of the conference was “Embarking on New Journey 
and Gathering Momentum for a Better Future”. The conference aimed to fully demonstrate the digital technology achievements of China Unicom and its global partners, and jointly draw a blueprint for the development of digital economy. Liu Liehong, chairman of the Company, delivered a keynote speech titled “Anchoring the Main Channel of Digital Economy, Win New Future of Digital World” and released China Unicom’s new strategy.
Zhang Zehui, the in-village “First Secretary” of China Unicom 
Hegang Branch in Heilongjiang, led villagers to carry out online sales 
and picking activities of agricultural products. Through online ordering, direct sourcing from the place of origin, and delivery to home, farmers increased their income by RMB10,000 each year. He coordinated with the County Disabled Persons’ Federation for many times, invested RMB60,000 in the village, built six smart greenhouses, and mobilised the disabled poor households to develop the lepista sordida planting industry. With his help and coordination, the village developed a number of poverty alleviation industries. Villagers were able to earn more income, lead a better life and be happier.
Helping farmers grow crops
Innovating on agricultural products promotion methods
China Unicom vigorously carried out activities such as smart rural red research, promotion of beautiful rural culture and tourism, and live 
broadcast of agricultural product traceability. In combination with digital rural construction and digital live broadcast technology, China Unicom created a channel for agricultural products to “connect to the Internet” and “upgrade”, and accelerated the cultivation of a batch of well-known, high-quality and niche rural e-commerce product brands.
China Unicom Tianjin Branch carried out live broadcast to help 
rural revitalisation, innovatively created a brand for “live broadcast 
competition of Tianjin Rural Harvest Festival” and supported the digital transformation of agriculture. The “Unicom KOL” live broadcast studio enriched the sales channels of agricultural products, cultivated the KOL team for live broadcast in rural areas, “enhanced” agricultural brands and reputation, refined the quality of life of people, and won wide recognition from all walks of life.
China Unicom Tianjin Branch Agricultural Products Live Streaming
In order to accelerate the construction of a digital ecosystem featuring “diversified co-build, complementary and mutual promotion, cross-
domain integration, and coopetition”, China Unicom joined hands with friends from all walks of life to create a new model of industrial cooperation 
and jointly write a new chapter of digital economy with sincerity, open-mindedness and practical actions.  We issued three new initiatives:China Unicom Sustainability Report 202154
China Unicom Heilongjiang Branch and China Telecom Heilongjiang Branch 
jointly developed a 5G construction operation system. Relying on ultra-high-
precision map simulation and Big Data platform resources, the system realised automatic planning, value-accretive network construction, efficient operation and maintenance, and intelligent optimisation for the whole process, driving a new 5G development paradigm with faster construction, higher resource efficiency, better service quality, and more rational coopetition order.
Under the premise of co-build and co-share with China Telecom, the 
Company actively carried out strategic cooperation in the industry and reached a consensus with State Grid Electric Power, City Investment and Communications Group in sharing resources of pole towers, optical fibre cables and local offices.
5G construction joint operation system of Heilongjiang branches of 
China Unicom and China Telecom
China Unicom Henan Branch promoted co-build and co-share of 
5G network with China Telecom across the province, and had put into 
service more than 42,500 5G base stations in total, covering all cities, counties and towns. It actively cooperated with partners to build a series of 5G typical applications, such as the first commercial application of autonomous driving bus line in China, the first 5G + MEC intelligent application in ultra-high voltage power substation in China, and the first 5G pan-low air testing centre in China, providing new momentum for the high-quality development of Henan’s economy and society.
5G base station maintenanceCumulative investment saved 
through co-build co-share  for the country
RMB210  billionThe operating cost saved 
exceeded 
RMB20  billion/yearEmissions reduced 
 
6 million tons
• Deepening cooperation in the innovation chain 
and strengthening the national strategic technological
 
power. Adhering to the principle of “open door for 
innovation, co-creation for win-win”, we worked with all parties to carry out more in-depth collaborative innovation and released the “Technological Innovation Cooperation Plan”.
•
 Deepening industry chain cooperation and
 
expanding new space for digital development. We worked together with all parties in the industry for win-win and sharing, fully opened up our capabilities, comprehensively met demands, and efficiently cooperated in planning formulation, business alignment, procurement settlement, model innovation, etc.
•
 Deepening cooperation in the value chain
 
and better integrating into the new development paradigm. We further strengthened collaboration with industry partners and investors, enhanced factor allocation and support capabilities, and promoted the improvement of the value chain.
 Cooperating with fellow operators for new win-win development
China Unicom conscientiously implemented the deployment of new infrastructure, deepened network co-build co-share, realised the integration of digital information 
infrastructure resources, protected industry value, promoted sustainable development of the industry, and built a solid digital base for the construction of Cyber Superpower, Digital China and Smart Society.
Promoting co-build co-share in all aspects
The Company continued to promote the co-build co-share of 5G, 4G and basic network resources with China Telecom, and continued to expand the breadth, depth and 
thickness of the network.
•
 The 
scale and coverage of 5G network was comparable to the industry. The two parties jointly built 690,000 5G base stations, covering all urban areas of cities and 
counties as well as developed towns and above in China.
•
 The Company actively carried out 4G network co-build co-share and added 1.4 million new 4G shared districts, with the total rea
ching more than 2 million.
•
 The Company expanded the scope of cooperation in infrastructure co-build, co-share and co-maintain. It co-built and co-shared m
ore than 400,000 kilometers of trunk 
lines, optical cables, pole lines and pipelines, saving more than RMB4,000 million investment and RMB200 million maintenance costs per year. The Company further promoted 
the cooperation in cloud-network integration, communication equipment room, international submarine cable, emergency support and other aspects to realise the synergy potential.
•
 The Company eliminated the monopoly of broadband in residential and commercial buildings to ensure the simultaneous exercise an
d fair access of 
telecommunications infrastructure construction.55
Firmly safeguarding the sustainable development of the industry
The Company unswervingly implemented the requirements of the central government for inspection and rectification, resolutely rectified the 
vicious competition at the expense of customers’ interests and industry value, drove the entire industry to form a benign situation of coopetition, continuously unleashed development dividends, and helped the healthy and sustainable development of the industry. It fully played its role as a “stabiliser and ballast” of national economy, and vigorously promoted the construction of Cyber Superpower, Digital China and Smart Society.
 Promoting in-depth cooperation in the industry chain
China Unicom actively worked with all parties to build a safe, innovative, smooth and efficient industrial chain and supply chain, creating value 
for customers with digital technology, and driving the integration, innovation and coordinated development of the industrial chain.
Deepening cooperation with equipment suppliersThe Company strengthened the standardised management of material procurement, built a digital supply chain platform, and drove equipment 
suppliers to actively fulfill their social responsibilities.
•
 Strengthening 
standardised management. All projects subject to tender in accordance with the law conducted public tenders in strict 
accordance with the requirements of national laws and regulations. For projects not subject to mandatory tender, in accordance with the open procurement principle of the SASAC, the Company innovated on transaction tools such as open selection and open direct purchase, and selected qualified suppliers through the supply chain platform. The entry barrier for suppliers was lowered and the product technology qualification system was widely adopted, so that small suppliers could participated in procurement activities fairly. China Unicom conducted credibility reviews for enterprises in tendering and procurement activities, and prohibited rule-violating enterprises from participating in tenders. The amount of centralised procurement stood at approximately RMB 128,380 million.
•
 Building 
a digital supply chain. The Company improved the electronic bidding platform and promoted the “online remote bid evaluation” 
model during the pandemic to achieve centralised and transparent procurement. The risk rules and data models were embedded into the system to enable automatic risk identification, early warning and control throughout the entire supply chain processes. The Company enhanced the capability of e-commerce platform and provided diversified and convenient procurement support services for the basic networks. We established a unified supplier information database and built a “supplier portrait” to provide support for procurement review and supplier evaluation.
Strengthening cooperation with terminal suppliersThe Company vigorously built a new pan-terminals ecosystem with the characteristics of China Unicom, strengthened the empowerment 
and guidance to terminal suppliers, expanded the operational boundaries, enriched product categories, and strengthened integrated operations to achieve common development.
•
 Empowering partners with 
intelligence. Relying on the service portal of terminal partners, the Company provided partners with one-stop 
services such as technical specifications, access guidelines, performance testing and product display. In 2021, it added more than 100 terminal suppliers and 15 service providers, privilege providers and financial service providers, with a total of over 300 partner brands. It sold a total of 25.95 million pan-intelligent terminals.
•
 Guiding terminal suppliers to fulfill their responsibilities. 
The Company strengthened the management of mobile malware. Terminal 
suppliers promised not to install malware in terminal products. It timely and dynamically communicated and understood the preventive measures adopted by terminal suppliers in terminal software. It required partners to conscientiously implement the national 3C (China Compulsory Certification) and SRRC (National Radio Management Committee) certifications for terminal products. The Company actively communicated with terminal suppliers with negative news, set up a special team to quickly implement customer complaints, information verification, customer comfort and other work, so as to reduce the negative impact on the society and maintain the corporate image and reputation.Total number of e-commerce 
platform vendors
71,00014,000
new vendors in the year
Indicators 2019 2020 2021
Centralised procurement ratio (%) 90.6 91.4 96.7
Proportion of local suppliers (%) >99 >99 >99
Proportion of electronic procurement (%) 68 88 96China Unicom Sustainability Report 202156
Vigorously expanding channel cooperation
Adhering to the concept of coordinated development, open cooperation and win-win cooperation, the Company promoted the digital 
transformation of channel partners through online and offline joint innovation and mutual empowerment to enhance value, creating a win-win-win situation among operators, channel partners and users.
•
 Strengthening the complementary advantages of channels. 
Seizing the window of 5G handset upgrade, the Company seamlessly 
integrated its products and services into manufacturers’ channels to promote the scale development of 5G. The Company made comprehensive use of financial installment, electronic coupons, supply chain finance and other capabilities to help the transformation of channel partners. The Company continuously improved the digital capabilities of its IT systems and promoted the use of ZhangWoTong APP in all channels, so as to quickly introduce new partners, sign up services and share revenue, and improve the efficiency and return of partners.
•
 Promoting channel partners to fulfill their
 
responsibilities. The Company strictly implemented real-name 
registration business requirements, controlled risks at the source of account opening, eliminated potential risks, and fortified the “first line of defense” for security protection of SIM cards. The Company improved the prevention and control capabilities of the marketing and sales tools of ZhangWoTong and comprehensively applied the human image comparison technology and ID card verification equipment, etc.. While enhancing the convenience of customer service, it further strengthened the risk management process and helped channel partners carry out business activities in compliance with laws and regulations. 
At the 2021 China Unicom Partners Conference Channel and Terminal 
Ecosystem Cooperation Forum themed “Gathering Momentum with One 
Heart to Achieve Ecological Win-win”, the deputy general manager He Biao proposed to integrate and cooperate with all parties in the industry chain in the future to jointly build a new ecosystem of channel cooperation, a new ecosystem of terminal synergy, and a new ecosystem of pan-terminal technology sharing, and jointly expand new potential for digital development.
Jointly building a new ecosystem of digital channel cooperation of 
“Three Connections”: To give full play to the advantages of flat and agile operation, marketing service capacity and Internet big connection, and strive to jointly build a new ecosystem of digital channels of “integrated products, interoperable data and smooth marketing” with the industrial chain.
Jointly building a new smart terminal operation model of “Three Integrations”: To give full play to the advantages of the precise handset 
replacement insights of millions of existing users and the precise terminal network-business alignment of 5G and broadband, and cooperate with partners to expand the development scale of “5G terminal integration, smart home pan-terminal integration, and industrial application intelligent terminal integration”.
Jointly creating a new future of flourishing development of three-gigabit smart terminals: To give full play to the advantages of cloud-network 
integration, computing-network integration and Intelligence Brain, carry out in-depth cooperation with partners, jointly set standards for terminals and pan-terminals, break the shortcomings of terminal chips, and jointly build a modern digital supply chain.
China Unicom established the Joint Laboratory of Pan-terminal 
Technology and Ecological Innovation. 21 enterprises including 
Huawei, Shanghai Quectel and Unisoc signed up to be the first batch of partners in the laboratory. The laboratory will focus on four major segments, namely technology and standards, testing methods and capabilities, business and application, and core technology research, so as to promote a new pan-terminals ecosystem with technologies.
Launched the Joint Laboratory of Pan-terminal Technology and 
Ecological Innovation
China Unicom jointly launched the “Channel Ecological Coop-
eration Alliance” with Xiaomi, D.Phone, Davao, JD.com and other 
partners. Through the integration of channel partners’ strengths and wisdom, the Company continuously upgraded its channel ecosystem model to promote the sustainable development of channels.
Officially launched the Channel Ecological Cooperation Alliance
Approximate number of channel 
partners at the end of 2021
200,00057
 Flourishing digital cooperation new ecosystem
Facing the vast blue ocean of digital economic development, China Unicom continued to deepen cooperation with strategic investors and 
leading enterprises in industry verticals to jointly build a Big Application ecosystem with integrated, open and win-win cooperation, and serve the 
digital transformation, intelligent upgrading and integrated innovation in various fields of the economy and society.
Expanding new information consumption cooperation
The Company gave full play to the advantages of strategic partners in smart terminals, AI, Big Data, content and other fields to 
jointly provide customers with high-quality products and services.
•
 The Company cooperated with Baidu to sell 867,000 Xiaodu speakers and 190,000 WiFi6 routers. The smart customer service 
voice AI portal was launched in 31 provinces, with a smart service ratio of 80.2% and a national end-to-end recognition rate of
 94%.
•
 The Company cooperated with Tencent to launch the Jiasubao product to reduce lag, latency and packet loss in games and
 
improve user experience.
•
 The Company cooperated with Alibaba in the development of financial installment products, built China Unicom Digital Assistant 
through Alibaba Cloud, and upgraded product functions.
At the same time, the Company actively strengthened cooperation with ecological partners to jointly create strategic and innova
tive 
basic innovative products.
• T
he Company cooperated with partners such as Xinhuanet and the National Warning and Release Centre to promote the 
pre-commercial trial of 5G messages.
•
 Th
e Company cooperated with iQIYI, Bilibili, Mango TV, ByteDance and other partners to carry out video targeted traffic value 
management.
•
 The Company cooperated with CCTV Cloud, Himalaya, Mango Active, China Literature Limited, iFLYTEK and other partners to
 
launch online audio and digital reading products.
•
 SIM-CTID, a SIM digital identity authentication product, was jointly launched with Anicert and other partners.
Deepening cooperation in industrial transformation and upgradeThe Company gave full play to the magnification, superposition and multiplication effect of digital technology on economic
 
development, joined hands with all parties in the industry to achieve win-win and sharing, fully opened up its capabilities, 
comprehensively met demand, and jointly served the demand for “cloudification, digital empowerment and intelligence” transformation and upgrade of hundreds of industries.
•
 The 
Company accelerated the promotion of 5G applications from “show flats” to “commodity flats”. Relying on the 5G application 
innovation alliance, we built an open 5G ecological platform, and worked with partners to engage in “team competition”.
•
 The Company planned and 
built an open China Unicom 5G Laboratory with Huawei and Unisoc, and developed a standardised 5G 
terminal R&D, testing and application process.
•
 The Company worked with partners to enrich the supply of security products and security operation services, and promoted the 
complementary advantages and coordinated development of the network and information security industry.
•
 The Company realised the large-scale promotion of key projects such as cooperative public cloud and joint venture cloud.
Building a capital cooperation ecosystem
The Company actively expanded and optimised its capital deployment. Focusing on serving national strategies and the Company’s 
strategic businesses, it built a bridge for the ecological cooperation between industry and capital, and jointly built a capita
l ecosystem 
with strategic investors and industry leaders to strengthen synergy, increase innovation, and improve value. By strengthening industry 
chain through investment, the Company empowered and promoted the coordinated development of the industry.
•
 The 
product and service capabilities of the seven joint ventures, namely Yunlizhihui, Yunjingwenlv, Yundun, Yundee, Yunqi, Cloud 
Broadcasting and Smart Steps, continued to improve.
• T
he Company continued to deepen cooperation with investors, leveraged their respective advantages, deepened capacity 
enhancement and product promotion in cloud computing, Big Data, AI, Internet touchpoints and other fields, and expanded strategic synergy.
•
 The 
Company further strengthened capital operation, focused on five main responsibilities and main businesses, and 
comprehensively used diversified methods such as investment, mergers and acquisitions, equity participation and funds to promote rapid breakthroughs in key areas such as Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei, Yangtze River Delta, Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, Sichuan-Shaanxi-Chongqing, as well as key business areas such as industrial Internet, Internet of Vehicles, smart city, smart medical care, smart education, smart home, integrated communication, edge computing and information security, so as to amplify the functions of state-owned capital.
•
 The Company set up a 5G parent fund on a scale of over RMB10 billion focusing on 5G industrial ecology and related application 
fields. It leveraged the resource advantages of basic telecom operators, took advantage of government policies and resource adv
antages, 
and mobilised social industry capital to accelerate the development of 5G innovative business.
•
 The Company promoted the market-oriented reform of professional subsidiaries in the fields of Internet of Vehicles and industri
al 
Internet. It promoted the introduction of strategic investors, mixed-ownership reform and listing of professional companies with high degree of marketisation, strong business independence, good development prospects and high valuation premium, and built a group of “specialised, niche, special and novel” enterprises with innovation capabilities and competitiveness.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202158
 Engaging in Public Charity to Benefit Society
China Unicom insisted on cultivating and practicing the core values of socialism and meeting the growing demand for social service of people. 
It actively took actions in providing aid to Tibet and Xinjiang, culture and sports, education, medical and health care, environmental protection, public 
welfare and other aspects, and continuously conveyed care and warmth to the society to serve the improvement of people’s livelihood.
 Actively carrying out charitable donations
China Unicom has always adhered to the principles of voluntariness, acting within capacity, clear rights and responsibilities, and honesty and 
trustworthiness, continuously improved the management system of charitable donations, actively assumed social responsibilities, strived to repay the society, and promoted the sustainable development of charitable undertakings.
Donation ProjectsAmount donated
RMB’000
Invested in assistance funds 109.5
Aid to border areas (aid to Tibet and Xinjiang) 357.8
Other donations (culture and sports, education, medical and 
health care, charity, environmental protection, etc.)1,615.2
Total 2,082.5RMB2,082,500
external donations in 2021
China Unicom further made great efforts to assist Tibet in the new era, and completed the “14th Five Year”Plan of China Unicom for Supporting Tibet. 
It increased its assistance in promoting industrial development, improving infrastructure construction, improving medical care and education capabilities, and 
strengthening interactions and exchanges among ethnic groups. During the year, it arranged 8 projects for Tibet assistance. The Company continued to carry out targeted assistance to Xinjiang. Through sending cadres to Xinjiang and carrying out smart assistance to Xinjiang, the Company took root in Xinjiang and made contributions to Xinjiang, thus creating a new path for central state-owned enterprises to help Xinjiang.
Improving infrastructure construction
China Unicom Jiangsu Branch launched smart assistance to Xinjiang Campus recruitment in the University of TibetCompany visits by cadres assisting Xinjiang
China Unicom (Sichuan) Industrial Internet Co., Ltd. has built a medical information system for Garze Tibetan Hospital, involving hospital outpatient management, 
inpatient management, comprehensive management, integrated platform, medical technology system, and TCM evidence-based system, while supporting the switch and display of Chinese and Tibetan, so that the ethnic minorities in Tibetan areas can feel the life convenience brought by medical informatisation.59
 Deepening inclusive communications services
Helping the elderly and the disabled are people’s livelihood projects that the state attaches great importance to. China Unicom continued to 
promote the implementation of various preferential policies and service measures for helping the elderly and the disabled, and strived to create a 
good information environment for the life and work of the underprivileged by doing practical things for them.
Smart elderly assistanceThe Company focused on building services and capabilities in areas such as “heart-warming” services for the elderly, “filial piety” products for 
the elderly, and “reassuring” terminals for the elderly, adhered to the original intention of doing practical things for the public, and continued to carry out publicity and optimisation work.
•
 The Company created “heart-warming” elderly services. It provided elderly care channels in the business outlets, launched a “ca
re version” 
of China Unicom APP, and enabled direct access to manual services in 10010 customer hotline. At present, 2,100 smart elderly assistance service centres have been set up in business outlets throughout the country. The 10010 hotline has provided services to the elderly for over 14 million times, and 42,000 offline elderly assistance activities have been held with 380,000 participants, helping the elderly to overcome the digital divide.
•
 The Company cre
ated the “filial piety” communication products for the elderly, and launched the silver age card, the filial piety card, the 
“WO Family Security Eye” and other products according to the actual needs of the elderly. In 2021, over 2.02 million users were benefited, and the accumulative communication tariff discounts exceeded RMB35.72 million.
•
 The Company built a variety of “reassuring” terminals for the 
elderly, meticulously self-developed and innovatively created intelligent 
communication terminal products for the elderly that were more user-friendly and useful, such as the “Little Assistant for the Elderly”, for which it has applied for national network access certification.
China Unicom Hainan Branch joined hands with the Library of Hainan Province to carry out the “E-era of Silver Age” smartphone charity 
classroom activity for the elderly. The elderly were guided on how to prevent fraudulent calls, and were helped to use WeChat, health code, 
payment and other common APP, so that the elderly were able, dare and willing to use smart products.
“E-era of Silver Age” Smartphone Charity Classroom for the Elderly
According to the reading habits of the elderly, China Unicom Hubei Branch has compiled the Manual of Assistance for the Elderly of China Unicom Hubei Branch 
with large fonts and pictures to help the elderly to easily master 10 uses of WeChat such as adding WeChat friends, video chat, and moments, etc. By means of 
information services to communities, nursing homes and other offline activities, the manual was distributed to the elderly and was widely praised.
Manual of Assistance for the Elderly
字这么小
写的啥呀
场景一DIBHOH!KJOH!ZJ鯫杛2跷12 鯫杛2跷13
1辱闹肉伍
磐辩BQQ微信字体放大
楚小服来帮您
China Unicom Sustainability Report 202160
Helping the disabled with warm heart
China Unicom cares for the communication service needs of people with disabilities and focuses on solving their service pain points.•
 The Company innovated on tech products and created the first barrier-free communication product for hearing-impaired people, na
mely the 
“Unicom Hearing King Card”, to realise real-time conversion of text and voice, and help hearing-impaired people realise barrier-free communication. China Unicom APP has a designated area for Hearing King Card. Special care personnel on the online customer service platform served users of the Hearing King Card for a total of 22,000 times with a 100% satisfaction rate.
•
 In cooperation with the National Disabled Persons’ Federation, National Association of the Deaf and China Association of the Bl
ind, the 
Company launched the nation-wide unified “Hearing King Card” and “Viewing King Card”. For all disabled users, the Group launched the nation-wide unified preferential packages for them. In 2021, more than 80 exclusive packages for the disabled were launched nationwide, benefiting approximately 553,800 disabled users, and the accumulative communication tariff discounts exceeded RMB 170 million.
•
 On 17 May, China Unicom cooperated with the National Association of the Deaf and successfully launched the first operator sign 
language 
live broadcast, covering a total of 15 internal and external platforms with 8.76 million viewers. At present, the Company has conducted a total of 7 heart-warming sign language live broadcasts and simultaneously created 35 communication knowledge videos for the disabled to help solve the communication service problems of the hearing impaired.
China Unicom Beijing Branch actively organised and conducted 
research on barrier-free navigation projects to develop Beijing’s 
barrier-free environment, improving the quality of life services for the disabled. The barrier-free navigation on-site experience trial was highly appraised by more than 20 leaders and experts from China Disabled Persons’ Federation and Beijing Disabled Persons’ Federation.The Company actively cooperated with Beijing Disabled Persons’ 
Federation and Beijing Deaf Association to hold the activity of “I do practical 
things for the public –barrier-free listening, helping the disabled with love”, donated communication products for disabled users on site worth RMB6 million and established a WeChat circle of friends for the hearing impaired. We set up a “designated area for Hearing King Card” in our own business outlets to allow hearing-impaired friends to enjoy heart-warming services.
Barrier-free navigation on-site experience trial “Barrier-free Listening, Helping the Disabled with Love” activity
On 3 December 2021, the 30th International Day for the Disabled, China Unicom Ganzhou Branch held a charitable activity with the theme of 
“Everyone Caring for the Disabled, Let Love Speak”. At the event, China Unicom Ganzhou Branch sent daily necessities to the hearing impaired. Our 
staff explained and demonstrated the features of the Hearing King Card at the event. Nearly 50 hearing impaired people participated in the event.
China Unicom Ganzhou Branch Assisting the Disabled61
 Actively participating in volunteering services
China Unicom combined the volunteer spirit of “dedication, friendship, mutual assistance and progress” with the goal of building a team 
of cadres and employees. Based on the work ideas of expanding the team, stimulating vitality, improving quality and advocating civilisation, it 
systemised the organisation and management system of volunteering services, standardised the construction of volunteering service teams and normalised volunteering service activities. It fulfilled social responsibilities, established a good corporate image, assisted the transformation and development of the Company and the construction of corporate culture, and promoted the high-quality development of the Company.
Caring for Every Little Thing and Building a WO Future Together – China Unicom created a points-based charity brand to support 
education
The program, based loyalty points, connected with 350 million customers of China Unicom to build a new model of diversified charity participation, 
and drive social forces to support targeted poverty alleviation. It was an active attempt for China Unicom to fulfill its social responsibilities and demonstrate 
its brand influence. In 2021, we provided nearly 40 services in total, with more than 500,000 participating volunteers. We donated “Love Libraries” to 132 Primary Schools in Southern Xinjiang, provided scholarships for 8,000 poor children, and sent 3,015 sets of warm winter supplies to Tibet children.
Donation ceremony of “Love Libraries” of China Unicom 
Bazhou Branch, XinjiangChina Unicom Tacheng Branch in Xinjiang launched the  
“Winter Olympics in the Love Libraries” and other primary and  
secondary school writing and painting competitions57,550
registered volunteers68,735
participation in volunteering service 
activities
On top of the traditional points-based donation, the Company further expanded into various charity activities such as “WO’s Reading”, “China 
Unicom Online Call Charge Thumbs-up” and “Tencent 99 Charity Day Double”.
The Network Department and the Winter Olympics Office of the Group jointly launched a series of volunteering services titled 
“Love Ignites Hope, Building Dream with China Unicom Together”China Unicom Sustainability Report 202162
China Unicom Xiaoyan, Service to Home – China Unicom Jiangsu Branch 
Xiaoyan Volunteer Service Brand
“Touching a city and warming a province. Standing with integrity and 
dedication, helping the elderly and caring for disabled, China Unicom Xiaoyan started 
from the needs of users, and made innovation and wisdom with a foot on the hot soil of Jiangsu.” In May 2021, China Unicom Jiangsu Branch Xiaoyan won the Service Innovation Award of “Touching China, Jiangsu Role Model of the Year”.
•
 China Uni
com Xiaoyan penetrated the community. During the COVID-19 
pandemic, China Unicom provided users with handset-to-home service, SIM card-to-
home service, broadband-to-home service and network-to-home service without fear of risks. The average user rating was 9.64 out of 10.
•
 China Unicom Xiaoyan went to the frontline of the fight against the
 
pandemic. In the face of the pandemic in Nanjing and Yangzhou, the volunteers from 
Xiaoyan rushed to support the front line and penetrated testing sites. They urgently purchased drinking water and snacks to help residents alleviate hunger; they helped the residents waiting for testing to scan codes, register, fill in data, and generate inspection information, fully supporting the efficient implementation of nucleic acid testing.
•
 Volunteers from China Unicom Xiaoyan also visited welfare homes, sanitation 
venues, and college entrance exams to carry out charity activities such as “Bringing 
Coolness 
by Xiaoyan” and “Caring for the Elderly, Moving Nanjing” to show care to 
users and the public with warm smiles and attentive service.
China Unicom Jiangsu Branch Xiaoyan Service 
in Community
China Unicom Jiangsu Branch Xiaoyan rushed to support 
the front line of the fight against the pandemic
China Information Technology Designing & Consulting Institute Company Limited and China Unicom Online Information Technology Company Limited  
jointly carried out a charity activity titled “Connecting You and Me with Heart-warming Education Support”
The Youth League Branch of Asset Operation Company held a warm winter clothing donation activity titled “Warm Clothes for the Winter”
Deeply Practiced the
Responsibility of Scientific and 
Technological Innovation 
with the Insight of 
“Trend”63
Deeply Practiced the
Responsibility of Scientific and 
Technological Innovation 
with the Insight of 
“Trend”China Unicom Sustainability Report 202164
• The Company optimised the scientific and technological  
innovation system, increased R&D investment, strengthened 
incentives for scientific and technological innovation, and released the “Torch Plan” of China Unicom ecological cooperation.
•
 The Company accelerated the creation of the original
 
technology sources and promoted major technical breakthroughs.
• The Company upgraded the smart middle platform,
 
integrated, and shared the core businesses, core capabilities, core data and core processes across the country, and built the smart middle platform into a key engine for comprehensive digital transformation.
•
 With the continuous improvement of industrial innovation
 
layout, the national engineering laboratory for the next-generation Internet broadband business application was included in the national engineering research centre for new sequence management, so as to create an innovative consortium of industry-university-research-application.Measures adopted in 2021
• The Company will actively carry out the construction  
of technological innovation ecosystem, continue to improve the technological innovation mechanism, and stimulate the potential of technological innovation.
•
 The Co
mpany will focus on the five main 
responsibilities and main businesses, i.e. Big Connectivity, Big Computing, Big Data, Big Application and Big Security, so as to promote the significant technology researches and achieve notable technological breakthroughs.
•
 The Company will continue to iterate and improve
 
the five middle platforms, four major APPs, the intelligent customer services, and strengthen its operational security, while improving the user perceptions as well.
•
 With reliance on the National Engineering Research 
Centre, the Company will actively participate and support key national strategic tasks and key projects.Actions to be taken in 2022Technology is the foundation of the country’s prosperity, and innovation is the soul of the nation’s development. China Unicom is 
committed to become the national team for the development in operations and services of digital information infrastructures, and target to be the key force in establishment of Cyber Superpower, Digital China and Smart Society, and the frontline troop in the integration and innovation of digital technologies. Focusing on serving national strategies, supporting and leading high-quality enhancement as its key development, the Company has upheld a strong coordination with its overall development and security, focused on improving the traction of original technology demand, source supply, resource allocation, transformation, and application capabilities. It has also accelerated the construction of a world-class enterprise, and strive to play a better role as a central enterprise in achieving self-reliance in the development of science, technology, and also building a modern industrial system.
 Deepening the Innovation of Scientific and Technological Innovation 
Mechanism
In order to promote independent innovation, it is undoubtedly crucial to overcome institutional barriers, and maximise the potential of technology as the 
primary productivity. China Unicom further deepened and improved the reform of the scientific and technological system, improved the scientific and technological innovation system and enhanced its organisational structure, and built an efficient scientific research system, in order to, improved its efficiency of the innovation system, and strived to stimulate innovation vitality.
 Improving the scientific and technological innovation system
China Unicom constantly improves its technological innovation system and optimizes its technological innovation organisation. In 2021, it established 
a leading group of scientific and technological innovation to coordinate the planning of technological innovation, to strengthen the basic management of technological innovation and increase the investment in research and development.
•
 China Unicom thoroughly implemented the requirements of the SASAC on promoting central enterprises to increase its capital inje
ction in scientific and 
technological innovation, and improved the intensity of R&D investment. By the end of 2021, R&D investment has reached RMB4.792 billion, representing a year-on-year increase of 61.7%.
•
 Explored and implemented the mechanism of “leadership revelation” and “horse racing”, and carried out 44 group-level technology
 research projects.
•
 In ter
ms of system and regulation, the Company managed to have a standardization of newly developed management activities, released the 
management measurements for R&D projects, the positive and negative list of R&D activities, and established the framework for the technological innovation process system.
•
 Built a comprehensive management plan for achieving the whole processes of scientific and technological development. It has als
o improved the 
management rules for the registration and identification of its development, and established a scientific and technological achievements specialized mechanism covering all branches and subsidiaries.
•
 Strengthened the construction of 
scientific and technological innovation talents, established the Group’s standard certification system for scientific and 
technological innovation capabilities, and introduced overseas high-level scientists.65
In December 2021, China Unicom officially released the 
“Scientific and Technological Innovation Cooperation Torch Plan” 
at the 2021 Partnership Conference to empower the five key responsibilities and businesses. It also consolidate the foundation for cooperative development. At the same time, it has also promoted and announced the development of the Reconfigurable Intelligent Surface (RIS) Technology Alliance Initiative and the Intelligent Super Perception Industry Joint Initiative.
 Increasing incentives for scientific and technological innovation
China Unicom has further improved its incentive system for scientific and technological innovation through extensive research and consultation. 
In 2021, the Group has issued RMB71,944,000 of awards for scientific and technological innovation development, which was doubled up as 
compared to 2020. It has continued to maintain a rapid growth momentum and greatly stimulated the vitality of scientific researchers.
•
 The Company increased the support of strategic incentive resources, including the development of the industrial chain length an
d technology 
resources. It has also enhanced the introduction of leading talents and innovation teams, the transformation of scientific and technological achievements, and the development of scientific and technological innovation activities.
•
 The Company has made good use of the medium and long-term incentive policy, and vigorously carried out equity dividend incentiv
es for 
technology-based enterprises. It has also actively carried out medium and long-term incentives for the transformation of scientific, technological achievements and share returns, furthermore, it also explored and implemented incentive methods in line with its own characteristics.
•
 The Company strengthened the incentive orientation of scientific and technological innovation, implemented differentiated incen
tive resource 
allocation, and increased the allocation of remuneration to the key scientific research personnel which is responsible for scientific research projects.
 Strengthening the ecological cooperation in scientific and technological innovation
China Unicom has adhered to open cooperation and strengthened the joint innovation of industry, university, research, and application. It has 
released the “Torch Plan” for China Unicom’s ecological cooperation, and put forward the “1 + 3 + 5 + N” scientific and technological innovation cooperation system. While focusing on the single blueprint of scientific and technological cooperation planning, it has established three cooperation models, which are, joint research and development, strategic investment and platform cooperation. It has also provided five major empowerments, through application demonstration, scale promotion, cooperation operation, research and procurement collaboration, investment and industry collaboration. Furthermore, it has also accelerated the implementation and operation in N forms, such as forming industrial alliances, joint laboratories,  developing industrial demonstration bases and getting capital support. The Company has established 7 joint laboratories with industry-leading scientific research units and universities such as Pengcheng Laboratory, Beijing Academy of Blockchain and Edge Computing, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Wuhan University and China Eastern Airlines. It has also signed 7 strategic agreements to carry out the construction of technological innovation ecosystem actively and effectively.
Announcing the China Unicom’s Scientific and Technological Innovation 
Cooperation Torch Plan
 Strengthening Core Technology Research
In order to firmly grasp the initiative of innovation and development, it is crucial to accelerate the technology growth of “bottleneck” in 
important fields, and break through the industrial bottleneck effectively. China Unicom has given a full play as the main role of central enterprises in 
the scientific and technological innovation, and bravely served as the “source” of original technology, tapped into the “no man land” of science and technology, accelerated the breakthrough of “bottleneck” technology in important fields, explored the potential of digital technology, and promoted the safety, stability, independency and controllability of the industrial chain and supply chain.
 Undertaking major national scientific research projects
China Unicom has adhered to the country’s major national needs and actively undertook major national scientific research projects.
Undertaking national projects
In 2021, China Unicom undertook 7 national key R&D projects and have passed all the inspections.•
 In the demonstration of “multi-mode network and communication”, the Company took the lead in showing the procedures of research
 and 
application of the industrial passive optical network architecture and system may smoothly conduct with ultra-low latency, ultra-large connection, safety, reliability, and also two other skills such as multi-scale network slicing and intelligent adaptation.
•
 The Company has undergone joint partnerships to take part in 8 special projects for the industrial basic reconstruction and hig
h-quality 
development of manufacturing industry.
•
 The Company led the major national science and technology project, “Research and Development and Test of 5G Business for Indust
rial 
Manufacturing” in order to achieve great research results. It has also won the second prize of Scientific Progression Award by the Chinese Institute of Electronics.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202166
Leading national key projects
•
 The key project under the 2018 National Key Research and Development Programme “High-Tech Winter Olympics – Constructing Reliab
le 5G 
Communication and Advanced Network Demonstration in Complex and Extreme Conditions” has achieved continuous 5G coverage over 87 Winter Olympics venues as well as the Beijing-Zhangjiakou High-speed Railway, Beijing-Chongli Expressway, Zhangjiakou-Chengde Expressway (Chongli Section) and other important transportation links in the three designated areas in Beijing and Zhangjiakou. The project has sufficiently met the needs of communication during the period of Winter Olympics.
•
 The key project under the 2019 National Key Research and Development Program “High-Tech Winter Olympics – Research and Demonstr
ation of Efficient 
and Intelligent Vehicle Network Technology for Winter Olympics” has developed the master system of 5G intelligent vehicle network business platform, which supports the collaboration among human-vehicle-road-cloud, “5G + Beidou” high-precision positioning, and autonomous vehicle dispatch. It has demonstrated ten major scenarios of business operation, such as autonomous vehicle connection, mobile sales, unmanned distribution and drive assistance in the district of Shougangoyuan during the Beijing Winter Olympics. It is expected that the project outcomes will be formally applied in the events of the Beijing Winter Olympics.
 Carrying out key and core technology research over the challenges
China Unicom has organised and implemented critical technology research in order to accelerate the forging of the long-term plates in the 
fields of new generation network, 5G enhancement, Big Data, and Vehicle Internet.
New generation of network core technology
China Unicom’s next-generation of 
network innovation system (CubeNet3.0), has been confirmed by a panel of experts led by Academician Wu Hequan and Academician Liu Yunjie. The experts believe that the results are technologically advanced, innovative and forward-looking. The outcomes are conducive to creating a new generation of digital infrastructure that can be widely applied, flexible, customizable, synergetic, intelligent, and secure.Tracking the trend of forward-looking technology evolution 
China Unicom has conducted foresight research on 6G scenarios and has moderately 
surpassed several forward-looking technologies, such as quantum information.
•
 The Company has conducted the three 6G standard closing projects and two
 
initiation projects. The research outcomes our Unicom’s 6G viewpoints have been 
continuously shared with and channeled to ITU/IMT-2030/3GPP/CCSA and other organisations.
•
 The Company has promoted joint R&D of the prototype system of intelligent ultra-
surface technology, conducted end-to-end test system demonstration in the peripheral
 
region of Huairou, and promoted the establishment of the industry alliance of intelligent ultra-surface technology.
•
 Th
e Company has promoted the research on the integration of low-cost, 
miniaturization, chip-based quantum communication equipment, and traditional communication networks. Based on the research on the security improvement plan of the quantum communication system blockchain technology, the Company has also completed the development of the prototype of the quantum encryption cloud platform.
Overcoming the “bottleneck”
China Unicom has carried out risk analysis on the “bottleneck” of the current supply chain in the fields of IT and CT, which sorted out and 
identified 22 major risk points of the IT line and 18 points of the CT line. Risk response plans for each risk point have been proposed, laying out the strategic idea of “reducing risk to breakthrough” to organise core technology research that provides suggestions to reduce risks. In 2021, to tackle the “bottleneck” risks, the Company has focusedly examined the controllable and independent problems, and has invested nearly RMB1 billion in research and development to launch 15 core technology breakthrough projects in the field of domestic substitution.  Risk reduction plans are proposed in combination with the core technology breakthrough tasks undertaken by the SASAC to overcome the “bottleneck”issue.
•
 We have promoted intelligent network transformation, developed network AI test bed and MR intelligent maintenance auxiliary sys
tem, 
etc., as well as defined a measurable grading method to evaluate automatic driving networks.
•
 We have constructed a prototype of the digital twin model of broadband access network to establish an integrated and internet-
oriented operating model to access network planning, construction, maintenance, and operation.
•
 We have independently designed and developed an IP network simulation system, the prototype of the digital twin system network 
architecture and built the digital twin system for the National New District (Xiong’an).
•
 We have held the 2020 AIIA Cup AI 5G Network Application Competition and ITU AI/ML in 5G Challenge, Network AI Forum.
•
 We have supplied AI capabilities and applications, opened up smart networks, perception analysis, AI algorithm models, applicat
ion 
services and other capabilities. We have also reshaped the smart city operation model and created applications, such as new effective urban governance, new convenient public services, new industry upgrade, and new livable and green ecology, in order to reconstruct a new form of citizen experience.
The core technology for Internet of Vehicles
The core technology of “Internet of Vehicles” focuses on six key issues, including 5G private network capabilities, edge collaborative computing, safe 
and reliable terminals, common ability aggregation, capability open service, and pan-scene operation. It induces a top-level architecture design “Intelligent 
Vehicle-Road Collaborative System”, and creates critical products and solutions, namely “1 intelligent integrated network, 1 common service platform, 2 vehicle-road intelligent terminals, and N-type collaborative service scenarios”. The results have been released at the 2021 China Unicom Partners Conference: Technology Innovation Summit Forum.
•
 By the results of the project, China Unicom joined the “Central Automobile Enterprise Digital Transformation Collaborative
 
Innovation Platform” and was selected as one of the council members.
•
 Relying on the base of the core mission application demonstration – Tianjin Haijiao Park Demonstration Base, China Unicom led 
and submitted the project “5 GV2X Vehicle-Road Collaborative Pilot Application Based on Industry Specific Network”, which won t
he first 
prize in “Industry Virtual Private Network” and the second prize in the national finals of the “4th Blooming Cup” 5G Application Competition in 2021 hosted by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.
•
 We have cooperated with the National Intelligent Commercial Vehicle Quality Inspection and Testing Centre to build the largest 
and 
most complete 5G/MEC vehicleroad collaborative test bed in China; in addition, we have established the “5G vehicle-road collaborative joint test research centre”.67
At the 2021 China Unicom Partnerships Conference, Mr 
Liang Baojun, deputy general manager of China Unicom, officially 
announced that Unicom Cloud has been upgraded comprehensively, and the brand of cloud computing business has also been fully renewed. The upgraded Unicom Cloud can provide more than 280 IaaS and PaaS products to meet customers’ cloud adoption needs in general scenarios. Based on the core infrastructure capability of Unicom Cloud 3.0 operating system, China Unicom has built seven scenario-based clouds, namely IoT sensing cloud, digital storage cloud, smart video cloud, smart chain collaborative cloud, 5G edge cloud, autonomous and controllable cloud and hybrid cloud. All these has helped to provide reliable support for the cloudification, Big Data analytics and intelligent transformation for thousands of industries.
 Intensifying research in the area of basic hardware and software
China Unicom has accelerated the improvement of its shortcomings in the area of independent and controllable basic software and hardware. 
It has improved the core technological capabilities in the terminal field, and solved the problems such as core deficiency, core technology and 
core components. In 2021, the Company carried out differentiated competitiveness innovation mainly in the fields of CT and IT independence and controllability, and also, the development in 5G, optical network, cloud-network integration, digital innovation, Internet-oriented transformation and security has as well as been highly focused.
•
 The Company has obtained a number of research results, such as the first domestic millimeter wave micro-station that has used l
ocalized 
core components in China, the first light-weight Internet of Things TLS transmission protocol based on the new state-level public key authentication technology in China, the self-developed controllable white box router based on self-developed operating system, the technology system and related standards of independent controllable communication cloud, and the first molding card integrated cellular network module without pre-built number in the industry.
 Promoting research on fundamental common technology
China Unicom has adhered to innovation-driven development, increased investment intensity, promoted breakthroughs in basic common 
technologies and consolidated the basic capability platform of Yunda Wuzhi Chain and Security. It has also strengthened the development of cloud computing, Big Data, Internet of things, AI, blockchain and security, increased the supply of self-developed products in the fields of digital government, smart city, industrial internet, public security and emergency management, created a professional level of comprehensive digital services, and achieved an independent development of its core technologies.
•
 In the field of cloud computing, it has supported the commercialisation of virtualization and cloud-native dual engine computin
g power base, 
and achieved a capacity of 100,000-level for its container scheduling technique.
Newly released the brand “Unicom Cloud”
• In the field of Big Data, we carried out multi-source heterogeneous data collection, exchange technology and ultra-large-scale task that has 
distributed scheduling technological innovation, in order to achieve the support for PB-level data volume.
•
 In the field of Internet of Things, we have self-developed the Internet of Things (IoT) connection management platform – Yanfei
zhilian, which 
could have allowed a volume of 160 million connections, surpassing Jasper to become the main connection platform.
•
 In 
the field of blockchain, China Unico Chain BaaS platform has enhanced cross-cloud and cross-chain service capabilities, and supported 
the integrated services with multiple cloud computing platforms such as Unicom WO Cloud, Alibaba Cloud and Tencent Cloud, as well as, with the 
blockchain framework such as XuperChain, FISCO BCOS.
•
 In 
the field of security, the Company strengthened the security innovation of the Internet of Things, and achieved the high-efficiency 
detection technology of large-scale network encryption that could detect data, and as a results, the average detection rate of https protocol metadata and mirror data was > 85%.
In 2021, China Unicom signed a proposal with 27 units that has included State Grid Corporation of China, China Construction Bank, 
Beijing Academy of Blockchain and Edge Computing, and initiated the establishment of the “Changan Chain Ecological Alliance”. At the 
same time, China Unicom joined the “China Science and Technology Association Engineer Consortium” as a council member,  and joined the “Quantum Information Network Industry Alliance” as vice chairman.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202168
 Participating in the formulation of international and industry standards
China Unicom actively participates in international and domestic organizations to help determine standards and measures for the industry, 
which cover 5G, cloud computing, Big Data, Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, edge computing, blockchain, information security, and other 
strategic development areas. Such endeavour has effectively fostered the standardisation of the Company’s cutting-edge research and development, improved our influence over the industry as well as our discourse power in the international network space.
•
 The Company has given much emphasis on intellectual property protection. We have laid out the “Outline for the Construction of 
a Intellectual 
Property Power (2021-2035)” and the “14th Five Year National Intellectual Property Protection and Application Plan”, revised the measures for patent management, and strengthened our protection measures over the source of intellectual property as well as high-quality creation.
•
 In 2021, the Company has led the establishment of 33 new international standard measures and the publication of 25 internationa
l standard 
measures.
•
 The Company recommended experts to run a campaign 
for the management positions in 3GPP and ITU-T and has
 
successfully gained 3 new positions. It has more than 100 active positions in several important international standard organisations such as ITU-T, 3GPP, GSMA, Linux Foundation, OpenInfra and open sources communities, including more than 20 key management positions.
•
 The Company launched the “China Unicom
 
Standardisation” WeChat official account to build an academic exchange platform and has popularized the latest development of domestic and foreign standard research and open source communities.
•
 The Company has led the project initiation and project
 
results in 3GPP, ITU-T, GSMA, ETSI, BBF, O-RAN, TIP and other important international standard organisations.
•
 The Company leading project “China Unicom Smart City 
Ne
twork Technology Research and Development” has won the 
first prize of the China Institute of Communications.
 Empowering Digital Transformation
China Unicom further promoted digital transformation, and built the smart middle platform as the core engine of comprehensive digital 
transformation, which stimulated data vitality, empowered digital transformation and upgrading, and created a new benchmark for digital transformation of central enterprises.
 Consolidating digital capabilities
In 2021, China Unicom has adhered to intensive and independent research and development, upgraded the smart middle platform, upgraded 
and shared the core businesses, core capabilities, core data and core processes across the country, and built the smart middle platform into a core engine for comprehensive digital transformation. It promoted the digitisation of business operations, intelligent network operations, digital operation and management, and scenario-based data empowerment, and strengthened the connection of the Unicom Intelligence Brain.
Creating a unified digital baseChina Unicom’s unified digital base was further consolidated to effectively support the Group’s R&D, operation and maintenance and capacity 
sharing.
•
 It covers 6 Big Data centres, 36,000 + nodes, three major structures (X86/ARM/OpenPower), dual-engine container (Messos/K8s), a
nd virtual 
and bare dual-machine, achieving full BMDOE connection, supporting 1,043 cloud applications, 10,000 cloud-based R&D and 250 million cloud codes, 1,500 + open capabilities and 1,100 million daily capacity adjustments.
Construction of five middle platformsChina Unicom completed the construction of 48 centres, 6 platforms and 9 skill buildings, achieving real-time order scheduling, one-point 
product release, network resource visibility, and full cloud data access.
•
 The Company focused on 16 core business scenarios in 8 categories, and completed the testing of business integration in all 31 
provinces, 
ensuring the end-to-end availability of business services. The Company piloted intensive operation in 15 provinces to achieve the coordination of R&D, production and operation.Responsibility performance 
indicators2021
Number of leading international standards 
(article)25
Number of leading industry standards 
(article)38
Number of patents applied (item) 2,224
Number of patents granted (item) 1,12869
Based on the data middle platform and the business 
middle platform, China Unicom Shandong Branch focused 
on improving the quality of the ecological environment, scientifically applied cloud computing, Big Data, Internet of Things, mobile Internet and other technical means to improve the environmental management level of water, solid waste, comprehensive environmental law enforcement, environmental monitoring and other businesses. It further enhanced the ability of comprehensive environmental supervision, improved the level of information disclosure and government services, and achieved scientific comprehensive decision-making, precise environmental supervision, convenient public services, and business management informatisation. It has also initially achieved the effectiveness of Big Data construction of ecological environment in Shandong Province.
China Unicom ecological environment data middle platform chart
Building a smart Intelligence Brain
China Unicom built the Unicom Intelligence Brain and released it through the Partner conference, laying a solid foundation for smart operation.•
 Achieved 100% of intensive core business system.
•
 Achieved 100% of centralised 10010 hotline.
•
 Achieved 100% of completed smart middle platform.
At the 2021 China Unicom Partners Conference, Mr. 
He Biao, deputy general manager of China Unicom, officially 
released the Unicom Intelligence Brain Product. “China Unicom Intelligence Brain” is committed to build an iconic and leading brain-type intelligent middle platform and an ultra-computerised cloud-network engine, and build a scenario-based and intelligent central nervous system featuring high-speed ubiquitous, cloud-network integration, computing networks integration, security and reliability, and intelligence and agility. China Unicom’s Intelligence Brain is connected with thousands of smart operation scenarios internally, and agilely achieved the empowerment and integration of thousands of industries externally.
China Unicom Intelligence Brain release
China Unicom Shanghai Branch has built a smart network 
operation brain, which has subversived the traditional working model and significantly improved production efficiency. Taking  resources and data as the foundation of digital twins, the Company built the decision-making capability of “Network Brain” through the digital intelligence rules. At present, it has covered 1,397 scenarios and more than 30,000 rules. At the same time, it focuses on key businesses and key processes, and enhanced the transformation of operation model which the automation handling rate of network events has reached to 99.625%, hence, comprehensively empowers the digital operation of network.
Smart Operation System ChartEvent feature 
databaseKey Personnel 
databaseOD feature 
database
OD analysis 
model
Pan-ecological 
dataPan-transportation 
dataIntegrated 
government dataGIS dataDevice 
information data User information 
dataIntelligent customer 
service dataImage 
algorithmsVoice 
algorithmsGeneral 
algorithms Bayonet correlation 
relational modelWater pollution 
modelSource of pollutants 
analytical modelAir pollution 
monitoring modelRelationship 
analysisVehicles blacklist 
databaseIndicator 
database
Cycle 
libraryHistory reporting 
databaseLabel 
databaseFeature 
database
... ...
......
...Enforcement 
feature databaseGrid inspection 
information database
Event feature 
databaseGas pollution 
information databaseEnvironmental 
Quality feature libraryWater pollution 
information databaseFeature Pool
Data Model Library
Metadata Pool Basic Database PoolAI Algorithm LibraryBusiness Pool Management PoolChina Unicom Sustainability Report 202170
 Activating value of data elements
China Unicom has revitalized its Big Data, by giving full play to the value of data and technical elements, focusing on areas such as urban 
governance, population, economy and employment, and key industries such as government affairs, emergency response, ecology, culture and 
tourism, transportation, agriculture, industry, housing and construction, and finance. It adhered to independent research and development, and built key industries data platforms and application products.
•
 Relying on the 
advantages of data governance, data security and data visualisation, China Unicom has implemented a number of provincial 
data security projects in Zhejiang, Hainan and Anhui. Among them, the “Construction Project of Hainan Government Big Data Security Guarantee System” was rated as the “2021 Top Ten ‘Digital Government’ Model Project”.
 Optimising the Layout of Industrial Innovation
China Unicom has integrated its innovative R&D capabilities, actively applied for and participated in the construction of national laboratories, 
focused on key areas to explore innovative models of industry, university, research and application, and improved the layout of industrial innovation.
 Building a national research and development centre
China Unicom has played the role of central enterprise in innovation, actively applied for and participated in the construction of national-level 
laboratories, and took the lead in organising the application of the National Engineering Laboratory for the Next Generation of Internet Broadband 
Business Services. It was officially approved by the National Development and Reform Commission, and was included in the National Engineering Research Centre for new sequence management. During the evaluation period, the National Engineering Laboratory for the Next Generation of Internet Broadband Business Application seized the opportunities that are arising from the development of industrial Internet and the transformation of network broadband and software to achieve breakthroughs in new network architecture, key technologies for mobile and fixed broadband and high-definition video broadband applications. It actively participated in and supported major national strategic tasks and key projects, and made positive contributions to the implementation of major national strategies and projects such as Cyberpower, Digital China, Smart Winter Olympics and pandemic prevention and control. In the future, the Company will further improve its organisational structure, strengthen its own construction, increase investment in R&D resources, gather new network architecture, next generation Internet and broadband technology, and combine with the Company’s new strategy to continuously strengthen, optimise and expand its development.
 Creating a consortium of industry, university, research and application
China Unicom focused on key regions such as the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region, the Yangtze River Delta, the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao 
Greater Bay Area and Sichuan-Shaanxi-Chongqing Region, it actively explored the layout of the regional science and technology innovation centres of state-owned enterprises, and built an innovation consortium of industry, university, research and application. In 2021, the Western Innovation Institute and Chongqing 5G Integrated Innovation Centre were established in Xi’an and Chongqing to explore the innovative model of industry-university-research-application.
In April 2021, China Unicom has entered into a strategic cooperation framework agreement with the People’s Government of Shaanxi Province, where China 
Unicom will be entitled to utilize optimally the resources of the Shaanxi University to jointly establish the Western Innovation Institute in collaboration with Xi’an 
Jiaotong University, Xidian University and Xi’an University of Posts and Telecommunications. On 6 September 2021, China Unicom Western Innovation Institute Co., Ltd. was officially established; the institute will focus on overcoming the “bottleneck” risks in key core technologies, laying out innovation chains, such as fundamental research, technology development, achievement transformation, talent cultivation and industry incubation around the connections of the industrial chain. The institute will build a collaborative innovation platform to gather together key resources, such as talents, technologies, products and businesses, innovation ecology, and pilot demonstration of scientific and technological innovation.
7071
RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT
 Strategy of Responsibility
China Unicom has always been committed to integrating its own development with broader sustainable development to achieve the harmonious 
unity of the Company’s interests and social objectives. In 2021, China Unicom continued to lead by the new development philosophies of innovation, 
coordination, green, openness and sharing. The Company implemented national strategies such as Cyber Superpower, Digital China and the “Belt and Road Initiative”, etc. with practical actions, and formulated the sustainable development strategy system of China Unicom, expressing the Company’s willingness and attitude to assume the responsibility of sustainable development.
China Unicom has established a selection procedure for sustainability agenda based on the principle of “closely following standards, regularly 
updating and continuously improving”. By keeping abreast of domestic and international situations and social hotspots, China Unicom continued 
to benchmark against advanced enterprises and constantly updated substainability agenda. In 2021, the Company led the practice of corporate responsibility with four substantial agenda to ensure that the fulfillment of responsibility meets the needs of society and people’s livelihood and responds to the concerns of stakeholders. The Board of Directors of China Unicom attached great importance to the supervision of ESG-related matters, and is responsible for formulating the Company’s ESG management policies and strategies, including evaluating, prioritising and managing the Company’s material ESG-related matters. The Board of Directors has been actively managing ESG risks and opportunities, integrating sustainable development with business practices, and incorporating climate and ESG-related risks into the risk identification and assessment process for analysis to ensure that the Company has established an effective risk management and internal control system. The Board of Directors continuously supervised the Company’s risk management and internal control system, regularly listened to the Company’s reports on ESG-related work, reviewed the Company’s performance, gave opinions and instructions to the management and relevant departments on ESG optimisation, and approved the disclosure of the Company’s ESG report. The Company promoted sustainable development practices in an orderly manner to achieve healthy and sustainable development.
ENHANCE AND
CREATE VALUEFirmly
committed to carrying
the responsibility of
the national
strategyShareholders
Community EmployeesCustomers
Government
PartnersPeersFirmly ful/f_illing
obligations in
economic
development
Deeply
practiced the
responsibility of scienti/f_ic
and technological
innovationFirmly
committed to carrying
the responsibility of
the people’s
livelihood
Firmly committed to
carrying the responsibility of
the people’s livelihood
· Facilitating the construction 
of a beautiful China
· Promoting comprehensive 
rural revitalisation
· Building an integrated and 
open ecosystem
· Engaging in public charity to 
bene/f_it societyDeeply practiced the
responsibility of scienti/f_ic and
technological innovation
· Deepening the innovation of 
scienti/f_ic and technological 
innovation mechanism
· Strengthening core technology 
research
· Empowering digital transformation· Optimising the layout of industrial 
innovation
Firmly committed to carrying
the responsibility of
the national strategy
· Building a solid foundation for 
compliant operation
· Opening up social information 
arteries
· Polishing our brand as the /f_irst 
choice of major communications support
· Serving coordinated 
regional developmentFirmly ful/f_illing
obligations in
economic development
· Boosting the development of 
digital economy
· Providing warm and 
intelligent services
· Strengthening reform to 
enhance motivation
· Creating a pool of innovative 
talentsChina Unicom Sustainable Development Strategy System
China Unicom’s procedures for selection of sustainability agendaB C D
The Company’s sustainability agenda 
took into account both international standards and national policy requirements. Based on the concerns of public opinions and the trend of agenda of domestic and foreign communication enterprises and related enterprises, the Company extensively collected social responsibility source materials from internal and external stakeholders to benchmark the agenda in sustainable development standards.Identifying the 
source of the agenda
With reference to the feedback 
from stakeholders such as customer service hotline record, supplier interview record, employee questionnaire and media analysis report, China Unicom’s sustainability agenda were formed.The importance of agenda 
will be prioritised in 
accordance with GRI and 
the agenda selection 
matrix based on two 
dimensions: “impact on 
operations of China 
Unicom” and “importance 
to stakeholders”.The agenda selected are subjected to examination before the sustainability agenda are con/f_irmed.AEstablishing the 
agenda poolExamination and con/f_irmationPrioritising the agendaChina Unicom Sustainability Report 202172
· Approve ESG planning
· Review ESG goals and 
progress
· Review and approve 
sustainability reports
· Review and approve other 
material ESG matters· Formulate ESG planning· Listen and deploy ESG work· Implement ESG strategy· Develop sustainability reports· Formulate other material ESG 
matters
· Ful/f_ill capital market 
responsibilities
· Conduct daily communication 
with investors· Compile ESG planning
· Formulate ESG management system· Coordinate and promote the ESG 
work of all departments of the headquarters, provincial branches and subsidiaries
· Prepare sustainability reports· Improving the ESG indicator system· Organise ESG training· Carry out assessments on 
outstanding ESG examples
· Conduct ESG research and 
exchange· Implement ESG tasks assigned by the Group
· Collect, compile and submit ESG information· Participate in the preparation of the Group's 
sustainable development report and topic research
· Implement major ESG projects of the Group· Carry out ESG practices with corporate characteristics· Communicate with stakeholders involved with respect 
to their own responsibilitiesOther departments of 
the headquarters
Corporate Development Department/Legal Department
A Share Company/Red Chip Company31 Provincial branches
SubsidiariesBoard of Directors
China Unicom Social Responsibility 
Guidance Committee
5G population coverage
exceeded 60 %
4G population coverage 
reached 95 %Broadband covered 450  million 
set of Residential properties
91,000 commercial buildings Over 300  million IoT connections
Volte coverage
reached 97.0 %The average 4G network downlink speed
was 37.3 Mbps, up by 6.6 % year-on-yearCoverage of mobile network in townships
reached 100 %
Coverage of mobile network in administrative
villages reached 93 %China Unicom Sustainability Agenda Selection Matrix
The four major core agenda of China Unicom in 2021 were determined through the analysis and selection of the agenda collected according to 
the procedures for selection of sustainability agenda and the agenda selection matrix.
 Organisation of Responsibility
The Board of Directors of China Unicom is fully responsible for the environmental, social and governance strategy and reporting, including 
the approval of environmental, social and governance planning, the review of environmental, social and governance objectives and progress, the 
approval of sustainability reports and other major issues. The Board of Directors authorises the Company’s Social Responsibility Guidance Committee to be responsible for the implementation of environmental, social and governance strategy and related operational matters. The Social Responsibility Guidance Committee regularly reports and puts forward suggestions on environmental, social and governance matters to the Board of Directors. The Corporate Development Department/Legal Department is responsible for the daily work. Other relevant departments of the Group, the provincial branches and subsidiaries are responsible for environmental, social and governance implementation and carry out responsibility practice in their respective business specialisations.
China Unicom Sustainability Working Organisation and Main ResponsibilitiesDeeply practiced the
responsibility ofscienti/f_ic andtechnological innovationFirmly committedto carrying theresponsibility of thenational strategyFirmly ful/f_illingobligations ineconomicdevelopmentFirmly committedto carrying theresponsibility of thepeople’s livelihoodEmergency 
communication support
Overseas responsibility performance
Community public welfareRural revitalisation
Communication with stakeholdersFighting against the pandemic
Universal communication servicesGreen recycling development
Industrial digitalisation
Digital transformationNetwork information security
Data privacyDigital information infrastructure construction
High quality service
Customer rights protection
Employee care
Legal complianceResponsibility awareness enhancementSupply chain management
Industry ecological construction Economic performanceCarbon emission and climate change
Environment Society
Importance for China Unicom High Very highVery high
EconomyImportance for stakeholders73 System for Responsibility
China Unicom’s sustainable development management system is composed of organisational guarantee, planning and implementation, 
communication management, and performance evaluation, etc. In the course of work, we adhere to the principles of management first, integration 
into operations, and joint actions by higher and lower levels. We clarify responsibility plans, promote the practice of responsibility performance, and respond to the concerns of all parties.
The Company strictly complied with international and domestic sustainable development responsibility standards, further improved the “China 
Unicom Sustainable Development Indicator System” focused on the four major substantial agenda of the Company, including 37 categories and 145 indicators, and promoted the integration of sustainable development responsibility into the production and operation of the Company on this basis.
 Capabilities on Responsibility
In 2021, China Unicom continued to strengthen the construction of responsibility capacity and continuously promoted the concept of 
responsibility rooted in the awareness of all employees. We have established a two-level sustainable development responsibility team at the Group, 
branches and subsidiaries, extensively and deeply promoted the implementation of responsibility practice, and encouraged the improvement of the Group’s ability to fulfill its responsibilities through case sharing. Many responsibility practices have won awards from all walks of life. We tracked and disclosed information well, effectively responded to the concerns of stakeholders, and the social responsibility report have been positively evaluated. We have actively participated in various exchange seminars and trainings organised by the social responsibility industry, paying attention to the development trend of social responsibility, learning excellent enterprise experience, contributing ideas and opinions, and helping the sustainable and in-depth development of social responsibility.
•
 Accredited with “2020 Golden Bull Social Responsibility Award” issued by China Securities Journal in December 2021.
•
 Accredited with “The Best of Asia-Icon on ESG” and “ESG Influencer” in the 16th Asian ESG Awards 2021 held by Corporate Governa
nce Asia.
•
 Accredited with the Asia’s Best Corporate Social Responsibility, the Best Environmental Responsibility, the Best Corporate Comm
unications 
and the Best Investor Relations Company at the 11th Asian Excellence Recognition Awards 2021.
•
 Accredited with the “Platinum Award Excellence in Environmental, Social and Governance” in “The Asset ESG Corporate Awards 2021
”.
•
 In t
he ESG rating of 440 listed companies controlled by central enterprises of the SASAC in 2021, reached the pioneer level and was selected 
as the “Central Enterprise ESG Pioneer 50 Index”.
•
 Three social responsibility practices were selected into the case collection of the Central Enterprise Corporate Social Respons
ibility/ESG 
Series Blue Book (2021) of SASAC.
•
 The Company was rated AA in the “Social Responsibility Report of Thousand Outstanding Enterprises” by the Ministry of Industry 
and 
Information Technology.
•
 The practice case of responsibility for scientific and technological innovation was selected as the “2021 Best Practice Case (
Scientific and 
Technological Innovation) of Enterprises to Achieve Sustainable Development Goals” by the Global Compact Network China.China Unicom Sustainable Development Indicator System
ENHANCE AND
CREATE VALUEFirmly
committed to carrying
the responsibility of
the national
strategyShareholders
Community EmployeesCustomers
Government
PartnersPeersFirmly ful/f_illing
obligations in
economic
development
Deeply
practiced the
responsibility of scienti/f_ic
and technological
innovationFirmly
committed to carrying
the responsibility of
the people’s
livelihood
Firmly committed to
carrying the responsibility of
the people’s livelihood
· Facilitating the construction 
of a beautiful China
· Promoting comprehensive 
rural revitalisation
· Building an integrated and 
open ecosystem
· Engaging in public charity to 
bene/f_it societyDeeply practiced the
responsibility of scienti/f_ic and
technological innovation
· Deepening the innovation of 
scienti/f_ic and technological 
innovation mechanism
· Strengthening core technology 
research
· Empowering digital transformation· Optimising the layout of industrial 
innovation
Firmly committed to carrying
the responsibility of
the national strategy
· Building a solid foundation for 
compliant operation
· Opening up social information 
arteries
· Polishing our brand as the /f_irst 
choice of major communications support
· Serving coordinated 
regional developmentFirmly ful/f_illing
obligations in
economic development
· Boosting the development of 
digital economy
· Providing warm and 
intelligent services
· Strengthening reform to 
enhance motivation
· Creating a pool of innovative 
talentsChina Unicom Sustainability Report 202174 Communication on Responsibility
China Unicom has established a sustainable development responsibility communication mechanism for continuous and targeted communication 
based on the expectations of stakeholders and sustainability agenda.
Practical Issue Stakeholder Communication method Expectations for China Unicom
Firmly committed to carrying 
the responsibility of the 
national strategyGovernment•
 Face-to-face communication
• Meetings•
 Improve the level of compliance operation
• Law-abiding and clean operation
Shareholders•
 General meeting of shareholders
•
 Investor meeting•
 Timely and transparent information access
•
 Long-term stable investment income
•
 Corporate governance and risk management
Firmly fulfilling obligations in 
economic developmentGovernment•
 Face-to-face communication
•
 
Meetings•
 Fair competitive market order
•
 Improve efficiency and reduce costs
•
 Modernisation of governance capabilities and 
systems
Customers•
 
Meetings
•
 Service hotline
•
 
Weibo/WeChat
•
 NPS (Net Promoter Score) survey•
 High speed and smooth network
•
 Innovative smart network services
•
 Favourable and transparent tariff policies
•
 Convenient and efficient service assurance
•
 Network information security assurance
Public and media•
 Phone communication and forums
•
 Internet-based communication•
 Timely acquire of the Company’s information
•
 Interactive communication with the Company
Employees•
 Staff forums
•
 Staff representative assemblies
•
 Democratic informal meetings
•
 Online communication with the General Manager•
 Protection of legitimate rights and interests
• Training and career development opportunities
•
 Opportunities to participate in democratic management
•
 Support in adversity
•
 Comfortable and safe working environment
Firmly committed to carrying 
the responsibility of the 
people’s livelihoodCustomers •
 
Interviews/hotline•
 Promote partners’ accountability
•
 High-quality network in remote areas
Peers•
 Face-to-face communication
•
 
Meetings•
 Resource complementarity improvement
•
 Cost savings and efficiency improvements
Community•
 
Meetings
•
 
Forums•
 Continuous and effective donation
•
 Comprehensively promote rural revitalisation
•
 Carry out public welfare volunteer activities
Ecological environment –•
 Green and eco-friendly operations
•
 Recycling to reduce pollution
Partners•
 Partners’ conference
•
 Meetings, interviews
•
 Self-service portals of partners•
 Wide scope of cooperation
•
 Fair and open opportunities for cooperation
•
 Extensive and convenient supporting services
Deeply practiced the 
responsibility of scientific and 
technological innovationAll stakeholders•
 
Meetings
•
 
Interviews
•
 
Weibo/WeChat•
 Increase the proportion of high-tech talents
•
 Increase the proportion of R&D investment
•
 Smart products to improve quality of life
•
 Innovative forward-looking communications technology
•
 Management system adapting to the Internet75APPENDICES
 Key Performance
Category Indicator Unit 2019 2020 2021
Operations and 
developmentTotal assets RMB billion 562.5 580.62 591.08
Operating revenue RMB billion 290.51 303.84 327.85
Service revenue RMB billion 264.39 275.81 296.15
Profit before income tax RMB billion 14.17 16.03 17.93
Mobile billing subscribers Thousand 318,475 305,811 317,115
Fixed-line local access subscribers Thousand 54,215 47,339 47,193
Fixed-line broadband subscribers Thousand 83,478 86,095 95,046
Online 2I subscribers Thousand 54,140 50,940 50,390
Network 
capabilitiesNumber of 4G base stations Thousand 1,407 1,503 1,560
4G population coverage % 93 94 95
5G network coverage cities Number 50 348 348
Number of fixed network broadband access 
portsBillion 0.221 0.225 0.239
Broadband coverage rate in administrative 
villages in ten northern provinces% 95 96 98
Urban 100M or above broadband network 
coverage rate% 86.3 85.3 93.7
Urban 20M or above broadband network 
coverage rate% 96 96 99
Gigabit fibre network coverage capacity Billion households / / 0.108
Rural 4M or above broadband network 
coverage rate% 100 100 100
Coverage rate of mobile network in township % 100 97.34 100
Coverage rate of mobile network in 
administrative villages% 90 86 93
Number of administrative villages with 
broadband coverageThousand 299 306 327
Co-construction rate of pole lines % 91 95 95
Sharing rate of pole lines % 97 92 93
co-construction rate of pipelines % 92 94 85
Sharing rate of pipelines % 93 97 92
International interconnection bandwidth G 2,460 2,460 3,260
Internet of Things connections Billion 0.187 0.238 0.302
Number of data centre racks Thousand 234 277 312
Commitment in 
major assurance 
initiativesTotal times of emergency communication 
assuranceTimes 578 612 695
Emergency communication vehicles called outThousand 
vehicle-time152 153 155
Emergency communication equipment inputtedThousand set-
time119 180 172
Personnel usedThousand person-
time641 660 670China Unicom Sustainability Report 202176Category Indicator Unit 2019 2020 2021
Independent 
innovationResearch and development investment5RMB billion 1.709 2.964 4.792
Number of leading international standard 
conclusionItems 24 23 25
Number of leading industry standard conclusion Items 43 37 38
Number of patent applied Items 1,439 1,734 2,224
Number of patents granted Items 658 518 1,128
Customer serviceMonthly average complaint rate in the yearPerson-times/
million users18.26 11.84 8.75
Comprehensive satisfaction rate Points 81.11 81.32 81.68
Including: Mobile service subscribers 
satisfaction rate6Points 80.26 80.72 80.62
Fixed line phone subscribers satisfaction rate Points 87.9 87.7 88.41
Fixed broadband subscribers satisfaction rate Points 81.51 80.49 81.84
People-orientedGender proportion of employees Male: female 1.53: 1 1.54: 1 1.62: 1
Proportion of ethnic minority employees % 7.33 6.72 6.8
Proportion of female in senior management % 11.9 12.5 12.4
Input in employee training RMB million 374.36 364.86 340.99
Training hours per employee Hours 63 88 94
Network college online learning person-timeThousand person-
times18,080 51,000 42,000
Network college total online learning hoursThousand credit 
hours9,160 21,780 23,730
Proportion of contracted employees in labor 
union% 100 100 100
Input to help and support employees suffered 
from difficultiesRMB thousand 79,000 78,800 70,220
Input in condolence fund RMB thousand 28,750 42,590 42,100
Employee turnover rate % 1.85 1.87 1.69
Number of new employees Persons 9,831 10,281 12,479
Number of new male employees Persons 6,076 6,422 7,947
Number of new female employees Persons 3,755 3,859 4,532
Number of employees who voluntarily resign Persons 4,521 4,692 3,939
Number of male employees who voluntarily 
resignPersons 2,674 2,806 2,515
Number of female employees who voluntarily 
resignPersons 1,847 1,886 1,424
Number of employees dismissed Persons 914 1,244 1,458
Number of male employees dismissed Persons 560 797 927
Number of female employees dismissed Persons 354 447 531
Turnover rate of employees aged below 30 % 6.84 7.07 6.23
Turnover rate of employees aged 30-50 % 1.07 1.18 0.94
Turnover rate of employees aged over 50 % 0.14 0.13 0.1
Turnover rate of male employees % 1.78 1.88 1.67
Turnover rate of female employees % 1.95 2.02 1.53
Turnover rate of domestic employees % / / 1.69
Turnover rate of oversea employees % / / 0.58
Number of work-related fatalities Persons 0 0 0
Rate of work-related fatalities % 0 0 077Category Indicator Unit 2019 2020 2021
Low-carbon 
developmentSpecial investment in energy conservation and 
emission reductionRMB billion 0.104 0.123 0.13
Energy consumption per unit of information 
flowkg standard coal/
TB3.48 2.83 3.65
Petrol consumption7Thousand tons 41.75 40.5 27
Diesel consumption7Thousand tons 13.74 11.2 16.4
Natural gas consumption7Thousand m37,858.5 5,423 5,810
Electricity consumption7Billion KWH 15.81 17.22 20.4
Water consumption Thousand tons 18,095 14,990 16,980
Water consumption density Tons/RMB million 61.51 47.21 51.65
Coal consumption7Thousand tons 94 23 40
Energy consumptionThousand tons of 
standard coal172.8 245 77
Greenhouse gas emission8Million tons 13.2 14.23 12.97
Total direct emission of GHG (category I) Million tons 0.39 0.2 0.53
Total indirect emission of GHG (category II) Million tons 12.81 14.03 12.44
Carbon emission intensity Tons/RMB million 45.4 46.6 39.5
Sulphur dioxide emission Thousand tons 0.04 0.01 0.02
Recycling upon scrappage and disposal RMB billion 0.965 0.733 0.456
Scrappage and disposal of batteries Thousand tons 10.2 11.3 12.2
Scrappage and disposal of general materials Thousand tons 10.9 24.7 33.4
Compliance 
managementCompliance training sessions Times 2,514 4,580 8,010
Participant attending the compliance trainingThousand 
persons245 243 243
Production safety training sessions Times 87 93 119
Production safety training coverage rate % 100 100 100
Number of domestic suppliers Number / / 71,000
Number of overseas suppliers Number / / 20
Community 
responsibilityNumber of registered volunteers Persons 47,930 55,006 57,550
Participants in volunteer activities Person-times 55,004 58,095 68,735
Credit rating1Grade AAA AAA AAA
Total tax paid RMB billion 5.25 6.59 7.93
Employment creation Persons 9,913 10,652 13,038
Total donations RMB thousand 2,230 6,374 2,082
Notes:
1.
 The credit rating of China United Network Communications Corporation 
Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, was granted by United Credit Ratings Co., Ltd. and 
China Chengxin International Credit Rating Co., Ltd.
2.
 Data description: The data and information collection of this report mainly sourced from the Company’s internal data collection
 system and relevant statistical reports, as well 
as the corporate sustainable development practice cases submitted by provincial companies. There is no material change in relation to the methods used for prepping the dis-closure. The data for 2021 quoted in this report is the final statistical data. If there is any discrepancy between the financial data and the annual report, the annual report shall prevail. The monetary unit adopted in this report is RMB.
3.
 Please refer to the Description to the Report for the details of the report reference standards.
4.
 Quality assurance: The Board of Directors and all directors undertake that the information disclosed in the report is authentic
, complete and correct, with no false record or mis-
leading statement.
5.
 The original input data of scientific and technological innovation was adjusted to R&D investment according to the statistical 
caliber required by the superior regulatory authori-
ties, and the corresponding historical data was updated.
6.
 According to the regulatory requirements and industry practices of the telecommunications 
industry, the satisfaction evaluation of mobile phone and mobile internet business 
was cancelled in 2021, and the satisfaction evaluation of mobile business was newly added. Therefore, the score of mobile business in 2019 and 2020 was calculated using the average score of the original mobile phone and mobile internet businesses.
7.
 The data statistics of petrol consumption, diesel consumption, natural gas consumption, electricity consumption and coal consu
mption cover the headquarters and 31 provincial 
branches. The conversion factor of each energy consumption shall refer to GB/T 2589-2020 “General Rules for the Calculation of the Comprehensive Energy Consumption”.
8.
 Statistical methods of greenhouse gas emissions mainly refer to ISO 14064.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202178 Honors and Recognition
• China Unicom ranked 260th in “Fortune Global 500” for the year 2021.
•
 China Unicom was rated as the highest level (Grade A) for information disclosure by Shanghai Stock Exchange for four consecutiv
e years.
•
 China Unicom accredited with “Tianma Award” for Investor Relations of Chinese Listed Companies by Securities Times.
•
 Ch
ina Unicom was voted six years in a row as “Asia’s No. 1 Most Honored Telecom Company” in “2021 All-Asia Executive Team” by 
Institutional Investor, and was awarded “Asia’s Best ESG (Telecoms)” and “Asia’s Best IR Team (Telecoms)”. 
•
 China Unicom was awarded as the “Most Outstanding Company in China – Telecommunication Services Sector” in the “Asia Outstandin
g 
Companies Poll 2021” organised by Asiamoney.
•
 China Unicom was awarded “Asia’s No.1 Best Telecommunications Company”, “Best Managed Listed Company in China – 1st” and “Best 
Investor Relations in China – 1st” by FinanceAsia.
•
 China Unicom won the “2020-2021 Best Digital Investor Relations Award” at the Excellent IR Summit.
•
 China Unicom received the 2021 Asian Mobile Industry Outstanding Contribution Award at the GSMA Mobile World Congress.
•
 China Unicom won the “Excellent Examination of the Board of Directors” in 2021, ranking among the top ten state-owned enterpris
es.
•
 China Unicom was selected as the “Best Case of Performance Briefing” and the “Best Practice Case of Board Office” by China Asso
ciation 
for Public Companies.
•
 China Unicom was awarded “Outstanding IR Enterprise Award” and “Best New Media Operation Award” by Panorama network.
•
 The official account of China Unicom’s customer service was awarded the “2021 Top 10 Brand Account” award by Bilibili.
•
 China Unicom was awarded the Best “Solution” of the 2021 ICT China Innovation Award by the China Association of Communication
 
Enterprises at PT Expo China.
•
 China Unicom won the Champion Award in the ICT Electronic and Environmental Group at the WSIS.
•
 China Unicom received the 2021 Science and Technology Award from the Chinese Institute of Electronics.
•
 China Unicom Digital Technology Co., Ltd. was awarded the “2020 CMP Excellent Case” by Cloud Computing 
Standards and Open Source 
Promotion Committee.
 Description to the Report
Reporting period From 1 January to 31 December 2021, with some contents exceeding the aforesaid period.
Release frequency The Sustainability Report of China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited is an annual report.
Organisational coverageThis report covers China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited and its subsidiaries. For the convenience of expression, “China Unicom”, “the Group”, “the 
Company” and “we” are used respectively in the presentation of this report.
ReferencesGuiding Opinions on Better Fulfilling Social Responsibilities of State-owned Enterprises, The State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC);Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact;Guidelines for preparation of Report on Performance of Corporate Social Responsibility, Shanghai Stock Exchange;Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide, HKEX;Guidelines for Preparation of Social Responsibility Report, AQSIQ and SAC;Guidelines for Preparation of China Enterprise Social Responsibility Report (Telecommunications Industry) (CASS-CSR3.0), Chinese Academy of Social Sciences;Guidelines for Preparation of China Enterprise Social Responsibility Report (CASS-CSR4.0), Chinese Academy of Social Sciences;Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Latest Edition), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI);Social Responsibility Management System of China Information and Communication Industry Enterprises, China Association of Communications Enterprises.
Clarification about 
the dataThe 2021 data quoted in this report are final statistical data. In case of any discrepancy between the financial data herein and those in annual 
report, the annual report shall prevail.
Quality assuranceThe Board of Directors and all directors undertake that the information disclosed in the report is authentic, complete and correct, with no false record or misleading statement.
Language versions and 
availabilityThe Company’s Sustainability Report is available in both Chinese and English versions in both printed and online versions.
The online English and Chinese versions of the report are available on the website of China Unicom: http://www.chinaunicom.com.hk.
Contact informationAddress: China Unicom Corporate Development Department/Legal Department, No. 21 Jinrong Street, Xicheng District, BeijingZip Code: 100033Fax: 86-10-66258604Email: cuijc15@chinaunicom.cn79 INDEXES
No. Page Disclosed
Organisational profile
102-1 P6
102-2 P6, 37
102-3 P82
102-4 P6, 26
102-5 P6, 8
102-6 P6, 30–36
102-7 P6, 39–40, 75
102-8 P39–44, 76102-9 P53–70
102-10 P6, 8, 53–70102-11 P18–19, 55102-12 P78
102-13 P68
Strategy
102-14 P4-5
102-15 P4–5, 9–12
Ethics and integrity
102-16 P8
102-17 P19, 27 GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards Ten Principles of the Global Compact
No. Page Disclosed
Governance
102-18 P7–8, 71–72102-19 P71–72
102-20 P71–72
102-21 P71–74
102-22 P7–8, 71–72102-23 P7–8, 71–72102-24 P7–8, 71–72102-25 P7–8
102-26 P71–72
102-27 P71–72
102-28Information not 
available
102-29 P71–74
102-30 P18–19
102-31 P71–73
102-32 P71–73
102-33 P71–74
102-34 P71–74
102-35 P40
102-36 P40No. Page Disclosed
102-37 P74
102-38Confidentiality 
restrictions
102-39Confidentiality 
restrictions
Participation by stakeholders
102-40 P74
102-41Information not 
available
102-42 P74
102-43 P71–74
102-44 P71–74
Reporting Practice
102-45 See annual report102-46 P71–74
102-47 P72–74
102-48 P78
102-49 P72–74
102-50 P78
102-51 P78
102-52 P78
102-53 P78
102-54 P79–80No. Page Disclosed
102-55 P79–80
102-56Information not 
available
GRI103: Management approach
103-1 P71–74
103-2 P71–74
103-3 P71–74
GRI201: Economic benefits
Management 
approachP39–44, 75–76
201-1 P39–44, 75–76201-2 P46–47, 54, 77201-3 P39–44, 75–76201-4 See annual report
GRI202: Market performance
Management 
approachP39–44
202-1 P39–44
202-2 P27
GRI203: Indirect economic impacts
Management 
ApproachP20–37, 46–62
203-1 P50–53, 58–62203-2 P68No. Indexes Page Disclosed
Human rights
Principle 1Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 
proclaimed human rightsP27, 40
Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses P27, 40
Labour standards
Principle 3Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargainingP42
Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor P40
Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour P40
Principle 6The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupationP40
Environment
Principle 7Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challengesP23–25, 46–48
Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility P46–50
Principle 9Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologiesP46–50
Anti-corruption
Principle 10Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and briberyP18–19China Unicom Sustainability Report 202180No. Page Disclosed
GRI204: Procurement practices
Management 
approachP27, 55
204-1 P55, 77
GRI205: Anti-corruption
Management 
approachP18–19
205-1 P18–19
205-2 P18–19
205-3 P19
GRI302: Energy
Management 
approachP46–47
302-1 P77
302-2Information not 
available
302-3 P77
302-4 P77
302-5 P46–48
GRI305: Emissions
Management 
approachP46–47
305-1 P77No. Page Disclosed
305-2 P77
305-3 P77
305-4 P77
305-5 P77
305-6 N/A
305-7 N/A
GRI308: Supplier environmental 
assessment
Management 
approachP55
308-1 P27, 55
308-2 P19, 27
GRI401: Employment
Management 
approachP39–40
401-1 P39–40, 76
401-2 P40, 43–44401-3 P40
GRI404: Training and Education
Management 
approachP41–42
404-1 P41, 76No. Page Disclosed
404-2 P41–42
404-3 P40
GRI405: Diversity and equal opportunity
Management 
approachP40
405-1 P39–40, 76405-2 P39–40
GRI406: Anti-discrimination
Management 
approachP27, 40
406-1 P27, 40
GRI407: Freedom of association and 
collective bargaining
Management 
approachP42
407-1 P42, 76
GRI413: Local communities
Management 
approach
P27–28, 58–62
413-1 P27–28, 58–62
413-2 P27–28, 58–62
GRI414: Supplier assessment for impacts 
on society
Management 
approachP55No. Page Disclosed
414-1 P55
414-2 P19, 55
GRI416: Customer health and safety
Management 
approachP35–36, 47
416-1 P35–36, 47416-2 P35–36
GRI417: Marketing and labeling
Management 
approachP35–37
417-1 P35–37
417-2 P35–37
417-3 P35–37
GRI418: Customer privacy
Management 
approachP22
418-1 P22
GRI419: Socio-economic Compliance
Management 
approachP19
419-1 P19
Index Page Disclosed
I. Preface of the Report (P series)
(P1) Specification of the report
P1.1 P78
P1.2 P78
P1.3 P78
(P2) Message from senior management
P2.1 P4–5
P2.2 P4–5
(P3) Responsibility focus
P3.1 P71–73
P3.2 P4–5, 9–16, 71–73
(P4) Corporate profile
P4.1 P6, 10–12, 26P4.2 P30–37
P4.3 P75–77
P4.4 P6–8, 55
II. Responsibility management (G series)
(G1) Vision
G1.1 P6, 9–12
G1.2 P71
(G2) Strategy
G2.1 P71–72
G2.2 P71–73
G2.3 P71–73 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences CASS4.0
Index Page Disclosed
G2.4 P37, 73
(G3) Organisation
G3.1 P72
G3.2 P72
G3.3 P72
(G4) System
G4.1 P73–74
G4.2 P73
G4.3 P73
(G5) Culture
G5.1 P73
G5.2 P72–73
(G6) Participation
G6.1 P74
G6.2 P73–74
G6.3 P78–81
III. Market Performance (M series)
(M1) Responsibility to government
M1.1 P6–7
M1.2 P6–8
M1.3 P18–19
M1.4 P7
M1.5 P74
M1.6 P75–77Index Page Disclosed
M1.7 P75–77
M1.8 P75–77
(M2) Responsibility to customers
M2.1 P51–52, 59–60M2.2 P34–36
M2.3 P75
M2.4 P64–71
M2.5 P76
M2.6 P76
M2.7 P30–34, 67–70M2.8 P37
M2.9 P37, 59–60
M2.10 P22–23
M2.11 P35–36
M2.12 P47–48
M2.13 P22
M2.14 P35–36
M2.15 P35–36
M2.16 P35–36
M2.17 –
M2.18 P36, 76
(M3) Responsibility to business partners
M3.1 P18–19, 27
M3.2 P19Index Page Disclosed
M3.3 P54–55
M3.4 P53–57, 70
M3.5 P68
M3.6 P57, 68
M3.7 P55–56
M3.8 P55–56
M3.9 P55
M3.10 P55–56
M3.11 P55–56
M3.12 P55
M3.13 P55–56
M3.14 P55–56
M3.15 P55–56
M3.16 P55–56
VI. Social performance (S series)
(S1) Responsibility to government
S1.1 P19
S1.2 P19, 77
S1.3 P77
S1.4 P38–39
S1.5 P39–40
S1.6 P40, 77
(S2) Responsibility to employees
S2.1 P39–40Notes:
1.
 For details of 102-24, 102-25 and 201-4, please refer to the 2021 annual report of the Company
 and download at http://www.chinaunicom.com.hk.
2.
 Material gases such as ozone-depleting substances (ODS), nitrogen oxides (NOX) and sulphur oxides (SOX) cited in 305-6 and 305-7 are not the major emissions of the Company.
3.
 The corresponding systems or processes as described in 102-28 and 102-56 will be gradually es
tablished.81Index Page Disclosed
S2.2 P40
S2.3 P40
S2.4 P40, 42
S2.5 P76
S2.6 P40
S2.7 P40
S2.8 P39–40, 76
S2.9 P40
S2.10 P40–44
S2.11 P43
S2.12 P40, 43
S2.13 P43
S2.14 P41–42
S2.15 P41, 76
S2.16 P39–41
S2.17 P43–44
S2.18 P44
S2.19 P40–44
S2.20 P76
(S3) Safe production
S3.1 P43
S3.2 P25, 43
S3.3 P43
S3.4 P77Index Page Disclosed
S3.5 P43
S3.6 P43
S3.7 P76
(S4) Responsibility to community
S4.1 P74
S4.2 P27, 76
S4.3 P27, 76
S4.4 P27, 55
S4.5 P50–53, 58–62
S4.6 P61–62
S4.7 P61–62
S4.8 P58
S4.9 P61–62
S4.10 P61–62
S4.11 P61–62
S4.12 P50–53
S4.13 P50
S4.14 P50–53
V. Environmental performance (E series)
(E1) Green management
E1.1 P46–47
E1.2 P46–47
E1.3 P47
E1.4 P47–48Index Page Disclosed
E1.5 P48
E1.6 P48
E1.7 P49–50
E1.8 P47, 77
E1.9 P46–50
E1.10 P77
E1.11 P77
E1.12 P77
(E2) Green production
E2.1 P47–48
E2.2 P48
E2.3 P47–48
E2.4 P47, 77
E2.5 P77
E2.6 P47–48
E2.7 –
E2.8 P48
E2.9 P77
E2.10 P77
E2.11 P47–48, 54
E2.12 P54, 77
E2.13 P48
E2.14 P77
E2.15 P48Index Page Disclosed
E2.16 P77
E2.17 P48
E2.18 P48
E2.19 P48
E2.20 –
E2.21 P48
E2.22 P47–48
E2.23 P46–50, 54
E2.24 P46–50, 54
E2.25 P77
(E3) Green operation
E3.1 P48
E3.2 P48
E3.3 P49–50
E3.4 P49–50
E3.5 P47–48
E3.6 P28, 58
VI. Report appendix (A series)
(A1) P71–72
(A2) P75–77
(A3) P73, 78
(A4) P73
(A5) P79–81
(A6) P82
Indicators Page Disclosed
A1 P46–49, 77
A1.1 P77
A1.2 P77
A1.3 See note 1
A1.4 See note 1
A1.5 P46–49
A1.6 See note 2
A2 P46–49
A2.1 P77
A2.2 P77
A2.3 P46–49
A2.4 P48 SEHK ESG Indicators
Indicators Page Disclosed
A2.5 See note 3
A3 P46–49
A3.1 P46–49
A4 P23–25, 46–49
A4.1 P23–25, 46–49
B1 P39–44
B1.1 P39–40, 76
B1.2 P76
B2 P43–44
B2.1 P76
B2.2 P43
B2.3 P43–44Indicators Page Disclosed
B3 P40–42
B3.1 P41
B3.2 P41
B4 P40
B4.1 P40
B4.2 P40
B5 P19, 27, 47–48, 55–56
B5.1 P77
B5.2 P19, 27, 48
B5.3 P55
B5.4 P48
B6 P22–23, 34–37Indicators Page Disclosed
B6.1 N/A
B6.2 P35, 76
B6.3 P68
B6.4 P36
B6.5 P22–23
B7 P18–19
B7.1 P19
B7.2 P18–19
B7.3 P18
B8 P27–28, 31–32, 58–62
B8.1 P24, 31–32, 51–53
B8.2 P58, 77
Notes:
1. As China Unicom is a massive entity and its business covers a wide geographical region, currently the Company is not able to pr
oduce full statistics over its waste production (including 
hazardous and non-hazardous categories) as prescribed in A1.3 and A1.4. Upon identification of material topics, we mainly report on the recycling and reuse of main resources utilised by the Company in the course of operation including cables, battery, terminals and comprehensive supplies. The Company will establish related data collection system in the future.
2.
 As the amount of waste in network operation is directly related to the rapid development of the n
etwork and the constant update and iteration of equipment, and the generation 
and disposal of hazardous waste is not an important aspect of the Group’s operation, the waste reduction target involved in A1.6 cannot be disclosed for the time being. We mainly reported on measures such as building a green supply chain and strengthening recycling.
3.
 As the Company mainly engages in the provision of telecommunication services, packaging mate
rial used for the finished products as prescribed in A2.5 is not applicable to the 
Company’s business practice.
4.
 Product recycling indicator involved in B6.1 is not applicable to the actual business of the Compa
ny. Through the identification of substantive agenda, the Company mainly reported 
on the maintenance of network information security, the protection of emergency communication, and the protection of customer rights and interests in accordance with the law.China Unicom Sustainability Report 202182 FEEDBACK
Dear Reader,
Thank you for reading the 2021 Sustainability Report of China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited, which is the sixth sustainability report published 
by the Company to the public. In order to better provide you and other stakeholders with valuable information while facilitating the supervision of social responsibility works as well as enhancing the capability and standard of performing social responsibility, we would like to have your valuable opinions and suggestions regarding this report.
Email: cuijc15@chinaunicom.cnFax: 86-10-66258604Address: China Unicom Corporate Development Department, No. 21 Jinrong Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, China, 100033
µ Your capacity:
A. Customer   B. Shareholder   C. Government   D. Community   E. Business partner   F. Media    
G. Social organisation
  H. Others (please specify) ______________
µ Overall evaluation of China Unicom’s Sustainability Report:
A. Excellent   B. Good   C. Fair   D. Not Satisfactory   E. Poor
µ Overall evaluation of China Unicom’s performance in economic, social and environmental responsibilities:
Economic responsibility A. Excellent   B. Good   C. Fair   D. Not Satisfactory   E. Poor
Social responsibility A. Excellent
  
B. Good
  
C. Fair
  
D. Not Satisfactory
  
E. Poor
Environmental responsibility A. Excellent
  
B. Good
  
C. Fair
  
D. Not Satisfactory
  
E. Poor
µ Response and disclosure in this report in connection with the concerns of stakeholders?
A. Excellent   B. Good   C. Fair   D. Not Satisfactory   E. Poor
µ Overall evaluation of this report in terms of the clarity, accuracy and integrity of the disclosure of information, data and index:
Clarity A. Excellent   B. Good   C. Fair   D. Not Satisfactory   E. Poor
Accuracy A. Excellent
  
B. Good
  
C. Fair
  
D. Not Satisfactory
  
E. Poor
Integrity A. Excellent
  
B. Good
  
C. Fair
  
D. Not Satisfactory
  
E. Poor
µ Readability of this report in terms of content arrangement and layout design?
Content Arrangement A. Excellent   B. Fair   C. Poor
Layout Design A. Excellent
  
B. Fair
  
C. Poor
µ Any other opinion/suggestion for our work and report of sustainability?
Thank you for your feedback and precious time.CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
75th Floor, The Center, 99 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kongwww.chinaunicom.com.hk