CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
HKEx: 0762
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
75th Floor, The Center, 99 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong
www.chinaunicom.com.hkCHINA UNICOM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
CORPORATE
SOCIALRESPONSIBILITYREPORT
DIGITS     WALK WITH RESPONSIBILITIES24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.02
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements contained in this report may be viewed as “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A 
of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (as amended) and Section 21E of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended). Such forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual performance, financial condition or results of operations of the Company to be materially different from any future performance, 
financial condition or results of operations implied by such forward looking statements. In addition, we do not intend to update these forward-looking statements. Further information regarding these risks, uncertainties and other factors is included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 20-F and other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.03
Pandemic Control: Persevering in our mission to combat the 
pandemic in fulfilment of our pivotal role 10
Poverty Alleviation: Winning the battle of targeted poverty alleviation and promoting high-quality life16
Overseas: Creating a new dynamics of international interconnection and serving the domestic and international dual-cycle22
Digitally Strengthened the Foundation of Cyber Superpower to Enhance Value26
Solidifying the foundation of a digital economy 27
Implementing universal service projects 30
Cementing the defense of network security 31
Digitally Improved People’s Living Quality to Seek Growth 32
Sharing the benefits of digital development 33
Serving the Winter Olympics with craftsmanship spirit 38
Overcoming adversity and moving forward smoothly 39
In-depth promotion for community public welfare 40
Digitally Improved Governance Efficiency with Focus on Fundamentals42
Persistence in compliant and lawful operations 43
Deepening corporate reform 44
Promoting green low-carbon development 46
Digitally Ignited the Engine of Technological Innovation to Strengthen Growth Momentum48
Optimising mechanism of technological innovation 49
Promoting application of innovative technology 50
Empowering digital transformation of industries 54
Digitally Promoted Talent Transformation and Development  to Reinforce Passion56
Optimising talent pipelines and dynamics 57
Strengthening and safeguarding employees’ rights and interests 60
Caring for the continuous growth of employees 60
Digitally Built a Mutually Beneficial and Win-win Ecosystem to Expand Cooperation64
Cooperating with peers for win-win development 65
Pushing forward in-depth industry cooperation 67
Building a digital innovation ecosystem 7004 Message from Chairman
06 Welcome to China Unicom
06 Company Profile
06 Cultural Philosophy
06 Corporate Strategy
07 Corporate Governance
09 Shareholding Structure
73 Responsibility Management
73 Strategy of Responsibility
74 Organisation of Responsibility
75 System for Responsibility
75 Capabilities on Responsibility
76 Communication on Responsibility
77 Appendices
77 Key Performance
77 Operations and development
77 Network capability
77 Commitment in major assurance Initiatives
77 Proprietary innovation
77 Customer service
77 People-oriented
78 Low-carbon development
78 Compliance management
78 Community responsibility
79 Honors and Recognition
79 Description to the Report
80 Indexes
83 Feedback
Note:  Please refer to our 2020 Annual Report for the details of  
Corporate Governance Report.CONTENTS24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.04
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
04
MESSAGE FROM CHAIRMAN
The year 2020 was an extremely tough and extraordinary year. Facing  
the complicated internal and external dynamics, the severe impact of the 
novel coronavirus disease (the “pandemic”) and the arduous reform and development missions, we shouldered the responsibilities to fight against 
the pandemic, overcome major challenges, gather great wisdom and accumulate big momentum. On the one hand, we engaged in pandemic prevention and control. On the other hand, we pushed forward reform and transformation. We made every effort to create new digital edges, and actively served people’s growing needs for high-quality digital life. We leveraged our unique edges gained from the convergence of the upstream and downstream digital industry value chains following the mixed-ownership reform to empower the transformation and upgrade of thousands  
of industries and better serve the country’s major strategies and economic and social development, establishing a positive example in fulfilling economic, environmental and social responsibilities.
Coordinating reform, transformation and development to promote 
highly effective digital governance.  We bravely acted as a “pioneer” and 
“vanguard” in digital transformation and smart operations. We promoted organic efficiency in business, products, services, management and processes through digitisation to ensure the organizational health and improve operating efficiency and customer service responsiveness. We strengthened data empowerment by creating a unified and agile digital foundation and enhancing middle platforms. We were the first in the industry to 100% complete cBSS migration and achieved interoperability and granular analysis and sharing of data in various domains, continuously empowering customers and the frontline. Adhering to the systematic concept, we consolidated and rationalised our mechanisms and systems, thoroughly reformed our operating systems, reengineered our  workflows, 
implemented a director-based accountability system, conducted anti-bureaucracy reform at the headquarters, rebooted sub-division reform and deepened the market-oriented reform of subsidiaries and branch companies, stimulating the vitality of micro-entities at all levels and better adapting production relations to productivity growth. We also improved our internal control management system, strengthened supervision and assessment and enhanced closed-loop management to effectively prevent and resolve major risks and continuously enhance our competitiveness, innovation, control, influence, and risk management capabilities.
Deploying new digital infrastructure to empower high-quality 
digital development.  As a “national team” in the development of cyber 
superpower and digital China, we shoulder the mission and responsibility of  
operators to lead the development of the digital economy. We accelerated the construction of high-speed, mobile, secure and ubiquitous digital infrastructure, and built the first and largest “co-build and co-share” 5G network in the world, consolidating China’s leading edges in 5G development in the world. We continued to promote the “co-build and co-share” of 4G networks, with a population coverage rate of over 94%, and the download speed maintaining the leading position in the industry for three consecutive years. The number of our broadband ports reached 225 million, and the average access speed increased by 24%. We accelerated the promotion of universal information services, and the coverage rate of mobile networks in towns reached 97.3%, laying a high-quality information  
foundation for the rapid development of digital economy. In order to promote digital transformation through technological innovation, we  24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.05
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
05
increased the intensity of R&D investment, established joint laboratories, 
acquired outstanding IT talents, and promoted joint innovation among industries, academia, research sector and application development. We applied for 1,734 patents and our technological innovation significantly  
improved. We deployed digital technology to fortify our network security defence, making our network secure and controllable. We fully engaged in  
pandemic prevention and control, and persevered in our important duties to assure stable communication during the pandemic. We concentrated our resources and spared no effort to ensure smooth and reliable communication network for more than 2,000 key pandemic prevention hospitals, and successfully supported the communication at 40 high-level “cloud diplomacy” events, demonstrating our important contributions to the nation. We adhered to the harmonious coexistence of human and nature, vigorously promoted green and low-carbon technologies, strengthened electromagnetic radiation management and built a green supply chain to guard the safety boundary of natural ecology.
Adhering to people-oriented philosophy to serve high-quality 
digital life.  As an operator which provides customers with high-quality 
services, we are committed to becoming a leading integrated digital service provider. We provided customers with convenient services by continuously expanding the supply of high-quality digital products, strengthening total life cycle management, enriching 5G package products, forging industry-leading cross-region integration capabilities, improving the “1+4+X” smart home product system and offering centralised smart customer services. Focusing on cloudification, Big Data analytics and intelligent transformation, we integrated advanced technologies such as 5G, AI and blockchain to help industries and enterprises improve quality and efficiency, and transform and upgrade. 
Building on proprietary capabilities, we strengthened our innovative product systems to help the digital transformation of industries such as aviation, coal, iron and steel, home appliances and machinery, etc. We opened up our smart brain data engine, gathered excellent ecological partners, and jointly built 67 municipal-level smart cities and 52 district/county-level smart cities. Building on the massive data from 31 provinces with centralised operations, we created a cloud-based, connected, data-driven, intelligent and operable “digital government” system structure, and  
developed new drivers for digital transformation driven by both platform system and operating system. Unicom Big Data Co., Ltd. won the title of “National Advanced Group in Fighting against COVID-19”. We deeply implemented “speed upgrade and tariff reduction”, with the average broadband and Internet dedicated line tariffs for corporate customers further reduced by over 15% and international roaming outbound data tariffs reduced by 4.5% year-on-year. We fully regulated the mobile number portability services, and customer service experience was significantly improved. With a goal of creating a “Smart Winter Olympics”,  
we overcame the major challenges brought by extreme winter and the pandemic, and meticulously pushed forward the network construction for the Winter Olympics to ensure that the network will be ready on time. By leveraging our network and technological edges and focusing our efforts on precise poverty alleviation, the Company successfully completed its targeted poverty alleviation and assistance missions. We arranged more than 3,000 poverty alleviation projects to lift more than 316,000 people from poverty, and we achieved the highest grade in the targeted poverty alleviation assessment for two consecutive years.Advocating open cooperation and win-win to drive the digital 
upgrade of supply chain.  We insisted on creating an “open, shared, 
inclusive and win-win” digital ecosystem, continued to deepen cooperation with strategic investors and industry-leading companies to promote the optimisation and upgrade of supply chain and value chain, and were one of the first to digitally transform our supply chain among 
central state-owned enterprises. We promoted the mutual development of various types of capital ownership structure and achieved complementary edges within an industry ecology and win-win cooperation. We promoted the ecological development of the industry, resolutely rectified vicious competition at the expense of customer interests and industry value to support the healthy and sustainable growth of the industry. We created a “new ecology” of smart living by leveraging our high-traffic portal, app to 
introduce third-party smart living resources, forming ecosystems in smart life, smart communication and smart entertainment, etc. We strengthened  
cooperation in the digital value chain and built a terminal cooperation ecosystem. We united more than 1,000 ecological chain companies to launch “Resonance Action 2020”, where we established a 5G XR terminal ecological alliance to jointly promote the in-depth development of the 5G terminal industry in specialised fields. We built a sustainable, high-quality,  
and ecological new system for channel cooperation and operation. Our online cooperation channels had more than 4,000 cloud stores and we had  
more than 20,000 micro-ecosystems, effectively driving O2O integration. We also carried out in-depth capital cooperation and successively established joint ventures such as iCloud Wisdom and Cloud Broadcasting.  
Through capital cooperation, we strengthened business cooperation with our partners to jointly provide customers with high-quality products and services.
Standing at a new starting point in 2021, we will strive to build a 
new development paradigm, deeply advance the three-year action plan of state-owned enterprise reform, and accelerate the comprehensive digital transformation. We will focus on shaping the new development advantages of high-quality services, high-quality development, highly effective governance, high-tech engines, and high-vitality operation. We will leverage the driving force of information and communication in the development of supply chain, the economy and society, and strive to achieve excellent results in the development of cyber superpower and digital China.
Wang Xiaochu
Chairman & CEOMarch 202124071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.06
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
06WELCOME TO CHINA UNICOM
 COMPANY PROFILE
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited (“China Unicom”, or the “Company”) is the Hong Kong-listed red-chip company of China United Network 
Communications Group Company Limited. It was incorporated in Hong Kong in February 2000 and listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”)1 
and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong on 21 and 22 June 2000 respectively. The Company was included as a constituent stock of the Hang Seng 
Index on 1 June 2001. The Company merged with China Netcom Group Corporation (Hong Kong) Limited on 15 October 2008. 
China Unicom’s principal operations include, among others, fixed-line service, mobile service, domestic and international communication 
facilities service, data communication service, network access service, various value-added services and system integration services related to communication and information services. China Unicom’s modern telecommunication network covers China and connects to the world. We are making vigorous efforts to drive bandwidth upgrades of our fixed-line and mobile networks as well as the implementation of the “cyber 
superpower” strategy at the corporate level, in order to provide users with a full range of high-quality information and telecommunication services. In 2020, China Unicom played a leading role in 5G, continued to build and accumulate 5G
n brand visual assets, carried out “Innovation walks with 
Intelligence” brand upgrades, and has set different brand promises for the five scenarios of consumer Internet, home Internet, experience Internet, industrial Internet and ecological platform.
In 2020, facing the complicated internal and external situations, China Unicom coordinated the pandemic prevention and control and the 
reform and development tasks. It further promoted the network “co-build and co-share” and continuously participated in positive development of the industry dynamics. It carried out comprehensive digital transformation and deepened the mixed-ownership reform and continued to make solid strides on high-quality development.
Note 1:  Based on the Executive Order 13959 issued on 12 November 2020 by the former President of the United States and the guidance by the US Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, 
NYSE staff determined to commence proceedings to delist the Company’s ADSs and suspended trading in the Company’s ADSs from 11 January 2021. In order to protect the interests of the Company and 
its shareholders, on 20 January 2021, the Company filed with NYSE a written request for a review of the determination by a Committee of the Board of Directors of the NYSE. Please refer to the Company’s announcement dated 21 January 2021. 
 CULTURAL PHILOSOPHY
China Unicom has actively practiced the strategy of cultural superpower. It upheld the motion that culture is critical in prospering and strengthening 
the corporate and continuously strengthened the construction of corporate culture. It improved the soft power of corporate culture, and built corporate 
culture system of China Unicom that consists of a core philosophy system and a code of conduct system. 
Corporate
Culture 
System of
China UnicomManagement Philosophy
All for the customers
All for the front lineAll for the marketCore Values
Customer-oriented Team collaborationOpen and innovation Committed to excellenceMission
Connect the world to innovate and share a good smart living
Vision
Be a creator of smart living trusted by customers
High prohibitions of behavioursBasic code of conduct Core Philosophy
System
Code of Conduct System
 CORPORATE STRATEGY
China Unicom deeply implemented the new development philosophy and accelerated the construction of a new development pattern. It firmly implemented  
the strategy of focus, innovation and cooperation. China Unicom will deepen the mixed-ownership reform and accelerate comprehensive digital transformation 
guided by the construction of a “Five New” China Unicom. It aims to become a comprehensive digital service provider with leading development quality, digital operation capability, factor allocation efficiency and governance efficacy by 2025; and become a world-class enterprise with global competitiveness that can 
contribute to the comprehensive construction of a modern socialist country by 2035.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.07
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
07
China Unicom has always adhered to and 
implemented the strategy of “Focus, Innovation, Cooperation”
Focus • 
Innovation • Cooperation
“Five New” China Unicom
New governance, New DNA, 
New operation, New energy, 
New ecology
Comprehensive Digital
Transformation
“Five New” China Unicom and comprehensive digital transformation are all integrated into and 
inherited from the implementation of the “Focus” strategy
Strategic framework of China Unicom
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
China Unicom is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and believes that good corporate governance is critical to the long-
term success and sustainable development of the Company’s business. The Company adopts the Companies Ordinance (Chapter 622 of the Laws of Hong Kong), 
the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong and other related laws and regulations as the basic guidelines for the corporate governance. The Company’s articles of association are in full compliance with the regulatory requirements of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. The Company takes these rules as guideline to improve the foundation of its corporate governance, and strives to comply with international and local standards for best practices in corporate governance. China Unicom did not have any instance in violation of listing-related laws and regulations in 2020. 
 Responsibilities towards the capital markets
To further enhance the information disclosure system and to ensure the truthfulness, accuracy, completeness and timeliness of its public information 
disclosures (including inside information), the Company has adopted and implemented the Information Disclosure Control Policy. In an effort to standardise the principles for information disclosures, the Company has established the Information Disclosure Review Committee which under the management and formulated the procedures in connection with the compilation and reporting of the financial and operational statistics and other information, as well as the procedures in 
connection with the preparation and review of the periodic reports. Moreover, the Company established detailed implementation rules with respect to the content and requirements of financial data verification, in particular, requiring the upward undertaking by the individual responsible officers of major departments.
The Company’s effort in corporate governance (including information disclosure) is well recognised by the capital market, and was accredited with a 
number of major awards.
 Responsibilities towards the investors
The Company attaches importance to investor relations and maintains ongoing dialogues with the shareholders, and in particular, to communicate with 
shareholders through annual general meetings. Annual general meeting shall be held every year, and extraordinary general meeting may be held when the Board deems it appropriate, the Company’s Directors and representatives of Board committees will attend the meetings. All matters at the Company’s general meetings are resolved by poll and the relevant procedures are explained at the meeting and the Company publishes the poll results in a timely manner, thereby offering protection of the shareholders’ rights and interests. The Company adopted Shareholders’ Communication Policy to ensure that the shareholders are provided with readily, equal and timely access to balanced and understandable information to protect their right to know. 
In addition to publishing annual reports and interim reports, the Company discloses unaudited financial information and other performance indicators 
on a quarterly basis and announces operational statistics on a monthly basis in order to further enhance the Company’s transparency and improve investors’ understanding of the business operation of the Company. Upon the announcement of interim and annual results or major transactions, the Company will generally hold analyst briefings, press conferences, and global teleconferences with investors, during which the Company’s management would accurately and thoroughly respond to questions raised by stakeholders. 
The Company has established the investor relations department, which is responsible for providing information and services requested by investors and 
maintaining timely communications with investors and fund managers. The Company also arranges from time to time roadshows and actively attends investor conferences arranged by investment banks, through which the Company’s management meets and communicates with investors. The Company actively responds to investors’ concerns, and transparently makes adequate disclosures on the Company’s efforts to address climate-related risks on climate change issues that have been widely concerned by investors in recent years. 
Latest updates on the Company’s significant business developments are being provided in a timely and accurate manner through announcements, press 
releases and the Company’s website (www.chinaunicom.com.hk), so that investors can keep abreast of the Company’s latest developments. The Company was voted as “Best Overall Investor Relations (Large Cap)”, “Best in Communications Sector” and the “Best in Hong Kong” at “IR Magazine Award — Greater China 2020”.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.08
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
08 The Board of Directors and management
To serve the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, the Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for reviewing and approving 
major corporate matters, including, amongst others, business strategies and budgets, major investments, capital market operations, as well as 
mergers and acquisitions. The Board of Directors is also responsible for risk management and internal control, and reviewing and approving the regular announcements periodically published by the Company regarding its business results and operating activities. In addition, the Board of Directors has overall responsibility for environmental, social and governance strategies and reporting. The Company has established three committees under the Board of Directors, namely, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee. 
Wang Xiaochu
Chairman and  
Chief Executive OfficerChen Zhongyue
Executive Director and  PresidentLi Fushen
Executive Director
Mai Yanzhou
Senior Vice PresidentLiang Baojun
Senior Vice PresidentZhu Kebing
Executive Director and  Chief Financial Officer
Fan Yunjun
Executive Director and  Senior Vice PresidentHe Biao
Senior Vice PresidentCheung Wing Lam Linus
Independent Non-executive  Director24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.09
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
09
Wong Wai Ming
Independent Non-executive 
DirectorChung Shui Ming 
Timpson
Independent Non-executive 
DirectorLaw Fan Chiu Fun Fanny
Independent Non-executive Director
Note:  Changes of the Board of Directors and management
 Chen Zhongyue was appointed on 19 February 2021.
 He Biao was appointed on 18 June 2020.
 Li Guohua has resigned on 11 March 2020.
 Shao Guanglu has resigned on 16 January 2020.
 Cesareo Alierta Izuel has retired on 25 May 2020.
 SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE
Shareholding Structure of China UnicomChina United Network Communications 
Group Company Limited
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited
(Issued shares: approximately 30.6 billion shares)
China United Network Communications Corporation LimitedChina United Network Communications Limited
(Issued shares: approximately 31.0 billion shares)Strategic investors1, employee restrictive 
incentive shares2, and other public shareholders
Public ShareholdersChina Unicom Group 
Corporation (BVI) LimitedChina Unicom (BVI) Limited100%
100%17.9%
26.4%353.5% 20.1%82.1%36.8% 63.2%
Notes:
1. In 2017, approximately 10.9 billion shares of China United Network Communications Limited were acquired by the strategic investors 
introduced by the mixed-ownership reform through non public share 
issuance and transfer of existing shares. These shares were no longer restricted from sale in November 2020.
2. Pursuant to the initial grant of restrictive share incentive scheme, China United Network Communications Limited granted approximately 
800 million restricted shares to the core employees, of which, 
approximately 300 million shares were unlocked in April 2020.
3. Excluded the interest regarding the pre-emptive right owned by China Unicom Group Corporation (BVI) Limited in 225,722,791 shares of the Company.
As at 31 December 202024071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 IR Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.10
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
10PANDEMIC CONTROL
Persevering in our mission to combat the pandemic in 
fulfilment of our pivotal role
In the face of the sudden COVID-19, China Unicom quickly responded with respect to 
pandemic prevention and communication assurance. It emphasised on both pandemic prevention and business operations to ensure smooth network communication, sound service and effective assurance. It fully leveraged its new digital technology edges to support precise pandemic prevention and the resumption of work, production and schooling, thereby contributing to the winning of the battle against COVID-19 and fully fulfilling its role as a key pillar of a great nation. 24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.11
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
11
 GOING ALL OUT TO FIGHT THE PANDEMIC
Facing the major test of pandemic prevention and control, China Unicom quickly established a prevention and control system by strictly enforcing the 
prevention and control responsibilities of units at all levels. Taking into account actual circumstances, the Company dynamically formulated various prevention and 
control measures. We went all out to leverage our edges to ensure communication security and network stability while protecting the safety of our employees, thus demonstrating the responsibility of a central state-owned enterprise.
 Quickly Establishing a Prevention and Control System
The pandemic is an order, and prevention and control are our responsibility. China Unicom took the initiative and acted quickly, carefully formulated 
work plans and emergency plans, and formed a prevention and control system with joint and strict measures both inside and outside the Company. 
A leading team for pandemic prevention and 
control was established, which consisted of five sub-
groups, namely general coordination group, medical security group, humanistic care group, building security group and legal support group. A pandemic infection report system was established. 
Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the 
Company’s Pandemic Prevention Of fice held over 60 
meetings and released 48 documents to make careful 
arrangements for formulating pandemic prevention measures, dispatching pandemic prevention materials, key communication assurance, personnel safety and treatment of infected employees, etc. 
The Company pioneered a one-on-one material 
support model among central state-owned enterprises to strengthen the allocation of pandemic prevention materials across provinces, effectively solving the problem of severe shortage of medical supplies in severely affected areas. 
An overseas pandemic prevention and control 
working team was established to carry out pandemic 
prevention and control supervision work for overseas institutions according to local actual conditions. 
China Unicom Global Limited (“CUG”) sourced  a total of 1.1 million masks and other materials for domestic pandemic prevention while 
such materials were in shortage. CUG also actively procured materials to support overseas pandemic prevention when the pandemic was raging 
overseas. Its fight against the pandemic has never stopped. 
CUG was inspecting and transporting pandemic prevention materials
 Ensuring Smooth Communication Services
As a state-owned telecommunications company, China Unicom leveraged its network advantages, insisted on a holistic thinking, and actively 
mobilised its branch companies and subsidiaries to participate in the communication assurance for local pandemic prevention and control, setting up an 
information transmission “lifeline” for fighting the pandemic. 
• Focusing on 
VIP customers such as pandemic prevention hospitals and healthcare authorities, 6,171 dedicated lines were installed/expanded, 
and 71,394 dedicated lines were specially protected to achieve zero failure. 
• Approximately 300 million users in 29 provinces were reprieved from suspension due to arrears in the emergency period. Focusing on assuring
 
communications for medical personnel, the Company offered a total of RMB9.7 billion in phone tariff discounts or giveaways to more than 20,000 medical personnel. In addition, the Company gave away free data and voice allowance to more than 130,000 medical personnel who were the Company’s customers, equivalent to approximately RMB9.04 million. 
•
 Di
stributed nearly ten billion of public service messages for pandemic prevention and control, and provided an integrated solution of “Callers’ ID/
SMS on hang-up” for provincial health commissions and CDCs. 
• Strongly promoted online service sign-up and guided users to sign up most services without leaving home. Guided users to repair faults remotely
 
to avoid potential cross-infection caused by on-site services.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.12
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
12
In early 2020, China Unicom Hubei branch kept in mind that “people’s interests are above everything else”, and went all out to fight the 
pandemic. From the network coverage of Huoshenshan Hospital and Leishenshan Hospital to the network assurance of tens of designated 
hospitals, from the dedicated line reassurance of medical institutions across the province to the network coverage of more than 20 shelter hospitals, from the 8-hour rapid network expansion for nucleic acid testing to the emergency repair of networks in bad weather, China Unicom Hubei branch dispatched assurance personnel for a total of more than 20,000 times and inspected more than 30,000 kilometers of communication lines, ensuring the smooth operation of the province’s network and making important contributions to the fight against the 
pandemic.
With an “indomitable” lofty ambition, China Unicom Guangdong Zhaoqing branch rushed into the battlefield of fighting the pandemic, and 
quickly installed three 5G base station sites for municipal health bureau and designated hospitals in 5 days. It sent a total of 20,767,000 public 
service messages for pandemic prevention and control in 57 occasions and offered phone tariff discounts to pandemic prevention personnel, becoming the “most beautiful servant” on the front line of pandemic control. 
In July 2020, in the face of the worsening COVID-19 pandemic in Xinjiang, China Unicom Xinjiang branch acted quickly, made careful 
arrangements, and took various measures to prevent and control the pandemic. It deployed communication assurance personnel for 87 times  and assurance vehicles for 56 times, inspected 38 base station sites and repaired 63 faults. It maintained 7x24 uninterrupted manual or self-service hotline services, and established a remote expert support team, providing solid communication assurance for the pandemic prevention and control. China Unicom’s Internet Pioneer Team conducting construction work at Leishenshan Hospital and “Cloud Supervision” live broadcast
Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital connected with Leishenshan Hospital for 5G medical consultation24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.13
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
13
As 2021 just began, a new round of COVID-19 invaded the 
land of Northern China, and the pandemic prevention and control in 
Hebei Province entered a wartime state. China Unicom Hebei branch  immediately launched an emergency plan, coordinated actions at provincial and city levels, and fully participated in the fight against 
the pandemic. China Unicom Shijiazhuang branch strengthened the dispatch of emergency support personnel and rescue vehicles. After 15 hours of continuous hard work, it turned on the first 5G base station in a centralised isolation point to support the pandemic prevention and control. China Unicom Xingtai branch actively assisted the local government in fighting the pandemic, went all out to strengthen its video surveillance network, and supported the testing and installation of video surveillance equipment in a total of 358 quarantine points in the urban area and 10 counties, making outstanding contributions to winning the battle against the pandemic. 
In mid-January 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic in Harbin suddenly worsened. China Unicom Heilongjiang branch shouldered its 
responsibilities and missions, and took united actions to tackle challenges around the clock to demonstrate “China  Unicom speed” and “China Unicom responsibility”. It completed in the shortest time the communication assurance for Huo-Yan Laboratory, and assisted the Harbin government in precise pandemic control with practical actions, ensuring the communication “lifeline” of the people in the city. 
 EMPOWERING RESUMPTION OF WORK AND PRODUCTION BY TECHNOLOGY
China Unicom took full advantage of new digital technologies such as cloud computing, Big Data, Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI), 
etc. to provide smart mobile products for pandemic monitoring, data platforms for pandemic prevention and control and innovative solutions, etc., thereby providing smart protection for the resumption of work, production and schooling. 
  Assisting in Precise Pandemic Prevention 
with Digital Intelligence
China Unicom capitalised on the multi-source, massive and 
integrated advantages of Big Data to empower “predictable” pandemic 
prevention and control, and provide timely decision-making support for all parties in the society, facilitating scientific and precise pandemic 
prevention and control. 
 
• With 10 self-developed platforms for population flow, pandemic  
assessment, 
AI pandemic compliance monitoring, etc., the Company 
provided more than 20,000 pandemic prevention and control analyses and reports on resumption of work and production for more than 20 national ministries and commissions and more than 300 local pandemic prevention and control departments. Travel history codes were used for 1.4 billion times.
• The Company transparently visualised data through products and services such as “community risk prediction”, “travel history query” and 
“healthy U-code”, letting the public know nearby risks at any time to avoid panic. 
China Unicom’s Big Data “healthy U code”China Unicom Hebei branch spared no effort to ensure the communication 
network construction at the centralised isolation points in Zhengding
China Unicom Heilongjiang branch completed the communication assurance for Huo-Yan Laboratory24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.14
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
14
Unicom Big Data Co., Ltd. strived to promote the integration of technological innovation and pandemic control use cases, greatly improved 
the efficiency of pandemic control through its powerful technologies and put into actions the wisdom of scientific prevention and control on the 
front line. In September 2020, the company was awarded the honorary title of National Advanced Group in Fighting COVID-19. 
China Unicom’s Big Data platform for resumption of work and production China Unicom’s “Continuous learning during suspension of classes” 
cloud courses Supporting Resumption of Work and Production with Technology
Facing the dual requirements of routine pandemic prevention and control and orderly resumption of work and production, China Unicom innovatively 
developed many digital applications such as Big Data platforms for resumption of work and production, cloud video conferencing, distance education and AI 
pandemic prevention monitoring based on key technologies such as network + Big Data + AI. Such digital applications facilitated the full resumption of work, production and schooling, and proactively served the social and economic development. 
This platform can effectively display the resumption of work and production in prefecture-level cities and key regions  
and can provide population datasets and reports on resumption of work and production, so as to provide the government 
with a basis for decision-making and promote the resumption of work and production in an orderly manner. 
Through R&D and promotion of cloud video conferencing system, the Company facilitated telecommuting, served 
more than 10,000 institutions and departments in 31 provinces, and supported 25,000 video conferences. 
The Company actively catered for the Ministry of Education’s requirement of “Continuous learning during suspension  
of classes”, and launched an innovative comprehensive solution called “WO Family Online Classroom” for all primary and secondary schools.
The pandemic compliance monitoring system developed by the Company using AI capabilities was widely used in 
campuses, hospitals, communities and other scenarios, and made positive contributions to the country’s coordination of pandemic prevention and control and the resumption of work and production. 
Since the outbreak of COVID-19, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) faced difficulties in production and 
operation. To this end, China Unicom created a supply chain finance platform to channel bank funds to credit loans of 
SMEs, thereby improving the efficiency of the financial system in supporting the private economy, building an interactive 
ecosystem of “government + banks + enterprises” and promoting the sustainable and healthy development of SMEs. Developing 
Big Data platforms for resumption of work and production
Promoting 
cloud video conferencing system
Launching 
WO Family online classroom solution
Developing 
AI-assisted pandemic prevention products
Assist SMEs to raise capital and weather the pandemic24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.15
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
15
In the face of the pandemic, China Unicom Zhejiang Jiaxing branch actively responded, and deployed more than 90 sets of thermal 
imaging body temperature monitoring equipment in production and living places such as wet markets, schools, hospitals, and enterprises, 
building the “first line of defense” for pandemic prevention and control. Building on its high-quality 5G network, the branch developed a local 
version of the “WO code” health ETC verification platform, and received a total of 2.083 million QR code scans. The branch also developed 
an online application system for enterprises to resume production, which effectively assisted 3,715 companies in Tongxiang to apply for resumption of production through “online application + on-site solution”. 
With the courage to assume responsibility, the wisdom of scientific prevention and control, the strategy of overall planning and the 
capability of effective implementation, China Unicom Shandong branch adopted a variety of solid and specific measures such as staggered 
rush hour arrival, health monitoring, heart-warming paper towels and regular disinfections to facilitate the resumption of work and production, demonstrating its meticulous care for the health of its employees, and accumulating strength for winning the fight against the pandemic. China Unicom Guangxi branch provided multi-scenario and intelligent pandemic control services using Big Data technology. The branch  
launched China Unicom’s 5G thermal imaging body temperature measurement solution, and provided 118 entities with such solution, to achieve 
long-distance, contactless, multi-target and high-precision body temperature screening. The branch also promoted China Unicom’s DingTalk Cloud Classroom among millions of households, and quickly built a “Classroom in the Air” network platform. The number of registered students of DingTalk Cloud Classroom reached 91,200, and the number of average daily active users reached 15,300, supporting “continuous teaching and learning during suspension of classes”.
Body temperature measurement solution applied in Dushangang Town
Staggered rush hour arrival of employeesA patrol robot with 5G+ infrared body temperature detection 
Comprehensive disinfection in business outlets CARING FOR THE LIVES AND HEALTH OF EMPLOYEES
China Unicom always puts the safety and health of its employees first. Due to early deployment, quick actions and strict measures in fighting 
the pandemic, the pandemic prevention and control situation of the Company was stable, maintaining a very low infection rate and zero death among 
employees.
• For employees with underage children in need of childcare and pregnant female employees, the Company adopted accommodative measures 
such as home office and flexible working hours. 
• The Company took measures to protect the well-being of employees on duty, such as strictly controlling the crowdedness in workplaces, and 
providing employees with pandemic prevention materials such as masks and disinfectants. 
• The Company endeavoured in the pandemic prevention and control for overseas employees and their family members and provided them with 
pandemic prevention materials and online psychological care. 
• The Company offered various forms of condolences and services for its employees and their family members quarantined or stranded in the 
pandemic areas, including delivering food to their homes, regular video home visits, applying for mutual aid, handling critical illness claims, etc., to effectively solve the most immediate and practical problems of its employees. 24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.16
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
16POVERTY  
ALLEVIATION
Winning the battle of targeted poverty alleviation 
and promoting high-quality life
The year of 2020 was the year of deciding victory in the fight against poverty. 
The mission of winning the fight against poverty on schedule and building a 
moderately prosperous society in all aspects has been the aspiration of the Chinese nation for thousands of years and an achievement benefiting hundreds 
of millions of people. China Unicom kept its mission firmly in mind and took its 
responsibility in a down-to-earth way with full strength to concentrate efforts on winning the battle of poverty alleviation under a paradigm of “unified leadership, 
professional implementation, integration of departments and regions and overall coordination”. With new changes taking place in more and more villages, China Unicom has embarked on a new journey by consolidating the achievements of poverty alleviation to help rural areas navigate towards high-quality development  
and common prosperity.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.17
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
17
 CONTINUOUSLY DRIVING POVERTY ALLEVIATION
China Unicom focused on acute livelihood problems in impoverished areas, and leveraged the endowed resources of poverty alleviation sites to promote 
industry development through poverty-alleviation consumption. We determined aid projects based on market demand, promoted poverty-alleviation employment 
through aid projects, expanded social influence through brand building, and helped create high-quality poverty-alleviation products, forming a sustainable poverty-alleviation model. We developed a “one product for one industry in one county” programme to help poor areas get rid of poverty.
•
  In the past five years, the Company provided poverty aid to a total of 1,959 villages in 1,255 counties, implemented more than 3,000 poverty-alleviation
 
projects, dispatched more than 3,100 poverty-alleviation officers and lifted more than 316,000 people out of poverty.
• Carried out 
poverty-alleviation consumption campaigns, helped build brands and create high-quality products. Carried out live broadcast marketing to 
overcome the adverse impact of the pandemic. Helped poor areas sell more than RMB65 million of poverty-alleviation products during the SOE Open Day on 17 May.
•
 Aimi
ng at “Two Worry-Free, Three Safeguards” in Geji county, allocated RMB52.71 million in Tibet aid funding to implement a number of projects such 
as the relocation of Fukang community, the upgrade of residential water supply and heating and the upgrade of education informatisation, etc. These projects safeguarded housing security for the poor, drinking water hygiene and compulsory education for poor students, and were widely praised by the government of Geji county and local people.
•
 Focusing on fighting poverty and building the culture of willing commitment of large state-owned enterprises, the Company compre hensively leveraged
 
technologies like 5G, online 3D panorama, the Internet of things, etc. to carry out a series of publicity activities under the theme of “fight poverty by connecting 
forces”. The activities comprised rich content and diverse formats, promoted the spirit of poverty alleviation and created a cultural atmosphere for poverty alleviation.
Set up China Unicom 
Targeted Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid Leadership Group, and specified the organisational unit for the daily work of poverty alleviation.Formulated the 13th Five Year Plan of China Unicom’s Targeted Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid, and put forward targeted poverty alleviation objectives and assistance measures during the 13th Five Year Plan period.
Issued the Opinions on Further Strengtheningthe Group's Targeted Poverty Alleviation, and established the main responsibility of the provincial branch where targeted povertyalleviation countiesare located.Convened the 2018 annual poverty alleviation work conference of China Unicom, at which Mr. Wang Xiaochu, Chairman of the Company, delivered an important speech.China Unicom Targeted Poverty Alleviation Information Management Platform went into operation.China Unicom Poverty Alleviation Conference — Realising the Chinese Dream by Further Taking United Actions was held.
The Guiding Opinions on Strengthening the Development of Poverty-alleviation Teams was issued, clearly putting forward seven measures of strict control with care for poverty-alleviation officers.The Group’s poverty alleviation office held a system-wide poverty alleviation conference in Ceheng County, Guizhou Province to comprehensively implement the poverty alleviation work under the overall poverty alleviation plan.
China Unicom’s Poverty Alleviation Publicity and Material Use Management Measures was issued to standardise and promote poverty alleviation publicity work.Issued the Poverty Alleviation Work Assessment Method of China Unicom’s Provincial Branches in 2018. Poverty alleviation work was included into the assessment management for the first time.
China Unicom’s poverty alleviation publicity website formally went online.The targeted poverty alleviation budget of provincial companies was incorporated into the overall budget of the Group for centralised management.
the Group clearly pledged to help the industry development of targeted poverty alleviation counties for the first time, establishing an aid goal of “one product for one industry in one county”.
China Unicom invited more than 40 representatives from impoverished counties under the Targeted Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid programme to attend the “2019 Shanghai 5G Innovative Development Summit”.China Unicom provincial branches signed the Letter of Responsibility in Fighting Against Poverty.
China Unicom’s first charity advertisement for poverty alleviation was broadcast on multiple channels of CCTV.China Unicom held the “Forum on Fighting Against 
Poverty — Connecting All on the Path of Poverty Alleviation” at the headquarters.
“Connecting All on the 
Path of Poverty Alleviation” — a collection of cases with poverty alleviation stories and experiences was published.Due to the pandemic, the Company communicated with Guyuan County via video conferences to show concern and inquire about the impact of the pandemic, and carry out communication and study on poverty alleviation work.General managers of 31 provincial subsidiaries carried out live broadcast marketing activities to help solve the problem of slow sales of agricultural products in impoverished areas caused by the pandemic. The total sales exceeded RMB65 million on that day.A Conference with the theme of “Fighting against Poverty by Connecting Forces” was held.
A work report exhibition of China Unicom’s assistance in fighting against poverty, with the theme of “uniting the power of Unicom to build a moderately affluent society in all aspects”, was launched online and offline simultaneously.
Chairman Wang Xiaochu published a signed article in China Poverty Alleviation Magazine titled “Creating a Breakthrough in Poverty Alleviation with the Edges of China Unicom”.53 poverty-alleviation cadres were named “China Unicom’s excellent poverty-alleviation cadre”.Commenced the formulation of the 14th Five Year Plan for the Group’s Targeted Aid Areas.
Branches in Hebei, Guizhou, Heilongjiang and Tibet were named “Advanced Unit in Fighting Against Poverty”.
Note: Unless otherwise specified, the content in this page reflects the poverty          alleviation work since 2016.Publicity and promotion
activities of agriculturalproducts in targeted povertyalleviation counties were heldin China Unicom’s annual workconference and staffrepresentative assembly.
China Unicom Targeted Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid Leadership Group was reorganised as China Unicom Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid Leadership Group. The number of member office units was expanded to 16.
China Unicom Poverty Alleviation Pavilion on JD.com went online. “China Unicom Poverty Alleviation Pavilion” was listed on China Social Poverty Alleviation Network. China Unicom Consumption Poverty Alleviation Platform went into operation.—24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.18
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
18
• China Unicom Poverty Alleviation Office was named “National Advance Group on Poverty Alleviation”.
• The consumption poverty-alleviation case won the “National Consumption Poverty-alleviation Excellent Typical Case Award  
in 2020” awarded by the National Development and Reform Commission and was selected as the “Top 50 Special Cases of Targeted  
Poverty Alleviation by Chinese Enterprises”.
• The Company’s big poverty alleviation system created a new model of poverty alleviation by central state-owned 
 
enterprises and was selected as “Top 50 Comprehensive Cases of Targeted Poverty Alleviation by Chinese Enterprises”.
• The industry 
poverty-alleviation case in Guyuan County of Hebei Province won the “Third Chinese Excellent Poverty-
alleviation Case Award” jointly awarded by the Poverty Alleviation Office of the State Council and the People’s Daily.
China Unicom Tibet branch 
purchased agricultural machinery 
and equipment for Deqingzi village to help it carry out fully mechanised agricultural production.
Set up China Unicom 
Targeted Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid Leadership Group, and specified the organisational unit for the daily work of poverty alleviation.Formulated the 13th Five Year Plan of China Unicom’s Targeted Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid, and put forward targeted poverty alleviation objectives and assistance measures during the 13th Five Year Plan period.
Issued the Opinions on Further Strengtheningthe Group's Targeted Poverty Alleviation, and established the main responsibility of the provincial branch where targeted povertyalleviation countiesare located.Convened the 2018 annual poverty alleviation work conference of China Unicom, at which Mr. Wang Xiaochu, Chairman of the Company, delivered an important speech.China Unicom Targeted Poverty Alleviation Information Management Platform went into operation.China Unicom Poverty Alleviation Conference — Realising the Chinese Dream by Further Taking United Actions was held.
The Guiding Opinions on Strengthening the Development of Poverty-alleviation Teams was issued, clearly putting forward seven measures of strict control with care for poverty-alleviation officers.The Group’s poverty alleviation office held a system-wide poverty alleviation conference in Ceheng County, Guizhou Province to comprehensively implement the poverty alleviation work under the overall poverty alleviation plan.
China Unicom’s Poverty Alleviation Publicity and Material Use Management Measures was issued to standardise and promote poverty alleviation publicity work.Issued the Poverty Alleviation Work Assessment Method of China Unicom’s Provincial Branches in 2018. Poverty alleviation work was included into the assessment management for the first time.
China Unicom’s poverty alleviation 
publicity website formally went online.The targeted poverty alleviation budget of provincial companies was incorporated into the overall budget of the Group for centralised management.the Group clearly pledged to help the industry development of targeted poverty alleviation counties for the first time, establishing an aid goal of “one product for one industry in one county”.
China Unicom invited more than 40 representatives from impoverished counties under the Targeted Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid programme to attend the “2019 Shanghai 5G Innovative Development Summit”.China Unicom provincial branches signed the Letter of Responsibility in Fighting Against Poverty.
China Unicom’s first charity advertisement for poverty alleviation was broadcast on multiple channels of CCTV.China Unicom held the “Forum on Fighting Against 
Poverty — Connecting All on the Path of Poverty Alleviation” at the headquarters.
“Connecting All on the 
Path of Poverty Alleviation” — a collection of cases with poverty alleviation stories and experiences was published.Due to the pandemic, the Company communicated with Guyuan County via video conferences to show concern and inquire about the impact of the pandemic, and carry out communication and study on poverty alleviation work.General managers of 31 provincial subsidiaries carried out live broadcast marketing activities to help solve the problem of slow sales of agricultural products in impoverished areas caused by the pandemic. The total sales exceeded RMB65 million on that day.A Conference with the theme of “Fighting against Poverty by Connecting Forces” was held.
A work report exhibition of China Unicom’s assistance in fighting against poverty, with the theme of “uniting the power of Unicom to build a moderately affluent society in all aspects”, was launched online and offline simultaneously.
Chairman Wang Xiaochu published a signed article in China Poverty Alleviation Magazine titled “Creating a Breakthrough in Poverty Alleviation with the Edges of China Unicom”.53 poverty-alleviation cadres were named “China Unicom’s excellent poverty-alleviation cadre”.Commenced the formulation of the 14th Five Year Plan for the Group’s Targeted Aid Areas.
Branches in Hebei, Guizhou, Heilongjiang and Tibet were named “Advanced Unit in Fighting Against Poverty”.
Note: Unless otherwise specified, the content in this page reflects the poverty          alleviation work since 2016.Publicity and promotion
activities of agriculturalproducts in targeted povertyalleviation counties were heldin China Unicom’s annual workconference and staffrepresentative assembly.
China Unicom Targeted 
Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid Leadership Group was reorganised as China Unicom Poverty Alleviation and Dedicated Tibet Aid Leadership Group. The number of member office units was expanded to 16.
China Unicom Poverty Alleviation Pavilion on JD.com went online. “China Unicom Poverty Alleviation Pavilion” was listed on China Social Poverty Alleviation Network. China Unicom Consumption Poverty Alleviation Platform went into operation.—24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.19
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
19
China Unicom Qinghai branch’s targeted aid to the wolfberry bud tea industry in Yangpo Village helped the village be rated as an exemplary 
village of “one product in one village” by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs.
China Unicom Xiong’an Industrial Internet Co., Ltd. made great efforts to promote education informatisation in Kangbao County, 
encompassing smart campus, education cloud platform, dedicated 5G education network to solve the problems of lack of education management 
tools and unbalanced distribution of education resources in the county.
The case of China Unicom Guizhou branch helping lift 
Ceheng County out of poverty through the banana industry chain was selected as the Excellent Case of East-West Cooperation and Targeted Poverty Alleviation by the Poverty Alleviation Office of 
the State Council.  China Unicom Shanxi Yangquan branch developed forsythia 
planting industry in Yangshuzhuang Village.
 BUILDING INFORMATION HIGHWAY
China Unicom adhered to the sincere belief of “people’s telecommunications for the people” to strengthen its initial aspirations. It focused on the 
impoverished areas and accelerated the construction of broadband network, 4G, 5G and other infrastructures, striving to narrow the digital divide for the impoverished areas. It continuously optimised the existing targeted poverty-alleviation packages and various preferential policies to ensure that the villagers can access affordable and quality communication services.
•
 Accelerated infrastructure construction and network coverage in impoverished areas and promoted the development of broadband and 
4G 
network infrastructure in aid areas.
• Achieved full coverage of poverty-alleviation packages in impoverished areas. Added new or optimised existing packages according 
to local 
circumstances to ensure that the targeted poverty-alleviation packages met the needs of customers, letting them enjoy affordable services. Ensured that mobile packages had 3/4G Internet access and broadband packages had a downlink speed of at least 100Mbps, letting customers enjoy quality services. Approximately 2.567 million subscribers in poverty were benefitted with total savings in communication costs of RMB377 million.
•
 Launched digital village products. By comprehensively creating “digital township” ecosystem with “communication + platform + hardware 
+ 
service”, China Unicom helped advance Rural Revitalisation Strategy, helped the government solve governance problems and provided villagers with convenient living services. A total of 10,000 administrative villages were covered.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.20
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
20RMB 561 MILLIONTotal savings in communication expenses in the past five years amounted to
Over 4.3 MILLION  
impoverished customers were 
benefitted
China Unicom Bayannaoer branch in Inner Mongolia is committed to addressing the communication needs of farmers and herdsmen in 
impoverished and underdeveloped areas. It provided convenient services for registered households in poverty and the disabled and offered 
targeted poverty alleviation products such as Caring Cards. 213 registered households in poverty were benefitted with total tariff concessions of 
over RMB10,000.
 STEPPING INTO THE HIGHLAND OF SMART AGRICULTURE
China Unicom comprehensively used 5G, cloud computing, Big Data, Internet of Things, artificial intelligence and other information technologies 
to empower industries with local characteristic and create comprehensive solutions for smart agriculture, thereby enhancing governance and informatisation in villages, and promoting comprehensive agricultural upgrade, rural advancement and farmers’ development.
Smart agriculture system
China Unicom Fujian Ningde branch kept innovating in digital agriculture. In cooperation with Fu’an Agricultural Reclamation Group, it 
established a platform of “5G smart tea garden” to achieve automated tea production and management. It was successfully showcased in the third “Digital China” Summit to boost rural revitalisation.
Comprehensive management platform of smart tea garden Smart tea garden• Built a digital village platform which served 200 townships 
a
nd thousands of villages in China. Developed benchmark projects 
such as Wenshu Town in Jiayuguan City, Gansu Province, Maochang Town in Bijie City, Guizhou Province, and Dapo Township in Rong’an, Liuzhou City to promote digital governance and solve practical problems like frequent travel for farmers.
•
 Supported and participated in farmers’ mobile phone 
application 
skills training activities organised by the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Affairs for consecutive years. The training activities in 2020 covered 309 districts and counties in 10 provinces with a total of more than 300,000 participants. It helped narrow the information gap between travel and rural areas.
•
 Implemented over 80 national, provincial, municipal and 
county-level 
smart agriculture and modern industrial park projects in 
Yangxi of Guangdong Province, Zunyi of Guizhou Province, Shouguang of Shandong Province and Dali of Shaanxi Province, and provided 700,000 greenhouses with environmental monitoring to help upgrade the agricultural industry. 
24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.21
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
21
China Unicom Shanghai branch and the Paper News jointly 
launched a voluntary education campaign for children in snow 
areas. In 2020, the campaign delivered via “cloud classes”, a variety of “face-to-face” courses to the children of Bilibili primary school in Weishan County, Dali City, Yunnan Province. Voluntary education for children in snow areas benefited a total 
of nearly 8,000 students with more than RMB1.5 million worth of donated materials.Beating China red and communication blue — China 
Unicom Youth League Committee and Youth Foundation donated scarfs to students in Geji County, Tibet.
 DELIVERING THE WARMTH OF CHARITABLE POVERTY ALLEVIATION
China Unicom cooperated with its peers and joined forces to actively explore effective ways of charitable poverty alleviation and build an ecosystem 
of charitable poverty alleviation among enterprises, users and the public. It carried out charity activities such as financial aid for students thorough credit points, education for children in snow areas, charitable poverty alleviation campaigns and heartwarming voluntary services, so that all parties’ charitable deeds could effectively help the fight against poverty.
•
 The financial aid programme through credit points raised 
R
MB4.387 million for students in poverty from 442,000 participating 
employees and customers.
• Ca
rried out “scarfs for winter” campaigns to deliver warmth to 
children in impoverished areas. OVER 30,000
volunteers participated in the charitable poverty alleviation activities  
in the past five years.
24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.22
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
22OVERSEAS
Creating a new dynamics of international 
interconnection and serving the domestic and international dual-cycle
In the face of increasing complexity, challenge and uncertainty of the 
international situation, China Unicom accurately identified changes, scientifically 
responded to changes, took the initiative to seek changes, and was able to adapt  
in grasping the nettle and opening up a new situation in the changing tides. Based on the overall plan domestically and oversea, China Unicom strived to promote the  
differentiation advantages of global cloud-network integration and cloudification 
servicing capabilities, relying on “dual-cycle of digital economy” to help building a new pattern of high-quality international business development while fulfilling 
the responsibilities as a global corporate.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.23
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
23
 IMPROVING CROSS-BORDER SERVICE QUALITY
China Unicom firmly captured the new opportunities of global changes, constantly improved its international business operating quality, providing a 
series of end-to-end global integrated information services for global enterprise customers both domestically and internationally, as well as global voice 
and data services for individual customers overseas. In 2020, overall service quality continued to improve, providing customers with more innovative and more best-value products and services, which helped customers to adapt to changes in the international situation and eliminating the adverse impact of the pandemic.
Country distribution of 41,000 “Going Abroad” enterprises
Europe
4800
Hong Kong,
Macau and Taiwan
12300Central Asia and
the Middle East
1500Japan and South Korea
1800North America
7000
South America
1200
Oceania
1300Southeast Asia
5800Africa
2500Germany：1145
Russia：934
United Kingdom：536
Singapore：1123Vietnam：1005Indonesia：748Malaysia：704Thailand：659Cambodia：583Myanmar：451Laos：351Philippines：201 South Africa
153Hong Kong
12173United States of America
5849
Brazil
205Australia
1011Japan：1040
South Korea：786
Unit: number
Committed to becoming the priority choice for customers “Going Abroad” and “Coming in”• In order to meet the needs of international customers, China Unicom launched domestic- and overseas-integrated cloud 
networking 
services, implemented the interconnection among 28 resource pools of 8 overseas cloud enterprises, and achieved the 
comprehensive leading position of product functionality to provide users with one point/multi-point cloud, multi-cloud connection, 
hybrid networking, cross-border interconnection services, which delivered advantages such as all scenario, multi-cloud, multi-access, flexibility, manageability, self-service, and etc.
• During the pandemic, China Unicom strengthened customer care, implemented data allowance increase without price 
increase for 102 popular international roaming locations, and launched low-cost minimal data products for long-term resident us
ers in 
23 popular overseas locations, which greatly improved user perception.
• In order to meet with the high-demanding requirement of ultra-low latency of the customers in financial industry, 9 low latency  
financial dedicated lines in 6 directions were built.
• China Unicom continued deepening speed upgrade and tariff reduction, realising 197 countries and regions of international 
roaming and visiting products, opening the access to a number of 5G international roaming and visiting countries or regions, and
 
launching international roaming data package products for multiple day use in multiple countries. In 2020, the international roaming and visiting data tariff declined by 4.5% year on year.
•
 The promotional video of “connecting you and me in the big world” was produced to demonstrate the international image of 
customer-oriented, open and innovative, and pursuit of excellence.
24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.24
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
24 SERVING THE “BELT AND ROAD” INITIATIVE
China Unicom thoroughly implemented the “Belt and Road” initiative (the “BRI”). Based on the layout of the domestic and overseas markets, China 
Unicom promoted the dynamic allocation of resources within the global scope to create the setting of “one market, one network, one-stop service, one 
system, one big ecological cooperation” for domestic and overseas. China Unicom provided high-quality communication channels with low latency for “Going Aboard” enterprises and provided convenience for customers visiting the BRI countries or regions. facilitating the interconnection of the BRI.
•
 Strengthening market cooperation, focusing on “Going Abroad” key industries such as industrial manufacturing, finance, government 
media, 
transportation and logistics, energy, commercial retail, etc., providing scenario solutions such as digital finance, cross-border WiFi operation, thermal 
imaging and Smart stores, and establishing a domestic and international operation system with highly efficient linkage.
• Cont
inuously building information optical channels, further expanding global interconnectivity by opening 15 express lines of the BRI to provide 
high-quality communication channels with low latency for “Going Aboard” enterprises. Focusing on the development of central Europe and South Asia Pacific, China Unicom completed the construction of four PoPs (overseas business access points), with over 130 overseas PoPs in 80 countries and regions around the world; the Company completed the three-tier expansion of 1,000 cabinets in its Hong Kong Global Center, upgraded the mobile core network in Hong Kong, and supported the 5G NSA activation; various kinds of international Internet extranet bandwidth totaled 3.9T.
•
 For the convenience of the customers to visit the BRI countries, international roaming products covered 128 countries of the BRI, 
with 5G 
roaming services activated in 7 countries of the BRI.
• Accelerating the digital transformation of international business services, building a Smart living service portal with one-point 
access, all-
regions service and global guarantee, promoting the connection and Smart operation within border and out of boarder customer service, so as to transform and upgrade into one-stop global service.
•
 Building domestic and international unified digital foundation to provide support for digital production and operation of international business.
• Strengthening the core of circle of trust of the BRI while carrying out dedicated cooperation around network resources, mobile roaming 
and 
innovative products, and upgrading the cooperation format to accelerate the integration process of domestic and foreign ecological cooperation.
 BEING A GLOBAL CORPORATE CITIZEN
China Unicom continuously improved the level of compliance management by insisting in integrity operation, implementing localised operation and 
actively caring for employees, society, community to build a mutually beneficial win-win development community.
 Carrying out Operation and Compliance with Integrity
China Unicom Global Limited operates China Unicom’s overall international business in accordance with the law, improving the corporate 
governance structure and strictly complying with the local market rules and business regulations. In 2020, according to the Company’s management and business characteristics, combined with optimum international practice experience, China Unicom further improved the compliance management system, paid close attention to major risk, actively responded to the implementation of various countermeasures, and ensured the orderly development of overseas business activities in the legal and compliance manner.
• 16 overseas operation companies, on the basis of the 
full coverage of “one country, one policy” risk prevention, timely made adjustment and changes to the compliance manual and carried 
out training and risk assessment according to the local 
relevant laws and regulations in the location of the operation companies.•
 Undersea cable construction actively strived for the 
support 
of the local government, met with the requirements 
of the local ecological environment, and supplemented local residents with prudence compensation.
•
 China Unicom continuously broadened its international 
horizon, deeply 
cultivated its “U” image, won a number of 
international awards for honest management, and persistently improved its overseas brand value. •
 In 2020, there was no case on dishonesty, violation of 
la
ws and regulations, disorderly competition, infringement of 
aboriginal rights and commercial bribery.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.25
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
25
 FULFILLING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OVERSEAS
China Unicom actively participated in overseas charity activities to give care for the society, fighting the pandemic and demonstrating its 
responsible corporate image.
China Unicom Global Limited participated in a series of 
“Women in Leadership” exchange activities organised by the Thai 
Chamber of Commerce in Canada and communicated with female representatives who founded or managed the enterprises, promoting the establishment of the women’s economic circle (sheconnects.org).China Unicom Global Limited participated in the grassroot charity 
activity of “tablet computers for everyone to learn online” jointly organised by the Hong Kong Federation of Women and Regional Service Office of Federation of Trade Unions to provide the Company’s CUniq charity version of data card and tablet computer as a support to the charity activities, actively contributing to serve the society.
 Implementing Local Responsible Operation
Under the principle of “one system”, along with the goal 
of building an agile and Smart supply chain, “globalization” has integrated the global supply chain and conducted local cooperative management by regions and categories.
•
 26 institutions were set up across the globe covering 
services 
in 23 countries and regions to assist in the development 
of the telecommunication industry, as well as facilitating local employment and economic development.
•
 The Company actively employed local staff. As at the end 
of 
2020, total number of CUG employees amounted to 880, including 
750 overseas employees and 282 overseas female employees.
• In strict compliance with the legal requirements of the 
local 
sites, China Unicom has safeguarded the legitimate rights 
and interests of local employees, respected the local customs by formulating a salary and welfare system in line with local customs, formulated differentially monetary subsidy projects, actively organised sports activities and welfare publicity and implementation, and took practical actions to fulfill the social responsibility of caring for  
local employees.
•
 China Unicom actively participated in various activities 
organised by local associations and maintaining good communication  
with local communities and Chinese enterprises.
• In order to ensure energy conservation, environmental
 
protection, health and safety of the equipment provided by the supplier, China Unicom formulated an audit system of procurement scheme, and implemented the scenic procurement and standardised management. 
China Unicom Global Limited was awarded the qualification certification of  
“Caring Company” issued by The Hong Kong Council of Social Service24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.26
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
26
Digitally Strengthened the Foundation of Cyber 
Superpower to Enhance Value
Solidifying the foundation of a digital economy
Implementing universal service projectsCementing the defense of network security24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.27
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
27
Building new digital infrastructure and strengthening security. Adhering to the people-oriented value and fundamental logic, China Unicom 
accelerated the construction of high-speed, mobile, safe, and ubiquitous new infrastructure, improved the network quality and operational 
efficiency using digital operations, speeded up network construction in remote areas, and persisted to maintain network information security, while continuously consolidated the foundation of the digital economy and striving to build the nation into a cyber superpower and digital China.DIGITALLY STRENGTHENED THE FOUNDATION OF CYBER SUPERPOWER TO 
ENHANCE VALUE
Measures adopted in 2020 Actions to be taken in 2021
• Th
e cumulative scale of 5G base stations reached 
380,000, with 5G population coverage rate reached 40%, the 4G 
population coverage rate reached 94%, and the all-network VoLTE coverage rate reached 96.8%.
•
 The total number of broadband ports reached 225 million, 
and the average access speed reached 185Mbps.
• The construction of integrated cloud and network 
capabilities 
was accelerated, building intelligent network 
capabilities facing the future.
• Unified digital base and Smart middle platform built to 
create digital operation capabilities.
• The fifth batch of universal services was completed, 
comprising 
of 2,857 administrative villages, 3,073 4G base 
stations and 176 border base stations were built, and such projects were completed with an investment of RMB624 million. In 2020, RMB330 million was invested in network poverty alleviation.
•
 A total of 140 million fraudulent and harassing calls were 
intercepted, and 1.28 billion spam messages were blocked.• To push forward network evolution and applications, 
vigorously 
promoting the commercialization of slicing, uRLLC, 
dedicated networks, and MEC, deploying VoNR on a trial basis, 
and accelerating the deployment of 10G PON.
• To promote precise planning and improve network quality 
through 
the integration of planning, construction, maintenance, 
optimization, and business, further enhancing user perception.
• To accelerate 
the integration of cloud and network and 
promoting the construction of intelligent operation support system  
to improve the efficiency of network industry collaboration.
• To continue to build an agile digital base and to accelerate 
the 
construction of core capabilities in middle platforms, to 
creating a brain for Smart operations.
• To 
actively participate in delivering universal 
telecommunications services and speeding up network construction in remote areas.
•
 To build a network information security system focusing 
on 
security operations, security capabilities, security technology 
innovation, security talents and security systems, maintaining national network information security.
 SOLIDIFYING THE FOUNDATION OF A DIGITAL ECONOMY
China Unicom firmly grasped the trend of information technology changes, accelerated the construction of information infrastructure, consolidated 
the network foundation of the digital society, and opened up the “main artery” of information for the development of the digital society.5G population coverage 
rate reached 
40%Industry leading average 4G download 
speed for three 
consecutive years
4G population coverage 
rate reached 94%
All-network VoLTE 
coverage rate 
reached 96.8%Coverage rate in 
administrative villages 
reached 86%Improving 
mobile network 
perceptionMobile network coverage 
rate in towns and townships 
reached 97.3%24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.28
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
28In the process of 5G construction, numbers of models and 
industry benchmarks have emerged. In Wuhan, the co-sharing 5G 
base station in the Huoshenshan Hospital was opened up in 36 hours, making a record construction speed. The 5G base stations built at the observation deck of Mount Everest (at an altitude of 5,000 meters above sea level) and Camp No. 1 (at an altitude of 5,200 meters above sea level) broke new record in heights in construction. In Jiangsu, the 4G/5G coverage of the Shanghai–Suzhou–Nantong Yangtze River Bridge, the largest cable-stayed dual road-rail bridge in the world, was jointly completed. 
The Company constructed and deployed directly affiliated data centers in Langfang, Guian, Hohhot, Harbin, Deqing and other cities, and 
built 10 data room buildings with a total construction area of 326,000 square meters, delivered 23,336 racks, and opened up a bandwidth of 3.9T, which aimed to provide users in various industries with rental of a series of basic IDC products such as racks, machine space, broadband, IP addresses and additional power, as well as a full set of IDC value-adde d product services such as security services, application services, and  
key security services.
China Unicom rolled out 5G network connection at Mount Everest and  
conducted an 24-hour online live broadcast
China Unicom accelerated the construction of cloud data center, focusing on the five key areas of Beijing–Tianjin–Hebei, Yangtze River Delta, 
Pearl River Delta, Sichuan–Shaanxi–Chongqing and Shandong–Henan to create a “5+2+31+X” system. The Company formed and established China Unicom’s “Smart Cloud” data center brand, and promoted the IDC value management through customer segmentation, precise planning and marketing with brand new image and differentiated product services.
 Promoting the Integration of Cloud and Network
China Unicom closely followed the trend of future network evolution, strengthened cloud-network integration, accelerated the construction of 
cloud-network integration capabilities, continued to explore cloudification and intelligent network structure and evolution strategies, to build a future-
oriented intelligent network.
Speeding up cloud-network layout
China Unicom realized intensive construction in cloud resource pool, completed the delivery of more than 10,000 server 
resources, and promoted the construction and application of a unified monitoring platform for the cloud resource pool.
• The communication Cloud completed the DC layout of the “6+2” greater regions, meeting the cloud platform deployment 
requirements of innovative services such as 5GC control plane network elements, VoLTE ringtones, and 5G messaging, as well as the
 
requirements of MEC layout services.
• The IT Cloud followed the “4+2” data center layout, meeting the needs of various IT system construction within the enterprise.
Promoting network development to SDN
The IP backbone, smart metropolitan area network and OTN (optical transport network) basically realized 100% SDN (software-
defined network), which supported the automatic opening up of cloud unified networking, 5G base station access, and premium 
network for government and enterprises customers.
Building low-latency networksThe Company continuously optimized the latency of China169 backbone network to provide better user perception. During 
the year, the latency index was optimized for more than 1.5ms, and the average latency of the overall network was below 31ms, 
maintaining the leading position in the industry.
 Accelerating New 5G Infrastructure
China Unicom vigorously promoted the construction of 5G infrastructure, and co-built with China Telecom the world’s first and largest scale co-
sharing 5G network. The 5G network reached a cumulative scale of 380,000 base stations, achieved 5G outdoor coverage in all prefecture-level cities, key counties and developed towns, and realizing the world’s first large-scale commercialization of SA network.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.29
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
29
Based on the technical characteristics of 5G and supplemented by new technologies such as “AI and big data”, Qingdao Unicom provided 
customized, agile and convenient enterprise-specific mobile networks to ensure a good network experience.
In 2020, Shanghai Unicom carried out the comprehensive transformation of the Nanjing East Road Smart City Information Project. The new 
5G transformation project adopted MDT traffic big data and accurately pinpointed. The wireless communication signal coverage along Nanjing 
East Road was greatly improved, and the 5G coverage reached above 95%.
Illustration of the 5G Rubik’s Cube Tower on Nanjing East Road 5G points based on MDT planningExpanding broadband network coverage
In 2020, the investment in broadband access amounted to RMB2.05 billion, and 8.47 million broadband ports were built. The total number of ports 
reached 225 million, covering 380 million broadband residential units and 69,000 commercial buildings. The average network access speed reached 
185Mbps, representing an increase of 24% year-on-year.
Carrying out precise network construction
Based on O+B big data analysis, China Unicom made precise and efficient investment. In key cities and key areas, through multi-dimensional data 
overlay analysis, the Company accurately identified the areas with problems, and effectively improved network quality and user perception. In 2020, 
a total of 2,229 complaint-driven construction tasks have kicked off, and a total of 2,137 construction tasks were completed, with a completion rate 
of 96%. In other cities and other areas, focusing on 5G terminals and business clusters, the Company carried out precise construction to continuously improve the internet access rate of 5G users. By the end of 2020, the internet access rate of 5G users exceeded 50%.
 Carrying out Digital Operations
In 2020, China Unicom further advanced its digital transformation strategy, built a unified digital base and Smart middle platform, formed digital 
operation capabilities, significantly improved the Company’s operational efficiency, and served customers faster and more conveniently.
Building a unified digital base
Based on the advantages of proprietary IT research and development, China Unicom completed the integration of B/M/D domains, and initially 
formed an agile digital base of “shared platforms, shared capabilities, shared technology stacks and shared R&D systems” to achieve one-stop resource 
acceptance, unified monitoring and unified operations. Optimizing Network Experience
China Unicom has been committed to building a premium network with leading perceptions by continuously improving network coverage, 
enhancing network quality, precise construction and increasing network resource efficiency, so as to provide high-quality network service support for a 
variety of business applications.
Improving mobile network awareness
In 2020, the 5G population coverage reached 40%, the 4G population coverage rate reached 94%, and the all-network VoLTE coverage reached 
96.8%. The average 4G download speed maintained a leading position in the industry for three consecutive years. The mobile network coverage reached 
97.3% in towns and townships, and 86% in administrative villages.China Unicom and Huawei jointly released the “White 
Paper on All-optical Bases in the Cloud Era”(《雲時代的全光底座白皮書》), proposing for the first time an all-optical base with comprehensive carrying capacity for digital transformation, which fully supported the industry’s digital transformation and the development needs of new cloud services, providing customers with customization and differentiation telecom services.
Press conference of the “White Paper on All-optical Bases in the Cloud Era”24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.30
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
30
Hainan Unicom expanded and strengthened its Big data platform, enhanced its real-time processing capabilities, supported real-time data 
viewing and real-time scenario-based marketing, optimized Smart decision-making systems, business decision-making APPs and interactive 
platforms, and built digital Internet map capabilities. It also realized the data collection and distribution of various resource information in the map customized marketing area through the electronic filtering function of IDS Smart decision-making system.
 IMPLEMENTING UNIVERSAL SERVICE PROJECTS
China Unicom has always adhered to the people-oriented development philosophy, taking the improvement of people’s well-being as the starting 
point and goal of digital development, while serving nation’s major strategies and the overall layout of local economic and social development, which 
speeding up the construction of information infrastructure in rural and remote areas, and realizing information to benefit the people.
China Unicom completed the fifth batch of universal services, involving 2,857 administrative villages, completed the build-out of 3,073 4G base 
stations and 176 border base stations, with an investment of RMB624 million. The Company further promoted the bidding and implementation of the sixth batch of Unicom Telecommunications Universal Service Pilot Projects, involving approximately 1,122 administrative villages. After the first to sixth 
batches of universal service rural pilot projects and the 4G construction of China Unicom’s special poverty alleviation network projects, our 4G networks have covered remote rural areas in 139 cities of 24 provinces, and the construction and coverage involving 8,275 administrative villages. The planned construction scale of 4G base stations in administrative villages is 14,669, and broadband coverage achieved in 306,000 administrative villages, vigorously promoting and revitalizing the construction of the rural network.•
 Providing application solutions: The cloud platform provided 183 components in 8 categories, internally serving the headquarters and more than
 
40 subsidiaries and branch companies, and supporting more than 380 applications.
• Actively carrying out external empowerment: The Company exported PaaS products and privatization deployment plans to “WO Cloud”, providing
 
supports to government and enterprise customers such as Zhongshan Perfect, National University of Defense Technology, HIT Zhengyuan, Shandong Hi-speed and others.
Building Smart middle platform capabilities
China Unicom built  five smart middle platforms to create the Company’s new digital IT core engines, to agilely empower for business, management 
and network, and accelerated product innovation, optimized customer experience, improve operational efficiency and prosperous ecological cooperation.
•
 Public middle platform: to empower the front end, connect core processes and data, and improve sharing and reuse capabilities. The 
middle 
platform made 970 million recommendations for the all customer value operation strategy and accumulated 9.41 million orders.
• Government-enterprise middle platform: Fo
r customers, it was designed to complete the launch of online portals of government and enterprises; 
for the frontline, it optimized innovation headlines and government-enterprise assistants, collecting 267,000 business opportunities; for the market, it 
achieved the BO connection of dual-line business in 31 provinces; for ecological construction, it provided partners with one-stop services, bringing in together 1,152 partners.
•
 Netwo
rk middle platform: to carry out the decoupling and construction of 10 major competence centers; the resource scheduling system 
provided more than 300 API services, 51 AI models and 178 network data services to achieving 5-day dual-line business access.
• Management middle platform: the user center and process center completed 1,170 access application certifications, 2,383 process template 
accesses, 
35 open capabilities; to break through the breakpoints of contracts and business opportunities, and empowering all go-online of government 
and enterprises.
• Data middle platform: to optimize and integrate the basic capabilities of data centers and strengthen Big data empowerment. The data service to
 
API had been in service for more than 29 billion times, empowering 78 scenarios and terminal sales in digital business outlets, and weekly sales volume increased by 259%.
Hunan Unicom further promoted telecommunication 
universal services and continuously improved network 
coverage in rural and remote areas. A total of 626 rural sites were built, and wireless network coverage was added in 592 administrative villages. This has enabled rural users in six cities of Zhuzhou, Xiangtan, Zhangjiajie, Yueyang, Hengyang and Yiyang to enjoy stable and high-quality broadband network services, building a bridge to communicate with the outside world.
In line with the intention of benefiting the people’s 
livelihood and doing practical things for the people, Xinjiang Ili Unicom launched the “Rural Broadband Universal Service” project to undertake the task of broadband construction in rural areas and remote villages in the Ili Prefecture. Since 2017, construction has been completed in 70 administrative villages and 3,136 optical network ports have been built, enabling more than 3,000 users to enjoy broadband networks with a bandwidth of 50M or above, realizing the “optical network Ili”.
24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.31
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
31
China Unicom held the 2020 Network Security Skills Competition and the National Industrial Internet Security Technology Skills Contest 
Trial. The Company leveraged competitions to promote training and by training to promote learning. Through the competitions, China Unicom’s 
network security protection capabilities were further enhanced, and the skill level of network security professional and technical personnel was greatly improved. CEMENTING THE DEFENSE OF NETWORK SECURITY
Without network security, there will be no national security, social stability, and the safety of the interests of the people. China Unicom takes the 
maintenance of national network security as its mission, accelerates the construction of an information infrastructure security system, improves network 
security governance capabilities, perceives the network security situation in all directions, prevents network ideological risks, and strengthens the “firewall” for economic and social development using digital technology, and to escort high-quality development and people’s happy life, all as assistance to building a higher level of security China.
 Striving to Ensure Network Security
China Unicom regards the maintenance of network information security as an important mission of conscientiousness and responsibility. The 
Company adheres to top-level design to build a “five-complete” network information security system and also optimizes network security products, 
integrates security development throughout all fields and the entire process of the Company’s development, striving to improve security protection 
capabilities.
Enhancing active defense capabilities
• The Company pushed forward the improvement 
of 
public Internet network security threat management 
capabilities, and the monitoring and handling capabilities 
at mobile Internet level reached 39Tbps, achieving full coverage of 3/4/5G mobile core network monitoring. It also has the capability of two-way traffic monitoring, handling with 20T link bandwidth at the broadband Internet level.
•
 A comprehensive system for monitoring and 
handling 
capabilities for malicious network resources, 
malicious programs, Trojan horses viruses and botnets is formed, effectively reduced the attacks and influence of 
botnets, Trojan horse viruses, and malicious programs.Building safe product capabilities
•
 The development, construction and deployment of DDoS 
protection 
capabilities were actively promoted, with the protection 
capability of the all network reaching over 5T, effectively improving the 
strengths of the large network and internal systems.
• The Company carried out the construction of 
the expansion of 
the basic network 4A platforms, realized the unified management of 691 network resource domains and 8,521 operation and maintenance accounts nationwide, effectively supporting basic network security management.
•
 The development, construction and deployment of the unified 
security 
capability management platforms such as DDoS protection, 
domain name protection, website security monitoring, website firewall  
(cloud WAF), vulnerability scanning, traffic intelligent filtering, and five 
security resource pools were completed.
 Combating Communication Fraud
China Unicom resolutely implemented the state’s efforts to prevent and combated communication information fraud, to maintain normal 
communication order, protect personal data privacy, and safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of users.
• Actively implemented the requirements of the Cyberspace Administration of China and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology 
on 
the collection and use of users’ personal information in compliance with laws and regulations, and completed the supplementary revisions to the “China 
Unicom User Privacy Policy” and “China Unicom Customer Access Service Agreement”, to fully protect user privacy.
• Improved the data security management level, carried out special investigations on personal information protection in joint pandemic prevention
 
and control, completed special rectification of APP infringement of users’ rights and interests, conducted offline processing of 2 APPs, and ordered 
rectification of 9 APPs within the limited period.
• Ca
rried out in-depth control of fraudulent calls, harassment calls and spam messages, and conducted intensive deployment of fraud and 
harassment call monitoring and handling systems. According to the user’s willingness to answer, the Company provided customers with spam call prevention services, which was widely recognized by customers. In 2020, a total of 140 million fraud and harassing calls as well as 1.28 billion spam messages were intercepted, 25,000 fraud calls, 157,000 harassment calls and 56,000 spam messages reported were handled accumulatively.
•
 Increased promotion guidance on customer security awareness, made full use of traditional media, new media, SMS and other promotional 
channe
ls to promptly market and remind users of various information security, and timely provided customers with overseas call reminder services, with 
an average of more than 42.37 million reminders per month.
China Unicom’s Big data anti-fraud capabilities have made breakthrough progress. The “Big data anti-fraud system” was awarded 
the “Network Security Technology Application Pilot and Demonstration Project” by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. The Company has established an anti-fraud joint laboratory with CAICT to enhance its influence in the industry.
Sichuan Unicom built its intelligent anti-fraud monitoring and handling platform and tools, strengthened the province’s ability to analyze 
and early-warn suspected fraudulent calls based on Big data, improved the accuracy of fraudulent phone recognition, and achieved outstanding results in precise fraud prevention. In 2020, more than 5,000 fraudulent and suspected phone numbers were shut down every month, and more than 500 channels were punished and rectified. These measures effectively curbed the proliferation of fraudulent calling cards, and 
Sichuan Unicom maintained the lowest rate of suspected criminal phone numbers among operators in the province according to the Ministry of Public Security.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.32
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
32
Digitally Improved
People’s Living Quality to Seek Growth
Sharing the benefits of digital development
Serving the Winter Olympics with craftsmanship spiritOvercoming adversity and moving forward smoothlyIn-depth promotion for community public welfare24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.33
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
33
DIGITALLY IMPROVED PEOPLE’S LIVING QUALITY TO SEEK GROWTH
 SHARING THE BENEFITS OF DIGITAL DEVELOPMENT
Adhering to the concept of innovation and sharing, China Unicom continued to explore innovative models and methods to promote better products, channels, brands, tariffs and service 
levels, striving to push forward the sharing of digital economy development bonus in the entire society.
 Launching the Brand Revitalization Project
China Unicom attaches great importance to the leading role and value of the brand in the corporate development, and has launched the brand revitalization project in a comprehensive way. Making  
China Unicom’s Chinese Ruyi Knot becoming a “happy knot”, “innovation knot” and “wisdom knot” shared by all people, it symbolizes connection with the world, thousands of households, thousands of 
industries, and embracing the Smart future with a new attitude.The development of information infrastructure and the iterative innovation of digital technology have given the people a sense of gains, 
happiness and security. Shouldering the mission of construction of a cyber superpower and relying on high-quality information and communication infrastructure, China Unicom has continuously enriched the connotations of communication products and services, vigorously improved network quality and user experience, and committed to enhancing the country’s overall information technology development, providing customers with satisfactory and high-quality communication services, as well as allowing more consumers to share the bonus of technological progress and obtaining a better business perception experience.
Measures adopted in 2020 Actions to be taken in 2021
Strengthening brand management standards
China Unicom shaped a unique brand strategy, to optimize brand positioning and 
to build a brand strategy model, while formulating the related system specifications for its 
brand building and management, further regulated and improved the brand management 
system through VI visual system, band structure, brand platform, brand testing, and etc.Shaping the brand connotations
China Unicom’s new brand revitalization has been positioned at “Innovating and 
Sharing a Warm Smart Living”, shaping a world-class central state-owned enterprise brand that is personal, warm, down-to-earth and humanistic, creating high-value services for consumers and providing industry customers with new development momentum, as well as working with partners to build a mutually reinforcing ecosystem.
China Unicom’s brand slogan 5Gn brand• With the orientation of “Innovating and Sharing a Warm Smart Living”, 
the Company launched the brand revitalization project.
• The promotion of Smart Home products accelerated to advance, 
launching 
innovative products such as 5G messages, video ringback tones, and 
mobile phone butlers, to meet with people’s demand for high-quality life.
• Speed upgrade and tariff reduction continued to 
progress, with the 
average tariffs of enterprise broadband and Internet dedicated lines further 
reduced by more than 15%.
• The Company tackled major challenges brought by extreme cold weather  
and 
the pandemic, and served the network construction for the Winter Olympics 
with craftsmanship spirit to ensure that the network will be timely ready.
• Effectively responded to the heaviest flood since 1998, the Company 
maintained stable overall network operation and with zero casualties.
• Voluntary service activities were actively carried out, conducting external  
charity donations, and heartily returning to the society.• To develop ecologically innovative products, enriching the product 
matrix, 
and building an ecosystem of Smart Homes and digital entertainment 
homes.
• To build 
the overall goal of “1+N+1” service system and create high-
quality services.
• To accelerate the migration of existing users to use 5G packages through  
the promotion of a series of 5G services, bringing more benefits to users.
• To create a complete communication assurance system for the Winter 
Olympics, empowering the Smart Winter Olympics with 5G, and contributing to the  
implementation of the requirements of “simple, safe and exciting” games.
• To optimize the emergency response plan for communication assurance,  
carry 
out investigation of possible dangers in advance, and organize emergency 
drills.
• To actively participate in various charity activities and building a brand of  
volunteer services.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.34
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
34
In order to create a full-scenario, three-dimensional, high-speed Internet 
environment for customers, China Unicom pioneered the concept of three gigabits, 
cooperated with media such as CCTV, satellite TV and Internet content providers, and carried out activities on Weibo and Douyin with the topic of “Life Like This”. The Company launched the first mini game sticker project among operators in the 
industry — “I am the King of Three Gigabits” Douyin Challenge and won the 9th Social  
Marketing Golden Bee Award.In order to promote the popularization and development of table tennis during 
the pandemic, the “Ping Pong in WO” online challenge was held, and online series such as “Challenging the King” were launched. The cumulative number of participants  
reached 630,000, and the activity was viewed 210 million times. The Company was awarded the “Popular Online Sports and Cultural Activities” by the Beijing Olympic City Development Promotion Association.Preventing false publicity
The Company strictly abided by the Advertising Law and related laws and regulations, carefully sorted out the content of Internet service publicity, regulated the promotional language 
of package marketing activities, all to ensure that the publicity content is standardized and accurate. The Company continued to optimize the promotional language, truthfully informed users 
of the gifting conditions in the package, provided consumers with warnings of potential risks, and enhanced users’ understanding of the products and services.
•
 For the package tariffs and promotional activities, no unreasonable conditions are set to restrict customers from choosing packages. 
For instance, if gifting conditions are involved, 
reliable methods are adopted to remind customers to understand the relevant agreements.
• In the announcements of integrated package tariffs, individual businesses and products shall have corresponding standalone businesses and products on sale and publicized at the
 
same time.
• The language of the promotion packages and marketing activities shall be standardized and proper, and the content shall be accurate 
and consistent at the current time, with no 
one-sided exaggeration of selling points, nor confusion of tariff discounts or deliberate production of promotional content that attracts eyeballs and causes misunderstandings by customers.
National table tennis players were invited to help develop  
the first blind box of the national table tennis teamGigabit 5G, broadband and Wi-Fi added colors  
to the new ecology of 5Gn digital life
 Innovating Product Intelligent Experience
China Unicom insists that innovation is the driving force for high-quality development. Through product life cycle penetrating management, the Company established a priority promotion 
mechanism for its own products as well as a classification management mechanism for innovative products in consumer market, focusing on the area of consumption upgrades, to realize 
product innovation and providing users with a more intelligent life experience. The total number of users served by China Unicom reached 440 million, including 306 million mobile billing 
subscribers, 270 million 4G subscribers, and 86.1 million fixed-line broadband subscribers. The integrated user penetration rate reached 64%, up by 5 percentage points year on year.
Upgrading Smart Home Internet products
The Company continued to improve the “1+4+X” Smart Home product system, promoted the scale development of its core businesses such as “WO Family Video, WO Family 
Network Deployment, WO Family Fixed Call and WO Family Surveillance”, and launched innovative products such as 5G messages, video ringback tones, and mobile phones butlers, so 
as to continuously meet the users’ various home application needs such as “HD video, intelligent networking, security surveillance and AI Smart voice”. The Company also coordinated all parties in the value chain to promote the establishment and development of Smart Home product ecology, and providing users with smarter and warmer home services experience.
Creating high-traffic apps to enrich life services
Based on communication services, the Company gathered internal and external traffic, 
created a high traffic portal APP for comprehensive services on daily life, and built three ecosystems 
of Smart life, Smart communication and Smart entertainment, bringing in more convenience to the public. Through the reconstruction of the points operation model, the conversion from unilateral communication points exchange to a bilateral Internet-based point ecological model enabled the high-traffic APP to attract 92.159 million monthly active users, an increase of 26.9%, which is deeply favourited by customers.
Building industry-leading “cross-regional” capabilities
In order to meet the needs of the customers for services in 
different places due to migration, the Company provided a full range of 
cross-regional services for the first time in the industry relying on the 
intensive advantages of IT and launched a cross-regional integration product for real-time sharing of business volume for the first time. As of 
the end of December, the cumulative number of cross-regional services accepted nationwide reached nearly 10 million.
24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.35
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
35
Jiangsu Unicom interpreted Smart services with “professionalism, 
vitality, earnest, and caring”, realizing unified operation of all work orders in 
the province and comprehensively improvement in both hotline satisfaction and 
complaint satisfaction.WO Family Surveillance
• Used in security engineering platforms and comprehensive management platforms of local public security authorities in Hunan, Henan, Anhui and other regions.
• Used in centralized monitoring of pandemic areas and key populations in Chongqing, Heilongjiang, Beijing, Shandong and other regions.
• Used in kindergarten monitoring in Baoding, Hebei, and in nursing homes for caring for the elderly in Heilongjiang, Jilin and other regions.
 Continuing to Improve Customer Reputation
China Unicom carried out end-to-end customer experience management, established a Smart customer service system, built a service experience brand and strengthened closed-loop 
operations on all issues, to promote transparent consumption and achieve continuous improvement in service perception and levels.
More intimate customer experienceThe Company deeply integrated customer experience management into all aspects 
of production and operation, continuously optimized business rules and procedures, and 
established a product manager accountability system, to constantly improve product and service quality.
•
 An end-to-end, 
full-scenario and full-lifecycle real-time experience assessment 
system was established and to realize the assessment of service quality with the customers’ voice, using their voice to push forward the process reform and service transformation.
•
 An intelligent, intensive, one-stop Smart customer service system was created. 
Relying on all-Internet based and intelligent means, “full-scenario service map” was built to  
achieve 
the production and delivery capabilities of “online and offline synergy integration” 
of service touchpoints, and the intelligent hotline coverage reached 71%.
• Th
e Company promoted the reservation mechanism for broadband installation 
and relocation and repair services, and the reservation rate for installation and maintenance services reached over 75%.
•
 During the pandemic, the employees of customer service lines across the country  
assumed 
strong responsibilities and assured non-stop service on 7*24-hour basis for 
hotline services.
• The Company Won the 2020 (the 13th Annual) “Golden Tone Award” and the 
Big Data Application Award of China’s Best Customer Contact Center issued by the Best Customer Contact Center of China and the Excellent Customer Experience Selection Committee.
More convenient customer services
The Company conducts questionnaires periodically for users and frontline marketing staff to establish a product assessment system and a feedback assessment system for frontline 
staff, and to continuously improve service levels.
•
 Simple acceptance function of cBSS2.0 integrated services was optimized to shorten the waiting time of users; the “non-outlet auto-filling 
electronic form” was promoted, while it 
enhanced the handling on compliance of online channel business, and improving handling efficiency.
• Th
e innovatively piloted “electronic identity authentication” in 6 provinces has built the national one-point issuance, with capabilities enabling wide usage in online and offline 
channels and providing users with convenient services.
• Mobile/online outlet were opened up for users at abnormal status to use the mobile network and fixed-line network, as well as convenient 
payment for “green channel” without 
having to log-in, allowing “payment” to be more convenient.
•  The 
Company optimized the “loss reporting/unlinking” business management of the mobile network, strengthened the certification security of unlinking business, making loss 
reporting services more convenient, reducing the risk of customer property loss, and better protecting the rights and interests of customers.
More beneficial mobile number portabilityChina Unicom has always adhered to the original intention of mobile number portability to benefit the public. The Company comprehensively regulated mobile number portability and 
network transfer services, strictly abided by the “nine must not” and “five portability prohibitions”, continuously improved the customer experience of portability, striving to achieve stable 
service operations of mobile number portability, steadily declining customer complaints, increasing customer recognition, and improving service quality.
•
 The Company participated in standardization work such as the revision of the interaction specification for mobile number portability, 
and the research and formulation of technical 
standards for regulatory platforms.
• The training of front-line window service personnel continued to strengthen to ensure that the service delivers good attitude and 
professional answers, so as to provide customers 
with satisfactory mobile number portability services.
• Launching the remote mobile number portability service to allow customers to handle porting anytime and anywhere, customers can 
enjoy more than 20 types of remote services 
and remote integration products that share real-time business volume after porting, same as the existing customers.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.36
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
36
More reliable customer reputation
The Company has maintained close communication with customers, to comprehensively enhance customer service brand awareness, and deliver positive energy to customers.•
 Through mini video dissemination and live streaming interaction, customer service touchpoints were enriched. A total of 3,376 videos 
were produced and launched throughout the 
year. China Unicom’s customer services ranked No. 1 in scale among central state-owned enterprises in Douyin and Bilibili, and No. 1 in the industry in Kuaishou.
• In 2020, the overall trend 
of NPS customer satisfaction with word-of-mouth improved. The annual self-improvement of mobile network increased by 5.5 points, and broadband 
increased by 7.6 points. Among which, the mobile network increased significantly year-on-year, with a self-improvement increase of 9.5 points; the self-improvement of business NPS 
increased by 1.2 points, maintaining leading in the industry; the self-improvement of service NPS was on the rise, and increased by 15.3 points. The overall MIIT satisfaction increased to 81.32  
points, an increase of 0.21 points year-on-year, reflecting  the Company being the only operator among three that was improving.
Better service qualityChina Unicom has adhered to problem solving, and deepened the uni fied and standardized management of the entire process, omni-channel and all scenarios of customer complaints. 
The Company strengthened closed-loop operation of all problems, strengthened pre-authorization resolution and smooth complaint channels, while initiated complaint customers’ satisfaction 
follow-ups, realizing the normalized operation on problems on the employee side. The Company followed up and operated 83 clustering key problems throughout the year, and verified and 
solved 49 problems.
•
 In 2020, complaints with the MIIT dropped by 35.2%, reflecting the largest decline in the industry.
• Maintained smooth 10010 and other complaint channels, the channel resolution rate in the Company’s headquarters increased by 21.7pp, with satisfaction rate increased by 13.1pp.
More transparent standardized consumption
China Unicom has conscientiously implemented the “Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Protection of Consumer Rights an
d Interests” and other laws and regulations related 
to the protection of customer rights, strictly regulated billing and charging behaviors, to protect customers’ right-to-know on consumer services and strengthening the popularization of 
consumers’ knowledge of products and services.
• Organizing various provincial branch companies to sort out packages on sale and standardized the tariff list publicity, as well 
as set up display areas in service outlets, and mobile 
and online outlets.
• Form free template continued to optimize to ensure that the service content and time limit are clearly informed to customers and customers understood their consumption.
• Online and offline business outlets, traditional media, and new Internet media were combined to promote information about various products and services to consumers in a timely,
 
true, accurate and easy-to-understand manner.
• Violating marketing actions such as bundling sales and unauthorized modification of customer packages are strictly prohibited, and acts of confirming the opening, trial, modification  
and customization of services without the consent of customers are severely punished.
 Integrating Online and Offline Channels
China Unicom continued to promote the transformation of its channel model and improved its online and offline integrated operation capabilities through measures such as focusing on 
middle platform touchpoints, integrating online and offline services and cross-industry ecological cooperation, to create a smart, open and integrated channel ecosystem.
Accelerating the upgrade of online and offline integrated experience
With the intelligent means such as Big data, taking the agile supply chain as the 
assurance and relying on the Smart middle platforms, China Unicom strengthened the 
collaborative operation capabilities of its own channels and cooperation channels, online and offline channels, and continued to create digital OMO (online and offline integration) channel system.
•
 Taking the high-traffic portal APP as the starting point, China Unicom 
integrated 
internal and external resources, converged internal and external traffic, and 
realized online and offline resource sharing through cloud stores, live broadcast and 
scanning code calls, and promoted the digital operation of service outlets.
• China Unicom built online and offline integration capabilities of cloud stores, 
provided the capability to support red packet collection, online installment (for new users), 
one-click generation, terminal sales, in-store traffic attraction, mobile phone 
store and enterprise WeChat embedding, etc., and started the touchpoint cooperation with leading apps such as Alipay, Meituan and others, and a total of 13,000 cloud stores had been opened in 31 provinces across the country.
•
 China Unicom enhanced digital capabilities, optimized and adjusted the layout  
of 
physical channels, and integrated marketing tools. The first batch of pilot provinces 
have completed the collective replacement of marketing tools, and the proportion of digital customer acquisition increased from 38.2% to 52.1%.Promoting the upgrade of online Internet services
Following users’ demands, China Unicom accelerated the development 
of online channels, and provided users with a more convenient online service 
experience.
•
 China Unicom consolidated cooperation with leading Internet 
companies to expand cost-effective light touchpoints.
• China Unicom created a traffic attraction platform, and quickly 
expanded 
cooperation resources through measures such as product innovation, 
major touchpoint cooperation, channel coordination, etc., to open up a new pattern of local traffic attraction. The Company also created differentiated privilege package products, combined live streaming of multi-platform major Internet KOLs, and strengthened the online collaboration among government, enterprises and entities, and the active touchpoints reached 1,800.
•
 China
 Unicom promoted the full digital operation of service outlets, and 
improved channel efficiency through live marketing activities. At the beginning 
of 2020, the fi rst phase of China Unicom’s live experience camp started, and the 
first batch of “Star Anchors” were spread across provinces to help pandemic prevention and control, precise poverty alleviation, industrial cooperation, etc., and to help promote new 5G terminals, new technologies, new applications and new rights. The total number of live streaming events reached 22,000.
In order to meet the individual needs of customers for privilege products, China Unicom’s provincial branch companies teamed up with partners to deeply create regionally 
differentiated privilege package products, and launched Shanghai Overwatch, Guangdong Three Kingdoms, Money Saving, Beijing Tuanyou card and other 2B2C cross-industry cooperation projects.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.37
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
37
Tianjin Unicom utilized high traffic APP intelligent methods to realize applications such as intelligent early warning and appointment 
calling in service outlets, bringing along digital service experience for customers.
“Star Anchors” matches held by Gansu Unicom
Upgrading the efficiency of self-operated service outlets
From the perspective of customers, China Unicom promoted the digital transformation of service outlets and comprehensively improved the 
operational efficiency of service outlets, to provide customers with a more intimate service experience.
• In order to fully protect consumers’ right to know, a white paper for products on sale was produced, and an online publicity column was used to display relevant
 
information such as package tariffs, service contents, time periods, promotions of products on sale, and etc.
• Small class 
activities on topics such as 5G knowledge and smartphone science popularization have been regularly organized, for customers to experience 
products on site and popularizing industry knowledge.
• Focusing on the four major scenarios of rural areas, campuses, communities and business circles, the cross-industry light touchpoints 
have been iteratively 
expanded and a micro-ecological circle has been created, and more than 20,000 micro-ecological circles have been built.
 Deepening the Promotion of Speed Upgrade and Tariff Reduction
China Unicom conscientiously implemented the national speed upgrade and tariff reduction work deployment, and established a special leading 
team to further reduce the unit price of mobile data traffic by increasing package resources, reducing off-package unit prices and launching preferential 
packages. Mainly focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises and manufacturing companies that were greatly affected by the pandemic, the Company promoted the reduction of production and operation costs of enterprises by taking speed upgrade and benefiting business, as well as combined discounts, as the main measures, and thus the average tariffs of broadband and Internet dedicated lines for corporate customers were reduced by more than 15%. The Company further met consumer demands, accelerated the pace of high-quality development, and promoted the development of the digital economy and the upgrading of information consumption.
 Action to Caring for the Disabled and Helping the Elderly
China Unicom sincerely cares about the underprivileged groups such as the disabled and the elderly. Through technological innovation, barrier-free 
environment construction, and tariff concessions, the Company meets with the needs of personalized services and providing undifferentiated services.
• The Company improved the construction of barrier-free environment, opened up green channels, created exclusive seats, providing 
priority 
services for the disabled groups in sight, hearing and speech as well as conveniency for customers who bring guide dogs into service outlets.
Speed upgrade:
Smoother  gigabit 5G for consumers’ 
convenient
The average download speed of fixed-line 
broadband increased by about 8 times
Over 380,000  5G base stations were built
“Three Gigabit Era” at your fingertipTariff reduction:
More substantial benefits  for consumers’ 
affordable use
The average tariffs of mobile data traffic dropped by 
more than 95% in five years
Tariff of broadband for corporate customers dropped by over 
15% in 2020
1.947  million registered households in poverty were 
benefitedServices:
More intimate  innovative services for 
consumers’ enjoyment
Overall satisfaction rate improved 
throughout the year
Warmly launched cross-region 
services  and cross-region products
Leverage informatization to build a platform 
for benefiting business
24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.38
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
38
China Unicom participated in the 15th China Information Accessibility Forum as the 
only representative in the telecommunications industry• For different underprivileged groups, the Company provided services such 
as preferential tariffs, expert services and exclusive service facilities.
• In order to promote the barrier-free communication of information for the 
hearing impaired, and actively advance the innovation of information communication 
and AI technology, the Company launched the Hearing King Card for 20 million h
earing impaired people across the country, and it was awarded the “Top Ten 
Excellent Cases of Information Accessibility in 2020” by the China Disabled Persons’ Federation.
•
 The Company provided caring cards for the elderly, increased the functions  
of 
timed voice calls, fraudulent call interception, parental activity range inquiry, and 
etc., to improve the life safety of the elderly. The Company also organized regular small classes to help the elderly using Smart phones.
Jiangsu Taizhou Unicom held an audition with the theme of “Technology allows love to speak and to listen to the voice of the world” to share with the hearing impaired the 
first domestic barrier-free communication product, including the AI technology innovation results that lasted more than 500 days, and with 100 upgrade iterations, 30,000 internal tests and 60,000 training sessions. A total of more than 330 hearing impaired individuals was invited to participate in the events and experienced the surprises brought to them by technological innovations.
 Serving the Winter Olympics with craftsmanship spirit
As the sole official telecommunication service partner for the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and the Paralympic Winter Games, China Unicom has adhered to the concept 
of “hosting a green, shared, open and clean Olympics” as its fundamental principles, and conscientiously implemented the “simple, safe and exciting” requirements for hosting the games, and provided the wisdom of interconnection for the innovation of the Olympic games with its craftsmanship spirit as a central state-owned enterprise centering on the strategy of “Smart Winter Olympics”.
 Strengthening responsibilities and demonstrating responsibilities
China Unicom thoroughly implemented the relevant requirements of the Beijing Winter Olympics Organizing Committee, and strengthened its responsibilities, to ensure that 
everything is in place. It is actively preparing for the Winter Olympics and making positive contributions to the success of a wonderful, extraordinary and outstanding Olympic Games.
• Actively promoting the collaboration between Beijing and Hebei and building a premium network for the Winter Olympics. The Company 
fully implemented the 
communication service requirements of the Beijing Winter Olympics Organizing Committee, and planned in accordance with the core concept of one network in Beijing and Zhangjiakou for the 2 cities and 3 regions of matches, to ensure that the communication service standards in the Winter Olympics are consistent, playing a leading role in the comprehensive implementation of the coordinated development strategy of Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei.
•
 Building the network with craftsmanship spirit to ensure that the network is ready in time. The Company overcame major challenges 
caused by extreme cold and the 
pandemic, achieved uninterrupted work, undiminished intensity and unreduced standards and advanced quality and quantity as planned in the construction process through strict implementation of prevention and control measures, innovating working methods and overcoming various challenges.
•
 Carefully designing the assurance system to ensure that that it is foolproof in the events. The Company standardized the communication 
assurance process, unified the 
assurance standards and formed a preliminary assurance capability. It also arranged the match-time operation and assurance team on duty in a focused, planned and batched manner to ensure the safe, reliable, stable and orderly operation of the network during match-time.
 Empowering the Smart Winter Olympics with 5G
As an “innovative leader in the 5G era,” China Unicom has empowered the 
Smart Winter Olympics with innovative applications in the fields of 5G technology, 
cloud broadcasting and data sharing, assisting a technological Winter Olympics to demonstrate the strong technological strength of China.
•
 The Company firstly released the core objectives of the “Smart Winter 
Olympics” with 5G technology as the center, and becoming the strategic leader of the “Smart Winter Olympics”.
•
 An innovation system for ten major application services in three scenarios  
of 
“watching, participating and hosting” has been created to fully empower the 
Beijing Winter Olympics.
• As one of the key projects of the Technological Winter Olympics 
in 
Beijing, China Unicom took the lead to establish an international cloud 
broadcasting company, which would provide coordinated, convenient and flexible 
event broadcasting technical services covering multiple locations around the world, and effectively enhances the edges of Beijing as a technology innovation center, as well as the development of digital industry, thus contributing to the nation’s  empowerment of digital economy development.
Empowering the Smart Winter Olympics with China Unicom 5G24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.39
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
39
• The launch of the Smart IP “Little Dream” marks that China Unicom’s “Smart Winter 
Olympics” strategy has entered into a new stage. It will lead the public to experience ice and snow  
sports and feel the charm of the Smart Winter Olympics.
• “On
e in 300 million” communication project of the Winter Olympics won the 9th ADMEN 
International Award.
• Together with UN-Habitat and the Beijing Winter Olympics Organizing Committee, the 
Company organized a series of “Winter Dream Ambassador” activities, with the theme of “Creating  
Wisdom 
to Build Green Winter Olympics” in 2020. Through the concept of collecting sustainable 
development in these activities, the Company leveraged 5G technology to provide solutions and 
creative designs for barrier-free living facilities, Smart waste sorting, Smart green travel, and etc. 29 outstanding works were selected to be included in the United Nations “2020 Smart Winter Olympics and Sustainability Development Report”.
•
 China Unicom took advantages of its nationwide offline service outlets and convenient 
mobile phone service 
outlets to participate in the Winter Olympics franchise plan. The Company 
also leveraged its technical advantages of 5G, Internet of Things, Big data, AI and others, as well as combining the characteristics of young generation’s consumption, to innovatively develop the Winter Olympics Smart gashapon machine and to sell licensed products, aiming to help organize the Winter Olympics and spreading the Olympic culture.On 8 August 2020, China Unicom and Sinopec jointly 
became the rotating chairman unit of the 3rd Partner Club of 
Winter Olympic Games. The two parties will work closely together to actively promote in-depth cooperation in 5G+clean energy, Smart gas stations, joint marketing of the Winter Olympics and promotion of ice and snow sports.
 Spreading the Olympic cultural spirit
In order to promote the Olympic spirit, spread the Olympic culture and help with the promotion of the Winter Olympics, the Company has organized 
various publicity activities to introduce the progress of the Winter Olympics to all sectors of the society, popularized the knowledge of the Winter 
Olympics, and mobilized the public to pay attention, support, and participate in the Winter Olympics.
Smart IP “Little Dream”
 OVERCOMING ADVERSITY AND MOVING FORWARD SMOOTHLY
China Unicom always puts the safety of people’s lives in the first place, devotes itself to emergency rescue and disaster relief, and provides 
communications assurance for major events, demonstrating China Unicom’s strength.
 Dedicating to Flood Prevention and Disaster Relief
Establishing a sound flood control assurance system
In response to flooding disasters, China Unicom has conducted early deployment, unified dispatch and detailed implementation of flood control 
requirements, and various flood control work was carried out in an orderly manner. The Company carries out potential danger investigation in advance to 
identify and eliminate potential safety hazards, arranges a 24-hour standby professional repair team, and formulates mobile communication emergency plans to ensure the normal operation of emergency support.
Event Watching
Viewer-oriented watching service
Advanced and ultra-deﬁnition multimedia serviceGood on-site and family watching experience
Ultra HD live broadcast Smart customer services Smart dedicated lines Cloud broadcast service Smart media
Smart venues Full-featured command system 5G VR entertainment Smart medical Smart event watching Hosting services for venues and the organizing committeesFast and convenient venue service capabilitiesEvents and normalized Smart operation capabilitiesServices for participating athletes and broadcastersSmart information facility serviceMultifunctional information serviceEvent Hosting Event Participating24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.40
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
40
 Anti-freeze communication assurance
In 2020, the whole province of Guizhou suffered from extensive 
freezing, accompanied by icing of electric wires and roads, and some 
base stations and optical cables were damaged due to low temperature and power outages. Guizhou Unicom responded quickly, with the repair team members braved the ice and snow and carried the optical cables on their shoulders, not only to use both hands to de-ice, but also repaired lines with fusion splicers, actively carrying out network inspections and maintenance, and making every effort to allow users to enjoy a warm network despite cold wind. A total of 1,612 emergency repair personnel were dispatched, 421 emergency vehicles and 478 generators were used.
Frozen face and condensed ice beads on eyebrows cannot stop  
China Unicom’s anti-freeze communication assurance
 Well-assurance during major events
Adhering to the key promises of “careful, focused, trustworthy, superior and intelligent”, China Unicom coordinated communication assurance and 
pandemic prevention and control to ensure smooth communication at major meetings and events, contributing to “telling China’s story and spreading 
China’s voice” in complex situations. For these outstanding contributions, the Company was commended by the National People’s Congress (NPC), the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), the General Office of the State Council, the Ministry of Industry 
and Information Technology (MIIT) and the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC).
“Cloud Diplomacy” communication assurance
Under the background of the normalization of pandemic prevention and control, “cloud diplomacy” has become the main channel for central 
leaders to communicate with major leaders around the world and international organizations. In 2020, China Unicom provided communication assurance 
for 40 top-level “cloud diplomacy” activities, including the G20 summit, with an assurance period of around 350 hours. China Unicom’s communication assurance has been praised in multiple times by General Secretary Xi and the leaders of the SASAC.
Communication assurance for “Two Sessions”
In order to ensure smooth running for the “Two Sessions” during 
the pandemic prevention and control period, China Unicom innovated 
the service model of reinsurance, providing remote interviews for the Premier’s media conference, press conferences, CPPCC online video live  
room, NPC group video conference, and remote interviews in minister channel, etc., providing reliable new video services, large-scale on-site Internet speed-up services, network security protection and other measures to successfully complete the assurance task.
Communication assurance for “China International Fair for 
Trade in Services”
The Company provided reliable and safe global network support 
for China International Fair for Trade in Services, involving multiple assurances such as the video conference of the Service Trade Fair summit, the information service of the media center, the security of private network, the video transmission of CCTV, the mobile network service, and etc. A total of 1,812 personnel and 15 vehicles were dispatched in the event.
Making every effort to participate in communication assurance for flood prevention and protection
In 2020, the southern region, while at its flood season, experienced the heaviest flood situation since 1998, with some areas experienced floods, 
geological disasters, hailstorms, typhoons and other hazards. China Unicom put the safety of people’s lives in the first place and responded effectively 
without fear of hardships and dangers. During the flood period, the Company made every effort to ensure the communication safety of important 
departments such as the Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters, the overall network was operated smoothly, and there was zero casualties. 
China Unicom committed an aggregate of RMB108 million to disaster relief, and 191,000 times of emergency personnel were dispatched, 178,000 times of emergency equipment were used, and 790 million emergency SMSs were sent. The Company actively carried out post-disaster reconstruction work committing a total of RMB195 million.
 In-Depth Promotion for Community Public Welfare
China Unicom is a loyal practitioner of the core values of socialism. The Company has gathered various social and public welfare forces and has 
made positive contributions in the fields of culture and sports, education, medical care, environmental protection and public welfare, conveying warmth 
and care.191,000 times
emergency personnel were 
dispatchedRMB108  million
committed to disaster relief  in 202024071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.41
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
41
Donation projectsAmount donated 
RMB’000
Donate to designated poverty alleviation areas  
(poverty alleviation)133
Aid to border areas (aid to Tibet and Xinjiang) 52
Other donations (cultural and sports, education, medical and 
health, public welfare, environmental protection, etc.)6,189
Total 6,374 Carrying out external charity donations
The Company has established a sound charity donation 
management system, along with the principles of voluntariness, acting 
within its capacity, clear rights and obligations, and having integrity. The Company has actively assumed social responsibilities, and strives to give back to the society and promoting the sustainable development of public welfare.
 Actively Engaging in Charity and Voluntary Activities
Combining the voluntary spirit of “contribution, friendship, mutual assistance and progress” with corporate production and operation, as well 
as staff team building, China Unicom actively carried out voluntary service activities with rich content and diversified forms. The Company has made 
positive contributions in helping students and the needy, the civilized and environmental protection activities, and caring for the old and young, highlighting the image of the responsibility as a central state-owned enterprise and practicing the core values of socialism with actual actions.
China Unicom has built a “Unicom Charity” platform based on blockchain technology. Each donation has a “Unique Code of Unicom 
Charity Chain”, which reflects the funds are donated via the blockchain, it cannot be tampered with, and can be traced, to ensure openness, 
transparency and credibility. The “Unicom Public Welfare-Action to Realize Dreams by Points for Students” project won the Bronze Award in 
the Fifth China Youth Volunteer Service Project Competition.
Zhejiang Unicom conducted various heart-warming charity 
activities, in which, through the “warming hearts with clothes” fundraising activities, the Company donated winter clothes to children in Walong Village, Tibet, donated books to Tarji Primary School in Sandaohe Township, Huocheng County, Xinjiang, to realize the transfer of love and knowledge sharing, donated money to primary schools in economically weak areas, helping the development of education, and sent quilts to the elderly to convey caring.
Book donation public welfare activities
Hunan Unicom paid attention to the education of children in 
poverty. The Company has established small libraries for many poor villages in Loudi, Chenzhou and Xiangxi to transform the learning environment. The Company donated books, school supplies, and sporting goods to Dongjiu Village for many years. In 2020, the Company cooperated with Changsha Polaris & Dawn Education to organize the “Light Up Dreams — Journey to Changsha from Dongjiu Village”, and also organized the “Walk with WO Love” charity activity to care for resident children.”
Hunan Unicom’s “Walk with WO Love” charity activity to care for resident childrenJointly with Cihang Charity, Guangdong Huizhou Unicom has arranged more than 1,600 employees/times to participate in various public 
welfare activities, including the Cihang Family Visiting Day events for eight consecutive years.58,095
participation in volunteer service 
activities
Sichuan Mianyang Unicom jointly organized the “Unicom & Shantu Charity Live Broadcasting” event together with Mianyang Deaf 
Association and Sichuan Shantu Weike Technology Co., Ltd., to provide employment opportunities for disabled individuals.RMB6.374  million
55,006External donations  in 2020
registered volunteers24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.42
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
42
Digitally Improved Governance Efficiency with
Focus on Fundamentals
Persistence in compliant and lawful operations
Deepening corporate reformPromoting green low-carbon development24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.43
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
43
DIGITALLY IMPROVED GOVERNANCE EFFICIENCY WITH FOCUS ON 
FUNDAMENTALS
As a “pioneer” in the mixed-ownership reform of central state-owned enterprises, China Unicom undertook comprehensive digital transformation. Guided 
by the market-oriented allocation factors of production, the Company deeply reformed systems and mechanisms and accelerated the establishment of new 
mechanism that stimulates the vitality of micro entities to better adapt production relations to productivity changes. At the same time, the Company practiced green development philosophies by building green networks and promoting the green transformation of production and operation, leading to significant improvement in 
operational efficiency.
Measures adopted in 2020
• Carried out comprehensive digital transformation to further 
r
eform the operational systems in five areas, namely big marketing, 
government & enterprise business, networks, IT and technological innovation.
•
 RMB120 million 
of special funds were invested in the energy-
conservation upgrade of existing facilities.Actions to be taken in 2021
• To deepen operational system reform and widely promote 
director-based accountability system.
• To deepen the rule of law in corporate governance and enhance 
legal risk management and control with deep integration between legal 
c
ompliance and operational management as well as strengthened 
horizontal and vertical coordination.
• To conduct 
in-depth research on energy-conservation 
technologies, and apply mature energy-conservation technologies to appropriate machine rooms across the whole network.
 Persistence in compliant and lawful operations
China Unicom adheres to the philosophy of operating with integrity. It comprehensively strengthens compliance with laws and regulations, 
risk management and control, and anti-corruption and integrity governance, so as to strengthen the rule of law in corporate governance and ensure 
sustainable and healthy corporate development.
 Persevered in compliant operations
Compliant operations are an inherent requirement for the robust operation of companies. China Unicom further regulated policy management, 
enhanced the rule of law in governance, bolstered risk prevention and control, and continuously consolidated the foundation for high-quality corporate development.
Lawful operations
•
 China Unicom deepened the rule of law in corporate governance in pursuit of digital transformation and high-quality development. 
It enhanced 
legal risk management and control with deep integration between legal compliance and operational management as well as strengthened horizontal and 
vertical coordination.
• The Company 
carried out special inspection and remediation on company policies. 5,033 policies were optimised and levels were adjusted for 
1,825 items to solve problems in existing policies and regulations such as untimely “formulation, revision and abolishment”, “conflict and blind spots”, and low effectiveness and operability, etc.
•
 The
 Company organised a large-scale campaign called “Compliant Actions Proposal”. A total of 155 Compliant Actions Proposals were collected, 
which set out clear standards on employees’ compliance behaviour, resulting in favourable collaboration among number of departments.
• The Company actively explored the digital transformation for contract management. By connecting data and workflows and consolidating
 
responsibilities, the Company built an end-to-end closed-loop contract management system. Legal review rate of the Company’s economic contracts was 100%.
•
 The Company strengthened promotion of legal awareness. The Company published 147 articles about legal knowledge and cases on the Smart
 
Portal and the Law Popularization Zone of Follow Wo, organised special legal awareness promotion campaigns such as “4/15” and 4/26” and bolstered the promotion and education of the Civil Code. The Company established a Learning Zone for Legal Compliance on the Online College to share legal 
achievements, launched integrated “Five Micros” compliance activities in the WeChat public account “Grow Wo with Legal Compliance” and published an electronic magazine called Compliance Wo and You.
Risk prevention and control
China Unicom insists on the objectives of “strengthen internal control, prevent risk and promote compliance”. It improved the management system 
and the environment of internal control, enhanced supervision and assessment, and strengthened closed-loop internal control management. By doing so, 
it continuously improved its capability of risk prevention and control, and effectively prevented and mitigated major risks.
•
 China Unicom insisted on “reviewing every matter that should be reviewed and strictly handling every matter under review”, innovated 
in the 
audit mechanism, improved the accuracy of risk positioning, and conducted audit supervision, problem remediation and accountability actions.
• The Company strictly investigated the responsibilities for non-compliant operations and investments. In 2020, a total of 116 problem clues were
 
identified. RMB24.88 million of losses were recovered in the year, and RMB6.87 million of loss risks were reduced.
• A supervision team was established. Inspection and appraisal were integrated to centralise scattered supervision forces, diversify 
supervision 
content, and shift from post-event inspection to pre-emptive supervision and guidance.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.44
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
44
• China Unicom strengthened overseas risk management, established 108 risk 
catalogues, and arranged prevention and control of key risks such as the US operations,  
the COVID-19, network efficiency and credit risk control. 90% of the 115 historical risks  
were downgraded or delisted.Training in legal compliance
4,580 timesNumber of people trained in legal 
compliance
243,000
 Focused on combating corruption and promoting integrity
China Unicom solidified the overwhelming victory in the combat against corruption, advocated a culture of integrity governance, and created a 
clean and upright atmosphere. Following two consecutive years of decline in 2018 and 2019, the number of whistle-blowing cases across the whole 
company continued to drop by 16.3% year-on-year in 2020. The overwhelming victory in the combat against corruption was solidified and expanded. The Company saw significant improvement in its clean and upright political ecology.
•
 Anti-corruption responsibilities at different levels were further refined into 104 specific tasks in 17 aspects to guide employees at different levels
 
to understand and fulfil their responsibilities.
• The Company 
published the second volume of the Guidelines for the Prevention and Control of Integrity Risks, which added the prevention and 
control measures for 24 risks in information security and sub-division units, etc., resulting in a risk prevention and control system covering 65 integrity risks in eight key areas.
•
 The Company carried out in-depth warning education. It created a warning education video titled Always 
Developing the Working Style to put 
employees at all levels on alert, facilitating the improvement of working style. Aiming at themes such as pandemic prevention and control, formalism and bureaucracy, etc., the Company educated its staff with cases around them, and actively promoted discipline inspection institutions at different levels to conduct in-depth education on integrity among junior staff through innovative methods such as sending disciplines to the front-line and original mini-CEO videos.
•
 The Company strengthened the penalties for non-compliant suppliers, established a disciplinary mechanism to address “option-style” corruption
 
within three years of resignation or retirement, and blacklisted the third batch of 52 non-compliant suppliers. Since 2017, a total of 232 suppliers have been banned.
•
 The Company vigorously remedied formalism and bureaucracy. It addressed 32 cases of non-compliant entertainment with corporate funds and
 
punished 58 people. Nine typical cases were selected and publicised across the whole Company.
• The Company investigated into the misappropriation of general expenses of base station ancillary facilities as well as the leasing fees, electricity
 
fees and agency maintenance fees in network maintenance since November 2015. It identified a total of 98 cases of suspected violations of disciplines 
and regulations, dereliction of duty, etc. involving an amount of RMB40,856,100.
• Whistle-blowers can report corruption cases through letters, telephone calls, SMS and visits. The Company protects the rights and 
interests of 
whistle-blowers in accordance with the law, and keeps confidential the reported matters, handling status and information related to the whistle-blowers.
 Deepening corporate reform
As a central state-owned enterprise undertaking the major mission to build new digital infrastructure, China Unicom took the initiative to embark on 
comprehensive digital transformation, made systematic and coordinated efforts to reform operational systems on all fronts, deepened the implementation of market-oriented mechanism, and enhanced the coordination and integration of resources factors to develop itself into a modern enterprise full of 
vigour and vitality, and steadily achieve long-term and high-quality development.
Big marketing Network Technological innovation
‧　Online and offline integration
‧　Standardization of product planning 
   and release
‧　Integration of service and marketing
‧　Integration of new and existing businesses
‧　Integration of marketing and delivery
‧　Business and IT collaboration
‧　Business and network collaboration‧　 Network and business collaboration
‧　 CT/IT integration
‧　 Personnel transformation and reuse‧　Coordinated resource allocation 
   and centralised operation
‧　Integrated cloud and network
‧　Integration of planning, construction,  
   maintenance and operation
‧　Building network product capability
‧　 Integration, delivery and 
   operation
‧　 Business and IT collaboration‧　Coordination and integration of 
   product capability
‧　Coordination and allocation of 
   marketing resources
‧　IT and business collaboration
‧　IT and network collaboration‧　Unified capability base
‧　Centralised platform resources
‧　Data value of centralised 
   operations
‧　 Collaboration 
   empowered by R&D‧　Coordinated allocation 
   of R&D resourcesFocusing on system integration, collaboration and 
efficiency, designing and pushing forward in a systematic manner
Government and 
enterprise business group IT
By furthering the sub-division reform, thoroughly apply the market-oriented factor allocation model
Maximise the efficiency of people-oriented labour factor input allocationRealise digital and efficient operation by means of process restructuring and optimisation based on the adjustment of the operational structure and systemsPinpointing 
problemsClear positioning Clear objectivesEnhancement 
of capabilitiesImprovement 
of the mechanismImplementationReform of 
operational 
structureOperational structure and systems
Coordination Synergy System
Promote a flat work mechanism with short processes and wide levels
Push forward anti-bureaucracy, de-administration and
de-hierarchisation
Reform blueprint of China Unicom’s comprehensive digital transformation24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.45
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
45
 Promoted reform of operational systems
Taking into account the new requirements on resources and factors allocation brought by comprehensive digital transformation, in order to 
address deep-rooted problems that restricted development, such as insufficient coordination, inadequate synergy, scattered resources, weak product 
competitiveness and capability of technological innovation, i nflexible market-oriented mechanism and elongated procedures, etc., China Unicom tackled 
the problems scientifically, sought changes on its own initiative and deepened the reform of five operational systems namely big marketing, governments 
& enterprises business, networks, IT and technological innovation, further developing its advantages and core capabilities. The Company optimised, created and reconstructed value creation systems for business, products, services, operations and management, adjusted the factor allocation methods and operating models, stimulating organisational vitality and improving operational efficiency. The coordination, synergy and empowerment of each 
professional function were significantly enhanced.
 Strengthened process reconstruction and optimisation
Focusing on value creation and adhering to the principle of “giving priority to customer experience, business operations and frontline needs”, 
the Company transformed the traditional procedures that centred on management control and were inefficient and costly to customer-centric digital 
procedures with high efficiency and low costs in an effort to build a procedure-based organisation. It developed a six-level procedure framework, 
specified process catalogues and lists, and achieved visible, manageable and controllable procedures based on a procedure management platform. At the same time, it drove each professional functions to concurrently improve policies, adjust organisational responsibilities and restructure procedures with bold innovation to promote the Company’s transformation into a digital, intelligent and ecological platform-based enterprise.
 Focused on three-system reform
The Company continuously deepened the three-system reform. With solid efforts made to the promotion and demotion of officers, engagement 
and dismissal of employees, and raise and reduction of income, it established an effective core driving mechanism for personnel appointment, training, appraisal, performance, promotion and withdrawal. The Company selected outstanding members to form a strong leadership, and adopted a human resource mechanism which promotes capable persons, demotes incapable ones and dismisses failing ones. It bolstered the linkage between the total compensation of professional functions and the key financial indicators, unlocked two batches of restricted shares, implemented a mechanism for 
sharing of incremental revenue, and promoted employee stock ownership for its mixed-ownership reform subsidiaries. It acquired high-end talents in the market on a regular basis, and built a four-level talent team of 18,000 persons.
 Developed a mechanism of “flat management, short processes and wide levels”
In order to solidly deepen the comprehensive digital transformation, the Company focused on key issues such as “excessive management levels, 
long work flows, inefficient coordination and unstable operations” and established a mechanism featuring “flat management, short processes and 
wide levels” to accelerate the reform of internal operational management and support mechanism. The Company pushed forward anti-bureaucracy, de-administration and de-hierarchisation, further flattened management level, established a short-process working mechanism and a system for authorization and responsibility allocation, and promoted an accountability system for directors under the supervision of respective department heads.
By doing so, the Company saw significant improvement in the market awareness, efficiency  
awareness and service awareness of units and staff at different levels. Internal transaction cost was reduced significantly, and operational management became more efficient.
The Company promoted a director-based accountability system focused on management affairs. Directors changed from “judges” into 
“leaders”. Directors do not have corresponding internal institutions so as to break the barrier between departments. Direct reporting and coordination breaks the traditional habit of relaying messages tier by tier. The post grades and ranks were separated, and dynamic adjustment and withdrawal were carried out. With the director-based accountability system, the Company reduced its management levels, shortened work flows, and achieved flexible team allocation, rapid and agile response, clear responsibilities and powers, smooth procedures, data and information 
sharing, and optimal coordination efficiency.
China Unicom Directors Appointment Ceremony
 Activa ted the vibrancy of sub-divided units
The sub-division reform for all production units is an important step to deeply advance the mixed-ownership reform and achieve comprehensive 
digital transformation. It bears the important mission of implementing the reform. Focusing on activating vibrancy, improving capabilities and promoting development, and responding to the needs of internal and external customers, China Unicom firmly grasped the “systematic, malleable and synergistic” nature of reforms in the new era, and promoted the re-understanding, re-positioning and re-launching of the sub-division reform. The three professional functions, i.e., the marketing, government and enterprise business and network strongly built a comprehensive, collaborative and agile operation system for internal and external customers, and, with strong support from human resources, finance, and IT, provided a broad platform for those who “are willing to work hard and capable of making achievements”. As of December 2020, the number of sub-divided units in the whole Group reached 27,500, and a team of approximately 26,700 “mini CEOs” was cultivated. 210,000 employees have joined sub-divided units. Their salary growth was higher than their counterparts at the headquarters at all levels. Front-line employees were the first to obtain more sense of fulfilment.In 2020, 109  directors were appointed in 
the marketing and network functions at the 
Headquarters24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.46
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
46
Strengthening middle 
and back ofﬁcesEnergizing the 
front ofﬁce
Network operational structure and 
system reform
Fully empowering the front end of the market to 
improve quality and efﬁciency
Product transformation
Channel transformationEnhancing core 
competencies with
Agile market responseOperational 
structure and 
system reform of 
government and 
enterprise 
businessOperational 
structure and 
system 
reform of 
big marketingHeadquarters
Comprehensive 
digital 
transformation Municipal 
branches
Sub-divided 
units Activating the vibrancy of 
front-end production unitsProvincial 
branches 
and 
subsidiariesEnhancing the support 
mechanism for 
strategy implementation 
Sub-division 
reform for all 
production units
Increasing 
efﬁciency in 
the Four Teams
Creating a comprehensive, collaborative and agile operational system for internal and external customersUnleashing the vitality and 
responsibilities of operating entities at all levels
 Deepened the reform of special projects
Aiming to create truly independent market entities, the Company continued to promote the reform of its subsidiaries, deepened the mixed-ownership reform by introducing 
more private capital and continuously amplified the function of state-owned capital, so as to build stronger, better and more vibrant enterprises and better serve the national strategy.
• Further deepened the market-oriented reform of subsidiaries. In order to create truly independent market entities, China Unicom 
formulated plans to further deepen the 
market-oriented reform of subsidiaries, and transformed the Company’s management model for its subsidiaries. On the basis of reasonable targets and commitments and better 
corporate governance, the Company loosened its grip over and delegated more power to its subsidiaries, and encouraged them to focus on enhancing competitiveness in the market instead of relying on internal support.
•
 Substantial progress was made in the cooperation with private capital. Following a pilot run of social cooperation on municipal 
and prefectural level, China Unicom’s 
Yunnan branch, as the only provincial branch of a state-owned enterprise in the “Double Hundred Action”, introduced private capital and established Yunnan Unicom New Communications Co., Ltd. Over 90% of the branch’s staff joined the private operating company. It achieved a cumulative revenue growth of nearly RMB500 million since the reform took place, and a cumulative loss reduction of nearly RMB350 million. The model was rolled out in seven municipal and prefectural branches in Guangxi. As of December 2020, the growth rate of fundamental business revenue of Guangxi branches in the social cooperation reform region was 2.52% higher than the overall level of Guangxi, with year-on-year loss reduction of RMB131 million and year-on-year EBITDA improvement of RMB126 million.
•
 Substantial progress was made in the mixed-ownership reform of subsidiaries. After the introduction of strategic investors, China 
Unicom Smart Connection Technology 
established a scientific and standardised corporate governance structure, implemented a tenure system and contractual system for management, and implemented long-term 
incentive plans for employees, effectively maintaining and increasing the value of state-owned assets. It also cooperated with strategic investors and made rapid deployment in areas such as smart terminals related to the Internet of Vehicles. By doing so, China Unicom Smart Connection Technology rapidly improved its product capability, with its pre-installed market share exceeding 70%, business revenue growing robustly and operating profits increasing steadily.
 Promoting Green Low-carbon Development
With the belief that waters and mountains are invaluable assets, China Unicom strictly abides by the Environmental Protection Law of the People’s Republic of China, the 
Energy Conservation Law of the People’s Republic of China and other relevant laws and regulations and deeply implemented the sustainable development strategy. In adherence to the environmental protection philosophy of “harmonious co-existence of network and the environment”, the Company persistently promoted energy conservation and power consumption reduction, eliminated in efficient capacity, reduced network energy costs, and alleviated the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on the environment, thereby 
contributing to the prevention and control of pollution and bringing ecological benefits to the people.
 Enhanced green management
China Unicom established the Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Management Committee. In accordance with the principles of energy conservation and emission 
reduction, cost reduction and efficiency enhancement, focus on key areas and comprehensive promotion, and source control and exploitation of existing resources, the Company 
continued to implement the Special Plan for Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction for 2017–2020. Taking into account its actual circumstances, the Company orderly 
organised special planning for energy conservation and emission reduction, application and promotion of key technologies, pilot research and development of new technologies, promotion and implementation of energy conservation laws and regulations, and optimisation of energy conservation management measures. In 2020, China Unicom appropriated RMB120 million in special funding for equipment energy-conservation upgrade.
The Company proactively responded to the challenges posed by global climate change, and identified and prevented pollution risk factors of air, water, and soil pollution 
during its production and operation. The main source of water for the Company’s daily administration and production and operation was the central municipal water supply. There was no risk of water pollution. The Company strictly complied with the relevant requirements of the Water Law of the People’s Republic of China and the Law on the Prevention 
and Control of Water Pollution of the People’s Republic of China. The Company was committed to increasing the efficiency of water consumption. It promoted awareness in water 
conservation and conducted regular maintenance checks in each part of the water supply system. During the Reporting Period, there was no issue in sourcing water. At the same time, the Company effectively implemented energy-conservation and emission-reduction measures, and practised green network operation, striving to reduce carbon footprint.
 Deployed green network
Fully leveraging on technology innovations, China Unicom practised the philosophy of green development. In order to optimise total cost of ownership (TCO), the Company 
promoted green, low-carbon and energy-saving technologies.
• Improved data centre performance. The Company issued IDC 
Construction Guidelines and Data Centre Power Utilization Efficiency PUE Guidelines, clarified PUE targets, 
provided guidance on the application of energy-saving technologies related to air-conditioning and power supplies, and strived to improve IDC energy efficiency. Nine of the 
Company’s data centres were included in the Published List of National Green Data Centres.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.47
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
47
• Continuously streamlined networks. 22 sets of MGW were retired from 16 local networks of the core network, 502,000 lines were retired from the integrated access network PSTN,  
and 2.52 million lines were retired from the NGN; approximately 50,000 terminals of outdated MSTP/SDH equipment and 2,000 terminals of outdated WDM equipment were retired from the 
transmission network; 122 outdated equipment of the data network IP backbone network was retired. The Company continued retiring ageing infrastructure equipment, saving approximately RMB34.63 million in electricity cost for the year.
•
 Strengthened the management of electromagnetic radiation. During the construction of mobile communication base stations, China Unicom 
strengthened the management of 
electromagnetic radiation of the base stations to ensure that the electromagnetic radiation met the requirements of national standards. After construction was completed, base stations were tested for electromagnetic radiation, and the test results were publicly disclosed on the web for public scrutiny.
•
 Strengthened research on and utilisation of new energy. For base stations and equipment rooms, the 
Company conducted 
research on solar power supply for the communication network and conversion controller 
equipment, and carried out trials in six locations across the country. A 3.3kWp solar power generation system in 
a single base station could save approximately 4,253 kWh of electricity in a year, cutting down electricity bills by RMB0.25/kWh.Energy-saving technology coverage rate of base stations
59%Energy-saving technology coverage rate of core equipment rooms
87%
The self-developed intelligent dual-cycle multi-unit modular equipment room air-conditioning system made full use of natural cold sources, and combined mechanical 
refrigeration and “fluorine pumps”, improving energy efficiency ratio and reducing carbon emissions by means of modularization, centralization and miniaturization of outdoor units. The self-developed 5G BBU vertical installation frame allowed the air to flow in from the front of the equipment and out from the back, instead of the original arrangement of the air 
flowing from one side to the other, thus enabling the centralised placement of 5G BBU and the insulation of hot and cold aisles. According to third-party verification, the PUE could be  
reduced to satisfy the edge DC construction needs.
Employing Internet of Things and AI technology, the jointly developed 5G DC load intelligent shutdown equipment and self-developed software platform with proprietary 
intellectual property rights could intelligently shut down redundant equipment and reduce the energy consumption of main equipment. If a set of 5G system is shut down for eight hours a day, the energy consumption can be reduced by approximately 33%.
The above research and development results have obtained national new utility patents.
 Promoted green applications
Taking full advantage of 5G, Internet of Things, cloud computing, big data and other technologies, China Unicom created a comprehensive solution for a smart environmental protection 
system, and developed smart products such as ecological environmental protection and intelligent river chiefs and lake chiefs, thereby contributing to pollution prevention and control, energy 
conservation and emission reduction.
China Unicom’s Quanzhou branch proactively explored the development of 4G and 5G applications. It built a UAV automatic cruise system, and effectively solved “four types 
of unlawful acts” in river governance, namely river pollution, illegal closure, illegal occupation and illegal sand mining. The branch was deeply involved in the implementation of 
environmental protection applications, contributing to the effective implementation of the “River Chief System”.
UAV automatic river patrol system
UAV system x 1:  The UAV can 
perform different functions in 
river patrol when loaded with 
different equipment.Smart garage system x 1: It 
provides shelter and the 
environment for the take-off and 
landing of the drone, and 
automatically charges the drone.Flight control platform x 1: It 
feeds back real-time data of 
drones and automatic airports for 
human-computer interaction.
Category: Fishing
Location: Fuqiao Subdistrict (on the side of Jiangbin South Road, in front of Zhongle Fishing Place)Latitude and longitude: 118.55858, 24.93956Description of the situation: Fishing boat by the bank casting nets for ﬁshing
Category: Fishing and angling
Location: Jinpu Community, Fuqiao SubdistrictLatitude and longitude: 118.51644, 24.94123Description of the situation: Casting nets into the Nanqu River for ﬁshing
The composition of the UAV intelligent river patrol system Service desk video surveillance
 Deepened green operation
Adhering to the notion of green development, and in accordance with the requirements of the state’s Opinions on Accelerating the Establishment of the System of Green Production and  
Consumption Regulations and Policies , China Unicom continuously unleashed the value of factors, optimised resource allocation, built green business outlets, established a green supply chain 
system, deepened recycling and promoted green consumption and the green transformation of production and operation.
• Bui
lding a green distribution network. China Unicom promoted the construction of a digital operational system for business outlets so as to improve operational effic iency. It carried 
out trials of electronic form-free service outside business outlets, enhanced the compliance of service sign-ups in online channels, and implemented digitalised operation and paperless 
processing.
• Creating a green supply chain. China Unicom created a Group-wide supply chain system with “one system and one platform”, and implemented Internet-based operation throughout
 
the supply chain. The newly added function of audio and video conferencing enabled the electronic bidding platform to carry out “no meeting” bid evaluation during the epidemic. The Company encouraged bidders to choose energy-saving products with low energy consumption and high energy efficiency so as to minimize environmental pollution.
•
 Strengthening recycling. 
China Unicom established an internal bidding mechanism to auction idle materials based on market fair value. Through the clean-up and auction of idle 
materials, the Company revitalized and re-allocated a total of 45 batches of materials with a total worth of RMB12.33 million. It disposed of RMB733 million of waste materials by auction.
• Revitalizing assets. By broadening asset revitalization channels, upgrading revitalization platform functions, and strengthening 
post-
event evaluation, China Unicom completed 521 instances of inter-provincial revitalization of network assets and resources, revitalizing 19,200 items of assets worth RMB937 million in total and saving RMB134 million in depreciation costs. Its asset utilisation efficiency was further 
enhanced.
•
 Promoting green consumption. In order to revitalize the inventory of finished cards and reduce wastage, China Unicom developed the 
function 
of “converting finished cards to blank cards” to rewrite finished cards in the inventory, recycling IMSI resources and turning them to 
ordinary blank cards for reuse. In 2020, 800,000 finished cards were recycled, saving RMB600,000 in card production fees.Disposed of waste 
materials worth
RMB733 million24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.48
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
48
Digitally Ignited the Engine of Technological 
Innovation to Strengthen  Growth Momentum
Optimising Mechanism of Technological Innovation
Promoting Application of Innovative TechnologyEmpowering Digital Transformation of Industries24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.49
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
49
DIGITALLY IGNITED THE ENGINE OF TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION TO 
STRENGTHEN GROWTH MOMENTUM
Technology, a powerful tool for a nation, enables a country to become stronger, an enterprise to outperform peers and people to live a better 
life. As the main force in building a technology superpower, China Unicom takes the responsibility to ensure technology independence and self-
improvement. It seized the new opportunities for technological innovation brought by the digital economy, enhanced its own innovation capabilities, and nurtured a flourishing and synergetic innovation ecosystem. It accelerated the transformation of technological innovation achievements into actual productivity, and enriched and expanded new innovative technology products, assisting the government in efficient social governance and serving the digital transformation of numerous industries.
Measures adopted in 2020
• Optimised technological innovation system, increased 
research and development investment, strengthened incentives 
for technological innovation, and expanded cooperation among industries, universities and research institutions.
• Focused on research and innovative applications of core 
technologies such as 5G, cloud computing, Big Data, Internet of things, blockchain and AI.
• Enhanced proprietary product research and development 
capability to offer total solutions. Developed industry cooperation ecology to empower digitalisation of industries.Actions to be taken in 2021
• To actively strengthen ecological cooperation in 
technological innovation externally and comprehensively promote 
the integration of technological innovation into production internally.
• To focus on research on foundation technologies such 
as cloud computing, Big Data, Internet of things, AI, blockchain and forward-looking application scenarios. To strengthen early-stage research on next-generation network technologies such as computing power network, 6G and quantum communication, and application products such as industrial Internet.
• Focusing on key fields and industries, to build a “platform 
+application” product system with cloud-network collaboration, digital integration and open capability to provide richer integrated application products for the whole society
 OPTIMISING MECHANISM OF TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION
Robust system and mechanism of technological innovation is an important foundation for accelerating the development of technological innovation. 
China Unicom kept strengthening its innovation awareness, overcame the obstacles of systems and mechanisms, enhanced policy edges and stimulated 
the energy of innovative development to propel technological innovation and accelerate the digital transformation.
 Improved Technology Management
China Unicom continuously optimised its technological innovation system, strengthened research and development management, stepped up research 
and development investment, and adopted full-lifecycle management of technological achievements.
• Thoroughly implemented the requirements of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) on central state-owned 
enterprises to increase investment in technological innovation and enhanced the intensity of research and development investment. As at the end of 2020, technological innovation investment amounted to RMB12.28 billion, representing 4.5% of the total revenue.
• Optimised and restructured the technology committee of the head office and promoted the establishment of technology committees at subsidiary 
companies.
• Clarified the management standard, process and collection requirements of various research and development projects to realise 100% platform 
management.
• Actively developed technology R&D talent team and explored the acquisition of outstanding external technology R&D talents.
• Systematically carried out the registration, review and management of technological achievements nationwide and established a database of 
evaluation experts.
 Increased Innovation Incentives
The Company continuously improved the incentive system for technological innovation and increased the incentives for technological innovation. With the 
maximisation of interests as the goal, it formulated and published incentive policies for technological innovation, which were publicised as broadly as possible through 
meetings, production of H5 publicity materials, remote consultation, DingTalk and other multi-channel communication forms, so that the technological personnel of the Group can understand the policies and gain confidence. In 2020, the Group awarded technology innovation incentives of RMB45.09 million, double that of the 
prior year, greatly stimulating the vitality of the technology R&D personnel.
 Expanding R&D Cooperation
The Company actively expanded cooperation among industries, universities and research institutions. It established joint laboratories with colleges 
and universities, carried out research projects in the fields of Internet of vehicles, optical transmission and new network evolution with renowned 
universities such as Tsinghua University, Peking University and the Chinese University of Hong Kong as well as research projects in the fields of base 
station equipment and network system with high-tech companies such as Huawei and ZTE. In 2020, a total of 61 projects were under research and 49 projects were newly declared.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.50
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
50
 PROMOTING APPLICATION OF INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY
China Unicom played its role as an engine of technological innovation among central state-owned enterprises. It bravely acted as the “source” of 
original technologies and entered untapped technological fields. It accelerated to tap the potential of digital technology and promoted the security and 
stability of the supply chain.
 Developed New Communication Technology
Propelled 5G technology innovation
China Unicom adhered to Standalone (SA) as the ultimate 5G architecture and resolutely built a technologically leading 5G network. It actively 
propelled the evolution of 5G technology and deployed the first Standalone (SA) networks in the world. It cooperated with chip, terminal and equipment 
manufacturers to overcome challenges to drive the development of 5G value chain.
• Took the lead in completing three 3GPP standards including 2.1G 50MHz/40MHz large bandwidth. Secured the approval for the refarming of 2.1G 
frequency band as 5G spectrum, supporting world-leading 5G deployment in 2.1G frequency band.
• Spearheaded technical trials of millimetre wave network in the Winter Olympics use cases.• Spearheaded and completed tests to decouple 13 5G social cloud micro-sites from existing network 5GC NG interface.• Created a proprietary 5G intelligent energy-saving platform and 5G base station energy-consumption intelligent control system “integrating 
wireless technology and AI”.
• Carried out new technology trials, centralised procurement testing and research on key issues of commercial deployment, and completed the first  
large-scale commercial deployment and operation of 5GC.On 30 November 2020, China Unicom held the 2020 Technological Innovation Conference in Beijing, gathering experts and industrial 
innovation forces from multiple fields to learn from each other and promote the optimal allocation of technology R&D forces and resource 
sharing. At the meeting, China Unicom entered into cooperation agreements with Renmin University of China, Beijing University of Posts and 
Telecommunications, Beijing University of Science and Technology and the National Time Service Center of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, setting up joint laboratories in artificial intelligence and Big Data, intelligent open optical network, 5G metallurgical intelligent manufacturing, 
high-precision ground-based timing system, etc. It held the founding ceremony of “China Unicom Computing Power Network Industry Technology Alliance” with the representatives of the Chinese Academy of Information Technology, the Network Information Center of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tsinghua University and industry partners to jointly promote industry development.
China Unicom announced a 5G drone-carried terminal called “Rainbow 1” which was put into use in multiple drone projects, 
turning Anyang into China Unicom’s 5G ubiquitous low-altitude test base and the Civil Aviation Administration’s drone test base.
Propelled the application of quantum communication technology
• Actively carried out research on the application of new technologies such as quantum secure communication architecture, optical fibre 
transmission and application effect analysis, and implemented a number of applications such as quantum encrypted video conferencing systems on the 
Jingxiong International pre-commercial quantum encryption trunk line.
• Combined quantum encryption key services and blockchain technology to carry out in-depth research in the fields of digital identity and trusted 
terminals, and jointly promoted real-world applications in typical industry use cases.
Conducted 6G wireless technology pre-research
Completed the first domestic air-space-ground integrated business demonstration and verification, published several white papers on topics such 
as terahertz, blockchain, and air-space-ground integration, and successfully applied for multiple topics of the 6G national major project.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.51
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
51
 Built a Cloud-driven Business Model
Focusing on the new base, new cloud management and new PaaS capabilities and targeting at product capabilities and business scale 
enhancements, China Unicom vigorously enhanced the carrying capacity and research and development capabilities of the WO Cloud platform, 
constructed an integrated cloud product system, and achieved solid growth in innovative business.
Built a WO Cloud support system
The cloud support system adopted the microservice cloud-based architecture of “large middle platform + small front-end” to realise the decoupling 
between services and products. It had rich and flexible business arrangement capabilities, supporting rapid resource provisioning and full life cycle 
management. The four platforms of Yunjing, Yunce, Yunjing, and Yunchang support unified management of heterogeneous cloud pools and unified  
monitoring of resources across the entire network. 38 products have been launched so far.
Improved WO Cloud product systemThe new WO Cloud focused on building a new base, new PaaS, and new cloud management product system to enhance the core capabilities of WO 
Cloud products and achieve scale development.
In 2020, China Unicom held a WO Cloud new product launch 
ceremony titled “New WO Cloud, New Base, New Intelligence”, 
reaching out to more than 5 million people nationwide. It created a PR matrix with 9 self-owned social media accounts centred on Weibo and Weixin, and published a total of 2,173 posts, with a total of more than 480,000 views and more than 1.2 million fans. It published 267 articles with more than 300,000 views. It conducted online campaigns. For example, it held an online “Clouds Gathering and Unbounded Symbiosis” cloud market merchant acquisition conference, and created a “Cloud Market Festival”, which attracted more than 300 application providers and was watched 11,776 times. The influence of WO Cloud brand continued to expand.
 Strengthened Big Data Capabilities
China Unicom accelerated its digital transformation, consolidated its industry-leading data base, significantly improved its Big Data capabilities and 
formed an “accurate”, “fast”, “comprehensive”, “unified” and “connected” intelligent Big Data system to enable high-quality business development, 
striving to be a key player in digital China development. In 2020, the Company’s market share in Big Data business remained the highest in the industry.
• Enhanced data asset integration capability. China Unicom has established a hyperscale Big Data cluster governance and data governance system 
and developed PB-level technical data processing, real-time analysis and model service capabilities to achieve end-to-end full life cycle data security 
management capabilities. It processed over 200TB of incremental data and undertook over 100,000 processing tasks every day.
• Leveraging the advantages of centralised Big Data, China Unicom launched a user roaming location query API within 3 days to support “pandemic 
prevention and control travel history assistant” and “communication Big Data travel history card”. It processed a total of more than 755 million queries, serving 8.35 billion user trails across the network.
• Enriched product capabilities. Building on big data, artificial intelligence and blockchain 
technology and with the goal of serving the digital transformation of government and enterprise customers, China Unicom formed a product matrix covering data application services, data technology  
services, artificial intelligence and blockchain and focusing on key industries including government 
affairs, finance, cultural and tourism, transportation and others. There were 8 ten-million-class products.
• Consolidated proprietary research and development capabilities. China Unicom increased the  
proportion of proprietary research and development from nearly 0 to 70%, and achieved full autonomy  
in computing power allocation, data assets, data models, application development, automatic operation and maintenance and data security.in the telecommunications industry
in the 2020 China Big Data Enterprise RankingNo.1
China Unicom Yunnan branch fully leveraged the advantages 
of its Big Data capabilities, used demographics Big Data obtained 
from mobile phone signalling to support the natural resources and land planning of Yunnan Province, facilitating the comprehensive digitisation of land and space and the full coverage of human-land factors. It provided powerful support for the Yunnan provincial government’s policy-making in the “14th Five-Year Plan” of Digital Yunnan planning and development.
Population Big Data System for Land and Space Planning of  
Yunnan Provincial Department of Natural Resources24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.52
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
52 Enhanced the Value of IoT
In the era of intelligent connection of everything, China Unicom is committed to becoming a leader in “AIoT” 
empowering thousands of industries. It enhanced its core capabilities in platforms, networks, ecology, applications, 
etc., and offered integrated solutions and services including connectivity, applications, and terminals. It joined forces with upstream and downstream partners in the industry chain to jointly develop a new 5G industry ecology and comprehensively empower the digital transformation and upgrade of the industry.China Unicom signed cooperation agreements with four Big Data ecosystem partners including Duxiaoman Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 
and Hangzhou DT Dream Technology Co., Ltd. to jointly explore product development and application services in financial risk control modeling, etc.
among the world’s top 500 
IoT enterprises in 2020Ranked 7th
China Unicom Shandong branch made use of NB-IoT and cloud 
platform technologies to develop and deploy a smart energy Big Data 
service system and intelligent high-precision pipe network monitoring product. It enabled comprehensive online monitoring of heating pipe networks and provided data support for smart heating to achieve low-carbon energy conservation objectives. Among the 7 power supply stations and 1,500 units in the initial pilot programme, more than RMB1.9 million was saved in the heating season of 2019–2020 compared with the previous heating season, and the overall user complaint rate was reduced by 25%.
In June 2020, China Unicom held the “Enabling New 
Infrastructure for the New Future of IoT — 5G + AIoT Summit 
for Boosting Industry Digital Transformation, Innovation and Development”. In cooperation with more than a dozen industry partners such as Unisoc (Shanghai) and MeiG Smart, it published the first Cat.1 white paper in the IoT industry to promote the development of the IoT industry. 
Built industry ecosystem
The Company developed its IoT industry alliance with an open sharing philosophy. It added 91 new partners in the year from key industries such 
as consumer electronics, smart healthcare, and smart city, thereby broadly aggregating industry ecological resources to accelerate the development of 
an intelligent IoT ecosystem.Strengthened network construction
• Built a 5G IoT core private network 
classified by people and things, with the 
ability to support 5G IoT business.
• Diverted and balanced traffic 
according to IoT zones to improve network resource utilisation and enhance user perception.
• Fully supported new functions such 
as VoLTE, directional voice, and directional text messages.
Built platform capabilities
• The Company’s self-developed 
connection management platform supported 
innovative services such as 5G, eSIM, public Internet of Things, and MVNO and carried more than 80 million connections.
• The Company’s self-developing device 
management platform supported 32 standard object models and 88 API interfaces such as smart street light, hydrological monitoring, industrial inverters and edge gateways in the field of smart city and industrial Internet, 
underpinning the rapid development of SaaS applications in the upper stack.Improved product system
Released more than 20  
standardised non-access IoT products 
around smart city, industrial Internet, 5G industry terminals, smart energy and other fields. Among them, we developed  
7 proprietary products including Yanfei Cat.1 module and Yanfei smoke sensor. The Industrial Internet AIoT platform was rated as the only dual cross-level industrial Internet platform in Jiangsu Province in 2020.
 Innovated on Blockchain Application
China Unicom regards blockchain as an important field for the breakthrough of proprietary innovation of core technology. It accelerated the integration 
between blockchain technology and innovative development of industry, and provided credible infrastructure for the development of the digital economy in the 5G era.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.53
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
53
China Unicom Guangzhou branch and Guangzhou Judicial 
Bureau jointly created smart judicial applications such as 
a blockchain judicial evidence platform and social security management to make judicial procedures such as collection and retrieval of evidence immutable and irrefutable, which reduced the difficulty of electronic evidence fixation and authentication and 
improved judicial efficiency and judicial service quality effectively. 
Currently, the Guangzhou “Public Law Chain” has been operating stably for nearly one year, with a block height of 69,074 and a total of  
120,198 records.
Press conference for the launch of “Guangzhou Public Law Chain”Built platform capabilities
The Company announced the “China Unicom Chain”, a unified carrying platform for blockchain products and capabilities. It developed a blockchain 
capability base with “1” BaaS platform and “8” generic service modules and created “N” innovative applications powered by blockchains to provide 
integrated infrastructure services of cloud, network and chain for the digital transformation of government and enterprise customers.
Continued to empower the nation
• Developed the country’s first blockchain-based enterprise work resumption reporting platform, which was tested in 15 provinces and cities 
across the country and served more than 300 companies.
• Blockchain-based test instruments and data management system were deployed and used in scale at China Unicom’s Hebei branch, with more 
than 100 instruments and 200 users registered in the chain.
• The Company was the first in the industry to develop a spectrum blockchain test system and launch a pilot run on the live network. It won the 
“ICT China 2020 Best Excellent Solution Award”.
 Accelerated AI Innovation and Empowerment
China Unicom is committed to building intelligent infrastructure and product services and driving the comprehensive upgrade and restructuring of 
networks and products through artificial intelligence technology.
Promoted intelligent network transformation
• Developed network AI test beds and MR intelligent construction and maintenance assistant systems, etc., and defined measurable classification 
of autonomous driving network.
• Constructed a prototype of the digital twin model of the broadband access network to achieve an integrated and Internet-oriented operating model 
of access network planning, construction, maintenance and operation.
• Designed and developed a proprietary IP network routing simulation system and designed an architecture prototype of the network digital twin 
system.
• Built a digital twin system in the National New District (Xiong’an).• Held 2020AIIA Cup Artificial Intelligence and 5G Network Application Competition and ITU AI/ML in 5G Challenge and Network AI Forum.
Offered AI capabilities and applications
• Opened up the Company’s capabilities in intelligent network, perception analysis, AI algorithm model, application services, etc. to reshape the 
smart city operating model.
• Created applications such as new effective urban governance, new convenient public services, new industry upgrade, and new livable and green 
ecology to reshape the experience of citizens.
 Actively Developed Standards and Regulations
China Unicom actively participates in international and domestic industry standard organisations and standard formulation, covering 5G, cloud 
computing, Big Data, IoT, artificial intelligence, edge computing, blockchain, information security, etc. The Company successfully promoted the 
standardisation of its cutting-edge research and development results, enhancing its influence in the industry and bargaining power in the international 
cyberspace.
• China Unicom had severed for more than 100 positions in ITU-T, 3GPP, GSMA, Linux Foundation, OpenStack and other major international standards 
organisations and open sources communities, including more than 20 key management positions. It participated in the China Communications Standards Association, a domestic communications industry standardisation organisation, and became a major member unit.
• Currently, China Unicom leads and participates in nearly 1,000 
ongoing research projects in CCSA. It led the establishment of 37 new international standards and the release of 23 international standards. The YIG project incubated by WO Cloud’s production system was accepted as a core project by the Linux SODA Foundation, achieving breakthrough in projects led  
by the Company in the international open source communities.
• China Unicom-led project “5G Co-build and Co-share Key 
Technology Research and Industrial Application” won the first prize of China 
Institute of Communications.Responsibility performance indicators 2020
International standard documents (article) 467
Industry standards (item) 295
Number of patents applied (item) 1,734
Number of patents granted (item) 51824071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.54
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
54 EMPOWERING DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OF INDUSTRIES
China Unicom actively integrated modern digital technology into 
various industries and empowered the digital upgrade of industries with 
technological innovation. It continued to promote advanced industry foundation and modernisation of the value chain, and pivoted on innovation to promote high-quality development.
 Deployment in Smart City
With an objective to improve the quality and efficiency of cities, 
China Unicom empowered three major areas, namely urban governance, social governance and economic governance, by building a smart data brain engine. Aiming to address people’s livelihood issues and echo the national strategy to expand domestic demand, the Company empowered the modernisation of urban governance to enhance the level of intelligent and refined governance.
Focusing on the core function of “comprehensive application of government information services and information and data”, China 
Unicom Liaoning branch led the development and maintenance of the “Liaoning Province E-government Cloud” project. Currently, the project 
is operating 768 non-confidential government information systems for 78 commissions, offices, departments and bureaux, and utilises 46,000 VCPU cores, 153T memory and 6PB storage to provide intellectual support and operational assurance for “Building a Digital Liaoning and Developing a Digital Government”.China Unicom Fujian branch self-developed the “Diversified 
Solution Platform for Conflicts and Disputes-Huihejie”, which 
rationally allocated various social dispute resolution resources and effectively improved the social governance system of the grassroots and modernised governance capabilities with the new model of “Internet + diversified governance”. In 2020, the Diversified Solution Platform for Conflicts and Disputes was put into use successively in 
Changle District Political and Legal Committee, Dongjiekou Police Station, Putian Municipal Bureau of Justice and other places. The number of users exceeded 10,000, and more than 1,000 conflicts  
and disputes were resolved, effectively ensuring social harmony and stability. 
The first “Diversified Solution Platform for Conflicts and  
Disputes-Huihejie” in Fujian Province was officially unveiled
China Unicom Chizhou branch fully implemented the strategy 
of “Embracing the Government”. It signed strategic cooperation 
agreements with all county and district governments within the city, put itself in the government’s shoes and catered to its needs. Focusing on “platform + application + operation” projects, the branch solved the government’s pain points through information technology and helped to modernise the governance capabilities of governments at all levels. It became the vanguard of the development of Chizhou’s digital government.
Launching Ceremony of Chizhou Smart CPPCC Platform
Screenshot of China Unicom’s Smart Data Brain Engine
 Developed Digital Government
China Unicom leveraged new technologies such as 5G and AI to build a digital government affairs platform so as to improve the government’s 
operating efficiency and decision-making capabilities, enhance the perception of citizens and enterprises and help the development of digital government.
 Pushed forward Smart Ecology
With the goal of “green and low-carbon development fostering environmental quality improvement”, China Unicom leverages its own informatised, 
digital, and intelligent means to provide three major categories of product solutions, namely smart ecology, smart housing and construction, and smart 
water conservancy. It helps “China’s ecological environment fundamentally improve” in 2035 and achieve the prospect of “green water and green mountains”.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.55
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
55
 Built Smart Factories
Based on 5G+ Industrial Edge Cloud + AI, China Unicom launched the “5G+ Industrial Internet Action Plan” and the “5G+ Industrial Internet 
Application Scenario Joint Innovation Plan” to create “fully 5G-connected factories” for large enterprises. For small and medium-sized manufacturing 
enterprises, with the mission of enabling the digital transformation of industrial clusters and enterprises, the Company built the “Yundee Industrial Internet Platform” to promote the upgrade of China’s “intelligent manufacturing”.
China Unicom Xuzhou branch and Xugong Group built the domestic construction machinery industry’s first smart park private 5G SA 
network combining end-to-end network slicing and edge computing. It had full-chain connectivity from signal transmission, control, design to production and circulation, and integrated the application needs of enterprises along the full value chain from 5G+ smart research and development, 5G+ smart manufacturing to 5G+ marketing services, 5G+ smart parks and 5G+ product construction. All factors including people, vehicles, machinery and equipment, production materials and upstream and downstream resources in the industrial chain were connected, facilitating Xugong Group’s smart transformation.
China Unicom Jiangxi branch built a 5G operating room + VR remote teaching system for the Affiliated Hospital of Jiangxi University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine to enable various services such as surgical demonstration, surgical guidance, surgical observation and medical education, etc., and improve the hospital’s surgical demonstration and its management of medical education and training through real-time, two-way, medical-quality video.
Aiming to develop “intelligent tours of Hailing Island” and achieve “tourists experience freedom and government management services 
everywhere”, China Unicom Guangdong Yangjiang branch strived to build Hailing Island’s culture and tourism informatisation base, Big Data centre, comprehensive management platform, comprehensive marketing platform, comprehensive service platform, demonstration and guiding standards and comprehensive support system to promote the transformation and upgrade of Yangjiang’s tourism industry.
“Internet + Health Poverty Alleviation” remote consultation  
by China Unicom Henan branchRemote visit at ICU ward by China Unicom Fuzhou branch
Smart water comprehensive management service platform of Jia County Smart sand mining comprehensive supervision service platformChina Unicom Henan branch built a smart water comprehensive management service platform, a smart sand mining comprehensive 
supervision service platform and a smoke monitoring platform to help prevent and control pollution holistically.
 Innovated on Smart Medical Care
China Unicom actively explored the application of 5G in various scenarios such as smart hospitals, telemedicine, smart elderly care and consumer 
healthcare, etc. to improve medical service quality comprehensively and offer support to first aid, clinical diagnosis and treatment, medical education, 
graded diagnosis and treatment and hospital management, etc. facilitating the development of healthy China.
 Supported Smart Culture and Tourism
Echoing tourism informatisation policies and industry needs, China Unicom created a series of smart culture and tourism products covering cultural 
and tourism management departments, tourist attractions, museums, etc. It served 17 provincial cultural and tourism departments, 116 municipal and county cultural and tourism bureaux and more than 100 scenic spots and museums, and developed smart tourism platforms for 34 total tourism demonstration areas. It has become a smart technology service provider with great reputation and brand influence in the culture and tourism field.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.56
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
56
Digitally Promoted  
Talent Transformation and Developmentto Reinforce Passion
Optimising Talent Pipelines and Dynamics
Strengthening and Safeguarding Employees’ Rights and InterestsCaring for the Continuous Growth of Employees24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.57
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
57
DIGITALLY PROMOTED TALENT TRANSFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT TO 
REINFORCE PASSION
The Company perceives talents as the primary resources and innovation as the primary motivation. China Unicom has always attached great 
importance to the cultivation of talents and deeply implementing talent development. With the goals serving the development of both the corporate 
and staff, the Company restructured its staff team amidst digital transformation and focused on cultivating a group of professionals with true technological innovation expertise and leading abilities to cope with industry competition. Meanwhile, the Company effectively safeguarded the legitimate rights and interests of employees, and encouraged them to actively participate in corporate management, letting them share the results of reform development and growing with the Company.
Measures adopted in 2020
• Building a four-level talent echelon of 18,000 staff and 
over 7,000 professionals in innovation businesses.
• Constructing a digital transformation training platform and 
c
arrying out 8 first- and second-class labor and skill competitions, 
as well as 23 third-class skill competitions at Group level.
• Building a warm and harmonio
us labor relationship, 
practically safeguarding the rights and interests of the employees, and caring for the physical and mental health of employees with a view to enhancing their sense of fulfilment.Actions to be taken in 2021
• To further improve the mechanism safeguarding the 
rights 
and interests of the employees, maintaining a medium for 
employees’ complaint, and properly handling disputes involving 
employees’ rights.
• To continue implementing the promotion and incentive 
system, 
further optimising the four-level talent management 
system and to create broader room for employees development.
• To continue 
to promote the implementation of the 
employee care policy, strengthening standardised management, and promoting the systemisation of employee care while earnestly caring for employees and solving their difficulties.
 OPTIMISING TALENT PIPELINES AND DYNAMICS
China Unicom has adhered to the people-oriented principle, treasures the value of each employee and attaches importance to ability building and 
career development of the employees. The Company is committed to improving the professional talent management system, smoothing the staff internal and external cycle and intensifying talent introduction, in order to create a high-level talent training system and to achieve each employee’s career development, promoting the growth of employees through mutual exchange.
3.17%6.73%
11.66%
27.95%50.49%
68.80%15.51% 15.69%
19.12%12.49%8.32%
60.07%By Education Level By Age
Between 30–50 years oldBelow 30 years old
Management
OthersAdministrativeTechnical Marketing
Above 50 years oldMaster degree or above Bachelor degree
College diploma Secondary school 
diploma or belowBy Job Function
Total number of employeesEmployees in  
Mainland ChinaEmployees in Hong Kong,  
Macau and Taiwan Employees overseas
242,121 241,245 603 273
New recruitsGender Distribution  
(Male/ Female)Proportion of ethnic  
minority employees (%)Number of resigned  
employeesTemporary market-oriented 
employees in Mainland China
10,652 1.54:1 6.72 5,228 12,581
 Optimising the Talent Team
Improving the professional talent management system. The Company 
has steadily promoted the construction of various core talent echelon, and 
building a four-level echelon of leaders, experts, backbones and cutting-edge talents in 14 major professions including IT, network, R&D, government and enterprise, marketing and etc. Among which, the number of technical professionals in IT, network and R&D accounted for more than 50%, implementing the dual channels for professional talent development. Enhancing talents in the innovative field. The Company has 
regularly carried out market-oriented introduction of high-end talents, 
and continuously and strongly introduce high-end talents in cloud computing, Big Data, IoT, AI, security and other fields based on the 
principle of “three open” with open posts, open salaries and open sources.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.58
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
58Four-level talent 
echelon including  
18,000
professionalsTurnover rate of  
14.7 %Accumulated total of  
3
high-end talents introduced at the headquartersAccumulated nearly
30
high-end talents introduced at branches subsidiariesMore than
7,000
professionals in the innovative fields
 Reconstructing Training System
Strengthening the construction of training system.  The Company clearly stated the key contents and training hours of education and training for 
cadres and employees at all levels, formulated targeted training programmes and key training projects through various ways such as online and offline, 
internal and external certification, and effectively promoted the implementation of the Group’s education and training system in all units and professional fields.
Building a professional competence standard system. The Company actively implemented the requirements for the reform of the Group’s 
line operation organisation system, established staff professional competence standards, position cer tification standards and knowledge and skills 
requirements, and orderly promoted professional talent ce rtification and frontline position skills certifi cation. Throughout the year, nearly 30 professional 
competence certification standards were completed, and nearly 110,000 employees obtained the certification.
Encouraging participation in continuing on-the-job education. The Company issued the “Notice on Encouraging Employees to Participate in 
Continuing On-the-job Education” to state on the relevant definitions and scopes for management norms and incentive methods of employees’ continuing on-the-job education. A total of more than 11,000 employees from various units obtained on-the-job education (degrees) and qualification certificates.
Promoting the apprenticeship system in professional fields. The Company issued the “Notice on Establishing China Unicom’s Apprenticeship 
System”. By tapping the value of internal talents from various units, combining the needs of professional requirements, and selecting and matching with professional instructors, all units have made the apprenticeship system an important way for employees to cultivate their digital transformation capabilities. A total of more than 12,000 “apprenticeship” instructors were recognised in the year.
Expanding the online platform training channels. The Company made full use of various online education platform resources to ensure 
uninterrupted education and training during the pandemic, built a live broadcast room at the headquarters, organised 172 live training sessions, and received cumulative views of more than 200,000. The Company also carried out the “WO Sharing” live class and launched 110 courses throughout the year, receiving a count of 2 million.
Accelerating the transformation of the talent structure. The Company continued to develop IT/DT talent training and conduct in-depth training for 
no less than one month. The Company optimised and formed 25 professional competence standards including IT, government and enterprise innovation, organised innovation ability certification exam and around 24,000 employees across the country have passed the exams.  Focusing on building a team of 
Smart network engineers, the Company has formed a team of 15,000 full-time and part-time Smart network engineers through dynamic empowerment such as clear team planning and implementation of training certification.
Target participants Training topics
All cadres of the GroupMore than 11,000 sessions targeting all cadres of the Group were arranged, with more than 1.25 million participants joined the related 
training.
ManagementProfessional competence training for different grades and categories was carried out, and a total of 5 sessions of rotation training courses for managers were organised and implemented, with a total of more than 1,300 employees participated in the training;Two phases of outstanding management talent training projects for digital transformation were implemented with the focus on comprehensive digital transformation;33 managers were selected to participate in training and professional competence training.
Outstanding young cadresThe Autumn advanced training programme for young and middle-aged cadres was held, with 40 outstanding young cadres participated in the theoretical study and competence training.
Innovative and  
professional talents38 training sessions of the “Engine” and “Accelerator” programmes focusing on IT and government-enterprise innovative talents were carried out to continuously develop government-enterprise innovation capabilities and IT ability certification, and a total of 24,000 
employees passed the exams;The Company accelerated the training of professional talents’ transformation ability and job ability, coordinated and carried out more than 90,000 training sessions for various professional personnel and talents, which trained 10.6 million employees in total.
Front-line employeesApproximately 68,000 training sessions were provided for front-line employees, with a total of 3.06 million participants;Targeting to focus on key front-line positions, the number of employees certified throughout the year reached 69,000.
Training rate of  
senior management
100 %Average  training time
167  hoursTraining rate of middle management
99.4 %Average  training time
98  hoursTraining rate of 
average employees
98.5 %Average  training time
88  hours
RMB364.86 million
was invested in employee training
10.638 million
employees/times 
participated in the training
Training courses for new employees24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.59
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
59
 Building a Training Platform
China Unicom strives to build a talent team and a training platform for its digital transformation. The Company actively carried out various skill 
competitions such as 5G innovative applications, Big Data innovation, solutions, and Smart Winter Olympics to continuously improve the technical ability 
level of the employees.
Carrying out skill competitions with precise positioning. Focusing on the new demands, new tasks and new requirements for employees’ skills in 
comprehensive digital transformation, carefully-planned skill competitions were arranged to achieve “vibrant resonance” with the core work, effectively promoting the transformation of knowledge and capabilities in the workforce. A total of 30 skill competitions at the Group were held throughout the year, with a total of more than 400,000 accumulated participants, achieving the highest ever record for both the number of participants and participation rate.
Carrying out labor competition based on positions. Taking labor 
competition as the mean, the Company guided the employees to make contributions based on their positions, and to promote sound and rapid development of the Company through competitions of “comparing benefits, contributions, effects, innovations, and services”. Closely focusing on business objectives, the Company organised a labor competition with the theme of promoting revenue, reducing costs and increasing efficiency with the theme to promote comprehensive digital transformation, a total of 216,000 employees participated in the competition, and directly or indirectly created benefits of RMB2.33 billion.
8
first- and second-class labor  
and skill competitionsat the Group level were held23
third-class skill competitions at the Group level were held
China Unicom held cloud-led migration skill competition
China Unicom held network AI skill competition China Unicom held industry solution marketing skill competition
Heilongjiang Unicom held optical cable maintenance skill competition Hunan Unicom held customer service experience skill competition24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.60
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
60 STRENGTHENING AND SAFEGUARDING EMPLOYEES’ RIGHTS AND INTERESTS
China Unicom regards its employees as an important asset for the Company’s development, always respects its employees, safeguards their 
legitimate rights and interests, and serves wholeheartedly of the employees, so as to promote a “win-win” situation in which employees and the 
Company grow together through market-oriented reform of human resources, and continuously enhances the employees’ sense of fulfilment and 
satisfaction.
 Adhering to fair employment
• The Company acts in strict compliance with the “Labor Law of the PRC”, “Labor Contract Law of the PRC”, “Provisions on the Prohibition of 
Using Child Labor” and other relevant regulations, enters into an employment contract with 100% of its employees, and implements the dismissal policy in accordance with the relevant national requirements. The entire Group has achieved full coverage of collective contracts, and some branches and subsidiaries have signed special contracts such as “Collective Contract for Protection of Female Employees’ Rights and Interests” and “Collective Contract for Wage Negotiation” to effectively safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of the employees.
•
 According to the “Interim Provisions on Labor Dispatch”, the Company has continuously promoted employment optimisation and standardised 
management, 
implemented regular performance and career development appraisal for 100% of its employees, adopted the policies such as equal pay 
for equal work in accordance with national requirements, resulting in growing employee satisfaction.
• According to the “Employee Recruitment Management Measures” and “Employee Promotion Incentive Guiding Opinions” and other regulations,
 
in the process of recruitment and promotion, the Company strictly prohibits any discrimination against employees in terms of age, gender, etc., and strictly prohibits the use of child labor and forced labor. Measures taken include adopting strict inspection and control procedures during the selection and recruitment process and training the main contractors who provide manpower or services. There was no discrimination case in 2020.
•
 The Company has implemented the “employment stabilisation” work deployment and placed the employment of college graduates as the 
top 
priority. The Group’s 2021 graduate recruitment plan will increase by 13% year-on-year; enhancing targeted employment assistance and providing special positions for Tibet and Xinjiang, and also relaxing the employment requirements for Hubei graduates.
 Defending democratic rights
• The Company maintains channels for employees’ complaints. The Group has established labor dispute mediation organisations at all levels, and  
mediated and handled more than 90 labor disputes, building a harmonious labor relationship.
• Relevant national regulations on working hours management have been implemented, strictly enforcing the special working hour declaration 
system 
to protect employees’ rights to take rest and vacation. A paid leave system has also been implemented to protect the legal rights of female 
employees, and reserving job opportunities for all female employees after maternity leave.
• The Company has carried out independent audits on human resources policies and procedures, proactively identifying risks of violations,
 
conducting immediate investigation and follow-up on violations and non-compliance issues, and taking timely remedial measures.
 Strengthening positive incentives
• National policies and regulations on social insurance, housing provident fund, enterprise annuity, and etc. were strictly implemented, carrying 
out health examination, wellness lectures, critical disease insurance and other work for employees, so as to continuously improving the employee health protection system.
•
 The management mechanism of total compensation within the Group had been optimized, benefitting from the bonus of the mixed-ownership 
reform. 
The labor cost allocation standard was improved for the subsidiaries and branches and persistent with the incremental incentive sharing 
mechanism, consistently promoting evaluation adjustment on existing performance while adhering to achieving a coordinated increase in labor costs, returns and efficiency. Labor costs increased over 10% year-on-year. Perfecting the long-term incentive scheme mechanism and optimising a flexible 
welfare system, employees’ sense of fulfilment was further enhanced.
•
 Breaking the “egalitarianism” salary distribution, a comprehensive incentive reporting system was launched and customised annual 
salary 
reports for employees. The Company also established a system of reporting on the workforce deployment to the staff representatives, disclosing the development and implementation of human resources policies, as well as maintaining open channels for information communication.
 CARING FOR THE CONTINUOUS GROWTH OF EMPLOYEES
China Unicom encourages employees to carry forward the spirit of “ownership” and to provide advices and suggestions to the Group. Adhering to 
the thought of serving the employees, the Company thoroughly walked the miles to get in-depth understanding on what the grassroot employees think and want, and continuously innovated various measures to serving them and assisting them to have a work-life balance. Through creating an efficient, 
relaxed and caring working atmosphere for the employees, it has enhanced employees’ sense of belonging, security and ownership to the Company.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.61
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
61
The 8th meeting of the second session of employee representative assembly  
at China Unicom
Zhejiang Unicom launched an activity to greet employees  
whose children were admitted to college in 2020, sending a deep blessing from the CompanyChairman Wang Xiaochu discussed with grassroots representatives  
at the employee representative assembly
 Improving Services for Employee
Caring for employees’ children
• To alleviate the concern for the employees who are the parents of “candidates for examinations” and for them to balance family and 
work, the 
system of paid companion leave for employees whose children are enrolled in the high school and college entrance examination has been implemented. 
11,085 people in the Group have benefited, and the companion leave rate reached 91%.
• Building a “U-choice” platform for employees’ children who will have the college entrance examination, providing guidance to fill 
in the 
applications. Through accurate analysis of Big Data, the platform guides candidates to fill in their priority choices according to their scores, ratings and 
interests. A total of 3,700 employees who are parents of candidates have been assisted to open accounts and provided services nationwide.
 Employee Participation in Management
Taking the implementation of 20 measures for the staff development as the starting point, China Unicom has coordinated and promoted the three-
in-one enterprise democratic management of “staff representative assembly, open corporate affairs, and employees’ advices and suggestions”, to effectively protect the vital interests of employees and their proactivity to participate in corporate management, which encourage employees to contribute wisdom to the development of the Company.
•
 More than 560 staff representative assemblies were held within the Group throughout the year, more than 1,770 items were reviewed 
at the 
provincial company level, more than 14,000 items were reviewed by subsidiaries and branch companies, and more than 3,230 various proposals were submitted.
•
 The leadership team of all units continuously strengthened the awareness of open corporate affairs, established and improved the 
corporate 
affairs disclosure system and mechanism, and continued to promote the disclosure of corporate affairs to the front line. More than 3,300 items were made public throughout the year, achieving transparency for employees.
•
 The channels 
and methods for employees to make suggestions and advices further broadened to strengthen the collection and adoption of public 
opinions through various effective activities such as “Online Meeting with General Manager”. More than 150 sessions of “Online Meeting with General Manager” were held throughout the year.
•
 Leveraging on the advantages of the “all endeavors for three 
purposes” discussion platform, employee representatives proposed to build a “Green Channel”, which accumulatively put forward more than 4,860 effective suggestions, with an overall acceptance rate of 32.6%.3,725
issues generally reported and concerned 
by the employees were solved in 2020295,000
employees
benefited24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.62
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
62
Special caring custody classes were been set up under the pandemic. Sichuan and Shandong branch companies carried out online cloud 
hosting classes while Guizhou branch company held summer camp, and Jiangsu branch company organised parent-child interaction activities 
of “vegetable picking” and “emergency communication knowledge popularization”, and meanwhile Zhejiang branch company arranged “small class summer nursery” in the form of 3–5 people on each county basis. In 2020, 146 classes were conducted nationwide, serving more than 5,000 employees’ children. Of which, six provinces had held more than 10 classes.
Henan Unicom gradually formed a unified intensive, refined and specialised management method comprising provinces, cities, counties 
and branches by building a “Five Small” asset management platform, minimizing asset loss, reducing input costs, increasing investment returns, and improving management quality and efficiency.
Fujian Unicom set up an exclusive “health cabin” in cities, counties and grid units to provide free health checking and consultation for 
employees, carry out health guidance to lead employees to “manage their own health”, and providing convenient, timely and warm experience for employees.Guizhou Unicom conducted military summer camp for hosting its  
employees’ children during the summerHenan Hebi Unicom organised summer nursery class
Driving the construction of the “Five Small”
China Unicom has set up a special fund for the construction of “Five Small” to improve the working environment for its employees. In 2020, China 
Unicom provided subsidy of RMB4 million for 37 projects at 17 branch companies, completed the improvement work of 3,500 sub-divided fundamental 
units, and invested more than RMB70 million.
Preventing heatstroke and offering cooling
To further strengthen the care for employees who work under high temperature, branch companies at all levels have formulated heatstroke 
prevention and cooling policies according to local conditions and carried out various cooling activities in the summer.
The management of Henan, Inner Mongolia, Sichuan, 
Jilin, Zhejiang and other branch companies visited the front-
line to show care for working under high temperature, as well as sending heatstroke prevention and cooling supplies to the front-line employees, while praising the employees’ working spirit for their duties during the high temperature, which greatly encouraged the front-line employees.
Paying attention to the mental health of employees
The trade union of the Group has been relying on the platform of Employee’s Home to carry out various online psychological care activities, such as 
live video class, on-site consultation, parent-child column, and etc. More than 120,000 people visited the mental health month webpage of Employee’s 
Home platform, and 21,281 people viewed the psychological care courses.Zhuzhou Unicom held watermelon-eating competition  
for front-line employees during the hot summer
The trade union of the headquarters, Shanghai branch and Chongqing Branch carried out a variety of offline activities, including polaroid, 
oh card, massage, sand art, psychological games, and etc. to help employees improve their psychological status and pay attention to mental health.
Chongqing Branch carried out a number of lectures on “Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) Famous Teacher Seminar”, “EAP 
Famous Doctor Seminar” and “EAP Famous Psychologist Seminar”, establishing an EAP service brand project.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.63
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
63
Yanshi Unicom organised fire safety trainingCaring for female employees
To establish and publicise the model of advanced female employees who are responsible for pioneering work, playing as a leading role, the 
Company carried out the Group-level selection and commendation activities of “heroines’ civilised position” and “heroines’ meritorious model”, which 
greatly stimulated the passion of most female employees to embrace their jobs, striving for being top-notch, hardworking, and be bold in innovation.
All levels of the branch offices have provided caring service to all female employees. Through Internet + trade union, the Company actively carried 
out activities such as female healthcare lectures, training courses, talent shows to push forward the implementation of policies including “Mothers’ Station” and “Expectant Mother-only Parking Spaces”, while also widely holding lectures on the protection of female rights and interests and marriage law forum. These initiatives demonstrated the Company’s care to every female employee, also with supports such as female-oriented health insurance, special health check-ups for female employees and setting up breastfeeding lounges.
 Ensuring Production Safety
The Company attaches great importance to production safety. In rigorous implementation of the “Production Safety Law of the People’s 
Republic of China”, the Company has developed a long-term mechanism for production safety, and strengthened the system concerning the primary responsibility of branches and subsidiaries at all levels for their own production safety, and the responsibility of management members at all levels and the responsibility of all employees for production safety. Five Group-level safety management rules and regulations were enhanced, incorporated work safety into the rolling planning of each enterprise and specialty, improved the safety supervision mechanism and personnel guarantee, and comprehensively implemented work safety. It is required to strengthen the safety training for new employees, making them to understand the production characteristics and main hazard factors of the position, be familiar with the use of health facilities and protective equipment, and strictly implemented the requirements for special position with certificates. During the year, there was no safety incident involving casualties.
93
training sessions held on 
production safety100 %
coverage on production safety training
 Diversifying Cultural and Sports Activities
China Unicom actively organised various forms of cultural and sports activities and enriched the cultural and sports life of the employees, while 
enhancing the team’s coherency and competitiveness, and showing the spirit of teamwork and the striving attitude.
 Helping Employees in Need
In accordance with the requirements of “covering the bottom line, weaving a dense network, and building a mechanism”, China Unicom has 
established a mutual complementary assistance mechanism of archives of employees in needs, insurance assistance for major diseases, and mutual 
aid funds for employees. In 2020, the Company established an online file management platform for employees in needs, realising the electronic dynamic management of the whole process of filing, helping and poverty alleviation. The Company has continuously expanded the types and categories of critical illness insurance for employees, and constantly increased the coverage. In 2020, a total of 5,498 people were being assisted and RMB64.45 million of compensation was paid out. 25 provinces have set up caring aid fund, and the scope of protection has been further extended to form a “Trinity” assistance system of critical illness insurance, mutual aid fund and supplementary medical care.
RMB78.80 million
invested in aiding employees in need RMB42.59 million
invested in consolation activities 24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.64
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
64
 Digitally Built a Mutually Beneficial and Win-win Ecosystem to
Expand Cooperation
Cooperating with peers for win-win development
Pushing forward in-depth industry cooperationBuilding a digital innovation ecosystem24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.65
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
65
DIGITALLY BUILT A MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL AND WIN-WIN ECOSYSTEM TO 
EXPAND COOPERATION
 Cooperating with peers for win-win development
China Unicom upheld the philosophy of win-win cooperation for development, continuously expanded the depth and breadth of cooperation with 
operator peers, and took important steps to advance the construction of industry ecosystem and the network “co-build co-share”, thus vigorously 
boosted the sustainable and healthy development of the industry, cyber superpower and development of digital China.
 Investing more efforts in constructing an industry ecosystem
China Unicom unremittingly pushed forward the construction of the industry ecosystem, firmly managed the vicious competition costing customer 
interests and industry value, driving a sound benign competition environment in the industry, and consistently released development bonus, all to fuel the healthy and sustainable development of the telecommunications industry.
 Deepening network “co-build and co-share”
China Unicom deeply implemented the new development philosophy with the principle “win-win cooperation and collaborative development” to 
pinpoint enhancing on network supply capabilities and quality efficiency, and actively pushed forward the synergizing edges and in-depth cooperation 
in the fields of resources and innovation among industry peers, forming a collaborative synergy in development, and the commitment to becoming the 
premium operator with quality customer perception.
Comprehensively pushing forward 5G network “co-build co share”
China Unicom vigorously conducted the cooperation with China Telecom to co-build and co-share one single 5G access network in the full lifecycle 
of 5G development across the entire network.
• China 
Unicom enhanced cooperation management. The two parties simultaneously formed a 5G “co-build co-share” working group in the 
three levels of the headquarters, provinces and cities, prepared the “2020 Guiding Opinions on Fundamental Network Co-build, Co-share and Co-
maintenance”, formulated unified technical specifications for “co-build co-share” network, as well as 4/5G network quality assessment standards, and 
perfected organizational and policy support.
• China Unicom built the world’s first large-scale 5G “co-build co-share” network in the shortest time and with the least investment, 
achieving 
network scale, coverage, bandwidth and speed doubled and providing the mass users with better quality mobile network services.
• China Unicom further pushed forward the 5G network “co-build co-share, co-maintenance and co-optimize”, along with the goal of “unification  
in 
user perception, business experience, network quality, and service support”, enhancing network quality through collaboration and realizing leading 
network quality and user perception.
• Being the world’s first scale commercialization of SA network, China Unicom vigorously pushed forward the development of the 5G value chain 
and 5G consumption upgrade.
• China Unicom’s work in 5G “co-build co-share” was fully recognized numerous times by the Central government leadership and received 
high 
praise from the ministries and commissions such as the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission and Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. Such work was also included by the People’s Daily in a series of reports Intensifying New Infrastructure and Cultivating New 
Drives on March 27.Seeking mutual benefit and win-win results through partnership and cooperation seems natural to the pattern of economic laws and social development. Under the new 
circumstance where global digital transformation accelerated, China Unicom continuously enhanced the cooperation with industry peers, strategic investors, Internet companies and 
value chain partners, pushed forward the industry collaborative development and network “co-build co-share”, driving the optimization and upgrade of the value chain and supply chain, as well as the new innovative ecosystem under the booming digital age, all together promoted the living quality of the people and elevated the development and quality of a Smart society.
Measure adopted in 2020 Actions to be taken in 2021
• More efforts invested in constructing an industry ecology. By deepening 
the 
network “co-build, co-share & co-maintain”, an accumulated 380,000 5G 
co-share base station were in use, saving more than RMB76 billion in capital expenditure.
•
 China Unicom brought along collaborative development of upstream and  
downstream 
partners in the value chain including equipment suppliers, terminal 
suppliers, channel partners, and virtual operators.
• Innovative cooperation was 
reinforced in digital consumption, industrial 
digitization and capital with strategic investors and leading enterprises in the industry.•
 To steadily push forward the 5G network “co-build co share” and to 
explore sharing one single 4G network in rural and indoor area respectively.
• To drive 
upstream and downstream partners in the value chain to fulfill 
social responsibilities.
• To thoroughly explore 5G business cooperation models, expanding 
t
he new ecosystem of platform aggregation, and building a digital consumption 
ecosystem.
• To further 
deepen capital operation and accelerate to improve the 
shortcomings of core capabilities in the innovation field.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.66
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
66
Scale doubled:
380,000
on cumulative basis 5G base 
stations co-sharedCoverage doubled:
348
cities covered nationwideSpeed doubled:
Achieved the global 
highest speed
2.7 Gbps
in the 5G medium frequency 
bandEconomic efficiency:
About
RMB76
billion, saving 
in investment
On September 9, 2020, China Unicom and China Telecom held a conference in Beijing to review the first year of work in the 5G network “co-build co share” and comprehensively 
deepened the “co-build co share” cooperation. Both Chairmen activated the “co-build co share” cloud ceremony.
4G “Co-build Co-share” reaching a new level
• Ch
ina Unicom deeply advanced the 4G “co-build co-share” with China Telecom, focusing on scenarios such as complementary coverage, 
new scenarios, and station site integration, together exploring sharing one single network in rural and indoor area, which effectively expanded network 
coverage and improved network quality.
• 390,000 4G co-share communities were newly added throughout the year, with a total of RMB9 billion of investment saved and RMB1 billion of
 
operation cost saved per year for both parties.
Full “Co-build Co-share” achieving substantial progress
• China Unicom expanded in-depth fundamental resources “co-build co-share co-maintenance”, fully co-building on incremental resources, 
co-
sharing on existing resources , while continuing to expand cooperation area and enhancing cooperation efficiency, which would improve the operating 
effectiveness and efficiency of the fundamental resources and lowering network expenses.
• The scope of cooperation with peer operators had expanded to areas including co-building optical cables, co-sharing fiber cores and 
cloud 
infrastructure.
Responsibility performance indicator 2018 2019 2020
4G co-building rate for indoor distribution systems (%) 79 79 65
Pole line co-building rate (%) 91 91 95
Pole line co-sharing rate (%) 95 97 92
Pipeline co-building rate (%) 94 92 94
Pipeline co-sharing rate (%) 96 93 97Operation cost 
saving
RMB9
billion/year24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.67
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
67
China Unicom Shandong Qingdao focused on the 
pain points and difficulties of network maintenance and 
optimization, and carried out in-depth cooperation with 
China Telecom Qingdao to propose an innovative solution for the dynamic complementation of 4G equipment obstacles of the Qingdao Cross-sea Bridge. After the solution was deployed, both parties’ network coverage ratio of the cross-sea bridge grew from an average of 72.69% to 98.15%. It was estimated that about RMB30,000 of expenses would be saved annually. By sharing resources, both parties optimized the coverage quality of the mobile network of maritime transportation facilities and surrounding areas, thus remarkably improving the livelihood of the local people.
The fault points and the road sections covered by China Unicom and China Telecom are well complementary
Left: On April 22, the number of 5G “co-build co-share” base stations by China Unicom Zhejiang Ningbo and China Telecom Ningbo exceeded 1,500
Right: China Unicom Shanghai and China Telecom Shanghai conducted a joint exercise for communication assurance at the International Import Expo
China Unicom Henan delivered sound “co-build co-share” results China Unicom Jiangsu comprehensively pushed forward “co-build co-share”
 Pushing forward in-depth industry cooperation
In a new era characterized by intelligent connection of all things, while facing the value chain, China Unicom embraced an open attitude, worked 
with all parties to co-build innovative alliances, co-develop business models, co-share high-quality resources, and together expanding new potential for 
5G integrated development, as well as broadened cooperation in various fields such as technologies, businesses, resources and capital, creating a benign industrial ecosystem.
 Deepening cooperation with equipment suppliers
China Unicom enhanced the regulation and management of equipment suppliers, embedded policies in the supply chain platform, and implemented 
whole-procedure digital operation of the supply chain.
Enhancing regulated management
• China Unic
om observed the laws to call for tenders, and make selection by means of open tendering in strict accordance with the requirements 
of national laws and regulations. For projects that are not necessarily subject to tendering, it adopted innovative transaction tools like open competition 
and open direct procurement in line with the philosophy of the SASAC for open procurement to select qualified suppliers on the supply chain platform. 
The amount of centralized procurement stood at approximately RMB81.63 billion.
• By lowering the access threshold for suppliers, China Unicom widely adopted the product and technology qualification system, thus 
allowing 
small suppliers to fairly take part in procurement activities.
• China Unicom conducted credit reviews for enterprises in the tendering and procurement activities, and prohibited rule-violating 
and 
untrustworthy enterprises from taking part in the tendering and bidding activities.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.68
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
68
Creating a digital supply chain
• China Unicom continuously upgraded the functions of the electronic tendering and bidding platform, offered the audio and video conference 
function, realized the “non-face-to-face” bid evaluation during the fight against the pandemic, and improved user perception.
• China Unicom continuously strengthened the capabilities of the e-commerce platform, providing diversified and convenient procurement
 
supporting services for sub-divided units in the market front-line, product manager work stations and several procurement tools, and increased 
procurement efficiency comprehensively.
• China Unicom made a comprehensive plan to create a supplier management database, realized online closed-loop, whole-procedure and 
full-
lifecycle management of suppliers, and provided support in fundamental information for supplier review.
• Based on the online operations during all processes of the supply chain such as sourcing, procurement, logistics, warehousing and 
disposal, 
China Unicom established a risk prevention and control management organization system with “centralized IT”, developed a digital risk prevention and control model driven by Big Data through such procedures as risk identification, risk assessment, risk response and risk control, implemented digital and intelligent real-time early warning and control of risks throughout the procurement process, and identified and eliminated potential risks.
Total number of e-commerce 
platform vendors
57,00016,000
new vendors in the yearVendors exited and downgraded
7,659
KPI 2018 2019 2020
Centralized procurement ratio (%) 88.6 90.6 91.4
Proportion of local vendors (%) >99 >99 >99
Number of times of vendors information verification 8135 19072 25653
Proportion of electronic procurement (%) 58 68 88
 Broadening cooperation with terminal suppliers
China Unicom established a trading platform of Woego and a service portal with terminal partners, enhanced the guidance and management of 
terminal suppliers, and improved the work efficiency and use perception of partners.
Building a cooperation and sharing platform
• As a nationwide comprehensive B2B trading platform, the Woego platform provides upstream and downstream partners in the industrial 
chain 
with services such as intelligent transactions, service empowerment, financial loans, channel marketing and other service solutions, also specialized 
solutions for intelligent ecology cooperation such as centralized operation, special area sales, exclusive consultants and special marketing. In 2020, the 
platform served over 30,000 small- and medium-sized channel trading customers.
• China Unicom 
built a service portal for terminal partners. With service experience as core philosophy, it realized online visualization and 
transparent management during the whole process from cooperation to terminal roll-out, constantly improving working efficiency and user perception of the partners.
•
 China Unicom proactively developed market-oriented multi-supplier cooperation. In 2020, the headquarters brought in 102 mobile terminal
 
models and 314 pan-intelligence models and introduced over 240 provincial suppliers.
Driving terminal suppliers to fulfill their responsibilities
China Unicom organized a series of activities, namely “Resonance Operation 2020” and China Unicom “5G Anniversary Takeoff”, to empower over 
one hundred partners and one thousand of industries to fight the pandemic and resume production.
• China Unicom established an intelligent healthcare and elderly care supply chain system, created a communication platform for intelligent elderly
 
care suppliers, and improved the suppliers’ capabilities to fulfill social responsibilities for healthcare and elderly care, thus the elderly could fully access 
the digital healthcare services.
• Chi
na Unicom required partners to conscientiously perform China’s 3C (China Compulsory Certi fication) and SRRC (State Radio Regulatory 
Commission) certifications for terminal products, and adopted environmentally friendly materials in transportation terminal products. Also, it promoted 
old-for-new services and made possible scientific recycling of old phones, and lowered environmental protection pressure.
• China Unicom reinforced efforts in governing the malicious software of phones, with all terminal suppliers promising not to install 
malicious 
software on terminal products. The Company timely and dynamically learned the prevention mechanisms adopted by terminal suppliers, and firmly  
safeguarded the legitimate rights and interests of the consumers.
• China Unicom 
actively communicated with terminal suppliers with negative news, and established a special group to rapidly implement such 
tasks as customer complaints, information veri fication, and customer appeasing, reducing negative social impacts, and maintained the corporate image 
and reputation.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.69
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
69
China Unicom actively constructed an ecosystem for terminal cooperation, established a joint laboratory of 5G terminal innovation, a joint 
R&D center of 5G terminal innovation, and an innovation center of 5G terminal application cooperation together with 32 partners from fields 
including chips, module terminals, application content and chain channels, forming a sound landscape where the upstream and downstream of 
the value chain joined hands to make progress and achieved win-win cooperation.
On February 24, 2020, China Unicom united over 1,000 companies in the ecological chain to launch the “Resonance Action 2020”, a series 
of online activities for new ecological cooperation of the 5G terminal industry chain that lasted 37 days.
 Vigorously broadening the cooperation with channels
China Unicom reinforced efforts in digital innovation, empowered the transformational development of cooperation channels, realized a win-
win situation for operators, cooperative channels and users through financial cooperation, privileges cooperation, and resource sharing, as well as 
the ecological and platform-based cooperation and operation, which achieved a new cooperative channel operation system featuring win-win among 
operators, cooperation channels, and users that were built for sustainability, high quality and ecology.
Reinforcing fair cooperation
• China 
Unicom helped channel partners to fight against the pandemic and resume production. China Unicom actively responded to the 
nation’s call to rapidly implement the working requirements for providing guarantee for both corporate pandemic prevention and control, as well as 
production and operation, and developed a mutual help plan “Six Sections and 18 Articles of Work and Production Resumption of Cooperative Channels”. The plan surmounted the difficulties, helped cooperative channels to fight against the pandemic, resumed production and rapidly restored production and operation.
•
 China Unicom 
drove channel partners for transformative development. China Unicom developed iterative and innovative digital capabilities, 
empowered channel partners via financial installment, agile supply chain and online marketing, improved the capability to operate cooperative channels, and brought along the transformative development of the channel partners. In 2020, the number of financial installment orders from channel partners 
grew by over 50% from the previous year, and the cloud shelf was made available to 28,000 channel partners in 30 provinces.
•
 China Unicom improved the digitalization of IT systems. China Unicom continuously promoted light platform tools, introduced partners in a fast  
manner, rapidly accepted business, quickly recorded the income, and drove partners to improve efficiency and increase benefits.
Driving channel partners to fulfill their responsibilities
• China Unicom 
comprehensively applied the portrait comparison technology and ID verification equipment to implement the “real-name 
registration system” and helped channel partners to conduct production and operation activities in line with laws and regulations.
• China Unicom strengthened training and publicizing all policies to ensure that channel partners well comprehended the related policies, relying 
on IT Big data capabilities to analyze and screen abnormal data, thus reducing the risk of rule-violating operation.By 
cross-border cooperation, China Unicom drove the new ecology of the value chain to realize cross-border and 
integrated evolution from a single chain of the communications industry and intelligent terminal industry to multiple chains.  
The Company shared the platform in which industry chain partners participated and resumed normal production and 
operation as soon as possible.How to realize 
“similar frequency”?
How to realize 
“vibration”?China Unicom shored up the industry via the following five functions including cooperative alliance, empowerment 
roll-out, forum and salon, cooperative recruitment, and 5G+VR meeting participation, and revitalized the market by creating  
with partners the cultural and creative day, e-sports day, brand day, promotion day, and new product day.
On March 11, China Unicom worked with 21 partners such as chip suppliers, engine suppliers, XR terminal suppliers and XR application 
content suppliers to jointly build a 5G XR terminal ecological alliance and rolled out its project. China Unicom launched three empowerment 
platforms, namely, the XR terminal commercialization platform, incubation platform, and technology platform, as well as eight implementation plans in the 5GXR series scheme to jointly move forward the in-depth development of the 5G terminal industry into the professional fields.
Number of channel partners
About 200,000Online channel partners of cloud storesOver 
4,00024071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.70
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
70
In April 2020, China Unicom signed a strategic cooperation 
agreement with People’s Daily Online to jointly construct an “intelligent 
media platform”. By doing so, the mainstream and authoritative voices and core socialist values could be passed on to the mass in a fast, accurate, and efficient manner. In the future, the two parties will further carry out cooperation in the value-added business such as fixed communications services, brand and public opinion services, joint construction of education platforms and 5G innovative services.In December 2020, China Unicom signed a strategic cooperation 
framework agreement with Meituan. Based on the advantages of resource endowments, the two parties conducted in-depth cooperation centering around 5G, Internet of Things and Big data, pushed forward digital transformation and upgrading through off-line empowerment, and jointly explored more business models and development directions. Reinforcing cooperation with virtual operators
China Unicom upheld the philosophies of “take initiative, cooperation, openness, and win-win results” and mainly adopted four measures, namely, “health promotion, fight 
against the pandemic, stronger innovation, and ecosystem building”, pushing forward the high-quality transformational development of the resale business.
Health promotion. China Unicom set up a full-cycle management and control mechanism to govern the problem of junk information of virtual network operator, lowered the 
crank call complaint ratio of virtual network operator by 76%, guided the healthy and compliant development of the virtual network operator, and created an industry atmosphere 
of integrity.
Fight against the pandemic. During the period when the pandemic stroke the hardest, China Unicom took nine major measures, including postponing payment time, 
guaranteeing resource supply and providing stronger operation support, to help cooperative enterprises weather through the hard time and assist them successfully to resume work and production.
Stronger innovation. China Unicom expanded the scale of value-added services such as Communications Assistant, Coloring Ring Back Tone, and Privileges, opened up the 
capabilities of 5G high-speed network, VoLTE high-definition voice and message billing, took the lead in launching the resale of the Internet of Things, and improve the innovative 
capabilities of virtual business services.
Ecosystem building. China Unicom carried out extensive two-way empowerment, realized all-rounded 
ecological cooperation through the cooperation platform for the virtual network operator, brought in high-quality products and capabilities of cooperative enterprises, enhanced the collaboration among internal subsidiaries, and made a joint effort to satisfy the needs of consumers for a good and intelligent life. In 2020, China Unicom cooperated with 28 enterprises in the resales business, and expanded the pilot scope to about 300 cities, covering  
the majority of provincial capitals and economically developed regions and the number of resales business users reached 61.73 million. Number of resales users
61.73  million
 Building a digital innovation ecosystem
The digital economy is closely tied with the digital ecosystem. Facing the development trend of consumer digitalization and industrial digitalization, China Unicom continuously 
deepened cooperation with strategic investors and leading enterprises in the industry in fields such as public innovation, government and enterprise innovation, and capital, to jointly provide 
customers with high-quality products and services and fueling economic and social transformation and upgrading.
 Deepening cooperation in digital consumption
China Unicom actively broadened cooperation in the fields of digital product innovation to jointly provide customers with high-quality products and services.
• China Unicom formed a joint project 
group 
with Baidu, focusing on deepened and 
broadened cooperation such as Smart home, 
intelligent customer services, brand building and live-streaming interaction, constructing a system for tens of millions of ecological products, and providing customers with diversified products and 
services with optimal experience.•
 China Unicom and Alibaba both gathered high-
quality 
resources and conducted platform-connected and 
ecological cooperation of “scenarios, goods and people”, jointly expanded and strengthened product operation, channel operation and customer operation, and realized mutual benefit and win-win results. In 2020, China Unicom promoted digital village cooperation across China, with a total of over 6,000 digital villages established and 140,000 users covered.•
 Cooperating with high-quality 
partners 
such as Tencent, iQiyi, Youku, Mango 
TV and Bilibili, China Unicom had over 20 million users of cooperative products based on “content + traffic + privileges”, and achieved an accumulative of over 30 million business subscriptions.
China Unicom signed a strategic cooperation agreement  
with People’s Daily OnlineChina Unicom signed a strategic cooperation framework agreement  
with Meituan24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.71
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
71
 Expanding industrial digital cooperation
China Unicom valued to enhance the cooperation on government-enterprise products and key projects with upstream and downstream partners in 
the value chain, fueling economic and social transformation and upgrading.
• China Unicom consistently pushed forward the development and iteration of products by joint ventures such as Yunlizhihui, Yunjingwenlv,
 
Yundee, Yundun, Smart Steps, and others, and improved the product and service capabilities in areas including Smart cities, tourism, industrial Internet, 
cybersecurity, and demographic Big Data. In 2020, there were a total of over 200 bid projects, with the amount of bid exceeding RMB730 million.
• China Unicom continuously deepened cooperation with partners in public cloud and adopted the principles of joint input of resources, 
effective 
connection of technologies, and reasonable distribution of revenue to create a new model of joint construction and operation of the public cloud.
In May 2020, Yunjingwenlv worked with the Guizhou Province 
to develop “Travel across Guizhou with One Code”, an all-area 
Smart travel platform. With just one QR code, the tourists traveling in Guizhou can access services concerning “food, accommodation, transportation, traveling, shopping and entertainment”. Currently, the platform has gathered over 20,000 basic data of 415 A-grade scenic spots, hotels, cultural facilities, restaurants, homestays, drawing maps of scenic spots, elaborate routes, and guides across the province, which has comprehensively improved the experience of tourist traveling in Guizhou.
 Building a capital cooperation ecosystem
China Unicom conducted in-depth capital cooperation with BATJ and other strategic investors of mixed ownership reform and leading companies 
in the industry, boosted the two parties’ business cooperation via capital cooperation, and met the customers’ demands with differentiated services.
• In May 2020, China Unicom established iCloud 
Wisdom 
Technology Co., Ltd. with NetDragon Websoft 
Holdings Limited, National Engineering Research Center 
For E-Learning, and National Engineering Laboratory of Educational Big Data to provide customers with products and services with whole-procedure penetration and comprehensive solutions for education informatization.
•
 In November 2020, China Unicom established Beijing 
International Cloud 
Broadcasting Technology Co., Ltd. with 
CDV, Academy of Broadcasting Science, NRTA, and Beijing Gehua CATV Network Co., Ltd. to provide “service access with full cloud + full IP + full mobile + immediate access services” for video communication, driving video production and communication to develop in a full-media, intelligent and light manner.
24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.72
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
72
RESPONSIBILITY 
MANAGEMENT
Strategy of Responsibility
Organisation of ResponsibilitySystem for ResponsibilityCapabilities on ResponsibilityCommunication on Responsibility24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.73
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
73
RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT
 STRATEGY OF RESPONSIBILITY
China Unicom is always committed to integrating its own development with broader social responsibility to achieve the harmony and alignment 
of corporate interests and social goals. In 2020, under the guidance of the new development philosophies of innovation, coordination, green, openness 
and sharing, the Company continued to practically implement national strategic plans such as Cyber Superpower, Digital China and the “Belt and Road Initiative”, etc. and strived to promote comprehensive digital transformation, fully supporting the transformation and upgrade of the economy and society.
Customers
Shareholders
Community
PartnersGovernment
Employees
Peers
Social responsibility managementInnovate on application
services to support 
digital economy
Build premium network 
to support cyber 
superpower 
development
Share with society 
to promote 
social harmony
Care about staff 
growth and enhance 
sense of rewardPractise green 
development and 
promote energy 
conservation in societySupport industry 
development 
through open and 
win-win cooperation
CREATE AND 
ENHANCE VALUE
Implementing social responsibility strategies Improving social responsibility organisations
Establishing social responsibility systems Assessing social responsibility capabilities Selecting social responsibility participation
China Unicom’s Social Responsibility Strategy System
China Unicom has established a social responsibility agenda selection procedure based on the principle of “closely following standards, regularly 
updating and sustainably improving”. Our social responsibility agenda will be updated on a continuous basis in close tandem with the domestic and international situation and social hot spots as well as the standards of advanced enterprises. In 2020, social responsibility implementation was guided by six substantial agenda to ensure that the fulfillment of responsibilities meets the needs of the people’s livelihood and responds to the concerns of 
stakeholders.
China Unicom’s procedure for the selection of social responsibility agenda     Establishing the agenda pool
Social responsibility agenda of China 
Unicom is developed with reference to feedback from stakeholders, including records of hotline conversation at customer service centres, interviews with suppliers, staff questionnaires, media analysis reports, etc.Examination and confirmation
The agenda selected are 
subject to examination before the social responsibility agenda are finalisedPrioritising the agenda
The importance of agenda will 
be prioritised in accordance with GRI and the agenda selection matrix based on two dimensions: “impact on operations of China Unicom” and “importance to stakeholders”.Identifying the source of agenda
The Company’s social responsibility agenda 
considered both international standards and state policies requirements. Based on the concerns of the public, development trends of domestic and overseas communications practitioners or relevant engagements and other topics. The Company widely collected social responsibility source materials from stakeholders within and outside of the Company with reference to agenda under social responsibility standards.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.74
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
74
 ORGANISATION OF RESPONSIBILITY
The Board of Directors of China Unicom is fully responsible for the environmental, social and governance strategy and reporting, including the 
approval of social responsibility planning, the review of social responsibility objectives and progress, the approval of social responsibility reports and other 
major issues. The Board of Directors authorises the Company’s Social Responsibility Guidance Committee to be responsible for the implementation of corporate social responsibility strategy and related operational matters. The Social Responsibility Guidance Committee regularly reports and puts forward suggestions on social responsibility matters to the Board of Directors. Other relevant departments of the Group, the provincial branches and subsidiaries are responsible for social responsibility implementation and carry out responsibility practice in their respective business specialisations.
Other departments 
at headquarter
Corporate Development 
Department/Legal 
Department31 provincial branches
Subsidiaries
A-Share Company/
Red chip CompanyBoard of 
DirectorsChina Unicom Social 
Responsibility 
Guidance Committee
• approve CSR plan
• review of CSR
 objectives and progress
• approve CSR 
 reports
• approve other
 significant CSR  matters• draft CSR plan
• hear and deploy 
 CSR work
• implement CSR strategy• draft CSR reports• draft other significant 
 CSR matters• devise CSR plan
• formulate CSR 
 management system
• coordinate and promote 
 CSR operations of  headquarters’ departments,  provincial branches and  subsidiaries
• prepare CSR reports• improve the CSR index 
 system
• organise CSR training• carry out assessments on 
 outstanding CSR examples
• conduct CSR research and 
 exchange
• fulfilll responsibilities as  member of the capital market
• procure daily communication 
 with investors• implement CSR tasks  assigned by the Group
• collect, compile and  
 submit CSR information
• participate in the CSR  
 report preparation and   topical research of the Group
• implement significant  
 CSR projects of the Group
• carry out CSR practice  
 with Group characteristics
• communicate with  
 stakeholders involved with   respect to their own   responsibilities
China Unicom’s social responsibility working organisation and major dutiesThe six-major core agenda of China Unicom in 2020 were determined through the analysis and selection of the agenda collected according to the 
social responsibility agenda selection procedures and the agenda selection matrix.● Environment   ● Society   ● Economy● Fighting against 
the pandemic
● Narrowing the 
digital gap
● Customer rights 
protection● New digital 
infrastructure● Network 
information security
● Data privacy
● High quality service
● Communication with 
stakeholders
● Economic 
performance● Charity and 
poverty alleviation● Overseas 
responsibility
performance
● Community 
public welfare
● Industry ecological 
construction● Green recycling 
development
● Carbon emission and 
climate change● Supply chain 
management● Industrial digitalisation
● Digital transformation
● Legal compliance● Emergency 
communication support
● Employee care
● Responsibility awareness 
enhancement
high Very high
Importance for China Unicom
Very high Importance for stakeholders
China Unicom social responsibility agenda selection matrix
Digital infrastructure 
enhancementAccelerating technological innovationService quality improvement
Join hands with  
sta
 ff growthGovernance capacity enhancementWin-win cooperation assistance
24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.75
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
75
 SYSTEM FOR RESPONSIBILITY
The Company’s social responsibility management system comprises of organisation management, implementation management, communication 
management and performance management etc. In operation, we adhere to the principles of management first, incorporation into operations and joint 
actions by higher and lower levels. We clarify the responsibility plan, promote the responsibility practice and respond to the concerns of all parties. In 
strict compliance with international and domestic social responsibility standards, the Company focused on six substantial agenda of the Company and further optimised the “China Unicom CSR Indicator System” and drove social responsibility to be effectively integrated into enterprise production and operation on that basis.
China Unicom CSR Indicator SystemDigital infrastructure 
enhancementGovernance capacity enhancementAccelerating technological innovation
Narrowing the digital gap
Information universal serviceNetwork and service qualityInformation security and privacy protectionPromoting new digital infrastructureDigital transformationDeepening mixed-ownership reformStimulating the vitality of micro subjectEmployee rights protectionHuman rights protectionLegal complianceEconomic performanceResponsibility awarenessDigital industrialisationIndustrial digitalisationTackling key technical problemsSmart middle platform constructionUnified digital sledTransformation of technological achievements
123
645
 CAPABILITIES ON RESPONSIBILITY
In 2020, China Unicom has continuously strengthened the construction of responsibility capacity, incorporated the fulfillment of social responsibility 
into the Company’s “14th Five-Year Plan”, continuously promoted the concept of responsibility and rooted in the awareness of all employees. We have 
established a two-level social responsibility team at the headquarters, branches and subsidiaries, extensively and deeply promoted the implementation of responsibility practice, and encouraged the improvement of the Group’s ability to fulfill its responsibilities through case sharing. Many responsibility 
practices have won awards from all walks of life. We have done a good job in information tracking and disclosure, effectively responded to the concerns of stakeholders, and the social responsibility report has been positively evaluated. We have actively participated in various exchange seminars and trainings organised by the social responsibility industry, paying attention to the development trend of social responsibility, learning excellent enterprise experience, contributing ideas and opinions, and helping the sustainable and in-depth development of social responsibility.
•
 The Company’s 
social responsibility report was rated as “2020 Golden Bee Excellent CSR Report — Leading Enterprise”, and was selected 
as “100 Excellent CSR Reports” in the International Forum on Corporate Social Responsibility of Industry and Information Technology of the 2020 Sustainable Development Report of China’s Industry and Information Technology.
•
 Three responsibility practice cases, such as 5G co-build co-share, Digital Intelligence to Fight Against Pandemic and Overseas Responsibility 
Performance, 
were selected into the blue book series of central state-owned enterprise corporate social responsibility, Overseas responsibility 
performance case “Connect the World, Let Love Grow” was selected as “Best Practice of Enterprises to Achieve Sustainable Development Goals 2020” issued by the UN Global Compact Network China.
•
 Participated in 
the questionnaire survey of Research Report on Corporate Social Responsibility of Central state-owned Enterprises issued by 
State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, and the questionnaire survey on the demand of sustainable development goals of the investment in the “Belt and Road Initiative” project of the UN Global Compact.
•
 Participated in the UN Global Compact 2020 China Business Summit on achieving sustainable development goals, the International Forum
 
on Corporate Social Responsibility of Industry and Information Technology, and the 13th International Conference on CSR Reporting in China of China Sustainability Tribune in order to contribute China Unicom’s wisdom.Service quality improvement
High quality service
Smart livingFighting against COVID-19 pandemicPoverty alleviation endeavorsCharityCustomer rights protectionJoin hands with sta  ff 
growth
Training system reconstructionEmployee rights protectionEncouraging participation in managementWork-life balanceHelping employees with difficulties
Win-win cooperation 
assistance
Co-build co-share
Industry ecological cooperationvalue chain cooperationPartners relationshipCommunication with stakeholders24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.76
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
76 COMMUNICATION ON RESPONSIBILITY
China Unicom has established a social responsibility communication mechanism focused on ongoing specific communication based on 
stakeholders’ expectations and its substantial social responsibility agenda.
Practical issue Stakeholder Form of communication Expectations for China Unicom
Digital infrastructure 
enhancementCustomers• Meetings
• Visits• High-speed 
and smooth networks
• Innov ative smart network services
• High-quality 
networks in remote areas
• Network
 information security assurance
Accelerating technological 
innovationAll stakeholders• Meetings
• Visits
• W
eibo/WeChat•  Innov
ative and futuristic communication 
technologies
• Empowering
 digital transformation of industry
Service quality 
improvementCommunity• Meetings
• Forums
• NPS 
(Net Promoter Score) survey
• W
eibo/WeChat
• Service
 hotline
• Villages 
support station• Smart 
products that enhance the quality of life
• Favour
able and transparent tariff policy
• Convenient 
and efficient  service assurance
• Sustainable 
and effective donations
• Greater
 effort in poverty aid and relief
• Charitable 
volunteering programmes
Governance capacity 
enhancementShareholders• General
 meeting of shareholders
• Investor 
meeting• Timely
 and transparent information access
• Long-term
 stable investment gains
• Corporate
 governance and risk control
•  Legal 
compliance and corruption-resistance 
operations
Government• Face 
to face communication
• Meetings• Fair 
competitive market order
• Efficienc y
 enhancement and cost reduction
•  Modernisation
 of governance capacity and 
system
Public and media• Phone 
communication and forums
• Internet-based
 communication• Timely
 acquire the Company’s information
• Interactive
 communication with the Company
Ecological environment —• Green
 and eco-friendly operations
• Reduction 
of pollution through recycling
Join hands with sta  ff 
g
rowthEmployees• Staff 
forums
• Staff 
representative assemblies
• Democratic
 informal meetings
•  Online 
communication with the 
General Manager• Protection 
of lawful rights and interests
• Tr
aining and career development opportunities
•  Opportunities 
for participation in democratic 
management
• Support 
in adversity
• Safe 
and comfortable work environment
Win-win cooperation 
assistancePartners• Partners’ 
conference
• Meetings, 
visits
• Self-service
 portals of partners• Wide 
scope of cooperation
• Fair 
and open opportunities for cooperation
• Extensive 
and convenient support services
Peers• Face 
to face communication
• Meetings•  Stronger 
ability for complementary use of 
resources
• Cost 
savings and higher efficienc y
Customers • Interviews
 and hotlines • Driving 
partners’ accountability24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.77
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
77
APPENDICES
 KEY PERFORMANCE
Category Indicator Unit 2018 2019 2020
Operations and 
developmentTotal assets RMB billion 540.32 562.5 580.62
Operating revenue RMB billion 290.88 290.51 303.84
Service revenue RMB billion 263.7 264.39 275.81
Profit before income tax RMB billion 13.081 14.17 16.03
Mobile billing subscribers Thousand 315036 318475 305811
of which: 4G subscribers Thousand 219925 253766 270181
Fixed-line local access subscribers Thousand 55899 54215 47339
Fixed-line broadband subscribers Thousand 80880 83478 86095
Online 2I subscribers Thousand 53810 54140 50940
Network capabilityNumber of 4G base stations Thousand 987 1410 1503
Population coverage of 4G % 90 93 94
Number of fixed network broadband access ports Billion 0.215 0.221 0.225
Broadband coverage rate in administrative villages in 
ten northern provinces% 96 95 96
Urban 100M or above broadband network coverage 
rate% 77.7 86.3 85.3
Urban 20M or above broadband network coverage 
rate% 97 96 96
Rural 4M or above broadband network coverage rate % 100 100 100
Coverage rate of mobile network in township % 100 100 97.34
Coverage rate of mobile network in administrative 
villages% 89 90 86
Total number of administrative village with coverage 
of broadband networkThousand 282 299 306
Co-construction rate of indoor distribution system % 79 79 65
Co-construction rate of pole lines % 91 91 95
Sharing rate of pole lines % 95 97 92
Co-construction rate of pipelines % 94 92 94
Sharing rate of pipelines % 96 93 97
International interconnection bandwidth G 2427 2460 2460
4G network access rate % 99.77 99.74 99.86
4G network call drop rate % 0.09 0.06 0.04
5G commercialised cities Number — 50 348
5G base stations Thousand — — 380
Internet of things connections Billion 0.109 0.187 0.238
Commitment in major 
assurance initiativesTotal times of emergency communication assurance Times 407 578 612
Emergency communication vehicles called outThousand 
vehicle-time133 152 153
Emergency communication equipment inputtedThousand 
set-time94 119 180
Personnel usedThousand 
person-time482 641 660
Proprietary innovationTechnological innovation input RMB billion 11.5 10.26 12.28
Number of personnel in technical activities Persons 7703 9155 14149
International standards documents Articles 545 500 467
Industry standards Items 285 280 295
Number of patents applied Items 1121 1439 1734
Number of patents granted Items 441 658 518
Customer serviceMonthly average complaint ratePerson-times/
million users2.96 18.26 11.84
Overall satisfaction rate Points 80.42 81.11 81.32
Including: Fixed line user satisfaction rate Points 85.73 87.9 87.7
Mobile phone user satisfaction rate Points 81.94 82.02 82.22
Fixed broadband user satisfaction rate Points 76.17 81.51 80.49
Mobile Internet user 
satisfaction ratePoints 77.83 78.49 79.22
People-orientedGender proportion of employees Male: female 1.50:1 1.53:1 1.54:1
Proportion of ethnic minority employees % 6.77 7.33 6.72
Proportion of female in senior management % 11 11.9 12.524071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.78
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
78Category Indicator Unit 2018 2019 2020
People-orientedInput in employee training RMB million 422.99 374.36 364.86
Per capita training time Hours 66 63 88
Network college online learning person-time Thousand person-times 11250 18078 51000
Network college total online learning hours Thousand credit hours 7040 9163 21782
Proportion of contracted employees in labor union % 100 100 100
Input to help and support employees suffered from 
difficultiesRMB thousand 30220 79000 78800
Input in condolence fund RMB thousand 28530 28750 42590
Employee turnover rate % 2.16 1.85 1.87
New employees Persons 8565 9831 10281
Total number of new male employees Persons 5207 6076 6422
Total number of new female employees Persons 3358 3755 3859
Number of employees who voluntarily resign Persons 6636 4521 4692
Number of male employees who voluntarily resign Persons 3983 2674 2806
Number of female employees who voluntarily resign Persons 2653 1847 1886
Number of employees dismissed Persons 904 914 1244
Number of male employees dismissed Persons 608 560 797
Number of female employees dismissed Persons 296 354 447
Turnover rate of employees aged below 30 % 8.70 6.84 7.07
Turnover rate of employees aged 30-50 % 1.82 1.07 1.18
Turnover rate of employees aged over 50 % 0.21 0.14 0.13
Turnover rate of male employees within the year % 2.64 1.78 1.88
Turnover rate of female employees within the year % 2.75 1.95 2.02
Low-carbon developmentSpecial investment in energy conservation and 
emission reductionRMB billion 0.1 0.104 0.123
Energy consumption per unit of information flow5Kg standard coal/TB 3.71 3.48 2.83
Petrol consumption5Thousand tons 42.1 41.75 40.5
Diesel consumption5Thousand tons 13.87 13.74 11.2
Natural gas consumption5Thousand m311145.2 7858.5 5423
Electricity consumption5Billion KWH 15.066 15.81 17.22
Water consumption Thousand tons 18573.1 18095 14990
Density of water consumption5Tons/RMB million 64.35 61.51 47.21
Coal consumption5Thousand tons 98.5 94 23
Energy conservation5Thousand tons 169.2 172.8 245
Greenhouse gas emission Million tons 13.13 13.2 14.23
Total direct emission of GHG (category I) Million tons 0.37 0.39 0.2
Total indirect emission of GHG (category II) Million tons 12.76 12.81 14.03
Carbon emission intensity Tons/RMB million 45.13 45.40 46.6
Sulphur dioxide emission5Thousand tons 0.07 0.04 0.01
Recycling upon scrappage and disposal RMB billion 0.621 0.965 0.733
Scrappage and disposal of cables Thousand tons — 155 37.3
Scrappage and disposal of battery Thousand tons — 10.2 11.3
Scrappage and disposal of general materials Thousand tons — 10.9 24.7
Compliance 
managementCompliance training sessions Times 1920 2514 4580
Participant attending the compliance training Thousand persons 248 245 243
Production safety training sessions Times 40 87 93
Coverage rate of production safety training % 100 100 100
Community 
responsibilityNumber of registered volunteers Persons 43873 47930 55006
Participants in volunteer activities Person-times 50412 55004 58095
Credit rating1Grade AAA AAA AAA
Total tax paid RMB billion 7.889 5.25 6.59
Employment creation Persons 10869 9913 10652
Total donation RMB thousand 11040 2230 6374
Note:
1.United Credit Ratings Co., Ltd. and China Chengxin International Credit Rating Co., Ltd. granted China United Network Communications Corporation Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, AAA credit rating.2.Data in the report: The data and information disclosed in this report mainly sourced from relevant data collection systems and relevant statistical statements inside our company and cases about corporate social 
responsibility practice submitted by provincial subsidiaries. There is no material change in relation to the methods used for prepping the disclosure. The 2020 data quoted in this report are final statistical data. In case of 
any discrepancy between the financial data herein and those in annual report, the annual report shall prevail. The monetary unit adopted in this report is RMB.
3.Please refer to the Description to the Report for the details of the report reference standards.4.Quality assurance: The Board of Directors and all directors undertake that the information disclosed in the report is authentic, complete and correct, with no false record or misleading statement.5.Data methodologies for 2018-2020 were adjusted and unified according to the relevant requirements.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.79
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
79
 HONORS AND RECOGNITION
• China Unicom ranked 290th in “Fortune Global 500” for the year 2020.
• China Unicom was rated as “2019-2020 Excellent Information Disclosure (Grade A)” by Shanghai Stock Exchange, and was awarded “Social 
Responsibility Award” in “14th Chinese Listed Company Valuation Poll” by Securities Times.
• China Unicom ranked top in IR Magazine Awards, and was honoured with “Best Overall Investor Relations (Large Cap)”, “Best in 
Communication Sector” and “Best in Hong Kong” at the “IR magazine Awards — Greater China 2020”.
• China Unicom was voted “Asia’s No.1 Most Honored Telecom Company ”, “Asia’s Best ESG (Telecoms)” and “Asia’s Best IR Team (Telecoms)”
 
in "2020 All-Asia Executive Team" ranking organised by Institutional Investor.
• China Unicom was awarded “Most Outstanding Company in Asia — Telecommunication Services Sector” and the “Overall Most Outstanding 
Company in Hong Kong” in the “Asia’s Outstanding Companies Poll 2020” organised by Asiamoney.
• China Unicom was awarded "Best Corporate Governance in Asia", “Best Managed Company in China — 1st”, “Best Corporate Governance 
in 
China — 1st”, “Best Environmental Stewardship in China — 1st”, “Most Committed to Social Causes in China — 1st” and “Best Investor Relations in 
China — 1st” in "Asia’s Best Managed Companies Poll 2020" organised by FinanceAsia.
• China Unicom was accredited with the following corporate governance awards in the 10th Asian Excellence Award 2020 held by Corporate 
Governance: Asia’s Best CSR, Asia’s Best CEO, Asia’s Best CFO, and Best Investor Relations Company.
• The Weibo account of customer service and WeChat a
ccount of China Unicom were awarded “Most Influential New Media  Secondary Account 
of Central State-owned Enterprises in 2020” by the News Center of SASAC of the State Council.
• The Poverty Alleviation Office of China Unicom was honoured with “National Advanced Group in Poverty Alleviation”
• Unicom Big Data Co., Ltd. was awarded the honorary title of “National Advanced Group in Fighting Against COVID-19 ” by the Central Committee
 
of CPC, the State Council and the Central Military Commission, “2020 Government Information Product Technology Innovation Award” by China Information Industry Association, and “2020 Innovation Contribution Award of Big Data of Information and Communication” by Big Data magazine, Digital China net and organising committee of China Information, Communication and Big Data Conference.
•
 Unicom Cloud Data Co., Ltd. was awarded the first prize of “Science and Technology Innovation Award in 2020” by the National Internet 
Data 
Center Innovation Technology Alliance, and won the “Pioneer Award of New Infrastructure Operator in China IDC Industry 2020” by data center committee of China Communications Industry Association.
•
 Unicom System Integration Co., Ltd. was awarded “Outstanding Enterprise in Electronic Information Industry 2020” by the Electronic
 
Information Industry Development Conference.
• Unicom Payment Company was awarded “Best Fintech Innovation and Application Award in 2020” by the organising committee of the 14th 
China Payment and Financial Scene (Banking) Conference.
• The “Hope Project of Book Gifting” launched by Unicom Online Information Technology Co., Ltd. was rated as “Top Ten Poverty Alleviation 
Projects of Digital Reading in 2019” by China Audiovisual and Digital Publishing Association.
 DESCRIPTION TO THE REPORT
Reporting Period From January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020, with some sections exceeding the aforesaid period.
Release frequency The corporate social responsibility report of China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited is an annual report.
Organisational coverageThe report covers China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited and its subsidiaries. For the convenience of expression, “China Unicom”, “the 
Company” and “We” are used respectively in this report, with some sections exceeding the aforesaid period.
ReferencesGuiding Opinions on Better Fulfilling  Social Responsibilities of State-owned Enterprises, The State-owned Assets Supervision and 
Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC);Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact;Guidelines for preparation of Report on Performance of Corporate Social Responsibility, Shanghai Stock Exchange;Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide, HKEX;Guidelines for Preparation of Social Responsibility Report, AQSIQ and SAC;Guidelines for Preparation of China Enterprise Social Responsibility Report (CASS-CSR4.0), Chinese Academy of Social Sciences;Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Latest Edition), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI);Social Responsibility Management System of China Information and Communication Industry Enterprises, China Association of Communications Enterprises.
Clarification  about the 
dataThe 2020 data quoted in this report are final statistical data. In case of any discrepancy between the financial  data herein and those in 
annual report, the annual report shall prevail.
Quality assuranceThe Board of Directors and all directors undertake that the information disclosed in the report is authentic, complete and correct, with no false record or misleading statement.24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.80
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
80Language versions and 
availabilityThe Corporate Social Responsibility Report of the Company is issued in both Chinese and English and provided in electronic copy.
Website: https://www.chinaunicom.com.hk.
Contact informationAddress: China Unicom Corporate Development Department/Legal Department, No. 21 Jinrong Street, Xicheng District, BeijingZip Code: 100033Fax: 86-10-66258674Email: yangwei3@chinaunicom.cn
 INDEXES
 Ten Principles of the Global Compact
No. Indexes Page Disclosed
Human rights
Principle 1Enterprises should respect and maintain the internationally recognised 
human rightsP24–25e57e60
Principle 2 Never participate in any behavior that disregard for or abuses human rights P24–25e57e60
Labour standards
Principle 3Enterprises should maintain the freedom of association, and accept the rights of collective bargainingP60–61
Principle 4 Elimination all forms of forced labour radically P60e63
Principle 5 Eliminate child labour P60
Principle 6 Put an end to any discrimination in employment and industry P57e60e63
Environment
Principle 7 Companies take precautions to deal with environmental challenges P46–47
Principle 8 Take the initiative to increase the responsibility of environmental protection P46–47
Principle 9Encourage the development and promotion of environmentally friendly technologyP46–47
Anti-Corruption
Principle 10Enterprises should oppose all forms of corruption, including extortion and briberyP44
 GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards
No. Page Disclosed
Organisation profile
102-1 P6
102-2 P6
102-3 P80
102-4 P6
102-5 P6e9
102-6 P6
102-7 P6e57e78No. Page Disclosed
102-8 P57e78
102-9 P67–69
102-10 P6e9e67–69
102-11 P43–44e68
102-12 P79
102-13 P53e79
Strategy
102-14 P4–5No. Page Disclosed
102-15 P4–5d43–44
Ethics and integrity
102-16 P6
102-17 P24e43
Governance
102-18 P7–9e74
102-19 P74
102-20 P74No. Page Disclosed
102-21 P76
102-22 P7–9
102-23 P8–9
102-24 P7–9
102-25 P7–9
102-26 P73–74
102-27 P73–74
102-28 information not available24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.81
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
81
No. Page Disclosed
102-29 P73–75
102-30 P43–44e68
102-31 P73–75
102-32 P73–75
102-33 P74e76
102-34 P74e76
102-35 P60
102-36 P60
102-37 P76
102-38 confidentiality r estrictions
102-39 confidentiality r estrictions
Participation by stakeholders
102-40 P76
102-41 P78
102-42 P73
102-43 P73–76
102-44 P76
Reporting practice
102-45 P79
102-46 P73–74
102-47 P74
102-48 P79
102-49 P73–74
102-50 P74
102-51 P79
102-52 P79
102-53 P80
102-54 P79
102-55 P80–81
102-56 information not available No. Page Disclosed
GRI103: Management methodology
103-1 P6–71
103-2 P6–71
103-3 P6–71
GRI201: Economic benefits
Management methodology P44–46
201-1 P77
201-2 P10–15,39–40
201-3 P60–63
201-4 Note 1
GRI202: Market presence
Management methodology P57–64
202-1 P60
202-2 P25e57–58
GRI203: Indirect economic impact
Management methodology P27–31
203-1 P27–31
203-2 P27–31
GRI204: Procurement practice
Management methodology P25e67–68
204-1 P25e67–68
GRI205: Anti-corruption
Management methodology P44
205-1 P44
205-2 P44
205-3 P44
GRI302: Energy
Management methodology P46–47
302-1 P78
302-2 information not availableNo. Page Disclosed
302-3 P78
302-4 P78
302-5 P46–47e78
GRI305: Emission
Management methodology P46–47
305-1 P78
305-2 P78
305-3 P78
305-4 P78
305-5 P78
305-6 N/A
305-7 N/A
GRI308: Supplier environmental assessment
Management methodology P25e67–69
308-1 P25e67–69
308-2 P25e67–69
GRI401: Employment
Management methodology P57–63
401-1 P57e78
401-2 P60–63
401-3 P60e63
GRI404: Training and education
Management methodology P58–60
404-1 P58e78
404-2 P58–60
404-3 P58–60
GRI405: Diversity and equal access
Management methodology P57–60
405-1 P57e78
405-2 P57–60No. Page Disclosed
GRI406: Anti-discrimination
Management methodology P60
406-1 P60
GRI407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Management methodology P60–61
407-1 P60–61e78
GRI413: Local communities
Management methodology P10–25e40–41
413-1 P10–25e40–41
413-2 P24–25
GRI414: Supplier assessment for impacts on society
Management methodology P24–25e68–69
414-1 P24–25e68–69
414-2 P24–25e68
GRI416: Customer health and safety
Management methodology P27–38e46–47
416-1 P27–38e46–47
416-2 P31
GRI417: Marketing and labelling
Management methodology P33
417-1 P33
417-2 P34e36
417-3 P34e36
GRI418: Customer privacy
Management methodology P31
418-1 P31
GRI419: Socio-economic compliance
Management methodology P24–25e43–44
419-1 P24–25e43–44e78
Notes:
1. For further details about 102-24, 102-25, 201-4, please refer to the Annual Report of the Company.
2. Material gases such as ozone depleting substances (ODS), nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx) cited in 305-6, 305-7 are not the major emissions of the Company.
3. Relevant systems or processes as described in 102-28 and 102-56 will be gradually established.
 Chinese Academy of Social Sciences CASS4.0
Index Page Disclosed
I. Preface (P series)
(P1) Reporting specifications
P1.1 P72–76
P1.2 P79
P1.3 P79
(P2) Message from senior management
P2.1 P4–5
P2.2 P4–5
(P3) Focus of responsibility
P3.1 P72–76
P3.2 P72–76
(P4) Corporate profile
P4.1 P6–7
P4.2 P6
P4.3 P6eP33–36
P4.4 P77–78Index Page Disclosed
P4.5 P44–46
II. Responsibility management (G series)
(G1) Vision
G1.1 P6
G1.2 P73
(G2) Strategy
G2.1 P73–74
G2.2 P73–75
G2.3 P74–76
G2.4 P73–75
(G3) Organisation
G3.1 P74–76
G3.2 P74
G3.3 P74
(G4) System
G4.1 P75Index Page Disclosed
G4.2 P75
G4.3 P75–76
 (G5) Culture
G5.1 P75–76
G5.2 P75
(G6) Participation
G6.1 P76
G6.2 P75
G6.3 P75
III. Market performance (M series))
(M1) Responsibility to shareholders
M1.1 P6–9
M1.2 P6–9
M1.3 P44
M1.4 P43–44e76
M1.5 P76Index Page Disclosed
M1.6 P77–78
M1.7 P77–78
M1.8 P77–78
(M2) Responsibility to customers
M2.1 P27–30eP37–38
M2.2 P35–37
M2.3 P77
M2.4 P49–55
M2.5 P49e77
M2.6 P53e77
M2.7 P49–55
M2.8 P34
M2.9 P36–38
M2.10 P34e36
M2.11 P35–36
M2.12 P36e46–4724071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.82
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
82Index Page Disclosed
M2.13 P31
M2.14 P35–36
M2.15 P36
M2.16 P36e77
M2.17 {
M2.18 P36e77
(M3) Responsibility to business partners
M3.1 P43–44
M3.2 P43
M3.3 P70–71
M3.4 P70–71
M3.5 P53
M3.6 P27e50
M3.7 P67–69
M3.8 P68–69
M3.9 P67–68
M3.10 P67–69
M3.11 P67–69
M3.12 P68
M3.13 P68
M3.14 P67–69
M3.15 P67–69
M3.16 P67–69
IV. Social performance (S series)
(S1) Responsibility to government
S1.1 P43–44
S1.2 P44
S1.3 P78
S1.4 P44–46
S1.5 P24–25e57
S1.6 P57
(S2) Responsibility to employees
S2.1 P57e78Index Page Disclosed
S2.2 P60
S2.3 P78
S2.4 P60–61
S2.5 P78
S2.6 P60
S2.7 P60
S2.8 P60
S2.9 P60–61
S2.10 P60
S2.11 P60
S2.12 P62–63
S2.13 P62
S2.14 P57–59
S2.15 P58e78
S2.16 P57–59
S2.17 P60e63
S2.18 P63
S2.19 P60
S2.20 P78
(S3) Safe production
S3.1 P63
S3.2 P63
S3.3 P63
S3.4 P63e78c
S3.5 P63e78
S3.6 P63
S3.7 {c
(S4) Responsibility to community
S4.1 P23–25
S4.2 P24–25
S4.3 P25
S4.4 P25
S4.5 P25Index Page Disclosed
S4.6 P16–21
S4.7 P25
S4.8 P41e78
S4.9 P16–21
S4.10 P21
S4.11 P21e78
S4.12 P16–21
S4.13 P17
S4.14 P17
V. Environmental performance (E series)
(E1) Green management
E1.1 P46
E1.2 P46–47
E1.3 P46–47
E1.4 P46–47
E1.5 P46
E1.6 P47
E1.7 P46–47
E1.8 P46
E1.9 P46
E1.10 P78
E1.11 P78
E1.12 P47
(E2) Green production
E2.1 P46–47
E2.2 P47
E2.3 P46–47
E2.4 P78
E2.5 P78
E2.6 P47
E2.7 P78
E2.8 P46–47
E2.9 P78Index Page Disclosed
E2.10 P78
E2.11 P47
E2.12 P78
E2.13 P46–47
E2.14 P78
E2.15 P46–47
E2.16 P78
E2.17 P47
E2.18 P47e78
E2.19 P47
E2.20 {
E2.21 P47
E2.22 P47
E2.23 P46–47
E2.24 P46–47
E2.25 P78
(E3) Green operation
E3.1 P47
E3.2 P47
E3.3 P46–47
E3.4 P46–47
E3.5 P46–47
E3.6 {
VI. Report appendix (A series)
(A1) P73
(A2) P77–78
(A3) P75e79
(A4) P75e79
(A5) P80–82
(A6) P83
Index Page Disclosed
A1 P46–47e78
A1.1 P78
A1.2 P78
A1.3 See note 1
A1.4 See note 1
A1.5 P46–47
A1.6 P46–47
A2 P46–47
A2.1 P78
A2.2 P78
A2.3 P46–47Index Page Disclosed
A2.4 P46
A2.5 See note 2
A3 P46–47
A3.1 P46–47
B1 P57e60
B1.1 P57
B1.2 P78
B2 P63
B2.1 P63
B2.2 P63
B2.3 P15e60e62–63Index Page Disclosed
B3 P58–59
B3.1 P58e78
B3.2 P58e78
B4 P60
B4.1 P60
B4.2 P60
B5 P44e47e67–68
B5.1 P68
B5.2 P44e47e67–68
B6 P31–34
B6.1 See note 3Index Page Disclosed
B6.2 P35–36
B6.3 P53e77
B6.4 See note 3
B6.5 P31
B7 P44
B7.1 P44
B7.2 P44
B8 P21–23e38–41
B8.1 P21–23e38–41
B8.2 P39–41e78
Notes:
1. As China Unicom is a massive entity and its business covers a wide geographical region, currently the Company is not able to produce full statistics over its waste production (including hazardous and non-hazardous categories) as prescribed in A1.3 and A1.4. Upon identification of material topics, we mainly report on the recycling 
and reuse of main resources utilised by the Company in the course of operation  
including cables, battery, terminals and comprehensive supplies. The Company will establish related data collection system in the future.
2. As the Company mainly engages in the provision of telecommunication services, packaging material used for the finished products as prescribed in A2.5 is not applicable to the Company’s business practice.
3. The index of ‘product recycling’ is not applicable to the actual business of the Company. Through the identification of substantive 
agenda, the Company mainly reported on the maintenance of network 
information security, the protection of emergency communication, and the protection of customer rights and interests in accordance with the law. SEHK ESG Reporting Guide24071 (China Unicom_CSR) 2020 Eng \ 31/05/2021 \ M22 \ P.83
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
83
 FEEDBACK
Dear Reader,
Thank you for reading 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited, which is the fifth corporate social 
responsibility report of China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited. In order to better provide you and other stakeholders with valuable information while 
facilitating the supervision of social responsibility works as well as enhancing the capability and standard of performing social responsibility, we would like to have your precious opinion and suggestion regarding this report.
Email: yangwei3@chinaunicom.cn
Fax: 86-10-66258674Address: China Unicom Corporate Development Department, No. 21 Jinrong Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, China, 100033
●
 Your capacity:
A. Customer  B. Shareholder  C. Government  D. Community  E. Business partner  F. Media  G. Social organisation
H. Others (Please specify) 
● Overall evaluation of China Unicom’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report:
A. Excellent  B. Good  C. Fair D. Not Satisfactory  E. Poor
● Overall evaluation of China Unicom’s performance in economic, social and environmental responsibilities:
Economic responsibility A. Excellent  B. Good  C. Fair  D. Not Satisfactor y E. Poor
Social responsibility A. Excellent  B. Good  C. Fair  D. Not Satisfactor
y E. Poor
Environmental responsibility A. Excellent  B. Good  C. Fair  D. Not Satisfactor
y E. Poor
● Response and disclosure in this report in connection with the concerns of stakeholders?
A. Excellent  B. Good  C. Fair D. Not Satisfactory  E. Poor
●  Overall evaluation of China Unicom’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report in terms of the clarity, accuracy and integrity of the 
disclosure of 
information, data and index:
Clarity A. Excellent  B. Good  C. Fair  D. Not Satisfactor y E. Poor
Accuracy A. Excellent  B. Good  C. Fair  D. Not Satisfactor
y E. Poor
Integrity A. Excellent  B. Good  C. Fair  D. Not Satisfactor
y E. Poor
● Readability of this report in terms of content arrangement and layout design?
Content arrangement A. Excellent  B. Fair  C. Poor
Layout design A. Excellent  B. Fair  C. Poor
● Any other opinion/suggestion for our work and report of corporate social responsibility?
Thank you for your feedback and precious time.CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
HKEx: 0762
CHINA UNICOM (HONG KONG) LIMITED
75th Floor, The Center, 99 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong
www.chinaunicom.com.hkCHINA UNICOM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020
CORPORATE
SOCIALRESPONSIBILITYREPORT
DIGITS     WALK WITH RESPONSIBILITIES