Communication on Progress 
for Sustainable Development
Sinopec Corp. 2019Report Information CONTENTS
Economic Performance
Environmental PerformanceSocial Performance 77
  77  78  80
82
90Letter from the Chairman
About Us
Sustainability 
Governance02
Topic 1: Green Enterprise Campaign
Topic 2: Technological Innovation and Intelligent ConstructionTopic 3: Supply of Green Energy and Chemical ProductsTopic 4: Targeted Poverty AlleviationTopic 5: Concerted Efforts to Fight Against the COVID-19 Outbreak14
  14  20  24  26  28
Low-Carbon 
Development
Climate Change
Energy Transition32
37Environmental 
Protection
Environmental  Management
Air Emissions Solid WasteWater ResourcesLand ResourcesOil SpillsBiodiversity Conservation42
  44  46  47  48  50  50  5152
  54  56  56  57  57  
Compliance Operation
Transparent Compliance ManagementAnti-corruption SystemEnhancing Anti-corruption Awareness58
  60    61  61Respecting Human 
Rights
Employee Protection
Occupational HealthCareer DevelopmentCaring for Employees 62
 
  64
  65  66  67Contributing to Society
Value Chain ManagementWith CustomersPromoting Industry DevelopmentCommunity EngagementPhilanthropy68
  
  70
  71  74  75  76Safety 
Management
Production Safety
Contractor SafetyLogistics SafetyInformation SafetySecurity
04
12
30The 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development (hereinafter referred to "COP") is the 14th 
sustainability report of China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (hereinafter referred to as "Sinopec Corp.", "the Company" or "We"). The COP introduces our efforts in promoting economic growth, social development and environmental protection, and highlights on how we responded to stakeholder expectations and concerns in 2019.
Report Perimeters
This COP covers our business activities from 1 January to 31 December, 2019, while content under “Topic 5: Concerted Efforts to Fight Against the COVID-19 Outbreak is from 2020. The information herein comes from internal data, materials from our subsidiaries, and relevant public information. Unless otherwise specified, all monetary figures shown in this COP are expressed in RMB (yuan).
Unless otherwise specified, the data in this COP covers the data of Sinopec Corp. and its wholly-owned and 
controlled subsidiaries. 
The Company's Board of Directors approved this COP on March 27, 2020. The COP is available in Chinese 
and English. If there is any conflict or inconsistency, the Chinese version shall prevail. The COP can be    downloaded at the website: http://www.sinopec.com/listco/en
References
This COP is prepared in accordance with Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the criteria of the Global Compact Advanced Communication on Progress , the Guideline on Environmental Infor -
mation Disclosure issued by Listed Companies of Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) , and the Environmental, 
Social and Governance Reporting Guide  issued by Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEx) and with reference to 
the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards)  issued by the GRI Global Sustainability Standards 
Board (GSSB). Some of the information is also prepared with reference to the recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) .
Disclaimer
This COP includes certain forward-looking statements with respect to the results of our business operations and certain plans and conditions. All statements that address activities, events or developments that we expect will or may occur in the future, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements and by their nature involve risk and uncertainty. This means that actual results may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statement due to a number of factors and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are made by March 27, 2020 and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these for -
ward-looking statements unless required by an appropriate regulatory authority.【Featured Stories 】
【Performance Report 】
【Index 】
【Feedback 】Letter from Chairman
Dear Friends,
On behalf of the Board of Sinopec Corp., 
I would like to extend our heartfelt thanks for your continued  attention and support.
Over the past year, we have seen world-
wide efforts aiming at realizing the 17 goals, such as no poverty, climate action, and affordable and clean energy, that put forward by the United Nations 2030 Agen-da, and striving to achieve the sustainable development of mankind. Adhering to the development concepts of innovation, coordination, greenness, openness, and sharing, China is committed to building a prosperous, strong, democratic, ci-vilised, harmonious and beautiful socialist modernised country by the middle of this century, and actively implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develop-ment and contributing to realizing the Sustainable Development Goals. As a participant, a contributor, a facilitator and a beneficiary of global economic and social development, as well as a LEAD member within the United Nations Global Compact, Sinopec Corp. implements the new devel-opment concepts, adheres to high-quality development, and is firmly committed to low-carbon, green, safe,responsible and sustainable development, and has made progresses in all aspects in 2019. 
As for the business development, we 
pressed ahead with high efficiency ex-ploration and profit-oriented development and achieved tangible results in increasing reserves, maintaining oil production, in-creasing gas output and reducing cost. As the result, the percentage of natural gas in total oil and gas production increased continuously which helped enhance the capacity of the Company in clean energy supply. We provide gasoline and diesel products that meet the National VI emis-sions standard, and actively respond to the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) 2020 requirements to increase the pro-duction capacity of low sulphur maritime fuel oil. We accelerated the development in the fields of high-performance carbon fibre and high-end synthetic materials to upgrade to petrochemical products that are environmental-friendly and low-car-bon. We accelerated the development of comprehensive service and intelligent op-erations of our service stations to provide consumers with convenient full-service. We also actively expanded international cooperation, accelerated the development of e-commerce platforms, and continued to foster new business.
As for the green and low-carbon de-
velopment, we proactively responded to climate change, rapidly grew our natural gas business, continued to produce bio-jet fuel and bio-diesel, constructed new charging stations, promoted photovoltaic power generation and the utilisation of hydrogen, joint the International hydrogen Council and cooperated with hydrogen company, striving to provide clean energy for society; continued to implement the Energy Efficiency Improvement Plan and the Green Enterprise Campaign, continu-ously reducing the comprehensive energy consumption per RMB10,000 of output; strengthened our greenhouse gas emis-sion management and accelerated the research on carbon capture and storage technology. We improved the protection of atmosphere, water and soil, further lowering the discharge of major pollutants and the volume fresh water withdrawal for industrial use, and making sure 100% of our hazardous wastes were disposed properly. We attached great importance to biodiversity conservation, and made as-sessment of ecological hazards to reduce the impact on the ecological environment. We joined the Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW) and worked together with partners to actively cope with plastic pol-lution and support the development of a circular economy of plastics.
As for safety development, adhering to 
the principle that “development should not come at the cost of safety”, we strength-ened safety management, conducted regular safety risk assessments to identify and eliminate safety hazards, improved emergency management, and ensured stable production and operation through-out the year. We enhanced safety training and capacity building for our contractors, and worked together with our carriers to explore the supply models for hazardous chemical materials to ensure logistics safety throughout the process. We im-proved security management to ensure the safety of employees. We also strength-en information security management, and established a network security risk man-agement platform to ensure the security of our information facilities and data.
As for technological innovation, we 
implemented the innovation-driven de-velopment strategy, formulated mid- and long-term plans and actions, promoted the establishing of joint innovation platforms, organised research on key technologies, and achieved new breakthroughs in a number of key research and development projects. In 2019, we received one second prize of National Technology Invention Award and six second prizes of National Science and Technology Progress Award, and a total of 4,076 patent applications were granted. We accelerated the in-telligent upgrade of the industrial chain through building intelligent oil and gas fields, intelligent factories, and intelligent service stations for promoting the dig-italised, network-based and intelligent upgrade of our operations. We also partic-ipated in industry development, leveraging our expertise and  advantages to promote industry innovation and development in terms of scientific research, industry standard formulation, and industry-wide sharing and communication.
As for contribution to the society,  ad-
hering to the people-oriented concept, we strengthened the talent troop construction and supported the career development of employees, improved the assessment and management of employees’ physical and mental health, and advocated for decent work. We continued our support for the targeted poverty alleviation efforts and carried out a variety of poverty alleviation projects that customised to local condi -
tions, such as poverty alleviation through industrial development, through education, and through providing better healthcare, etc., with three poverty-stricken counties be lifted out of poverty. We also continued the Sinopec Lifeline Express Programme and the Warm Stations Programme to help people in need, which were highly rec-ognised in society. During the COVID-19 epidemic in early 2020, we worked to-gether with our stakeholders to fulfil our corporate citizen responsibilities during this dire time. We took prompt actions to donate funds and supplies, leverage our capabilities to produce medical supplies and set up production lines with partners to produce face masks, one of the most urgently needed supplies. We also took advantage of our network of service sta-tions and EasyJoy convenience stores, to ensure stable supply of fuel and gas, and provide a safe and convenient way for people to purchase daily necessities without physical contact.
Looking ahead to 2020, we will continue 
optimising the system and capacity for corporate governance, actively promote structural adjustment, transformation and upgrading, consolidate the foundation for industrial development, and strive to build a clean, efficient, low-carbon, and circular green enterprise, and provide more clean energy and products to drive social devel-opment and satisfy people’s needs. We will make green development as our core competence, aiming at achieving sus-tainable and healthy development, con-tributing to countries where we operate as well as our shareholders, customers, employees and value chain partners. We cherish your suggestions for the sustain-able development of the Company, and look forward to working together with you to build a sustainable world-class energy and chemical company, and help provide a better life and better future for everyone.
Zhang Yuzhuo
Chairman
March 27, 2020
02 03
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentAbout Us
Company Profile Core Values
Exploration and 
Production
ChemicalsRefining
International 
TradeMarketing and 
Distribution
Technology 
R&DSinopec Corp.’s main oil and gas 
assets are located in China, and we also participate in four joint projects overseas, including Taihu in Russia, Block 18 in Angola, CIR in Kazakh-stan, and Mansarovar in Colombia respectively.
As of the end of 2019, our proven 
oil and natural gas reserves totalled 1,741 million barrels and 7,225 billion cubic feet respectively.
Sinopec Corp.’s main petrochemical 
products include synthetic resin, synthetic fibre and synthetic rubber. We invest a joint venture project in Russia.
We produced 12.49 million tonnes of 
ethylene in 2019.Sinopec Corp.’s primary facilities are located in China, and we invest a refining joint venture project in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia.
In 2019, we processed 248.52 million 
tonnes of crude oil.
Sinopec Corp. engages in the inter -
national trade of crude oil, refined 
oil products, chemical products, and technologies. 
We are the largest trader of crude 
oil in China, and we imported 202 million tonnes of crude oil in 2019.We own 21 wharfs of more than 200,000 DWT, with a total capacity of 350 million tonnes.Sinopec Corp. has a comprehen -
sive refined oil products distribution network consisting of 30,702 service stations, and the total issuance of fuel cards reached 168 million.
In 2019, the non-fuel business 
realized increase both in the sales volume and the profit.
Sinopec Corp. has the capacity and 
technology to build refining facilities at the ten-million tonnage scale, and ethylene facilities at the million tonnage scale.
We have four State Key Labora -
tories, six National Engineering 
Research Centres, four National Energy R&D (Experiment) Centres, and six State-Certified Enterprise Technology Centres.Our diversified portfolio, including energy resources such as crude oil and natural gas, refined oil products such as gasoline, diesel and kerosene, and petrochemical products with thousands of varieties, contributes to social and economic development and satisfies the people’s ever-growing needs for a better life;Sinopec Corp. fulfils its responsibilities as a global corporate citizen by conducting business that 
serves society: 
We operate honestly and pay taxes in accordance with the laws to contribute to national revenue and boost social development and prosperity;We strive to realise sustainable returns for our shareholders and implement a stable and continuous dividend pay-out policy;
We focus on leading and cooperating with our partners along industrial chain, aiming to enhance sustainability and achieve win-win results together with them; We protect employee rights, provide an encouraging working environment and career development channels, that strive to promote decent work; and
We actively engage with local com -
munities, participate in local economic development projects, ensure operation safety, protect the environment, support the disadvantaged groups and people in need, and share the benefit of our corporate development with society.Core Values Vision Mission
People, Responsibility, Integrity, 
Excellence, Innovation, 
CollaborationBuilding a world leading energy 
and chemical companyPowering a better life
04 05
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentPerformance in 2019
Revenue(RMB)
Social contributions (RMB)2Environmental compliance rate of 
new projects (%)
Note:
1. In accordance with the accounting standards for business enterprises of the Peoples’ Republic of China (CASs).2.The definition of social contribution is calculated in accordance with the SSE’s 
Guidelines on Listed Companies' Environmental Information Disclosure.2,966.2 billion
4 62.8 billion 402,20631,003
100  % 0.4  %
0.48 %0.494
170.69
1,263 thousands tonnes 3972,376
100 %
100 % 99 % 99 %57.6  billion
15 ,539 million
209  million 317.7  billionNet profits attributable 
to shareholders (RMB)1
R&D investment (RMB)
Taxes and fees paid (RMB) Donations (RMB)
Total number of employees Ethics training coverage (%)
Safety training coverage (%) Occupational health check-up coverage (%)Health check-up and health file coverage (%)Number of registered poverty people supportedPatients cured under Sinopec Lifeline Express Programme
Consumption of comprehensive energy per RMB10,000 of output
Total GHG emission
Methane recovery CO
2 capturemillion tonnes CO2-equivalentdecreased by 
year-on-yeardecreased by year-on-yeartonnes of standard coal-equivalent
million cubic metres
06 07
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development17
2115
2522116
20
18
4 3
167
1
128
13
2 5
241910
14
9
23Enterprise with Outstanding Contribution 
in Energy Conservation and 
Emission Reduction
Outstanding Volunteer Service Project of 
State EnterprisesMateriality Analysis
Chinese Model of Low Carbon Performance 
and Responsible Enterprise
Special Contribution Award of the Lifeline 
Express Programme Ecological and Environmental Pioneer 
Best Volunteer Service Project of ChinaLevel-A rating in the SSE’s 2018-2019 
Information Disclosure Assessment of 
Listed Companies
Top 50 Targeted Poverty Alleviation Award of 
Chinese EnterprisesBest Defence Unit of the 2019 Internet Security 
ExerciseRecognitions and Awards Stakeholder EngagementImportance to stakeholders
Importance to Sinopec CorpIn 2019, the Company continued to identify, evaluate and screen sustainable development issues and material issues that are important to both the 
Company and its stakeholder groups are disclosed in the COP report with priority. 
Identified policy trends and development op-portunities related to the energy and chemical industry by studying macro policies, focusing on industry highlights, and benchmarking with the sustainability practice of our industry peers. Identified 25 issues that are important to the Company and its stakeholder groups with reference to the Company’s development strategy and plans.Obtained inputs from key external stake -
holders such as investors and sustain -
ability experts, and inputs from employee representatives, on the importance of each issue based on their assessment. Constructed a two-dimensional mate -
riality matrix based on the assessment results to prioritise the issues based on their perceived importance. The high-im -
portance issues are covered in this COP report with priority.
Identification Evaluation Screening
Social
Tackle climate change
Develop low-carbon productsDevelop renewable energyImprove energy efficiencyControl emissions Reduce resource consumptionResource recyclingBiodiversity conservation Support human rights initiatives Occupational health and safetyEmployee training and develop-mentResponsible supply chainImprove service qualitySupport targeted poverty alleviationSupport social welfare
8
9
10
1112
13
14
1519
20
21
2223
24
25Governance
Compliance 
Improve business performanceOptimise corporate governanceScientific research and technological innovationAccelerate intelligent transformationEnsure energy supplySafety managementStrengthen risk managementOperation transparencyIntegrity and anti-corruption1
234
5
67
161718
Environment
08 09
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentStakeholder EngagementSinopec Corp.’s Actions to Implement the SDGs
The trust and support of our stakeholders are of fundamental importance to the sustainable development of Sinopec Corp. The Company has 
established an open communication mechanism with its stakeholders and continuously optimises it. The Company strives to grow together with its stakeholders to jointly promote the high-quality sustainable development to achieve economic growth, environmental friendliness and social harmony .
Stakeholders Key Communication Topics Communication Channels
Government and RegulatorsOperation compliance Safety managementGuarantee energy supplyImprove business performanceRespond to climate changeSupport targeted poverty alleviationScientific research and technological innovationIntegrity and anti-corruptionDaily communication and reportingDiscussion and seminarProject approvalGovernment supervision and regulation
ShareholdersImprove business performanceEnsure shareholders’ returnTransformation, upgrading and developmentStrengthen risk controlOptimise corporate governanceTackle climate changeIntegrity and anti-corruptionInformation disclosure required by lawPerformance release and meetingTeleconference and online interactionInvestor hotlineInvestor research
CustomersImprove quality of serviceScientific research and technological innovationImprove energy efficiencyExpand low carbon productsDaily service communicationCustomer visitsQuestionnaire surveyWebsite, WeChat and other online media
EmployeesSafety managementRespect human rightsWorkplace health and safetyEmployee career developmentEmployees’ representative meetingAnnual commendationRegular trainingsCorporate cultural activitiesWebsite, WeChat and other online media
CommunitiesStrengthen risk controlSafety managementRespect human rightsSupport targeted poverty alleviationSupport social welfareCorporate philanthropyOn-site researchCommunity communication activityMedia communication
EnvironmentRespond to climate changeImprove energy efficiencyCarbon emission managementReduce leakage and escapeResource recyclingLand resource managementBiodiversity conservationProject environmental and social risk as-sessmentEnvironmental performance monitoring and disclosureRespond to external investigationsSupporting targeted poverty alleviation by providing 
RMB190 million in direct financial support, and purchasing RMB57 million and selling RMB283 million worth of agricultural products from pover -
ty-stricken areas. As of the end of 2019, three of our designated poverty alleviation counties, Yuexi and Yingshang of Anhui and Bange of Tibet had been lifted out of poverty.
Developing planting, breeding and other indus -
tries in rural areas based on local conditions, and 
improving infrastructure in rural areas to enhance agricultural productivity.
Protecting the occupational, physical and mental 
health of employees; improving the accessibility to 
medical resources with programmes such as the 
Sinopec Lifeline Express, remote medical care, doctor training, and support for local hospitals. 
Providing skills training for employees and 
communities members where we operate; investing RMB 23.48 million to upgrade educational facilities, provide education aid, and improve the education conditions in poverty-stricken areas. 
Upholding gender equality, establishing the Female 
Employees Committee, respecting rights female employees, and forbidding gender discrimination in recruiting and promotion; protecting the pregnancy and maternity rights and caring for the physical and mental health of female employees.
Setting annual water consumption targets, and lowing the annual industrial fresh water withdrawal by 1.1% year-on-year; strengthening waste water recycling and utilisation and ensuring waste water discharged meet standards; and implementing drink
-
ing water safety programme in Dongxiang, Gansu. 
Continuing to increase the percentage of natural gas, 
low sulphur marine fuel oil (LSFO) and new energy businesses. Natural gas accounted 41% of oil and gas production in 2019. Increased LSFO production capacity in ten coastal subsidiaries, generated 6.92 million KWHs of photovoltaic power, produced 3 mil
-
lion tonnes of hydrogen, and built 12 battery charge & change stations.
Supporting local economic development through investing, paying taxes, creating jobs and increasing domestic procurement; providing stable job opportu
-
nities and income, and good working environment; and helping employees of distressed subsidiaries with new job opportunities.
Strengthening R&D, product innovation and structural adjustment, providing green, high-quality energy and chemical products, promoting clean technologies and facilities, and providing industry solutions.Prohibiting child labour and forced labour, and discrimination due to gender, region, religion, nationality, etc.; promoting workplace diversity, and guaranteeing equal opportunities for employees.
Improving transportation and other infrastructure 
in designated poverty alleviation areas; improving emergency response capacity and disasters preparedness; building new energy vehicle charging facilities and hydrogen refuelling stations.
Strengthening HSSE management and ensure 
workplace safety, occupational health and environ -
mental compliance. No occurrence of major safety accident or environmental emergency in 2019.
Setting GHG emission targets, and strengthening 
GHGs management such as methane; imple -
menting Energy Efficiency Improvement Plan and achieved a 0.4% y-o-y reduction of the comprehen -
sive energy consumption per RMB10,000 of output; Transforming towards natural gas and other new energies, and developing alternative energies.
Joined the Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW) 
to protect the marine environment and marine life; strictly preventing oil spill accidents at sea; increasing wastewater recycling, and upgrading wastewater treatment facilities to meet compliance criteria.
Conducting environmental impact assessment 
and adopting targeted ecological protection and restoration measures for new and existing projects; adopting engineering technology with less ecologi -
cal impact.
Improving compliance management and ensuring 
business integrity; strengthening anti-corrup -
tion; and promoting suppliers and contractors to strengthen safety management and environmental protection.
Supporting UN Global Compact and other global 
initiatives; actively participating in international organisations and trade associations, and promot -
ing research collaboration; developing e-commerce platforms such as EPEC and Sinopec Chememall to achieve win-win development of the industrial chain.
10 11
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentSustainability Governance
Board of Directors and the CSR Committee
Board of Directors
Strategy 
Committee
Risk Management 
SystemAudit 
Committee
HSSE Management 
SystemCSR Committee
Social Responsibility 
Management SystemSustainable Development ManagementReporting
CommunicationDecision-making feedbackCoordinated implementationRemuneration 
and Appraisal 
Committee
Anti-corruption 
Management SystemNomination 
Committee
Human Resources 
Management System
Risk Management SystemHSSE Management System
Human Resources Management System
Anti-corruption Management SystemThe Board of Directors is responsible for sustainable development management of the Company. We have established the Social Responsibility 
Management Committee under the Board of Directors to be in charge of approving social responsibility management strategies, plans and annual social responsibility work plans, and report to the Board of Directors for promoting sustainable development of the Company. The current committee is composed of Chairman of the Board, Mr. Zhang Yuzhuo, and the independent non-executive directors, Mr. Tang Min and Mr. Fan Gang. 
The Company released the standards of Safety, Environment and Health Management System in 2001, and its subsidiaries formulated their respective management regulations based on it as well as industry characteristics. In 2018, the Company integrated security into the management system and formulated the Sinopec Corp. HSSE (health, safety, security and environment) management system, and subsequently revised relevant management systems regarding safety responsibility, safety behaviour, safety training, risk management and hazards control, operations, and occupational health, etc. 
The Company has established the HSSE Management Committee and relevant HSSE management bodies at the headquarters and the subsidiaries 
respectively, and included production safety and energy conservation and environmental protection into the performance appraisal indicators for the management team of the Company, whose annual performance bonus would be reduced by 3%, up to 20% of the total, for each point deducted from the indicators. The Company also sets up GHGs emission reduction targets, and includes energy efficiency appraisal and carbon emission appraisal into its project evaluation process. 
Based on the HSSE management system, we have established an emergency management system covering production safety, environmental 
protection, information security and other aspects, and promoted the establishment of emergency command centres in oil field, refining and marketing subsidiaries. Meanwhile, our subsidiaries have established a joint emergency defence mechanism with local authorities, consisting of 13 joint emer -
gency defence zones geographically, which consolidates local resources and carries out joint drills to ensure the coordinated efforts in case of major emergency accidents.
The Company continues to improve its human resources management system and policies and has formed an integrated management system cover -
ing talent development, labour compensation, training development and other management modules. 
The Company continues to optimise its integrity and compliance management system. With an integrity culture of “keeping promises and operating in 
compliance”, we focus on anti-corruption and have formulated a number of anti-corruption management systems and policies. We strive to build an en -
terprise with zero corruption through strictly implementing the punishment and prevention mechanisms for corruption and raising anti-corruption aware -
ness. We have set up the Supervisory Committee, with Chairman of the Board in charge, which is responsible for formulating anti-corruption guidelines and key measures. The Disciplinary Inspection and Supervision Department is responsible for the daily supervision and management of anti-corruption, and reports to the Supervisory Committee regularly.We have paid great attention to risks in the process of sustainable development. The Audit Committee, set up under the Board of Directors, is respon -
sible for reviewing risk management and providing advices to the Board. Moreover, the Comprehensive Risk Management Working Group and relevant departments are established in charge of managing and mitigating risks related to production safety , environmental protection, climate change, finance, 
legal affairs, anti-corruption and overseas security. The Comprehensive Risk Management Working Group convenes meetings regularly to organise the identification and assessment of major and significant risks, determine control measures and formulate solutions. 
In accordance with industry characteristics and our geographic layout, we have set up a risk list with risks from five categories, namely strategy, finance, 
market, operation and legislation. Safety risks, environmental risks, climate-related risks and corresponding management measures and results are detailed in relevant sections of the COP report. Safety first
Environmental protection foremostEnsure physical and mental health of employees
Strict, detailed, effective and consistent implementationTarget ConceptsZero casualty
Zero pollutionZero accident
12 13
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentEstablishing Green Enterprises
Lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets. As China actively promote ecological protection, green economy has become an important 
support for building a modern economy system and achieving high-quality economic growth. As one of the largest integrated energy and chemical enterprises in China, Sinopec Corp. has been implementing the low-carbon green development strategy. In 2013, the Company launched a three-year “Clear Water and Blue Sky” Environmental Protection Campaign. In 2018, the Company launched the Green Enterprise Campaign, aiming at building a clean, efficient, low-carbon and recycling green enterprise. In 2019, the Company further implemented the Green Enterprise Campaign, and continued to promote the establishing of green enterprises at its subsidiaries according to the Sinopec Green Enterprise Evaluation Guideline. In 2019, ten subsidiaries awarded as Green Enterprise last year were reviewed, and another 27 were newly awarded as Green Enterprise, together accounting for over 40% of the Green Enterprise Campaign target. The 
Company plans to turn 50% of its subsidiaries into Green Enterprise by 2020, and 100% by 2023.
While promoting the establishment of green enterprises at oil fields, refining and chemical, and marketing subsidiar -
ies, we launched the campaign in scientific research seg -
ment and organized engineering subsidiaries to strengthen its weak links in green development. The Green Enterprise Campaign has been extended to grassroots units with 11 green pilot projects.
Vision
Green life, green office and related indicators have been included into the green enterprise evaluation system. We have launched eight initiatives, including “garbage clas -
sification, water saving, electricity saving, paper saving, consumables saving, plate-clearing campaign, green travel and recycling”.Expanding the scope Enriching the Content
Green Enterprise Campaign
Contributing to clean energy, 
practicing green development
ActionsGreen 
Service 
Plan
Green 
Technology 
Plan
Green 
Culture 
Plan Green 
Development 
Plan
Green 
Energy 
Plan
Green 
Production 
PlanImplementing 
the Green Enterprise CampaignTopic 1
Including optimising 
production capacity layout, ensuring ecological security, adjusting industrial structure, and building green logistics, etc.
Including increasing clean ener -
gy supply, providing high-quality 
oil products, and promoting new energy R&D, etc.
Including source cleanliness, process cleanliness, maximal use of resources and energy, efficient pollu -
tion control, and controllable environmental risks, etc.Including building a long-effect mechanism and fostering green culture, etc.Focusing on breakthroughs in green production technol -
ogy of petrochemicals, re -
source recycling technology, pollution treatment technol -
ogy, and cutting-edge green technologies, etc.Including expanding green chemical product portfoli -
os, building green service stations, developing energy conservation and environmental protection industries, and building a green supply chain, etc.
14 15
2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development China Petroleum & Chemical CorporationNote: The targets for 2023 was calculated with 2017 as the baseline year.
40 billion cubic metres per yearNatural gas production capacity
Accounting for over 50% of oil and gas production Accounting for 41% of oil and gas production, increased by 
2% year-on-year
10. 1% 0.7 % 7.35billion 
cubic metresShale gas production accounting for oil 
and gas productionincreased by y-o-y50%29.67 billion cubic metresNatural gas production
41 %
46 billion cubic metresNatural gas sold
26 million tonnes per yearLNG receiving and transportation capacity 15- 2 0 %Accounting for domestic supplyTargets for 2023 Progresses in 2019 Targets for 2023 Progresses in 2019
352 thousand tonnesBy October 2018, all gasoline and diesel products should meet National VI emission standard 
for vehicles
Start supplying LSFO that meets 
the latest emission standards.
To increase the marketing and supply of high-quality oil 
products, biodiesel, and gasoline cleaners.B5 vehicle diesel (National VI) sold 1,000 CNG stationsBuild 1,000 CNG stations for vehicles, explore the layout of battery charge & change stations for key cities and road sections, and accelerate the construction of hydrogen stations and hydrogen storage infrastructure.
1,284CNG stations 
43 million tonnes
Gasoline-hydrogen stations built in Guangdong, Shanghai and ZhejiangHydrogen production over
60 billion cubic metres per yearNatural gas supply capacitySupplying Green Energy
16 17
2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development China Petroleum & Chemical CorporationNote: The targets for 2023 was calculated with 2017 as the baseline year.Note: The targets for 2023 was calculated with 2017 as the baseline year.
18  % 18  %
650.36 million cubic metres
1.1  %Energy saving Energy saving
2 % 2.1  %
3.9  % 3.9  %12 %Comprehensive energy consumption 
per RMB10,000 of output
Total GHGs emissions decreased by
decreased byEnergy saving
million tonnes of standard coal 6COD reductionAmmonia-nitrogen 
reduction
NO X reduction SO 2 reductionCOD reductionAmmonia-nitrogen reduction
NO
X reduction SO 2 reductiontonnes of standard coal
million tonnes
of CO 2e0.494
1.46 millionPlanting trees
million 150170.69 0.4 8 %
Fresh water for industrial useAnnual reduction of 
fresh water for industrial use
≥ 1 %Water conservation Water conservationEffluents and Emissions Effluents and Emissions
12 %Targets for 2023 Progresses in 2019 Targets for 2023 Progresses in 2019
CO 2 reduction
12.6 million tonnes of CO 2e
The equivalent of planting treesEnergy Saving and Emission Reduction
In July 2019, the Company became the first mainland Chinese company to join the AEPW and served as a member of its board of directors.
Founded in January 2019, AEPW is a non-profit initiative made up of various international energy and chemical enterprises. The mission of 
the AEPW is to end plastic waste in environment and prevent deteriorating marine pollution through jointly efforts by chemical and plastics producers, consumer goods retailers and companies in waste management value chain.
The Company had signed the relevant memorandums and commitment letters, participated in network conferences and working group 
meetings, and prepared action plans. The Company plans to invest USD25 million to reduce plastic waste over the next five years, playing an active role in promoting the development of the plastic circular economy. Joining the Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW) to end plastic pollution
18 19
2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development China Petroleum & Chemical CorporationTechnological Innovation SystemWith the emergence of a new round of global technological and industrial revolution, the energy and chemical industry has entered a critical period of 
transformation and development. Technological innovation and intelligent development not only contribute to improve the efficiency of production and operation and cultivate innovative business, but also drive the high-quality development of the industry. Implements its innovation-driven development strategy, Sinopec Corp. accelerated the pace of R&D and the commercialization of technology, developed intelligent business unit, such as intelligent factories and intelligent oil and gas fields, promoted intelligent upgrading, and improved the fine management of the whole industrial chain.
In 2019, the Company promoted the reform of its overall technology system and mechanism, further motivated innovation initiative of researchers, or -
ganised focused researches on key areas and disruptive technologies, and promoted the application and dissemination of technological achievements. 
Compiled the Medium- and Long-term Plan for Science and Technology (2019-2045) and the Action Plan for Science and Technolo-
gy (2019-2023), specifying the key disruptive technologies to focus its R&D efforts and the targets and plans for core technological breakthroughs.
Increased investment and support for basic research, and improved the performance appraisal system for technological innovation. 
Explored new mechanisms and models for technological innovation, accelerated the cultivation of 12 projects in new fields, and 
established start-up incubators to promote the transfer and application of technological achievements. 
Hosted innovation competitions and supported collaborative innovation.Owns four State Key Laboratories, six National Engineering Research Centres, four National Energy R&D (Experiment) Centres, 
and six State-Certified Enterprise Technology Centres. 
Jointed the National Natural Science Foundation of China and the Enterprise Innovation and Development Joint Fund, and complet-
ed the application and approval of the first batch of integration projects.
Owns the Houston R&D Centre, the Sinopec-UOP Joint R&D Centre and the Middle East R&D Centre, and improved the research 
conditions at key laboratories and other R&D platforms.
Established the China Auto Lightweight Non-metal Materials Innovation Centre and the Chemical Process Strengthening Technolo -
gy Joint R&D Centre, aiming at developing leading and supporting technologies by focusing on the “basic and advanced” develop -
ment strategy of Sinopec Corp. and adopting the joint research model of “Industry-University-Research-Application”. Top-level design for technological innovation  
Innovation platforms 
Technology incubatorsIn 2019, the Company invested RMB15,539 million in technological research and development, and a number of its technological achievements were 
widely recognised within the industry. The Key Technology for the Efficient and Clean Production of Diesel Project contributed to upgrading diesel quality, winning the second prize of National Technology Invention Award and the Refining Exhaust Ultra-Low Sulphur Emission and Utilisation Project advanced the progress of treatment technology for sulphur-containing emissions winning the second prize of National Technology Progress Award. We had also achieved a number of technological breakthroughs, including polymer materials for medical supplies, large crude oil storage safety manage -
ment, and VOCs emission reduction technology, and applied them in production.
Sulphur-containing refining exhaust is a major pollutant. The traditional treatment method had poisoning hazards from the catalyst used and could not ensure consistent result to meet the emission standards. The Company developed the complete technology for reduce and utilise the sulphur in refining exhaust, using new catalysts and device to significantly reduce SO2 emissions and collect and utilise the sulphur . As 
of the end of 2019, more than 300 devices using this technology had been deployed, saving equipment investment by RMB2,062 million and reducing operating costs by RMB280 million each year. Developing Sulphur Treatment Technology for Refining Exhaust 
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Number of National Technology Invention Awards won 2 1 1
Number of National Prize for Progress in Science and Technology won 3 3 6
Number of patent applications filed in the year 5,876 6,074 6,160
Number of patent applications granted in the year 3,640 4,434 4,076
Cumulative number of patents granted globally 25,931 30,365 34,441Topic 2Technological Innovation 
and Intelligent Development
20 21
2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development China Petroleum & Chemical CorporationThe Company has closely followed the development trend of cutting-edge technology in the industry, and accelerated the pace of digital and intelligent 
transformation. In 2019, the Company launched a number of projects such as ERP system development, intelligent manufacturing pilot demonstration, and integrated e-commerce platform. Meanwhile, it focused on intelligent manufacturing, fostered the construction of intelligent oil and gas fields, intelli -
gent plants, intelligent service stations and intelligent research institutes, to make its production and operation digital, network-based and intelligent.
In 2019, the Company developed a cyber-physical system (CPS) based manufacturing system and solution, which was recognised as a 2019 Pilot 
Demonstration Project of Integrated Development of Manufacturing and the Internet by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.
Researched on the ProMACE Internet platform for petroleum and petrochemical industries, upgraded and promoted the pilot projects of intelligent factories, and realised a number of key applications such as integrated optimisation, operation alarm, and equipment health management. Sinopec Zhenhai realised the no-blind spot and 24-hour real-time inspection of online analysers, which reduced the number of alarms at key devices by more than 50%. 
Promoted the application of intelligent pipeline management 
system in 51 subsidiaries, managing nearly 40,000 kilome -
tres of oil and gas pipelines. The system enables the digital, visualised and intelligent management of oil and gas pipelines, so as to significantly reduce the risk factors and improve the emergency response capability of pipelines, and ensure safe, stable and efficient operation.Carried out pilot projects of intelligent oil and gas field demon -
stration zones in Sinopec Northwest Oil Field Company and Sinopec Puguang Gas Field, adopted the “Data-Platform-Ap -
plication” architecture to deploy the exploration and devel -
opment database, ProMACE platform and business service components, and launched seven types of applications, such as dynamic management of oil and gas reserves, single well management, and pipeline management, etc.
Formulated and issued the Work Plan for Construction of Intelli-
gent Service stations and Guiding Opinions on Construction of Intelligent Service Stations for Marketing Enterprises, which has clarified the standards and plans for building intelligent service stations that meet the needs of consumers with customised solutions. Intelligent Construction
Intelligent factory 
Intelligent pipelinesIntelligent oil and gas fields
Intelligent service stations
Pilot intelligent oil field at Sinopec Northwest Oil Field
Shengli Oilfield uses drones  to inspect key locations2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation
22 23
Facing the increasing constraints on resources and environment, the energy and chemical industries are increasing investment in green chemistry and 
technology to accelerate the path to green development. Sinopec Corp. has made great efforts to enhance core competitiveness by developing clean, green and high-quality energy and chemical products, reducing emissions and contributing to establishing and optimising a green and low-carbon circular economic system.
In recent years, the Chinese government is setting increasingly higher fuel emission standards for vehicles and vessels. The Company took this 
opportunity to upgrade the quality of oil products and complete the upgrade of refined oil quality to meet the National VI emission standards ahead of schedule, and introduced a number of clean and high-quality products with better fuel economy and lower emissions to society.Green and High-quality Energy
Optimised the existing 98# gasoline product, which could significantly reduce the amount of sulphur, manga-nese and lead in emissions and remove and inhibit more than 90% of carbon deposition in the engine, reducing hydrocarbon emissions by 3.1% and carbon monoxide emissions by 1.35%. As of the end of 2019, the product had been pilot launched in ten provinces. Established a blending and marketing network for biodiesel, blending biodiesel made from kitchen grease in the cater -
ing industry with vehicle diesel. The B5 biodiesel was sold to the municipal tran-sit system of Shanghai. As of the end of 2019, we had sold 352,000 tonnes of B5 vehicle diesel (National VI emission standards) cumulatively.The Company attaches great impor -
tance to upgrading the quality of bunker fuel as the new International Maritime Organization (IMO) Low Sulphur Reg -
ulation will be effective from 1 January 2020. The Company so far has laid out productivity construction in 10 coastal enterprises. The LSFO capacity of the Company is predicated to reach 10 million tonnes by the end of 2020.
“X Power” 98# gasoline B5 vehicle diesel (National VI 
emission standards)Low-sulphur maritime 
fuel oil (LSFO)
The Company has paid close attention to industrial transformation and consumption upgrading, adjusted product structure based on market demand, and expanded the production of functional and high value-added chemical products. Meanwhile, it has been upgrading chemical business with more environmental-friendly, low-carbon and high-end products by strengthening the layout in high-performance carbon fibre and composite materials etc.Green and High-performance Chemical Products
Launched ten new products with various safety and envi -
ronmental characteristics in 2019, with an annual output of 40,000 tonnes.
Special materials for auto parts: Focused on the production 
of low-volatility, low-odour products to improve the comfort and safety for drivers and passengers, with an annual output of 50,000 tonnes.
Household and pharmaceutical products: Introduced 
high-performance thermoforming polypropylene material suitable for fast food packaging and refrigerated packaging, allowing food to be kept longer; and launched low-odour polyethylene material suitable for beverage packaging, extending the shelf life of food products and reducing the loss of nutrients.
Medical fibre products and daily necessities: Developed 
plasticiser-free specialty polypropylene fibre products that widely used in personal care and infant care products, as well as surgical gowns, etc. Developed antibacterial fibre products used in medical supplies. In 2019, the output of such products reached 100,000 tonnes. 
Realised the industrial production of high-tech synthetic fi -
bres widely used in textiles, ropes and engineering materials 
because of its super strength, high temperature resistance, light weight, non-conductive, and aging resistanceCompleted the industrial trial production of the new polysty -
rene butadiene rubber, and the trial-produced tyres meet the EU label A/B standard, with better fuel economy, lower rolling friction and better riding comfort. 
Developed a new generation of thermoplastic elastomer SIS, 
which can meet the demand of the express delivery industry. With an annual sales of more than 3,700 tonnes, it could replace the imported products.
Developed the ES specialty elastomer product that is light, 
comfortable and wear-resistant, which can be used to make high-end foam soles and non-pneumatic tyres to improve the safety of bicycles. And the material can be recycled and reused.
Developed a variety of environmentally-friendly lubricants 
and tail gas treatment fluids in the fields of railways, ships, etc., and developed diesel engine oil products that meet the National VI emission standards.
Independently developed food-grade lubricants that used to 
only available through imports. Synthetic resins
Synthetic fibresSynthetic rubber
LubricantsSupplying Green Energy 
and Chemical ProductsTopic 3
24 25
2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development China Petroleum & Chemical CorporationIn 2019, the Company has implemented 
274 poverty alleviation projects focusing on industrial development.
Relying on the local mulberry planting 
and silkworm raising in Yuexi County, Anhui Province, the Company has developed the circular economy of mulberry branch fungus and biomass pellet fuel by using waste mulberry branches as raw materials, lifting more than 500 households out of poverty.
Built irrigation facilities for the 1,500-mu 
(equivalent to 247 acres) red kiwi fruit base in Luxi County, Hunan Province. 
Cooperated with agricultural research 
institutes in Gansu Province to promote the cultivation of quinoa of more than 4,000 mu (equivalent to 659 acres) and create “Dongxiang Quinoa” poverty alleviation brand, increasing the per household income of 537 low-income households by RMB5,200 in the whole year.Poverty alleviation through 
industrial development
China is engaged in an unprecedented battle against poverty, striving to achieve comprehensive poverty alleviation by 2020. The development of 
enterprises should feed the society, and the common prosperity of the society will create a harmonious and favourable environment for the growth of enterprises, and provide continuous momentum for their development. Since its participation in poverty alleviation in 1988, Sinopec Corp. has adhered to the targeted policy, innovated long-term support mechanisms, and carried out various programmes in light of local conditions to promote poverty alleviation through infrastructure construction, industrial development, product marketing, education support, providing better healthcare, and promoting employment, so as to lift people in poverty-stricken areas out of poverty to achieve sustainable development.
In 2019, the Company continued to support poverty alleviation in eight counties across the country; its subsidiaries implemented poverty alleviation 
efforts in 750 villages. The Company mobilised 1,994 full-time and part-time poverty alleviation volunteers, and invested RMB190 million to support poverty alleviation, over-fulfilling its annual poverty alleviation targets.
Poverty alleviation achievements in 2019
The Company has contributed to local education to improve the capability of the poverty-stricken areas. 
Continued to implement the Sinopec 
Student Grant programme, supporting 1,955 students from low-income families.
Organised more than 200 poor 
students to participate in Sinopec’s Summer/Winter Camp, Aerospace Experience Camp, Winter Olympics Experience Camp and other activities. 
Improved school facilities, invested 
RMB20 million to build the Sinopec Middle School in the relocation areas of Dongxiang County, Gansu Province; built new dormitory buildings in Zeku County, Qinghai Province and Bange County, Tibet; invested more than RMB2 million in Luxi County, Hunan Province, to build school facilities for the Sinopec Middle School.
Improved school facilities of special 
education schools to create better living and rehabilitation conditions for children with special needs.
Participated in the public welfare 
curriculum project for primary and secondary schools, introducing online education resources to poverty-stricken areas to support capacity building of rural teachers and help the students to see a greater world. 
Donated 699 “Charity Parcels” for 
primary school students in Luxi County, Hunan Province, and materials worth more than RMB30,000 for the 20 orphans in Sinopec Middle School in cooperation with charitable organisations and other companies. Poverty alleviation 
through education support
The Company has contributed to local healthcare to improve the well-being of the pover -
ty-stricken areas. 
Sinopec Lifeline Express Programme has provided free cataract surgery to 2,376 
patients from low-income households.
Promoted mobile health in Gansu, Xinjiang and other regions in cooperation with part -
ners. In 2019, the Company conducted 534 mobile health consultations and trained more 
than 5,000 local medical workers.
Dispatched medical teams from the headquarters to provide free medical services 
in poverty-stricken counties, donated drugs and medical devices and instruments, and conducted physical examinations for villagers. 
Purchased 143 mobile disinfection machines for village clinics in Yopurga County, Xinji
-
ang, and donated urgently needed medical equipment to hospitals in Bange County, Tibet.Poverty alleviation through providing better healthcare
The Company focused on creating employment opportunities and carried out various “job placement” projects for poverty alleviation.
Created more than 200 jobs for Dongxiang County in Gansu Province, Yingshang County in Anhui Province and Zeku County in Qinghai 
Province.
Developed a detailed training plan to help the newly hired employees from low-income households improve their skills and learn about 
career development, helping them obtain stable and long-term employment. Poverty alleviation through promoting employmentThe Company has encouraged its employees and partners to involve in poverty alleviation through consump -
tion, purchasing agricultural products of RMB57 million from poverty-stricken areas and helping sell agricultural products of RMB283 million. 
Introduced products from pover -
ty-stricken areas through channels such as EasyJoy convenience stores with dedicated shelves. 
Organised a trade fair for products 
from poverty-stricken areas that partici -
pated by 103 enterprises from pover -
ty-stricken counties, which sold a total of RMB2.971 million worth of products.Poverty alleviation through 
product marketing Focus on 
Targeted Poverty AlleviationTopic 4
Fig growing poverty alleviation project in Yingshang County, Anhui Province35,377Low-income population benefited
1,521Grassroots volunteers trained
57  millionWorth of agricultural products from 
poverty-stricken areas purchased (RMB)1,353Technician volunteers trained
283 millionWorth of agricultural products from poverty-stricken sold (RMB)
26 27
2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development China Petroleum & Chemical CorporationAt the beginning of the Spring Festival in 2020, an outbreak of the COVID-19 started in Wuhan, Hubei Province, and quickly spread countrywide. The 
lives and health of the people were threatened, while medical and epidemic prevention supplies were in short supply. Sinopec Corp. promptly set up a leading group to coordinate epidemic prevention and control. Besides taking appropriate epidemic prevention and control measures, the Company leveraged its resources to ensure the production and supply of epidemic prevention and control supplies, donated funds and supplies, to help people overcome the difficulties.
Timely donation and assistance
To ensure the supply of energy and materials for society and maintain stable production and operation during the epidemic, some of our employees ended their holidays to return to work. In order to ensure the health and safety of employees, the Company launched the emergency plan, implement -
ed strict prevention and control measures, and distributed protective equipment such as masks and disinfectants to employees, and ensured timely and regular disinfection of workplaces. To reduce unnecessary contact, the Company launched video conferencing and other communication tools; to protect employees’ physical and mental health, the Company provided psychological intervention for employees.Kept 176 service stations in Wuhan and over 1,800 service stations in Hubei Province remain open for business.
Ensured the stable supply of natural gas in Hubei Province.
Promised no price increase at EasyJoy conveniences stores during the epidemic.
EasyJoy convenience stores in Wuhan provided living suppliers such as staple goods, grocer, and other protective materials like 
sanitisers which was urgently needed by local residents.
Launched the touch-free service at nearly 6,000 EasyJoy convenient stores in 126 cities to address people’s need to shop for 
groceries during the epidemic.As the largest supplier of medical and healthcare materials in China, Sinopec Corp. organised its subsidiaries to adjust their production schedule to focus on producing materials for medical supplies, such as synthetic resin and organic chemicals, and promised to keep their prices unchanged. 
Leveraging its capacity in production of materials, the Company set up 16 production lines to product materials for mask, and 
worked together with its partners to set up mask production lines with a 2 million daily capacity. 
Sourced medical supplies such as mask, protective suit, disinfectant, detergent and thermometers globally through the EPEC 
e-commerce platform.
Ensuring energy supplies
Ensuring supply of daily necessitiesEnsuring supplies of emergency medical supplies
Topic 5Concerted Efforts to 
Fight Against the COVID-19 Outbreak
Provided fuel and supplies for the con -
struction team from the service stations 
nearby. Donated and delivered two batches of medi -
cal supplies to Wuhan: delivered 200 tonnes of disinfectant to Wuhan Hospital on January 24; delivered 8,000 bottles of alcohol disinfec-tant and 6,780 boxes of antibacterial wipes to Wuhan on February 22.Recruited doctors and nurses inter -
nally as medical volunteers to support Wuhan, and allocated and delivered protective masks to Wuhan. 
Donated RMB 50 million to the Hubei Red Cross Society for epidemic preven -
tion and control. 
A total of RMB 47 million was donated 
by  CPC members in Sinopec Corp. and its subsidiaries to suppor epidemic prevention and control.
Provided free refuel for ambulances and free quick meals for the crew onboard. Donated 16,500 litres of diesel and 1,000 drums of construction machinery lubricants.Support for the construction of Huoshenshan Hospital and Leishenshan Hospital
Sinopec Corp. fully produces meltblown materials
28 29
2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable Development China Petroleum & Chemical CorporationDriven by climate change and technological transformation, the global energy structure is 
accelerating the pace of transformation to a low-carbon, clean and diversified economy . Sinopec 
Corp. actively implements the green and low-carbon development strategy, promotes energy transformation, and tackles climate change by developing clean energy, improving energy efficiency, and developing green emerging industries.01Low-Carbon Development
30 31
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentMore rigorous international, national and regional laws 
and regulations to limit greenhouse gas emissions may suppress the demand for fossil fuels and future profit growth. Meanwhile, China is promoting a national car -
bon emission trading markets, and most enterprises of the Company are expected to be included for emission control, which may impact production and operation. Some exports may also be subject to carbon tax.Background and risk analysis
Policy and legal risks
For Sinopec Corp., climate change means more than risks and challenges. The Company will seize the opportunities related to climate change and ex -
pand its business and product lines in the fields of clean energy (such as natural gas and hydrogen), renewable energy (such as biofuels, solar power and wind power), new materials (such as eco-friendly staple fibres and nanofiltration/reverse osmosis membranes), and new energy vehicle facilities (such as charging stations and hydrogen stations).Stakeholders pay more attention to the Company’s ESG (environmental, social and corporate governance) performance. So, if the Company fails to make expect -
ed progress in addressing climate change or energy transformation, its image and value may be negatively affected.In the transition to a low-carbon and energy-saving economy, technological innovations will increase the Company’s R&D costs and investment expenditures. Meanwhile, social attention to climate change and sustainable consumption may encourage consumers to buy low-carbon products, thus reducing demand for traditional petrochemical products.
Extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes and 
floods caused by climate change may bring in direct damage in production and operation activities. Security risks and supply chain disruptions caused by climate change may also bring indirect negative impacts.Market and technology risks
Operations and disaster risks Reputation risksClimate Change
Climate change is a serious challenge facing mankind in the 21st century. It is a major global issue that has a profound impact on economic and social 
development and ecological environment of all countries. The Company has proactively identified the risks and opportunities related to climate change, developed the low-carbon development strategy, strengthened the management of carbon assets, and promoted energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions reduction.Emission reduction targets
(displayed in charts)Policy documents Actions and measures
The Company has set carbon emis -
sion reduction targets in the Green Enterprise Campaign by 2023, which include:Management Measures on Carbon Emissions of Sinopec Corp.Low-carbon management system
Requiring our subsidiaries to sign the 
Pledge of Energy Efficiency & Environmental Protection to set emission reduction targets, and the performance of the subsidiaries and their management personnel will be assessed annually.
Conducting system-wide carbon inventory 
audit: Greenhouse gas audit is conducted in accordance with the ISO14064 standard, cov -
ering more than 100 oil field joint stations, more than 2,000 refining units and more than 30,000 sales station warehouses of subsidiaries. All the data are subject to internal verification.
Conducting carbon footprint research: Pre -
pared the “Carbon Footprint Accounting and Evaluation Method for Petrochemical Prod -
ucts” for aviation coal, asphalt, lubricating oil and other products, and incorporated carbon footprint evaluation and improvement into the Green Enterprise standards.
Optimising the carbon asset management 
information system, improving the efficiency of enterprise data filing, and developing informa -
tion solutions for carbon emission manage -
ment.Management Measures on Carbon Emis -
sion Trading of Sinopec Corp. (Trial)
Management Measures on the Disclosure of Carbon Emission Information of Sinopec Corp. (Trial)
Detailed Rules for the Implementation of Energy and Environmental Performance Assessment of Sinopec Corp.
Chongqing Nanchuan Shale Gas Exploration and Development Zone in Spring time12.6 million tones
500 thousand tonnes
300 thousand tonnes
200 million cubic metresReduce CO2 emission by
Capture CO2 per year
Store CO2 per year
Capture and use methane 
per year
32 33
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentOur action— Improving energy efficiency
The Company further implemented the “Energy Efficiency Improvement Plan” to reduce resources consumption and control greenhouse gas emissions. 
In 2019, 438 projects were implemented to save energy by 370 thousand tonnes of standard coal per year. The comprehensive energy consumption of RMB 10,000 of output was 0.494 tonnes of standard coal, decreased by 0.4% year-on-year.
Implemented six major energy-saving projects
Conducted six key energy-saving projects, including energy effi -
ciency improvement through integration of injection, production and transportation, energy system optimisation, comprehensive utilisation of low-temperature heat, energy efficiency improve -
ment in coal-fired power plants, energy conservation monitoring and diagnosis, and energy conservation and consumption reduction in water circulation systems.
Adjusted the structure of self-use energy  
Implemented electrical transformation. Sinopec Northwest Oilfield and other enterprises promoted the work of replacing oil with electricity . 
Sinopec Yangzi Petrochemical introduced steam and hydrogen from surrounding enterprises and industrial parks for energy supply.
Actively promoting clean energy such as solar energy and geothermal energy . Among them, Sinopec Zhenhai’s fishery-solar hybrid 
photovoltaics project has an annual power output of 210 million KWHs, saving 59,800 tonnes/year of standard coal. Solar photovoltaics is 
realised in 140 service stations, generating 2.12 million KWHs/year.
Indicator 2017 2018 2019
Comprehensive energy consumption of RMB10,000 of output (tonnes of standard coal)0.496 0.496 0.494438
370thousand tonnes of          
standard coal0.494 tonnes of standard coal
0.4  %Our action— Greenhouse gas reduction management
In 2019, the Company continued to conduct greenhouse gas auditing, strengthen special investigation, monitoring and emission source sorting on 
methane; promoted methane recovery and utilisation, reduced flare burning, and conducted carbon capture and storage; participated in the construc -
tion of carbon emissions trading market, and offset some of carbon footprint by purchasing carbon quotas.
Methane recovery and emission Emission reduction and recovery of flare gas
                    Recover 200 million cubic metres of 
methane per year during 2018-2023.Flare system is an important safety guarantee to the production process, but it also causes energy waste and environmental pollution. The Company actively adopted modern production technology to reduce and recycle flare gas.
In the oil and gas exploration segment, technologies and mea -
sures, such as the flare gas throttle mouth, prior gas test for pro -
duction, remote scattered wells and casing gas recovery, were fully promoted with a total of 124 million cubic metres of flare gas recov -
ered throughout the year.
In the refining segment, continuously strengthening flare system 
management: balanced the fuel gas pipeline network to prevent fuel gas from venting to the flare system; ensured smooth operation of oil refining units and reduce flare emissions under abnormalities from the source; checked the operation of the flare system in production units, reduced the flare gas emission and recycled the gasometer.
In the chemicals segment, the goal of eliminating conventional 
flares was basically achieved. Flare gas in existing facilities was basically recycled. Newly-built units were constructed according to the scheme of maximum recovery of flare gas. Flare is only used as an incineration unit that cannot recover exhaust gas and as a safety guarantee system in case of emergency.Conducted a special study on methane venting and escape, sort -
ing out the main methane emission sources in oil and gas production, and developed monitoring techniques, methods and work plans.
Launched a special initiative to recycle methane and the annual 
recovery of methane reached about 397 million cubic metres, among which 200 million cubic metres were from oil fields, equivalent to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
Completed the research project on “Voluntary Emission Reduction 
Methodology Development and Project Forecast and Implementation Techniques”, developed four methane recovery methods, and created prediction methods and implementing specifications for waste-heat utilisation and methane recovery voluntary emission reduction proj -
ects.
Worked with other domestic oil and gas companies on methane 
emission control research, including data accounting, target setting, emission reduction technology and measure formulation.
Carbon capture and storageTarget
Target                    Capture 500,000 tonnes of CO2 and store 
300,000 tonnes of CO2 each year during 2018-2023.Established the energy management 
system for refinery enterprises
Completed the construction of the energy management system 
(Phase II) project and putting the energy management informa -
tion system into operation in nine refinery enterprises.
Applied energy management systems with the thermoelectric 
production of 18 refinery enterprises optimised online through dynamic optimisation models.
In 2019, CO2 capture and recycling continued in oil fields and 
refinery enterprises. Among them, refinery enterprises captured 1.26 57.55 0.48 % 3 % 170.69Implemented projects Total GHGs emissions Greenhouse gas intensity
Save energyThe comprehensive energy 
consumption of RMB 10,000 of output
decreased bydecreased by decreased by
tonnes of CO2e per 
RMB million of outputmillion tonnes 
of CO2e
million tonnes of CO2 and accumulated 3.71 million tonnes of CO2. Oil 
field enterprises injected 230,000 tonnes of CO2 for oil displacement, 
with a cumulative total of 3.67 million tonnes injected underground for 
oil displacement.
34 35
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentIndicator 2017 2018 2019
Total greenhouse gas emissions (million tonnes of CO2e) 162.66 171.52 170.69
Direct emissions (million tonnes of CO2e) 123.05 128.57 125.68
Indirect emissions (million tonnes of CO2e) 39.61 42.95 45.01
Greenhouse gas emission intensity (tonnes of CO2e / RMB million)268.92 59.32 57.55Carbon trading
The Company participated in the domestic carbon emission trading 
market pilot project. By the end of 2019, a total of 14 subsidiaries had been included in the pilot project and fulfilled the carbon quota compliance tasks according to the requirements.
Encouraged carbon trading pilot project-involved enterprises to 
formulate reasonable compliance schemes and trading plans. In 2019, the Company’s carbon trading volume reached 2.02 million tonnes and the turnover reached RMB49.57 million, accounting for 3% of the national market.
In the self-owned power plant enterprises, national carbon emis -
sion right registration, account application for the trading system and quota trial calculation were conducted to prepare for carbon trading.
Cooperated with Beijing Environmental Exchange and Shanghai 
Environmental Energy Exchange to promote the development of China’s carbon market.
Note: 1. The data is calculated based on data in the National Afforestation Committee’s docu-
ment, Management Measures on the Form of Voluntary Tree Planting for All Citizens (Trial).Greening carbon sinks
The Company urged its subsidiaries to improve their greening
 system, and to take environmental protection actions such as afforestation so as to neutralise greenhouse gas emitted in the form of carbon sinks.
The greening rate of administrative offices, research institutes and 
other courtyards should be no less than 20%, that of petrochemical plants be no less than 12% and of other industrial plants (stations) be no less than 20%.
Continued afforestation and the voluntary tree planting campaign, 
growing an equivalent of 1.46 million trees throughout the year
1.
397  million cubic metres 1 24  million cubic metres
3.71  million cubic metres
2.02  million tonnes 3 % ≥20  %≥12  %≥20  %According to the World Energy Outlook 
2019 released by the International En -
ergy Agency (IEA), under established policy scenarios:According to the 2020 China Energy 
and Chemical Industry Development Report of Economics & Development Research Institute of Sinopec Corp., China’s total primary energy consump -
tion in 2019 is estimated about 4.78 billion tonnes, up by3.1 percent year-on-year. Among them: 
Natural gas and non-fossil energy 
become the main drivers of the increase in consumption, accounting for a rising share of 22.9%, up by0.8% year-on-year; 
Natural gas consumption is about 
302.5 BCM, up by 9.0% year-on-year; 
Non-fossil energy consumption is 
about 700 million tonnes of standard coal, up 5.0% year-on-year; 
The growth rate of coal consump -
tion has stabilised, with the share of consumption falling further to 57.9%; oil consumption is about 650 million tonnes, up by 5.1% year-on-year; 
Energy consumption intensity 
would further reduce, with energy consumption per unit of GDP reaching 0.62 tons of standard coal per 10,000 yuan, down by 2.8% year-on-year.Sinopec Corp. has included natural gas development and low-carbon trans -
formation in the Company’s strategic planning and action plan, and focuses on continuously raising the percentage of natural gas and new energy. 
By grasping strategic opportunities, improving infrastructure, effectively expanding the operation scale and prolonging the value chain of natural gas, the natural gas business will be cultivated into a strategic, sustainable and valuable part for the Company’s transformative growth. 
Develop new energy by the asset-light 
approach and cultivate new energy supply systems, such as solar energy and wind energy that are highly compatible with traditional oil and gas exploration and development business, so as to effectively increase the pro -
portion of non-fossil energy business. Carry out carbon asset management and implement the CO2 capture and storage project in stages to compre -
hensively strengthen the Company’s capacity of green and low-carbon development.Under the pressure of climate change and the increasing energy demand, the global energy landscape as well as supply-demand relationship are undergoing far-reaching changes. China is driving ahead reforms in energy production and energy consumption to build an energy system featuring cleanliness, low carbon emission, safety and high efficiency. To seize opportunities soared in the crucial period of energy transformation, by sticking to the development approach of ensuring steady oil supply, Sinopec Corp. seeks to stabilise crude oil development, explore more natural gas resources, reduce costs, and develop renewable energy resources, to optimise its energy portfolio. 
Social Demand and Strategy Analysis
wind and solar photovoltaics will take up more than half of the world’s new electricity capacity. Global energy demand will grow at an annual rate of 1% by 2040, down from 2.3% in 2018; Before 2040
By 2040
Natural gas transformation
Low-carbon transformation
Solar energy and wind energy are used in Zhongyuan OilfieldEnergy Transition
Global Energy Trends Energy Development in ChinaEnergy Transformation Strategy 
of Sinopec Corp.
Note: 2. Greenhouse gas emission intensity = Greenhouse gas emission / revenue (in RMB million)3.67  million cubic metresglobal oil demand growth will slow down significantly before levelling off after 2030;After 2025The annual recovery of 
methane reached The oil and gas exploration segment promoted flare gas recoveryThe greening rate of administrative offices, research institutes and other courtyards
The greening rate of 
petrochemical plants
The greening rate of 
other industrial plants (stations)Refinery enterprises accumulately captured CO
2 
Proportion of carbon trading turnover in the national marketOil field enterprises cumulative injected  CO
2 for oil displacement
Carbon trading volume reached 
36 37
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentNatural Gas
For the overall benefits of gas-related industries, Sinopec Corp. has been ramping up ef forts in conventional gas and shale gas exploration, optimizing 
the mechanism on imported LNG procurement, and building a production, supply, storage and marketing system with optimal resource allocation, 
strong gas supply and great anti-risk ability, so as to ensure the quality and sustainability of its gas business. The Company is striving to forge the gas business into a pillar in the upstream segment by 2035.
Development Targets of Natural Gas
Natural Gas Development Outcomes in 2019
Sinopec Corp. pays equal attention to conventional gas and unconventional gas. Whilst enhancing the recovery ratio of conventional gas, the Company has regarded shale gas as an important part in gas development, and made efforts to properly explore and utilise the resources. 
Implemented intensive gas field management, conducted elaborate prospecting of gas reserves, extended the stable production cycle of gas fields, and enhanced gas recovery ratio.
Stepped up shale gas exploration; conducted important research on unconventional resources 
including shale gas and coal-bed methane focusing on efficiency and scale. In 2019, the Com -
pany produced 7.343 BCM of shale gas and sold 7.06 BCM of it.Conventional gas
Unconventional gas27.68
9.429.67
10.131.5-32.5
12.3-12.846
39 4142.2-4351.8
14.6
29.7 BCM of gas produced 46 BCM of gas sold. Operating about 10,000 kilometres of gas pipelines, 3 receiving stations and 3 under -
ground gas storage facilities.Exploration Supply SaleNew Energy
Embracing the “green revolution” and “electric revolution”, Sinopec Corp. seeks breakthrough of energy transformation and business transformation with new energy. In 2019, the Company focused on the development of renewable energy such as solar energy and hydrogen, and facilitated the establishment of supporting facilities such as charging and changing stations, in response to the policy of developing new energy vehicles.
Solar energy Bioenergy 
Hydrogen Supporting facilities for new energy vehiclesBuilt distributed photovoltaic power stations in marketing subsidiar -
ies, and constructed photovoltaic power generation projects in the 
Sinopec Zhenhai Refinery
In 2019, solar contributed 6.92 million KWHs of power.
Built charging and changing stations in support of the national strate -
gy for developing new energy vehicles; carried out R&D and produc -
tion of materials related to new energy vehicles. Built 12 battery charging and changing stations, providing over 6.2 
million KWHs of power for new energy vehicles.Promoted the use of B5 biodiesel processed from kitchen waste grease, with an annual sale of 352,000 tonnes; supplying self-devel -
oped bio-jet fuel for commercial passenger jets, becoming the first Chinese enterprise with such technology.
6.62 7.349.15-9.6513
Built infrastructure for hydrogen production, purification, storage and transportation, and demonstration stations for hydrogen processing. In 2019, four oil-hydrogen refuel construction stations were built in Guangdong, Zhejiang and Shanghai, realizing the comprehensive supply of fuel, hydrogen and electric energy, and mainly serving public transit vehicles and logistic vehicles that use hydrogen fuel.
Produced over 3 million tonnes of hydrogen.2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 Target 2020 Target 2025 Target 2025 Target
Natural gas production (BCM)
of which: shale gas production (BCM)Proportion of natural gas to oil and gas equivalent (%)
of which: proportion of shale gas to oil and gas equivalent (%)
A customer recharging his new energy vehicle at a Sinopec Corp. service station in Shenzhen
38 39
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentTaking tentative measures to engage in all hydrogen-related 
industries, covering hydrogen production, storage and transpor -
tation in the upstream segment, the fuel-cell system area in the midstream segment as well as different application areas in the downstream segment. In 2019, Sinopec Capital made an invest -
ment in a hydrogen fuel cell system supplier in Shanghai.With Sinopec Capital, the joint venture in which Sinopec Corp. holds a stake of 49%, Sinopec Corp. will operate in a range of emerging green industries through strategic and financial investments.Fostering a New Impetus to Growth
Sinopec Capital integrates ESG issues into investment decision-making and portfolio management. In implementing investments and inter -
national cooperation projects, Sinopec Capital has oriented itself to both the “Economic and Social Green Sustainable Development” and the “Sustainable Growth of the Company”. Positive and negative screenings of investee enterprises, especially ESG factors such as corporate governance, social impact and environmental impact, are carried out to ensure good economic, environmental and social impact.In the future, Sinopec Corp. will advance the development of solar PV and hydrogen energy industries. Pilot projects concerning hydrogen refuelling stations will be carried out in Guangdong, Jiangsu, Hubei, Sichuan and Chongqing, and wind power utilisation will be trailed. A diverse system that supplies solar energy, wind energy and hydrogen energy is under construction. In November 2019, Sinopec Corp. signed a memorandum of cooperation with French-based Air Liquide. Under the memorandum, Sinopec Corp. will set up a company committed to the R&D on hydrogen energy technology and infrastructure networking construction. Concerted ef forts 
will be made to promote and apply hydrogen energy and fuel cell vehicle overall solutions in China, and build an industrial chain and community of hydrogen energy.Expanding international cooperation to jointly develop hydrogen energy
Entering the area of lubricant additives that exert a synergistic effect on the Company’s business and concluded a strategic investment in 2019. While supporting the domestic additive industry, Sinopec Corp. is upgrading its product lines and further strengthening its technology and research capacity in lubricant additive area. New material fields New energy fields
H2
Pilot photovoltaic power generation project on a reservoir in Zhenhai Refinery Hydrogen refuel station in Jiaxing, Zhejiang
40 41
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentWith the increasing global attention to environmental protection, it has become a consensus 
among energy and chemical industries to accelerate industrial transformation and upgrading and become a clean and green enterprise. Sinopec Corp. adheres to the idea of green develop-ment, attaches great importance to environmental protection, and strictly abides by the environ-mental law, regulations and protocols on the prevention and control of air, water and soil pol-lution. The Company continuously strengthens the application of environmental management system and technological applications, reduces pollution and the impact on the environment across the industrial chain, so as to achieve harmonious coexistence and coordinated develop -
ment of society and the environment.02Environmental Protection
42 43
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentEnvironmental Management
While implementing environmental laws and regulations, Sinopec Corp. also pushes forward the process to become a green enterprise. The Company 
continues to optimise its environmental management system and capability, screens and rectify environmental risks and hazards, and strengthens the 
supervision, governance and incentive for its subsidiaries to contribute to the green and sustainable development. 
Background and Risk Analysis
Production activities and operations of the Company generates waste water, exhaust gas and solid waste. The Company has established and continuously improves a dynamic management mechanism and relevant processes to deal with environmental hazards. Production subsidiaries of the Company use own facilities as well as municipal resources to effectively treat waste water, exhaust gas and waste residues to prevent and reduce pollution. It is expected that the government will formulate and implement stricter environmental laws and regulations and adopt stricter environmental standards. 
Under these circumstances, the Company’s environmental expendi -
ture may increase in the short term. But in the long run, upgrading and 
transformation of facilities will help us reduce resources consumption, save environmental management cost, and improve the comprehen -
sive environmental performance, all of which are conducive to the long-term growth of the Company.Environmental Management System
By fully implementing a green and low-carbon development strategy, the Company has formulated the Environmental Protection Manage -
ment Regulations of Sinopec Corp., and established and continu -
ously improved the section of environmental protection in the HSSE management system in compliance with ISO14001 (GB/T24001). Environmental protection work of the Company is regulated to reach the goal of “zero pollution”. 
Based on the characteristics of the petrochemical industry and the 
current laws and regulations, the Company has formulated the HSSE Management System containing a section on environmental manage -
ment, which includes environment-related management indicators and division of responsibilities, and its subsidiaries compiled and issued their own HSSE management manuals to improve their management capability. System and Guidelines
Implementation
EvaluationEvery year, indicators such as comprehensive energy consumption 
per RMB10,000 of output, industrial fresh water withdrawals, pollut -
ants and total greenhouse gas emissions are passed on to functional departments and the subsidiaries with attached accountability statement. In 2019, the compliance rate of the total waste water and exhaust gas emissions by the subsidiaries were required to be at least 99.8% and 99.5% respectively, and 100% of hazardous waste is to be properly disposed.
All the above-mentioned indicators are included in the green 
enterprise assessment system and the energy and environmental performance system. In addition, energy conservation and environ -
mental protection indicators have been incorporated into the senior management assessment system of the subsidiaries and linked with the annual performance of employees.Dynamic 
Management of 
Environmental 
RisksIdentification 
Re-evaluation
Rectification 
of hazardsManagement and 
controlEvaluationFor new projects, the Company conducts environmental impact as -
sessment according to relevant national requirements, solicits public opinions in various ways, such as announcement, newspaper and the Internet, and publishes feedback information on the website of national environmental protection authorities. In 2019, all newly-built projects of the Company were subject to environmental impact assessment according to regulatory requirements and got approved accordingly.Completed Phase VII of the national oil quality upgrading task, man -
aged the total coal consumption and energy intensity, shut down and eliminated small coal-fired boilers, and continued to ensure compli -
ance with atmospheric pollutant emission standards. 
Environmental impact assessment Atmosphere
Green constructionWater
Environmental risk monitoring SoilDuring project construction, the project owner is required to formulate an HSE (health, safety and environmental protection) management approach, and provide contractors with environmental protection training. Suppliers are encouraged to give priority to environmen -
tally-friendly construction processes. Professional institutions and experts are hired to conduct environmental inspection upon the com -
pletion of construction, including on-site inspections of the construc -
tion site and the pollution prevention and control facilities.Reduced the total discharge of waste water, strove to meet the dis -
charge standards for production sewage consistently, and carried out groundwater risk assessment and treatment.
For projects already in operation, the Company formulates environ -
mental risk assessment guidelines, and its subsidiaries regularly evaluate environmental risks and prepare their environmental risk list. Meanwhile, the Company continues to strengthen its capability to tackle environmental hazards and emergencies, and take regular actions to identify and mitigate environmental hazards.Carried out eco-environment surveys, built regional hazardous waste disposal centres, and promoted the rational disposal and utilisation of wastes.
Major pollutant discharging subsidiaries of the Company have 
obtained pollution permits in accordance with regulatory requirement, and submitted quarterly implementation reports to the national pol -
lution permit management information platform, which are examined and supervised by the local environmental authority and made public. Meanwhile, as required by law, all discharge points are equipped with online monitoring device that transmit environmental monitoring data in real time to national and local monitoring platforms, and are subject to regular or spot inspections of the environmental authorities.Our Action – Managing the Environ-
mental Impact of ProjectsOur Action – Prevention and Control of key Pollutants
With a whole life cycle perspective, Sinopec Corp. implements closed-
loop environmental management to effectively evaluate the relevant environmental risks and potential impacts of new and existing proj -
ects, and taking measures to mitigate the impact on eco-environment and the surrounding communities.Adhering to the government’s requirements for pollution prevention and control, Sinopec Corp. formulated the Three-Year Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pollution under the Green Enterprise Action Plan, specifying 23 key tasks regarding overall targets on controlling key pollutants in the atmosphere, water and soil. In 2019, the Compa -
ny effectively managed environmental risks and disposed of different pollutants in a steady way with the standards met. 
Sinopec Corp. built China’s first large-scale natural gas purification plant in Yuanba Gas Field
44 45
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentSpecified the emission and pollution control targets for the subsidiaries 
with the Pledge of Energy Efficiency & Environmental Protection , which are 
included in the annual performance assessment.
Organised environment performance audit, on-site Green Enterprise audit, 
enterprise environmental examinations of in key areas, etc., and provided guidance to key enterprises on meeting emission standards.Improving pollution prevention and control
Carrying out environmental protection campaigns
Implementing environmental protection managementOrganised the enterprises in key areas to prevent and control atmospheric 
pollution and guarantee good air quality in the heating season of autumn and winter. 
Upgraded environmental protection facilities, conducted the ultra-low 
emissions upgrading of coal-fired boilers and the low-nitrogen combustion upgrading of industrial furnace, and implemented VOCs treatment projects related to oil storage areas, the loading and unloading processes, and sewage treatment plants.
Aiming at treating the pollution of volatile organic pollutants (VOCs), Sinopec Yangzi Petrochemical developed the adsorption-catalytic oxidation (xCo) and the catalytic oxidation (CO) treatment technologies using precious metal catalyst. These technologies have been successfully applied to 14 industrial projects and achieved good results. In 2019, Sinopec Yangzi Petrochemical developed the innovative VOCs treatment technology for laboratories. This world-leading technology has realised customised selection of adsorbents and catalysts according to the components and concentration of VOCs, providing a new solution to treatment VOCs from chemical devices.Emission Management
Sinopec Corp. has conducted comprehensive examination on its emission of atmospheric pollutants and rectified relevant problems. Meanwhile, the Company continued to strengthen the research and development of emission treatment technology and applications to improves its capability to control pollution and meet the atmospheric emission standards. 
Sinopec Yangzi Petrochemical innovates on VOC treatment technology2018
2019Improved systems and standards: Issued List of Hazardous Waste 
of Sinopec Corp. (Trial), Technical Requirements for the Management 
of Solid Waste in Water Supply Systems, Management Measures for Green Purchase of Sinopec Corp., and Operation Specifications for Resin Spill Prevention of Sinopec Corp.Promoted waste reduction from the source. In refining and chemi -
cal enterprises, green packaging for catalysts, solvents and additives were used, reducing packaging waste by approximately 36%, nearly 500,000 drums; reduced the packing need for waste lubricants, and promoted the use of environmentally friendly packaging.
Built regional hazardous waste disposal centres and waste cata -
lyst disposal bases.Promoted the use of bags and other eco-friendly packaging of lu -
bricants, and innovated on service models to help customers dispose of waste oil to reduce environmental risks.
Studied the characteristics of nonconforming products in the 
production of synthetic resin, and participated in the revision of the National List of Hazardous Waste.
Sinopec Lubricant attaches great importance to reduc -
ing hazardous waste and recycling waste oil. It set up a benchmarking mechanism for hazardous waste and sales volume, and analysed the benchmarking results quarterly; increased the use to bags, which were more environmen -
tally friendly and resulted in less oily waste for the custom -
ers to dispose of. In 2019, Sinopec Lubricant helped the refining and chemical subsidiaries of the Company reduce the use of 19,000steel drums and realise an 85.6% replace -
ment rate of eco-friendly packaging. Sinopec Lubricant also actively communicated with the MEE Solid Waste and Toxic Chemicals Division and signed a cooperation framework agreement on waste oil recycling and cooperated with the local environmental protection authorities to promote the cleaning of used drums and recycle of waste oil.
In 2019, Sinopec Shanxi Petroleum reached a strategic cooperation agreement with a university to jointly develop the microbial disposal technology for hazardous waste. Hazardous waste produced in the oil tank cleaning process treated with the microorganism technology were able to meet recycle and reuse standards. The two sides also jointly explored and researched on the microbial treatment technology of oily sludge and domestic sewage in the pe -
troleum and petrochemical industry to provide environmen -
tal protection and production related technological services.Solid Waste Management
Sinopec Corp. adheres to the concept of circular economy and follows the principle of “Reduce, Reuse, and Harmless” to treat its solid waste. The 
Company has established a sound solid waste management system, and continues to pursue the comprehensive utilisation of solid waste. In 2019, the Company reduced the amount of solid waste by 5.1% year-on-year and increased the comprehensive utilisation rate of solid waste by 5.7% year-on-year. Hazardous waste was 100% disposed properly.
Sinopec Lubricant promotes green 
packaging and waste oil recycling
Joint Development of microbial disposal technology for hazardous wasteNon-hazardous solid waste 
(10,000 tonnes)1Hazardous waste 
(10,000 tonnes)2
Intensity of lubricant drum usage 
(amount of packaging materials used per tonne of product)
2017 2018 2019 
Target2019 2020 
Target0.08490.0820
0.08000.0771
0.07502018
Sulphur dioxide in exhaust gas 
(1,000 tonnes)222.90
50.5364.695.9
211.53
64.2367.299.8
2019
Nitrogen oxides in exhaust gas 
(1,000 tonnes)Note:
1. The total amount of non-hazardous industrial solid waste disposed by qualified third-parties.2. The total amount of hazardous solid waste disposed by qualified third-parties.
46 47
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentWater Resource Management
Water Consumption
Sinopec Corp. implements strict water use plan and target management, and adopts technically and economically feasible, safe and eco-friendly wa -
ter-saving measures and alternative solutions to reduce water consumption in production. Meanwhile, the Company constantly improves the reuse rate 
of industrial water and reduces the comprehensive loss rate in water use to realise efficient and scientific utilisation of water resources.
Used alternatives to fresh water: Used rainwater, river water and municipal reclaimed water at six sub -
sidiaries, and encouraged the comprehensive utilisation of seawater, brackish water and other unconven -
tional water resources to reduce fresh water consumption. 
Strengthened reuse of waste water (or sewage water): Oil fields subsidiaries implemented the “sewage 
for clean water” project and used treated sewage water that meets discharge standards to replace clean water in water injection. 
Promoted water-saving technologies: Applied advanced technologies, processes, equipment and infor -
mation technology to increase the efficiency of industrial water system, and implemented steam conden -
sate recycling and utilisation projects at three subsidiaries.
Prevented leakage: Carried out water balance examination and inspected water supply pipelines for 
leakage, upgrade old pipelines, and control water leakage.Water-saving 
TargetFresh water for industrial use decreases by no less than 1% each year.
Water-saving Achievement
Water-saving 
Measures650.36 7.1 1.1  %Sewage Discharge Management
In 2019, Sinopec Corp. carried out risk assessment for various water bodies in accordance with national and local discharge standards, conducted com-
prehensive investigation on the discharge of pollutants to control potential risks and make timely rectification, upgraded sewage treatment plants with denitrification and phosphorus removal facilities to improve the ef fectiveness of pre-treatment, and upgraded the online monitoring devices for sewage 
discharge to allow the real-time monitoring of nitrogen, phosphorus and other pollutants to ensure compliance with discharge standards.
As for ground water protection, the Company has established the Implementation Plan for Preliminary Investigation of Soil and Groundwater in the 
Lands Used by Sinopec Enterprises and organised the subsidiaries to conduct a survey to the groundwater in the place of operation. It is planned to have a preliminary understanding of the status of soil and groundwater in the lands used by the subsidiaries by the end of 2020, providing a reference for subsequent groundwater protection and remediation measures. 
In 2019, the total amount of the Company’s COD and ammonia nitrogen in discharged waste water were 19,000 tonnes and 1,960 tonnes respectively.
The volume of fresh water for industrial use in different segments (Unit: million cubic metres)
Oil fields Oil refinery Chemicals Specialised 
companiesTotal volume of  
fresh water for 
industrial use
115.2
112.5192.4
181.3304.15
317.3045.71
39.26657.46
650.36
2018 2019
Sewage Treatment Plant of Sinopec Jiujiang 15 ,539 millionFresh water for industrial used lowered by decreased by
million
cubic metersmillioncubic meters
48 49
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentLand Resource Management
Sinopec Corp. strengthens the management of land resources in accordance with the principle of intensive, efficient and green land use, requires the 
minimisation of the use of arable lands, restores damaged lands in a timely manner, and promotes the sustainable use of land resources. 
In 2019, the Company focused on the following measures in exploration and production:
Established the Emergency Plan for Maritime Disasters and the Emergen -
cy Plan Oil Spills at Sea according to the cases of maritime accidents at home and abroad and the Guide -
lines for the Preparation of National Emergency Plans; our subsidiaries formulated on-site emergency plans based on regional characteristics, improving emergency rescue system.The Company actively carried out withdrawal and reclamation of idle land from industrial uses. The safety and environmental risks of idle industrial and mining land were evaluated. For those land without safety and environmental risks was screened out and categorized, of which, the land located near farmland and eligible for reclamation was returned to the local government after reclamation.
Villagers harvesting cotton in reclaimed farm land in Sinopec Northwest Oilfield
Sheep grazing by the well in Sinopec Northwest Oilfield Oil Spill Management
The Company carried out oil spillage risk analysis and evaluation, strengthened emergency drills and training, improved oil spillage emergency plans, and built a professional response team. In 2019, there was no major oil spills occurred concerning Sinopec Corp.Land, except those permanently acquired for construction, would be restored and returned to farmers for reclamation strictly in accordance with relevant government regulations.Prioritised the use of “cluster well” design. In Fuling shale gas fields, all wells used the “cluster well” design, reducing the average land acquisition area per well by 30%. Innovated the “parent-child drilling site” layout, which utilises existing platforms efficiently to maximise well layout, reduce land use, and reduce construction cost. In 2019, more than ten existing platforms were used to expand production capacity, reusing more than 53 thousand square metres of land.
Formulated the medium- and long-term development plans for emergen -
cy equipment for ship escorting, oil spill recovery and emergency rescue. In 2019, the Company invested more than RMB20 million to upgrade emergency equipment, standardise the management of emergency equipment, and improve emergency support capabilities.Built an emergency response team capable of completing multiple tasks through emergency drills and regular training. In 2019, the Company under -
took or participated in more than ten maritime comprehensive emergency drills, involving more than 2,000 employees. 
Improving the reaction 
systemEnhancing the delivery 
of suppliesStrengthening emergency 
response in real scenariosSupporting the research on biodiversity conservation of Chongming IslandThe Company has included specific requirements on biodiversity in the feasibility study and environmental impact assessment of major investment projects. For instance, in the feasibility study of the Sinopec Corp. Guangxi Section of the Xinjiang Coal-to-Gas Pipeline Project in 2019, it is clearly proposed that ecological protection and restoration measures should be taken during the construction of the project, and specified the respective ecological protection measures for large and medium-sized rivers, source water areas, national wetland parks, etc. involved in the project. 
The Company regularly screens for hidden hazards and makes sure 
to mitigate or eliminate the impact. In 2019, the Company screened the ecological hidden hazards in 16 provinces along its natural gas pipelines, and took timely measures to eliminate or mitigate the potential negative impact regarding the 112 risk points identified.
The Company chooses to use technologies with less environmen -
tal impact in project construction in protected areas, such as the 
directional drilling and mud containment technologies used at the Ordos-Anping-Cangzhou Gas Pipeline Project, where the pipeline crosses the Majia River, and the China-Kuwait Refining and Chemical Integration Supporting Natural Gas Pipeline Project, where the pipe -
line goes through the mangrove reserve in Zhanjiang. Saudi Arabia Yanbu Refinery, a joint venture of Sinopec Corp., also paid close attention during construction to protect the mangrove areas near its pipeline route.Biodiversity Conservation
In accordance with the relevant regulations of the Environmental Protection Law and the Convention on Biodiversity, Sinopec Corp. has dedicated a 
section of the Measures for the Environmental Protection Management of Sinopec Corp . to biodiversity conservation. In 2019, the Company formulated 
the Measures for the Management of Ecological Protection of Sinopec Corp ., requiring stricter management of projects involving ecologically-sensitive 
regions. In 2019, there was no major harmful incidents to biodiversity occurred concerning Sinopec Corp.
“All units shall practice strict production and operation management, reduce the disturbance of production and operation activities to the ecological environment, conserve biodiversity and ensure ecological security.”
——Measures for the Management of Ecological 
Protection of Sinopec Corp.
Chongming Island wetland, located in the Yangtze River Estuary, is the largest sandy wetland in the world. In 2019, Sinopec Shanghai Oil Marketing Company signed a strategic cooperation agreement with local universities to use company-owned land in west Chongming Island for field observation activities of the wetland ecosystem in the Yangtze River Estuary. The two parties jointly established an ecolog-ical monitoring & research station to provide support for the observation of water quality and wildlife in the Yangtze River Estuary and nearby areas, and the study on the impact of production and operation activities on local water environment and wildlife.
50 51
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentSinopec Corp. takes safety as its top priority in production and operation, strictly complies with 
the requirements of the Production Safety Law and other laws and regulations, strictly imple-ments HSSE management system, and effectively manages safety risks in key areas and key links. Meanwhile, The Company regularly carries out safety risk assessment and management, strengthens the emergency management command system, raises the safety awareness of employees and contractors to prevent all kinds of accidents in an all-round way, which provides security guarantee for the sustainable development of the Company.03Safety Management
52 53
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentSinopec Corp. has formulated rules such as Regulations on Management of Dual Preventive Mechanisms of Production Safety Risk Hierarchical Con -
trol and Hidden Danger Screening and Management and Guiding Opinions on Safety Risk Assessment to clarify the norms and detailed implementation 
rules for safety risk and hidden danger screening. At the same time, relying on the unified management platform for risk assessment (PHAMS), the Company tracks the risk management and control process, realizing dynamic risk management.Risk Identification and Management
Conducted hazard and operability analysis (HAZOP) for 
in-service equipment and evaluated their safety integrity, and improved safety risk control measures for key equipment. Implemented quantitative management of safety risks, 
calculated the total risk value of the Company and its subsid -
iaries, defined the target of reducing the total risk value and conducted annual assessment. In 2019, the total risk value of the Company was reduced by 18%, and the total risk values of major production enterprises were also reduced.
Released real-time disaster forecasts and early warnings 
during flood season to alert people about possible safety risks. In 2019, there was no safety accidents or secondary or deriva -
tive disasters caused by natural disasters.Safety risk 
management
Safety personnel marking safety inspection check points with handheld intelligent terminalProduction Safety
Safety Management Measures
Focused on compiling and revising 
standards for risk assessment technol-ogy, identification and protection of liquid ammonia and hydrogen sulphide leakage risk, selection and mainte -
nance of arresters, and has estab -
lished and improved safety technical norms.
Built a voluntary emergency 
response team with well-defined man -
agement and motivation mechanism, and improved the team’s emergency response capability through skill competition and special training.
Established a dedicated emer -
gency response team and a national emergency rescue team for hazardous chemicals and oil and gas pipelines, providing safety support for various maintenance operations and partici -
pating in external needs for emergen -
cy and accident rescue.Organised safety supervision and 
monitoring personnel at construc -
tion sites to participate in hands-on trainings on high-risk operation safety supervision and on-site operation monitoring, etc.
Completed a three-year com -
prehensive inspection of hazardous chemicals. 
Completed the compliance check 
of the updated version of Fire Preven-
tion Code of Petrochemical Enterprise Design.
Carried out system-wide and 
whole-process screening and rectifica -
tion of hydrogen sulphide hazards.
Carried out special screening and 
rectification activities on hazardous waste storage, air separation equip -
ment, bottled gas, and fire control safety. Formulated the Senior Manage-
ment Personnel Post Safety Pro -
duction Responsibility System , and 
revised and improved the responsi -
bility system for safety production of departments (units) of the headquar -
ters.
Implemented the safety score 
management for all employees and its subsidiaries have formulated imple -
mentation rules and strengthen the safety responsibility consciousness of all employees. 
Clarified the “criteria for serious 
violations” and standardised safety management.
Formulated the Ten Measures to 
Strengthen Safety Management of Direct Operation , and strengthened 
the safety control over contractors and direct operation by strengthening the owner’s main responsibility, improving safety technical measures, special operation monitoring and video moni -
toring, etc.Specifying safety 
responsibilityDeveloping safety 
technological standards 
Building a dedicated 
emergency response teamStrengthening 
operation safetyPromoting hands-on 
safety training
Screening and rectification 
of safety hazardsEstablished a safety risk list and conducted regular com -
prehensive risk identification and assessment, and updated the list in real time. In 2019, 816 production safety risks were identified, 113 of which were labelled as major risks. All safety risk matters were assigned to respective senior management and functional managers based on risk level, who would be responsible for the management of the risk matter and held accountable. 
54 55
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentIn 2019, Sinopec Corp. listed contractor safety as a major risk and optimised contractor safety by improving contractor safety skills, enhancing safety 
awareness, strengthening business subcontracting management, so as to encourage contractors to improve safety management and prevent safety accidents. 
The Company’s logistics safety risks mainly come from hazardous chemicals transportation and carrier traffic accidents. Sinopec Corp. has formulated a safety management system for hazardous chemicals transportation carriers to them help improve their HSSE management, and carried out on-site inspections and carrier inspection to encourage carriers to improve safety management. Besides, the Company continued to explore the supply mode of hazardous chemicals and worked with carriers and partners to ensure the logistics safety across the whole process. In 2019, no serious chemical transportation accident that has to be reported occurred.Implemented the contractor safety commitment mechanism 
and the special supplier safety system audit mechanism, and implemented the enterprise audit publicity system. 
Selected high-performing enterprises in the contractor safety 
management system as demonstration models, and standardised the procedures and processes for contractor safety management and operation safety management. Provided on-site training for contractors of major construction 
and maintenance projects, and examined and evaluated the effectiveness of the training.
Continuously monitored the safety management of suppliers, 
ensured all major issues identified get rectified, and held repeat -
ed violating enterprises or individuals accountable.
Meanwhile, the Company has formulated Management Measures for Scoring and Quantitative Assessment of Construction Project Contractors , and 
built the contractor management information platform for whole-process assessment of contractors’ behaviours in the form of event records, with safety and quality included. In 2019, 16 contractors who violated the safety management system were punished, of which seven were restricted from bidding, and nine were criticised in a circulated notice or given a warning. 
Strengthened the eligibility management of logistics service providers, es -
tablished and improved the quality, safety and environmental protection management system, and signed safety agreements with logistics service pro -
viders to specify the safety accountability. Strengthened transpor -
tation safety manage -
ment of carriers in abnormal weather and geological disasters, enhanced communica -
tion and supervision to ensure uninterrupted production and market supply after natural disasters.Set up a database of self-pick-up logistics service providers of hazardous chemi -
cals, and conducted third-party on-site assessment of them to reduce operation risks. Contractor Safety
Logistics Safety
As information technology has deeply penetrated into the Company’ s production and operation in various fields and business links, network and 
information risks may have a significant adverse impact on the Company . In 2019, the Company identified major risks such as cyber-attacks, computer 
viruses and data security. To protect its information infrastructure and data from cyber-attacks, the Company has constructed an information platform 
for network security risk management by establishing network security protocols, network security protection system, and the maintenance mechanism for information infrastructure and application system. In 2019, there was no incident of cyber-attacks or major network security incident occurred at the Company.
Sinopec Corp. carries out security management strictly in accordance with the principle that “risk assessment before operation”. The Company has 
established an overseas public security management system focusing on risk assessment and control, risk prevention and guarantee, emergency 
response and disposal as well as supervision and inspection, and has selected sites for overseas institutions and provided security forces according to different risk levels and local social and natural conditions. The Company has strengthened its ability to collect and analyse security information to im -
prove the timeliness, relevance and effectiveness of security alert. By 2019, the Company had achieved “zero death” from overseas security incidents for 12 consecutive years.
Revised and issu-ed Standards for Risk Assess-ment of Overseas Security, and carried out 319 risk assessments.Established health records for employ -
ees and took proper precautions against infectious diseases overseas.Prepared the 2018 Country Risk Report and Country Risk Reminders  
for overseas staff, providing security suggestions based on relevant country risk information.Conducted overseas security training to help employees under -
stand overseas security challenges and learn the basic safety skills such as CPR, covering 5,073 employees. Evaluated the security capabil -
ities of overseas institutions and projects, and made timely rectification of identified cases of “insufficient secu-rity”.    Strengthened the construction of the network security system, perfected and formulated the Rules for Management of 
Internet Application Security, Management Measures for Key Information Infrastruc -
ture.
Built the Sinopec Safety Emergency Response Centre 
(SSRC) and set up a network security technical team to track the network security situation and improve the ability to handle early warnings of network security threats.     Carried out network security evaluation and assessment for its subsidiaries, which is directly linked to the performance evaluation of the persons in charge of subsidiaries.    Established the network security information disclosure mechanism, regularly released the developments on network security work and various safety rectification notifications, and tracked and retested the rectification progress of potential safety.    Carried out screening of network se -
curity vulnerabilities and hidden hazards, and rectified high-risk problems. Information Safety
Security
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Overseas security investment (RMB10,000) 668 470 534
Overseas security training participation (person-times) 5,129 3,720 5,073Indicators 2017 2018 2019 2020 Target
Percentage of contractors qualified 
by the QHSE management system100 100 100 100
Actions in 2019:
Piloted the in-transit monitoring devise to strengthen in-transit monitoring and man -
agement.Promoted the inspec -
tion and certification of hazardous chemicals vehicles and vessels, verified their eligibil -
ity together with the eligibility of personnel, urging logistics service providers to fulfil their safety responsibility.
56 57
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentCompliance is the bottom line for an enterprise and the cornerstone of its sustainable develop-
ment. To build an enterprise with integrity, Sinopec Corp. abides by government regulations on integrity and anti-corruption and the laws and regulations of the countries and regions where it operates, continuously improves the integrity and compliance management system, builds the integrity culture of “keeping promises and operating in compliance”, makes every effort to promote anti-corruption and ensure the implementation of the relevant regulations and the enforcement of the disciplinary mechanism.04Compliance 
58 59
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentIn 2019, the Company formulated and issued the Integrity and Compliance Management Handbook, which stipulates 80 basic codes of conduct appli -
cable in ten key fields. Employees could access the handbook through the mobile platforms and the Sinopec Online Academy. Approximately 150,000 
employees participated in the “Compliance Commitment” campaign.
10 Key Areas in the Integrity 
and Compliance Management 
HandbookCorporate 
governance 
and operationHealth, 
Safety, Security 
and Environ -
ment (HSSE)
Anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption
Consumer 
protection
Taxes and 
assetsAntitrust and 
unfair competi -
tionSocial 
responsibility 
and employee 
rightsIntellectual 
property, data 
and informa -
tionInternational 
trade and 
investmentBusiness 
partnersStrictly abiding by national tax policies and regulations, Sinopec Corp. 
insists on paying taxes legally and paid RMB317.7 billion in taxes and fees in 2019. Meanwhile, the Company abides by the laws and reg -
ulations of the country where it operates, including compliance with local tax regulations. Please refer to the China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation Report on Payments to Governments that we release every year for detailed information.
The Company discloses information required by law and voluntary 
information in accordance with its information disclosure system to ensure transparency. Sinopec Corp. is continuously rated Class A which is the highest reward by the Shanghai Stock Exchange for information disclosure. Regarding overseas projects, the Company takes the initiative to communicate with stakeholders based on local conditions and cultural background, discloses the environmental and social impact assessment information of projects, which is highly recognised by local government, people and employees. 
In 2019, the Company upgraded the Business Information Disclosure 
System to add 16 new types of data for disclosure and strengthen the interconnection between the system to data from different busi -
ness systems, such as the Contract System, the Project Bidding and Tendering System, and the Procurement System, realising higher transparency of its various business operations. More than 4,629,800 pieces of information were disclosed at the Business Information Disclosure System in 2019.Transparency and Compliance
The Company established Supervisory Committee, which is responsible for formulating the guidelines and key measures for anti-corruption, identifying and studying compliance risks that may affect the sustainable development of the Company, holding regular meetings of the Supervisory Committee, researching and deploying key supervision tasks, and supervising and ensuring the timely improvement of issues identified. Chairman of the Board acts as the Chair of the Supervisory Committee. The Company implements a two-level Supervisory Committee system at the headquarters and subsidiaries level respectively, fully covering the supervision of the Board, senior management, and all organisations and personnel with management and operation authorities to exercise. The Company also established the Discipline Inspection and Supervision Department, which reports to the Supervisory Commit -
tee, and is responsible for the daily integrity and anti-corruption management of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as managing the evaluation and accountability of the integrity and anti-corruption management at the subsidiaries of the Company.
The Company organises training on anti-corruption every year, and raises anti-corruption awareness by issuing documents, holding warning education 
conferences and watching warning education films, with 100% of employees covered and awareness raised in anti-corruption. The Company regards 
senior and middle-level managers as the key objects of anti-corruption supervision and management. Violations will be dealt with according to their severity by regulations, and will be notified at semi-annual and annual work meetings to strengthen warning education and promote the construction of incorruptible culture.The Company formulated the Code of Conduct for Employees  to regulate employees’ daily behaviours. Every year, employees at key positions are 
required to sign the Business Ethics Agreement to commit themselves to abiding by business ethics. 
In addition, management staff and employees who are also CPC members are also required to abide by certain regulations of the Party, including 
the CPC Code of Integrity and CPC Self-Discipline, CPC Regulations on Disciplinary Actions and CPC Accountability Regulations , and are subject to 
subversion. 
The Company established smooth complaint handling mechanism consisting of mail box, whistle-blowing hotline and email, etc. The Company formulat -
ed procedures for recording and handling the reported complaints, verifying evidence, and giving feedback to who submits the complaint. The identity of 
the whistle-blower will be strictly kept confidential to protect their legitimate rights. The Company signs the Letters of Responsibility for Business Ethics  with its contractors and suppliers, which specifies that in case of corruption, they 
will be disqualified and their transactions with the Company will be discontinued, and they will be banned from any business cooperation with Sinopec 
Corp. for the next three years. Violators with severe cases will be blacklisted by the Company. The Company strictly implements the above regulations. In 2019, a total of 14 suppliers were disciplined for violating the Letters of Responsibility for Business Ethics .The Company shall firmly abide by China’s anti-cor-ruption laws and regulations, observe the United Nations Convention against Corruption , comply with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws applicable in the countries (regions) where the Company conducts business, comply with the integrity and anti-corruption regulations and commitments of the Company and its business partners and strengthen the development of a clean enterprise culture. The Company and its employees shall not engage in or accept commercial bribery or corruption in any territory for any reason or in any form. The Company always strictly abides by anti-corruption and anti-commercial bribery principles and regulations mentioned above when conducting overseas business and investment. More details about the Company's overseas upstream assets and refining and chemical assets are disclosed in the "Company Profile" section of this COP.Rules and 
PoliciesThe Company has formulated a number of systems to provide system guarantee for integrity and anti-corruption management, including Plans on Reforming Supervision Mechanism , Regulation on the Punishment of Employees who 
Violate Disciplines or Regulations , the Opinions on Strengthening Daily Supervision of Discipline Inspection and Super -
vision Institutions (Trial) and the Guidelines on Strengthening the Prevention and Control of Overseas Integrity Risk .
Anti-corruption trainings 
(10,000 participants) Number of integrity and anti-
corruption training activities 
(10,000 times)Coverage of anti-corruption 
trainings (%)Participation of integrity and 
anti-corruption training
(10,000 person-times) 
112.1
1.3100% 100% 100%
57.9123.8
1.767.3114.3
1.559.6
2017 2018 2019Anti-corruption System
Enhancing Anti-corruption Awareness
60 61
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentSinopec Corp. strictly complies with laws and regulations on human rights protection, the 
National Human Rights Action Plan of China and international human rights conventions, and prohibits any act of disregard or abuse of human rights. We strictly abide by China’s Regulation on Prohibiting the Use of Child Labour  and relevant laws and regulations in overseas markets 
and prohibit the use of child labour. We respect the employees’ right of personal freedom and the right to take leave, and prohibit the use of forced labour. We respect the rights and interests of female employees and ethnic minority employees, and strictly prohibit any form of discrim-ination, such as due to gender, ethnicity, religion and nationality. Meanwhile, we abide by the requirements of laws and regulations such as the Labour Law of China and the relevant regu-lations in where we operate, fully protect employee rights and ensure occupational health and safety, optimise the career development channels for employees, promote the comprehensive management of occupational, physical and mental health of employees, and strive to grow together with our employees.05Respecting Human Rights
62 63
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentEmployee Protection
Sinopec Corp. adheres to principles of equal consultation, and mutual benefit and win-win results, protects the rights and interests of employees in 
accordance with relevant laws and regulations, and strives to build a harmonious and stable employment relationship with employees.
The Company signs written labour contracts with employees in accor -
dance with the principle of “equality, willingness and consensus” and all terms of the contract are complete and in compliance with laws. The Company has also formulated rele -
vant management policies to ensure the labour contracts are strictly implemented.
The Company treats female employ -
ees equally and adheres to the prin -
ciple of equal pay for equal work. The Company treats minority employees equally and is committed to creating a diverse workplace.The Company has established the Female Employee Committee under the labour union, and includes specif -
ic articles in labour contract to protect the rights of female employees and their rights to maternity leave, nursing leave and regular health examination.
The Company takes salary as an im -
portant incentive for employees, and has established a multi-dimensional salary system based on position, capability and performance, which consists of basic salary, performance bonus, mid-term and long-term incen -
tive, welfare, honour recognition, and career development supports.The Company provides employees with proper social insurance, such as pension, medical, work-related injury, maternity and unemployment insurances, in accordance with state and local regulations. We set up enterprise annuity system covers all employees. Some of the subsidiaries also provide employees with supple -
mentary medical insurance.The Company ensures the employ -
ees’ right to maintain regular working hours and take proper leave and vacation, and makes sure that em -
ployees with irregular work shifts or hired on an aggregate working hours system have appropriate work shift and rest to ensure work-life balance.Employment Diversity and equal opportunity Protection of female employees
Salary system Social insurance Leave and vacation system
402,206 33.8  %
100  % 3.7  %As of the end of 2019Employee Health
Sinopec Corp. takes employee health as a top management priority. The Company integrates its health management resources to continuously improve the prevention and control of occupational disease and protect the health of our employees.
Carried out noise distribution and impact assessment of typical devices, and shared the experience of noise control among subsidiaries; imple -
mented the inspection of centralised air conditioning units in densely popu -
lated areas to ensure air quality meet standards.In 2019, the Company carried out assessment of occupational disease hazards and occupational health and safety risks, and prevented occupational hazards from occurring from the source by providing protective equipment and gears and conducting occupational health examinations.
Equipped flame retardant and anti-stat-ic labour protection outfit to positions with high fire and explosion risks in refining and chemical subsidiaries; carried out a company-wide inspection of air respirators to ensure its proper management. Maintained employee health records, organised annual physical examination for all employees, assessed employee health status, and formulated and implemented the “specific measures for specific person” intervention approach for high health risk health; Strengthened the employee assis -
tance programme (EAP) to promote employee psychological health and crisis prevention. Strictly control 
occupational hazardsStandardise management of 
protective equipmentPromote physical and 
mental health of employeesZero injury
Workplace meets all dust and hazardous 
material concentration standards.
Targets
Total number of employees Percentage of female employees (%)
Percentage of employees with labour union membership (%)Percentage of ethnic minority employees (%)
64 65
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentCareer Development
Sinopec Corp. regards talents as a core capital of an enterprise, firmly sticks to the new concept of talent development and pursues talent-driven growth 
of the Company. We encourage our employees to improve their capabilities and support employees’ career development, which in return will contribute to provide the talent pool for the Company to achieve high-quality development.
Formulated the Measures for Talent Growth Channels of Sinopec 
Corp., and established a talent development mechanism with “vertical mobility and horizontal connectivity”. The Company also researched and promoted the development of the talent standard system, opti -
mised the evaluation mechanism for career promotions, and carried out pilot projects of assessment of professional skill levels.
Implemented the Talent Attraction Programme to attract leading tech -
nology talents and key talents of new businesses; optimised talent 
allocation and assigned more talents to new projects and overseas projects.Optimising Career Platform
Signed a strategic agreement with Imperial College London in the UK to jointly train 40 young technology talents, organised the first Young Science and Technology Elite Competition and the “Future of Sinopec” Youth Forum, and implemented the “Talent + Project” model to create a team of Sinopec Future Scientists.
In 2019, the Company had six employees acclaimed as academi -
cians of Chinese Academy of Engineering, “Leading Technological 
Innovation Talents of the Ten Thousand Talents Plan” and the “National Candidates of the Hundred-Thousand-Ten Thousand Project”. The Company also recognised 80 employees as “Sinopec Expert with Outstanding Contribution”, and awarded 100 employees the “Min Enze Young Technology Talent Award”. We hosted national class-II competitions and organised 15 company-wide skill competitions.Improving the talent development ecology Increasing the cultivation of key talents
In 2019, Sinopec Corp. cooperated with Imperial College London in the UK and jointly founded the Sinopec-Imperial College London Resource Geophysics Academy, to conduct jointly training and research in the geophysics field with GBP11 million from Sinopec Corp. and the research and teaching resources of the Imperial College London. The programme not only supports the cultivation of PhD students in the petrochemical field, but also provides training and joint research opportunities for its employees.Cultivating Talents with Jointly Efforts2,860Experts  hired Senior technologists 
or higher titles
Chief expertsSenior masters
Employees with senior 
(professor-level) titles15 45
137 1466 47
1,282As of the end of 2019Caring for Employees
Sinopec Corp. strives to forge a community of shared future with its employees, and cares for employees and provides them with all-around support, 
aiming to further improve the cohesion and sense of belonging of its employees.In 2019, the Company completed the compilation of the Employee Training Plan (2019-2023) of Sinopec Corp ., establishing a systematic training 
system and vocational skill improvement plan. We strengthened quality training and professional technical talents training for management talents and 
technical talents in a systematic way. Meanwhile, we coordinated our efforts to improve the coverage and effectiveness of training by implementing key training programmes and online training.
Optimised the training system for management personnel, explored the establishment of a training system for professional and technical personnel, 
skilled personnel, and international personnel, and carried out a number of targeted training programmes for key talents, such as management person -
nel training, high-level expert training, and country expert training. Provided trainings to 3,100 key talents, 765 senior professional and technical talents, and 237 skilled talents within the year.
In 2019, the Company invested over RMB850 million in vocational training, covering 78.2% of employees with a total participation of 985,600 
person-times; while its annual online training participation reached 5.01 million person-times, with a total of 10.19 million hours of online learning.
Increased employees’ sense of belonging and create a harmoni -
ous and encouraging workplace by promoting the Family Culture with internal newspapers, bulletin boards, WeChat, etc.
The Company continues to implement EAP programmes and provide employees with caring and psychological counselling. In 2019, we carried out pre-job training on mental health and sent out relevant alerts, promoted the EAP Classroom programme, organised themed training, and provided 10,079 psychological counselling sessions through Heart Happiness Counselling EAP platform. 
We organised health assessment for employees to be posted overseas, and maintained health records of them to track their health status and provide 
timely assistance if needed. In 2019, the Company carried out special alerts, disease prevention training and travel alerts against Ebola, measles, ma -
laria and other major infectious disease risks identified for overseas travels, and provided traffic safety training and alerts regarding overseas locations with high traffic accident rate. The Company has also purchased commercial insurance for all employees posted overseas, to ensure that they could get timely assistance if they have accident.Employee training
Promoted the application and coverage of the Sinopec Online Academy platform, promoting the digital and intelligent transformation of training with data, AI, 5G and other technologies to realise customised and targeted training.Training of Key Talents
Online Training
Improved the working and living conditions for employees by optimiz -
ing workplace layout, improving logistics and living quarter conditions, and providing sports and leisure equipment;Increased the income of grass-roots employees and make them feel rewarding by optimizing performance appraisal methodology, integrating factors such as salary composition, perfor-mance, labour intensity, and living standards, etc.;Promoted employee growth and devel -
opment by creating development platforms such as skill competi -
tions, benchmarking and learning competition, and employee innova -
tion studios; andEncouraged our em -
ployees to participate in corporate decision-mak -
ing, supervision, man -
agement, and innovation and efficiency improve -
ment activities, and provide suggestions on the Company’s reform and development.
employees with senior 
technologists or higher titlesEmployees with senior technologist title
66 67
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentSinopec Corp. is fully aware that to become a respected everlasting enterprise, an enterprise 
needs to realise mutual benefit and win-win cooperation with its partners, and coexist with society harmoniously. Adhering to the principle of “mutual benefit and win-win cooperation” and strictly abiding by laws and regulations such as the Product Quality Law of China, Sinopec Corp. strives to meet its quality target of “quality first and quantity sufficient, customer satisfac-tion”, sticks to responsible production and operation, and constantly improves its value con-tribution to suppliers, customers and the industry. Meanwhile, the Company actively fulfils its social responsibility, creates job opportunities for local communities, and support public welfare assistance actions, and strive to become a first-class corporate citizen, aiming at becoming a world-class corporate citizen.06Contributing to Society
68 69
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentAs of the end of 2019, Sinopec Corp. had 18,646 supplies from 66 industries in China. The Company has established a sound supplier integrity system 
and ensured the suppliers meet quality requirement. We also vigorously advocate the concept of responsible procurement and have integrated HSSE Management System, pollutant discharge, and tax compliance into our supplier management policies, providing important reference for supplier evaluation and on-site assessment of suppliers and encouraging them to continuously improve the quality of their products and services, as well as their environmental protection awareness and capabilities. Meanwhile, we developed an industrial ecological network focusing on e-commerce platforms such as EPEC and Sinopec Chememall, which have promoted the comprehensive service capability of the value chain, allowing upstream and downstream value chain partners to achieve better coordination and mutual benefits.
Building a responsible supply chain Grow together with value chain partners
     Added eligibility requirements related to environmental protection, such as pollution discharge permits, energy management system certifications, green product and low-carbon product certifications, evaluating suppliers on environmental protection, resource conserva -
tion and sustainable development.     Revised the supplier on-site inspection and assessment stan -
dards, and added environmental management system certification, safety management system certification, workplace safety emergency management system, labour protection measures, and discharge and waste disposal into the evaluation standards, and increased the weights of occupational health, safety and environmental manage -
ment in on-site assessment.     Organised supplier training regularly, issued higher requirements for suppliers on anti-corruption, environmental protection and safety management, and provided a total of over 4,700 person-times of supplier sales training in 2019.     Focusing on its e-commerce platform for the petrochemical industry, Sinopec Chememall, Sinopec Corp. integrated the upstream and downstream industrial chain and the supply chain between enterprises and promoted the contract procurement mode, to ensure efficient and stable supply-demand relationship with suppliers. As of the end of 2019, the platform had 9,992 customers, and 630,000 tonnes of online spot and auction transactions and 36.4 million tonnes of contract transactions conducted over the platform within the year.     Aiming at becoming a global comprehensive promotion, service and trade platform for industrial trade, EPEC makes possible the complete connectivity of the industrial chain, supply chain, service chain and capital chain. As of the end of 2019, EPEC had 1,521 online suppliers offering about 13,000 products, and about 12,000 buyer companies, with businesses covering 104 countries and regions.
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Percentage of suppliers qualified by QHSE management system (%) 26.7 26.0 31.1
Number of suppliers qualified by the quality management system (ISO 9000) 9,265 9,614 9,312
Percentage of suppliers qualified by the quality management system (ISO 9000)(%)52.9 47.3 49.9
Number of suppliers qualified by the environmental management system (ISO 14000)5,442 6,071 6,463
Percentage of suppliers qualified by the environmental management system (ISO 14000) (%)31.1 29.9 34.7
Number of suppliers qualified by the occupational health and safety manage-ment system (ISO 18000)4,839 5,621 6,108
Percentage of suppliers qualified by the occupational health and safety man-agement system (ISO 18000) (%)27.7 27.7 32.8
Percentage of the procurement of top five equipment and materials suppliers in total procurement (%)7.2 4.9 5.3
Percentage of the procurement of top five crude oil suppliers in total crude oil procurement (%)48.8 46.6 49.1Value Chain Management
Sinopec Corp. continuously strengthens its quality management system and improves service standards, aiming at providing customers with better products and services. Meanwhile, the Company closely follows customer needs, explores new businesses, properly handles customer complaints and protects customer privacy, and protects the fundamental rights and interests of customers.
Quality Management
The Company have formulated the Sinopec Quality Management System  in accordance with our quality standard of “quality first and quantity sufficient, 
customer satisfaction”, and have established and implement a quality management system aligned with multiple quality standards to ensure the quality of products remain stable and reliable. In order to ensure the supply of quality oil products to consumers, we strictly manage the quality of purchased oil products, ensure reliable sourcing with standardised procurement processes, and terminate cooperation with suppliers fail to meet quality standards repeatedly.
In 2019, the Company’s oil products received over 31,000 spot inspections from external parties, and all of them met relevant quality standards. There has been no quality inci -
dent with reportable significance for five consecutive years. Produced a total of 39,374 batches of lubricants during the year, and 100% of the batches passed passing internal inspections; 70 batches were sampled to receive third-party inspection and also passed with a 100% passing rate.Oil products Lubricants
Service Improvement
Sinopec Corp. is committed to creating value for customers with high-quality service, and continuously enhancing its service awareness and improving service quality. In 2019, the Company officially established the Sinopec Corp. Customer Service Centre at the headquarters, providing human customer service hotline (95388) and realising the coordinated handling of company-wide customer service requests and the communication and coordination across business units.
The Company conducts customer satisfaction surveys regularly to continuously optimise its service.
Conducted customer satisfaction survey to collect feedback 
and suggestions from refuel card customers nationwide for 12 consecutive years. In 2019, the survey received 42,576 valid responses and resulted in a comprehensive score of 86.15, a steady increase from the previous year. Distributed 3,536 satisfaction survey questionnaires over the year, and received 3,494 responses with a 98.8% response rate. The average customer satisfaction score is 89.2, with 80.9% of customers surveyed thought our service had improved.Customer satisfaction survey at service stations Customer satisfaction survey of Sinopec Chemical 
Marketing CompanyWith Customers
70 71
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentThe Company has formulated and regularly improves the process to handle customer complaints, to ensure questions and complaints from customers 
are responded to and addressed timely. Once received, a typical complaint will be handled within 24 hours; a major complaint shall be investigated and solved within 48 hours, and reported to superiors right away; a complex complaint shall be solved within 72 hours; and a complaint requiring technical appraisal or certification shall be handled, and the customer shall be replied to within 48 hours after the appraisal result is received.
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Number of fuel card holders (million) 132 146 168
Customer satisfaction for refined oil products (%) 84.09 85.08 86.15
Customer complaint settlement rate for refined oil products (%) 100 100 100
Number of EasyJoy convenience stores 25,775 27,259 27,606
Customer satisfaction for chemical products (%) 91.5 93.1 89.2
Customer complaint settlement rate for chemical products (%) 100 100 100
Business innovation and convenient service
The Company pays close attention to meet the needs of customers, and applies Internet technology to create innovative businesses and provide cus -
tomers with greater choices as well as better service experience.
Developed the e-wallet function for individual customers, giving customers a more convenient payment channel;
Implemented the “Internet + Service Station + Convenience 
Store + Third Party” business model, building a nationwide online shopping mall on mobile network offering both online and offline interactive shopping experience; and
Set up the Ejoy365HK.com cross-border e-commerce plat -
form, providing consumers with reliable goods they want.
The Company attaches great importance to the protection of customer privacy. For the online business hall of fuel card, refined oil e-commerce website, 
WeChat marketing platform and other Internet applications, we have applied multiple measures to enhance their security, including physical security, network security, data security and application security, and hired a third-party, the Information Security Rating Centre, to carry out security evaluations and rectified the identified issues timely. We carried out special network security exercise to identify and eliminate risks and prevent the occurrence of breaching of customer information and privacy. Regarding chemical products customers, we strengthened the governance of the access to customer information of our employees, standardise the authorisation process to protect customer information from leaking.Integrated services Online service
Customer privacy protectionVigorously developed automobile service projects to meet the demand for car wash service, adding 2,216 automobile service stations in 2019, with a total of 6273 service stations completed cumulatively;
Innovated on the franchise model with established fast 
food brand to speed up the development of the fast food business;
Piloted the EasyJoy Coffee at eight service stations in 
Jiangsu Province; and
Launched purified water distribution business in 145 key 
cities.
New services of EasyJoy coffee and car washing at service station.
72 73
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentCooperated with upstream and 
downstream partners in the lubricant industry chain to found the China Lubricant Industry Innovation Alliance, promoting the research on core technologies and the application of re-search achievements in the lubricant industry chain.The Company actively leverages its expertise and influence and participates in promoting industry development, supporting industry innovation and development in various ways, such as scientific research, industry standard formulation, and experience sharing, etc.Sinopec Corp. adheres to the concept of “serving communities and making contributions to local economy”, and promotes the coordinated economic, environmental and social development of where it operates with tax payment, job creation and project investment. For overseas projects, the Company only retains the necessary number of expatriates and hires as many local talents as possible based on the implementation stage of the projects.
Promoting Industry Development Community Engagement
Participated in the standard setting work of the Hazardous and Chemical Logistics Society under China Federa-tion of Logistics and Procurement and jointly developed the Management 
Specification for Shared Synthetic Resin Pallet.Collaborated with universities and research institutions in China and established six joint R&D centres in the fields of molecular chemical engineering, chemical process strengthening, automobile lightweight, fine chemicals, photoelectric materials and artificial intelligence.Establishing industry 
associationParticipating in 
standard settingSupporting technological 
research
Saudi Arabia Yanbu Refinery: Supporting Local Economic and Social Development
Saudi Arabia Yanbu Refinery is first overseas refining and chemical joint venture project of Sinopec Corp. The Company strictly abides by local laws and regulations on labour, financial management and taxation, and safety and environmental protection, and strives to promote local employment and development. In 2019, the employee localisation rate of Yanbu Refinery reached 86%. The project has provided 
about 6,000 job opportunities directly and indirectly, and helped promote local talent development with employee training and internship opportunities for college students. We combine the local resources endowment and our expertise in technology and production to provide high-quality gasoline and diesel products to the local community.
Implemented local hiring and procurement to create employment opportunities and promote the development of local enterprises. The Company’s employee localisation rates in Colombia, Angola and at the joint venture in Russia were 98%, 59% and 31% respectively; andRespecting the cultural heritage of local employees, and organised communication, cultural and sports activities for employees to promote cross-cultural integration.
Sinopec Corp. participated the 3rd Western China International Fair Import and Export Expo & Western China (Sich-uan) International
74 75
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentSinopec Lifeline Express 
Programme
Sanitation Workers' Stations 
ProgrammeWarm Stations Programme
Beach Cleaning in Hong KongSince 2004, we have been participating in the Lifeline Express 
Programme. During the 16 years, we have donated over RMB180 million to the programme, provided free surgery for more than 46,000 low-income cataract patients from 38 regions of 18 provinces and municipalities, and donated 21 Sinopec Cataract Treatment Centres. In 2019, we donated RMB24.46 million to support the technical upgrade and maintenance of the of the Sinopec Lifeline Express vehicles, and provided free cataract surgery to 2,376 patients.
We open the service stations up to sanitation workers, giving 
them a place sheltered from the weathers where they could take a rest and have some water. As of the end of 2019, we had set up 2,348 service stations as designated Sanitation Workers’ Stations nationwide for sanitation workers Since 2013, we have been launching the Warm Station, Going Home with Love programme at our service stations to help home bound migrant workers before the Chinese New Year, providing free refuels and various service to make the trav -
ellers feel welcome and comfortable, such as hot porridge, ginger drink, lounge and nursing room, making the way home a warm journey. In 2019, we designated 248 service stations in Guangdong, Guangxi, Jiangxi and Guizhou provinces as Warm Stations, and organised more than 5,000 youth volunteers in cooperation with the Guangdong Provincial Committee of the Youth League. In the last seven years, more than 35,000 volunteers have worked for this programme and assisted a total of over 40 million travellers accumulatively.
Our subsidiaries in Hong Kong have been carrying out beach 
cleaning activities for eight consecutive years. Our employees and their formed a “Hong Kong Beach and Park Group”, and or -
ganised volunteer beach and park cleaning activities in holidays to protect the local marine environment. As of the end of 2019, 53 cleaning activities had been organised, participated by more than 1400 employee volunteers.
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Number of patients cured under the Lifeline Express Programme 3,126 3,012 2,376Sinopec Corp. attaches great importance to caring for disadvantaged groups and promoting the standardisation and development of public welfare undertakings. The Company has launched a number of brand public welfare projects, and continuously innovates on public welfare practice based on the conditions and needs of local communities.Key Performance
Economic Performance
Operational and financial performance
Energy production and supplyIndicators 2017 2018 2019
Total assets (RMB billion) 1,595.5 1,592.3 1,755.1
Total liabilities (RMB billion) 741.4 734.6 878.2
Revenue (RMB billion) 2,360.2 2,891.2 2,966.2
Net profits attributable to shareholders of the Com-
pany (RMB billion)51.12 63.09 57.6
Dividends declared (RMB billion) 60.54 50.85 37.53
Dividends pay-out ratio (%) 118.4 80.6 65.2
Taxes and fees paid (RMB billion) 328.3 324.6 317.7
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Oil and gas production (mmboe) 448.79 451.46 458.92
Crude oil production (mmbbls) 293.66 288.51 284.22
Natural gas production (bcf) 912.50 977.32 1,047.78
Refinery throughput (million tonnes) 238.50 244.01 248.52
Ethylene output (thousand tonnes) 11,610 11,512 12,493
Total sales volume of refined oil products (million tonnes) 
1 231.21 237.69 254.95
Total sales volume of chemical products (million tonnes)78.50 86.60 89.50
Note: 1. In 2019, total sales volume of refined oil products changed was changed to include worldwide sales of the Company .Philanthropy
76 77
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentEnvironmental Performance
Energy 
Water 
Emissions, effluents and wastesIndicators 2017 2018 2019
Consumption of comprehensive energy per RMB10,000 of 
production value (tonne of standard coal)0.496 0.496 0.494
Crude oil consumption (million tonnes) 1.41 1.33 1.21
Natural gas consumption (billion cubic metres) 3.35 3.83 4.14
Consumption of purchased electricity (billion kWh) 28.86 30.57 32.26
Coal consumption (million tonnes) 15.08 15.18 14.77
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Fresh water for industrial use (million cubic metres) 1664.56 657.46 650.36
Oil & gas exploration and production segment - 115.2 112.5
      Water intensity (cubic metre / barrel) 2- 1.99 1.88
Refining segment - 192.4 181.3
      Water intensity (cubic metre / tonne) 3- 0.79 0.73
Chemical segment - 304.2 317.3
      Water intensity (cubic metre / tonne) 4- 3.51 3.55
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Sulphur dioxide (1,000 tonnes) - 67.2 64.6
Nitrogen oxides (1,000 tonnes) - 99.8 95.9
COD (1,000 tonnes) - 19.4 19.0
Ammonia and nitrogen (1,000 tonnes) - 2.0 1.96
Non-hazardous waste (1,000 tonnes)5- 2,229.0 2,115.32
Hazardous waste (1,000 tonnes)6- 505.3 642.3
Reduction of solid waste year-on-year (%) - - 5.1
Increase of the comprehensive utilisation rate of solid waste year-on-year (%)- - 5.7GHGs emissions and management
Note: 
1. Fresh water withdrawal for industrial use refers to the amount of water utilised for the first time in the process of industrial production of the Company .
2. Water intensity in oil and gas exploration segment = Fresh water consumption/domestic oil and gas equivalent production.3. Water intensity in oil refining segment = Fresh water consumption/ refinery throughput.4. Water intensity in chemicals segment = Fresh water consumption/ chemical sales volume.5. Refers to the total amount of non-hazardous waste that disposed by qualified third-parties.6. Refers to the total amount of hazardous waste that disposed by qualified third-parties.7. The Company conducts GHGs emission (direct and indirect) accounting and verification according to ISO14064-1:2006 standards, covering six 
gases including carbon dioxide (CO
2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydro fluoro carbons (HFCs), perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) and sulphur 
hexafluoride (SF6).
8. GHGs emissions intensity= Greenhouse gas emission / revenue (in RMB million)
Others: According to the requirements of Environmental Social and Governance Reporting Guide of HKEx, listed companies should disclose the data of 
water consumption intensity and total packaging material used for finished products. Regarding water consumption intensity , since Sinopec Corp. has 
a wide range of businesses in upstream and downstream industry chains, including oil & gas exploration, development, refining, chemicals, marketing and international trade, etc., we cannot calculate water consumption density . Regarding the total packaging material used for finished products, since 
Sinopec Corp. has dozens of subsidiaries and covers a wide range of businesses, which use various packaging materials such as iron, steel, wood, plastics and woven bags, and various packaging types such as barrels, boxes and bags in various sizes; some of the packages can be recycled; we cannot calculate total packaging material used for finished products.Indicators 2017 2018 2019
GHGs emission (million tonnes CO2-equivalent) 7162.66 171.52 170.69
      Direct 123.05 128.57 125.68
      Indirect 39.61 42.95 45.01
      Oil & gas exploration and production segment 30.55 31.26 23.18
      Refining and chemicals segment 129.49 137.65 144.93
      Marketing segment 2.62 2.61 2.58
GHGs emission intensity (tonnes CO2-equivalent / RMB1 million)868.92 59.32 57.55
CO2 capture (thousand tonnes) 270 1,010 1,263
Methane recovery (million cubic metres) 220 226 397
78 79
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentSocial Performanc
Employment
Workplace health and safetyIndicators 2017 2018 2019
Total number of employees 446,130 423,543 402,206
Employee turnover rate (%) 0.50 0.8 0.8
Percentage of female employees (%) 35.9 35 33.8
Percentage of female employees in management (%) 12.76 12.67 12.38
Collective contract coverage (%) 100 100 100
Social insurance coverage (%) 100 100 100
Enterprise annuity coverage (%) 73.90 79.19 80.57
Percentage of ethnic minority employees(%) 3.8 3.8 3.7
Percentage of employees with labour union membership (%) 100 100 100
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Employee occupational health examination coverage (%) 99 99 99
Health examination and health record coverage (%) 99 99 99
Number of newly diagnosed cases of occupational diseases 21 15 15
Safety training coverage (%) 100 100 100
Number of accidents reported 4 2 1
Work-related deaths 3 3 1Employee training
Public welfare contributions
Social contributionIndicators 2017 2018 2019
Investment in vocational training (RMB million) 739.56 748.08 850.21
Vocational training coverage (%) 72.4 75 78.2
Vocational training participation (person-time) 965,930 936,143 985,612
Online training participation (person-time) — — 5,014,143
Total amount of online training(10,000 hours) — — 1,019.03
Average training hours of male employees — — 49.48
Average training hours of female employees — — 49.83
Average training hours of senior management staff — — 40.57
Average training hours of mid-level management staff — — 41.62
Average training hours of grassroots employees — — 50.26
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Number of patients cured under the Lifeline Express Programme 3,126 3,456 2,376
Indicators 2017 2018 2019
Social contribution per share (RMB/share) 3.778 3.966 3.822
Social contributions (RMB billion) 457.4 480.2 462.8
80 81
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentReport Content Indexes
The Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide of 
Hong Kong Stock Exchange Index
Aspect KPI Page
A.Environmental
A1 EmissionsGeneral disclosure - Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 
that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to air and greenhouse gas emissions, discharges into 
water and land, and generation of hazardous and nonhazardous waste.P33, P44
A1.1 The types of emissions and respective emissions data. P78
A1.2 Greenhouse gas emissions in total (in tons) and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility).P79
A1.3 Total hazardous waste produced (in tons) and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility).P78
A1.4 Total non-hazardous waste produced (in tons) and, where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of produc-tion volume, per facility).P78
A1.5 Description of measures to mitigate emissions and results achieved.P18—P19, P33—P41, 
P46
A1.6 Description of how hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are handled, reduction initiatives and results achieved.p46—p47
A2 Use of ResourcesGeneral disclosure - Policies on the efficient use of resources, including energy, water and other raw materi-
als.P37
A2.1 Direct and/or indirect energy consumption by type (e.g. electricity, gas or oil) in total (kWh in '000s) and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility).P77
A2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). P78
A2.3 Description of energy use efficiency initiatives and results achieved.P16—P17, 
P38—P41
A2.4 Description of whether there is any issue in sourcing water that is fit for purpose, water efficiency initia -
tives and results achieved.P48, P49
A2.5 Total packaging material used for finished products (in tons) and, if applicable, with reference to per unit produced.P24, P25, P79
A3 Environment and Natural ResourcesGeneral disclosure - Policies on minimizing the issuer's significant impact on the environment and natural resources.P44—P45
A3.1 Description of the significant impacts of activities on the environment and natural resources and the actions taken to manage them.P46—P51
B.Social
B1 EmploymentGeneral disclosure - Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 
that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to compensation and dismissal, recruitment and pro-motion, working hours, rest periods, equal opportunity, diversity, antidiscrimination, and other benefits and welfare.P62, P64
B1.1 Total workforce by gender, employment type, age group and geographical region. P80
B1.2 Employee turnover rate by gender, age group and geographical region. P80Aspect KPI Page
B2 Health and SafetyGeneral disclosure - Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations 
that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to providing a safe working environment and protecting employees from occupational hazards.P65
B2.1 Number and rate of work-related fatalities. P80
B2.2 Lost days due to work injury. P80
B2.3 Description of occupational health and safety measures adopted, how they are implemented and moni-tored.P54—P57, 
P65
B3 Development and TrainingGeneral disclosure - Policies on improving employees’ knowledge and skills for discharging duties at work. Description of training activities.P66, P67
B3.1 The percentage of employees trained by gender and employee category (e.g. senior management, mid-dle management).P81
B3.2 The average training hours completed per employee by gender and employee category. P81
B4 Labour StandardsGeneral disclosure - Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to preventing child or forced labour .P62
B4.1 Description of measures to review employment practices to avoid child and forced labor. P62
B4.2 Description of steps taken to eliminate such practices when discovered. P62
B5 Supply Chain ManagementGeneral disclosure - Policies on managing environmental and social risks of the supply chain. P70
B5.1 Number of suppliers by geographical region. —
B5.2 Description of practices relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers where the practices are be-ing implemented, how they are implemented and monitored.P70
B6 Product Respon -
sibilityGeneral disclosure - Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to health and safety, advertising, labelling and privacy matters relating to products and services provided and methods of redress.P71—P73
B6.1 Percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to recalls for safety and health reasons. P72
B6.2 Number of products and service related complaints received and how they are dealt with. P72
B6.3 Description of practices relating to observing and protecting intellectual property rights. P72
B6.4 Description of quality assurance process and recall procedures. P71
B6.5 Description of consumer data protection and privacy policies, how they are implemented and monitored. P73
B7 Anti-corruptionGeneral disclosure - Information on: (a) the policies; and (b) compliance with relevant laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the issuer relating to bribery, extortion, fraud and money laundering.P61
B7.1 Number of concluded legal cases regarding corrupt practices brought against the issuer or its employ-ees during the reporting period and the outcomes of the cases.P61
B7.2 Description of preventive measures and whistle-blowing procedures, how they are implemented and monitored.P61
B8 Community in-vestmentGeneral disclosure - Policies on community engagement to understand the needs of the communities where the issuer operates and to ensure its activities take into consideration the communities’ interests.P74, P75
B8.1 Focus areas of contribution (e.g. education, environmental concerns, labor needs, health, culture, sport).P74—P76
B8.2 Resources contributed (e.g. money or time) to the focus area.  P81
82 83
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentUNGC 10 Principles Index
UNGC Advanced Level Criteria IndexScope UNGC's 10 Principles Page
Human RightsBusinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally pro-
claimed human rights; andP5, P62—67
make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P62—64
LabourBusinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recog-nition of the right to collective bargaining;P64, P67
the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labour; P64
the effective abolition of child Labour; and P62
the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P64
EnvironmentBusinesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental chal-lengesP32, P44
undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and P33—40, P45—51
encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technolo -
gies.P21, P35, 
P39—40, P46—49
Anti-CorruptionBusinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.P61
Scope Criteria for UNGC Advanced Level Page
Strategy Governance and EngagementCriterion 1: Key aspects of the Company's advanced level sustainability strate-gy in line with Global Compact principles P2—3, P5
Criterion 2: Effective decision-making processes and systems of governance for corporate sustainability P12—14, P32, P44, P54, 
P60—61, P64, P70
Criterion 3: Engagement with all important stakeholders P70, P74
UN Goals and Issues Criterion 4: Actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issue P11UNGC Advanced Level Criteria Index
Scope Criteria for UNGC Advanced Level Page
Human Rights Implementa-tionCriterion 5: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rightsP5, P62, P64
Criterion 6: Effective management systems to integrate the human rights prin-cipleP13, P64
Criterion 7: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integrationP12—13, P64
Criterion 8: Key outcomes of the human rights integrationP6, P64—67, 
P80—81
Labour Principles Imple-mentationCriterion 9: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of Labour P5, P62, P64
Criterion 10: Effective management systems to integrate the Labour principle P13, P64
Criterion 11: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of the Labour principle integrationP13, P64
Criterion 12: Key outcomes of the Labour principle integrationP6, P64—67, 
P80—81
Environmental StewardshipImplementationCriterion 13: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environ-mental stewardshipP5, P14, 
P16—19, P33, P42
Criterion 14: Effective management systems to integrate the environmental principleP12—14, P32, P44
Criterion 15: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmen -
tal stewardshipP13, P15, 
P33, P44—45
Criterion 16: Key outcomes of the environmental principle integration P16—19, P34, P48
Anti-CorruptionImplementationCriterion 17: Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti-cor-ruptionP5, P61
Criterion 18: Effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principleP13, P61
Criterion 19: Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integra-tion of anti-corruptionP61
Criterion 20: Key outcomes of the anti-corruption principle integration P06, P61
Value Chain ImplementationCriterion 21: Implementation of the Global Compact principles in the value chainP70
Transparency and Verifica-tionCriterion 22: The COP provides information on the Company's profile and con-text of operationReport Information
Criterion 23: The COP incorporates high standards of transparency and disclo -
sureP60
Criterion 24: The COP is independently verified by a credible third-party —
84 85
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentGRI Standards Index
No.Pages in report / 
reason for omission
Organisation profile
102-1 Report Information
102-2 P04
102-3 P04
102-4 P04
102-5 —
102-6 P04
102-7 P04
102-8 P64, P80
102-9 P70
102-10 P70
102-11 P80
102-12 P85
102-13 P19, P74, P85
Strategy
102-14 P02—03
102-15 P02—03, P32, P44
Ethics and integrity
102-16 P05
102-17 P12—13
Governance
102-18 P12
102-19 P12
102-20 P12
102- 21 P09—10
102-22 P12
102-23 P12
102-24 P12
102-25 P12No.Pages in report / 
reason for omission
Governance
102-26 P12
102-27 P12
102-28 P12
102-29 P09
102-30 P12—13
102-31 P09
102-32 P12
102-33 P12—13
102-34 P12—13
102-35 P13, P64
102-36 —
102-37 P12—13
102-38 —
102-39 —
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 P10
102-41 P09—10
102-42 P09—10
102-43 P09—10
102-44 P09—10
Reporting practice
102-45 Report Information，P06—07
102-46 Report Information
102-47 P09
102-48 Report Information
102-49 P09
102-50 Report Information
102-51 Report InformationNo.Pages in report / 
reason for omission
Reporting practice
102-52 Report Information
102-53 P90
102-54 Report Information
102-55 P86—88
GRI 201: Economic performance
201-1 P06, P77
201-2 P32
201-3 P64—67
201-4 —
GRI 202: Market presence
202-1 P64
202-2 P75
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts
203-1 P26—27, P75—76
203-2 P26—27, P75—76
GRI 204: Procurement practices
204-1 P75
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
205-1 P61
205-2 P61
205-3 P61
GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour
206-1 —
GRI 301: Materials
301-1 P48
301-2 P39—41
301-3 P35, P47No.Pages in report / 
reason for omission
GRI 302: Energy
302-1 P78
302-2 —
302-3 P78
302-4 P34
302-5 P34, P39—41
GRI 303: Water
303-1 P48—49
303-2 P48—49
303-3 P48—49
GRI 305: Emissions
305-1 P79
305-2 P79
305-3 P79
305-4 P36
305-5 P35—36
305-6 —
305-7 P78
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
306-1 —
306-2 P47, P78
306-3 —
306-4 P47
306-5 —
GRI 307: Environmental compliance
307-1 —
 GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment
308-1 P70
308-2 P70
86 87
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentNo.Pages in report / 
reason for omission
GRI 401: Employment
401-1 P80
401-2 P64—67
401-3 P64
GRI 402: Labour/management relations
402-1 —
GRI 403 : Occupational health and safety
403-1 —
403-2 P80
403-3 P65
403-4 P54—55, P65
GRI 404: Training and education
404-1 P81
404-2 P66—67
404-3 —
GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity
405-1 P64, P80
405-2 —
GRI 406: Non-discrimination
406-1 P62—64
GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining
407-1 —
GRI 408: Child labour
408-1 P62—64
GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labour
409-1 P62—64
GRI 410: Security practices
410-1 P55
GRI 411: Rights of indigenous peoples
411-1 —No.Pages in report / 
reason for omission
GRI 412: Human rights assessment
412-1 —
412-2 —
412-3 —
GRI 413: Local communities
413-1 P75
413-2 —
GRI 414: Supplier social assessment
414-1 P70
414-2 P70
GRI 415: Public policy
415-1 —
GRI 416: Customer health and safety
416-1 P56—57
416-2 —
GRI 417: Marketing and labelling
417-1 P71
417-2 —
417-3 —
GRI 418: Customer privacy
418-1 —
GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance
419-1 —TCFD Index
TCFD recommended disclosures Pages
Governance
Disclose the organisation’s governance around climate-related issues and opportunities.
a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. P12，P13
b) Describe the management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. P12，P13
Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s busi-ness, strategy and financial planning where such information is material.
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium, 
and long termP32
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.P32—41
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related sce-narios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.—
Risk Management:Disclose how the organisation identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks.
a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. P12
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks. P12
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 
organisation’s overall risk management.P12
Metrics and TargetsDisclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks and opportunities
in line with its strategy and risk management processP32—41
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks. P33—36
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and perfor-mance against targetsP16—19P32—41
88 89
China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation 2019 Communication on Progress for Sustainable DevelopmentFeedback
Dear Readers,
Thank you for reading this report. Your opinions and suggestions are important to us and can help us improve the preparation of future reports. Please 
help us by completing the following Feedback Form and sending it to the following address:
Mailing address: Secretariat of the Board : China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation
                           No.22 Chaoyangmen North Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100728, PRC
Your Information
Name  :  
                                                 
Organisation :                                                       Title :                                 
Contact Tel :                                                          Fax :                                                 E-mail :                    
Opening questions
1. What do you like the most of this report?
2. What other information do you think that should be included in this report?3. What are your suggestions that how we can better prepare our sustainable development progress report in the future?Content             Very good       Good            Fair          Poor       Very poor 
1. This report provides a complete and accurate description of the significant 
economic, social and environmental impacts of Sinopec Corp.
2.This report responds to and discloses information about the concerns of stake -
holders.
3.The information, indicators and data disclosed in this report are clear, accurate 
and complete.
4. This report is easy to read, i.e. its structure, content, wording and layout are 
well designed.
90
China Petroleum & Chemical CorporationCommunication on Progress
for Sustainable Development2018 Sinopec Corp.
New Era 丨 New Opportunities  丨 New Growth Drivers
http://www.sinopec.com/listco/en