1
Editorial Policy
Reporting Period
How to Read the Report
Assurance
FeedbackWelcome to Chunghwa Telecom's 13th Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report. This report is 
published in both Chinese and English on a dedicated CSR website. We hope to integrate the advantages of both paper-based and Internet-based reports to let our stakeholders gain a better understanding of our CSR-related efforts and performances in 2019.
This report discloses the Company's CSR management policies, material issues, countermeasures, 
initiatives and results between January 1 and December 31, 2019. However, to ensure complete coverage, parts of the report include descriptions of initiatives and results from 2018 to 2020.
Content and data of this report have been reviewed and assured by SGS Taiwan Ltd. based on the “Core” option of 
GRI Standards for compliance with the Core elements of GRI Standards and AA1000 AS (2008) Type 2 High Assurance Standards and requirements of the Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework.
If you have any feedback to share, please do not hesitate to contact us through: 
CSR Division, Public Affairs Department, Chunghwa Telecom, References
Issuing Organization Item
The Global Reporting Initiative, GRIGRI Standards: Core option
G3.1 Telecommunications Sector Supplement
The International Integrated Reporting Council, IIRC International <IR> Framework
Chih-Ming Tseng
Address
Telephone
Fax
Email: 21-3, Sec. 1, Hsinyi Road, Taipei, Taiwan 100: +886-2-23444000: +886-2-23568306: chtcsr@cht.com.tw Topics of GRI Standards
Chunghwa Telecom's Indicator
CHT
Unless otherwise specified, all currency units used 
in this report's financial data are by default New Taiwan Dollars (NT$).Strategy
Develop 
strategies and 
commitmentsAction
Important 
projects and 
actionsManagement
Management 
mindsets and 
mechanismsResponse
Stakeholder 
requests and 
responsesTarget
Future outlook, 
targets and plansIndicator
The GRI and 
Chunghwa 
Telecom's own 
Indicatorshttps://www.cht.com.tw/en/home/cht/sustainability/csr-report-download
GRIS A M R T I
GRI2 3
CONTENT
EDITORIAL POLICY
MESSAGE FROM  
THE CHAIRMAN
2019 CSR MILESTONES01
04
06
Sustainability 
Value Strategy 22
Six Main Capitals Create 
Sustainability Value
Five Major Forces Drive the 
Sustainable Cycle
Creating Sustainable Value24
24
26
2019 Material Topics 
and Impact  
Stakeholders 
Engagement30
34Material Topics 
and Impact 28
CorporateOverview
08
Corporate Governance
CSR Management14
1912
3Chapter
ChapterChapter
Emerging 
Opportunities
Emerging Risks
Climate Change Risks 
and Opportunities
Cybersecurity Risks42
42
44
50Sustainability 
Risks and Opportunities
38
Public Policy Participation
126
Strategies and Goals  
for Material Topics
Assurance StatementGRI Standard Index129 
130
132The Digital Economy 
Motivator
The Creative Industry Pilot
The Happiness Value 
Protector
The Green Corporation 
Pioneer
The Social Value Guide56
 
58
66
 
92 
108The Creation of 
Sustainable Value 52 45
6Chapter
ChapterChapter5
Message from the Chairman
Inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), 
8 years in a row
“2019 Asia-Pacific Emerging Market Telecom Service 
Provider of the Year,” “2019 Taiwan Mobile Service 
Provider of the Year,” and “2019 Taiwan Data Center 
Service Provider of the Year” presented by Frost & Sullivan
Top 5% in the assessment of corporate governanceInclusion in the Taiwan Sustainability Index (TWSI)Inclusion in the FTSE4Good Emerging Index“Exemplar Award ” of the Global Views Monthly 
Corporate Social Responsibility Awards6 Awards, including the CSR Report Top 50 Platinum 
Award, of the Taiwan Corporate Sustainability Awards
“Best Smart Customer Service System Application”  
and “Best Enterprise in Service Innovation” from the 
2019 Customer Service Excellence Awards (CSEA) of 
TCCDA
“Top Prize in the Telecom Category” of the 2019 
Five-Star Service Awards presented by Global Views Monthly
Green energy generation ranked No. 1 in Taiwan with 
the total capacity up to 600.745 kWp
Annual CSR Supplier Conference, organized 9 consec -
utive years, with 1,200 suppliers as participants
Participation in the CDP Supply Chain Program, 2 
years in a row, prompting 100 suppliers engaging 
carbon management, achieving a 4.12-million-ton of 
CO
2e reduction through the supply chain
Promotion of “Click Taiwan” Program for over 10 
years, facilitating students from 100 departments and institutes in 60 universities and colleges to go into the communities of Taiwan with over 330 video records produced
Engagement of “Read with You” Community Network 
Tutoring over 11 years with an accumulated number 
of 4,460 tutoring from college students to 2,875 younger students after school
“EYE Social Innovative Call Center” established nearly 
a decade, facilitating visually-impaired individuals in education and employment- 
- 
   
-
-
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
-
- 
- 
- 
 
 
- 
 
  
- 
 
 
-Brilliant performances 
and recognitions of Chunghwa Telecom in 2019:
Other significant achievements 
on sustainability include:
-
Chairman & CEO
Chunghwa Telecom Co., LtdWelcome to the 13th Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Report released by Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. Deeply rooted in the corporate social responsibility, Chunghwa Telecom utilizes its advantages in the ICT industry and in 
technology, endeavoring to facilitate relevant industry 
ecosystems in Taiwan to fulfil their sustainable development goals while creating more positive social impacts. In 2019, Chunghwa Telecom confronted the fierce competition in the telecommunication market, proactively took on challenges, 
and successfully secured its place as a leader in the markets 
of mobile communication, broadband network, and the MOD platform. Early in 2020, Chunghwa Telecom also successfully acquired the best frequency bands of the 5G spectrum as the 
first step to establishing steadily its competitive advantages 
in the long-term development in the future.
In light of the significant economic crisis brought by the 
climate change, Chunghwa Telecom continues to push for 
the “Low-carbon Economy & Sustainable Supply Chain” Initiative. In line with ISO 20400 Sustainable Procurement Guidance it implements a green procurement, partakes in the CDP Supply Chain Program, pushes for carbon 
management in over 100 suppliers, and proactively promotes 
a classification management system of sustainability as well as implements the ideal of a green enterprise. In 2019, ahead of other players in the industry of Taiwan, it completed the introduction and verification of international environmental standards, ISO 14046 (water footprint) and 
ISO 14067(carbon footprint), for the Internet Data Center 
(IDC) at Banqiao and Syntrend Service Center, which thus made it the first telecom carrier in Taiwan that obtained both of these international environmental standards. Meanwhile, 
Syntrend Service Center also obtained the certification 
of PAS 2060 of SGS-Taiwan. Apart from actively adopting measures that save energy and reduce carbon emissions, the Service Center also purchases carbon rights from Zhangbin Solar Power Plant to neutralize carbon emissions in its daily 
operation. As such, it becomes the very first carbon-neutral 
telecom store in Taiwan, creating substantial contributions to the environment and sustainable development in Taiwan with an innovative thinking and practical actions.
In terms of social inclusion, Chunghwa Telecom, as an 
international-level sustainable enterprise, proposed proactively the initiative of 5I SDGs that specifically bridges 
with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United 
Nations. Upholding its 5 strategies of sustainability, i.e.  
The Digital Economy Motivator, The Creative Industry Pilot,  

The Happiness Value Protector, The Green Corporation 
Pioneer, and "The Social Value Guide, it has been living up to its philosophies of sustainable development for 
corporate management, conformity with the global 
trend of eco-friendliness, 
and substantial assistance to 
the underprivileged communities as well as fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities. Through 360-degree actions 
of digital inclusion, Chunghwa Telecom puts its core abilities 
in the ICT industry into good use, encouraging its employees as volunteers throughout Taiwan to go into communities to provide services in an attempt to achieve the goal of  
Sustainable Digital Inclusion of 5I SDGs. Setting sails from Taiwan, the solid contributions of Chunghwa Telecom in bridging the Sustainable Development Goals shall be seen worldwide.
In face of the pandemic of COVID-19 in the early 2020, to en-
sure its operation and the health of its employees, Chungh-wa Telecom promptly enacted the contingency plan for COVID-19. Also, it proactively channeled its technological 
4With a ceaseless innovation at the core of the 
brand, Chunghwa Telecom shall employ a customer-oriented, duo-axis strategy for “5G+ Transformation, ushering the corporation into the Age of 5G. On the basis of Core Businesses Consolidation, Emerging Businesses  Exploration, Cost Optimization, ” and Basic Capability Elevation, ” Chunghwa Telecom shall continue to better itself, construct 4G/5G mobile broadband networks with maximum bandwidth and the widest coverage, as well as drive the digital economy development and smart living applications in variety, so as to fulfill the needs in the age of diverse consumption, establish the mid- and long-term development foundations for the enterprise, and ultimately stand as the most valuable and most trustworthy ICT company.
Chunghwa Telecom can do more. Aiming to 
form a virtuous cycle via technology, we are committed to listening and responding to social needs. Following the developments of Internet of Things and innovative digital services, Chunghwa Telecom is to position itself as the Leader in Smart Living and the Agent of Digital Economy Empowerment. Hence, it shall ceaselessly utilize its core technological advantages in the ICT industry, dedicate itself to the development of industries in Taiwan as well as to facilitating the sharing of resources in knowledge and technology, and create more positive social momentums. With that, we look forward to your continuous support and encouragement to Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. in the days to come.energy to facilitating the government in and 
ensuring the communications among disease control agencies and medical units. Further -
more, 
it offered various products-and-services   
packages as a mean to assist businesses and 
schools to maintain daily  operation and avoid 
clustering via telepresence. Meanwhile,  
mobile value-added services were available, 
free of charge, to keep people company 
during their home isolation and for a more harmonious society.
• “2019 Asia-Pacific Emerging Market Telecom Service Provider of the Year, ” “2019 
Taiwan Mobile Service Provider of the Year, ” and “2019 Taiwan Data Center Service 
Provider of the Year ” presented by Frost & Sullivan
• 2019 Enterprise Project Management Benchmarking Award presented by PMI-Taiwan
• Won the first place of the Global Views' Five-Star Service Award of the 
telecom industry division in 2019
• S&P Ratings: rated “AA” In foreign long-term rating
• Taiwan Ratings: rated “twAAA / twA-1+ ” in domestic long-term/short-term 
rating
• Awarded “Second Prize ”and “Special Prize ” of “Buying Power- Social 
Innovative Product and Service Procurement Awarding System ” from 
MoEA 
• Selected for Taiwan Sustainability Index (TWSI) and FTSE4Good Emerging 
Index• “Best Smart Customer Service System Application ” and “Best Enterprise in Service Innovation ” from the 
2019 Customer Service Excellence Awards (CSEA) of TCCDA 
• Received 4 prizes for the Taiwan Corporate Sustainability Awards, including the “Top 50 Corporate 
Sustainability Report Platinum Award ” “Social Inclusion Award, ” “Climate Leadership Award, ” and the  
“Growth through Innovation Award ” 
• Awarded the first place in the “Telecom 4G Industry ” of NEXMAG's “ Top Service Awards 2019 ” 2019 CSR Milestones 
• Inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI)
• Best Omni-channel Customer Service Enterprise Excellence Award from the 2019   
GCCA Conference
• “Sponsorship Award Gold Class ” and “Promotion Award Gold Class ” of the 11th 
Sports Activist Awards of Sports Administration, Ministry of Education•  “Exemplar Award ” of the Global Views Monthly Corporate Social  
  Responsibility Awards 
•   Awarded Top 6-20% of the Corporate Governance Evaluation   
 from the Taiwan Stock Exchange Corporation
• Awarded with “ Excellence in Corporate 
Social Responsibility Award ” from 
CommonWealth Magazine
• Awarded with First prize in “ Corporate 
Health Responsibility Award ” from 
Common Health MagazineWon the Platinum Awards of Trusted   
  Brand from Reader's Digest
Included in the Taiwan High   
 Compensation 100 Index of Taiwan   
 Index PlusAwarded No.1 Fastest Mobile Network in “Taiwan's Speedtest Awards for 
mobile network speed ” by Speedtest in the second half of 2018 Jan
Winners of both “ Download Speed: 4G ” and “ Download Speed: Overall ” 
in Taiwan from the OpenSignal Report  MarOct
Nov
DecApr
May
Jun
Aug
Sep
2019
January
Awarded No.1 Fastest Mobile Network in 
“Taiwan’s Speedtest Awards for 
mobile network speed” by Speedtest 
in the second half of 2018March
Winners of both “Download Speed: 4G” 
and “Download Speed: Overall” 
in Taiwan from the 
OpenSignal Report April
“Exemplar Award” 
of the Global Views 
Monthly Corporate 
Social Responsibility AwardsOctober
Received 4 prizes for the Taiwan Corporate 
Sustainability Awards, including the “Top 50 
Corporate Sustainability Report Platinum Award” 
“Social Inclusion Award,” “Climate Leadership 
Award,” and the “Growth through Innovation Award”November
2019 Asia-Pacific Emerging Market Telecom 
Service Provider of the Year,” “2019 Taiwan 
Mobile Service Provider of the Year,” and “2019 
Taiwan Data Center Service Provider of the Year” 
presented by Frost & SullivanSeptember
“Sponsorship Award Gold Class” 
and “Promotion Award Gold Class” 
of the 11th Sports Activist Awards of Sports 
Administration, Ministry of Education
7
6906 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities
Chunghwa Telecom (TAIEX:2412, NYSE: CHT) is the largest integrated telecom carrier 
in Taiwan. The head office is located at 21-3, Section 1, Hsinyi Road, Taipei with more than 714 locations in 22 counties and cities in Taiwan. Our major business areas include fixed and mobile communications, broadband access and the Internet. We also provide corporate customers with information and communication services, including big data, information security, and cloud and Internet information centers. We also offer innovative technology services, such as the IoT (Internet of Things) and AI (Artificial Intelligence), to create an outstanding communication environment and extraordinarily convenient digital life. We also have important business partnerships with other international telecom carriers. 
Chunghwa Telecom has been actively involved in “Corporate Social Responsibility”  
since 2006, and has won praise from many domestic and international professional 
organizations. The establishment of the “Corporate Social Responsibility Best 
Practice Principles” and legalization of the governance structure has prompted us to a stringent and ambitious practice of CSR. 
The main business of the branches and re-investments: 
Please refer to page 17,109-111 in the 2019 Annual Report.1Chapter
Corporate Overview
Corporate Governance 
CSR Management14
19)))))))))))
)))))))))))
CHT CSR2019
For 2019, Chunghwa Telecom's consolidated net 
income was NT$ 207,520,061 thousand and its annual 
earnings per share was NT$ 4.23.
Chunghwa Telecom is the only telecom company to 
have established a labor director . 
To link sustainability performance with compensation , 
Chunghwa Telecom implemented a soft incorporation 
of sustainable development strategies and targets 
into its review of director compensation. 
Chunghwa Telecom established a CSR committee 
and six task forces responsible for the setting of 
sustainability policies. 
Annual review of the Company's budget planning for 
carbon management strategies; execution of action 
plans; setting performance targets. 
Sustainability issues addressed by Chunghwa 
Telecom: social integration, digital inclusion, green 
ICT products & services, green brand management , 
and energy-saving & carbon reduction.
The SDGs contributes to in this chapter ：  8 , 12 Three Telecom Laws
803 Material Topics 
 and Impact0 1 Coporate
 Overview02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
10 11
Mobile phone
Customer amount
Annual growth
Customer amount
Broadband customers Customer amountAnnual growth10.649 million
+0.5 %1.582 million
+11.3 %100 Mbps
3.619 million
82.2 %Customer amountMarket share3.624 million
No.1
Business Model
 Products and ServicesHousehold 
marketPersonal marketCorporate market
Share of Revenue by Product
46 %
31.7 %Mobile communication
Domestic fixed networkCustomer amount Market share
10.649 million  36.5%
Customer amount
/ Communication amountMarket 
share
Local 
network10.163
million households 92.5%
Long haul 
Internet1,804.8 
million minutes 82%
Broadband 
access4.405 
million households 68%
MOD 2.082 million households  29.5% 2.3 %Others14.5 %Internet
Customer amount Market share
4 million households  64.4%
5.5 %International fixed 
network
Communication amount Market share
485 million minutes 69.6%
Allow investors to en-
joy the business profit 
from a satisfied 
customer base.Enhance the 
operational 
efficiency of 
corporations.Create a gateway 
to an enjoyable 
digital life for
 people.Facilitate industry 
scale to expand 
in a good way with 
our contribution.We Strive toBoard of Directors
Chairman & CEO
PresidentShareholders' Meeting 
Audit
Committee
AuditCompensation 
CommitteeStrategy 
Committee
CFO
&
SEVP
Accounting
- 
Finance SEVP
Investment
- 
Public
AffairsHuman
Resource
-
Legal
Affairs
-
Administration
& Assets
-
Supply
-
Occupational
Safety &
HealthCISO
&
SEVP
Marketing
-
Information 
Technology
-
Customer 
Service
-
Cyber Security
-
Big DataSEVP
Corporate 
Planning
-
Network
-
Digital 
Convergence 
Business
-
Research 
& Planning 
CommitteePresident 
of Business 
Group
Data  
Communi-  
cations  
Business  
GroupPresident 
of Business 
Group
Enterprise 
Business GroupPresident of 
TL
Telecom-
munication
LaboratoriesPresident 
of Business 
Group
Northern 
Taiwan 
Business 
Group
BranchesPresident 
of Business 
Group
Southern 
Taiwan 
Business 
Group
BranchesPresident 
of Business 
Group
Mobile 
Business 
Group
Taipei, 
Taichung, 
Kaohsiung 
BranchesPresident of 
TTI
Telecom-
munication
Training 
Institute
Taichung,
Kaohsiung 
BranchPresident 
of Business 
Group
International 
Business Group
Overseas 
Representative
OfficesSecretariat of BoD
SEVP• Domestic fixed 
network service 
• Domestic leased line 
service 
• Internet and value-
added service
• MOD (IPTV) service 
• International fixed 
network service• Mobile communication 
service 
• Wi-Fi service 
• International fixed 
network service • Integrated service 
• Data security service 
• Mobile service 
• Data service 
• International service 
• Diversified integrated payment service06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
12 13
Industry Value Chain and Critical Sustainability Performance
Due to technological advancements, boundaries of specialized markets that we used to know of are starting to shift, 
thus allowing industry participants to compete outside of their dominant markets. International Data Corporation has even combined ICT, e-Commerce, Electronics and Entertainment into a new segment called eICT to recognize the 
increasingly common cross-industry collaboration. 
The wave of digital convergence brings new values to the telecom industry and opportunities to meet users' needs 
by offering innovative eICT services, which makes content providers and integrators, application service providers, 
network equipment suppliers and terminal equipment suppliers the important value partners to a telecom carrier in 
the development of digital convergence services.
EnvironmentLocal procurement 
percentage 95 %First telecom carrier that has been certified with 
environmental standards “ISO 14046 Water 
footprint and ISO 14067 Carbon footprint”Contract capacity of 
photovoltaic 
system 600.745 kWpSole company in the 
industry to have signed 
TCFD initiativeEconomySole company in the industry to establish 
a labor directorConsolidated revenue NT$ 207.5 billionIndependent director percentage 38.5%
Society“5I SDGs ”, first initiative connecting 
to the UN SDGs and DIGI+ in Taiwan5ISocial investment 
NT$ 761 millionCollective Agreement coverage 99%Telecom subsidy for the underprivileged 
NT$ 172,682 thousand
Moving forward, Chunghwa Telecom shall 
continue to better itself in services of fixed network, mobile, data, and eICT while 
strengthening the partnership with its 
suppliers throughout the supply chain to form a closer industrial ecosphere to introduce more quality services.
Content Providers/
Integration Service 
ProvidersApplication Service
Providers 
Network Equipment 
Suppliers
Software/ 
Data Security Service 
Provider 
System 
Integration 
Service Provider Terminal 
Equipment
Suppliers
Channel
MarketersUsers06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
14 15
 14 15
Corporate Governance 14               CSR Management 19 
  Compensation  
  Committee
Consists of three independent 
directors, who are responsible for the evaluation of the performance 
of directors and managers, and 
for determination of appropriate 
 
compensation policies, system standards and structures. Also, the compensations of directors 
and managers are evaluated and 
stipulated on a regular basis. 
Consists of 8 board members, who are responsible for mid and long-term development plans and other critical 
issues, as well as major investment 
and mergers and acquisitions, major reorganization of the Company,  applications for or returns of business 
licenses, annual operating plans and 
budget compilations and revisions, capital increases or decreases,  and other strategic decisions. The 
resolutions are submitted to the BoD 
for final approval. Audit Committee 
Consists of all the independent directors, whose main duties are to select or dismiss the 
CPA, determine the CPA com
-
pensation, review and discuss 
quarterly, semiannual, and annual financial reports, the 
adoption of or amendments 
to the internal control system and the assessment of the ef
-
fectiveness of the internal con -
trol system.2
1010Chunghwa Telecom Board of Directors is the highest governing body. The Board of Directors is responsible for appointing and nominating high-level managers, as well as formulating and reviewing corporate social responsibility, and sustainable development strategies. The 9th Board has 13 directors. To date, there are 1 female and 12 male 
directors, including 5 independent directors. Directors' tenure is three years (June 21, 2019 to June 20, 2022). All of 
the independent directors are included in the Audit Committee to ensure the independence of governance and the perspectives of the stakeholders.
To meet the needs of Chunghwa Telecom's business development, the Board of Directors of Chunghwa Telecom shall 
comprise experts and scholars in the industries as well as in the fields of finance and accounting, management, etc.; the members on the Board of Directors shall include one or more talent in the fields of innovation capacity, business experience, legal expertise, and ICT, respectively. In addition, gender equality in the composition of the Board of 
Directors is highlighted. A goal of 20% female seats on the Board of Directors in 5 years has been stipulated.
Chunghwa Telecom's independent directors and outside directors provide expertise based on their respective areas 
of practice and professionalism to assist the Board of Directors in making decisions as to benefit the Company and 
the shareholders. To prevent personal liability and financial losses due to third-party litigation, we have purchased indemnity insurance for Directors.
To ensure an effective operation of sustainable management, apart from the key performance indicators listed for 
the Company, departments, and individuals, we also incorporate items pertaining to the CSR development trends, including innovative development, risk management, code of conducts, information/cybersecurity, climate change, stakeholder engagement/inventory, and social participation, in “Directions Governing Performances of Senior 
Managers of Chunghwa Telecom ”.Corporate Governance 
Chunghwa Telecom values diversity in Board of Directors and recruits talents primarily based on skill sets. Selection of directors is not limited to any particular gender, age, nationality, culture or ethnicity. Directors are expected to have outstanding quality, industry experience and expertise to complement the Board.Board Diversity Policy
Advanced studies of the Board of Directors: Please refer to the 2019 Annual Report on page p.74-76
Experiences of the Directors: Please refer to the 2019 Annual 
Report on page p.20-22
Chunghwa Telecom's Chairman is concurrently the CEO. The elections of directors comply with relevant laws and regulations, which suggest the Board and shareholders with qualified shareholding ratio nominate the candidates, and director's nomination and review are conducted accordingly. In order to avoid conflicts of interest in the highest governance body, we conduct strict controls in accordance with the following procedures, including:
• All the new directors shall sign the Consent to Appointment to announce that they will follow Article 23 of the Company 
Act, conduct faithful business and perform the duty of care as a bona fide manager. 
• All directors have to sign the Statement to show that they clearly knew the content of Article 206 of the Company Act, 
which is about the content of avoidance of voting rights and the legal effect of violations.
Due to the directors' high ethical standards and self-disciple, in the operation of the mechanism, no conflict of interest has occurred since the Board of Directors was established. Moreover, the Board has resolved to approve a total of 50 articles of “Code of Corporate Governance for Chunghwa Telecom,” while all departments are required to implement the Code of Conduct, and the the Secretariat of the BoD also evaluates on a regular basis.Avoidance of Conflict of Interest
To implement corporate governance and elevate the functions of the Board of Directors, performance targets are established to enhance the operation of the Board of Directors. In 2019, at the 2nd meeting of the 9th Board of Directors approved and enacted the Regulations Governing the Performance Evaluation of the Board of Directors of Chunghwa 
Telecom Co., Ltd. that details rigidly the cycle and scope for the performance evaluation of the Board of Directors as well 
as the execution procedures, evaluation indexes, and standards for reference.
The self-evaluation for the Directors on the Board as well as the self-evaluation on the performance of functional 
committees is conducted on an annual basis, while the performance evaluation by external, independent, professional 
institutions or external teams of experts and scholars is liable to be carried out once every 3 years. In 2019, we 
commissioned Taiwan Corporate Governance Association to conduct an external evaluation. Kindly refer to the following link for details of the execution.Performance Evaluation for the Board of Directors
Regulations Governing the Performance Evaluation of the Board of Directors of Chunghwa Telecom
Results of the 2019 Performance Evaluation
30-50 Years Old
Above 51 Years OldCHT Board of Directors
Unit: person
Director compensation: Please refer to page 34-37 of the Company's 2019 Annual Report.All Chunghwa Telecom directors are nominated by the Board of Directors and shareholders holding the legally required percentage of shares, they are then subsequently appointed by the Board of Directors. The Compensation Committee has implemented a soft incorporation of sustainable development strategies and targets into its 
review of director compensation in accordance with the Company's Articles of Incorporation so as to achieve the 
following: (1) evaluation of required core competencies in order to facilitate the connection between director performance and the Company's sustainability outlook and short, medium, and long-term strategies and targets, (2) strengthening accountability and linking performance with compensation, recruitment and retention to attract 
key talent on the Board of Directors. The implementation of this measure coupled with the substantial effect of the 
variable compensation plan is a win-win for the Company and its directors.Linking Director Compensation to Sustainability PerformanceCorporate  Strategy 
Committee    06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
16 17
 16 17
Corporate Governance 14               CSR Management 19 
Creating Value for Shareholders
Encourage Shareholders to Participate in Corporate GovernanceChunghwa Telecom business operations have been stable for years. Profitability and financial completeness have 
been uninterrupted. We pay our taxes honestly year after year, following the law, and make solid contributions to the country. Despite the existence of many challenges in the telecom operation environment, we maintain complete 
focus on our field and create value for the shareholders. Chunghwa Telecom generated consolidated revenues 
totaling NT$ 207.5 billion in 2019.
Owing to the impact by replacement and competition from free messaging apps and VoIP technology, the revenue 
from voice service tumbled; ICT projects were completed as scheduled in line with the quality requirement, which 
benefited the revenues from tender projects. Net income attributable to the parent company amounted to NT$ 32.8 billion while EPS reached NT$ 4.23 in 2019.
In 2019, Chunghwa Telecom income tax was the equivalent of an effective tax rate of 19.13%. The deviation from 
statutory 20% tax rate was mainly attributed to the provisions of Article 42 of Income Tax Act, in that net dividends or net earnings recognized from local invested businesses are exempt from income tax. In addition, the application can 
also be made for tax preference pursuant to Article 10 of the Statute for Industrial Innovation as well.
Chunghwa Telecom has made changes and revisions to several systems and measures based on a corporate 
governance mindset. These include e-voting, voting by poll and the disclosure of meeting resolutions made on the Company official website. These diverse voting channels allow shareholders to exercise their rights easily and this 
has made corporate governance more effective.Highest Moral Standard
We have set up the “Code of Ethics of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. ” “Ethical Corporate Management Best Practice 
Principle, ” and “Procedures for Ethical Management and Guidelines for Conduct. ” These are formulated as basic ethical 
guidelines to ensure that all employees engage in all activities with the highest standard. In addition to these codes being included in the training program for new hires, all employees are required to log into the web, review the material 
and take a test annually. All employees participated in the test in 2019 except for those who were not available for a legitimate reason at the time of the test.
Prevention of Corruption 
Chunghwa Telecom has prepared the “Employee Appraisal Guidelines ” and “Employee Reward/Disciplinary Standards ”  
for the evaluation of performance. Rewards and sanctions are applied according to these rules whenever employees exhibit conduct deserving of them. Information such as a grievance hotline has been made available on the Chunghwa 
Telecom intranet/employee portal. A total of 25 internal complaint cases (disciplinary and leak investigations) were 
accepted in 2019, 23 of which are closed and 2 of which are still under investigation; 18 were associated with violation of the code of conduct. All complaints were investigated and handled according to company internal policies and principles, and taught as case studies to strengthen employee esteem for the rules, discipline, corporate image, and 
shareholders interests.
CHT's Anti-corruption Policy
Transparent Information Disclosure
The corporate governance of Chunghwa Telecom places great emphasis on integrity, accountability, and trustworthiness. 
We are committed to reducing information asymmetry between the management and external stakeholders, and utilize a variety of means such as the corporate website, a Market Observation Post System, Annual Reports, CSR Reports, 
press conferences and investor conferences to facilitate transparent communication with stakeholders. Furthermore, 
measures have been taken to ensure the timeliness, quality, balance, and credibility of the information disclosed. In 2019, the Company was ranked among the top 6-20% in the 5
th Corporate Governance Evaluation by the TWSE. Thanks 
to the joint efforts by all personnel, we achieved the best performance as one of the top 5% in the 6th Corporate 
Governance Evaluation, which is the fifth time we are recognized with such honor.The Internal Audit System
The internal audit helps the Board and managers to check the effectiveness of the internal control systems and operations. It is located under the Board and conducts business audits in accordance with the regulations and policies. The annual audit plan is formulated based on the results of the risk assessment made at the end of every year. After 
the approval of the Board, the plan is sent to the competent authorities via the Internet information system for their 
reference.
Organization and functioning of Chunghwa Telecom's internal audit unit
Supporting Global CSR Initiatives and Guidelines
We willingly comply with the principles of The UN Global Compact and respect and uphold all basic human rights recognized in the world. We refrain from any disregard or neglect of such rights. In terms of employment practice, we protect the right of workers to freedom of association, while recognizing and supporting their rights to also negotiate 
with the employer. We are dedicated to eliminating all forms of illegal labor and discrimination.
Chunghwa Telecom has publicly disclosed its human rights policy and emphasizes the importance of such issues. It has 
a system in place to address violations and will continue with human rights protection as part of corporate policy. The Company openly states a respect for human rights and reviews human rights issues on a yearly basis. The Company 
keeps detailed records of internal findings concerning human rights policy, including child labor, the rights of indigenous 
peoples, and supplier human rights assessment. Current practices are audited regularly and the findings are used for review and correction by relevant departments. Chunghwa Telecom Training Institute organizes human rights-related courses on a yearly basis and whenever there is a change in labor regulations and policies. 11 courses totaling 31 hours 
were held in 2019; 1,681 employees had participated in these courses.Strengthen Business Management
To improve the quality of business marketing and consumers' trust, we have formulated the “Business Marketing 
Standards” to ensure the execution of business aligns with the requirements of the competent authority, while including compliance status into the evaluation of higher management's performance. We were fined NT$2 million by the National 
Communications Commission (NCC) due to the 499 cases in 2018. Upon appeal to administrative litigation, the High 
Administrative Court ruled a reduction of the fine to NT$1.2 million. Chunghwa Telecom received no penalty from the competent authority in 2019.
Chunghwa Telecom Human Rights PolicyShareholder Structure of Chunghwa Telecom
Other Legal 
EntitiesIndividualForeign Institutions and 
IndividualsGovernmentFinancial 
Institutions
40.32% 8.03% 17.18% 17.9% 16.48%
Date of data: 2020/3/31 (the most recent book closure date) Total number of 
employees in the Company including subsidiaries
31,892 persons77,574
207,520
135,953
30,79446,15534,746
8,419
761Unit: NT$ million
(2,392)Retained 
economic value1.*Operating costs and expenses included
2. Retained economic value = 
revenues – operating costs - operating expenses 
– income tax paidPaid-up capital  
Revenues
Operating cost 
Operating expenses 
Employee salaries and benefits *
Dividends paid to shareholders 
Income tax paid 
Expenses of social investment/donations *06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
18 19
19
Corporate Governance 14               CSR Management 19 
The Role of Management
The CSR committee conducts annual review of the Companys carbon management strategies, and appropriate budget 
implementation action plans, and sets related performance targets to ensure the incorporation of climate-related strategies in departments annual business operations. The related management mechanisms include:The Supervisory Responsibility of the Board of Directors
The chairperson and vice-chairperson of the CSR Committee are the Company s Chairman and President respectively, 
who both are also members of the Board of Directors of CHT. As the chairperson for Chunghwa Telecoms Risk Management Committee, the President can further manage the risks and opportunities related to climate change 
thanks to the overlapped responsibilities and familiarity thereof, so as to ensure that climate change-related issues 
are discussed and reviewed at the annual CSR Committee, while supervise and manage the routine operation via the existing internal control and risk management process and report to the Board of Directors.
Recognizing the importance of climate change issues, CHT started to promote the “Directions Governing the 
Performance of Senior Managers ” in 2018, incorporating “Corporate Social Responsibility ” and “Climate Change ” 
flexibly in the indicators for performance evaluation of the Directors and senior managers that are hooked with the 
compensations respectively.Climate Risk Management
Chunghwa Telecom builds a systematic and organized corporate governance structure to ensure that climate change-related challenges are incorporated into the Companys annual strategy in real time and that relevant projects are implemented.  
Setting the targets for 
Chunghwa Telecom 
greenhouse gas 
management and carbon 
reduction.Target 
Setting
Planning for energy efficiency 
enhancement projects 
and product/service of 
carbon intensity reduction 
strategies and action plans.Strategic 
Planning
Oversight and proposal of 
innovative solutions, including 
innovative ICT technologies 
& services and the reduction 
of CO 2 emissions within the 
Company and the industry.SolutionsWe launched a CSR management system in 2006, and established the “CSR Committee ” to stipulate sustainable 
policies. We also established six CSR groups, using a top-down approach to achieve sustainable action. The Chunghwa Telecom sustainable development strategy utilizes the competence and unique resources of the Company to implement 
sustainable action from the six groups with the focus on such matters as “Create social harmony, Digital inclusion, Green 
ICT products and services, Green brand management and Energy conservation and carbon reduction. ”CSR Management
The Environmental Sustainability Task Force is established under the Chunghwa Telecom CSR Committee to evaluate 
climate-related risks and opportunities via the Companys risk management procedures, which is carried out in accordance with the long-term strategies set by the Board of Directors, the needs of international investors, rating 
agencies, and stakeholders, and to faithfully implement various solutions.Chunghwa Telecom's CSR Vision
Innovation
Excellence
Sensation
ReliabilityCorporate 
Mission
Minimizing the digital divide
Implement environmental 
protection
Caring for the vulnerableSocial 
Contribution
Trust
Responsibility
Sharing
GrowthTeam 
Culture
Always caring, 
always aroundCustomer 
Relations
1. Facilitate positive business evolution through 
mobile, broadband, value-added and ICT 
integration services. 
2. Develop emerging service opportunities such 
as Cloud and IoT (Internet of Things); work with 
partners to generate best strategies. 
3. Continue to strengthen the applications of 
Internet facilities and information technologies 
to support business transformation and growth. 4. Strengthen resource utilization and management 
mechanism to improve the efficiency of resources. 
5. Develop overseas ICT market to explore new opportunities. 
6. Sharpen the unique advantage of the subsidiaries to enhance the Companys competitiveness. 
7. Infuse telecom expertise into corporate social responsibility issues to implement the Company's 
commitment to corporate citizenship.Corporate Social Responsibility Best-Practice Principles for Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd
1806 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
20 21
 20 21
Corporate Governance 14               CSR Management 19 
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation 
CEO
Head Office 
Executive SEVPs
Main Department 
Directors
CSR Secretariat
Corporate 
Volunteer 
Group
Environmental 
Sustainability 
Group
Digital 
Opportunities 
Group
Corporate 
Governance 
Group
Employee 
Care Group
Consumer Care 
Group
Chairperson: Chairman of the Board Vice Chairperson: President
Channel Item Content
Communication 
within Senior 
ManagementSenior 
management 
meetingMaterial CSR issues are discussed in the senior management meeting annually, 
and the resolution indicates our improvement and direction.
Employee 
ForumChunghwa 
Telecom online 
forumWe have an intra-site for employees to share opinions with the Company and make suggestions. We will discuss the issues of concern with the employees and resolve them timely.
Employee 
TrainingEnvironmental 
trainingWe provide at least 4 hours of training every year as well as educational ecological tours that instill a spirit of environmental sustainability.
CSR trainingWe provide CSR related education every year, and invite external consultants to run seminars and courses in accordance with international trends.
New employee 
training
New employees undergo digital pre-service training that includes the personnel system, working guidelines, and labor relations. The Labor Standards Act is explained in detail with respect to labor-management coordination and the 
handling of disputes.
e-Learning We post relevant training courses and information on the e-Learning system that 
can be downloaded and studied freely by the employees.Channel Item Content
Annual 
EvaluationAdministrative 
sustainability 
performanceWe set energy reduction targets and link the results with employees  
performance bonuses.
Online test on CoCAll our employees are required to take the “Chunghwa Telecom Code of 
Business Conduct Test” each year.
Reporting mechanismOnce an employee is found to violate corporate regulations, it will affect  
his/her performance bonuses. 
OthersCSR Report workshop Internal training on new ways of preparing reports is held from time to time.
Official website and 
Social mediaTo coordinate with modern stakeholders' communication pattern, we 
established dedicated CSR multimedia webpages on the official website, 
YouTube channel and a Facebook fan page as ways of communicating with our 
stakeholders.
   Internalization and Communication of CSR
To ensure that all employees understand the spirit of CSR, we have established diverse channels for communications and education of related topics. The initiative integrated with a performance evaluation that helps to translate the concept of CSR into actions and is practiced in routine operations.
The CSR Committee
The “Chunghwa Telecom CSR Committee” was established for expanding sustainable benefits of our core competence and implementing CSR vision as a starting point to promote the sustainable development of the industry and society.
Item Description
Representative Chi-Mau Sheih, Chairman 
Mechanism CSR Committee is responsible for coordinating each plan and supervising the progress of the policies approved by the Board of Directors. It also periodically reports the relevant issues and 
the results of communicating to stakeholders to the Board. The Board is in charge of the final 
performance evaluation every year. 
Execution • The Public Affairs Department is designated as CSR Secretariat. 
• The CSR Secretariat is responsible for relative policies and action planning. It is also in charge 
of budgeting, educational training, and management of follow-ups and awards measures. 
• The six groups, branches and affiliates are responsible for promotions and implementation of related projects. 
Meeting 
Frequency Quarterly 
Report Approval 
Reports are submitted to the Chairman for final approval after the managements' (SEVP) review. 
22 23The result of our CSR input has been the creation of profit in corporate operation and 
a maximization of shareholder value. Our shareholder structure allows us to carry on a broad citizen responsibility. Our position in the ICT industry and the innovative products and services we provide give us the opportunity to use technology and innovation to control the risks and grasp opportunities. Our innovative products and services have a positive economic influence on the value chain, create sustainable value for the industry and the public and greatly minimize the negative impact on the environment.2Chapter
Sustainability 
Value Strategy
The SDGs contributes to in this chapter ：  8 , 9 Six Main Capitals Create Sustainability Value  
Five Major Forces Drive the Sustainable Cycle
Creating Sustainable Value24
2426Six Main Capitals -“ Financial Capital, Human Resource  
Capital, Intelligence Capital, Manufacturing Capital, 
Social Capital and Nature Capital”
Five Major Forces - “The Motivator of the Digital 
Economy , The Creative Industry Pilot , The Happiness 
Value Protector , The Green Corporation Pioneer , and 
The Social Value Guide”Vision-“ Digital economy transformation, Industrial 
innovation, Talent startup , Happy corporation, 
Considerate services, Transform into a green 
corporation thoroughly , and Connect•Hope•
Technology”06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities03 Material Topics 
 and Impact01 Coporate
 Overview0 2 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy24 25
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
Six Main Capitals Create Sustainability Value  24                 Five Major Forces Drive the Sustainable Cycle  24                                               Creating Sustainable Value 26
Six Main Capitals Create Sustainability Value
Financial 
CapitalHuman 
Resource 
CapitalIntelligence 
CapitalSocial 
CapitalManufacturing 
CapitalNature 
Capital
Vision Vision Vision Vision Vision
Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy
StrategyDigital economy transformationIndustry innovation  
& Talent StartupHappy corporation  
& Considerate servicesConnect•Hope•TechnologyTransforming 
into a green  
corporation thoroughly• Becoming the 5G telecom leading brand
• Stimulating innovative application and creating new business models• Investing and fostering startup business
• Encouraging innovation and start-up internally• Establish a healthy 
and happy workplace
• Protect cyber and 
labor human rights
• Provide excellent 
innovative service• 5I SDGs digital  inclusion initiative
• Corporate volunteer work • 5G(Green) green action
• Constructing a green 
and low-carbon supply chainThe Motivator of the 
Digital EconomyThe Pilot of Creative IndustryThe Happiness Value ProtectorThe Green  
Corporation PioneerThe Social Value Guide
We utilize our ICT corporate core competence and integrate with CSR to 
establish the five main forces, “The Digital Economy Motivator, The Creative 
Industry Pilot, The Happiness Value Protector, The Green Corporation Pioneer 
and The Social Value Guide.” We think that the input in these five main fields will 
help accomplish a society with digital inclusion and the future of sustainability development.
25 24• Share capital  
77,574,465 thousand
• Capital expenditures  24,165,857 thousand• Salary and welfare expenses   46,155,421 thousand
• Training expenses  497,901 thousand• R&D expenses  3,941,446 thousand
• Marketing expenses  22,219,688 thousand• Equipment installation and 
maintenance expenses  
20,221,618 thousand
• Cell tower installation expenses 
4,438,241 thousand• Social investment  
760,701 thousand
• Universal telecom services   
425,633 thousand• Green procurement  
1,023,939 thousand
• Environmental management 
expenses   
328,558 thousand
Five Major Forces Drive the Sustainable Cycle26 27
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
Six Main Capitals Create Sustainability Value  24                 Five Major Forces Drive the Sustainable Cycle  24                                                          Creating Sustainable Value 26
Our CSR issues and actions have created sound economic, environmental and social value since 2006. Although 
we have made serious efforts to adapt quantized data when setting-up and managing CSR plans, targets and performance, we have come to realize the difficulty of quantizing environmental and social values. There is still lots of 
true value that cannot be realized with the currency presently used as evaluation indicators of CSR performance.
We have used a “True Value” method of calculation. Positive (+) and negative (-) currency values have been assigned in 
an assessment of our influence on society and the environment. This gives a sound idea of the real environmental and 
social value (profit and cost) of our sustainability efforts in 2019. The economic, social and environmental currency 
value CHT created on operation has also been blended in.  The true value CHT creates in 2019 is NT$ 22.73 billion.
Consolidated revenue
2,075 
The innovative 
research and 
development
39.4The green 
procurement
10.2The renewable 
energy (green energy) 
procurement
75Internal carbon  
pricing  
(greenhouse  
gas emission)
0.03Environmental 
management  
cost-general  
waste  
processing
1.91Environmental 
management  
cost-domestic  
water resource 
management 
0.3Social  
investment 
23.1Telecommunications 
universal service 
52The corporate 
volunteer service 
0.34Total 
2,273Creating Sustainable Value 
Shareholders
• EPS NT$ 4.23
• Consolidated revenue  
NT$ 207.5 billion
• Selected for the Emerging Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index for the 8
th timeClients / 
Costumers
• We have more than 53  thousand 
public Wi-Fi hotspots
• The customer satisfaction score is 
8.98 (10-point system)
• The customer hotline service 
satisfaction score is 4.74  (5-point 
system)Communities / NPOs
• We provide the disadvantaged 
groups' communication for 
62,387  households
• The subsidy amount is  
NT$ 172,682 thousand
• Coverage rate of the 12Mbps 
universal broadband service  is over 97.6 %
• The voice assistant App for the 
blind has been downloaded 54,270  times since 2013
• The location of digital good 
neighbor has accumulated to  89 placesSupply Chain 
Partners
•  10 certified Gold-tier sustainable 
partners
• The local procurement 
percentage takes up 95 % of the 
total procurement
• The green procurement amount 
is NT$ 1,024  million
Employees
• Employee salary and benefits are 
NT$ 46,155  million
• The average training hours per person are 44  hours
• The total training cost is  NT$ 497,901 thousand
• The total service hours of the corporate volunteer service are 
21,375  hours• The occupational injury rate per 
thousand workers is 0.69  for men 
and 0.18 for women
• We have 751  employees with 
disabilities (the legal amount is 
201 people)
•  49 aboriginal employees
• The employee satisfaction score is 
83.63  (out of 100)
Source of true value calculation for corporate volunteer serviceEconomic Value Environmental Value Social Value 
Unit: 100 millionPositive value Negative value
27 26Source of true value calculation for Telecom universal service ：
Research conclusion, Journal of China Institute of Technology Vol.40-2009.06~~~
~~~~~~
~~~239,149,000
239,149,000633,000
733,0001,493,000
28 29We intend to provide all stakeholders concerning the future of Chunghwa Telecom 
as well as the telecom industry with a more comprehensive understanding of how Chunghwa Telecom has exerted its industry influence on CSR topics. This purpose has improved the quality of our actions and disclosures.3Chapter
Material Topics 
and Impact
2019 Material Topics and Impact  
Stakeholders Engagement30
34The annual material topics are determined through 
the following process: internal feedback, external 
questionnaires, topic identification by the CSR 
Secretariat, topic analysis by the six CSR task forces, ranking the topics, and finally, confirming the results.
We have a set of procedures in place to identify, 
engage, interact, and communicate with stakeholders 
through various channels based on the Stakeholder 
Engagement Standard (AA 1000SES:2015).06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities0 3 Material Topics 
 and Impact01 Coporate
 Overview02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy30 31
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
30 31   2019 Material Topics and Impact 30               Stakeholders Engagement 34
Process for Determining Material Topics
STEP 1
Confirming the 
determining 
process for 
material topics
The CSR Secretariat calls for the six CSR working 
groups to confirm the material topics determining process of the current year. We perform through 
feedback and external questionnaires.STEP 3
The CSR working groups analyze topics and hold 
discussions based on internal consideration, industry status, industry chain practice, and 
advice from stakeholders. The topics are 
prioritized according to urgency and seriousness and the level of impact.STEP 2 STEP 4
The CSR Secretariat is responsible for identifying CSR topics while considering CHTs short-, mid-, and long-term achievement and referring to the material 
it collects including international guidelines, such 
as the GRI Standards, sustainability rating surveys, international business information benchmarks and the news related to CHT in 2019.Members of the CSR working groups were invited to consider the relevance between the topics and the actual operation according to 
internal and external information. The 2019 
topic identification results were confirmed and a materiality matrix was prepared for submission to the CSR Committee for approval.CHT is an integrated telecom service provider. Except for the use of electricity at business locations, facility rooms, and data centers, our other service processes and mechanisms have no major negative impact on the environment and society. However, with over 20 thousand employees, the capabilities of value chain procurement and supply 
and business locations all over Taiwan, we understand that our ICT services and products can bring positive 
transforming and business opportunities to the industry, economic development and people s life in Taiwan. 
Therefore, we seize opportunities and endeavor to decrease the potential risks from material CSR topics.2019 Material Topics and Impact
The Materiality Matrix 
1. ●: direct impact ； ▲: indirect impact ； : impact from business relations
2. Except for the impact within the CHT organization (including 2 subsidiaries), the influence of the external impact is 
determined by the “supplier type.” 
3. CHT also promotes relative management principles and actions. For detailed topic information, please refer to the 
corresponding chapter and page. 1. The materiality threshold: 2.6 and above for both the X-axis and the Y-axis (3-point scale) 2. Chunghwa Telecom also willingly discloses issues that are not identified as material issues in 2019, please refer to the topics 
with “
” in the index catalog (P .136-137). Building a happy business
Accurate product labelingThe integrity and business 
ethics of the employeesRigorous Cybersecurity Protection
Fair and equal labor-management 
relations and employee engagement
Corporate GovernanceInnovative ICT products and services
Health and safety
Climate change and energy 
management
Sustainable Supply ChainPublic Policy  ParticipationCHTHonghwa 
SubsidiaryCHT Security 
SubsidiaryEngineering 
SuppliersEquipment 
Suppliers
Economic Performance ● ▲ ▲
Market Presence ● ▲ ▲
Anti-Corruption ●
Energy ●
Employment ● ▲ ▲
Labor Management Relations ● ▲ ▲
Occupational Health and 
Safety● ▲ ▲
Marketing and Labelling ● ▲ ▲
Customer Privacy ● ▲ ▲
Socioeconomic Compliance ● ▲Within the 
organizationOutside the 
organizationRange of impact
Material TopicsEntityInfluence  of  stakeholder  assessments
 Significant impacts on the economy , environment , and societyHIGH
HIGH LOW
Information 
collecting / Topic 
identificationAnalysis / 
PrioritizingResult Confirmation / 
Materiality matrix32 33
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
32 33   2019 Material Topics and Impact 30               Stakeholders Engagement 34
Sustainability 
AspectMaterial Topics Meaning to CHT  Topic 
Corresponding to 
the GRI StandardsManagement 
Principle
 (page number)2019 
Performances 
(page number)Topic Corresponding to UN SDGs
EconomyInnovative 
ICT products 
and servicesDue to impacts from the global industrial chains, 
Chunghwa Telecom more proactively strengthens its core businesses, introducing momentum to drive 
revenues via innovative ICT products and services 
while elevating shareholders  willingness to hold shares in the long run.Economic Performance p.16 p.16
The integrity
 and business ethics 
of the employeesPerforming operational activities with the highest ethical standards not only complies with the 
regulations but also allows employees to reflect on 
themselves when performing business activities.Anti-Corruption p.17 p.17
EnvironmentClimate change 
and 
energy managementThe climate change issue has a close relation with 
the operation of a corporation. We actively establish 
relative plans and goals to strive for the reduction of the cost and risk related to climate change in the value chain.Energy p.96 p.97
SocietyBuilding
 a happy businessWe develop benefits better than the regulations, enhance employees' well-being, and act to give employees peace of mind to work and share business 
results.Market Presence
Employmentp.66,67 p.66,67
Fair and equal
 labor-management 
relations and 
employee engagementThrough formal engagement, an agreement can be 
reached regarding the rights and responsibilities of employees to both protect them and the employer.Labor / Management 
Relationsp.70 p.70
Health and safetyWe incorporated ISO 45001 to ensure that each process is in compliance with the regulation.Occupational Health 
and Safetyp.76 p.78
Accurate product 
labellingWe accurately communicate product and service information, and actively provide instructions and usage regulations to ensure that consumers are 
aware of the effects of overuse of products and 
services.Marketing and Labelling p.17 p.17
Rigorous Cybersecurity 
ProtectionWe have continued to strengthen our processes and systems in response to external security threats and regulatory changes, and constantly refine information 
security systems and management strategies for 
consumer data protection. Customer Privacy p.85 p.85
Corporate GovernanceThe upright operation is the core value CHT insists on. We make the employees strictly follow the laws and regulations through policies and propaganda.Socioeconomic 
Compliancep.17 p.172019 Material Topics Description34 35
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
34 35   2019 Material Topics and Impact 30               Stakeholders Engagement 34
StakeholderMeaning to  
Chunghwa TelecomFocused TopicsCommunication 
ChannelCommunication 
Frequency
As shareholders / investors are 
our stockholders, we must be accountable to them.• Economic  
Performance
• Anti-Corruption• Shareholders meeting
• Shareholder 
hotline
• Earning results 
conference• Annually
• Real-time
• Quarterly
Employees are critical to the sustainable development and they are the driving force for 
sustainable growth.• Market Presence
• Energy
• Employment
• Labor / Management 
Relations
• Occupational 
Health and Safety• E-mail 
• Telephone call
• Online forum
• Labor employer 
meeting
• Negotiation 
meeting• Real-time
• Every 2 
months
Only when customers prefer the 
products and services of Chunghwa Telecom could we have value for existence.• Marketing  and Labelling
• Customer Privacy• Service hotline
• Customer service centerReal-time
The large product and service chain 
of Chunghwa Telecom relies on the 
stable support of the suppliers.• Occupational Health and Safety• E-mail
• Hotline
• CSR Supplier Conference
• Supplier 
Training
• Survey• Real-time
• Annually
We wish to reciprocate to society with our professional standing in telecom and create a better future. • Energy
• Socioeconomic Compliance• E-mail
• Hotline
• Stakeholder  
forumReal-time
We have learned and grown 
with the media and accreditation 
institutes through their mentorship in sustainable development.• Socioeconomic Compliance• E-mail
• Hotline
• Press release
• Press conference
• SurveyReal-time
Our products, services and related 
marketing behaviors are subject to 
audits by the competent authority.• Anti-corruption
• Socioeconomic Compliance• E-mail
• Official document
• Meeting
• Telephone call
• VisitReal-time
As the leading brand in the telecom industry in Taiwan, we strive to engage in fair competition in the 
industry for a healthy development 
of the industry.• Economic  
Performance• Official document
• Meeting
• Telephone call1-2 times annuallyB
E
GC
F
HWe have always thought that “Chunghwa Telecom can do more.” As the leading brand in the telecom industry in 
Taiwan, CHT focuses on industry development and competition. In addition to good products, services and profits, we also give back to society. We also pay close attention to the voices of our internal and external stakeholders 
before making careful responses to the needs of society.
The identification of the stakeholders and their issues is a very important part of the practice of CSR. In the initial 
meeting of CSR report preparation, we invite members from all departments to exchange the issues related to current key stakeholders and their concerns. Upon reaching mutual understanding, the result is incorporated into 
a table that is regarded as an essential reference for the disclosures in the report. In the process of promoting CSR 
activities and information disclosure, we consult the opinion of the internal and external stakeholders, important relevant mechanisms include:
・ “Consultation meeting with external professionals” for CSR report 
・ Regular invitation of external professionals to the “ CSR Conference” and relevant forums 
・ The “ CSR Supplier Conference” is held every year 
・ Specialists designated for CSR and the CHT Foundation 
・ CHT was the first to create “CSR videos” and the CHT official YouTube CSR program to record the implementation 
of CSR action on a regular basis, as well as the collection of internal and external feedback for further improvementStakeholders Engagement
CHT Stakeholder Engagement Guideline:CSR Video link
CHT Stakeholder Communication Channel
CHT Stakeholder Engagement AgreementCHT Stakeholder Engagement Guideline
Influenced 
by CHTCHT 
is responsible of 
making responses
May affect 
CHT’s 
operational 
performanceG D
E A
B CHFA
DShareholders /
Investors
Employees
Clients / 
Customers
Suppliers
Communities /
NPOs
Competent 
Authorities
CompetitorsMedia / 
Accreditation 
Institutes36 37
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
36 37   2019 Material Topics and Impact 30               Stakeholders Engagement 34
In 2019, we officially launched “supplier sustainability rating” system to bridge 
to the international standards. The supplier sustainability rating comes with four ratings, i.e. Gold, Silver, Bronze, and Participation, which is audited and certified 
by SGS-Taiwan. On 2019 Annual CSR Supplier Conference, President Shui-Yi Kuo 
awarded 10 outstanding suppliers that passed the “Second-Party Audit” for sustainable supply chain the Certificate of Gold-tier.
The suppliers awarded with “Gold-tier Certificate” in the first year are 10 
brilliant suppliers, including Nokia Taiwan, Ericsson in Taiwan, Hua Eng Wire 
& Cable Co., Ltd., Ta Ya Electric Wire & Cable Co., Ltd., Chung-Hsin Electric & Machinery Manufacturing Corp., D-Link Corporation, Zyxel Communications Corp., LienSheng Telecom Technology Co., Ltd., Stark Technology Inc., and 
Evertop Wire Cable Corporation. On the Annual CSR Supplier Conference, “CSR 
Information disclosure Award” and “CDP Award” are also presented to recognize the outstanding performances of the suppliers in the CSR issues.
On the Annual CSR Supplier Conference this year, Mr. Stephen Pao, Sr. Assistant 
Director, attended on behalf of the SGS-Taiwan, presenting the assurance 
statements of the two international environmental standards introduced in 2019, ISO 14046 for water footprint and ISO 14067 for carbon footprint while announcing that Chunghwa Telecom is the first telecom carrier in the industry of Taiwan that obtained “two international environmental standards” that 
endeavors to implement its philosophy of environmental sustainability.
On the Conference, we also proclaimed that the supplier management will be 
strengthened starting from 2020. In addition to incorporating the sustainability certification mechanism into the supplier evaluation, brilliant suppliers of 
“sustainable supply chain” will be recognized so as to create a sustainable future 
for the industry together. Upholding “customer-centered value creation,” we shall join hands to fulfill the prospect of “Leader in Smart Living” and “Agent of Digital Economy Empowerment.” “Strategic Transformation & Sustainable 
Upgrade” 2019 Annual CSR Supplier 
Conference2019 Results of Critical Stakeholders Engagement
6 Labor-management 
conferences  
（including 1 Unscheduled 
meetings）
7 Negotiation meeting1 Annual general meeting
4 Earning results 
conferencesThe “123 customer service 
hotline” has served over 
35.1 million  case7 press conferences and 
public hearings convened
510  appeal and 
negotiation meetings 
completed243  Press releases  
in total 
35 Press conferences  
in totalEmployeesShareholders / 
InvestorsClientsCompetent 
AuthoritiesMedia Suppliers
Approximately  100  
suppliers participating 
in the “2019 Annual CSR 
Supplier Conference”
Approximately 50 
suppliers participating in 
the Supplier Sustainable 
Environmental Visits03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
01 公司綜覽                    02 永續價值策略                    03 重大議題與衝擊                     
1.	  
38 39CHT places emphasis on the control of the corporate operation and sustainability 
risk. In 2016, the Company established a Risk Management Committee with the President as convener and high rank managers as members. The committee supervises risk management throughout the organization and is responsible for prioritizing identified risks, formulating response strategies to key risk issues, and reporting to the board of directors when deemed necessary. Through control of the mechanism at each level, potential risks and loss to the Company can be minimized.4Chapter
Sustainability Risks 
and Opportunities
The SDGs CHT contributes to in this chapter: 7 , 9 , 11 , 13 
Emerging Opportunities
Emerging Risks
Climate Change Risks and Opportunities
Cybersecurity Risks42
424450Our “Risk Management Committee ” adopts Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) software and the “Risk 
Analysis Matrix” as our assessment tools, governing 
every business decision made by our employees.
The development of the Artificial Intelligence of Things 
(AIoT) will popularize edge computing, IoT phone 
numbers, drones, AR, VR, and smart homes. These 
emerging industries will propel the development of 
hardware and operating systems.
CHT is the first telecom company in Taiwan to sign 
the support statement issued by the Task Force on  
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
CHT promises that it will submit its Science Based 
Targets (SBT) on carbon reduction for review within the 
next 2 years.
CHT is actively looking into the development of  
renewable energy. We have the largest capacity ,  
self-built or otherwise, for solar energy among all 
telecom companies in Taiwan.Adopting a risk-based approach, CHT established 
the“Chunghwa Telecom Cybersecurity and Privacy 
Protection Framework .” Based on NIST’s Cybersecurity 
Framework (CSF) and domestic and international 
standards and regulations, the framework includes five 
steps: identify, protect, detect, respond, and improve.06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value0 4 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities03 Material Topics 
 and Impact01 Coporate
 Overview02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy40 41
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
BoD /
 Audit Committee
Risk Management Committee
Risk Management Managing Unit
Risk Management Executing Unit
Executive 
Secretariat
Audit UnitCHT Risk Management 
Organization Structure
Identifying and Analyzing Climate Change Related Risks
Chunghwa Telecom's Risk Management Committee is the highest level of risk management within the Company. 
Led by CHTs President in conjunction with committee members, the committee takes charge of risk management. Identifying and analyzing climate related risks are important responsibilities of CHTs Risk Management Committee. 
Issues are prioritized based on the types of risks and urgency involved. CHTs CSR Environmental Sustainability 
Group and Administration & Assets Department formulates an action plan to respond to climate-related risks, which is reported on the Committee as the Committee reports to the Board in a timely manner.
Managing and Assessing Climate Change Related Risks
CHTs Environmental Sustainability Group systematically reviews climate change-related issues that could potentially impact day-to-day business operations and comes up with countermeasures based on its “Five Year Plan 
of Sustainable Development Strategies and Goals. ” 
The review process includes a scenario analysis of physical and transitional risks and how they could affect major business operations. It also evaluates the effectiveness of energy-saving practices and the adaptability of equipment, ensuring normal operation even in extreme weather conditions. The potentiality of natural disasters is considered in the construction of telecom equipment. In other words, we assess the risks of earthquakes, tsunamis, geological 
instability, and other weather-related risks to ensure our equipment operates correctly and to ensure the safety of 
our employees in the event of a natural disaster.
Including Weather Related Risks  
in the Internal Risk Management Framework
CHTs CSR Environmental Sustainability Group keeps track of climate change on a regular basis and submits a 
yearly assessment report to the Risk Management Committee through Administration & Asset department, which, if necessary, takes measures to mitigate the level of risks. 
Based on the task forces feedback, the Risk Management Committee will seek ways to improve the existing risk 
management model to ensure that the process is consistent with our business goals. And after the Chief Audit Executive s final review, reports the assessment results to the Board of Directors. Our goal is to incorporate climate 
change-related risks into our existing internal risk management framework.Aspects Description
Organizational 
Aspect• The “ Risk Management Committee ” was established
Strategic Aspect• The BoD established the risk management strategy and structure 
• The “Risk Management Regulations ” were established as a foundation and are followed by 
all employees engaged in business operations
Management 
System• The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system was established for the regular control of 
the risks from each division and business
Assessment 
tool• We use the “Risk Analysis Matrix ” as our assessment tool to assess legal, network 
maintenance, market and financial operation risks , etc. 
• For the major operational items and relative CSR issues, we enhance the performance of 
sensitivity analysis and the pressure test
Audit Aspect• The executive Secretariat helps promote the risk management activities in all company 
• The Auditor reviews the risks and reports to the BoD
Feedback and 
Improvement• Risk status is followed up monthly and reported to the Risk Management Committee 
generally 
• The Committee improves the current risk management mechanism based on feedback 
from individual units to ensure the process is up to date and satisfies the operational need
Implementation 
outcomes in 2019• 1 meeting were convened
• Risk management implementation was included in the performance evaluation of 
managers; major risk incidents of network, marketing, and convergence were identified for an enhanced control
42 43
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
42 43   Emerging Opportunities 42               Emerging Risks 42               Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 44               Cybersecurity Risks 50
The 5G technology will drive intelligent technological applications. AI will be everywhere around us in the future. 
Completely new types of services such as AIoT (AI and IoT) will become the core of fast convergence. The rise of new industries, edge computing, the volume of the IoT, drones, AR, VR and the intelligent family will push corporations 
in Taiwan to move their business emphasis. We predict that the global output value of AI hardware will exceed NT$ 
5 trillion. This will inevitably become an important force in pushing global economic growth. With the advent of Industry 4.0 and the rapid emergence of new online applications, cybersecurity specialists are issuing warnings regarding the looming threat of multimodal, multifaceted attacks. However, this also creates an opportunity for 
companies that offer an integrated cybersecurity service package. The government has classified information 
security as a “matter of national security, ” including it as part of the “national defense industry ” in the “5+2 New 
and Innovative Industries Policy. ”Emerging Opportunities
CHT continues with advanced technological research and development to take advantage of the many business opportunities in this digital convergence era and reduce operational risk. We absorb, cultivate and make good use of 
excellent available talent to integrate Internet and marketing resources. We Emerging  
RisksIn the face of the trends of user-friendliness and rapid launch of diversified emerging technological applications, 
security perimeters are blurred as a result. Meanwhile, openness and softwareization increase the chance of exposure as well, which in turn pose a threat to security. Hence, apart from taking user experience and service functions into 
consideration, corporations are to employ the concept of Secured by Design in the beginning of development in order 
to effectively reduce potential information security risks.
CHT spares no effort in the refinement of cybersecurity technology. In response to the governments cybersecurity 
automatization and industry innovation policies, in 2017, CHT founded Chunghwa Cybersecurity International, a 
subsidiary dedicated to the development of integrated cybersecurity solutions especially for emerging technologies. 
We hope that our endeavors will encourage other companies to follow suit, while effectively broadening opportunities in information security and driving the growth of revenues apart from the reinforcement of national cybersecurity defense capability.
Opportunity Factors Potential Business Opportunity Countermeasures (Risk Avoidance and Opportunity Seizure)
Information Security Management• Popularization of emerging technological applications (e.g. IoT, AI, and cloud 
services) as well as diversified attacks by hackers gradually blur the existing 
security perimeters and boost the challenge of protection against cybersecurity threat while create new opportunities in the cybersecurity area.
• The Executive Yuan announced the Cybersecurity Industry Development Action 
Plan in 2018. The gross output of the industry is expected to exceed NT$ 78 billion 
dollars by 2025.
• Gartner predicts the investing amount the companies put into information 
security will rise to US$ 146 billion in 2021 with a compound annual growth rate of 
8.4% around the globe.• Our in-house developed multi-factor identity authentication technology can be incorporated into and with smart energy, smart 
cities, smart healthcare, and smart homes, providing a safe and reliable biometric identification system for IoT networks. 
• Developing inter-disciplinary financial security solutions, we strive to become a cybersecurity service provider for digital finance.
• With our current IT solutions, we offer complex solutions for clients using ICS/OT infrastructure connected to a hybrid network. 
• As a managed security service provider (MSSP), we dedicated to the provision of a wide range of cybersecurity solutions. In addition 
to extending our market reach within the border, we are actively seeking business opportunities overseas. 
• Maintain our leading position in the industry by consolidating our advantages in internet services, distributions channels, and R&D 
capabilities with domestic and overseas high-quality products to provide integrated solutions to large enterprise clients. IoT / Big Data• International research institute Gartner predicts that the IoT product and service 
providers will create a marginal benefit of US$ 300 billion in 2020.
• The global IoT output value in 2025 will be US$ 6 trillion.• We are forming a national IoT team. Through allying with the international and Taiwanese companies, we create 
international competitiveness for the IoT industry in Taiwan. There are now 40 first-tier companies in the alliance. 
• We developed the IoT intelligent internet platform on our own, combining 5 main services, including information 
security, big data, the blockchain, AI, and AR.Development of 5G • Forecasts show that 5G technology will result in an output of US$ 134 billion to the companies in Taiwan in 2035.• Launching “Taiwan 5G Industry Development Alliance - CHT leading team” with the 5G office in DoIT, ITRI, and III.
• CHT Pilot Team extends laboratory testing to practical “5G Testing and Training Site.”  All industries in Taiwan can take 
advantage of this environment to develop innovative applications and grasp the opportunities.
Climate Change  
(low carbon products  
and services)• For 3 consecutive years, the WEF s annual risk report has cited “extreme weather events” 
as the top risk factor in terms of occurrence possibility.
• Businesses around the globe are investing in low carbon emission infrastructure, including 
green energy, electric automobiles, and smart cities to reduce reliance on electricity.
• According to the data by the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), the green bonds worldwide in 2019 made it through $250 billion, which was over 60 times of those in 2013.• “Green Product and Service Program ”— we provide businesses with energy-saving technology and services. 
• By combining innovative green services, such as video conferencing, e-bills, and other cloud services, with our existing technology, we 
plan to build smart cities with lower carbon emission. 
• We are building a cloud service platform that enables clients to access real time data regarding their energy usage and equipment status 
so that failures can be predicted and prevented. 
• We began investing in the photovoltaics and Green ICT industries in 2017, establishing the Smart Energy Lab and the Smart Architecture 
Lab. As of 2019, we have the largest capacity, self-built or otherwise, for solar energy among all telecom companies in Taiwan.
Risk Factor Potential Influences (Obstacles) Countermeasures (Risk Avoidance and Opportunity Seizure)
Energy supply 
stability• The electricity supply is unstable and insufficient
• The renewable energy allocation is not efficient yet• We are increasing the percentage of self-built renewable energy devices and have set up emergency power generating 
equipment to avoid interruption to our services in times of crisis.The 5G business 
model is unclear• The cost of our 4G investment has not been fully recovered and 5G belongs to 
the high-frequency spectrum. We predict that serious investment will need to 
be made to satisfy the requirements for new construction in the near future.• We have developed an IoT intelligent internet platform by combining five main services, which are information 
security, big data, blockchains, AI and AR.
• We expect IoT applications to develop rapidly with the advent of 5G and we already have 3 million phone numbers 
authorized by the NCC. We intend to provide IoT for both industrial and domestic applications.The decrease 
in the voice revenue• Market competition and VoIP have caused a slight decrease in voice revenue
• We continue to maintain our competitive edge in broadband Internet, even in 
the face of low-price competition from cable television.• In addition to enhancing current core business, we continue with new product research and development, as well as service and 
value-added applications. These include video service, information security, IoT, the cloud, mobile payment and other new business.
• We are concentrating on applications related to big data, information security, the cloud, IoT, 5G and the intelligent city. CHT is being transformed into the leading brand for information, communications and digital convergence.
 CHT IoT Smart Platformcooperate closely with our strategic partners in the launch of new services and products that satisfy our customers. 
We have become “The Digital Economy Motivator and The Creative Industry Pilot, ” and we create values for clients, 
shareholders, employees and society.44 45
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
44 45   Emerging Opportunities 42               Emerging Risks 42                Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 44               Cybersecurity Risks 50
With the current trends associated with global climate change, the mitigation of greenhouse gas emission has 
become a critical issue in global economic development since the Paris Agreement entering into force and the UN proposal of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
To facilitate the transparent disclosure of climate risks and opportunities, Chunghwa Telecom became 
the first telecom company in Taiwan to sign on as supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) initiative. Our 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report also discloses climate 
 
change-related information in accordance with the suggested frameworks of TCFD.Climate Change Risks and Opportunities
Commitment to Science Based Targets and their Development
Chunghwa Telecom Disclosures to TCFD
Framework Disclosures Page
Governance• The board s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities p.40
• Managements role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and 
opportunitiesp.40
Strategy• The climate-related risks and opportunities the company has identified over the short, medium, and long-termp.45
• The impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the Companys businesses, strategy, and financial planningp.45
• The potential impact of the Companys businesses, strategy, and financial planning in different scenariosp.46
Risk 
Management• The Companys processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks p.41
• The Companys processes for managing climate-related risks p.40
• Processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks and how they are integrated into the Companys overall risk managementp.40
Metrics and 
Targets• The metrics used by the company to assess climate-related risks and opportunitiesp.48
• Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions p.49
• The targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and their implementationp.105Climate-related Risks, Opportunities, and Financial Impacts on CHT
As the industry leader in telecom, Chunghwa Telecom has upheld the company tagline “Always Ahead ” through 
our contribution to society and the industry by our utilization of the industrys core value and influence. We believe 
that the opportunities brought about by climate change shall be reflected in our future products and services. 
Chunghwa Telecom shall continue to pay close attention to and seek out green technologies and targets suitable for 
development. We hope to gain momentum developing more innovative products, services, and businesses as well as getting ahead in the low-carbon smart economy. 
Chunghwa Telecom has evaluated and analyzed climate-related risks and opportunities by looking at distinct periods 
of time, including short-term (2020), medium-term (2020-2030), and long-term (post 2030).
medium- term
2020-2030
long-term
(post 2030)short-term
2020①. Policy & Regulation: Emission disclosure 
responsibility 
②. Policy & Regulation: Increased cost of GHG emissions 
③. Technology: Replacement of existing 
products and services with low-carbon alternatives 
④. Technology: Lack of investment in 
innovative low-carbon technologies 
⑤. Technology: Transitional costs of low-
carbon technologies 
⑥. Market: Abrupt changes in energy 
(electricity) costs 
⑦. Reputation:  Appraisals by domestic/
foreign investors and sustainability awards 
⑧. Reputation: Changes in consumer 
preferences 
⑨. Reputation: Stigmatization of industryTransitional Risks
①. Acute: Increased severity in extreme 
weather events (heavy rainfall, regional flooding) 
②. Chronic: Changes in regional rainfall 
patterns 
③. Chronic: Increased average temperaturePhysical (Natural) RisksFinancial Impacts  
on Chunghwa TelecomRisk Factors
①. Policy & Regulation: Increased 
operational costs (e.g. increased 
regulatory or insurance costs) 
②. Policy & Regulation: Increased insurance liability caused by climate-related impacts 
③. Technology: Development of new 
and alternative technologies and their development expenditure 
④. Technology:  Capital invested in 
technological development 
⑤. Market: Increased insurance liability 
caused by climate-related impacts 
⑥. Market: Abrupt changes in energy 
(electricity) costsTransitional Risks
①. Decreased revenue caused by 
lowered manufacturing capacity 
(transportation difficulties, supply chain disruption) 
②. Decreased revenue and increased 
costs caused by negative effects on 
employees (cost of workplace absence and care due to health, safety, or medical issues)Physical (Natural) Risks
1 157
1 6 24 12
21 3 1 32 891 6 24 2
1 6 35 122 151 2
To establish clear medium- and long-
term goals, in 2020 we shall commit to the 
submission of our targets to the Science 
Based Targets (SBT) for evaluation within 
two years. It is expected that the substantive 
benefits of energy-saving and carbon 
reduction shall be reflected in the 
revenues from green products. In addition 
to such benefits, we shall also implement 
the public disclosure of information 
related to our carbon management 
achievements in our annual  
corporate social respon -
sibility report. 46 47
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
46 47   Emerging Opportunities 42               Emerging Risks 42                Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 44               Cybersecurity Risks 50
Impacts of Climate-related Risks on Chunghwa Telecom
Chunghwa Telecom deeply understands the importance of climate change issues and knows that the inability to 
comply with environmental regulations may incur regulatory fines, a loss of competitive advantages within the industry, stakeholder concerns, and impact the Companys image and reputation.Carbon Reduction Practices and Measures 
Potential Climate-related Risks on CHT’s Operations  
1. The rising global temperature and intensifying extreme weather due to enhanced greenhouse effect have 
led to the threat of severe typhoons and flooding; the industrial and residential water usage in certain 
regions have also been affected by water shortage crises. Therefore, more resources need to be invested in natural disaster prevention, post-disaster facility maintenance, and operational energy access. 
2. The government s implementation of the Greenhouse Gas Reduction and Management Act shall result 
in the enforcement of greenhouse gas emission control and the liberalization of carbon rights & carbon emission trading. The corresponding increases to our operational costs, due to Chunghwa Telecoms significant reliance on energy in the maintenance of networks and computer facilities, will undoubtedly impact our finances. 
Management of Service Centers’ Carbon Footprints
We carried out carbon footprint inventory for the service center in 2019, which not only is ISO 14067 and PAS 2060 verified, but attains the Environmental Protection Administration Carbon Footprint Label in Q2, 2020, making Chunghwa Telecom the first 
telecom company in Taiwan to acquire the label. This shall be beneficial for the“green 
communication” between the customers and ourselves.Opportunities and Strategies
Chunghwa Telecom adopts a two-pronged strategy which is dedicated to the pursuit of a low-carbon transition and taking advantage of future business opportunities both internally and externally.
Chunghwa Telecom has utilized its long-established experience in the development of information & 
communication systems and environmental monitoring systems for electrical environments to integrate and 
monitor our clients energy-consuming equipment inside their buildings. Weve also adopted a cloud platform to provide clients with services such as energy-saving performance calculations, equipment operational status monitoring, and real-time notifications. These services help businesses lower carbon reduction threshold and reach their energy-saving and carbon reduction targets. 
As for our development of renewable energy, Chunghwa Telecom has invested thousands of manpower to build 
the Zhangbin Solar Power Plant. This plant is the countrys largest solar power plant, with a total capacity of 100 MW and an annual output of 130 million kWh. The power plant reduces annual CO
2 emissions by 70,000 
metric tons, creating revenues for the Company and thus is a mutually beneficial endeavor benefitting both the environment and our operations.In order to adapt to the potential changes in the environmental and climate change regulations & international accords, we have developed the following strategy:
Close Observation of Regulatory Changes both Domestically and Abroad
Establishment of the “Five-year Plan of Strategy and Goal for Environmental 
Sustainability Development ” through active engagement with the competent 
authorities, related organizations, and other stakeholders to expand environmental 
protection efforts through the pursuit of “green corporation, ” “green sustainability, ” 
and “green innovation ” goals. Weve also implemented hazard mitigation measures for 
computer facilities and climate adaptation plans to strengthen emergency response 
measures and reduce climate risks.
Development of Renewable Energy
In 2017, we crossed into the solar photovoltaic field with the establishment of smart energy offices and office buildings, along with the development of Green ICT. By the end of 2019, Chunghwa Telecom had topped the industry in the energy capacity of solar photovoltaic facilities, including those installed in our own facilities and those 
commissioned by other businesses. We have also installed solar panels on cell towers in 
remote mountainous areas to reduce energy consumption and carbon emission; these panels can also provide power to the cell towers in the case of a power outage to support emergency communications.
Establishment of a Sustainable, Low-Carbon Supply Chain
In 2017, Chunghwa Telecom joined the CDP Supply Chain Program and became the first telecom company in Taiwan to participate in CDPs international platform. The official implementation of our carbon management measures with our 100 suppliers prompted 
them to disclose complete greenhouse gas information in a positive and proactive 
manner and commence planning of carbon management measures and strategies. 
We incorporated the ISO 20400 Sustainable Procurement Standard in 2018 to implement 
our sustainable development beliefs in procurement practices; “green supply chain
” was constructed in 2019 through a sustainable perspective, supplier evaluation, and 
classification management, with 10 suppliers passing the external third-party auditing and obtaining the “ Gold-tier Certificates. ”
Development of Low-Carbon Products and Services
In addition to mitigating the environmental impact caused by our operations, products, and services, we have reduced our carbon footprint via green innovative services and revolutionary technologies such as video conference, digital receipt services, and cloud 
products. Weve also utilized the technological advantage in our primary businesses 
to help build smart cities; an example of such low-carbon solutions is a smart taxi dispatch system that lowers the number of empty cabs on the road and reduces fuel consumption.Establishment of the Company’s “Environmental 
Sustainable Development Strategies and Targets”  
via organized, systematic methods. Effectively improving the effective management of carbon 
emissions and other environmental information 
through the use of our internally developed environmental information management system.
Development of green products and services to develop renewable energy and provide businesses with energy-saving technologies 
and services.Internally
Externally48 49
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
48 49   Emerging Opportunities 42               Emerging Risks 42                Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 44               Cybersecurity Risks 50
Chunghwa Telecom Internal 
Carbon Pricing Analysis
Carbon Management 
ScenarioCarbon Pricing Adopted  
(Shadow Price)Scope of GHG 
EmissionsNumber of Operating 
Locations Involved
Voluntary Carbon 
Reduction TargetNT$ 200/t-CO 2e Scope 1 + Scope 2Headquarters, Business 
Groups and Branches
Business Group / 
BranchEmission 
Changes  
in 2019Carbon Price 
Allocated  
(NT$ 10,000)Business Group / 
BranchEmission Changes 
in 2019Carbon Price 
Allocated  
(NT$ 10,000)
Headquarters (2.58) - Yunlin Branch (694.17) -
Northern Taiwan 
Business Group(21,247.68) - Changhua Branch (4,289.25) -
Taipei Branch (5,858.09) - Pingtung Branch (808.90) -
New Taipei Branch (9,033.29) - Kaohsiung Branch (3,576.24) -
Yilan Branch (505.63) -Company Data 
Communication 
Business Group9,150.97 183.02
Hualien Branch (644.89) -Corporate Business 
Group95.22 1.90
Miaoli Branch (936.66) - Mobile Business Group (740.53) -
Taoyuan Branch (2,493.20) -Mobile Business Group- 
Taipei Branch(1,232.21) -
Keelung Branch (1,306.90) -Mobile Business Group- 
Taichung Branch(4,480.86) -
Hsinchu Branch (1,711.07) -Mobile Business Group- 
Kaohsiung Branch3,387.99 67.76
Southern Taiwan 
Business Group105.15 2.10International Business 
Group(1,381.08) -
Taichung Branch (3,552.52) -Chunghwa Telecom 
Laboratories(752.81) -
Taitung Branch 338.94 6.78 Institute Headquarters (39.01) -
Tainan Branch (3,212.33) -Institute Taichung 
Branch(68.41) -
Nantou Branch 991.94 19.84Institute Kaohsiung 
Branch(250.78) -
Company Data 
Communication 
Business Group(898.01) - Total (55,646.89) 281.42017 2018 2019 
Direct emissions (Scope 1) 30,873.98 30,469.89 28,455.59
Indirect emissions (Scope 2) 802,113.48 804,043.42 795,295.50 
Total emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) 832,987.46 834,513.30 823,751.09 
Emission intensity (t-CO 2e/NTD million) 3.7 3.9 4.0 
Percentage of scope in revenue 100% 100% 100%Unit: t-CO 2e
Chunghwa Telecom Scope 3 Emissions
Product & Service Procurement
Waste Treatment
Employee Commuting
Business Travel
Fuel- and Energy-related Activities
Product Transportation
Leased Assets1,000,094,859 
43.67 
98,250 
265,159.549
 217,456,260Upstream
Downstream1,129,230
2,734,650
Internal Carbon Pricing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management 
Scope 3 Emissions Inventory and Verification Chunghwa Telecom first introduced the concept of carbon pricing management in 2018 to enable stress testing 
from a risk management perspective. In 2019, we established the stress testing scenario evaluating voluntary carbon reduction targets. Although the current greenhouse gas emission reduction and management methodology 
has yet to establish the telecom industry s total greenhouse gas emissions, we at Chunghwa Telecom continue to 
follow our voluntary medium- and long-term carbon reduction targets, which serve as the basis for the calculation 
of internal carbon pricing and the evaluation of internal energy-saving and carbon reduction projects.The total greenhouse gas emissions in 2019 were 823,751.09 t-CO
2e, 
consisting of six types of greenhouse gases, namely, CO 2, CH 4, N 2O, HFC s, 
PFC s, and SF 6.
As the operations of Chunghwa Telecom primarily use electrical power, the greenhouse gas is mainly scope 2 emissions (purchased electricity), 
accounting for a percentage of 96.55%. Scope 1 emissions, which account 
for 3.45%, are mostly generated by workplace emission sources. Through implementation of various energy-saving carbon reduction measures, the total emissions in 2019 demonstrated a slight decrease as a result.
To facilitate the decrease of greenhouse gas emissions, Chunghwa Telecom 
has actively built solar photovoltaic systems in recent years, reducing carbon 
emissions by 51,168 kg-CO
2e; we also acquired 96 Taiwan Renewable Energy 
Certificates (T-REC) in 2019.
Chunghwa Telecom conducts regular annual inventories of the organization s greenhouse gas emissions and conforms 
with the internationally mainstream scope 3 inventory guidance, investigating the greenhouse gas emissions of upstream and downstream activities to calculate scope 3 carbon emissions. Among these emissions, our inventory 
data on business travel emissions obtained the verification certificate by SGS-Taiwan. The modes of transport used by 
Chunghwa Telecom s employees for business travel principally consist of the following: (1) land transport (high speed 
rail), (2) air transport (airplanes). The total greenhouse gas emissions of business travel in 2019 was 265,159.549 kg-CO
2e.Notes: Carbon management scenarios are based on voluntary medium- and long-term carbon emission reduction targets. With 2017 as the base year, the carbon emission reduction of the Company s buildings should accumulate to a total of 
10% by 2023. In other words, Chunghwa Telecom should reach an accumulated greenhouse gas emission reduction of 83,295.75 t-CO
2e in its buildings by 2023.
Note: Greenhouse gas inventory and verification are carried out in accordance with the ISO 14064-1:2016 standard. The source 
of the global warming potential (GWP) is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report. 
All data has been verified by SGS-Taiwan.
Note: The numbers in the parentheses signify a decrease in carbon emissions compared to 2018; therefore, no carbon price is allocated.t-CO 2e
Unit: kg-CO 2e50 51
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
50 51   Emerging Opportunities 42               Emerging Risks 42             Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 44                  Cybersecurity Risks 50
Driven by the Industry 4.0 development and emerging network applied technologies (e.g. 5G application, 
softwareization, cloudification, IoT, and AI), cybersecurity threats have evolved into multi-faceted mixed attacks that increase challenges for enterprises in cybersecurity management. Chunghwa Telecom continues to develop 
risk protection countermeasures, bridges to international information security standards, and has established 
joint-defense mechanism with the government and international information security organizations, dedicated to the elevation of overall cybersecurity defense and response capabilities. Also, CHT proactively develops key cybersecurity technologies, besides facilitating developments of emerging businesses, and to offer its clients a 
secured and reliable digital environment.
In light of the open architecture and myriad vertical application integration of 5G development in the future, 
Chunghwa Telecom has incorporated security requirements in its 5G construction planning, in line with the cybersecurity standards of ITU and 3GPP so as to ensure the security, resilience, and reliability of its 5G mobile communication system.Cybersecurity Risks
Corresponding Strategies 
With the cybersecurity vision of “building the most valuable, safe, reliable, trustworthy telecom carrier in line with 
international standards ” as the point of departure, we implement cybersecurity policy and privacy policy from the 
start and fuse them into the routine operations.
To ensure the security of Chunghwa Telecom s “ICT systems” and “critical infrastructure”, we refer to the NIST 
Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) and follow domestic and foreign standards and regulations to establish a 
“Information Security and Personal Information Risk Management Framework”, to prevent potential risks and 
implement concrete, effective security protection and privacy protection measures.Protect
Identify
RespondDetect
Improve
Chunghwa Telecom has established “Cybersecurity and Privacy Protection Steering Committee ”. An SEVP-level officer 
is appointed by the Chairman as the CISO to convene “working meetings on cybersecurity ” and “work meetings on 
privacy protection ” on a regular basis. A dedicated cybersecurity management unit is created to streamline regulations 
and technological development of new businesses, coordinate overall cybersecurity policy, stipulate and amend 
guidelines, engage centralized cybersecurity monitoring and joint defense for ICT equipment security, oversee and manage operations of cybersecurity and privacy protection, report regularly to the Board on a regular basis, and ensure the fulfillment of the objective of “ zero tolerance ” for major cybersecurity and privacy incident.
The Risk Management Committee keeps track of the risk monitoring process of cybersecurity and personal information protection. Any material risks identified will be reported to the audit committee of the Board of Directors, or in severe cases, directly to the Board of Directors to reduce cybersecurity risks. In light of the major cybersecurity incidents domestically over the years, apart from its preemptive deployment of defense measures such as the ban on Network Neighborhood, security monitoring for Active Directory (AD), and blocking of APT attack via email, Chunghwa Telecom 
utilizes a smart cybersecurity monitoring platform that not only is capable of detecting incidents of breach or risks in 
peacetime, but also promptly backtracks impacts of external threats on the basis of intelligence. In 2019, there were no incidents of material risks arising from cybersecurity or personal information protection.
Opportunities and Actions 
For more information of “ Chunghwa Telecom Cybersecurity and Privacy Protection, ”please refer to the official websiteWith risk management at the core, Chunghwa Telecom evaluates its maturity regarding cybersecurity governance, amends the cybersecurity policy and directions in accordance with the results of external and internal risk assessments annually, improves cybersecurity and privacy protection management on a rolling basis, organizes 
awareness promotion for all employees and includes such in the performance evaluation of employees, and passes 
government inspection and third-party verification (ISO 27001, ISO 27011, BS 10012, CSASTAR Certification, etc.), so that our clients can rest assured that their personal information will be securely safeguarded. 5I
53 52
In addition to the pursuit of operational value and the growth of profit for 
the benefit of our stakeholders, we also allocate substantial resources for the creation of sustainable value. The approach to this is five-fold: capital investment, strategy formulation, action plan, regular follow-up and performance reviews. We take all the necessary steps to ensure that each investment input has a proper sustainability result.5Chapter
The Creation of 
Sustainable Value
The Digital Economy Motivator
The Creative Industry Pilot
The Happiness Value Protector
The Green Corporation Pioneer
The Social Value Guide56
586692
108CHT expects to achieve its goal of commercializing the 5G 
network by Q3, 2020 through in-house development of an 
IoT (Internet of Things) platform that integrates five major 
services— information security , big data , cloud computing, 
artificial intelligence (AI), and augmented reality (AR).
CHT is the first mobile network operator to receive  
ISO 45001 certification.
CHT is the only telecom company in Taiwan to have a labor union.
CHT is the first  telecom company to institute sustainable 
supply chain management:
●   Working with the Sustainable Alliance for Low-carbon 
Economy (SALE) to audit and issue sustainability labels 
●   Joining the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in an effort to 
establish a sustainable supply chain 
The first  telecom carrier that obtained both environment 
management certifications, “ISO 14067 and ISO 14046”
CHT proposed “ 5I SDGs ”—iHelping , iSharing , iLearning , 
iTechnology , iProtecting —Taiwan’s first sustainable initiative 
that corresponds with the UN’s Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs).06 Public Policy 
 Participation0 5 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities03 Material Topics 
 and Impact01 Coporate
 Overview02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy54 55
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
Capital Impact on Value Creation Resource Allocated to Sustain Value Creation
Financial• To ensure eligibility for licensing (e.g., the 5G bands) 
• Provides sufficient financial resources to support value creation 
• Effective execution of commercial activities 
• Generation and allocation of other forms of capital, such as distribution 
of shareholder equity, investments, and capital expenditure• Contribution to the government in the form of tax revenue  
• Supports the development of network infrastructure
• Improves the quality of telecom services
Human• Telecom knowledge and skills acquired by employees 
• Human capital represents one of our major operational costs• Introduction to compensation and incentive schemes to attract and retain talent
• Encourage high value-adding services and innovations
• Talent training and development programs
Intellectual• Licensing, laboratory and R&D expenses, and the acquisition and 
development of industry technologies 
• Investment to maintain the brand• Ongoing investment in R&D, construction, and services, and maintain service quality and customer satisfaction
• Investment in the R&D of new technologies and the setting of new protocols
Production• Allocate financial capital to develop and maintain infrastructure facilities 
• Operation of the Internet Data Center (IDC) and the installation of wireless facilities and development of software and applications• Ongoing new construction, maintenance, and operation of network equipment
• Procurement control and the acquisition of more cost/energy efficient network equipment
• Consolidation of idle space and the recycling and disposal of obsolete equipment
Social• Regular contact with the relevant authorities to ensure the conformance and legitimacy of the operations and competition 
• Positive feedback from consumers and the general public helps build credibility of the Chunghwa Telecom brand, and minimizes financial outlay• Engage with stakeholders actively to make them better understand of the Company operations
• Engage in social activities to exert influence through core activities to minimize the 
digital divide
Natural• Natural capital such as infrastructure, raw materials, and energy sources are needed to allocate and take advantage of human capital 
• The use of energy-saving processes and solutions can effectively reduce the consumption of natural capital• Purchase products that are environmental and friendly to reduce consumption of natural resources and raise energy efficiency
• Use carbon management to minimize energy consumption and apply renewable 
energy solutions to a greater extent
• Focus on the development of renewable energy sources, by proprietary and 
commissioned Photovoltaic systems
56 57
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66               The Green Corporation Pioneer 92               The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
We have enhanced the current core business, and actively develop and research new 
products. It will bring new revenue through better and more innovative ICT products and services, becoming the leader in smart living and the agent of digital economy empowerment.
We have established the “Digital Convergence Business Department” (an UI team included), 
which is a core business unit that imports ISO standards of quality system, capable and mature integration models, project management as well as systematized R&D workflow.
• We have developed an IoT application platform using our own innovative technology 
• “Demonstration of startup results” of the CHT 5G Accelerator
• Facilitation in the organization of a 5G standards meeting (3GPP) in Taiwan
• MOUs signed with various strategic partners to realize the pre-commercialization 
objectives of 5G.
• Five previously separate pursuits have now been combined, including IoT, AI, Big 
Data, AR/VR and self-driving cars. S
AMStrategy
Management
Action
More details of innovation business cases on page 61~65
Short-term:   
The accumulation of R&D 
power and the launch of innovative products and servicesR
T
IResponse
Target
IndicatorThe Digital 
Economy 
Motivator
The SDGs CHT contributes to in this section：8,9,11
Mid-long term: 
• Commercialized 5G networks in Q3, 2020
• Launch of “RISE ON, TOGETHER 2021” 
Transformation Plan
• The client amount of MOD total exceeds 2.5 million 
• Relative revenue of IoT reaches NT$ 9.6 billion 
• Relative revenue of AI exceeds NT$ 3 billion
Embracing the 5G era, Chunghwa Telecom, MoEA 5G Technology  
Program Office, ITRI, and III established Taiwan 5G 
Alliance—CHT Pilot Team. With over 60 institutions and 
enterprises across sectors in the Alliance, its goals is to 
commercialize Taiwan’s 5G network by 2020, promoting end-to-end 5G industrial chains and 5G deployment locally for Taiwan to stay ahead.
A commercialized 5G network is expected to launch in Q3, 
2020. CHT serves as a leader in the innovative applications of AI, IoT, etc. The CHT Pilot Team extends lab experiments to field verification, as all walks of life can use this venue to develop new applications and opportunities. With a better 
synergy of the local industry’s hardware and telecom 
carriers’ software, more competitive solutions can be offered for transformation.To embrace the era of 5G commercialization in 2020, Chunghwa Telecom is “Always Ahead! ” 
 
In its own Telecom Training Institute Green Energy Smart Park, “5G Testing and Training Site ” is created, and the “5G communication 
experimental network ” and the independent 
developed “5G Smart Edge Data Center ” have 
established to build a wireless environment with broad bandwidth and low latency, and offer 
an open 5G testing and training site with the 
objective of “experience, innovative partnership and training. ”CHT 5G Testing  
and Training Site
Chunghwa Telecom cordially welcomes 
visits and collaboration from industries, 
the government, academia and research  
communities to experience the future  
scenes of smart technology while “develop innovative applications of 5G and accel
-
erate cultivation of professional talent in  
5G” together, in an attempt to drive the 
R&D energy of partners in the domes -
tic ecosystem and to become “Leader in Smart Living ” and “Agent of Digital 
 
Economy Empowerment ” that steers the 
development of 5G in the days to come. CHT
CHTGRI  2,224  patents accumulated
 NT$ 3.9 billion of Investment in R&D
 More than 1,500  R&D employees58 59
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
The Creative
Industry 
Pilot
CHT s innovative strategies to cope with this situation 
include enhancing the current core business, active 
research into new product development, and generate 
more revenue from new and innovative ICT products 
and services. Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories (CHT-TL) is a designated R&D institute that has been established for research into new innovative services, 
core technology, and visionary applications. We strive 
to explore convenient and useful services from the consumers  perspective. Solutions are formulated 
through intricate coordination; the purpose is to find ways to “simplify tasks for consumers, and let CHT 
deal with the complexity.”The SDGs CHT contributes to in this section:  8 , 9 , 11
• There are more than 1,495 employees (nearly 
6.88% of total) with 97.46% being R&D personnel.
• The funding for R&D totaled NT$ 3.9 billion, 
which was 1.9% of the consolidated operating 
revenue. 
• The laboratories secured 176 new product/ 
technical patents (156 domestic and 20 overseas)  
to a total of 2,224 (2,018 domestic and 206 overseas). 1,162 of the patents are currently in 
force (1,063 domestic and 99 overseas). Overview of Chunghwa 
Telecom Laboratories in 2019"Product Machine AR Collaboration" was selected as the excellent team in the 2019 Communication 
Competition, which is novel and the only machine tool AR collaboration productIndustrial Development Bureau, Ministry of Economic Affairs （MOEAIDB）
AI Grand Challenge
•  First place: Product AI image annotation helper
•  Masterpiece Award: Personal AI DJ for music magic lamp, smart speakerTelecommunication Laboratories, Chunghwa TelecomThe Testing Center of Telecommunication Laboratories, Chunghwa Telecom obtained the mark of  
"Accredited testing laboratories in Internet of Things Security"Taiwan Association of Information and Communication Standards (TAICS)
TCCDA-CSEA— "Product Huabao Text Customer Service Robot" won the Best Intelligent Customer 
Service System Application Award for Outstanding Customer ServiceTaiwan Contact Center Development Association (TCCDA)
"Intelligent Photovoltaic Monitoring System" won the masterpiece in solar photovoltaic innovative 
application product design contestIndustrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI)
Four gold, three silver and three bronze medals awarded to patents participated in "Taiwan Innovation 
and Technology Expo"Taiwan External trade development council (TAITRA)Innovative R&D Results in 2019
The Telecom Laboratories 
Human Resources Structure
Number
Ratio
Number
RatioNumber
Ratio
Number
Ratio93
6.22%9
0.6%Doctor
1,004
67.16%308
20.6%Master26
1.74%15
1%Bachelor
15
1%25
1.68%OthersIn 2019, CHT Telecom Laboratories Testing Center (TLTC) 
obtained the single-mode fiber testing technology accreditation  
from Taiwan Accreditation Foundation and became the first 
qualified testing laboratory in Taiwan capable of testing of light loss in single-mode fibers (the attenuation uniformity, 
bending loss, etc.)
Fiber testing plays an essential role in the future 5G industrial  
chain. We shall continue to progress in the field of advanced 
optical communication, establish complete testing 
technologies, and offer well-rounded testing service to the 
optical communication industry locally.CHT-TL Accredited by TAF with Its  
“Single-mode Fiber Testing  
Laboratory, First in Taiwan”60 61
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
“Responding to the 5G Action Plan of Taiwan – Seminar on constructing the innovative 5G application development 
environment in Taiwan”, organized jointly by Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories (CHT-TL) and Photonics Industry & Technology Development Association (PIDA), investigated the cross-disciplinary innovative application 
development over 5G x optical communication x network communication x cloud x telecommunication. 
Mr. Kuo Feng Lin, SEVP of Chunghwa Telecom, stressed that the application of 5G in the vertical field is still 
in development; cross-disciplinary collaboration is key to the success; the co-operation of 4G with 5G in the future is expected, and that a high coverage of fiber network is a vital base for 5G to prevail. “No fiber, no 5G.” 
As 5G technologies and business models are still in development, an early investment for trials can gain one the 
opportunity of an early market entry.No Fiber, No 5G organized jointly by CHT-TL and PIDA Chunghwa Telecom expects that 5G will give rise to IoT applied technology in the next few years. New forms of services like AI, big data, drones, AR, VR, smart home, and smart long-term care will rise along with new industries, which shall drive the economic growths worldwide. Hence, we take the lead with technological innovations and 
develop our own IoT application platform that combines services of cybersecurity, big data, cloud, AI, and AR. As of 
2019, there are innovation users of over 400 SMEs already onboard. 
In terms of AI development, we recruited 241 elites to form the R&D team, of which 200 are data scientists, and 41 
AI specialists. In addition to the continuous improvement in 2019 of the five business areas, “smart security, smart 
cybersecurity, smart transportation, smart home, and emerging applications,” our 15 self-developed AI APIs have 
attained the commercialization level.
In digital convergence of film and television, upholding the service philosophy of providing a wide range of quality 
videos, MOD worked with Cyberon Corporation in 2019 and ushered in a new milestone for the AI speech technology in Taiwan, creating the smart voice control service available in both Mandarin and Taiwanese, first of its kind in Taiwan.
MOD promotes implementation of tier-based pricing and a reasonable profit-sharing model for operators while pays 
respect to consumers  freedom in choosing TV programs to watch, thus successfully changing the way people watch 
TV. Among the fierce competition of film and television industry, we plan to exploit the omnimedia channels with coordinated marketing and product strategies. In 2019, through eminent cultural and sports events like CPBL All-
Star Game, Asian Baseball Championship, BWF Chinese Taipei Open, and Golden Melody Awards, the number of users 
rocketed to 2 million above. Innovative ICT Products and Services Social Innovation
In response to the needs as Taiwan marches toward an aging society, Chunghwa Telecom works with local governments to promote eHealth care service to elevate the clinic service quality in local public health centers. Among which, with the support of Smart City Taiwan of IDB, Hualien County launched the eHealth primary health institutions 
and long-term care program. Networked, mobile technological tools had been developed to improve the efficiency of 
clinic service, health checkup, and vaccination of 13 public health centers while build all the public health centers in Hualien into eHealth Centers.eHealth – Community Healthcare Service
Chunghwa Telecom aims to explore more innovative 5G applications to enrich the lives of the general public and create novel living experiences. In 2019, it joined forces with 
the National Palace Museum to develop an all-new smart 
museum, first among the museums in Taiwan, and created an all-new digital, high-definition, on-site experience in of the 5G era. The 5G environment was created in Room 
210 at the Main Building of the National Palace Museum to 
foster a 5G experimental space that offers AR smart guided tour service for visitors to explore through space and time with the virtual and physical realities combined and gain insights to the stories beneath the precious cultural relics.AR Smart Guided Tour – Encounter of Culture and Technology  
at the National Palace Museum
Mr. Kuo Feng Lin, SEVP of Chunghwa Telecom, led the Taiwan 5G Alliance - CHT Pilot Team to the 2019 Mobile World 
Congress and exhibited the “5G Smart Edge Data Center” solutions developed by the CHT Telecom Laboratories at the Taiwan Pavilion. The solutions comprised applications such as “multi-view live streaming,”” Intelligent 
Operation Center,” and “smart agriculture.” Together with domestic ICT suppliers, we showcased Taiwan’s R&D 
energy and results in emerging technologies like 5G edge computing, network slicing, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), and big data analytics.2019 MWC
In response to the government s Long-term Care Plan 2.0, we constructed the telehealth care service via ICT 
to improve health quality and efficiency. Also, we worked with multiple local hospitals to launch CHT Personal Health Record (CHT PHR). Users can upload their measurement results through the client terminals over landline 
or Bluetooth, share their health status with friends and family on the other side, and form a community that cares 
for each other. Children can learn about the measurements of their parents in real-time via MOD platform or cellphone, or grant authorization to share the data with medical facilities for a more comprehensive diagnosis. eHealth – CHT PHR
中華電信領航隊62 63
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Environmental Innovation
Chunghwa Telecom has been utilizing its ICT and network technology prowess in recent years to expand the market 
of Internet of Things. Working with Eco Energy Corporation and through NB-IoT mobile communication technology, the innovative service of CHT IoT SMART PLATFORM is introduced and cloud energy IoT service is offered. The 
corporate clients can thus conduct monitoring of electricity quality, self-diagnosis, automatic warning, and energy-
saving bill management in real time remotely as well as ensure the viability and reliability of the backup electricity system, reduce impacts of corporate management risks, and acquire multiple benefits in energy saving, carbon reduction, and cost reduction.Smart Energy Application for Cloud Energy Storage IoT Service
We worked with Taiwan Fertilizer Co., Ltd. (Taifer) and launched “smart aquaculture temperature monitoring program”. Through introduction of innovative NB-IoT technology, we offered automated monitoring solution in Taifer Hualien Deep Ocean Water Production Park. The seawater quality and temperature are monitored 
automatically, so that the seaweed cultivated in the Park can grow strong. The mobile IoT automatically monitors 
the culture environment 24/7 and helps save costs in labor and water while facilitates a more stable output.Smart Aquaculture Monitoring
CHT has always encouraged creativity and innovation. Employees are encouraged to break new ground and turn their R&D creativity into real value, to drive industrial output and bring revenue to the Company. We adopted a strategy of internal and external cooperation to encourage and promote new startups in the ICT industry in Taiwan.From Creation and Innovation to StartupsFinancial Innovation 
In 2019, “NEXT BANK” composed by domestic players led by Chunghwa Telecom was approved to establish an 
internet-only bank that is expected to come online by 2020. Investment in internet-only bank is a vital element to seizing digital finance opportunity. “NEXT BANK” comprises various innovative enablers in financial innovation 
across sectors. It builds a whole-new financial innovation application platform that offers corporate clients FinTech 
related professional ICT services. Also, through participation in the establishment of internet-only bank, we aim to create a more convenient digital life for consumers.NEXT BANK for Digital LifeThemed with “Smart City and Creative Life” for the first time, Chunghwa Telecom organized an AIoT Hackathon event of two days and one night for AI creation, drawing 160 contestants from 21 universities that formed 40 teams with members coming from different universities. The spirit of teamwork was fully manifested in the event by these young 
students.
The application event, in addition to the focus on teamwork and creative thinking, stressed more on the practicability 
and level of completion of works. Meanwhile, it provided ample resources for each contestant to give fully play to their 
talents, so that their works would not merely ideal blueprints, but practical cases for the future to realize the vision of 
“Smart City and Creative Life” in Taiwan.AIoT Hackathon
On “CHT 5G Accelerator –Demo Day of Startups’ Results”, apart from the selection of the startup of the year, it also serves as the matchmaking platform for enterprises and startups that helps fulfill the purpose of fostering a 5G industrial ecosphere in Taiwan.
The Startups of the Year in 2019 were presented to TMYTEK, Pumpkin Studio, and WASAI Technology. The top 3 startup 
teams would join us to attend 4YFN at the 2020 MWC, obtain opportunities of business partnership and reinvestment matchmaking with Chunghwa Telecom and the other corporate members on the CHT 5G Pilot Team, and win prizes valued NT$1 million or above in total.
For the startup teams unable to secure the ticket to the 2020 MWC, we also compiled their brilliant works of creativity 
for the reference of the CHT 5G Pilot Team’s member enterprises and fully leveraged the role as a platform and a bridge to facilitate the rapid growth of the startups in Taiwan.“Demonstration of startup results” of CHT 5G Accelerator
64 65
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
With surging demands for mobile services from industries, the “M-IoT Innovation Group” was introduced for the first 
time in the 2019 IoT Smart Platform Competition. Meanwhile, to encourage innovative talents, prizes valued up to NT$1.8 million were offered. The Competition drew 151 teams in total. Through competition, we inspire top-notch 
innovative talents and explore IoT services with the potential for commercialization.
The arrival of 5G in 2020 further expedites the rapid development of IoT. The winning criteria set by the jury was 
“creative work with a high level of completion and commercial value”. In addition, Chunghwa Telecom offered the 
winning teams mentoring and introduction of industry-academia collaboration and application, so as to bestow 
more opportunities to bridge the outstanding works to industries. Moving forward, we shall continue to organize relevant events to inspire more creative talents to commit themselves in the development of IoT applications, while improving management efficiency via technology, creating new opportunities for industries, and guiding Taiwan 
into the global IoT market.
As the leader in the ICT sector, 
we proactively participate in various esports events and spare 
no effort in investment in the 
esports industry, Chunghwa 
 
Telecom has been the title sponsor of “Taiwan Legend 
Championship Series” 
for three 
consecutive years, creating a premium network environment 
for players and offering audience 
a prime watching experience.
In the duration of the 2019 Taiwan  
Legend Championship Series, we offered benefits such as fast 
track and exclusive seats for 
game watching on the scene, successfully attracting a crowd of 43,000 audience. Events 
were broadcast live on our MOD 
platform and Hami Video app in 
 
4K/HD, drawing over 600,000 hits and a 20% growth com
-
pared to that of 2018.IoT Smart Platform Competition
Taiwan Legend Championship Series, Powered by CHT
The “MOD Microfilm and Gold Film Creation Contest” with awards to a total of NT$ 4.9 million in 2019 is the largest microfilm contest in Taiwan both in terms of the prize amount and the scale, which has attracted brilliant minds in film production, home and abroad, and a total of 300 entries. 
Nearly 2,000 entries were cumulated over the 5-year course of the event, as the event has established a decent 
reputation and influence of its own. We created a dedicated section for “microfilm” on the MOD platform specifically and upload all the finalist works for our MOD customers to enjoy these exclusive contents, free of charge. A finalist film 
festival was especially thrown at Huashan Spot Theater. With huge screen of high quality, it screened 49 marvelous 
works of finalists’ in succession to showcase the creative energy of Taiwanese for more to see the original prowess of Taiwan in filmmaking.The MOD Microfilm Contest
66 67
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
•  “Corporate Code of Conduct” ob-
tained a declaration of conformity 
by an external third-party 
Mid-Term:
• All areas receive ISO 45001 certifi -
cation by 2021• Chunghwa Telecom is committed to providing employees with “assurance, ” 
including their work rights and freedom of association. The Company takes the 
initiative to care for the needs of employees, and implements communication 
channels to facilitate the exchange of opinions between the employer and 
employees
• Provide consumers with virtually and physically diverse, multilateral and high-
quality service channels
• Ensures all employees sign a formal “Employment Agreement, ” duly observe the 
Labor Standards Act and other applicable laws, and calls for labor-management meetings at regular intervals
• Accreditation of the SGS Qualicert service certification
• Comprehensive and robust personnel management
• The Company has specialized training facilities - Telecom Training Institute and Occupational Safety and Health Department in place
• Transparent and diverse means of communications and grievances
• Established the system of self-inspection, audit, and supervision for service quality
• Launch the personal information management and auditor certification systemS
AM
• The only Taiwanese carrier with an established union
•  Electromagnetic wave inspection service
• The first telecom carrier in Taiwan to receive ISO 45001 certificate
Short-Term:
• Fosters talents and allows all employees to share the results of the operations, in 2020, we recruit and retain talent with a 3% salary 
increase.
• Make personalized high-quality products 
and services available to all our customers
Basic salary offered by Chunghwa 
Telecom is 1.3 times the minimum  
wage in Taiwan.
Per Capita Training Hours: 44 hoursR
T
IThe SDGs CHT contributes to in this section: 3 , 8 , 9 , 10
•  
•  
•  •  
“Collective Agreement” employee coverage of 99%
Ensuring Employees’ Happiness
Protecting the Rights of Workers
Chunghwa Telecom treats employees as their most important business partners. To ensure the best protection for the work rights of 
the employees, Chunghwa Telecom signs an 
“Employment Contract ” with each employee 
and undertakes to notify them of any changes in terms of employment in compliance with the 
Labor Standards Act. Furthermore, CHT uses 
several different channels, including seminars and labor-management meetings, to maintain harmony and a mutually beneficial working relationship with employees.A Competitive Compensation System
We have a “Compensation Committee” in place to ensure that compensation for the best talent is competitive. In addition, the Company has a transparent system for sharing business 
performance with its employees. Compensation for executive 
management has been standardized and details are disclosed publicly in the annual reports. The Company offers equal compensation for all entry-level employees of the same 
grade. Those who possess relevant skills and work experience 
may have compensation evaluated based on educational background, career experience, expertise, and professional qualifications. Under no circumstances will compensation ever be determined by gender or racial differences.
1. Average Salary in the Telecom Industry: According to 
the “Monthly Wage and Productivity Report, December 2019” published by the Directorate General of Budget, 
Accounting, and Statistics.
2. Base Salary of CHT: The average salary level in 
December 2019. 2019 Base Salary 
in Taiwan
Average Salary 
in the Telecom IndustryNT$ 31,730
NT$ 72,000GRI GRI
GRI GRINo violation of GRI laws concer personal 
information, health, safety or product labeling
Base Salary
Average SalaryNT$ 23,100
NT$ 68,974The 
Happiness 
Value ProtectorStrategy
Management
Action
Response
Target
Indicator
Benefits Expense of Full-time 
Non-supervisory Employees
Item Unit 2018 2019 YoY
Full-time 
EmployeesPerson 21,981 21,473 -2.31%
Average 
SalaryNTD 
Thousand1,493 1,483 -0.67%
Median 
SalaryNTD 
Thousand1,479 1,466 -0.88%68 69
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Entry-level 
EmployeeExecutiveIntermediate 
ExecutiveSenior 
Executive 
and Higher
Level 0-10Level 11-16Level 17Level 18-22Human Resources Structure at CHT
In 2019, CHT has more than 20 thousand employees with an average age of more than 50.8 years old. There will 
be more than 5 thousand employees retiring over the next 5 years, and 50% of the employees will be eligible for retirement over the next 10 years. Current senior management is included in this retirement tide. To cope with this 
problem, CHT is actively cultivating new talents to ensure that knowledge is passed down, filling the manpower 
gap of new generations.
2,921
persons
3,167
personsUnder 30 Years Old
30-50 Years Old 
Above 50 Years OldUnder 30 Years Old
30-50 Years Old 
Above 50 Years OldUnder 30 Years Old
30-50 Years Old 
Above 50 Years Old
Ratio
Base Salary Ratio
Average Salary Ratio
Under 30 Years Old
30-50 Years Old 
Above 50 Years OldUnder 30 Years Old
30-50 Years Old 
Above 50 Years Old
Ratio
Base Salary Ratio
Average Salary RatioUnder 30 Years Old
30-50 Years Old 
Above 50 Years Old
Ratio
Base Salary Ratio
Average Salary RatioUnder 30 Years Old
30-50 Years Old 
Above 50 Years Old
Ratio
Base Salary Ratio
Average Salary Ratio
391 persons
497 persons
2 persons43.93 %
55.84 %
0.22 %890 persons
4.1% of total employees
    700  persons
78.65 %    190  persons
21.35 %1,251 persons
5.76 % of all employees
Note: New recruits ’ rate =
Number of new employees/ [(Number of people at the beginning + number of people at the end)/2]
上表皆為本國籍之全職人員21
59
940685
2,204
324
25
202800
2,303
641.68 %
4.72 %
75.14 %0.32 %
2.00 %
16.15 %Resignation 
of New Recruits
32 persons 
3.59 % of all new employees1. All employees are Taiwanese and mainly full-time. Due to the needs of industrial management, we hire 1  
contract-based employee. 
2. For all grades, basic salary is defined as the fixed salary (monthly). 
3. For all grades, average salary includes fixed salaries and variable portions (including the monthly salary, bonus, etc.) 
4. Levels of all grades: Basic 0-10; Executive 11-16; Intermediate Executive 17; Senior Executive 18-22. 
Notes: 1. New recruits ’ rate =Number of turnover employees/ [(Number 
of people at the beginning + number of people at the end)/2]
2. The turnover rate in 2017 and 2018 are 4.2% and 3.97%14 20 28 25All employees in this subsidiary are 
full-time employees with Taiwanese 
citizenship.2019 New Recruitments
Human Resource Structure of Honghwa International Subsidiary in 2019 2019 Employee Turnover ＋ －786
5,376
7,282
69.74%
1.02
1.010
189
1,742
82.17%
1.03
1.020
2
36
79.17%
0.970.9700
28
87.50%
1.04
1.07
158
2,470
3,204
30.26%
110
59
360
17.83%
1103
7
20.83%
1
100
4
12.50%
1
1Total Employees  
21,706 persons
6,265
persons
28.86%15,441  
persons
71.14%
Under 30 Years Old
30-50 Years Old
Above 50 Years Old786 158 83.26% 16.74%
5,567 2,532 68.74% 31.26%
9,088 3,575 71.77% 28.23%
32 17 488 263 Disabled 
Employee
Disabled 
EmployeeAboriginal 
Employee
Aboriginal 
EmployeeTotal 49 persons
Total 34 personsTotal 751 persons
Total 53 personsChunghwa Telecom understands that the industry competition we are facing now is not only the telecommunications 
industry, but the changing information and communication industry chain. In the future, the recruitment direction of talents will be based on the large-scale public recruitment method which focuses on various professional fields. We 
will adopt an external network approach to transform Chunghwa Telecoms talents into an important kinetic energy 
for the continuous improvement of the next stage.70 71
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Open Communication and Grievance Channels 
We have open communication channels in place to 
ensure that employees needs or suggestions are heard. Any violation or misconduct in the workplace 
can be reported to the relevant department using the 
channels provided. There were 25 complaints in 2019, including behavior as disrespect of the CHT system, principles, administrative management, and violation 
of the employee code of conduct or other misconduct. 
There were no human rights related cases in 2019.
We hold regular labor-management meetings to 
maintain contact between employees and the 
employer. There are 9 representatives from each 
side, employer and employees. The chair is held by each side in turn. The Chairman and President of Chunghwa Telecom engage regularly with the 
Chairman of the Union, Directors, and Supervisors 
in meetings, in person and by telephone. The Chairman of the Chunghwa Telecom Workers Union is entitled to participate in disciplinary review meetings, performance appraisals, and business 
report meetings to ensure that workers are kept up 
to date on Company news. In 2019, the Company held 6 nationwide labor-management meetings and 1 extraordinary meeting during which employees 
and the employer were able to reach consensus on 
many issues. Meetings for the discussion of particular matters can be convened, or if any change to work conditions is necessary.Gender Equality and Diversity
Chunghwa Telecom places great value on human rights and gender equality. In 2019, female staff accounted for 28.86% of the total, and 27.16% of the managers were women. To conform to the essence of the Gender Equality in the Employment Act, the Company has outlined its sexual harassment prevention policy and established a “Complaint 
Investigation Committee ” that specializes in the handling of employee complaints about work-related discrimination 
and improper behavior. The investigation committee has 5 members, 3 of whom are female. Our effective control has 
resulted in no incident of discrimination being reported in 2019.
CHT has done more than comply with the quota required by Article 38 of the Persons with Disabilities Rights 
Protection Act and have hired more than the required number. In 2019, the number of persons with disabilities hired 
was 3.74 times of the statutory quota. (quota: 201; actual hire: 751. Where a department or institution employs a seriously disabled person in accordance with the act, the disabled person shall be calculated as two.) We had 49 aboriginal employees on board in 2019. We fully respect their cultures and no violation of work or human rights was reported during the year.
The Only Telecom Carrier in Taiwan with a Union
Chunghwa Telecom is the only telecom carrier in Taiwan with a union established. We have signed a collective bargaining agreement with them which covers an extensive range of issues from redundancy, reward, discipline, promotion to health and safety. This initiative not only complies with local laws and international human rights 
conventions, but is also a show of our commitment to the protection of employee interests. In addition to the union 
established by Chunghwa Telecom, employees have also assembled 14 other unions under the organization. In 2019, 99% of employees were union members. A labor director is appointed to sit on the Board of Directors for a workers representative, through whom workers can more freely express opinions.
Notes: Chunghwa Telecom complies with Article 16 of the group agreement about transfers. If there is a need to 
transfer a union member due to changes in the organization such as establishment, alteration, merger, and/or closure of a department, the Company will do so only if necessary and will respect the wishes of the member. In addition, all transfers must comply with the “Five Principles ” of the Labor Standards Act.
• CHT intranet portal: http://eip.cht.com.tw
• Accountable department: Human Resource Division,  
Head Office (Room 503, No. 21-3, Section 1, Xinyi Road,  
Taipei City 100) 
• Hotline:  0800-080998 
• Fax: (02) 2357-0007 
• Email:  chthr@cht.com.tw The Employee 
Grievance Channels
72 73
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Focusing on Employee Training and Development
Our fundamental business focus is “core competitiveness, 
professionalism, efficiency, and service ” and we seek to 
develop innovative talent through a combination of internal 
and external training. 
We have a comprehensive training system to assist 
employee development in all dimensions. The system starts with the incorporation of “needs analysis ” and “in-depth 
planning ” and is followed by performance assessment and 
review after the program ends. This systematic approach enhances professional skill and work efficiency, and helps the Company improve its coordination of human resources.
The Chunghwa Telecom Training Institute has devised human resource development strategies based on business focus and talent requirements between 2017 and 2019.Human Resource Development Strategies
Digital Classroom
Chunghwa Telecom has introduced an online learning social network (the Digital Classroom) with an e-Learning approach quite unlike that 
of conventional classroom teaching. In this 
new learning social network where users may share and transfer knowledge at a lower cost, and with a far better yield of good results. The 
broadband installation college, for example, 
is a platform where information such as technical documents, cases, video tutorials, and technical discussions can be exchanged and learned.
Online Broadcast
Online broadcasts can be used to teach topics related to specific work. They are delivered over the internal UC platform, and 
offer employees a fast and convenient way 
to gain knowledge and observe new trends. Online broadcasts transmit the experiences of experts to all employees without limit and 
boost business growth. The topics in 2019 
included core business, ICT extended business, business in the new field and new knowledge of management and health care. There were 115 classes with 11,021 participants.Results
1. Provide International public cloud  
certification training
• In line with the corporate cloud strategy, training and 
certification mentoring for AWS, Azure, and GCP certificates 
were organized in 2019 to facilitate different institutes to acquire a total of 194 international public cloud certificates.
2. Improve management cap
• “Manager management seminar ” was organized to 
effectively resolve management issues and promote business development and profit and revenue growths. Quality of communication was enhanced in the seminar to promptly respond to clients pain points and accurately 
promote the focused businesses of Chunghwa Telecom. A 
total of 171 senior managers participated in 2019.
3. New business potentials
• Courses on AI certification and AIoT to strengthen the core 
competitiveness in AIoT were organized three times in 
2018-2019 and cultivated 92 individuals.
• 46 important professional seminars were organized with 
3,444 participants, including seminars respectively on 5G 
wireless technology, IoT development trend and service application, and big data application, etc. Courses of photovoltaic technical training series, business promotion, planning and design, construction and maintenance 
manpower are totaling 30 classes and 833 individuals.Alignment of training 
and business 
development Alignment of 
training targets 
and courses Mobilization of
digital learningGovernment-industry-
university-institute 
platformInnovation 
and Benefits
Chunghwa Telecom will encounter a wave of senior management retirements. Therefore, in response to business 
expansion and the rapid development of emerging technologies, CHT is actively recruiting new employees—we plan to hire 1,600 new recruits in 2019. The recruited talents are 1,025 individuals with a 64% of achievement rate. The 
recruitment objective for 2020 is 1,800 talents. The following measures have been developed as a response to reduce 
disruption in the transfer of knowledge:
• Recruiting professional talent  in ICT, AIoT, 5G application, technology innovation, and other new business 
opportunities. 
• The nurturing of the next-generation talent: The Company introduces new talent-training programs on a yearly 
basis. It provides employees with professional and diverse training options, and certifies the development of skill. 
• Emerging businesses:  new ICT technologies are being infused with knowledge from other fields. The Company will 
focus on training professionals who can adapt and apply their knowledge across several different fields of expertise such as cloud computing, big data, and product packaging to actual practices. Recruitment and Development of the New-Generation TalentsDedicated Training Units
Chunghwa Telecom has founded the “Telecom Training Institute ” that specializes in training technical as well as 
managerial talent in the telecom field to gain more core competitive advantages. A “Talent Development Team ” has also 
been established, with the President as convener, to conduct regular reviews of the planning and outcome of training. 
This is important to ensure that the training outcome is closely aligned with the operational policy to achieve a “seamless 
combination of training and practice. ”
Diverse Learning Channels
To meet the needs of the organization, and the personal interest and even the personality traits of employees, the Telecom Training Institute provides a diversity of learning channels. These help employees develop new in-depth professional ability as well as a renewal of their management skills to bring about growth and proper career 
development. Employees can attend training at the Telecommunication Training Institute during regular hours, in the 
evening or on holidays. The institute can also dispatch tutors to relevant business units for organized training sessions. The institute offers 8 learning channels: class teaching, distance education, digital learning, mobilization digital learning, direct-broadcast courses, external programs, on-site tutoring, and the digital library.
New Employee Orientation
To provide new recruits with a general understanding of company vision, values and culture and help them adapt to the new criterions and work environment, the “New Recruit Counseling Guidelines for Chunghwa Telecom and Subordinate Institutions” was introduced in 2014 as well as a counselor system and e-Learning audio courses to accelerate the new 
employees blended into new work.74 75
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Fair Evaluation
Chunghwa Telecom now applies “Employees Performance Evaluation Guidelines ” which are used in the appraisal 
of employee performance to develop the corporate culture where employees, customers, shareholders, and the 
Company will all be winners. Supervision will be provided for underperforming employees who will be guided until 
the appropriate improvement has been made and they are back on track. 
CHT conducts performance appraisal at two levels: general staffs and senior managers. Performance appraisal 
involves a series of face-to-face discussions between employees and line managers at the beginning of a year to set personal goals, and also at mid-year and years end to evaluate the degree of employee contribution to the Company. 
Performance bonuses and employee remuneration are tied to individual performance.
In addition to linking employees  salary bonus to their annual performance, CHT has established a reward of senior 
employees, which is payable on a one-year deferred basis and apply to all employees, provided that the employee 
has a certain standard of continuous service and recent performance appraisal results.
The Happiness at Work Survey
Since 2011, we have been engaging outside agencies to carry out annual “Chunghwa Telecom Happiness at Work Surveys ” on an anonymous basis. This helps us to understand how employees feel about their work and their working 
status, and are used as a reference for the improvement of management. The survey topics include individual 
opinions about the working environment, welfare and corporate transformation. By listening to the opinions of the 
employee, we get to understand their feelings and expectations. 
The 2019 “Happiness at Work” survey is in a hundred-mark system. In total, 4,641 questionnaires were returned 
(21.9% response rate), 4,533 of which were determined to be valid (97.67%). The “Happiness at Work ” averaged 83.63, 
and “Employee Engagement ” 91.25. We will continue these surveys and respond to employee opinions.Nurturing of Professional Talents
Chunghwa Telecom is dedicated to providing employees with a diverse learning environment. In 2019, Chunghwa 
Telecom training expenses exceeded NT$ 497 million and employee training sessions totaled 960 thousand hours. We encourage employees to commit themselves to long-term learning and we offer education subsidies as much as NT$ 
30,000 per semester. Subsidies were given to 381 employees in 2019 and the Company compensation amounted to 
NT$ 5.173 million.Health and Safety Management
Chunghwa Telecom was the first telecom service provider in Taiwan to adopt the OHSAS 18000 Occupational Health and Safety Management System.
In response to the renaming of and migration from OHSAS 18000 to ISO 45001, as of the end of 2019, a total of 15 
branches completed the certification of ISO 45001. It is scheduled to complete the migration to ISO 45001 certification 
of the 27 branches that are liable to establish an occupational health and safety management system throughout the branches by 2021.
In addition to identifying hazards and assessing the risks associated with telecom operations, the Company has 
also applied restrictions and enhanced risk control for high-risk tasks, while taking effective precautions to reduce 
occupational hazards. In addition to complying with safety and health regulations, the Company has also been active 
in the improvement of the current work environment and takes regular action with regard to safety and health facilities and measures. 
We take part in all government initiatives and actively promote a healthy workplace. 21 divisions within the Company 
have received awards under the “National Workplace Safety and Health Campaign ” organized by the Health Promotion 
Administration, Ministry of Health and Welfare.
2017 2018 2019
Total Training Expense (NT$ thousand) 514,082 502,370 497,901
Per Capita Training (NT$) 22,889 22,707 22,938
Total Training Hours 974,712 908,316 961,234
Per Capita Training Hours 43 41 44Follow the Safety and Health Regulations  
and Enforce Self-Management
Implement Hazard Identification  
and Enforce Risk Control
Strengthen both Mental  
and Physical Health Services
Encourage Participation through Open Communication  
and Consultation
Continue the Improvement of Equipment  
and Create a Quality Work Place
Conduct Safety Training Programs  
to Raise Safety Awareness76 77
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
In 2019, the Sports Administration of the Ministry of Education cooperate withＧlobal Views Monthly to organize 
National Fitness Program, 177 employees from CHT Xinyi Park signed up to learn more about fitness. The program included body measurements (height, weight, waist line, hip line, muscle mass, body fat, protein/mineral 
levels, and degree of obesity), muscle strength training (grips), flexibility training (forward flexion exercise), and 
cardiorespiratory fitness (knee-ups), designed to help employees learn more about their health and absorb new knowledge about sports.National Fitness ProgramHealth Promotions for Senior Employees 
• Health checkups: The Company provided checkup services specifically targeted at senior employees,  
including carotid duplex and echocardiography for the risk of ischemic stroke, coronary artery narrowing  
and incomplete heart valve closure, as well as fundus photography for checking macular degeneration, retinal vessels and glaucoma. 
• Health promotion lectures: A health manager was invited to talk on “osteoporosis” for physical health 
maintenance. The Company also invited a dietitian from Chi-Hsin Health Clinic to talk about “eating correctly to prevent cardiovascular diseases,” and “maintain your bone and muscle – the elegant figure for middle-aged individuals,” emphasizing the importance of health planning towards the maintenance of bodily functions. 
• Others: As a countermeasure to influenza outbreaks, Chunghwa Telecom subsidized influenza vaccination  
for 1,821 employees. Reducing Occupational Hazards
The Chunghwa Telecom “Work Accident 
Guidelines ” contain detailed procedures for 
assessing occupational illness. Employees 
suspected of having become ill as a result 
of their occupation are assisted with an application for verification at the local municipal/county/city authority, in accordance 
with the “Protecting Workers from Occupational 
Accidents Act. ” We manage risks at the source, 
by making sure that construction risks are under 
control from the early design stages of a project. The line construction management system has 
been amended with respect to highlighting 
high-risk operations as well as risk assessment information to ensure operators are able to identify potential risk in advance.
All high-risk operations are subject to approval 
by the ICT. Workers are also required to take site pictures with handheld devices and upload them to the monitoring system so that precautionary measures can be identified and taken to prevent 
such accidents as falls, oxygen deprivation, etc. To promote employee awareness and safety and health skills, we organized 
132 training sessions in 2019 and there were 7,597 enrollments. Among which, the enrollment for first aider training is 615 with a total of 5,745 hours, and that for AED training of Taipei City is 838 with a total of 1,676 hours.
The Company encountered 19 cases of occupational hazard in 2019 (incidents occurred on the way to and from work not 
included), 10 in traffic accidents, 3 trips, 2 falls, 2 collisions, 1 clamp, and 1 struck by falling objects. To raise employee awareness of traffic safety and reduce the occurrence of traffic accidents, Telecom Training Institute is tasked with the preparation of e-learning materials concerning traffic safety for employees to learn and take tests online. Employees are 
constantly being reminded at the Occupational Safety and Health Committee meetings, work safety meetings, and training 
sessions to exercise greater attention to personal safety and safe driving. Throughout 2019, a total of 4 major occupational accidents occurred to contractors of Chunghwa Telecom, of which 3 cases were falling and 1 case electrification, leading to a total of 4 individuals injured.
Critical Issue – COVID-19 Pandemic
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic in the early 2020, an epidemic prevention and response command center was established with the Chairman & CEO as the commander, and external supporting response units and internal epidemic prevention response units were created thereunder. Different levels were laid out with corresponding 
epidemic prevention measures in accordance with the pandemic s development. T o ensure a continual provision 
of services, all branches stipulated operation plans to maintain services to clients, network system operation continuity plans, and information system operation continuity plans, and other plans for epidemic response. 
Epidemic Prevention Measures
• The Occupational Safety and Health Department created materials regarding the latest updates of the epidemic, 
travel advisories, and epidemic prevention promotion following the epidemic development, which are distributed 
across the enterprise via multiple channels, including, email, MMS, and announcement on EIP .
Epidemic Prevention Subsidy
• Employees returning from abroad out of the epidemic prevention needs (except for employees traveling to areas 
that have been declared as travel advisory level 3) are granted with epidemic prevention leave in the duration of 
home quarantine. As of the end of April 2020, the number of employees granted with epidemic prevention leave for home quarantine is 52, totaled 4,160 hours.
• In compliance with the governments necessary measures for COVID-19 response, which postponed the opening 
of senior high schools or below, in the event of any employee with the need of caring for school children at age 
12 or below, the employee or the spouse may apply for “epidemic prevention childcare leave ” in the duration of 
11th to 24th of February. The leave is available without pay and would not affect the full attendance and bonus thereof, nor did it count as personal leave/sick leave thereof. The number of employees applied for such leave is 123 with a total of 3,510 leave hours.Since its establishment, CHT has always put great emphasis on occupational safety. We implement corporate level health & safety by providing adequate training, instituting control measures, performing internal audits, and conducting 
on-site inspections, fully implanting corporates occupational health and safety 
management. In 2018, CHTs mobile business group receive OHSAS 18001 and TOSHMS certifications, and also receive the ISO 45001 occupational health and safety certification, being the first cellular service provider in Taiwan to obtain 
international certification!The First Telecom Carrier in Taiwan 
to Receive ISO 45001 CertificationThe Dedicated Occupational Health and Safety Management Unit 
There is “Labor Safety and Health Committee ” in institutions at all levels in CHT, the average proportion of labor 
representatives is 35.64%. Meetings are held quarterly to deliberate, coordinate and make suggestions on labor safety 
and health issues. There is also “Labor Safety and Health Department ”, which is responsible for the planning and 
implementation of labor safety and health matters. 
The head office s Labor Safety and Health Committee has 29 members, 10 members are from the labor union, 
accounting for 34%. 4 meetings were held in 2019 and 8 proposals were presented by the labor representatives, 
one were related to the improvement of health and safety facilities, three to the refinement of safety and health 
management, and four was related to employee benefits. All of the above are solved.
Full-Time Physicians and Nurses 
to Improve Employee’s Health Management
To better provide immediate medical assistance and attend to worker health, we engaged 23 full-time nurses and 
contracted 22 physicians in 2019 for this specific purpose. They were assigned to locations at Xinyi, Aiguo, the Daan Industrial Park, New Taipei City, Taoyuan, Hsinchu, Miaoli, Central Taiwan, Chiayi, Tainan, Kaohsiung and Pingtung. 
The Company has deployed 6 i-med Systems at local customer centers for employees involved in high-risk activities. 
Blood pressure is measured and employees are given careful health checks before they engage in any high-risk work. This reduces the risk of accidents in high-risk situations.
78 79
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Item 2019 Contributions
Health 
Examination 
of Employees 
and 
Dependents• The Company offers much better care than required by law and employees are given the choice 
of various health checkup packages. A total of 20,962 (99.02%) employees had checkups in 2019.
• Family members are also entitled to checkups at the same rate, and a total of 4,150 persons participated in 2019.
Free 
Influenza 
Vaccination• Free influenza vaccination is available for all employees who fit the requirements for vaccination at public expense. Registration can be done online and 1,711 employees were vaccinated.
Employee 
Assistance 
Program 
(EAP)• CHT was one of the largest corporations in Taiwan to start promoting the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) since 2007.
• The EAP carries out 5 consultation sessions each year, in which outside experts are contracted to help employees resolve their legal, medical, family, workplace, and stress problems.
• Case managers made 25 visits and completed 375 service sessions in 2019. 
Employee 
Health 
Promotion• A total of 9,583 employees participated in 149 health seminars. 79 employees participated 2 sports competitions, and 8,607 employees attended 79 educational trips. Health examinations were given 
to 1,510 employees in 16 sessions and 18,437 employees participated in 258 large-scale events. 
• The Company published two health-related articles each month about the concept of disease 
prevention.
Employee 
Cafeteria• Our employee cafeteria offers a diverse range of nutritionally balanced meals to choose from. 
• All food suppliers are subjected to rigorous review to ensure the safety of food served to our employees. Item 2019 Contributions
Employee 
Health 
Service• Provide employees health consultation via online or phone appointment. Physicians visited the 
plants 35 times a month. Sessions were for 3 hours and each patient was allocated 30 minutes.
• Healthcare personnel use the “Employee Health Management System ” for the analysis and 
evaluation of health records. Where necessary, extra consultations can be arranged between 
the physicians and the employees for proper guidance and healthcare. 
 
Healthy 
Workplace• The noise level, lighting, temperature, humidity and air quality of our offices is tested regularly. 
The offices are also cleaned and maintained on a regular basis to ensure workers have a comfortable working environment. 
• Furthermore, all offices feature ergonomic chairs, natural ventilation, indoor plants and other 
elements of a healthy work environment. 
Flexible 
Working 
Hours• Chunghwa Telecom provides two flexible working hour sessions in the morning and afternoon: 
8:00~9:00 and 17:00~18:00. 
Epidemic 
Prevention 
Leave• During the 2020 COVID-19 epidemic prevention period, 52 employees granted with epidemic 
prevention leave for home quarantine, totaled 4,160 hours.
• The “epidemic prevention childcare leave” is available without pay and would not affect the full 
attendance and bonus, nor did it count as personal leave/sick leave . 123 employees applied for such leave with a total of 3,510 leave hours.
Balancing 
Work and 
Life• Chunghwa Telecom has 30 hostels that provide travel accommodation. An annual travel subsidy 
of NT$ 8,000 encourages employees to achieve a balance between work and life.As part of our effort to mobilize management, the “eSafe Wizard ” app allows employees and contractors to report 
safety violations, apply for operation permits, and acquire knowledge of occupational safety and health. The app also allows us to remotely perform spot checks on safety compliance, moving the entire management process onto 
the cloud. It is completely paperless, instantaneous, and highly effective. The app is currently promoted across 
all institutions of Chunghwa Telecom, while the technology is shared to other domestic enterprises as a gesture of goodwill in exercising our corporate social responsibility.
In 2019, with the “eSafe Wizard ” app, combined with the mobile management via cloud technology, we achieved 
100% in required permit application and hazard notification for operations such as hot work, work aloft, 
excavation, power and fire protection interruption, etc.The “eSafe Wizard” App
2017 2018 2019
Injury Rate (IR) 0.12 0.16 0.13 0.13 0.25 0.16 0.13 0.05 0.18
Occupational 
Disease Rate (ODR)0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Loss Day Rate (LDR) 40.41 3.31 29.86 80.27 7.9 59.64 31.45 2.32 33.77
Absence Rate (AR) 0.30 0.70 0.41 0.37 0.79 0.49 0.31 0.75 0.44
1. Injury Rate (IR) = (Total number of injuries/Number of hours worked by all employees) x 200,000
2. Occupational Diseases Rate (ODR) = (Number of occupational diseases/Total work hours) x 200,000
3. Lost Day Rate (LDR) = (Total loss of work days/Total work hours) x 200,000
4. Absentee Rate (AR)  = (Total number of absent days/Total number of man-days) x 100%
5. Days absent: paid and unpaid personal leave and sick or extended sick leave, excluding official leave or leave due 
to workplace injuries.
6. Total working hours: number of employees across branches × working days × 8 hours – leave hours + overtime hours
7. Including traffic accidents during commute.A Safe and Healthy Workplace
CHT considers its employees health to be a valuable company asset. Providing a safe and healthy workplace is a basic 
requirement to our employees. Apart from a wide range of benefits, including health checkup, keynote speeches, and promotional activities, we also commit ourselves in the promotion of sports in workplace and in the support to sports 
industry. In 2019, we were recognized by the 4th Exercise Enterprise Certification and by the first prize of the 1st “CHR 
Awards ” of Common Health Magazine. In 2019, we spent NT$ 80,313 thousand on employee health care.
Thirty-minute medical consultation with 
a physician (30 minutes / per person)On-site visits 
by  physiciansconsultation 
with a nurse
2,792 420 6,305total80 81
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Building a Happy Business Better Maternity Benefits than the Legal Requisites
We have been implementing an unpaid childcare leave system since 2006 to help employees juggle their attention 
between work and family. Chunghwa Telecom is required, under the Employment Insurance Act, to pay a six months maternity allowance to employees who give birth. Female employees who have taken this leave are further entitled, 
under company policy, to receive an additional monthly allowance of half the sum assured under the Labor Insurance 
Scheme during child-care leave, for a period up to two years. Employees of Chunghwa Telecom are also entitled to other privileges such as family care leave, paternity leave, menstrual leave, and a nursery room service, as well as epidemic prevention childcare leave pursuant to the governments epidemic prevention policy. In 2019, 88 employees applied for 
unpaid child-care leave; 129 employees applied for child-care leave allowances. NT$ 17,069 thousand was paid out as 
child-care leave allowances, an increase of NT$ 2,085 thousand over 2018.
Year Item Male Female Total
2019The Number Qualified for UPL for Raising 
Children 2019 (A)887 414  1,301 
Number of Applications for UPL 2019 (B) 14 74 88
Application Rate for UPL (B/A) 2% 18% 7%
Number of Expected Reinstatement 2019 (C) 17 56 73
Number of Applications for Reinstatement 2019 (D) 17 65 82
Reinstatement 2019 (D/C) 100% 116% 112%
2018Number of Reinstatement 2018 (E) 22 52 74 
One Year Retention after Reinstatement 2018 (F) 20 50 70
Retention Rate 2018 (F/E) 91% 96% 95%
1.  The number of employees entitled to apply for a parental leave of absence in 2019 (A): calculated as employees who had 
applied for maternity leave and parental leave in 2017-2019.
2.  The number of expected reinstatements 2019 (C): The number of employees who applied from 2017 to 2019 and should be 
reinstated in 2019.
3.  The number of actual reinstatements 2019 (D): The number of employees who applied from 2017 to 2019 and were 
reinstated in 2019.
4.  Reinstatement rate: (actual number of reinstated employees that year/number of employees who should have been 
reinstated that year) × 100%
5.  Retention rate: (the number who continued working after reinstatement/reinstated number for the previous year) × 100%CHT regard employees as important assets. We offer a commitment to “Peace of mind ” to our employees, and refrain 
from making layoffs and salary reductions. 
• The Labor Standards Act: The Company makes monthly pension contributions of up to 15% of an employees' 
monthly salary to the pension fund. This fund is held under the auspices of the Labor Pension Supervisory Committee. The current balance of the pension fund account is 39.6 billion.
• The Labor Pension Act: The Company makes monthly contributions of no less than 6% of an employees monthly salary. These contributions are deposited in the employees pension account held by the Bureau of Labor Insurance of the Ministry of Labor, in accordance with the Contribution Rate Sheet approved by the Executive 
Yuan. 
Note: Monthly pension contributions were made in accordance with the “Monthly Contribution Wages Classification 
Scheme ” published by the Ministry of Labor, subject to biannual adjustments.Item Activities and DescriptionNumber of 
Participant / 
BeneficiariesContribution / 
Supplement
Maternity 
Allowance 
(Company 
Issued)We offer a 6-month maternity allowance in compliance 
with the Employment Insurance Act. CHT also offers additional monthly allowances totaling half the sum 
assured under the Labor Insurance Scheme.129 personsNT$ 17,069 
Thousand
Childcare 
Allowance 
(Company 
Issued)Employees with children aged 0-6 years old will 
automatically receive a childcare allowance of NT$ 5,000 per year.3,475 personsNT$ 14,432 
Thousand
Sports 
ActivityRegional activities include 98 road running events, 164 hiking activities, 116 ball sports activities and 1,648 other activities (e.g. stair-climbing, health exercise, strolling, 
and fun competitions). 67 thousand 
personsNT$ 11,691 
Thousand
ESOTImprovement of employee welfare, enhancement of 
employee coherence, sharing company achievements and the establishment of an employee stock 
ownership committee to guarantee the quality of life 
after retirement or resignation. About 18 
thousand 
personsNT$ 2.3 Thousand/  
month per 
person
Dependent 
Education 
SubsidyTwice a year (two semesters). 25,224 personsNT$ 145,400 
Thousand
Wedding 
SubsidyA wedding subsidy is available for employees who are to be lawfully married. 224 personsNT$ 560 
Thousand 
Childbirth 
SubsidyEmployees or their spouses are eligible for a childbirth subsidy. 381 personsNT$ 953 
Thousand
Funeral 
SubsidyA funeral subsidy is available in the event of the death of a parent, foster parent, step-parent, the spouse or a child of an employee.832 personsNT$ 4,160 
Thousand 
Recreation 
and Sports 
SpaceIncludes an integrated stadium, swimming pool, tennis, badminton, basketball, and table tennis courts, multi-functional event space, karaoke room, and employee 
dormitories.Total 13,103 square meters
Note: Welfare is provided for employees of Chunghwa Telecom, but not for those of subsidiaries.
To help employees adapt to life after retirement, the Telecom 
Training Institute organized a series of “Retiree Adaptation Courses. ”  
13 sessions were held in 2019 for audiences totaling 636. Furthermore, 
a donation of NT$ 4.5 million was made to the “Chunghwa Telecom 
Retirees Association ” for various activities, and NT$ 1.5 million for the 
organization of travel events. A further NT$ 300,000 was donated for a 
Chinese New Year banquet held for volunteers. 
To facilitate the transfer of knowledge and experience, we have established a set of “Consultant Recruitment Guidelines ” and retired
 employees 
engage in our endeavors to maintain continuous growth. Consultants can have a paid or honorary role. Executive vice presidents and above, and 
heads of first-grade institutions, may be hired by Chunghwa Telecom as 
paid consultants after retirement. Paid consultants shall serve a term of no more than one year, and assume honorary roles from the day after the one-year period has expired.Retirement Benefits
Employee requests for retirement are processed in accordance with the “ Chunghwa Telecom Employee Retirement 
Pension and Separation Guidelines, ” the “ Labor Standards Act, ” and the “ Labor Pensions Act. ” 
奠年份 項目 男 女 合計82 83
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Subjects of the 
Value ChainLocation / 
AmountEvaluation 
MechanismEvaluation 
PercentagePercentage 
at RiskDescription / 
Boosting Mechanism
CHT owned 
institutes at 
1 to 2 lower 
levels28• Labor-management 
meeting
• Collective agreement
• Workers ’ Union 
meeting
• Annual human rights event inspection100%
2.1%• Some institutes were in viola -
tion of regulations and legisla -
tion and corrective measures 
had to be taken.
• We continue to protect human 
rights through the Workers  
Union and Collective Agree -
ments.
Subsidiaries19• Annual CSR implementation inspection
100%
Re-investment 
Companies7• Annual CSR implementation inspection
100% 7.6%Some institutes were in violation of regulations. Suggestions for 
 
improvement have been provided  
and will be tracked and managed continuously.
Upstream 
and 
Downstream 
SuppliersTier  1 1,573 • CSR survey inventory
• CSR second party audit
• Occupational health and safety audit100% 0%• Some suppliers had violated the labor laws and regulations.
• Continue to follow-up of sup -
pliers with identified risk  to see if improvements have 
been made through Supplier 
Conference and other chan -
nels.Critical 
Tier 1133
Critical 
Tier 228
The PublicAll consumers• Diverse compliant channels (including discrimination and 
harassment)
• Satisfaction survey
• Personal 
information  and 
privacy protection inspection
• Minority group service mechanism100% 0%• No discrimination or harass -
ment, or any invasion of CHT customer privacy or misuse of 
personal information in 2019.
• Continue to promote the 5I 
SDGs Initiative to ensure in -
formation equality among the 
groups.Human Rights Value Protection
We proactively monitor and protect human rights. We respond to the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO 
Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination and the prohibition of forced and child labor. We also respond to the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social, and 
Cultural Rights, dedicating to promote human rights awareness and assure respect and fair treatment to all stakeholders.
CHT is a member of the International Telecom Union and we fully comply with International Radio Regulations. The 
regulation concerning: freedom of communication, transparency in global roaming charges and competition, support of Telecoms in developing nations, telecom services for persons with disabilities and the freedom of speech over 
telecom networks.
In addition, we support the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights by conducting a human rights due 
diligence investigation and  make sure that each human rights issue in the operational value chain is evaluated and we maintain all risk at a minimum level.
Note: Human rights issues include anti-discrimination, gender equality, freedom of association, collective bargaining, child labor, forced or compulsory labor, and aboriginal rights.Human Rights Material Risk Issues 
To fulfill the concept of anti-forced labor and appropriate working environment, we required the bidders to sign a “Declaration of Minerals as 
Conflict-Free ” during procurement. We evaluated 
the suppliers to determine if raw materials derived from human rights high-risk areas like the Democratic Republic of the Congo were being 
utilized to avoid harm to the basic human rights 
of local residents in places where we provided ICT products and services. We depend on demand and require the suppliers to provide certification of material resources, third-party verification 
or accepted auditing to confirm no related 
violations. 
We also required that all suppliers complied 
with the “Restriction of Hazardous Substances 
Directive ” (RoHS) to prevent hazardous  
substances from the source endangering local employees, the environment or customers. 
We use the Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS 18000/ISO 45001) to avoid potential risk and have systematically 
fulfilled employee safety and health management. In 
addition to compliance with the safety and health-related regulations toward high-risk tasks, we have also enhanced risk control. We continue to improve 
the working environment and act in regards to safety 
and health facilities and measures to actively ensure employee protection. 
Sometimes customer service personnel encounter 
irrational requests and even personal abuse from 
customers in the provision of our services. We established an SOP for employee response and acted at a critical level in certain circumstances. Legal 
assistance can be authorized to aid in the event of 
serious offenses and to prevent illegal practices. CHT adopted the ISO 10002 quality management system in 2011 and have a certified and flawless customer service procedure and management mechanism in 
place. We regularly offer pertinent training courses 
in customer relations, the management of emotional stress, and occupational hazard prevention. While building up professional capability, we positively 
avoid pressure to mental and physical health 
problems on customer service personnel. 9 courses were given, totaled 2,176 hours in 2019.CHT is creating a free and open information sharing environment without technological boundaries that can be shared by everyone. Such a system inherits 
culture, extends education, promotes industry, and 
upgrading art with a connection to the universe of the Internet. Digital technology can be beneficial to everyone irrespective of age, social standing, wealth, geographical location, or education. 
We base our approach on the characteristics of the 
ICT industry and the spirit of “value is where the 
responsibility lies, ” in our work with the communities 
in Taiwan. Our main objective is to “minimize the 
digital divide and create digital opportunities, ” 
CHT watches the trends of this digital divide and offer solutions that facilitate social innovation and digital inclusion. We spare no effort in “corporate 
volunteer, ” participate in community services, and 
proactively assist communities in the creation of digital opportunities.
Due to the nature of our industry, in addition to establishing information security management applicable to the enterprise operation, we also 
implement measures to safeguard our customers  
personal information. We implemented informa -
tion security in compliance with the international 
standards ISO 27001 and BS 10012 and carried out 
regular supplier auditing and supervision through 
employees or a third party. We also carried out vulnerability scanning and the testing of all equip -
ment and software from outside suppliers to en -
sure there were no back-doors or malware. 
Besides acquiring the customers agreement be -
fore the collection of any personal information, we 
established the internal “Security and Safety Prin -
ciple of Customer Information Re-use. ” Personnel 
need to make formal application and receive man -
agerial approval before accessing to the advanced information security system. The system itself not only supervises and records employee operations 
but also only reveals the number of customers un -
der certain conditions without touching detailed 
information. Related information also complies with the principle of “no names are revealed ” to 
prevent the downloading of personal information and avoid leakage or disclosure.2019 Value Chain Human Rights Evaluation Results
12Local Human Rights
Employment Human RightsInformation Equality
Customer Human Rights84 85
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Safeguarding Consumer Rights and Interests 
Digital Transformation of Diverse Virtual and Physical Channel Services
Chunghwa Telecom values consumers opinion. In addition to conveying technical features of the products and 
services we offer; we look at the matter from the point of view of the consumer. We provide consumers with the most comprehensive, high quality and efficient services putting a wide and diverse range of service channels at their 
disposal. By the end of 2019, we had 459 direct physical channel service stores, and 255 franchised stores, a total of 
714 service outlets that provide convenient service for all consumers in cities, or even in remote areas in Taiwan.
Ethical Marketing and Information Transparency and Friendliness
We provide a handbook about products and services for consumers that details product characteristics and applications, consider the negative aspect of overuse, and has friendly reminders provided while marketing. In addition, Chunghwa Telecom has set up the “Channel Sale Support Items Management Guideline ” and “Channel 
Sales Support Items Management Implementation Procedures ” to make the display of sales support items and 
operation management consistent throughout all the service and business locations. This ensures a positive service environment for consumers. These are vital for maintaining a superior and professional image as well as the service quality at Chunghwa Telecom. No violations of health and safety and product labeling was reported in 2019.
Green Services with Environmental Protection and Innovation Combined
In 2018, telecom combinative stores were established in Zhongli, Miaoli and Hsinchu, including cafe, 3C and an experimental display. The green stores capabilities were also developed and energy-saving household appliances such as electric scooter, TV, refrigerators, and air purifiers, promoting green business development and offering 
customers the one-stop shopping and whole-new store service experience.
Category Description
Customer service 
KiosksThese serve as the “Database” for business and engineering-related information. When 
new information is received, it will be verified according to an SOP . Afterward, an FAQ will be further drafted and uploaded to the customer information station for use by the 
Chunghwa Telecom customer service personnel (at service outlets and call centers) and 
the Internet counter. 
Consumer HotlineProvides complete information on the features of products and services, and related special offers. Proper Management of Personal Information
Pursuant to the pertaining laws, regulations, and international standards, the management system for personal and private data protection and “Privacy Policy” are established. Meanwhile, incorporating the “Privacy by Design” in the EU GDPR, SOPs and dedicated departments are in place. Rigid protection measures and secure environment 
are created to avoid theft, tampering, or illegal use of clients  data in line with the strict requirements of competent 
authorities. In addition, trainings on relevant regards are organized for our personnel.
We continue to better our operating procedures to ensure privacy protection security measures across all elements. 
All KPIs are reviewed regularly. We are open to auditing, internal and external, and pass the administrative inspection 
by competent authorities annually, offering our consumers a better cybersecurity and privacy protection. In 2019, 
there were 3 complaints about alleged information leak, 9 cases fewer than those in 2018. Such cases accounted for only 0.0000085% of our customer service hotline. After checked through all available channels, none of them were proved to be of a violation of relevant regulations.
Chunghwa Telecom Management Mechanism for Personal Information
Category Description
Collection / 
Processing / 
Usage• Personal data inventory and privacy impact analysis will be conducted prior to launch of a 
business. “Personal Data Collection Notice” is communicated explicitly via service websites, apps, stores, and Customer Service Hotline to individuals. The data collected are used in 
line with the specified purposes while users have right to access categories and methods of 
collection, processing, and use of the data thereof and the disclosure of such to a third party by Chunghwa Telecom as well as rights exercised by clients.
• Collection, storage, processing, and use of privacy and personal data are conducted within 
the scope of specified purposes and managed by Chunghwa Telecom itself, which shall not disclose such to a third party via exchange, lease, or any other means.
• In the event of working with a third-party service provider, technologies such as deidentification  
and pseudonymization, or statistics or tendency that renders deidentified results are employed in data exchange.
• Where it is stipulated by the laws or regulations (e.g. to further public interest or to prevent 
material harm on the rights and interests of others), we shall provide necessary information accordingly in cooperation with the government and law enforcement agencies as follows:
1. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic and the epidemic prevention needs of the government since 
January 26, 2020, Chunghwa Telecom acts in compliance with “Communicable Disease Control 
Act” and “Special Act for Prevention, Relief and Revitalization Measures for Severe Pneumonia with Novel Pathogens.” To advance the public interests, the telecom service providers in Taiwan are liable to provide necessary information in line with the regulations to facilitate enforcement of home isolation policy and prevent disease spread. With a rigid data security, Chunghwa Telecom 
deletes and keeps no record of data upon case closure for the privacy of its clients.
2. Where the government or a law enforcement agency requests or inquires access to 
information of clients for the protection of public safety and against crimes, in compliance 
with the “Directions Governing Telecommunication Enterprise's Handling of Inquiries about Data of Telecommunication Users by Relevant Agencies (Institutes)” and “Directions Governing Telecommunication Enterprise's Handling of Inquiries of Telecommunication Records by Relevant Agencies” , Chunghwa Telecom shall provide information accordingly to 
the government or law enforcement agency after a rigid examination.
Personal 
Rights• Pursuant to the Personal Information Protection Act, customers are entitled to request copies 
of their personal information, opt out of marketing communications, terminate contracts, and 
request deletion of their personal information.
Customer 
Service 
Control• Chunghwa Telecom member services, all customer service hotlines and digital mobile 
products have been certified under BS 10012. 
• Customer service operations are carried out according to the “Customer Service Department 
Personal Information Protection Manual.” Proper awareness is promoted regularly and detailed records are kept for future reference. 
• A personal information incident procedure has been in place that requires the customer 
service center to handle all leaks of personal information in line with the “Customer Service Department Personal Information Incident Procedure Handbook.”86 87
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Refined Customer Service
Chunghwa Telecom provides services which are 
refined, thoughtful and professional to build warm atmosphere around customer relations. 
We use big data analysis to learn the true needs 
of customers so that we can offer thoughtful and customized services and products. In 2019, CHT was crowned the “Top Prize in the Telecom 
Category ” of the 2019 Five-Star Service Awards 
presented by Global Views Monthly, “Best Smart 
Customer Service System Application ” and “Best 
Enterprise in Service Innovation ” from the 2019 
Customer Service Excellence Awards (CSEA) of 
TCCDA,  and Honghwa Subsidiary was given the 
 
“Best Telemarketing Team ” award and the  
“Best Training team. ” We also ranked as the No. 1  
“4G service provider” in Next Magazines 16th 
Annual Outstanding Service List in the same year. 
CHT s positive approach cultivates both favorable 
impressions and brand loyalty. We set high 
standards for our customer service hotline. To ensure quality service, we sought multiple international certifications, including ISO 9001, 
ISO 10002, BS 10012, and ISO/IEC 27001. In recent 
years, we have been using big data analytics to identify customers concerns and to improve 
the overall user experience. Through sincere 
communication and system improvements, we are able to create additional value for our customers. Commendation for 
Best Customer Service Personnel
To inspire passion and professionalism among customer 
service officers, we reward customer service personnel who receive praise from customers, and accept these credits as 
part of their performance appraisal as an excellent service 
quality. Meanwhile, a “Service Excellence ” section has been 
created on the Intranet to publish cases of excellent service for personnel to share, learn and download.
KPIs for Customer Service Hotline 
In 2011, Chunghwa Telecom became the telecom carrier to have all its centers certified for the “ISO 10002:2004 
Customer Complaint Management System. ” The Company views customer complaints as opportunities to make 
ongoing improvements. The resolution of customer complaints and dissatisfaction is rule-based and they must be 
settled within 3 working days. This approach ensures the continuous improvement of service quality. In addition to 
the customer service hotline, consumers may also use the corporate website or Representative Line authorized by the President (02-23446789) to raise complaints directly to the assistance of the senior executive.
Customer Satisfaction Survey
We conduct a broad variety of satisfaction surveys to identify the issues of most concern to consumers and their expectations. We use these findings to guide future improvements. After each survey, the opinions and suggestions 
are conveyed promptly to product or business personnel (including Risk 
Management and the Public Relations Departments) using the consumer feedback system. Furthermore, consumers opinions are brought to the attention of the senior manager of the product and customer service 
departments for discussion at monthly meetings to ensure that the consumers 
expectations receive proper consideration. 
Regarding the IPA (Importance-Performance Analysis) items belonging to the 
fourth quadrant (high importance and low performance) after a review of 
the results of the annual satisfaction survey, we will request that the relevant functional units conduct further analysis and propose measures for concrete improvement every year. There will also be a follow-up in the next quarter to 
keep track of the progress of any corrective action found necessary.Chunghwa Telecom Customer Service Mechanism Overview
Item Description
Customer 
Service 
Location / 
Size• The Company has 15 customer service centers 
• The number of customer service personnel averages  2,700 
Multi-
Channel 
Customer 
Services• Webchat 
• Social media, “Chunghwa Telecom 
Dr. Q Fan Page” 
• Web customer service center • Mobile customer service center
• Mobile App
• SMS
Training 
ResultWe use customer service training workshops to refine our customer-centric approach and devotion to the provision of the most thoughtful services. In 2019, Customer Journey and Service Improvement Class” and “Customer Service Philosophy Class, ” 10 sessions in total, 
cultivating approximately 315 seeding personnel in the Chunghwa Telecom training facilities 
in Banqiao, Taichung, and Kaohsiung, have effectively inspired the employees for customer services. CHT holds a very high standard for customer representatives. Besides the basic requirement of tone and manners of speech, we place even more emphasis on professional 
knowledge and competence. In 2019 alone, 5,885 employees received 128,000 hours of training 
combined. 
Year Total Participants Total Training Hours Average Training Hours
2019 5,885 127,511 21.7
2018 5,684 141,207 24.8
2017 6,832 161,911 23.7In 2017, we created the “AI Customer Service Chatbot, ” which is 100 % in-house developed by CHT 
Telecommunication Laboratories. Customer representatives took on the role of “robot trainers, ” transforming 
massive yet disorganized customer data into useful and systematic information in the AI knowledge base. 
Developers also designed various customer interaction scenarios to fine-tune the chatbots machine learning 
process. The goal is to offer 24/7 real-time customer service, providing users with useful information and solving basic issues that might arise.
A preliminary version of the chatbot was launched in 2018. The text-based customer service robots for fixed 
line and for data broadband business came online in succession in 2019, offering innovative functions like replies rich in texts and graphs, OTP authentication module, inquiry of personal information, tips for business opportunity referral, batch phrase import, and CHT App simultaneous authentication interface. The incoming calls for customer service in 2019 totaled 410,000 calls, of which service completion by robots were 290,000 calls, 
achieving a significant result of a 70% completion rate and a 97% AI recognition rate.AI Customer Service Chatbot　 KPI 2017 2018 2019
Customer Service Response 
within 20 Seconds72.26% 73.42% 73.37%
Service Satisfaction (5-point scale) 4.68 4.71 4.74
Large Enterprise
Small and Medium  
Enterprise
General Customer 8.98
8.68
7.79Designate an external 
market survey company  
to conduct consumer 
satisfaction survey
Survey Result (10-point scale)88 89
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Total Coverage of Free 4G Telecommunication in Remote Areas Enhanced Disaster Response and Communication Coverage
Expand Wireless HotspotsWe are constantly expanding our mobile network. We have the most 4G cell towers and the highest 4G signal 
coverage in Taiwan. According to test results published by the government, our network speed is the fastest across all 22 administrative districts in Taiwan. Our network quality has been unanimously commended by domestic and 
international mobile analytics organizations, including OpenSignal “top 4G download speed ” and “best overall 
download speed ” and Speedtest “ fastest mobile Internet speed in Taiwan ”. 
As always, customer satisfaction is our top priority. We will continue to improve our mobile network to provide 
customers with top-notch services. To ensure the equal sharing of information, in addition to a positive strengthening 
of mobile Internet quality in populous metropolitan areas, we have paid more attention to signal coverage in remote 
areas. We have achieved 100% total 4G coverage in all towns, and continue to go deep into the mountain areas and off-shore islands. Specifically, the coverage in rural areas has reached 98.06%.
To promote equal digital rights, we support the “DIGI+ Program ” initiative introduced by the Executive Yuan.  
We plan to increase 1Gbps network coverage to 90% by 2020, 2Gbps network coverage to 90% by 2025. Providing 
ultra-broadband Internet in remote areas to balance urban-rural development, encouraging innovation in the 
digital economy, creating value added in the industry, and, in turn, stimulating overall economic growth. In 2019, 
we invested NT$ 160 million in 102 network improvement projects, and the following projects were successfully completed: 1Gbps network speed across all townships, 100 Mbps across all villages, increasing Wi-Fi hotspot bandwidths, improving 4G cell towers in rural areas, etc.Chunghwa Telecom continues to install repeaters, backup wireless routers, and backup power supplies to increase reliable transmission capacity in remote areas. By increasing the capacity of backup batteries to more than 72 hours, the Company ensures that residents in remote locations can stay connected even when main power has been disrupted by a 
natural disaster.
We have also supported the government initiative for the promotion of free wireless Internet services nationally. 
Through a reasonable Wi-Fi rental package available, as well as a robust user authentication platform and a nationwide maintenance/monitoring system, we have helped the government deploy free Wi-Fi hotspots nationwide. By the end 
of 2019, we had installed more than 53,000 public Wi-Fi hotspots, giving users access to stable broad-bandwidth in a 
densely covered Wi-Fi service. 
Our contributions to social events in 2019 included working with local county and city governments to provide Wi-Fi hotspots and enable Internet access at festive gatherings and international sports events. We installed 15 hotspots for the 2019 Sea of Flowers in Xinshe, 58 hotspots for New Year’ s Eve festivity, 116 for the Lantern Festival and about 48 for other 
activities. The Company participated in 19 festive occasions, built 237 hotspots in total, and spent more than NT$ 2 million.Disaster Report and Upgraded Safety
In efforts to minimize the impact of disasters by prompt messaging, the Chunghwa Telecom self-developed “Emergency 
Response SMS System” sent out more than 420,000 SMS alerts in 2019, and apply to Directorate General of Highways  
“Traffic Conditions Alert System,” and Atomic Energy Council s periodic “Nuclear Safety Drills,”and the National Fire 
Agency's disaster prevention exercises, successfully playing its part in disaster prevention information notification.
In addition, a “Public Warning System ” (PWS) has been established to support the national policy of emergency message 
dissemination about typhoons, earthquakes, thunderstorms, landslides, roadblocks, reservoir discharge or an outbreak 
of disease, fast and correctly to specific regions simultaneously, assisting government agencies and the general public 
improving their disaster prevention awareness and capabilities. As long as a mobile phone is open to the PWS function, all our customers will receive messages about disasters. 
The PWS issued over 8,000 times of emergency warnings across Taiwan in 2019. In the event of Nanfang'ao Bridge 
Collapse, emergency evacuation notice was broadcasted via the PWS, thus effectively assisting the government agencies 
in the major tasks of emergency notification for disaster relief.To enhance the quality of mobile communication coverage in the region of Yushan National Park and along the mountaineering routes for the purpose of elevating the efficiency emergency 
rescue as well as the safety for climbers and conservation rangers, 
Chunghwa Telecom has been proactively set up a co-constructed mobile communication cell site at the Yushan North Peak pursuant to the policy of NCC since 2012.
After the Yushan North Peak Cell Site came online, the signal 
coverage along the Yushan mountaineering trails, including the important spots such as the trailhead, the Main Peak, and the North Peak, is strengthened while beneficial to the communication quality in 5 emergency shelters across peaks of Yushan, the Batongguan Historical Trail, and Paiyun Lodge. Thus, it not only provides cellphone positioning and 
emergency calls needed during emergency rescue, but also makes available the Public Warning Cell Broadcast 
Service (CBS) and “ 112” emergency call service.
In addition, Chunghwa Telecom, together with Yushan National Park Headquarters, plans to set up 250 mobile communication service signs along the Yushan mountaineering routes and important spots, so as to fulfill the needs of cellphone communication of mountaineers and emergency relief and rescue, which is a testimony of Chunghwa Telecom sparing no effort in network construction and its commitment to elevate the mobile 
communication quality in the mountains.“Pinnacle of Mobile Communication for Mountaineering” – 
Yushan North Peak Cell Site Online
Item Description
Responses 
MeasureWe conduct annual emergency drills for a wide number of different events, from the 
coordination of network resources and equipment to emergency repairs. Our base stations have been deployed in a diversified manner and are covered by robust backup plans so that failure of 
circuitry, power or equipment at any base station will not disrupt the operation of other nearby 
base stations. 
Occurrence 
of DisasterIf communication is severely disrupted in the unfortunate event of a natural disaster, we take contingency measures, that depends on the actual circumstances, to maintain communication between the disaster locations and the outside world. These can include microwave radio, 
satellite transmission, portable base stations, etc. 
Special 
CasesBasic communication service is key to emergency rescue in the mountains. To meet 
mountaineers need for emergency communication, we have launched the “Skynet Project ” 
jointly with the Forestry Bureau in 2017, constructing nearly 3,500 cell sites across 149 popular 
mountaineering trails in the 15 cities/counties in Taiwan to better the communication quality in 
rural areas and as the most steadfast backing for mountain rescue.
Major Service Interruptions in 2019 and Countermeasures
1. Description of the interruption: The obstacle with 5ESS switch system of Madou, Tainan affected the local call 
service of 18,000 households.
2. Reason for the Interruption: The obstacle with the hard drive of the switch system led to an anomaly in the system 
operation.
3. Improvement measures:
• Faithful execution of monthly backup of the switch system in case of emergency
• Improvement of the maintenance mechanism with the switch system to shorten the time for obstacle removal
• Utilization of decommissioned IDC for on-the-job training to improve personnels emergency response
4.  Implementation status:
• The switch system of Madou, Tainan replaced
• Continuous enhancement of maintenance measures and promotion for preventive centralized monitoring
5. Outcomes:
• Average annual interruption frequency lowered from 0.0016 per user in 2018 to 0.0007 per user in 2019. 
• Average annual interruption duration lowered from 0.63 minutes in 2018 to 0.138 minutes in 2019. Video90 91
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
  The Creative Industry Pilot 58              The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
The Alleviation of Public Concern about Electromagnetic Waves
Telecom Services and PromotionsAccording to a report by the World Health Organization (WHO) and related scientific research, exposure to base 
stations and Wi-Fi signals does not affect human health. For this issue, Chunghwa Telecom ensures strict compliance with the authoritys safety standards when constructing telecom infrastructure. The Specific Absorption Rate 
(SAR) of all mobile communication products we purchased have complied with the restrictions of the National 
Communications Commission (NCC). 
Given the scarcity of suitable base station locations and the need to assure consumer rights to quality 
communication, we will strive to comply with regulations by taking the approved precautions at all stages of 
installation. In 2019, Chunghwa Telecom incurred NT$ 2.62 million in fines and administrative penalties on 6 counts 
of violations associated with base stations. These violations occurred as we sought to address consumer demand for “good reception ” and concern towards “ negative health impacts from base stations. ” 
The measurement of the electromagnetic radiation in the environment conforms to the standard of the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), which must be lower than 0.45 μW/cm
2 
at 900MHz and less than 0.9μW/cm2 at 1,800MHz. Any resident who has concerns regarding base stations near their 
home can request a free complimentary measurement of the strength of the nearby electromagnetic waves by  
calling 0800-580-010.
In 2007, Chunghwa Telecom assisted the government in establishing the 165 Anti-Fraud Consultation Hotline to support the police and authorities in the defiance against fraud.We continue to minimize negative material circulating on the Internet through diverse action plans, and endeavor to provide consumers with a healthy, trouble-free network environment.Chunghwa Telecom has been working closely with the Taiwan Telecom Industry Development Association to convey to the public the correct information about electromagnetic waves, by organizing conferences and issuing promotional materials. 
• The Company joined NCC and 15 county/city governments nationwide in hosting 15 seminars on the topic of 
electromagnetic waves, 9 local infrastructure promotion forums, and 122 free complimentary electromagnetic wave measurements have been completed to date. 
• Local government bodies were issued some promotional material and pamphlets about electromagnetic radiation, 
which were distributed to the public during various activities to promote proper understanding.Advocate the Accurate Understanding of Electromagnetic Waves
Notes: Installed on existing buildingsTypes of Base Stations Installed by CHT
Fraud Prevention Reducing Negative Impact of the Internet
Item Description
Resources 
Committed• An average of 7 customer service personnel joined the service every month to work with the 
Criminal Investigation Bureau in a concerted front-line duty effort from Monday to Friday.
• “Disconnection Service Fraud Prevention System ” offers information on some suspected 
telephone gimmicks used for cheating customers and a timely settlement of the problem. 
An average of 2 customer service person participated in the program each month.
Prevention 
of Fraud on 
Network / 
Mobile Devices• A two-way, SMS-based authentication system was introduced for small payments. 
• A scam alert was added to all two-way SMS authentication messages. 
Progress 
Description in 
2019• The hotline received 134,000 calls, and 14,000 cases of fraud were referred to the authorities. 
• The Company assisted the Criminal Investigation Bureau, National Policy Agency in 
disconnecting 2,138 phone numbers, and successfully stopped 1,631 scams. Item Description
Anti-Virus and 
Anti-HackerA HiNet mailbox gives customers access to a free webmail service. A simple setup, allows users to 
decide if questionable e-mail will be automatically deleted in the future. We continue to monitor the formulation of the regulatory obligations of the “Regulations for Commercial Electronic Spam Mail” 
and  management obligations of the Internet Service Provider (ISP).
Adult ContentProvides “K12 Mailbox Forced Isolation, ” the “HiNet Adult Content Gatekeeper, ” and the “Mobile 
Adult Content Security Guard, ” keeps children and teenagers out of harmful websites.
Usage Time 
ControlThe “HiNet Online Time Management Service ” and mobile phone “3G Talk Without Worries ” 
programs, giving parents effective control of the mobile phone and Internet use.
MOD Parental 
LockThe Parental Lock can be set at “protected ” or “parental guidance. ” Settings are in effect 
immediately once the password has been entered. The parental lock can be used to protect 
children from harmful or bad content.Independent Station
Shared Station 85.83%14.17%
82.5%17.5%92 93
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66                  The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
• Facilitation of greenness in the ICT industry (Green of ICT) and overall greenness of 
society through ICT (Green by ICT) 
• Instituted the “ Code of Corporate Social Responsibility for Suppliers of Chunghwa 
Telecom Co., Ltd. ”
• Instituted the “ Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.  Procurement Grievance Procedures ”
• Establishment of the “ Environmental Sustainability Development Strategies and 
5-Year Plan ”S
AM
R
T• CHT CSR Supplier Conference / Sustainable Environmental Visit
• Targets low-carbon industries and promotes solar power
The SDGs CHT contributes to in this section: 6 , 7 , 12 , 13
Promises to Reach the Following Targets in 2020:
• COD of the solar power plant of Taichung Materials Warehouse with a capacity of 1,200 kW
•  100 % “Tier 1 suppliers ” CSR current status assessment 
•  100 % “Critical tier 1 suppliers ” edu cational training of carbon management knowledge and 
ESG on-site audits
Completion of the first smart green-energy staff dormitory in Taiwan by 2021
Promises to Reach the Following Targets in 2023:
• The capacity for renewable energy constructed from proprietary was 750  kWp
• Taking 2017 as the base year, a 10 % reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in our buildings
• Taking 2017 as the base year to cumulatively save 10% of the energy by 2023 pursuant to the 
generator room energy-saving program
• Collect the suppliers information on climate change and carbon emission at least once a year• Efficient energy management using “ EARTH ” 
• The launch of the 5G initiative in pursuit of profit, environmental sustainability, 
and social responsibility 
• Became the first telecom service provider in Taiwan to implement:
1. Collaboration with the Sustainable Alliance for Low-carbon Economy (SALE) to issue the “
Sustainable Partnership Certificate ”
2. Signed on as a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
initiative
3. Incorporation of the ISO 20400 Sustainable Procurement Standard
4. Joined the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain
IGHG Emissions  823,751.09  t-CO 2e
A CHT photovoltaic system with  a total capacity 600.745  kWpImplement the “Suppliers CSR second 
party audit ” on 20  suppliers
96 Taiwan Renewable Energy 
Certificates (T-REC) acquired CHTCHT
CHT
The First Smart Green-Energy Staff Dormitory in Taiwan
To attract talents of advanced technology, we invested an amount of nearly NT$300 million to construct a new staff 
dormitory of 6-story high and 1-story below at the Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories in Yangmei District of Taoyuan City. It shall come with integrated services of CT and IT, embedding advanced ICT applications into the building 
to strengthen the building management efficiency and improve the living quality in the dormitory. We construct 
a forward-looking smart building fused with energy-efficiency and ICT in line with the standards of both national certifications for green building and for smart building.Upon completion of the main building, highlight services such as AI smart home, smart accommodation, facial recognition, IoT sensing, MOD service, Intelligent Operation Center (IOC), Building Information Modeling (BIM), home health, and the circular economy shall be introduced in succession to build a quality living environment of next generation with 5 elements of green, intelligence, health, innovation, and circulation incorporated.GRIStrategy
Management
Action
Response
Target
IndicatorThe Green
Corporation 
Pioneer94 95
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66                  The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
1G  Green Operations5G Green Enterprise
Although telecom is regarded as a low-polluting industry, Chunghwa Telecom is 
well aware of the environmental impacts associated with energy, resources, waste, maintenance, purchasing and other aspects of our operation. 
We have devised a new set of “Sustainable Environment Development Strategy and 
Target Plan ” that outlines our overall strategy and roadmap for sustainable environmental 
development. In addition, budgets will be provided in each year to support action plans.
To fulfill our green commitment and embrace the worlds green challenge, Chunghwa Telecom has adopted a “
Green Enterprise, Sustainability and Innovation Strategy ” with the introduction of 5G (Green): Green Operation, 
Green Energy, Green Stores, Green Supply Chain, and Green Procurement, aiming to address financial success, 
sustainability and social responsibility.Chunghwa Telecom has set a goal to become a sustainable “Green enterprise, ” and has made environmental issues 
an incorporated part of business operation and management. We hope to play a more proactive role in issues such as 
energy and climate change. By improving energy efficiency and exploring eco-friendly products and services, we are confident of our potential to inspire a new generation of low-carbon industries. 
Green Enterprise Green Sustainability Green Innovation
Short-Term
Mid-Term
Long-TermReduce power usage 
effectiveness (PUE) of new 
IDCs to less than 1.5
Maintain at least 5% of the 
green purchase
Make more than 50 % of 
purchases from the 
green supply chainAbsolutely reduce  1% of 
annual electricity in terms 
of absolute value
Construct more than 
1,000  kWp of 
photovoltaic systems
Construct more than 
5,000  kWp of 
photovoltaic systemsSave power by 1 % at the 
telecom server and IDCs
Achieve 1% annual 
revenue growth of green 
products/services
Green products/services 
to account for 20 % 
of total revenue1G
2G
3G
4G
5G• A self-developed EARTH system for 100 %  
control of environmental information
• Received ISO 14001/ISO 50001 and ISO 14064-1 certification at all  our 
business locations
•  The sole telecom carrier that has obtained the ISO 14046 certification 
in the industry of Taiwan
• Transformed 458  service centers into “ Green Stores ”
• Syntrend Store in Taipei as the sole  “net-zero carbon store ” in the industry 
of Taiwan that obtained “ ISO 14067, EPAs Service Carbon Label, and PAS 
2060 carbon neutrality certification ”
• Promoted paperless services and accumulated a saving of 580 million 
sheets of paper per year
• Reached a total of NT$ 1.024 billion in green procurement  in 2019
• Reached  5% of total procurement as green procurement  
every year• Self-constructed photovoltaic systems reached a total capacity of 600.745  kWp 
• A self-constructed renewable energy generating capacity of 760,000  kwh
• Acquired 96  Taiwan Renewable Energy Certificates 
• Became the first telecom carrier to promote supply chain sustainability management
• Formally incorporated the ISO 20400 Sustainable Procurement Standard 
Participated in the CDP Supply Chain Project to expand the efficiency 
of carbon managementGreen 
Operations
Green 
Energy
Green 
Stores
Green 
Supply Chain
Green 
ProcurementEnvironment ARtificer THeurgy (EARTH) 
We developed the Environment ARtificer THeurgy (EARTH) system in 2008 to manage resources and protect the 
environment more efficiently as well as to reduce spending on energy consumption. EARTH system features include:
The sole telecom operator in Taiwan that passed 
water footprint certification
To accurately capture the water resource risks and in response to the UN SDG 
6 “Clean Water and Sanitation, ” we chose the most representative “Rated 
4 IDC of the Greater China region – Banqiao IDC and Cloud Data Center ” of 
Chunghwa Telecom for ISO 14046 certification on water footprint inventory and certification. As a result, it passed the verification by the SGS-Taiwan and obtained the assurance statement, making Chunghwa Telecom the sole telecom operator in Taiwan that passed water footprint certification. The 
benefits achieved are as follows:
• Water resource management strategy established:  establishment of 
the SOP for organizations water footprint helps in the attainment of 
water resource management targets.
• Enterprises water usage management enhanced:  the water usage 
distribution in the enterprise is captured effectively via water footprint 
inventory in order to create a complete water resource management system and stipulate proper measures to achieve the target of water conservation.
Energy Saving and Innovation
Energy savings and innovation initiatives have been 
uploaded and implemented in all departments to encourage employees to learn from each other.
Carbon Emission Management:
This provides a carbon verification form and the results were greatly enhanced as 300 man-day operations saved.400
Carbon Footprint Label 
No. 2014832001
 per person served
http://www.epa.gov.tw
Corporate 
Tree PlantingRecycling ManagementFuel Management
Fuel use data for hybrid and 
ordinary vehicles were analyzed to improve energy efficiency and reduce carbon emission.Document type, number, management department and location of trees. There are over 251 varieties of tree and 67,357 tree data points saved in the EARTH database.Document type, volume of recycled material and the recycling management department. We have recorded 22 types of recycling and there have been 18,026,950 entries made.
Performance 
EvaluationPower Management Water Management
Performance evaluation is 
conducted systematically to encourage employees to contribute to environmental sustainability actions.Request centralized payment of electricity bill; there are more than 63,791 electricity accounts and 2,581,268 units of electricity payment data under management.Request centralized payment of water bill; there are more than 1,295 water accounts and 118,843 units of water payment data under management.96 97
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66                  The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
YearTotal 
Electricity 
Consumption 
(A)General 
Consumption
 (B)Business 
Consumption 
– Meter Rate 
Lighting Service 
 (C)Business 
Consumption – 
Flat Rate Lighting 
Service 
 (D)Business 
Consumption 
Increment 
 (E)Business 
Consumption 
Increment Rate 
(F)
2007 135,180 9,420 125,151 609 NA NA
2017 136,269 108,525 22,289 5,455 -3,103 -11.18%
2018 137,191 106,264 24,107 6,819 3,182 2.32％
2019 135,066 103,338 25,497 6,231 802 0.59%Year 2017 2018 2019
Unit: 
10,000
kWh16,065 16,440 16,600Year 2018 2019
Solar power generation(A) 95,624 100,896
Total power consumption(B) 21,411,200 24,470,132
Energy-saving ratio(A/[A+B]) 0.44% 0.41%
Year 2017 2018 2019
Tap Water 776,377 753,023 691,954
Air-conditioner water 1,742,680 1,624,419 1,590,716
Recycled water 7,614 7,398 3,776
Note: Starting from 2018, the amount of resource and energy consumed by Honghwa International in its rented areas are excluded.Unit: tonnesUnit: kWh
Unit: 10,000kWh2G  Green Energy
Chunghwa Telecom has been positively supporting the government policy and applying its extensive ICT 
background knowledge in the construction of solar power stations. By the end of 2019, the Company had 62 solar power stations around Taiwan with a total capacity of 600.745 kWp.
1. The method of calculation was modified in 2016 to more efficiently present power usage. 2. B: office buildings and employee dormitories; C: base stations, depot, and public telephone, which are not  
CHT-owned property. 
3. A=B+C+D, General consumption mainly includes the power consumption of office building. Business consumption 
increment includes flat and meter rate lighting service. 
4. E=Business consumption this year - Business consumption last year; F=E/A 5. This table presents electricity consumption with customer ID, other consumption without customer ID is covered 
by greenhouse gas inventory. Energy Savings for Data Centers
Water Resource ManagementElectricity Consumption of IDCs Renewable energy usage in IDC in BanqiaoChunghwa Telecom places great emphasis on the energy efficiency of our data centers, and is currently implementing energy conservation measures for telecom data centers (including IDCs). The efficient application of our proprietary iEN smart energy management system and Power Operation Supervisory System (POSS) for IDCs are our scientific approach 
to reducing energy, carbon emission and protection of the environment.
Water usage at Chunghwa Telecom is mostly domestic. Apart from bathroom use, air conditioner cooling accounts for 
another major water use. Given the ongoing increase in business activities and manpower, there is limited room for water reduction besides the recovery of rainwater and cooling water. 
We benchmarked the 2012 water usage as the standard, and now control the annual growth of water usage to no more 
than 2%. In addition to a new water leakage detection feature in products, we have also included Company water consumption in the EARTH system. Centralized water bill payment is done through the EARTH “water bill management ”
 
function to reduce the printing of water bills. Managers can use the system to search, generate trend charts and report forms, and provide exception reports to avoid mistakes in billing and meter reading. Managers can also review the 
situation of water usage according to trend charts and reports, reduce expenses in water, and improve the efficiency of 
management. 
The management and analysis information interface can be used to promote water conservation measures and set concrete management goals. We also promote water-saving measures to increase efficiency in water use:
To enhance the effectiveness of water recycling and reuse, we have set up raft foundation 
water collection systems underground to collect clean rainwater from rooftops and the 
ground surface. We have also initiated the recycling of cooled and condensed water from 
office air-conditioners and promoted a recycling and reuse plan for rainwater, bathwater and air conditioner water. The recycled water is reused for watering plants and cleaning sidewalks, being utilized to its fullest extent.Item 2017 2018 2019
Environmental management 
expense (NT$ thousand)300,722 319,637 328,558
Accounted percentage of 
turnover (%)0.15 0.15 0.16Environmental Management ExpensesGreen Environmental Hostels
Chunghwa Telecom Hostels provide accommodation for employee business or leisure travel. In response to 
environmental protection and personal hygiene, the hostels do not provide disposable, or consumable items or towels. They also take energy-saving measures such as solar water heating, air conditioning using heat pumps and 
LED lighting. 19 hostels had been certified as Environmentally Friendly Accommodation by 2019.
Ecotourism
Chunghwa Telecom hopes to provide eco-tours 
that are both educational and entertaining for our employees, so that they understand concepts of 
extreme weather, responsible tourism, respect 
for nature and the rights of local residents. We hold regular company eco-tours with the hopes of incorporating environmental education into 
traveling and daily life. We held 105 tours in 2019, 
costing a total of NT$ 87,186 thousand with 18,935 participants.
• Install sink faucet sprayers to reduce waste
• Install dual flush toilets to reduce waste
• Use collected rainwater for watering office plants
• Encourage the installation of water reclamation equipment in new buildings,  
so that physically separated and treated sewage water can be reused for  non-potable purposes after it has reached a certain quality standardVideo98 99
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66                  The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Waste Management
Chunghwa Telecom understands the importance of resources reduction, recycling and reuse and has combined  
related reduction plans into the EARTH system. This is used to manage the use of resources and control energy efficiency, as well as to conduct systematic management of recyclables and waste treatment. We contracted a 
professional waste treatment company to transport our daily waste to landfills or incinerators for disposal. Recyclable 
waste is handled by a contracted cleaning company that is responsible for classification, treatment and proper disposal.
Industrial Waste
Scrapped lead-acid batteries are recyclable industrial waste regulated by the EPA. Business organizations are responsible for the reduction of pollution, disposal of toxic substances and simple waste disposal. All recycling and disposal operations are outsourced by joint contract based on the public auction. The contractor must be a qualified 
service provider listed on the website of the Recycling Fund Management Board of the EPA to ensure legitimate 
management and disposal and to reduce negative environmental impact.
Scrapped lead-acid batteries from each business unit are auctioned on site, and the “Announcement and Delivery 
Slip for Removal and Disposal of Waste Lead-Acid Batteries ” is retained for reference. The gradual rise in raw material 
prices has also caused the recycling and reuse value of scrapped lead-acid batteries to increase. A total of 54,398 lead-
acid batteries with a total weight of 3,592,131 kg were scrapped and sold for NT$ 61,867 thousand in 2019. In fulfilling our responsibility for environmental protection, we also increased Company revenue. The public and private waste clearance and disposal companies recognized by environmental institutions are designated to handle the treatment of other industrial waste such as cables and miscellaneous hardware.Year 2017 2018 2019
Weight of daily waste 4,389 3,505 2,881
Note: Starting from 2018, the amount of resource and energy consumed by Honghwa International in its rented areas are excluded.Unit: tonnes
180,764 227,460 191,223
Plastic-filled Cable
（Metric ton）Ordinary Cable
（Metric ton）Miscellaneous Hardware
（Metric ton）Batteries
（Piece）3G  Green Stores 
Chunghwa Telecom is a highly-localized telecom carrier, a generous contributor to community development, and one of the most important partners to other telecom carriers around the world. As technologies progressed and improved, we began some operations 
that were outside the conventional telecom boundaries, “corporate social responsibility ” 
concepts were introduced into products and services research, development, applications, 
and into the Company management strategies.
Green Revenue
In addition to developing products friendly to the environment, we have been promoting Green Stores and were the first telecom carrier in Taiwan to fully turn service centers into Green Stores.  In 2019, green revenue was NT$ 106.61 million, which was 5.4% of the commercial products revenue.
Paperless Receipt Service
We have been promoting electronic billing since 2001, and reduce carbon emission by eliminating the use of paper bills. In 2017, we offered paperless receipt service. At the end of 2019, the percentage of paperless receipts exceeded 70%. The service saved 580 million sheets of paper and an estimated 52,722 trees, reducing carbon emission by 10,439 metric tons.
Year                   2017                  2018                 2019
Customer applying for e-bills (10 thousand) 1,609 1,869 1,933
Ratio of customers applying for e-bills 59% 68% 70%
Quantity of paper saved (1,000 sheets) 482,630 560,700 579,946
Number of trees saved 43,876 50,973 52,722
Reduction of carbon emission volume (metric ton) 8,678 10,093 10,439
We have connected tightly eco-friendliness and green energy with network services. While offering premium services to the general public, we further aim to achieve a “green communication ” with our consumers 
for them to capture the eco-friendliness and low-carbon nature in products and services precisely.
In 2019, the Syntrend store of Chunghwa Telecom completed the service 
centers carbon footprint calculation and obtained the “ISO 14067 
Assurance Statement ” issued by the SGS-Taiwan. To better adhere to 
the corporate philosophy “Always Ahead, ” we further applied for the 
EPA's Carbon Label for Services and purchased 50 tons of carbon right, 
securing the carbon neutrality certification PAS 2060 and achieving the 
standard of zero carbon emission.
Through certification and verification domestically and internationally (ISO 
14067, PAS 2060, and EPAs Carbon Label), we successfully became the first telecom operator that obtained carbon label for service center in Q2 of 2020 
with the sole net-zero carbon emission store in the industry of Taiwan!The sole net-zero carbon emission store in the industry of TaiwanDisposal Fee (NT$ thousand)
Amount
12633,332
27,194
26,1531,152
703
1031,402
2901,3481,350
8192019 2018 2017
0g
Chunghwa Telecom Carbon Label Information1. The data of paper saved and reduction of carbon emission is by e-bills (including SMS) and combined bills.
2. Each e-bill reducing the use of envelopes and paper are 2.5 sheets of A4 paper. Total amount of paper saved:  
number customers applying for e-bill×2.5×12 (month)
3. 1 sheet of A4 paper generates 18 grams of CO 2; Carbon emission reduced:  
number of paper saved (1,000 sheets) ×18 grams
4. The number of trees saved: each ton of paper pulp produced=20 trees; one ton of paper pulp=220 thousand sheets of 
A4 paper. Therefore, the number of trees saved = number of of paper saved÷220 thousand×20100 101
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66                  The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
4G  Green Supply Chain
The responsibilities and mission of Chunghwa Telecom, as the leader of the telecom industry, are “ Green of ICT and 
Green by ICT. ” This implies facilitation of the greenness of the ICT industry (Green of ICT) and overall greenness of 
society through ICT (Green by ICT). From 2008 onwards, Chunghwa Telecom developed measures year by year to 
improve the sustainability of the supply chain, and we accomplished two pioneering achievements:
Future green supply chains will entail more than just supplier commitment to environmental protection and the 
life cycle of green products. Chunghwa Telecom will continue to explore value-added applications of ICT, and introduce robust systems to facilitate better coordination and management, as well as complete monitoring of the supply chain.
5G  Green Procurement 
Chunghwa Telecom supports government policy and prepares annual budgets for the purchase of green products that are either environmental-certified (less polluting, recyclable, resource-saving or green building material) or self-declared to be of less environmental impact throughout the product lifecycle (from raw material to disposal). 
The Company also actively participates in green procurement programs and activities to inspire green purchases 
amongst others in the industry and the public.
Our goals and policies concerning green procurement, as we hope to maintain green purchases at more than 5% of 
the total purchases per year over the mid-term, and increase this percentage to more than 50% over the long term. 
To achieve this goal, we incorporated the ISO 20400 Sustainable Procurement Standard at the end of 2018. The implementation of the ISO management system helped reinforce the idea of green procurement.
Year 2017 2018 2019
Green procurement total (NT$ million) 1,223 1,487 1,024
Accounted percentage of total procurement 4.45% 3.36 % 2.47%
Note: For more information about Green Supply Chain and Green Procurement, please refer to p.102-107.Item Description
Environmental 
Information 
Disclosures• Published CSR reports and the disclosure of environmental data to respond to the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (DJSI) every year
• Execution of an annual greenhouse gas inventory and acquisition of ISO 14064-1 verification 
and certifications
• Responded to the annual Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire
• Responded to related national rating questionnaires (including CommonWealth and Global 
Views Magazines)
• Signed on as a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
initiative
Improve 
Energy Use 
Efficiency• Merged and exploited data center spaces
• Saved cooling energy: implemented some energy saving with 130 HP inverter module, sensible 
heat air conditioners of 1720 RT, 900 highly efficient air conditioners, 140 RT ventilation air 
conditioners and 90 natural ventilation air conditioners by the end of 2019
• Used green materials for newly constructed data centers and buildings
• Set up rainwater, underground, and condensed cooling water recycling systems for the reuse 
of water resources
• Replaced lamps in the public areas and internal office buildings with environmentally friendly 
LED bulbs
Implement 
Green Energy• Constructed 600.745 kWp of photovoltaic systems by the end of 2019
• Constructed a total capacity of 12.6 kW wind power plan
• Acquired 96 Taiwan Renewable Energy Certificate
Autonomous 
Environmental 
Protection• One and only in the industry of Taiwan: Banqiao IDC passed ISO 14046 certification
• Replaced old vehicles with environmentally friendly ones, and used electric vehicles in trials
• Sponsored the construction of the YouBike station at the corner of Xinyi Road and Hangzhou 
South Road
• Promoted clean homes, energy-saving offices, car-free days, and paperless Office Document 
Automation System (ODAS)
• The Taiwan Energy Conservation Patrol: focus on increasing energy efficiency within small 
and medium enterprises and vulnerable social institutions
• Set waste reduction and recycling goals
Value-Added 
Products and 
Services• One and only in the industry of Taiwan: net-zero emission Syntrend store acquired both 
the EPAs Carbon Label for Services domestically as well as the ISO 14067 and PAS 2060 internationally
• Promoted e-bill with a marketing section
• Electronic invoicing: invoice data were prepared for permanent cloud storage to save material, 
human resources, and receive preferential tax treatment as an incentive and exemption from fines by the government
• iEN smart energy-saving services and promotion of 8 energy-saving products
• Mobile device recycling: recycle bins are available at all service centers in line with the 
promotion of waste recycling
• Green Stores: transform 458 service centers nationwide into “ Green Stores ”
• Collaboration with the Sustainable Alliance for Low-carbon Economy (SALE) to issue the 
Sustainable Partnership (products, services, and organizations) Certificate2019 Environmental Performance
Effectively connecting with internationally prominent sustainability organizations and partners, also connecting the supply chain 
to respond to the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).We invited 100 suppliers to participate in an international platform to submit carbon management information and improve their ability in managing carbon emissions with 
scientific and quantification mechanisms.We were the first telecom company 
to propose the Sustainable Supply 
Chain Initiative”We were the first in the industry 
to join the CDP Supply Chain Project”102 103
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66                  The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Sustainable Supply Chain
Every year Chunghwa Telecom purchases the software, hardware and services necessary for operations from 
international and domestic suppliers. This includes networking and data equipment, cables, marketing, design and waste disposal services. Our enormous purchasing power gives us a profound influence over the supply chain, 
hence the responsibility to guide our suppliers in the fulfillment of their CSR. This is achieved by implementing 
conduct that complies with the international supply chain ESG standards to guide the ICT industry towards sustainability. 
We were the first telecom enterprise in Taiwan to join the CDP Supply Chain Project in 2017 when the industry 
was confronted by the critical issues of global climate change and its effect on corporate development. In 2018, 
we again became the first telecom company to incorporate the ISO 20400 Sustainable Procurement Standard. We strive to establish a better connection to the world on our path towards the development of sustainability. We officially launched “ Sustainable Partner Certification ” mechanism in 2019.
From earlier on we have encouraged suppliers to disclose their carbon emissions and reduce them gradually. We plan to incorporate “low-carbon emissions ” into our tender regulations: only groups with carbon emissions under 
a certain level can participate in our tendering process. Through sustainable planning, supplier evaluation and a green supply chain constructed on a hierarchical management system, we hope to achieve the following goals of sustainability: environmental protection, effective operations and management, robust labor rights, as well as safety and health.
The Chunghwa Telecom suppliers fall into three categories: property, labor and engineering. Apart from professional network communication equipment which is mainly purchased overseas, we buy as much from local suppliers as possible to promote local economic development. The domestic procurement percentage was 95% in 2019. Our target is to reach 96% by 2023.Strategy Management Target 2019 Results
Integrate ESG Principles 
to Chunghwa telecom 
supplier assessment• Complete 100% of “ tier 1 suppliers ” CSR current  
status assessment in 2020• 100% of suppliers com -
pleted the CSR survey questionnaire
Ensure ESG conduct of 
the suppliers complies 
with “Code of Corporate 
Social Responsibility for 
Suppliers of Chunghwa 
Telecom Co., Ltd. ”• Complete 100% of “critical tier 1 suppliers ” 
ESG on-site visits and audits in 2023 • CSR on-site visits and audit 
rate reached 77.02%
Continue communication 
activities to promote 
supplier climate change 
adaptation measures 
and emissions data 
management• Complete 100% of “critical tier 1 suppliers ”  
carbon management knowledge and education 
in 2020 
• Collect information on climate change and 
carbon emission from suppliers at least once a year
• The number of suppliers who respond to 
Chunghwa Telecoms CDP Supply Chain Project questionnaire reaches 200• The first Taiwan telecom 
carrier to participate in 
the CDP Supply Chain Project
• The suppliers response 
rate to the questionnaire 
was 67%Supply Chain ESG Management Strategy
ItemNumber 
of 
SuppliersAccounted 
Percentage of 
Turnover 
Tier 1 Suppliers 1,573 98.11%
Critical tier 1 suppliers 133 77.97%
Critical non-tier 1 suppliers 28 -1. Tier 1 suppliers are those that provide products or services directly to  Chunghwa Telecom with an annual procurement of ≧ NT$ 100 thousand.
2. Critical tier 1 suppliers are those that provide products or services directly to Chunghwa Telecom with an annual pro -
curement of ≧ NT$ 50 million.
3. Critical non-tier 1 suppliers are those that provide critical products and  
services to CHT tier 1 suppliers, but are not CHT tier 1 suppliers.Suppliers Analysis
CSR On-Site Audits and Capacity Promotion
To promote awareness of CSR and ESG management in supply chain partners, SGS-Taiwan has been granted to tier 1 
supplier on-site audits since 2010 in accordance with ESG principles of supply chain of Chunghwa Telecom. In 2019, we increased the number of suppliers for second-party audit to 20 with an additional review process. We commit ourselves 
to 100% completion of ESG second-party audit for our key tier 1 suppliers by 2023. To make sure all our supply chain 
partners will be in compliance with ESG management requirements, our goal is to complete the sustainability rating of 140 suppliers and issue the certification mark by 2025.
CHT Management Indicator Method Ratio
Supplier ESG auditing ratio per year • Occupational health and safety on-site   
audits / engineering and cable audits
• Second-party audit by the SGS-Taiwan
• Critical non-tier-1 suppliers audits77.02%
Percentage of suppliers assessed in 
ESG in the last 3 years22.98%Chunghwa Telecom upholds its company motto and its mission as a Digital Economy Motivator and a Creative 
Industry Pilot, formally adopting the ISO 20400 Sustainable Procurement Standard. We officially launched “CHT Sustainable Partner Certification” mechanism in 2019.
We examine suppliers by SGS second party audit results as well as their type and level of importance, and rate them 
as 4 tiers of “Gold, Silver, Bronze and Participation” accordingly. If a supplier fails to pass the certification process, it is granted a limited period of time to implement corrective measures. Rated suppliers shall receive a mark that 
corresponds to their rating, and an excellent mark will be seen as a favorable term when submitting a tender.
We hope to compile a “Chunghwa Telecom Sustainable Supply Chain” list through evaluation, training, audit and 
certification; we ’d also like to lead our suppliers toward a sustainable future, improve the sustainability of telecom 
companies, business, and society as a whole, as well as keep abreast with the international trends of low-carbon economy.CHT’s Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative –  
Sustainable Partner Certification 
104 105
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66                  The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Item Description2019 
Goal2019 
Outcome2020 
Goal
Completion of Online 
Supplier CSR Survey Suppliers with a procurement amount of 
NT$5 million or above is liable to fill out the “Supplier CSR Survey ” that covers items of 
corporate ethics, labor rights, environmental management, and occupational safety and health. 90% 100% 95%
Procurement staff 
that received 
CSR-related training It is to ensure all CHT procurement staff understand and execute faithfully the  
“Code of Corporate Social Responsibility for 
Suppliers of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. ”100% 100% 100%
Supplier contracts 
containing
CSR-related terms Suppliers are explicitly required to abide by the “Code of Corporate Social Responsibility 
for Suppliers of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. ” 
in their procurement contracts.100% 100% 100%
"CSR self-assessment 
form for suppliers" 
included in the 
documentation 
necessary in the 
tendering processTendering documentation stipulates that all bidders to fill out “CSR self-assessment 
form for suppliers ”; additional elaboration 
on improvement is required in the event of breach of laws or regulations by suppliers.100% 100% 100%
Suppliers without 
violations against
environmental 
protection lawsThe environmental management status by suppliers is captured via online question -
naires.100% 100 % 100%
Supplier CSR 
second-party auditThrough second-party audit, key suppliers are ensured free from environmental and human right risks such as forced labor.100% 100% 100%
Audits on civil 
engineering/cable 
contractorsA total of 191 audits were carried out on 74 contractors. As of the end of 2019, 34 suppliers were found with incidents of violation and the fines amounted to NT$712 thousand.
On-site safety and 
health inspectionsOccupational safety and health officers under the Northern and Southern Taiwan Business Groups and the Mobile Business Group conduct at least three on-site safety and health inspections per week. Upon discovery of non-conformities, 
relevant departments will be notified for corrective action tracking. A total of 22,734 
inspections were conducted on 1,044 contractors in 2019.Overview of the Supply Chain ESG Management ResultsThe first Taiwan telecom carrier to participate in the CDP Supply Chain Project 
Connecting Low-Carbon Supply Chain
After “The Paris Agreement ” took effect, we entered an age of low-carbon economy. Chunghwa Telecom is a carrier in 
the information and communications industry, and this is a crucial issue of great urgency. We need to understand and 
respond to the impact of climate change and plan appropriate response strategies and actions at once. 
In 2017, CHT first joined the “Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain Project.” We are promoting an understanding 
of climate change among our suppliers and will make every effort to increase their efficiency in carbon management. CHT is going to put an encouragement mechanism in place that will help suppliers with the research and development of products and services that have less impact on climate and environment. Our three goals for the supply chain carbon 
management are:
Abstract of the Results of Chunghwa Telecom’s 
2019 “CDP Supply Chain Project”
of suppliers responded 
to Chunghwa Telecom s 
questionnaire
（70% globally）67 % Chunghwa Telecom s supply 
chain reduced carbon 
emissions 
around 2,330 thousand t-CO 2e
The Achievements of CHT’s 2019 Supplier Energy Conservation Project
Types of ProjectsThe amount of Carbon Emission 
Reduced (t-CO 2e)Estimated Amount of 
Money Saved Each Year (USD)
Energy efficiency: construction material 23 2,198
Energy efficiency: construction service 35,571 8,644,100
Energy efficiency: manufacturing process 61,307 15,649,137
Establishment/installation of 
a low-carbon energy source15,269 266,370
Procurement of low-carbon energy 2,171,799 1,133,764
Reduction of carbon emissions during 
the manufacturing process30,561 163,207
Others 16,071 1,631,342
Total 2,330,601 27,490,118of supplies incorporated 
climate change into long-term 
business strategic planning 
（on average 81% globally）63 % of suppliers have taken 
energy-saving and carbon 
reduction measures57 % 
of suppliers have established 
procedures for evaluating 
climate-related risks69 % 
of suppliers have set emission 
reduction goals63 % Collect  
greenhouse 
gas emission 
information Communicate and 
encourage changes  in the behavior of 
suppliersIncrease supplier 
awareness and knowledge of 
climate change Goal 1 Goal 2 Goal 3106 107
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66                  The Green Corporation Pioneer 92            The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Mutual Benefits with Business Partners
We published “Code of Corporate Social Responsibility 
for Suppliers of Chunghwa Telecom Co Ltd” in 2011, and it clearly outlines the Company s expectations in terms of 
“business, ethics, labor, environment safety and health.” The guidelines apply to all suppliers that provide products or services to Chunghwa Telecom or its subsidiaries or joint ventures, and extend to other participants of the supply 
chain to which the supplier is directly or indirectly related. 
We hope that suppliers will commit to our values and take more proactive steps towards maintaining a sustainable business ecosphere. 
CHT shares resources with suppliers to help them develop 
R&D capabilities and future technologies. We also devote 
ourselves to the creation of a friendly and innovative environment. We engage suppliers in R&D projects, reward their contributions, and make arrangements for the 
transfer of acquired technology and licenses fairly. Regarding hardware, we continue to support the development of 
telecom facilities and testing environments; in terms of software, we utilize open platforms to share our benefits with suppliers.Type Description
Rewards 
top-performing 
suppliersTo reward top-performing suppliers, Chunghwa Telecom conducted a trial in southern Taiwan, offering qualified suppliers the privilege of “tender bond waiver when submitting 
tenders, as well as a reduction of the performance bond to 5% of the value of the contract 
won. ” This was an attempt to exert influence as an industry leader and bring more attention 
to corporate social responsibility.
Training of 
professional skillsOur Telecom Training Institute has been providing suppliers with relevant training and 
certification courses to satisfy their requirements. Some of the popular courses include: cabling contractor certification, telecom line construction quality assurance certification, 
and fiber optic contractor training. In 2019, the institute organized 35 classes and trained 
636 workers; 360 of whom had obtained certification.
Supply Chain Sustainable Low-Carbon Management
• Announced the “ Code of Corporate Social Responsibility 
for Suppliers of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. ”
• Started holding “ CSR Supplier Conference ” annually 
and the publication of the analysis results of supplier CSR compliance.Required that suppliers with purchase amounts of more than NT$ 5 million have to 
complete the “Supply CSR Status 
Questionnaire”
• Formal incorporation of the ISO 20400 Sustainable Procurement Standard
• Collaborated with the Sustainable Alliance for Low-carbon Economy 
(SALE) to classify sustainable products and services and incorporated “
Sustainable Partner ” assessment mechanism, which consists of four tiers: 
Gold, Silver, Bronze and Participation. We were the first telecom company in Taiwan to implement Sustainable Partner Certification• Became the first telecom service provider to implement the  
“Supply Chain CSR Audit and Assistance ” 
• Stipulated the “ Chunghwa Telecom s Operating Guidelines for 
Qualifying Material Suppliers ” to manage the implementation of 
supplier CSR and ethical business practice
• Continued to organize “ Supplier Sustainable Environmental Visits ” and participate in the “ CDP Supply Chain Project ” 
• Continued to carry out “ CSR second party audit ” on 20  key suppliers
• Officially launched the “ sustainable partner certification – sustainable products and services rating ” system  
as well as recognized and awarded 10  outstanding suppliers “ Gold-tier Certificates” during CSR Supplier Conference2011
Commissioned SGS-Taiwan, a third-party inspection institution, to launch the
 
“Suppliers CSR second party audit ”Organized the first “Sustainable Environmental Visit”Established the “Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. Procurement Grievance Procedures” to give suppliers the means to raise complaints regarding Chunghwa Telecom purchasing activities in an open and transparent 
purchasing environment
Formally announced the 
CDP Supply Chain Project membership and became 
the first domestic telecom 
carrier to participate on the international platform.2014 2016 2015
20172012
2018 20192013Invited critical suppliers to reply  to 
the “Basic Status Survey on CSR for Suppliers” and held 
first “CSR 
Supplier Social Event” to learn about 
supplier CSR compliancePublished “Suppliers Environment and Human Right Guidelines
” which asked 
suppliers to follow labor and environment regulationsFormulated “Basic Status Survey on CSR for Suppliers” and formally started “supply chain 
CSR management” with CSR 
committee's approval2008 2009 2010108 109
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92                   The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Digital Good Neighbors:  
89 locations•  Minimize the digital divide and create digital opportunities
•  The LBG assessment of investment in the community
•  Social Return on Investment (SROI) calculation
•  5I SDGs digital  
inclusion initiative
•  Telecom universal serviceS
AM
•  I Helping - Training volunteers for the visually impaired
•  Corporate volunteer action
•  “5I SDGs ”  strategies and goals
Social investment: NT$ 760,701 thousand 
Telecom subsidy for underprivileged 
groups: NT$ 172,682 thousand R
T
IThe SDGs CHT contributes to in this section: 4 , 8 , 10 , 11
CHT
Chunghwa Telecom “5I SDGs” Initiative
As the pilot of CSR, Chunghwa Telecom has developed its core competence to positively minimize the digital divide and devote itself to the creation of digital opportunities. Since 2015, we have chosen to connect with the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. Through real action, we have demonstrated our 
determination to develop and implement global sustainability.
On the basis of complete digital inclusion strategy and bridging our years of experience in social inclusion, we 
promoted the “5I SDGs ” initiative. The “5I” in the initiative, apart from being a homonym to the phrase “I Love ” 
in Chinese, the “I” here also suggests “to achieve the SDGs via “ICT” that effectively connects the SDGs with the 
objectives of the DIGI+ locally. By expanding partnerships in collaboration with NPO/NGO, supporting the sharing of knowledge and technology resources, creating a connection between the underprivileged and other diverse groups in this digital era, and realizing a win-win situation for digital human rights and an innovative economy, technology allows us to link to the good cycle.CHTs “5I SDGs ” initiative: “I Helping, I Sharing, I Learning, I Technology and I Protecting, ” as the first real initiative 
in Taiwan that connects Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with the “Digital Country Innovative Economy 
Development Program ” (DIGI＋) from the Executive Yuan. The goals of the “5I SDGs ” are:
Embrace the world from Taiwan, officially responding and implementing the   
UN SDGsRespond to the objectives of  the DIGI+ of the Executive Yuan, widening the scope of digital  
inclusion and ensuring Information 
Equality in the networked digital eraLeverage the core functions, connect expertise across branches and corporate volunteer resources, and work with 
professional communities to deepen the 
impacts of socially inclusive actions.1 2 3•  Digital Good Neighbors
•  “Read with You ”－ 
Community Network Tutoring
GRI
GRI
VideosThe Social
Value GuideStrategy
Management
Action
Response
Target
IndicatorMid-Term and Long-Term:
•  Social investment will reach 1% of revenues by 2025 
•  To support the installation of access points for large-
scale national festivals or sporting events that provide 
10 million tourists with a high-quality internet service 
every year 
•  The Chunghwa Telecom Foundation funds NT$ 36 million in 
the creation of digital opportunities in local communitiesShort-Term:
•  Effort to make 
telecom services 
more accessible continually 
•  Adjust the Digital 
Good Neighbors sites resiliently110 111
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92                   The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
As the substantial re -
sponse to the target of  
“reduce marine debris ” in 
the SDG 14 and to avoid 
marine creatures dying from ingestion of plastic debris and reduce the envi -
ronmental impact caused by plastic wastes, we or -
ganized 4 coastal cleanup activities in New Taipei City, Taichung, Taitung, 
and Changhua in 2019 with 
an attendance of 297 and a total of 7,350 kgs of debris removed.
The coastal cleanup activities fully leveraged the core competence of Chunghwa Telecom in “connection. ” Led by the 
top executives, Chunghwa Telecom also rallied the corporate volunteers throughout the branches in Taiwan to clean up coasts and produce outcome statistics as a response to and in compliance with the international Coastal Cleanup 
(ICC) Operation Guidelines. 
In addition, to infuse fun in education, the activities were organized in a form of eco-tourism manner. Through 
the 3-phase procedures of “basic training, environmental education, and actions in the field, ” led by trained 
volunteers and specialist eco guides, the corporate volunteers took their eco-chopsticks, cups, bowls, bottles, and handkerchiefs with them and carried out eco-friendly conducts that left no waste behind. Thus, the knowledge and idea of environmental sustainability took root deeply in each and every participants DNA. Meanwhile, to ensure the safety of all participants, health-manager corporate volunteer was invited to join the company to fully implement the protection of employees safety and health. In 2019, we utilized our technology strength and recruited several professional corporate volunteers as instructors to mentor about 60 grandpas and grandmas in the Sulfur Valley 
community in Beitou on how to use smartphones, including 
how to use LINE, download and use apps, play music, take photos, and create albums for senior citizens to enjoy the convenience and fun a digital life can bring. We and Resource Center for the Visually Impaired of Tamkang University launched the first “Integrated Solution of In-depth Museum 
Guided Tour for the Visually Impaired ” in Taiwan in 2019. 30 visually-
impaired individuals were invited to “look around ” in the National 
Museum of Marine Science and Technology in Keelung via tactile aids along with audio introduction. Hence, we lived up to the spirit of the Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) and 
proactively implemented cultural equality.
Through the innovative visually-impaired friendly voice-based personal 
assistance app, the visually-impaired individuals could access relevant information of the museum prior to their departure. During the tour on site, they could learn more detailed information about the exhibits via 
push message. Together with the audio guide, they embarked on the 
journey to explore the mysteries of ocean with auditory, tactile, and olfactory senses combined.  
In this activity, we called on corporate volunteers to join forces in 
helping the visually-impaired individuals with professional blind aid 
courses prior to the tour to ensure our service quality and the fulfilment 
of “I Helping ” and “ I Sharing ” initiative!I Helping + I Learning – 
Helping the visually-impaired to see museum
I Technology – Corporate volunteer activity封面寫程式？
I Protecting – Coastal cleanup campaign that saves the planet with actions
Video
VideoI Technology
Corporate Volunteer Technology Education Team
Core Competence Utilize digital technology to 
promote digital equality
Action Plan Cellphone expert program 
in service center1. Cultivate 2,000 technology 
education volunteers
2. Technology education services  for over 5 million1. 培育2,000 名科技教學志工
2. 科技教學服務達 500萬 人次
UN SDGs 2030 Goals
Action Plan • Reduce marine debris
• Energy-saving volunteeringI Protecting
Green Service Team
Save energy and reduce carbon 
emission to treasure Earth with  green actionsCorporate Volunteer
Core Competence
1. Over 10 million t-CO 2e carbon emission 
of suppliers
2. Help reduce energy and carbon emissions   
of communities over 1 million t-CO 2e
3. Cleaning the marine debris for over 100 t2030 Goals UN SDGs
I Helping
Corporate Volunteer
Core Competence
Action PlanUN SDGs 2030 Goals Visually-impaired Service Team
Assist the visually-impaired in 
bridging to digital technology and services
• Beacon case
• Blind aid courses1. Benefits over 60,000  visually 
impaired people in Taiwan
2. Helping in lives and entertainment of over 
200 thousand visually 
impaired people
I Learning
Love in Learning Team
Bridging the rural-urban gap 
and flip education in rural areas
• Read with You
• Foundations projects1. Over 4,000  university students as 
tutors
2. Schoolchildren who have been tutored for over 
80,000 hours 
Corporate Volunteer
Core Competence
Action PlanUN SDGs 2030 Goals
I Sharing
Community Service Team
Promote local services as a friendly 
significant neighbor1. Over 50,000 Corporate Volunteer 
Services
2. Over 3 million communities 
stakeholders being helpedTaiwan telecom digital collection 
guided tour
Corporate Volunteer
Core Competence
Action PlanUN SDGs 2030 Goals112 113
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92                   The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
 Description of CHT’s responses to the UN SDGs
• To bridge the gap of communication and information quality between the rural and 
urban areas, we go into the mountains and offshore islands to construct 4G cell sites. 
The 4G coverage throughout the 747 rural villages/boroughs in Taiwan is 99%.
• In response to the objectives of “Digital Nation & Innovative Economy Development 
Program ” and “Forward-looking Infrastructure Development Program - Digital 
Infrastructure, ” actions are taken as the testimony to CHT's capacity in social inclusiveness.
• Over NT$440 million is allocated to construction and maintenance of universal 
telecommunication service to realize “4G in every town and village ” and “100% coverage 
in towns and villages ” in an endeavor to fulfill the visions of “promote social innovation 
and information equality ” and “ realize the win-win of digital human rights and innovative 
economy. ”
• Responding to SDG 1 ensures that all men and women, the poor and the vulnerable, have equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to basic services.
• CHT develops AI agricultural analysis model. Agricultural sensors are deployed catered to the needs of farmland to collect data of growth environment and weather 
for compilation and analysis to produce forecast of the farmland s conditions in the 
following days. Also, the data is uploaded to a smart agriculture cloud platform via  
NB-IoT technology, with which farmers can arrange their farming schedule accordingly.
•  Through NB-IoT technology, technology is introduced to agriculture, analyzing key 
environmental monitoring parameters of produce. The optimum environment for 
produce s growth is built and risks of agricultural disaster are reduced via forecast of the 
future tendency of data changes, which facilitate the improvement of yield and quality of produce and achieve the goal of a smart quality agriculture.
•	As the first telecom service provider that introduced OHSAS 18001 and TOSHMS as well 
as obtained certification of “ISO 45001 – occupational health and safety management 
systems, ” CHT implements the management of its employees safety and health in an “
institutionalized ” and “ systematic ” manner.
•	Health checkup for employees is conducted annually, together with Employee Assistance Programs, health lectures, hiking, tours, and sports competition for employees; 
professional medical doctors and health managers are invited to offer health advisory to employees, so as to build well-rounded caring measures for employees.
•	The Mobile management tool “eSafe Wizard ” app for occupational safety and health 
developed to allow personnel to manage the operation on-site via cellphone introduces cloud, paperless, real-time, and effectiveness into the safety and health management.
•	“Read with You ” Network tutoring program has been promoted joint forces with Fu Jen 
Catholic University since 2009, assisting disadvantaged students in primary and middle school students in the rural areas in their schoolwork while keeping the students company for their psychological need for companionship, which substantially facilitate school children in the rural areas in overcoming rural-urban gap and flipping their lives.
•	“CHT Digital Good Neighbor ” program executed for over a decade set up digital centers in 
89 towns and villages across the country to promote digital applications joint forces with CHT, CHT Foundation, and local organizations and teams.
•	CHTs ICT expertise is fully leveraged to assist local organizations in rural areas or in need 
to establish a stable network environment and ensure the rights to digital technology in 
local community.
・ We value right to work and gender equality; the pay to female employees, management 
level or not, is equal to that of a male employee.
・ “Directions for Chunghwa Telecom Sexual Harassment Prevention and Grievance Management
” has been stipulated to put the Act of Gender Equality in Employment into practice.
・ “Appeal Review Committee ” has been established to handle appeals concerning 
discrimination against employees and other inappropriate conducts. There are 5 members 
on the committee, including 3 female members, which is over a half of the seats. Description of CHT’s responses to the UN SDGs
・ Our water usage is primarily domestic purpose; apart from water for washing, water for 
cooling air-conditioning accounts for the majority of water usage.
・ The water resource management nationwide is included in the EARTH system of CHT's own device, as the innovative “water bill management ” in the system can achieve a centralized 
management of water bills and water usage throughout the branches in Taiwan with ease 
that not only reduces the waste of water bill printing, but also analyzes and controls the consumption of water resource via big data.
・ In 2019, the water footprint inventory for the IDC at Banqiao, the eco-friendliest IDC in the 
Greater China region, was promoted, introducing ISO 14046 water footprint standard and 
having obtained the assurance statement upon passing the SGS certification.
・  Through the water footprint inventory of the IDC, the water usage and water pollution 
throughout the life cycle of the IDC are taken into consideration to identify the 
environmental risks concerning water resource and as the critical reference to the planning for water management policy and measures in the future.
・ Renewable energy has been actively developed to bridge ourselves to green energy. As 
of the end of 2019, CHT has installed 62 solar PV systems throughout Taiwan with a total 
capacity of 600.745 kWp.
・ Marching into the green energy industry, the solar power stations we assisted in building 
have generated power over 150 MW. CHT was contracted with the construction of Taipowers  
solar power plant at Zhangbin Industrial Park, which has supplied electricity in full capacity 
of 100 MW by the end of 2019.
・ There are also construction projects from a subsidiary of Taiwan Cement and Taipower 
as well. The subsidiary of T aiwan Cement commissioned Chunghwa T elecom for the 
construction of solar power plant with a capacity of 12 MW, which makes it the largest construction project of solar power plant commissioned by the private sector.
・ CHT is the only telecom carrier with a labor union established and a collective bargaining 
agreement with it. The agreement covers issues pertaining to layoff, reward/punishment, 
promotion, health and safety, etc. In 2019, the employees covered by the agreement reached 99%. Meanwhile, a labor director is appointed to sit on the Board of Directors to voice the needs of employees to the top level.
・ Complete education, reasonable remuneration, and a dignified environment allow our 
employees to commit themselves at work while reducing the disturbance in mind owing to 
a high turnover rate.
・ In 2011, EYE Social Innovative Call Center was established and the first “comprehensive 
solution ” in Taiwan was released, training the visually-impaired individuals into call center 
personnel and offering work opportunities.
・ High-speed broadband network is deployed continuously to improve the network speed 
for clients; ultra-speed broadband network of 1Gbps is being deployed pursuant to the 
DIGI+ of the Executive Yuan, which is expected to reach a 90% coverage by 2020 to meet the demands from the video streaming services in the age of digital convergence. 
・ Upholding the spirit of digital equality, we are actively deploying mobile network in rural 
areas and improving network infrastructure and communication coverage in the rural 
areas in addition to being the No. 1 in the number of cell sites both across Taiwan and of counties/cities deployed; the mobile broadband coverage in the rural areas is above 90%.
114 115
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92                   The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
 Description of CHT’s responses to the UN SDGs
・ The life in the sea at Wanghaixiang in Keelung was once covered by discarded fishnet 
and debris; hence, the Keelung City Government set up the “Wanghaixiang Chaojing Bay 
Resource Conservation Area.” 
・ In the aforementioned area, fishing is prohibited; species are restored; debris are 
removed; citizens are encouraged to get close to the ocean and treat ocean with respect; 
and that ecotourism is developed to usher industrial transition opportunities into the local community.
・ CHT Foundation took Keelung as the base for “Little Environmental Directors” course 
as a response to Earth Day; the environmental protection course combined with 
documentary course, bestowing in-depth knowledge of the rich marine and ecological resources at home upon the participants.
• We worked with Dr. Jane Goodall in 2006 and formed an alliance to participate and care 
for environmental education and conservation issues and sponsored the Jane Goodall 
Institute in planning, producing, and publishing the “Roots & Shoots Environmental 
Education Newsletter for Children.”
•  “Sustainable Environmental Education” initiative, firstly created in 2016, takes 100 supplier 
partners to the environmental education venue to engage “Sustainable Environmental 
Education” training on a yearly basis.
•  As of 2019, over 300 supplier partners in total have participated in the initiative.
•	 To ensure that all employees engage operation activities with the highest ethical 
standards, we have stipulated “Ethical Corporate Management Best Practice Principles ”,  
“Code of Ethics ”, and “ Procedures for Ethical Management and Guidelines for Conduct ” to lay 
out the required ethics and responsibilities when employees engage business conducts 
while comprehensively promote and deepen the corporate culture of ethics and integrity.
•	“Guidelines for Personnel Evaluation ” and “Standards Governing the Administrative 
Rewards and Discipline of Chunghwa Telecom Personnel ” have been stipulated for 
personnel evaluation; rewards and disciplines are to be given in a timely manner pursuant to the regulations upon deeds worthy of rewards and conducts to be disciplined.
•	 Safe and rigorous whistleblowing mechanism is established; the employee grievance 
hotline is made available in the “ Employee Section ” on the EIP .
•	We connect organizations, global and local, with the corporate resources and core competences to serve specific stakeholders, stakeholders in the rural areas, and 
disadvantaged stakeholders, so as to create a digitally inclusive society.
•	Since 1988, we have been working with the Center of Resources for Visual Impairment of 
Tamkang University and dedicating ourselves to aiding the visually-impaired with telecom 
technologies and development of a voice-based assistance app for the convenience of their lives.
•	Since 2009, we have been promoting “Read with You ” network tutoring for over a decade 
joint forces with Fu Jen Catholic University, replacing roads with networks to offer schoolchildren in rural areas a hand on their schoolwork.
•	Since 2015, working with the NTU Hackathon and establishing the network environment 
in the venue for the participants to retrieve data to produce innovative solutions.
•	With a long-term partnership with social enterprises, we set up Children Are Us bakery on 
the premises of CHT, procure good food products from the “BUYNEARBY ” social enterprise, 
and put products of social enterprises including Comfortable and Blueseeds on the CHT 
Employee Purchase Net for sale to help them to expand their channels and promote 
sustainability ideas. Description of CHT’s responses to the UN SDGs
・ We value human right issues (including anti-discrimination, gender equality, freedom of 
association, collective bargaining, child labor, forced and coerced labor, as well as rights 
of the indigenous peoples), proactively safeguard the values of human rights, respond to the core spirits of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Convention, and forbid any form of discrimination.
・ We prohibit forced labor and use of child labor, responding to UNs incorporation of the 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights into domestic legislation; human right awareness is strengthened to allow a respectful and fair treatment to any stakeholder.
・  Regarding the issue of information equality, we joined the World Conference on 
International Telecommunications, abide by the provisions of the International 
Telecommunication Regulations, ensure a free flow of information globally, make transparent the information with regard to international roaming service charges and competitions, support the telecommunication development in the developing countries, 
provide the physical-challenged individuals convenient access to telecommunication 
services, and protect the freedom of speech and other rights of the general public over the telecommunication network.
・  Following the development of IoT, 5G, big data analysis, and AI, as the “Leader in Smart 
Living and Agent of Digital Economy Empowerment, ” we assist Taiwan in constructing 
smart sustainable cities via smart solutions.
・ Utilization of “Intelligent Operation Center ” (IOC) on the foundation of technologies 
such as IoT is at the core of a smart city.
・ Local governments can integrate individual systems of different departments, collect and 
analyze municipal information, present it in an intelligent, systematic, and visual fashion, 
gain information of appeals from citizens, air quality, fire disasters, traffic safety, and medical resources, and construct sustainable, safe, health cities with the IOC platform.
・ The first edition of CSR report was released in 2007 and has been disclosing the non-
financial information of the corporation for 13 years consecutively.
・ A green procurement strategy is fully implemented with over NT$1.02 billion of green procurement amount in 2019 and the green procurement amount accounting for 5% in 
the total procurement amount every year.
・ We took the initiative to take “supplier CSR management actions ” in 2008, which made 
us the first telecom carrier that promotes CSR management for supply chain in Taiwan.
・  From Code of Corporate Social Responsibility to questionnaire survey, annual CSR 
Supplier Conference, sustainability education, and on-site audits of over 100 suppliers 
in cooperation with the SGS, we improve the sustainability capacity of our supplier partners step by step.
・ Through accumulation of a decade, apart from introduction of ISO 20400 sustainable 
procurement guidance, “sustainable rating label ” was implemented in 2019, realizing 
the idea of sustainability in our products and services while maximizing the influence of 
procurement to create new green business opportunities.
・ The dedicated “Environmental Sustainability Task Force ” has been established under the 
CSR Committee, tasked with stipulation of environmental sustainable development goals and incorporation of issues of carbon management in the operation plan.
・ In 2008, we introduced ISO 14064-1 greenhouse gases management system to inventory 
the carbon emissions with over 1,800 buildings and cell sites and pass the SGS 
certification each year.
・ We further connect to the external supply chains to promote sustainable, low-
carbon supply chain practices and develop green products and services. Since 2016, 
approximately 100 supplier partners are led to environmental education venue to engage carbon management education to elevate their environmental protection awareness every year.
・ We joined the CDP in 2018, promote whole supply chain carbon management actions, and 
are the first telecom carrier in Taiwan that signed and responded to the initiative of Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).116 117
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92                   The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation 
“Click Taiwan ”• The 11th Click Taiwan: videos totaling 60 school students 
went deep into 27  different villages 
PC education 
Network tutoring• Read with You “ Community Network Tutoring ” has tutored 
near 2,875  students over 11 years and the tutorial hours 
has now reached 91,187  
• iPhone usage training courses for the visually impaired were 
regularly held in support of the visually impaired assistance 
plan
The CHT Digital  
Innovative 
Application Series• The CHT Digital Innovative Application Series has been 
running for 12 years to promote digital development in 
Taiwan 
Assistance application 
development /  
Employment• Development of accessible assistance – the Assistance 
App for the Visually Impaired has been downloaded  
54,270  times since 2013
• We established the EYE Social Innovative Call Center 
where the visually impaired can become paid service 
personnel and earn their own living
360 Degree of Digital Inclusion Actions
Chunghwa Telecom focuses its social investment in “minimizing the digital divide ” and the “creating of digital 
opportunities, ” given the specific nature and the core competence of information and communication in the ICT 
industry. We also spare no effort in the advocacy of “corporate volunteers ” to participate in local community 
services, and proactively assist the communities in creating digital opportunities. We promote all aspects of digital inclusion using 360-degree vision. 
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation
Digital Good Neighbors • The Digital Good Neighbors was located in 89  places 
The annual investment of 
Telecom universal service  
is approximately  
4.4 hundred million• Telephone services for more than 230,000  homes in 86  rural 
communities in Taiwan 
• Data communication service for more than 120,000  
households 
• Data connection service for more than 600 high schools, 
primary schools, and public libraries.
• More than 41,000 public telephones installed across 22 
counties/cities
Preferential subsidies for 
the disadvantaged groups• Care for  62,387 households of the disadvantaged 
groups, with subsidies amounting to NT$ 172,682  
thousand
Equipment supports for major 
events• Broadband circuit, MOD platform promotion, mobile base 
station vehicles, SMS, Wi-Fi AP , temporary data circuit
• The coverage rate of the 12Mbps popularization broadband service is over 97.6 %Chunghwa Telecom Digital Inclusion Strategy
Social Investment Statistics for 2019Social Investment Management
Chunghwa Telecom refers to the community investment evaluation mechanism of the LBG (London Benchmark 
Group), to conduct evaluations on the possible community benefits and business benefits before an investment is made. The quantification of the contribution of social investment allows us to make reasonable resources allocation 
while avoiding repetition. It helps the decision-making and promotion of charities as well as future sponsorship.Chunghwa Telecom cares for the disadvantaged 
children in rural areas and aims to utilize social resources to make amend to the educational 
deficiency and improvement school education 
efficacy. The National Science and Technology 
Museum in Kaohsiung and the Taiwan Telecom 
Industry Development Association have been working together with CHT since 2011, organizing two informative trips to the 
National Science and Technology Museum 
for the disadvantaged students in rural areas from the schools and children/juvenile social welfare groups located in the rural areas of the 
southern region. It presents opportunities of 
popular science education and realization of “timely fun in learning. ” As of 2019, a total of 
5,214 students in rural areas have paid the visit with a sponsoring amount up to NT$4.2 million.Telecom Trip to Realize Schoolchildren’s DreamsCreate Digital Opportunities Minimize the Digital Divide
Hours of 
Corporate 
Volunteer Services
Percentage of 
Revenue21,375 hours
0.37 %
VideoIn 2019, Chunghwa Telecom established 7 sites for accessibility to telecom services in long-term support of a government initiative to protect fundamental rights to communications.
Cash Donations NT$ 216,189  thousand
Management 
ExpendituresNT$ 10,834  thousand
Product or Service 
DonationsNT$ 527,543  thousand
Corporate Volunteer 
ServicesNT$ 6,135 thousand
Total NT$ 760,701 thousand118 119
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92                   The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Minimizing the Digital Divide
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation was founded in 
2006. Through long-term cultivation of our core competence to communities, tribes, urban fringe, 
and areas with relatively lack of resources, the 
Foundation is a resource platform for connecting and arranging the “good ” material, and further 
share to needed locations. It has become the 
strength that supports and assists the advancement 
of these local areas.
Course Series I: “Little Environmental Directors” eco-actions with digital documentaries
Participants:  Students of elementary to junior high levels
Course Highlight: With digital documentary and environmental education combined, 
students are encouraged to open up their senses in the process of field researches and 
practices to gain new knowledge of their hometown.Course Series II:  Senior Citizens to play and learn on cellphones
Participants:  Senior citizens
Course Highlight: With life and fun at the core, senior citizens are encouraged to share their 
life experiences, acquire new knowledge, and step out from their homes to have more interpersonal interactions and fun in their lives.
The digital good neighbors bases are mostly situated in villages where children and senior citizens account for the 
majority. To care for the target audience at different ages, “digital good neighbors for senior citizens to play and 
learn ” app course was organized specifically for senior citizens in 2019. According to the digital divide survey by the 
press, senior citizens at age 50-69 were relatively more interested in courses on healthcare, social networking, and information. Therefore, the course was designed to cater to the interests of these students while in combination with the convenient software promoted by local governments to encourage the students to use digital technologies for more convenience in life.
The course series were made available to 5 digital good neighbor bases, including Sansia Revival Lutheran 
Church, DongHouSai Taiwan Presbyterian Church in Chiayi, YongYang Community in Taoyuan, LiMing Community Development Association in Pingtung, and ChiShan Community Development Association in Pingtung. They may be 
located either in the outskirts of cities or in the villages. Through guidance by the lecturers and TAs, these mature 
citizens were finally given a chance to learn about the digital devices in their hands and to understand the language spoken by their grandchildren. The once-in-a-week course and interaction allowed more topics for conversation and better bonds among the members in the communities. As a result, digitalization became more than just tools, 
but an alternative companion for the elderly.
For more videos, please refer to the webpageOn the basis of “make good use of computer for a good cause, ” in 2019, we keep 
on holding ”Little Environmental Directors ” video-making courses. Focusing 
on the rich marine culture and eagle biology of Keelung in the northern Taiwan, together with the Keelung City Government, Keelung City Marine Education 
Advisory Group, and local teachers and students, we organized “Little 
Environmental Directors: cherish the seashore of Keelung ” 
course, inviting 
renown documentary director to guide the little directors at the elementary and junior high levels to document environmental protection issues digitally 
and recount the stories of their hometown from the perspective of children.
The course cultivated 30 little directors at age 12 on average, producing 10 
environmental short films. The filmmaking fully demonstrates the creativity and delicate observation of the children. The video reached 20,000 hits 
within merely 2 weeks. In addition, through the regular screening at the 
National Museum of Marine Science and Technology, it allows more tourists visiting Keelung to learn at close the local ecological environment via the lighthearted, fun videos while directing their attention once again to the 
environmental education.“The Digital Good Neighbors” 
Get Close to and Make Good use of Digitalization Chunghwa Telecom Foundation Cultivates and Works with Communities for the Common Good
Chunghwa Telecom and Chunghwa Telecom Foundation have joined hands cultivating communities for 13 years, 
establishing “digital good neighbors ” across Taiwan to bridge the rural-urban gaps in resources, serve as the platform to 
connect resources, offer resources such as community digital learning, youth volunteering, sports/cultural/art activities, 
and local industries promotion, as well as discover moving stories and local industries unique to local communities.
Today, the partnering bases have been set up across all corners of Taiwan Island and offshore islands, covering ethnic 
groups of Minnan, Hakka, indigenous peoples, and the new immigrants. Additional 8 bases of “digital good neighbors ” 
were established in Chiayi County and Keelung City in 2019. With the unity and connection of good neighbors, we expect a 
variety of residents different in ethnicity and ages can all gain opportunities and energy from them while bridging the gap 
between cities and towns/villages in resources.
ab ab120 121
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92                   The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Since 2009, Chunghwa Telecom Foundation accepts applications 
from youth in college with 2 people in a group disregard the gender, department, or age, each year. A total of 25 groups (50 people in total) 
are selected to go to the “Digital Good Neighbors ” 
across Taiwan 
to engage “Click Taiwan” residency program. The students are 
required to have a prior knowledge of the needs in the community, 
combine their expertise, design, and implement services catered 
to the local needs, while documenting the processes in texts and images. In 2019, students from 37 departments across 18 universities carried out services in communities with the respective 
expertise and talents, including the promotion of oral hygiene, art 
painting, English courses, computer and cellphone courses, digital marketing, aromatherapy and rehabilitation, placemaking design, image creation, farming, reading and writing, and community affair assistance, so as to engage communities from diverse angles and 
bridge the urban-rural gap.
In 2019, it further cooperated with the third-party team “5% Design 
Action ” to go into the “Click Taiwan ” communities “Hsichou Chingzai 
Canal Industrial Culture Association in Changhua, ” “LiMing Community 
Pintung, ” and “Gaoshih Village in Pingtung. ” Not only did they mentor 
the university students to utilize their design thinking to produce 
community design proposals, but also exchange new ideas and new 
methods with community partners to revitalize the local communities.
Fuxing Tribe in Hualien
South-Link Health Promotion and Care 
Services Association in Taitung
Kouhu Township Elderly Welfare 
Association in Yunlin
 Mailiao Cultural Association in YunlinNot until I became the farmer bending over in the field at work 
under the sun did I truly appreciate the notion of “each grain is the 
fruit of hardship in the field.” That was my first time stepping 
out of my comfort zone and venturing into an unknown place to 
utilize my strength to bring the beauty of village to everyone. 
That’s really a new landmark in my life.
 「 蹲 點 ． 台 灣 ． 心 南 向 」 ： 新二代的尋根之旅  
參 與 對 象： 數位好厝邊新住民姐妹及其二代 、 台灣大學生  
實 踐 場 域： 新二代的家鄉—越南S
The Foundation has been working in the local communities 
for over a decade, bearing witness of the ample energy the new immigrants have brought to the land of Taiwan. We want 
to extend the spirit of Click Taiwan to these ladies of new 
immigrants. Through the experience with Click Taiwan, it allows the new second generation to understand more about their moms culture of their hometown and at the same time 
understand the advantage of having two different cultural 
backgrounds. We hope to help the new immigrants and their children to integrate into the Taiwanese society, so after holding the “Click Taiwan, Hearty Southbound ” program in 
2018, we continued to organize on the second year.
With digital good neighbors as the target for recruitment, three teams were selected from New Taipei City, Tainan, and Kaohsiung to execute the program. Apart from documentary in 
texts and images, students lived up the spirit of “to serve ” 
and 
taught the elderly in the hometown how to use digital tools, 
so that they might get their memories of hometowns across 
via networks without distance after they were apart.“Click Taiwan” Tapping into the Energy of Youth
2019 “Click Taiwan” Outcome
2019 “Click Taiwan” 
28 communities documentariesI recall the night before departure. I sat on the floor in front 
of the Ark Classroom. The oath we all swore as students in the 
Nursing Department resounded in my mind. I will bring with me the energy charged in Tjuabal and become a better nurse in the 
hospital.
I realized I have plenty. Not just feeling satisfied for what I have, but also realizing what I’m capable of. I’m more powerful, 
courageous, and even full of potential than I thought I was.
I hope by the end of the journey, I could get to appreciate more the land that nurtured me and give back to my homeland. I think 
it’s also the core value critical to Click Taiwan. Only when you are 
truly down to earth, can you embrace the land and listen to the 
voice down there in the local community.
2019 
Social Contribution 
of the FoundationYouth 
Empowerment 4,746,671
Digital Empowerments7,642,808 
Local Empowerment3,473,614  
Social Marketing 5,484,038  
CHT Women’s Basketball Team21,976,834  “Click Taiwan”: To serve and document
Participants:   Youth in college nationwide
Venue: CHT Digital Good Neighbors
“Click Taiwan, Hearty Southbound”: The root-seeking trip for the new second generations
Participants:  the new lady immigrants of digital good neighbor, their second generation, 
and Taiwanese college students
Venue: the hometown of the new second generation—Vietnam
Unit: NT$Reflection from the  
Student in Click TaiwanParticipating122 123
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92                   The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Preferential 
PlanPreferential ContentPreferential 
Amount 
(NT$ thousand)Beneficiaries 
(persons)
Caring Series 
Rate Plan 
(Mobile) • Double communication hours from the original rate 
plan for the visually impaired, hearing impaired and 
speech impaired. 
• 300 free SMS intra-network and 100 free SMS extra-
network for the hearing and speech impaired. The  
“intra-network image telephone ” rate is the same for 
3G customers.653 218
Broadband 
Preferential 
Plan for 
Low-income 
Households • 50% off on 16M/3M, 35M/6M, 60M/20M, 100M/40M, ADSL 2M/64K & ADSL 5M/384K monthly rate.42,349 8,928
4G Mobile Data 
Plan for the 
Disabled• Disabled persons are entitled to an NT$ 100 discounts for limited 399/436/499 plan, NT$ 200 discounts on 
monthly subscriptions when subscribing to the 4G 599 plan and above plus Wi-Fi hotspots for free during the term of the contract.
114,438 44,827
Broadband 
Preferential 
Plan for the 
Disabled • 5% off on HiNet 16M/3M, 35M/6M, 60M/20M and 100M/40M monthly rate. 
• 15% off on ADSL 5M /384K monthly rate. 5% off for other speed rates. 10,468 5,607
MOD Caring 
Project and 
Project for 
the Socially 
Unfortunate• Platform charges: A 50% discount (NT$45 / month) from 
the work completion date.
• Subscribers of the family premium package, family advance package, family advance package B, family 
high-quality package, family special package, family popular package are entitled to 10% discount, and the normal rate after the discount period expires.
• The above projects all apply to the socially unfortunate 
and the caring project has no time limitation, the 
project for the socially unfortunate provides discounts for the first 24 months after the work completion date.4,761
(calculated 
on the basis 
of the 2-year 
preferential 
discount)Average
2,794 / year
Healthy Net 
PlanHiNet Adult Content Gatekeeper protects children from harmful websites such as pornography, violence, suicide, weapons, gambling, and drugs. The service in the first year is rendered to low-income households for free. 
13 13
Welfare Public 
Telephone • Installed 110 cm from the floor in public areas for the convenience of the disabled. 
• The keyboard was designed with embossing on the “5” key for the visually impaired, and a voice 
adjustment function (from 3db to 6db) was provided exclusively for people with hearing aids. 
• A slot for inserting is designed on the side of an IC card for the convenience of the visually 
impaired. 
Message Relay 
Service for 
the Hearing 
and Speech 
Impaired All telephone messages will be translated and faxed to the service hotline 0800 – 080885 (Help 
Me in Chinese homonym). The service personnel will then relay the message in voice and return the message to the hearing and speech impaired caller (up to 80 words for the relay and up to 
30 words for reply). Those who are not hearing and speech impaired may also call the hotline 
(0800-080880) for the relay of messages via fax to the hearing and speech impaired. The service hours are 08:00 to 21:00 daily.Preferential Subsidies for the Disadvantaged Groups The Creation of Digital Opportunities
Chunghwa Telecom has long been subsidizing telecom services for the socially disadvantaged, and assuring their access to basic communications. The following are the main preferential plan and amount in 2019.By utilizing our expertise in telecom technology, we will ensure that everyone shares the advantage of technology despite financial or social standing, or geographical location. In this way we hope to quickly achieve the objective of minimizing the digital divide and creating digital opportunity. In addition to previously described action plans and 
subsidy, different from those of other enterprises, we also contributed resources to developing related products and 
services to meet the needs of the disabled and allow them to realize their right of access to the digital technology and convenient lives. 
During the summer vacation each year, the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation and members on the Chunghwa Telecom Women s 
Basketball Team partake in the basketball summer camp events. 
The Basketball Team members serve as team mentors and 
coaches to offer students rich and solid experience on the camp. Meanwhile, through games and competition, sportsmanship and the spirit and attitude of team player are cultivated for the seeds of 
basketball to take root.
In light of the arrival of the 5G era, elements of technology, art, and 
basketball were fused together specifically in 2019.“Infinite 5G: E-trip of Technology x Art x Basketball ” of three 
days and two nights was organized. Children from Hualien, Taitung, and Pingtung were invited to pay a visit to 
t
he Center of Intelligent Future of Chunghwa Telecom. In addition to getting a taste of the convenience of 5G life could 
bring, the children were arranged to join the art workshop to add an extra art touch besides the tech sense of the trip.
There are more and more “digital good neighbors ” developing 
bit by bit community industries and local tours. To take it 
further to help promote the community industries, we threw 
the first edition of “Life with Good Neighbors Festival ” in 2019. 
The 23 “digital good neighbors ” across all counties and cities 
in Taiwan and 6 performance groups were invited to bring with 
them the local industries and unique performances to meet 
friends in the north and share their stories.
In addition to the assistance to the “digital good neighbors ” in 
expanding their sales into the market in the northern Taiwan, 
the event also presented an opportunity for the workers in the 
industries to meet and communicate with their consumers 
face to face in order to learn about the consumers  preferences 
in products and how to engage a face-to-face marketing. Furthermore, it was also a chance for the workers in the 
industries to learn from one another, which were turned into 
the richest nutrients to the local development.
The Foundation has been creating more marketing platforms 
for community industries, online and offline, in recent years. 
Joint forces with its parent company, they act upon the local economy with the expectation to bring back the youth to their hometown to create more job opportunities and solid development in local communities.
Chunghwa Telecom Womens Basketball Team 
Gives Back to Communities
Life with Good Neighbors Festival – 
promoting rural-urban exchanges and local industrial development124 125
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
 The Creative Industry Pilot 58           The Happiness Value Protector 66            The Green Corporation Pioneer 92                   The Social Value Guide 108    The Digital Economy Motivator 56  
Item Description
GoalBy 2022, we hope to: 
• Assist 2,900 students in the remote areas with network tutoring 
• Accumulate more than 4,500 volunteers to participate in network tutoring
• Accumulate more than 100,000 training hours for tutoring volunteers training
CharacteristicOnline education with one-on-one individual tutoring by university students helps pupils of 
junior high schools and primary schools in the rural villages to enhance their learning and provides equal learning opportunities. 
Method• To realize the spirit of stakeholder engagement, we have cooperated with the Center of 
Care Services for Taiwan Rural Area Education at Fu Jen Catholic University.
• University students helped the cause with one-on-one tutoring to take care of the school children in the rural villages and disaster zones.
• Customized exclusive class supplements to care for the spiritual growth of schoolchildren through companionship, interaction and communication.
ParticipantPingtung Feng-Lin Church, Pingtung Chao Chou Boys Town, the Taitung Kaulahan 
Association, Taitung Chinese Love & Joy Charity Association, Taitung Fukid Tribe, Chiayi Fu Jen High School, Taitung Lanyu High School, Matzu High School, Taitung Luye Library, 
Hualien Yuli Library, Taoyuan Dayuan Catholic Church, and Taoyuan Guanyin Catholic Church
Major Result• University students improve the childrens learning outcomes with one-on-one individual 
tutoring of the school children in rural villages. They also took care of their need for 
personal communication and interaction. 
• More than ten-years efforts by e-Tutor, it has helped several dozen students gain admission 
to national and private universities, including the National Yang Ming University and Taipei 
Medical University. Assistance to remote villages has really reduced the divide between the cities and counties, radically improved the opportunities available to the children and changed their lives. 
 
Note: The data period started from December 2009 to February 2020.Schoolchildren who 
have been Tutored
2,875 personsUniversity 
Students as Tutors
4,460 personsTutorial Hours
91,187 hoursParticipants in Summer 
and Winter Classes
2,812 personsChunghwa Telecom has supported 
education and shown its concern 
for rural villages ever since 2009, in the aftermath of Typhoon Morakot. We extended our services to the 
permanent settlements and newly 
developed communities in the disaster zones. Using visual Internet technology, we delivered educational resources in the form of private tutorship in rural 
villages for the unfortunate. We hope to 
give the children of the next generation a learning environment which is “safe, 
dignified, and hopeful. ”  Community Network Tutoring—“Read with You”
We believe “humanity to be the foundation of technology innovation. ” In 2013, we launched a  
“Voice-based Personal Assistance App ” that was specifically designed for the visually impaired. 
The App incorporates image, voice, reading, and lifestyle functions to assist both visually impaired and elders to face some of their difficulties. By the end of 2019, the App had been 
 
downloaded/updated 54,270 times, with 7,078 logins and 347,987 clicks on average monthly in 2019. It is one of the most convenient and useful personal assistants available.
Assistance Application Development
Chunghwa Telecom has engaged in long-term cooperation with the Resource Center for the Visually Impaired at Tamkang University for more than 30 years and the EYE Social Innovative Call Center was set up in 2011. These joint efforts led to the unveiling of the first Total Solution in Taiwan. It includes research, development, and improvement 
of a computer-assisted telephone system, and its corresponding skill development, training, supervision for the needs 
of the visually impaired talents to offer the phone-services. 
In 2015, the Company completed an upgrade to the Taipei City 1999 hotline, making it user-friendly to the visually impaired. This upgrade included: a real-time notification system, a three-way call feature with voice recording, English/Japanese services, a verbal abuse referral feature, a call duration reminder, a health regulation inquiry 
feature, and a quick link to service sub-categories. These upgrades greatly improved the scope and efficiency of 
the service. 
By the end of 2019, the Total Solution had  
provided 8 working opportunities for the satis -
faction surveyors of Chunghwa Telecom (includ -
ing one visually impaired manager). And there  
were another 15 customer service personnel (12 visually impaired and 3 supervisors) for the 
 
Taipei City 1999 hotline. 
We initiated new employment opportunities 
for persons with spinal injuries. Including one 
with severe injury serves as 4G visual assistance 
service personnel, i.e. assisting visually impaired people with image identification through 4G cloud services, which helps to promote the 
quality and independence for the visually 
impaired people's daily life while providing employment opportunities for the severely disabled. EYE Social Innovative Call Center 
Creates Employment Opportunities for the Visually Impaired
The automated voice system for donations developed by Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories has proved to be helpful 
for charities, social welfare, cultural, educational, and environmental protection institutions. It gives donors a more convenient means of donation. A donor simply needs to pick up their cell phones, dial the number, and follow the 
voice prompts to contribute care to those in need. In 2019, there were 8,256 donations, totaling NT$ 4,389,350. Automated Voice Donations
Videos126 127 126 127
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
126
In 2019, Chunghwa Telecom donated about NT$ 500 million in the 
participation of public policy items including joining national and 
international associations, supporting government popularization 
services and constructions and developing its prospective industries.
126 127The SDGs CHT contributes to in this chapter: 8 , 9 , 106Chapter
Public Policy 
Participation06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities03 Material Topics 
 and Impact01 Coporate
 Overview02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy129
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities
128
06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
We have joined almost 100 associations and groups to upgrade its technology and stimulate the development of the 
industry through exchange and cooperation within the industry or across different industries. The key associations we joined are as follows:Material TopicsShort-term Goals
(2020)Medium-and Long-Term Strategies
(2021-2025)
Innovative 
ICT products 
and services• Commercialized 5G networks in Q3, 2020
• Launch of “RISE ON, TOGETHER 2021 ” 
transformation plan• To improve business performance through   
the 4 transformational projects: “core 
business,” “emerging business, ” “cost  
optimization,” and “improvement of  
basic skills ” established under the guiding   
principle of “customer-centered value 
creation ”
Climate 
change 
and energy 
management • Register for and pass the examination of 
the Science Based Targets (SBT)• To reach a capacity of 750  kW in renewable 
energy for the company s own facilities  
by 2030
• To reach a cumulative 10% decrease in 
carbon emissions by 2023, with 2017 as the 
base year
The integrity 
and business 
ethics of the 
employees• An employee satisfaction rate of 83 %
• The employee turnover rate within the 
first 3 years of employment maintained at under 5 %
• The rate of implementing annual integrity 
and ethics test reached 100 %
• To keep educational training expenses at 
NT$ 500  million• To ensure that employees average salary 
is in the top 5 % of the industry
• To ensure that starting salaries are high -
er than the minimum wage in Taiwan
• To maintain the collective agreement 
coverage rate at 99 %
• To reach 100 % in implementing general 
education coursesBuilding 
a happy 
business
Fair and 
equal labor-
management 
relations and 
employee 
engagement
Health and 
safety• To reach 99% in employees participation 
in the routine physical examination• To obtain ISO 45001 management system 
certification for every branch
Accurate 
product 
labelling• 0 cases of major unclear labeling or 
incidences of fraud• To ensure 100 % complete compliance 
with laws and internal regulations in 
promotional information of products and services
Rigorous 
Cybersecurity 
Protection• 0 cases of major cyber security incidents
• 0 cases of major personal information 
leakage incidents• Annual examination of and adjustment 
to the policies, regulations, and strate -
gies for cyber and personal information security
• To external and internal audits; to pass 
the investigations of the competent authorities and obtain third party certifications
Corporate 
Governance• 0 cases of major legal violations
• Proportion of Independent directors on 
the Board maintain 35 % and above
• 2 females directors on the Board of  
Directors• T o ensure that no major violations of 
Taiwans economic, environmental, or 
social regulations occurStrategies and Goals for Material Topics
129Name of Association DescriptionAllocated 
Amount 
Annually 
NTD
Taiwan 
Telecommunication 
Industry Development 
Association Participating in the affairs of the Association, the overall development  
of telecommunication industry in Taiwan is promoted.8,000,000 
GSMAFollowing the annual events and activities of the Association, exchanges are carried out with mobile communication carriers worldwide, in software and hardware, to tap into the pulse of the 
global mobile communication ecosystem and facilitate the thriving 
development of the mobile communication industrial chains.4,222,234 
TM ForumThrough the participation in the international organization, TM Forum, the knowledge of 5G operation and management, development strategies, and advanced technologies worldwide are 
gained to streamline with the international standards, create an 
integrated 5G ecosystem, offer quality ICT services, and innovate the digital transition of industries.1,955,778 
Next Generation 
Mobile Networks 
Alliance (NGMN)The participation in the NGMN activities helps the global telecom operators form consensus on the next-generation mobile network development, guide the trends in the industry, and foster the 
cooperation and integrity in the industry.1,032,900  
BROADBAND FORUM Participating in the significant international broadband access 
network standard organization, CHT follows closely to the broadband network technology development globally from the 
perspective of a telecom carrier, promotes cooperation and 
exchanges among the relevant industries domestically, provides guidance to the domestic players, and exerts its international influence with its industrial advantages.532,350  
Taiwan Network 
Information CenterThrough the activities with the Information Center, CHT facilitates and coordinates exchanges and integration among the network organizations on the national and the international levels, assists 
in the popularization and application of the Internet, and gains 
international network resources and opportunities for cooperation. 441,000  
Business Council 
for Sustainable 
Development of 
Taiwan (BCSD-
Taiwan) As the member on the board of directors/supervisors, CHT participates  
in the Councils affairs to advocate and promote environmental protection and resource management joint forces with the 
corporate members so as to achieve the purpose of a sustainable 
development for enterprises while improve the quality of life for the citizenry.120,000  
Asia-Pacific Network 
Information Centre 
(APNIC)Through the organization, CHT partakes in the distribution mechanism of IP addresses in the Asian-Pacific region, frequently attends relevant technology exchanges, and exercises fully its responsibility to 
maintain the normal operation of Internet infrastructure.40,050  
Taiwan Association 
of Information and 
Communication 
StandardsConsensuses on the standards concerning information and com -
munication technologies are formed over the Associations ex -
change platform to facilitate the implementation of industrial standards domestically, exert influences in the region, strengthen 
connections with international and regional standards organiza -
tions, and establish channels for collaboration.30,000  
Chinese Non-store 
Retailer AssociationIn response to the consumption over the virtual channels, CHT leverages the influence of the Association to promote the enforcement of pertinent laws and regulations such as the 
Consumer Protection Act and the Fair Trade Act, access key 
information in the industry, facilitate its legal compliance, and improve the digital development.20,000  Assurance Statement
 
TWLP P5008 Issue 2005  
    
SGS TAIWAN LTD. ’S REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES IN THE 
CHUNGHWA TELECOM  CO., LTD.’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
REPORT  FOR 2019   
 
NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION  
SGS Taiwan Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as SGS) was commissioned by  Chunghwa Telecom CO., LTD. 
(hereinafter referred to as CHT ) to conduct an independent assurance of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report for 2019  (hereinafter referred to as CSR Repo rt). The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS 
Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the sampled text, and data in accompanying tables, 
contained in the report presented during on -site verification (2020/04/24~2020 /05/25). SGS reserves the right to 
update the assurance statement from time to time depending on the level of report content discrepancy of the 
published version from the agreed standards requirements . 
 
The information in the CHT’s CSR Report of 2019  and its presentation are the responsibility of the management 
of CHT. SGS  has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in CHT’s CSR Report of 
2019.  
 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and stat ements within the scope of verification 
with the intention to inform all CHT’s stakeholders.  
 
The SGS protocols are based upon internationally recognized guidance, including the Principles contained within 
the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards ) 101: Foundation 2016  for 
accuracy and reliability and the guidance on levels of assurance contained within the AA1000 series of standards and guidance for Assurance Providers.  
 
This report has been assured using our prot ocols for : 
• evaluation of content veracity  of the sustainability performance information based on the materiality 
determination at a high level of scrutiny  for CHT and moderate level of scrutiny for subsidiaries, joint 
ventures, and applicable aspect boundaries outside of the organization covered by this report ; 
• AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Type 2 evaluation of the report content and supporting 
management systems against the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008);  and 
• evaluation of the report against the requirements of Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting 
Standards ( 100, 200, 300 and 400 series ) claimed in the GRI content index as material and in 
accordance with.  
• evaluation of the report against the IIR C International <IR> Framework (Chinese version 2015) 
requirements for content elements.  
 
The assurance comprised a combination of pre -assurance research, interviews with relevant employees , 
superintendents, CSR committee members and the senior management  in Taiwan ; documentation and record 
review and validation with external bodies and/or stakeholders where relevant.  
Financial data drawn directly from independently audited financial accounts , Total Impact Measurement and 
Management, and Task Force  on Climate -related Financial Disclosures  have  not been checked back to source 
as part of this assurance process.  
 
STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE  
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 
140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, 
environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. 
ASSURANCE STATEMENT   
TWLPP5008 Issue 2005  SGS  affirm our independence from CHT, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, its 
subsidiaries and stakeholders.  
 
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, 
and comprised auditors registered with ISO 26000, ISO 20121, ISO 50001, SA8000, RBA, QMS, EMS, SMS, 
GPMS, CFP, WFP, GHG Verification and GHG Valid ation Lead Auditors and experience on the SRA Assurance 
service provisions.  
 
VERIFICATION/ ASSURANCE OPINION  
On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, we are satisfied that the 
information and data contained within CHT’s CSR Report of 2019  verified is accurate, reliable and provides a fair 
and balanced representation of CHT sustainability activities in 01/01/ 2019  to 12/31/ 2019 .  
 
The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Reporting Organisat ion’s Stakeholders. 
We believe that the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting.  In 
our opinion, the contents of the report meet the requirements of GRI Standards in accordance with Core Option 
and AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Type 2, High level assurance . 
 AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES (2008)  CONC LUSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  
 
Inclusivity  
CHT has demonstrated a good commitment to stakeholder inclusivity and stakeholder engagement. A variety of 
engagement efforts such as survey and communication to employees, customers, investors, suppliers, CSR 
experts, and other stakeholders are implemented t o underpin the organization's understanding of stakeholder 
concerns. For future reporting, CHT may proactively consider having more direct two -ways involvement of 
stakeholders during future engagement.  
Materiality  
CHT has established effective processes fo r determining issues that are material to the business. Formal review 
has identified stakeholders and those issues that are material to each group and the report addresses these at 
an appropriate level to reflect their importance and priority to these stak eholders.  
Responsiveness  
The report includes coverage given to stakeholder engagement and channels for stakeholder feedback.  
 
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORTING STANDARD S CONC LUSIONS, FINDINGS AND 
RECOMMENDATIONS  
 The report, CHT’s CSR Report of 2019, is adequately in line with the GRI Standards in accordance with Core 
Option. The material topics  and their boundaries within and outside of the organization are properly defined in 
accordance with GRI’s Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Disclosures of identified material topic s 
and boundaries, and stakeholder engagement, GRI 102 -40 to  GRI 102 -47, are correctly located in content index 
and report.  For future reporting, it is recommended to be enhance d the CHT’s management approach 
component s as per described in GRI 103 -2, as well as to be enhance d in GRI 103 -3 for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the management approach for each material topic.  
 
Signed:  
For and on behalf of SGS Taiwan Ltd.  
  
  
David Huang  
Senior Director  
Taipei, Taiwan  
12 June , 2020 
WWW.SGS.COM  
131 130GRI Standards Index
The Management Approach and Its Components
Material Topics How We Manage the TopicPurpose of the Management 
ApproachPolicyGoal & 
Target Grievance 
Mechanism
Economic 
Performance 
Innovative ICT 
Products 
and  ServicesWe have a robust corporate governance system that involves independent directors and 
supervisors. The Audit Committee, the Strategy Committee and the Audit Department have been established for effective control of operating costs and business direction.To ensure that the Company’s oper -
ations conform to the requirements 
of the government and supervising 
authorities, and that shareholders’ and stakeholders’ interests are pro -
tected.“Business Integrity Principles”“Behavioral Guidelines”“Corporate Governance Principles”
p.16• Shareholder 
hotline:  
2394-1845
• Investor hotline:  
2344-5488
Market 
PresenceWe have established a compensation committee, which helps to ensure that we provide 
employees with competitive salaries. We ’re also able to adequately reward our employees 
through transparent salary policies.Ensuring that the company’s com -
pensation policies, systemic stan -
dards, and structures comply with government regulations and labor rights.“Employment Contract”
p.67• Grievance hotline: 
0800-080998
Anti-CorruptionTo ensure that all employees can conduct business activities with the highest ethical standard, 
we have implemented the “Business Integrity Principles,” the “Behavior Guidelines,” and the “Integrity Procedures and Behavior Guidelines” that outline the ethics and responsibilities that employees are bound to obey in all commercial conducts. Furthermore, we actively convey to employees about the Company
s culture or its ethical policies.To effectively manage and ensure that all operating activities are com -
pliant with commercial, marketing, and integrity principles, and to elim -
inate corruption.“Business Integrity Principles”
“Codes of Conduct”
“Corporate Governance Principles”
p.17• Grievance hotline: 
0800-080998
Energy
Climate ChangeWe perform annual greenhouse gas inventories & verifications and publicly disclose the 
related environmental information. We effectively keep track of environmental resources and energy saving performance through the self-developed EARTH system.To improve the environmental manage -
ment efficiency via the acquisition of international certifications.“Environmental Policy”
p.97 -
Employment CHT treats employees as its most important partners, and is committed to providing employees the utmost “assurance.” For best protection of employees ’ work rights, Chunghwa 
Telecom has signed the “employment contracts” with individual employees and notifies them of changes regarding employment under the Labor Standards Act. Furthermore, we exploit various communication channels including seminars and labor management meetings to maintain a harmonious and mutually beneficial working relationship.To ensure that employees’ employ -
ment and work rights are protected.“Employment Contract” “Business Integrity Principles” “Codes of Conduct”“Corporate Governance Principles”“Collective Agreement”
p.66,67• Compliant 
Investigation 
Committee
• Grievance hotline: 
0800-080998Labor/ 
Management 
Relations
Occupational 
Health and 
SafetyChunghwa Telecom is the first telecom company in Taiwan to incorporate an Occupational 
Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS 18000). We ensure the effective management of employee health & safety through an institutional and systematic mechanism. In addition to complying with health & safety regulations and other related regulations, we also continue to improve the OHS facilities and measures of our working environment.Chunghwa Telecom guarantees its employees a safe and healthy work -
ing environment to prevent occupa -
tional hazards.“Employee Contract”“Collective Agreement”
p.76• Grievance hotline: 
0800-080998
Marketing 
and 
LabellingIn addition to providing relevant information and usage descriptions on all products and 
services offered, we also have a “Marketing Policy” in place to ensure that business activities are carried out in compliance with the authority ’s rules and requirements. Compliance with 
such policy constitutes part of senior managers ’ performance appraisal.To protect consumers’ rights to in -
formation and ensure the clarity and transparency of marketing informa -
tion.“
Distribution Sales Aid Management Guidelines ”
“Marketing Policy”p.17,86• Telecom Service 
hotline:  
0800-080123
Customer 
Privacy“Cybersecurity and Privacy Protection Steering Committee” has been established with the 
SEVP , appointed by Chairman, as the “CISO” to achieve the objective of zero toleration via regular meetings and third-party verification.To ensure that customers’ personal 
information is strictly protected.“Cybersecurity Policy”“Privacy Policy”“Personal Data Collection Notice”
p.50,85• Telecom Service 
hotline:  
0800-080123
Socioeconomic 
Compliance
Corporate 
GovernanceEthical management and legal compliance are the principles and guidelines that govern our 
operations. To ensure all operations comply with socioeconomic laws and regulations, all the departments as well as the level 1 and level 2 institutions of Chunghwa Telecom are operating in line with the laws and regulations pertaining to the businesses.To ensure that the Company’s opera -
tions are free from violations of envi -
ronmental regulations.“Business Integrity Principles”“Codes of Conduct”“Corporate Governance Principles”“
Distribution Sales Aid Management Guidelines ”
“Marketing Policy”NCC’s “Regulations for Administration of Base Stations of Mobile Communications Network Businesses”p.17• Compliant 
Investigation 
Committee
• Grievance hotline: 
0800-080998
133 1322019 Evaluation of the Management Approach General Disclosures
Material Topics Mechanism for EvaluationResult of the 
EvaluationAdjustment
Economic 
PerformanceIndependent directors, supervisor system, internal audit, 
Board of Directors evaluation (self-evaluation: by the directors and functional committees; third-party evaluation: 
by the external professional institutes commissioned), 
evaluation by the relevant authorityp.16 None
Market 
PresenceCompensation committee, internal audit, evaluation by relevant regulatory authoritiesp.67 None
Anti-CorruptionInternal audit, communication/grievance system (including hotlines, emails, and specialized departments), annual online tests, TWSE Corporate Governance Evaluation, CoC 
obtained from the external third-partyp.17 None
EnergyISO 14001, ISO 50001, and ISO 14064-1 management system 
certificate, TWSE corporate governance evaluation p.97 None
EmploymentTWSE Corporate Governance Evaluation, Employment Contract, Collective Agreement p.67 None
Labor/ 
Management 
RelationsTWSE Corporate Governance Evaluation, Employment Contract, Collective Agreement p.70 None
Occupational 
Health and 
SafetyEmployment Contract, Collective Agreement p.78 None
Marketing 
and 
LabellingNCC s telecom service quality survey, communication/
consumer complaint reportp.17 None
Customer 
PrivacyGrievance system, system certification (ISO 27001, BS 10012), internal auditor certification, TWSE Corporate Governance Evaluationp.50,85 None
Socioeconomic 
ComplianceNCC s telecommunication service quality survey,  
communication/consumer complaint report, evaluation of Board of Directors  Performance by external third-party, 
TWSE Corporate Governance Evaluation, CoC by the external third partyp.17 None
GRI 103 
Management 
ApproachDisclosure Item Page
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p.30-31
103-2 The management approach and its components p.132-133
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p.134General 
Disclosures
(2016)Disclosure ItemsPage / URL  
and DescriptionIdentified 
Omission and 
ExplanationExternal 
Assurance
Organizational profile
102-1 Name of the organization Chunghwa Telecom V
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services p.11 V
102-3 Location of headquarters p.8 V
102-4 Location of operations p.8 V
102-5 Ownership and legal form p.8 V
102-6 Market served p.11 V
102-7 Scale of the organization p.8,14,68 V
102-8 Information on employees and other workers p.67-68 V
102-9 Supply chain p.12-13 V
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain None V
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p.40-51 V
102-12 External initiatives p.17,109 V
102-13 Membership of associations p.128 V
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p.4-5 V
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior p.17 V
Governance
102-18 Governance structure p.14 V
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups p.35 V
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p.70 V
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p.34 V
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p.32-33 V
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p.32-33 V
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements V
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries p.30-31 V
102-47 List of material topics p.31 V
102-48 Restatements of information None V
102-49 Changes in reporting None V
102-50 Reporting period V
102-51 Date of most recent report 2019/8/15 V
102-52 Reporting cycle Annually V
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report p.1 V
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core V
102-55 GRI content index p.132-140 V
102-56 External assurance V
135 134p.130-131 (SGS-Taiwan)2019/1/1 - 2019/12/312019 Annual Report  p.109Topic-Specific Disclosures
Topic-Specific 
DisclosuresDisclosure Item (topics without years noted  
are of the 2016 edition of the GRI standards)Page / URL and 
DescriptionIdentified 
Omission 
and 
ExplanationExternal 
Assurance
201 Economic Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p.16 V
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans p.80-81 V
202 Market Presence
202-1Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 
local minimum wagep.67 V
205 Anti-Corruption
205-2Communications and training about anti-corruption policies and proceduresp.17 V
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken None V
206 Anti-Competitive Behavior *
206-1Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practicesNone V
302 Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p.96,97 V
302-4 Reductions of energy consumption p.96-99 V
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services p.96-99 V
305 Emissions *
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions p.49 V
305-2 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions p.49 V
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions p.49 V
305-5 Reduction of GHG Emissions p.47-48 V
307 Environmental Compliance *
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations None V
308 Supplier Environmental Assessment *
308-1
New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria p.104 V
401 Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p.68 V
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 
to temporary or part-time employeesp.77-81 V
401-3 Parental leave p.81 V Note: Topics marked with * have been disclosed voluntarily, and are not part of the material topics identified in 2019.Topic-Specific 
DisclosuresDisclosure Item (topics without years noted  
are of the 2016 edition of the GRI standards)Page / URL and 
DescriptionIdentified 
Omission 
and 
ExplanationExternal 
Assurance
402 Labor/Management Relations
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes p.70 V
403 Occupational Health and Safety
403-1Workers representation in formal joint management-worker 
health and safety committeesp.76 V
403-2Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalitiesp.78 V
403-4Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unionshttps://goo.gl/gMRBN1
Health and Safety topics make 
up 6.5% of the trade unions.V
405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity *
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p.14,68,70 V
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men p.69 V
414 Supplier Social Assessment *
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria p.104 V
415 Public Policy *
415-1 Political contributions None V
416 Customer Health and Safety *
416-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and servicesNone V
417 Marketing and Labelling
417-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelingNone V
417-3Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 
communicationsNone V
418 Customer Privacy
418-1Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer dataNone V
419 Socioeconomic Compliance
419-1Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areaNone V
137 13613906 Public Policy 
 Participation
DMA and 
IndicatorsDisclosure ItemsPage / URL 
and DescriptionIdentified 
Omission 
and 
ExplanationExternal 
Assurance
SUB-CATEGORY: INTERNAL OPERATIONS
MATERIAL ASPECT: Investment
DMA
116IO1Capital investment in telecommunication network 
infrastructure broken down by country/regionp.88 V
IO2Net costs for service providers under the Universal Service Obligation when extending service to geographic locations and low-income groups, which 
are not pro table. Describe relevant legislative and 
regulatory mechanismsp.112,128 V
ATERIAL ASPECT: Health and Safety
DMA
90IO3Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel   
involved in the installation, operation and maintenance   
of masts, base stations, laying cables and other 
outside  plants. Related health and safety issues 
include working at heights, electric shock, exposure 
to EMF and radio frequency fields, and exposure to 
hazardous chemicalsp.75-76 V
IO4Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission 
on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) standards 
on exposure to radiofrequency (RF) emissions from handsetsp.90 V
IO5Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) guidelines on exposure to radiofrequency (RF) emissions from 
base stationsp.90 V
IO6
Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption  
Rate (SAR) of handsetsp.90-91 V
MATERIAL ASPECT: Infrastructure
DMA
90IO7Policies and practices on the siting of masts and   
transmission sites including stakeholder consultation, 
site sharing, and initiatives to reduce visual impacts. 
Describe approach to evaluate consultations and 
quantify where possiblep.90 V
IO8Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites, and sites on existing structuresp.90 VG3.1 Telecommunication Sector Specific Indicators
138SUB-CATEGORY: PROVIDING ACCESS
MATERIAL ASPECT: Access to Telecommunication Products and Services: Bridging the Digital Divide
DMA
109PA1Policies and practices to enable the deployment 
of telecommunications infrastructure and access to telecommunications products and services in 
remote and low population density areas. Include 
an explanation of business models appliedp.88,112 V
PA2Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of telecommunication products and 
services including: language, culture, illiteracy, and 
lack of education, income, disabilities, and age. Include an explanation of business models appliedp.112 V
PA3Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of telecommunications products and 
services and quantify, where possible, for specified 
time periods and locations of down timep.116 V
PA4
Quantify the level of availability of telecommunications 
products and services in areas where the organization 
operates. Examples include: customer numbers/market share, addressable market, percentage of 
population covered, percentage of land coveredp.116 V
PA5Number and types of telecommunication products and services provided to and used by low and 
no income sectors of the population. Provide definitions selected. Include explanations of 
approach to pricing, illustrated with examples such 
as price per minute of dialogue / bit of data transfer in various remote, poor or low population density 
areasp.116,122 V
PA6
Programs to provide and maintain telecommunication 
products and servicesp.88 V
MATERIAL ASPECT: Access to Content
DMA
84PA7Policies and practices to manage human rights issues relating to access and use of telecommunications 
products and services p.83,85 V06 Public Policy 
 Participation05 The Creation of 
 Sustainable Value
03	 Material	Topics	
	 and	Impact01	 Coporate	 Overview04 Sustainability Risks 
 and Opportunities02 Sustainability 
  Value Strategy
140Customer Relations
DMA
84PA8Policies and practices to publicly communicate on 
EMF related issues. Include information provides at 
points of sales materialp.91 V
PA9Total amount invested in programs and activities in 
electromagnetic field research. Include descriptions 
of programs currently contributed to and funded by 
the reporting organizationNone V
PA10 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffshttp://www.
emome.net/cell_
phone_plans/
monthly_rate_planV
PA11Initiatives to inform customers about product features and applications that will promote 
responsible, efficient, cost-effective, and 
environmentally preferable usep.84 V
SUB-CATEGORY: Technology Applications
MATERIAL ASPECT: Resource Efficiency
DMA
60TA1Provide examples of the resource efficiency of 
telecommunication products and services deliveredp.60 V
TA2Provide examples of telecommunication products, services and applications that have the potential to replace physical objects (e.g. a telephone book by a 
database on the web or travel by videoconferencing)p.61-62 V
TA3Disclose any measures of transport and/or resource 
changes of customer use of the telecommunication 
products and services listed above. Provide some 
indication of scale, market size, or potential savingsp.63-65 V
TA4Disclose any estimates of the rebound effect (indirect consequences) of customer use of the products and services listed above, and lessons 
learned for future development. This may include 
social consequences as well as environmentalp.61-62 V
TA5Description of practices relating to intellectual 
property rights and open source technologiesp.64 V