C to C
Connection to Consumption
Consumer to Content
Compassion to Commitment
Welcome to Chunghwa Telecom’s first annual report on
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), 
in which we sincerely invite you to:
understand our efforts toward CSR
oversee our actions
join us in planning the ideal future
of the telecommunications world. 1C to C
Connection to Consumption
Consumer to Content
Compassion to Commitment
Welcome to Chunghwa Telecom’s fi  rst annual report on
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), 
in which we sincerely invite you to:
understand our efforts toward CSR
oversee our actions
join us in planning the ideal future
of the telecommunications world. Table of Contents
C to C… 1 
Letter from the Chairman and CEO 2
About Our Company 4
Ratings and Awards  5 
Organizational Structure  6
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation 7
Our Services  8
Institutional Change and Employees  10
Restructuring and Financial Performance  11
Corporate Governance Framework  12
Corporate Code of Ethics  12
CSR Organizational Framework  13
CSR Affairs  14
Labor Relations  15
Employee Welfare  15
Training and Development  16
Health and Safety  17
Diversity  18
Our Commitment to Corporate Governance  19
Customer Service  20
Customer Service Channels  21
Integrated Billing and Electronic Billing  22
Protection of Privacy  23
Anti-Fraud Measures  24
Rules of Conduct for Sales and Marketing Staff  24
Customer Satisfaction Surveys  25
Electromagnetic Fields  25
Safe Surfi  ng Guard 26
Our Commitment to Customer Service  27
Digital Opportunities  28
Broadband Access to Every Village  29
Digital Good Neighbor  30
Corporate Volunteerism  31
Assisting Recently Immigrated Women  33
Taiwan Indigenous Peoples Tribal Portal Site  34
Low Income Household Broadband Internet Premium  34
Physically and Mentally Disabled Information System  35
Physically and Mentally Disabled Broadband Internet Premium  35
Click Taiwan  36
Our Commitment to Digital Opportunities  37
Environmental Sustainability  38
Environmental Sustainability Goals  39
2008 Environmental Sustainbility Strategic Map  41
Carbon Management Strategy  42
Results of Digitalization Plans 52
Digital Forests to Fight Global Warming 53
Our Commitment to Environmental Sustainability  55
CSR Management  56
Outlook 2008  57
GRI G3 Content Index  58PageDear reader, I cordially welcome you to peruse our first Corporate Social Responsibility Report, where we 
share with you our ideals and methods of addressing corporate social responsibility.
The world has ever increasing expectations of the role of corporations in society. As the leader of Taiwan’s tele-
communications industry, Chunghwa Telecom’s actions receive special public attention.
We take it to heart that all our stakeholders — from consumers, employees and suppliers to investors, the 
government and the public — are interested in knowing not only our economic performance, but also how Chung-
hwa Telecom is addressing the environmental challenges of the 21st Century.
It is therefore in our highest interest to engage our stakeholders. We are confident this report will provide a com-
prehensive introduction to our company’s efforts to continually improve our economic, social and environmental performance.
After many years of government investment in basic infrastructure, Taiwan and its offshore islands are 
now all served by the Chunghwa Telecom service network. We are a highly localized corporation - truly the neighbor of each and every person in Taiwan. From our roots as the operating branch of the General Bureau of Telecommunications to our current status as a private enterprise our corporate makeup has changed, but our attributes have remained the same. With operations distributed throughout every corner of Taiwan, the universality of telecommunications has stimulated Taiwan’s industrial development and has enhanced the quality of life. We continue to play a crucial role in this respect.
The stability of our personnel system gives our employees a sense of security and willingness to stay onboard 
for many years. Many of our employees have continually served at the same location for over 20 years. This kind of stability has allowed them to invest in local housing, raise their families in the vicinity of their workplace, and become truly local and integral members of the community. We believe that living up to our duty to serve the community is essential to maintaining Chunghwa Telecom’s outstanding performance. Locally rooted employees are indeed our greatest strength and asset in fulfilling corporate social responsibility. 
The modes and content of telecommunications services are rapidly evolving. In the past, we were positioned as 
infrastructure and standard product providers. Now we are a comprehensive telecommunications service provider and we must respond to our clients’ changing needs by creating products that resonate closely with people and their communities. Our view of comprehensive service does not stop at universal network coverage, which on its own will not solve the digital gap between urban and rural areas. In an era when digital communications are seen as a fundamental citizen right, our most important task with regard to corporate social responsibility is to provide universal service, shorten the digital divide and create local opportunities.
The Chunghwa Telecom Foundation was established to actively assist indigenous peoples and minority groups 
in remote areas. All Chunghwa Telecom branches have also actively complemented government infrastructure plans. Even in isolated mountain areas where it is difficult to set up infrastructure, our employees do whatever it takes to complete the job. One such example is the establishment of Internet services in the remote mountain village of Smangus, Hsinchu County.
In 2006, we established the Chunghwa Telecom Corporate Social Responsibility Committee to ensure we 
remain actively engaged in living up to our promise of corporate social responsibility. The committee contains the following six working groups: Corporate Governance, Environmental Sustainability, Consumer Care, Digital Opportunities, Employee Care, and Corporate Volunteerism. Furthermore, Chunghwa Telecom Foundation’s services are interwoven throughout our organizational framework. We deeply believe that CSR is a longterm cha-llenge that requires the establishment of an internal management mechanism to ensure the integration of mana-gement and corporate social responsibility, and guarantee continual advancement. Letter from the Chairman and CEO3As a neighbor to all residents of Taiwan, we are responsible for taking a leading role in fostering healthy attitudes to-
ward environmental protection and helping Taiwan face the serious challenges of climate change. In past years we have 
always encouraged people to handle affairs online rather than outside on the roads to save both time and resources, as well as protect the environment. In 2005 we became one of the few domestic corporations to join the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and among the fi  ve Taiwan corporations to respond to the Carbon Disclosure Pro-jects. We have also launched a “Digital Forest” campaign in hopes of using the power of the Internet to promote the envi-ronmental sustainability.
At last, I would like to extend my sincere gratitude for the affi  rmation of our CSR efforts by both Global Views Monthly 
Magazine in its 2007 Taiwan Corporate Ethics Large Survey and CommonWealth Magazine in its 2007 CommonWealth Corporate Citizen Award. We are optimistic about the future, and are committed to applying our core strengths to yield sustained profi  t and growth. Equally important is our continual investment in local communities so that they are empowered to make greater positive contributions. We prioritize the health, safety and career development of our employees to ensure our management activities comply with high moral standards and contribute toward sustainable development. We eagerly anticipate the participation of Chunghwa Telecom stakeholders to help us enhance our performance and strengthen the link between telecommunication services and a better world.
Chairman and CEO 
Tan Ho ChenChunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. was established in 1996 as a result of the 
government’s separation of the telecommunication business and regulatory 
functions. Since 1997, government had actively pursuing privatization policy by making its shares available to investors. On August 12, 2005, Chunghwa Telecom became privatized with the government ownership decreasing to below 50% after a series of stock offering. It enabled us to more rapidly and effi  ciently develop our business and respond to changing market conditions.
Chunghwa Telecom is the largest telecommunications service provider 
in Taiwan with paid-in capital NT$95,577,769,140. The Company provides integrated and full range of telecommunications services that include fi  xed-
line services, wireless services, and Internet and data services with various kinds of broadband access and has the largest market share in all its key business lines.
As of the end of 2007, nation-wide mobile penetration rate was 105.8% 
and broadband household penetration rate was 64%. Supported by best quality network, we offer our customers trusted cross platform services. As a result, in 2007, our market share for fi  xed-line, mobile, broadband access and ISP were reported 97.4%, 35.8%, 87% and 68.4% respectively in accordance with the National Communications Commission (NCC)’s announcement. In addition, our brand equity was endorsed with the receipt of the Reader’s Digest “Trusted Brand” Platinum Award for the telecommunications services category for four consecutive years.    
Despite increasingly intense market competition, our employee’s con-
certed efforts drove Chunghwa Telecom’s operating results to remarkable levels. In 2007, revenue reached NT$186.32 billion, net income was NT$48.25 billion, and earnings per share were NT$4.56. In 2007, we were ranked number 576 on the “Forbes Global 2000”, Forbes magazine’s comprehensive list of the world’s largest and most powerful companies; we were number 5 among all Taiwan companies and number 29 among all telecommunications operators worldwide.
About Our Company
What we are thinking about is not just 
the leading position in the market, but also the social responsibility that comes along with it.5Ratings and Awards
The greatest efforts of all Chunghwa Telecom 
employees resulted in our receiving the following industry 
ratings and awards:
1. Taiwan Ratings Corporation: long-term issuer credit 
rating twAAA, short-term issuer credit rating twA-1+, 
with a ratings outlook of stable. 
2. Standard and Poor's Ratings: long-term issuer credit 
rating AA, with a ratings outlook of stable. 
3. Corporate Governance Association in Taiwan: awarded 
the CG6002 Certifi  cate of Corporate Governance. 
4. Taiwan Securities and Futures Institute: awarded the 
highest ranking of A+ for information transparency and disclosure for 3 consecutive years. 
5. Accredited to OHSAS in 2007.6. Awarded a certifi  cate of excellence for occupational sa-
fety during the 2007 Taiwan Occupational Safety Week. 
7. Global Views Monthly Magazine: fi  rst place in the 2007 
survey of ethics in Taiwanese corporations. 
8. CommonWealth Magazine: won the 2007 award 
for Taiwan’s most trusted brand and the inaugural CommonWealth award for “Corporate Citizens”. 
9. Reader’s Digest Magazine: awarded the status of Tru-
sted Brand for 4 consecutive years. 
10. The Asset Magazine: won an Asset Corporate Gover-
nance Award for 2007. 
11. FinanceAsia Magazine: won the investor’s vote for 
Asia's Best Companies 2007 - Most Committed to a Strong Dividend Policy.
ISP
Broadband Access
Mobile
Fixed Line
97.4％     35.8％       87％        68.4％100
80
604020
0Market Share
Latest Update on December 24th, 2007Government AgenciesDomestic Financial 
InstitutionsOther Domestic 
Institutional InvestorsDomestic Individual 
Investors
Foreign Institutional and 
Individual Investors
35.86%44.39%8.23%2.03%9.49%Structure Makeup of ShareholdersChunghwa Telecom Organizational ChartOrganizational Structure
E-Call cards), tele-conferencing, video conferencing, the 
Taiwan Internet Gateway (TWGATE), the International Private Leased Circuit (IPLC), the Internet Data Center (IDC), the Mobile Virtual Private Network (MVPN) and the Internet Protocol Virtual Private Network (IPVPN).
6.  Enterprise Business Group:
Total solutions for information and communication; acts as an agent for ICT products; offers consultancy services; manages and administers tenders for ICT projects; offers total service packages for corporate customers, including fi  xed line, mobile, Internat and data services.
7.  Telecom Laboratories:
Deals mainly with R&D, including wireless communi-cations, broadband networks, multimedia technology, operational support systems, customer service information systems, advanced technologies, and information security.Also develops marketing strategy/corporate customer services technologies.
8.  Telecom Training Institute:
In-house training of telecommunication professionals in operations, management, technology, and marketing; acts as an industry training consultant and administers professional skills tests; handles production, printing and publishing of journals and other published material.
Shareholders' 
Meeting
Secretariat 
Board of 
DirectorsPresidentAudit
Telecommunication Training InstituteTelecommunication LaboratoriesEnterprise Business GroupInternational Business GroupData Communications Business GroupMobile Business GroupSouthern Taiwan Business GroupNorthern Taiwan Business GroupOperating Departments in Headquarters
Board of 
Directors 
Chairman & 
CEO
Supervisors
Vice 
Presidents
1.  Northern Taiwan Business Group: 
Local and long-distance calls, pay phones, leased 
lines, xDSL, intelligent networks, MOD, total corporate services, mobile, Internet access and data communications.
2.  Southern Taiwan Business Group: 
Local and long-distance calls, pay phones, leased lines, xDSL, intelligent networks, MOD, total corporate services, mobile, Internet access and data communi-cations.
3.  Mobile Business Group:
Mobile services, including messaging, voice mail, in-ternational roaming, mobile data (business, leisure, fi  nancial management, news, etc.), and other value-added services, General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), and the Mobile Virtual Private Network (MVPN).
4.  Data Communications Business Group: 
Internet data services, including Internet Data Center (IDC), telecommunication value-added services, video conferencing, multimedia services, information system services, electronic commerce, total government and corporate Internet services.
5.  International Business Group:
International voice services (IDD,Super eCall), inter-national phone cards (business cards, prepaid cards, 7We envision Chunghwa Telecom as a tree that has 
been growing a few score years and is now capable of 
bearing the fruits of culture and humanity. We established the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation in 2006 to bring toge-ther our technical expertise regarding the Internet and nu-merous resources from different areas of society. In doing this we hope to enrich people’s lives by supporting the de-velopment of community culture and local enterprises, and helping to reduce the digital divide. The objectives of the foundation are as follows: 
1. To promote the development of local culture and industry 
and help reduce the digital divide. The focus of work is 
on enriching people’s lives by strengthening local cul-ture and encouraging public participation in cultural activities. 
2. To support local culture and industry through the esta-
blishment of the Click Taiwan website, offering a plat-form for cultural exchanges. We hope that through text, images and videos we can join hands with local enterprises to record their efforts and the stories created in local communities. 
3. To reduce the digital divide by establishing Digital Good 
Neighbor facilities in remote parts of the island that will offer equipment and broadband connections. The foundation’s aim is to provide resources and volunteers to improve the quality of life, education, and industry in deprived local communities. 
4.  To enrich lives in local communities. Chunghwa Tele-
com’s volunteers are helping to continuously move our society forward through active, caring participation in local issues. 
Our Commitment
•  To create diverse digital opportunities for cultural, indus-
trial or educational purposes so that local communities will always remain the backbone of Taiwan’s sustainable development.
•  To explore the opportunities for development of local 
industry through our broadband and Internet services.
•  To deepen our roots in local communities through cor-
porate volunteerism.
Chunghwa Telecom FoundationOur Services
Fixed Line Services
● Local Telephone Services: including Local Calling, Call Waiting, Call Forwarding, Three Way 
Calling, Speed Dialing, Timed Reminders, Do Not Disturb Service, Ring Back Tone, Call Screening, 
Direct Phone, Automatic Hunting Lines, Unified Message Services, and 1288 Directory Service. 
● Domestic Long-Distance Telephone Services: including Operator Toll Dialing (OTD), Subscriber 
Toll Dialing (STD) and Long-Distance Hotline. 
● International Long-Distance Telephone Services: including 009 International Direct Dialing, 019 
Super eCall, International Simple Resale (ISR), Hotline 009, 009 Happy Hour, International Pre-paid Card, International E-Call Cards, Chunghwa Telecom Business Calling Card, Toll-Free Service, and Conference call. 
●
 Intelligent Network (IN): including 0800 Toll-Free Service, 0203 Bulk Announcement, 099 Personal 
Number Service, and 0204 Premium Rate Services.
● Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN): allowing digital transmission of voice, data, text and 
image. 
Mobile Communication Services
● GSM Mobile Communication Service:  using mobile handset through the Global System for Mobile 
Communication, users can call domestic or international numbers at will, whether they are traveling on business, on vacation, or driving. 
●
 3G Mobile Communication Service: transmits data at up to 2Mbps, allows voice navigation 
and the transmission of complex, varied data such as multimedia and streaming video. Chunghwa Telecom is also in the process of laying down high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA), which will facilitate transmission speeds of up to 14.4Mbps.
● 
Mobile Value-Added Services: including Text and Multimedia Messaging, Mobile Internet, Ring 
Back Tone, and mPro/mCool . Other services include Mobile Community, Mobile Business and Data Services, Music and Games Downloads, Streaming Video, Image Telephony, Location Base Service, Mobile E-mail, and Multimedia Services such as Mobile Video on Demand (VOD).    
Internet and Data Communication Services
● Internet Service Provider Services: Chunghwa Telecom’s ISP service is called HiNet. Besides 
providing Internet connections, HiNet also offers value-added services such as games, learning resources, music, video, anti-virus/firewall protection, financial advice, horoscopes, as well as the Xuite members’ service.
●
 Broadband Internet
ADSL Service: Uses the customer’s existing landline or another installed circuit with ADSL technology to provide Internet connections and virtual private network (VPN)/multimedia on demand (MOD) services.
Optical Communications Services: We use a variety of optical fiber equipment with Ethernet / 
VDSL technology to offer our customers high-speed Internet, VPN and MOD services.9 
 
 
 
 
 Wireless Services (WLAN): Chunghwa Telecom’s WLAN software and hardware installed in pu-
blic places such as airports, hotels, and malls, create “hot spots” that allow customers to connect 
wirelessly to HiNet. As long as the customer’s notebook or PDA has a wireless card installed they can use their HiNet account or mobile phone number to immediately enjoy wireless broadband Internet.
● MOD (IPTV) Services: our transmission platform offers our customers, or the customers of 
other telecom companies, multimedia on demand content. Media companies use our platform to offer online TV or radio channels, programs on demand, and other applied services such as high definition TV, VOD, Internet banking, and home karaoke. 
● Dedicated Line Services: we offer local, long-distance or international dedicated line services for 
customers who require point-to-point transmission of data, and voice calls.
Corporate Customer Services
We offer advanced customized data and communication services for our local corporate custo-
mers to enable them to raise their competitiveness, maximize profits and achieve their corporate goals.
● Corporate Customer Total Services:  including IP-PBX and IP Centrex Voice Value-Added 
Services, Corporate Voice and Data Total Services, Corporate Internet Upgrading, Attendance Ma-nagement Systems, IPCC Customer Service Platforms, Traffic Surveillance Systems, Intelligent Network Services, Portable Extension Phones for Hotel Staff, and IMO Total Management Ser-vices. 
●
 Corporate Customer International Services:  including Conferencing and Interactive Voice 
Response (IVR), IPLC Dedicated International Lines, Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) VPN Services. 
● 
Corporate Customer Mobile Services:  including Corporate MVPN Services, Corporate Mes-
saging Services, Mobile Office Services (MDVPN), Upgrading Corporate Mobile Capability, mPro Business Services, Business Travel Services, and GPRS Communication and Data Services.
●
 Corporate Customer Data Services: offering Optical Fiber Internet Connections, Corporate 
Data Security Services, Electronic Commerce, Government Tenders and Real Estate Services. We also offer Corporate Web Hosting, Intelligent Facilities Management Services, Direct Broadcasting Platforms, Video Conferencing and HiNet Travel Web. 
Other Services
● Satellite Communications Services: including Renting out of Transponders, Satellite Uplinks, 
Transoceanic Broadcasting and Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) Services.Chunghwa Telecom was privatized in 2005. This left us facing major 
changes to our corporate structure and the way the company operated. 
On the one hand, government budget restrictions were reduced but at the same time we were exposed to greater competition. On the other hand, we were relieved from the burden of being a part of national policy, and yet at the same time our own sense of corporate social responsibility naturally increased. As of 2007, we are still undergoing changes to our corporate structure and culture.
We are acutely aware that a business is more than just a capital venture 
– it is also an organization of people. Looking at a corporation from this angle, problems inevitably arise when a corporation faces restructuring or is exposed to greater market competition. We discovered that many of our employees accepted the need to change as reasonable, but on an emo-tional level still resisted changes or harbored suspicions toward them. While respecting the right of employees to express their opinions, we remained determined to fully implement the necessary changes. 
We have maintained continuous discussions with the labor union 
while carrying out the structural changes and employee performance as-sessments, and transforming the “everybody is equal” culture that we in-herited as a former national enterprise. In keeping with the spirit of Web 2.0, we set up an interactive intranet within the company to give our employees a platform from which to freely express their opinions. During this difﬁ  cult 
period of change our concern for our employees has been as strong as ever, and we have not reduced employee beneﬁ  ts. 
Facing changes in the world at large, we have opted to make CSR the 
basis of growth and our corporate culture strategy in the hope of making our metamorphosis more dynamic and meaningful. The changes we are undergoing require a fusion and balancing of new and traditional corporate practices, and a newer, more open approach to information disclosure. We ﬁ  rmly believe that the policies we have adopted are the ﬁ  rst solid step on the road to lasting growth.
Institutional Change 
and Employees
The following section revolves around the concept of corporate gover-
nance and includes: 
Restructuring and Financial Performance, Corporate Governance 
Framework, Corporate Code of Ethics, CSR Organizational Frame-work, CSR Affairs,  Labor Relations, Employee Welfare, Training and Development, Health and Safety, Diversity.  Faced with changes in the world at 
large, we are striving to create a new corporate culture at Chunghwa Telecom.11
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
Revenues 179,148,543  182,562,682 183,381,851 184,386,978 186,328,955 
Operating Costs 90,720,133 92,959,810 93,941,491 94,268,549 94,316,104
Employee Remuneration 35,281,159 37,921,373 38,169,578 39,128,211 37,051,022
Earnings Per Share 4.55 4.67 4.47 4.21 4.56
Income Tax 10,377,914 10,889,233 11,949,967 12,751,979 12,847,151Financial Performance Indicators (Amounts in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
Revenues
Earnings Per 
Share190,000,000
180,000,000
170,000,000
160,000,000
150,000,000179,148,543182,562,682183,381,851184,386,978186,328,955
2003 2004 2005 2006 200745
4.554.67
4.47
4.214.56(Thousand of NTD)(NTD)Before July 1996, Chunghwa Telecom was a state-
owned enterprise under authority of the Directorate General 
of Telecommunications (DGT), Ministry of Transportation and Communications. Following multiple share offerings, Chunghwa Telecom became a private company in August 2005. After the privatization, we actively started investing in other ventures.We have subsidiaries such as Chunghwa Investment, Chunghwa International Yellow Pages, Chief Telecom, SENAO International, Spring House Entertainment, Chunghwa System Integration, Light Era Development, etc. In the increasingly competitive market, the company also adjusted to be more performance-oriented. Examples of this include the integration of Central Taiwan Business Group and Southern Taiwan Business Group, establishment of Enterprise Business Group and Customer Service Department.   
Creating a good system of corporate governance is the 
foundation of lasting growth. We have adopted the highest standard of information disclosure to raise our level of cor-porate transparency. Our aim is to foster an attitude that places a premium on efﬁ  ciency and responsibility in order to increase our competitive advantage and overall worth. Restructuring and Financial Performance
In 2007 our efforts started to bear fruit. Company earn-
ings were NT$186.32 billion, which exceeded our target of NT$182.22 billion. Annual turnover per employee went from NT$5.79 million in 2001 (when the company was still state-owned) to NT$7.71 million in 2007, an increase of almost NT$2 million.
Our paid-in capital is NT$95,577,769,140. Even 
though Chunghwa Telecom is now a private company, the government is still our biggest shareholder, holding 3,407,782,984 shares, or 35.25% of the total. In 2007, a cash dividend of NT$3.58 was allocated to each share. A stock dividend of NT$1.00 per share from capital increase out of capital surplus was also distributed to shareholders by issuing 966,784,509 new shares, balanced by a capital reduction. This resulted in an extra cash dividend of NT$0.909 per share. Looking to the future, we are conﬁ  dent that despite ﬁ  erce market competition, and we will still continue doing our best maximizing shareholders’ value.Corporate Governance 
Framework
Implementing corporate governance is one of the cor-
nerstones of our ambition to be a world-class telecom com-
pany; it is also an important trend in the wave of globaliza-tion sweeping the business world. Since becoming a pub-licly traded company, Chunghwa Telecom has abided by the Corporate Governance Best-Practice Principles for Tai-wan Stock Exchange Corporation/GreTai Securities Market Listed Companies. In August 2004, we drew upon these principles and incorporated them into a legal framework to form our “Code of Corporate Governance of Chunghwa Telecom” to set the standards by which we now operate.
Our articles of incorporation allow for a 7-to-15-member 
board of directors. Our board currently is comprised of 14 directors, including 3 independent directors, and 4 super-visors. There are 3 functional committees named Strategy, Audit, and Compensation Committees. The duties and operating mechanisms of each of the committees are given in below chart.
Major Resolutions taken by the board are all recorded 
and disclosed in detail. Our annual report also contains all of the relevant information.Corporate Code of Ethics
Chunghwa Telecom’s Corporate Code of Ethics deﬁ  nes 
the responsibilities we have as we do business. These 
include the responsibilities of employees as individuals or as a group, and the scope of Chunghwa Telecom’s responsibility toward the general public and other stake-holders. The code of ethics applies to our board of directors, supervisors, managers, and 24,000 employees.  
The code of ethics outlines the rules governing be-
havior and relationships for all of Chunghwa Telecom’s employees, and all employees have the responsibility to report transgressions. We require that our employees abide by the code of ethics no matter where in the world they are working. This ensures that our business practices are in full accordance with local laws and social mores, and prevents inappropriate behavior from occurring.  
The code of ethics is now also part of the training 
our employees receive and they take tests every year to ensure that they fully understand them. Tests are con-ducted through the Chunghwa Telecom intranet, and in 2007 almost 100% of employees took the test. 
Chunghwa Telecom’s Corporate Code of Ethics can be 
downloaded from the following website:
http://www.cht.com.tw/CHTFinalE/Web/AboutUS.php?CatID=911
Chunghwa Telecom 
14 Board of Directors
including
 3 Independent DirectorsAudit Committee
Compensation Committee• the review of and discussion with management regarding our ﬁ  nancial statements and other 
ﬁ  nancial reports and disclosure.
• the appointment of our principal accounting ﬁ  rm and approval of non-audit services provided by 
the principal accounting ﬁ  rm.
• the review and assessment of our internal control policy, procedures and functions.
• assisting management and our principal accounting ﬁ  rm to resolve any difﬁ  culties encountered in 
the course of audit work.
• our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements impacting our ﬁ  nancial reporting.
• the review and approval of procedures relating to major ﬁ  nancial actions and related party 
transactions. 
• the assessment and management of our existing and potential risk exposure.• reviewing and advising on the budgets.
• capital requirements.
• ﬁ  nancial forecasts.
• matters related to investments.
in charge of the compensation proposals for the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Directors, Supervisors, 
CEO and President.4 SupervisorsStrategy CommitteeOrganizational Framework for Board of Directors
• business license matters.
• corporate reorganization.
• development plans and other major issues 
affecting our development.13CSR Organizational Framework
We believe that the trend toward good corporate 
governance ﬁ  rst and foremost implies an attitude of cor-
porate social responsibility. Transparency of ﬁ  nancial and nonﬁ  nancial performance is also extremely important. Good CSR management is the best way to implement spe-ciﬁ  c performance objectives and strengthen relations with stakeholders. It is as important as achieving economic or ﬁ  nancial targets.
Chunghwa Telecom formed a Corporate Social Res-
ponsibility Committee in June 2006. At the start of 2007 the members of this interdepartmental committee began 
Chunghwa Telecom CSR Committee Organizational Framework
Chunghwa Telecom 
CSR Committee
Director: Chairman and CEO
Deputy Director: President
ConsultantsCorporate Governance Group
Environmental  Sustainability Group
Consumer Care Group
Digital Opportunities Group
Employee Care Group
Corporate Volunteerism GroupChunghwa Telecom 
FoundationCSR Secretariathelping managers in every department implement CSR 
strategies, and now CSR is evident in our leadership, in our management framework, and in use as a strategic tool to create a new corporate culture. 
The CSR Committee is headed by Chunghwa Telecom 
Chairman and CEO, with the President serving as deputy. Meetings are convened once every quarter. The committee oversees the CSR secretariat and six working groups, who are charged with the task of making preparations for, and implementing, speciﬁ  c CSR programs and activities.Category Corporate Social Responsibility Affairs
Corporate 
GovernanceCorporate Governance Systems/ Stakeholders’ Rights/ Degrees of Transparency of Informa-
tion
Concern for 
EmployeesEmployee Welfare/ Communicating and Consulting with Employees/ Health and Safety/ Labor Relations/ Job Opportunities for Disadvantaged Groups/ Provisions for Retired Employees 
Concern for the 
ConsumerElectromagnetic Fields and Health/ Availability of Products/ Spam E-Mails / Phone Calls from Fraudsters/ Privacy/ Hackers and Computer Viruses/ Pornographic Web Content/ Socioeconomic Impact of Mobile Phones/ Responsible Marketing and Advertising/ Clear and Comprehensible Payment Methods/ Law and Regulations
Environmental 
SustainabilityConserving Resources/ Recycling/ Global Warming/ Pollution/ Noise Pollution/ Digging Up Roads/ Supply Chains
Corporate 
VolunteerismHolding Activities That Beneﬁ  t Local Communities/ Protecting Places of Ecological or Cultural Signiﬁ  cance
Assisting Local 
Enterprises and 
Creating Digital 
OpportunitiesDigital Divide/ Local Community Culture/ Assisting Recently Immigrated  Women/ Disadvantaged GroupsWe believe that a rounded policy of corporate social 
responsibility needs to be evaluated from the perspectives of product stewardship, standards of service, and effect on society. The cooperation of our customers and suppliers is indispensable for achieving a successful policy, as is the full and active participation of our workforce. We also believe we can attain optimal results in carrying out our corporate social responsibility by leveraging our company’s core talents in telecommunications.
CSR Affairs
The thinking behind our prioritization of corporate so-
cial responsibility is, “Wherever there is value there is res-ponsibility.” In 2007, we took a close look at our corporate activities and prevailing social conditions and came up with the following relevant objectives for corporate social responsibility:15
No. of employees at the beginning of 2007 25,864
No. of employees at the end of 2007 24,138
Turnover Rate 4.39%Total Number of Employees and Turnover Rate for 2007Labor Relations
We ﬁ  rmly believe in maintaining an open and honest 
attitude when dealing with employees. Establishing chan-
nels of communication and negotiation has given us a mechanism by which we can engage with employees. This reinforces their loyalty to the company and improves our overall performance. Employees are the most important stakeholders in any enterprise, so labor relations and con-cern for the workforce must be at the top of any corporate governance agenda. 
Our concern for our employees manifests itself through 
our comprehensive and systematic mechanism for labor negotiations. Our labor union meets all the requirements of international and domestic labor laws, and we are the only telecom company in Taiwan that has signed a collective agreement with a union.
We regularly convene meetings of each level of labor-
management committee and the union representatives participate in monthly meetings, hiring committees, and examining committees. One of the directors on the board who represents the government’s stake in the company was also put forward by the union. Employees also have recourse to a system of claims and appeals.    
In August 2007 we took a further step in encouraging 
employee participation by setting up Chunghwa Telecom Web 2.0 Interactive Platform. In the spirit of Web 2.0, this electronic platform gives employees the opportunity to openly express opinions and dissent through forums and blogs without fear of recrimination.Employee Welfare
At Chunghwa Telecom we base our employee welfare 
system on the principles of fairness, openness and objec-tivity. We strive to meet all of our employees’ welfare needs in the hope of improving their living standards, both materially and spiritually. We believe by doing this we improve the efﬁ  ciency of our workforce, maintain cor-porate competitiveness and sustainable development, and yet at the same time fulﬁ  ll our welfare commitments to our employees. Since privatization, we have added extra beneﬁ  ts to our original welfare package, including performancebased stock awards, unpaid maternity leave payments, corporate bonuses, and proﬁ  t-sharing cash /stock option plans.
Needless to say, we fully meet all of our legal obliga-
tions to our employees, which include paid leave, pensions, National Health Insurance payments, menstrual leave, maternity leave, special payments for unpaid maternity leave, daycare facilities for children of employees, birth allowances, and rooms for feeding infants. Beyond our legal requirements, we also provide education allowances to children of employees, vacation travel allowances, death allowances, and accident and medical insurance.Total Training Expense NT$ 667,248,871Average Training Expense
Per HeadNT$ 27,643
Total Training Hours 2,023,112Average Training
Hours Per Head84Employees Training for 2007Training and Development
Our employees are our most valuable asset. At Chung-
hwa Telecom our investment in employees training in-
cludes basic telecom training, fast track training for out-standing candidates, and allowances for further training.  
Our investment in human resources is done through 
training at our three telecom training centers in northern, central, and southern Taiwan. Eight courses are conducted annually in telecom expertise and management. The total number of training hours our employees ratcheted up in 2007 was 2,023,112, at a cost to the company of NT$667,248,871.
We are acutely aware of the need to cultivate the next 
generation of telecom experts to ensure continued growth for the company. To this end, in 2007 we created the China Telecom Training Plan for Outstanding Talent to select ex-ceptional mid and upper managers to do on-the-job training at graduate schools in universities around Taiwan. The purpose of the plan is to give these managers a broader, deeper overview of the telecom industry to enable them to take up key positions in the future. Academic exchanges with other top brains from Taiwan’s corporate elite should also nurture a greater understanding of theory and practice among these managers, putting them in good stead to push the company forward as the second generation of Chunghwa Telecom leaders.
Employees who meet the conditions set out in Chung-
hwa Telecom’s Criteria for Employees Wishing to Pursue Tertiary Education can apply for a grant which amounts to a maximum of NT$20,000 per semester. In 2007 we handed out NT$14,752,898 to 1,479 employees to assist in their pursuit of knowledge and technical expertise that will help them on their career paths.17Health and Safety
No. of Employees Given Health Checks 23,378
% of Workforce Given Health Checks 96.85%
Cost of Health Checks NT$ 37,404,800
Accident Rate 0.195%Employee Health and Safety Statistics for 2007Providing a healthy and safe working environment is 
one of our responsibilities to our workers. We budget for 
employee health checks annually; in 2007, 96.85% of our employees had a health check. Our goal though is nothing short of 100%, and analyzing the data garnered from health checks is helping us to plan and implement policies that will promote good health among our workforce. 
In 2007 there were 47 reported cases of occupational 
accidents, leading to total of 7,716 workdays lost. Of these, 15 were trafﬁ  c accidents, or about a third of the total. Generally speaking, the occurrence of occupational accidents, at 0.195%, was slightly lower in 2007 than in previous years. Our goal remains a zero rate of occupational accidents, and we are working toward it by raising the awareness of our employees toward occupa-tional safety, and strengthening our occupational health and safety policies. Looking to the future, we will continue in our effort to 
raise the awareness of our employees toward occupational safety and will continue buying the insurance policies that we already have. As a large corporation that faces ﬁ  erce competition and pressure to perform well, we need to con-tinue to nurture technical expertise and knowledge in our employees. One way we do this is through our Employee Assistance Program, which also assists them in facing the challenges of rapid technological innovation.Diversity
Proportion of Female Employees 28.06%
Proportion of Female Managers 21.51%
Number of Disabled Employees 656Preferential Employment in 2007All of our employees must ﬁ  rst take the tests applicable 
to the job they apply for. These tests are open to the ge-
neral public and all jobs at Chunghwa Telecom are open to members of either sex. In the spirit of providing job oppor-tunities for disadvantaged groups we also allow disabled or aboriginal applicants to pass the tests with lower scores.
Once hired, employees who do the same job get the 
same pay, regardless of gender. In 2007, 1,996 employees left the company and 273 new employees were recruited, for a turnover rate of 4.39%. 
Employment of Women
In 2007 our workforce totaled 24,138, of which 6,774 
were women or 28.06% of the total. Of these, 2,184 were in lower management, occupying 23.05% of lower management positions. There were 380 women in mid management, which is 16.24% of the total, and 52 senior managers. This last ﬁ  gure was the same as for 2006, but as a result of corporate restructuring and employees changing positions, the proportion of female senior managers actually increased from 14.6% to 15.0%. 
Employment for the Disable
Article 31, Item 2 of the Physically and Mentally Dis-
abled Citizens Protection Act states, “At least 1% of the workforce of private companies must be employees who are physically or mentally disabled.” As of December 2007 our workforce totaled 24,138, of which 656 are disabled, which is 2.7 times the legal requirement.
19Our Commitment to Corporate Governance
Our metamorphosis from being a state enterprise to being a private corporation competing in an open 
market occurred just as revolutionary telecom technologies in the form of mobile phones and the Internet 
were bursting onto the scene. Let us explain how transformations in the business environment and in our own corporate structure led to the necessity for changes in the way we run the company.
Despite the fact that some of our employees, in concert with their union, took numerous protest actions 
against the changes, we always held ﬁ  rm in our belief that opposition is an unavoidable pothole on the road to agreement. Corporations nowadays face intense market competition and proﬁ  t has to be at the forefront of 
long-term corporate planning. We believe that we have succeeded in reaching a common understanding with our employees as has been proven by our operations performance in 2007.
To our way of thinking, corporate governance is not just a question of ﬁ  nancial performance: corporate 
social responsibility and genuine concern for employees is also of paramount importance. In our internal report System Changes and Employees we linked ﬁ  nancial performance and restructuring to indirectly explain the effects brought about by the changes we have instigated.
Our Corporate Governance Code covers the operations of the board of directors and corporate ethics. Of 
even greater importance to us though is corporate social responsibility, which we have now made an integral part of our corporate governance framework through the establishment of the CSR committee. 
As for our concern for our employees, it can be clearly seen in our labor relations and levels of employee 
participation, not to mention the beneﬁ  ts and training that we offer. Our health checks, low occupational ac-cident rates, high proportion of female managers and high levels of employment for disabled workers also testify to our concern.
We are acutely aware that corporate social responsibility is an ongoing process rather than something 
that can be attained overnight. Although we cannot honestly claim to have done all there is to be done, we are conﬁ  dent that we will improve in the future. At the heart of meaningful corporate social responsibility is engagement with stakeholders, and our employees are our most important stakeholders. They are the key players in promoting corporate social responsibility. In recognition of this fact, we are committed to respecting collective bargaining procedures and deepening the dialogue we have established with the labor union.In the past, Chunghwa Telecom was the sole provider of telecom ser-
vices in Taiwan. As such we were at the heart of economic and social deve-
lopment on the island. Nowadays, we think in terms of valued customers rather than just “the democracy,” and have a more heightened awareness of our role as a service provider. Based on this reasoning, bearing customer trust and expectations naturally gives rise to a sense of responsibility and gratitude. This creates the momentum for us to continually seek ways to improve our levels of service.
In tandem with the spread of the Internet and the digitalization of tele-
com and broadcasting networks, consumers are fi  nding that telecom pro-viders are having a deeper and more meaningful impact on their lives. The function of telecom providers is no longer just to connect people: we now help our customers create business opportunities and their own ideal lifestyles. The interaction is reciprocal: we must evolve to keep up with our customers’ needs, and our vision brings fresh ideas to our customers’ lives, whether at home or at work. 
We will continue to improve our standards by providing faster, more 
convenient services that are effi  cient, timely, economical and creative. In keeping with the times, we are putting a lot of thought into how to help our customers use the Internet to conserve resources and reduce their car-bon footprint by offering low-carbon products. We believe that by raising awareness of global warming among our customers we can hasten the day when energy effi  ciency is the norm. 
We built up a good reputation in the past by providing universal service 
for all. We hope, in the future, through good service and corporate social responsibility in thought and action we will become a respected brand that the people of Taiwan can be proud of.
Customer Service
Our concern for consumers makes 
us optimal partners for the new era of technology.
The content of this section includes: 
• Customer Service Channels• Integrated Billing and Electronic Billing • Protection of Privacy• Anti-Fraud Measures• Rules Of Conduct for Sales and Marketing Staff• Consumer Satisfaction Surveys• Electromagnetic Fields• Safe Surfi  ng Guard21We operate on the principle that the customer comes 
fi  rst. Care for our consumers has manifested itself in 
some of the services we have set up in recent years. These include a consumer hotline that is open 24 hours a day every day of the year, an online “counter” staffed by technical experts, and various complaints channels that guarantee replies within a given time limit. We also continue to open new service centers that operate during and after normal offi  ce hours. Our aim as ever is to speedily, effi  ciently and effectively meet our customers’ telecom requirements. 
In addition to our own service centers that provide a 
one-stop sales service, we are actively seeking to sign agreements with SENAO Co. (one of our offshoots) and other agents to allow them to act as our service centers. In this way we aim to build up a dense network of centers to make it even easier for our customers to reach us. As of December 2007, we now have 467 service centers in densely-populated urban areas include 319 are our own sales centers and 148 are operated under agreement by agents. Of our own sales centers, 37 are open at night, 67 are open on Saturdays, and 7 are open on Sundays; all of the 148 outsourced service centers are open at night and on weekends. We intend in the future to adjust service times at each of our centers in accordance with local cus-tomers’ working hours to offer maximum convenience.
Call Centers - Our call centers offer one-stop solutions 
– “One call solves everything” - for all of our customers’ needs. We call this the 3Q approach – quick, quality service with plenty of EQ. Our call centers offer friendly advice - 24 hours a day, all year round - on installations, changing address, billing, sales, faults, complaints, reconnections, and any other query the customer may have. Improvements to this service are refl  ected in the numbers of customers expressing satisfaction on surveys. Customer Service Channels
Online Services - All of our services and information on 
them are also offered online through our website (http://
www.cht.com.tw). Sales information and the addresses of service centers are also available online, as are information on rates, rate changes, payment options, changing a billing address, call logs, and our corporate policy. Application forms can also be downloaded from the website. 
Diverse Payment Options- We are continually adding 
more ways for our valued customers to pay their bills. Infor-mation on these options can be found on the back of bills, in phone directories, by calling our hotlines, and also on our website. Our customers can currently pay their bills on the spot at our sales centers and agent centers, and at banks, post offi  ces, and convenience stores. They can also settle their accounts by accessing our website or using our emome mobile phone web service, by bank transfer – either from an account, or by credit/ ATM card – or by calling our billing hotline or our 412-6666 voice-activated transfer ser-vice.  
Diverse Complaints Channels – Customers with com-
plaints can go to our service centers or call one of our de-dicated hotlines (for complaints about fi  xed lines 123, mobile phones 0800-080090, broadband 0800-080412, international calls 0800-080100). Should customers have a complaint about the behavior of our employees they can call another dedicated number, 0800-080998, or send us a letter or e-mail. Our customer complaints handling system then ensures that the complaint is handled by the relevant department, who will assign a dedicated member of staff to deal with the case and give a reply within a set time.Integrated Billing and Electronic Billing
We are acutely aware of the need to protect the natural 
environment, so we have been working hard the last few 
years to be in a position to now give our customers just one paper bill. This has the twin benefi  ts of greatly reducing the amount of paper we use and giving our customers the convenience of having all of their billing information on one sheet of paper. We have completely changed parts of our marketing and operating procedures to accommodate a new billing system that we developed in-house. The fi  rst step was to combine the bills for local calls from two or more landline numbers registered to the same user. Then we added the billing for digital and mobile services to the system, an undertaking that required a lot of hard work from employees in our research facility and various branch offi  ces. By 2001,we offered consolidated billing for 
“Use E-Roads, not Paved Roads”
In Taiwan, the average amount of CO2 emitted per person per annum is 120,000 tonnes, 
which is three times higher than the global average. In an attempt to reduce our carbon footprint 
and save resources, “Use E-Roads, not Paved Roads” has evolved from being one of our sales mottos into a plan of action. 
We now have integrated billing and e-billing, and we have digitalized our offi  ce operations 
by using e-mail whenever possible to send out documents to our staff. We assisted the police, the tax offi  ce, and Kaohsiung Harbor Authority to digitalize their operations. We also helped with the digital upgrading of the national land administration system so that it is now possible to get information about land deeds online. All of the organizations involved have been greatly surprised by the substantial savings in transport and paper expenses. 
We will continue to help our customers use the Internet to conserve resources and reduce their 
carbon footprint by offering low-carbon products. We believe that by raising awareness among our customers about global warming we can bring on the day when energy effi  ciency is an integral 
part of the lifestyle of all of the citizens of Taiwan.our customers who use multiple services, and by the end of December 2007, 82% of our customers were receiving just one paper bill monthly, which has reduced our annual consumption of billing paper by around 180 million sheets.
Our commitment to protecting the environment by using 
less paper was reinforced in August of 2005 when our e-billing system came online. This secure and convenient system allows our customers to check for, and pay, outstanding bills online, as well as gives breakdowns of all billed items, all services that our many Internetsavvy customers require. As of the end of December 2007, 1.18 million of our customers have adopted our e-billing system, saving us an extra 2.2 billion sheets of paper annually.23Protection of Privacy
In order to prevent our employees or contractors from 
gaining unauthorized access to customers’ personal details from our data systems, we have implemented the following security measures:
Legal Provisions
1. Documents containing customers’ personal details are 
labeled “Highly Confi  dential.”
2. All of our employees must sign a confi  dentiality 
agreement. Employees who access or divulge customers’ personal details without authorization are punished according to regulations. Managers who allow such transgressions to occur by failing to properly supervise employees are also held responsible.
3. All agents and outside contractors, including their 
employees, who may have access to our records must sign confi  dentiality agreements that spell out their legal obligations.  
Protecting Customers’ Personal 
Details
Rights of access to our customers’ personal details are 
strictly controlled. Our employees can only access this information while on duty and after gaining the right level of system user rights from their supervisor. Complete records of access to and use of the information are maintained. 
Systems Management
1. To prevent our customers’ personal details from being 
copied or divulged, the employees who work with this information cannot use portable drives or send e-mails on their computers (but they can still receive e-mails). While on duty they are also only allowed to access websites that are directly related to their work, and are forbidden to make or take calls on their cell phones.  2. We have a system of customer information ma-
nagement that requires managers to do daily checks on the records of all the information their employees have accessed. This also enables managers to see whether employees are working as they should. 
3. Whenever employees quit or are transferred to another 
position, their system user rights are immediately revoked to prevent exemployees from divulging customers’ personal details. Checking our system of customer confi  dentiality is also one of the items on our regular and irregular systematic audits of information security throughout the company.
Internal Controls
1. Each of our branch offi  ces is required to submit a half-
yearly report on how they are maintaining customer confi  dentiality. Customer confi  dentiality is also part of their systematic audits of information security.
2. Customer application forms and copies of their identity 
papers must be locked in dedicated cabinets when not in use.
3. Auditors from Chunghwa Telecom’s head offi  ce and 
the branch offi  ces carry out on-the-spot checks on information security at our offi  ces and service centers. 
Guidance
We constantly remind our employees of the importance of customer confi  dentiality and of the legal sanctions that divulging customers’ personal details incur. This is done through holding guidance meetings and displaying written warnings prominently in our offi  ces.Anti-Fraud Measures
One of the ways we show our concern for our custo-
mers is by sending all prospective phone customers a letter 
asking them to verify their identity, which greatly reduces billing identity fraud. To prevent phone numbers on bills being called by fraudsters and other criminal elements, our policy of guaranteeing consumer information confi  dentiality also means that we now no longer automatically list private numbers on bills. Instead, we now offer our customers the option of having them listed.
We also guarantee to repay our customers for calls 
made illegally in their names, either from people tapping into their fi  xed lines or stealing their identity from us, or any other disputed calls that we can verify. When a customer loses their ID card and notifi  es any of our service centers, their details are put on a black list and anyone who attem-pts to apply for a phone number at another address has to undergo extra background checks. 
We at Chunghwa Telecom have also been paying close 
attention to the widespread problem of telephone fraud that has caused a lot of suffering in recent years. As such, we have followed NCC directives and cooperated with the Criminal Investigation Bureau in setting up the Joint Service Platform. Since the end of 2007 our employees have been busy setting up the 165 anti-fraud hotline that can handle up to 60,000 calls per month. It is estimated that this service will cost the company NT$21.6 million annually.
When members of the public call the 165 hotline during 
peak hours (8am ～8pm on working days) they fi  rst hear a 
message asking them to choose between talking to one of our employees and reporting a crime. We initially take all calls and deal with any queries about telephone fraud, but if the caller wishes to report a crime the call is immediately transferred to the police. Doing this avoids causing the caller the inconvenience of having to repeat themselves, and also gives the police the chance to stop any bank transfers to the fraudsters.Rules of Conduct for Sales 
and Marketing Staff
In order to improve the quality of our marketing and 
reduce the instances of complaints and disputes from our 
customers, at the end of 2007 we laid out a set of rules for sales and marketing staff to abide by. The rules have been drawn up by senior management in accordance with the law and cover advertising, articles and leafl  ets, and person-to-person sales. They state that our sales staff are not allowed to distort the truth or mislead potential customers, nor are they permitted to denigrate other companies or their products in order to achieve sales targets. When trying to make a sale they must not use pressure tactics or any other form of unfair behavior and any advertising content must be backed up by solid proof that all promises put forth in the advertisement will be fulfi  lled.
When engaging in telesales, our employees must 
strictly abide by the rules laid down by the Fair Trade Com-mission, Executive Yuan. These rules set out the upper limits for the values of free gifts and prizes that sales staff can offer, and state that sales staff cannot claim to be able to lower call rates or billed amounts. Neither can they claim to be able to cancel charges or otherwise compensate for line installations and rental charges. Our sales staffs are also strictly forbidden from offering employee special deals or discounts to disqualifi  ed customer in order to infl  ate their sales fi  gures. We have made it our practice at Chunghwa Telecom that new marketing strategies, sales information, and rules of conduct are speedily handed down to the relevant departments to ensure that our employees always have the most recently updated information at hand when serving our customers.
165 
HotlineChunghwa 
Telecom 
Customer
Service 
RepresentativePolice 
Hotline
25Customer Satisfaction 
Surveys
In order to understand our customers’ levels of satis-
faction with our service we carry out three surveys annual-
ly: one for individual consumers, one for large enterprise clients, and one for small/medium enterprise clients. Doing this enables us to learn more about which aspects of our service concern our customers the most and to make improvements.
We use the positive evaluations given by our customers 
to establish targets for our levels of service, which include learning targets that we guide and encourage all of our operations staff to work toward and which we incorporate into the employee performance evaluations for the year. For the few instances of declines in levels of customer satisfaction, we immediately begin a process of active in-vestigation and analysis to search for ways to correct the shortcomings.
Working to improve our standards of service we have 
started to implement standardized counter operations in order to be accredited with SGS Quality certifi  cation. In 2007, our Changhua and Keelung operations offi  ces set fi  ne examples for the other offi  ces by gaining SGS Qua-licert international service quality certifi  cation. We are cur-rently implementing a two-stage program for 2008 and 2009 to gain accreditation for all of our offi  ces.Electromagnetic Fields
Our base stations are built in accordance with the 
regulations promulgated by Taiwan’s NCC and the Elec-tromagnetic Fields (EMF) generated by the base stations had been thoroughly checked by the Environmental Pro-tection Administration (EPA). The levels of the EMF come within the limits set by the NCC and EPA.
We believe it is in our interests to educate the local 
populace with regards to the effects of EMF. To this end, we joined with National Taiwan University (NTU) and the Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA) to invite experts from the World Health Organization (WHO), the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), America’s Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) to come to Taiwan to give talks on the latest fi  nd-ings from research into EMF and health issues. The invited experts all reiterated the conclusions in Fact Sheet No. 304 from the WHO EMF Project: considering the very low exposure levels and research results collected to date, there is no convincing scientifi  c evidence that the weak RF signals from base stations and wireless networks cause adverse health effects.
We have worked hard by way of the electronic and 
printed media, leafl  ets, and websites showing coverage map, to disabuse the public of any misconceptions con-cerning base station EMF. We have also held public talks island wide and sponsored activities to promote under-standing of EMF issues. Last but not least, we have joined forces with other mobile phone operators to establish EMF complaint hotlines. By calling these hotlines, residents who live close to the base stations can get explanations and assurances from our experts, who will also arrange for EMF measuring to be carried out if deemed necessary.
Customer Satisfaction Surveys
Chunghwa Telecom Customer Satisfaction Surveys are outsourced by Market Research Company each year.5
4
3
2
1
0
Large Enterprise Clients
Small and Medium Enterprise Clients
Individual Consumers2004
4.4 4.59 4.65 4.7
3.8 4.55 4.7 4.4
3.884.4
3.83.88
3.774.59
4.55
3.77
3.94.654.7
3.9
3.84.7
4.4
3.8
2005 2006 20075 = Very Satisfi  ed
4 = Satisfi  ed3 = Neutral2 = Dissatisfi  ed1 = Very Dissatisfi  edSafe Surfing Guard
We all like the convenience of being able to access 
web pages easily, but unfortunately on internet, we can 
find too much harmful and malignant information not being appropriate to every browser. The unsuitable internet con-tents are easily leading the bad influence on kids and teen-agers.
At Chunghwa Telecom we have taken steps to create 
a safe, clean accessing environment that parents can allow their children to surf to their hearts’ content free of worry. Users of HiNet now have the services of our Internet Porno Gatekeeper that is able to shield kids from those porno, violence, suicide, drugs, weapon, gamble and other harmful websites. This service, which directly intercepted by the host, no needs to download or install any software, effectively screens out over 99% of harmful web pages. In 2007, our policy of corporate social responsibility and helping disadvantaged groups led us to donate a year of free use of Internet Porno Gatekeeper services to 1,000 schools in remote areas, to the Child Welfare League Foundation, and to the welfare organization Passion Family.We also provide the Online Time Management 
service to guard and support kids’ healthy body and mind development with parents. This service gives parents the option of controlling how much time their children spend online during each session in the hope of preventing internet addiction. We are committed to helping parents and schools see the importance of correct surfing habits among children so that parents can have the peace of mind of knowing that their children are using the Internet in a safe way. Our commitment is also to the welfare groups that work with us in creating a healthy Internet environment for disadvantaged groups to enjoy.
27This section about customer service channels has touched upon our traditional service operations as well 
as the newer call counters and online counters that have gone a long way toward saving time for our custo-
mers and reducing their carbon footprint. It also mentioned how our integrated billing and electronic billing systems have greatly reduced the amount of paper that we consume.  It also described the strict methods we have adopted to ensure our customers’ private protection, and how we have set up and funded the 165 antifraud hotline that we operate in conjunction with the police.
This section also explained our rules for marketing behavior, customer satisfaction surveys and how we 
push an industry-wide operators to raise awareness about EMF issues. Last but not least, it mentioned how our Anti-porn Guard gives parents the peace of mind of knowing that their children are surfi  ng a safe web 
environment. Other contributions we have made to society that were not mentioned include the EduCities “virtual city” learning platform, coastal radio beacons to support sea rescue operations, and donations to charities of the proceeds from auctions of hot phone numbers. 
As Taiwan’s largest telecom operator it is our duty to improve the overall quality of life on the island and 
give value to our customers by providing an effective and convenient service of the highest quality. This means that we can never sit back on our laurels, but must take advantage of the fl  exibility of ICT industries toward 
promoting creative solutions. Like our customers, we are concerned about global warming and climate change, so we are now focusing on using the service potential of Internet technology to create marketing strategies based on saving resources and using less fossil fuel.
Our hope is that by implementing an in-house carbon inventory program and analyzing information on CO
2 
emissions we will be able to give our customers a rough idea of the carbon footprint created by each telecom service we provide. Our motto remains “Use E-Roads, not Paved Roads,” and we are using more accurate data to develop new service products that achieve carbon offsetting and give our customers the option of leading a low-carbon lifestyle in a low-carbon economy.Our Commitment to Customer ServiceModern technological advancements are stimulating economic develop-
ment at an unprecedented pace, and the new era of a global village has 
already become well established. Unfortunately, this economic develop-ment also has a downside as the gap between the rich and poor continues to widen, and the digital era has brought with it a digital divide leaving educational and employment inequalities in its wake.
Confronting this issue requires more than just providing broadband 
Internet service, hardware equipment, and information technology training. It is essential to provide people in remote areas and low incomes with digital skills, thus empowering them with the ability to pursue personal employment opportunities and actualize the visions of sustainable develop-ment within their communities. 
Since 2003 the concept of “creating digital opportunities” has been 
actively initiated throughout the world in efforts to reduce the digital divide. A diverse array of digital opportunities exists, whether they be economic, cultural, educational, or even healthcare. However, at the heart of this plan is a conviction to instill all communities with the ability to actualize digital opportunities based on their unique characteristics and needs.  
When we made the decision to assist communities in creating digital 
opportunities we carefully considered our commitment and how we could integrate it with the core capacities of our enterprise. We knew that by effectively utilizing the heart of our enterprise’s specialization the benefi  ts 
from our efforts could be exponentially increased, and our plans could pro-gressively continue into the future.
The ubiquitous nature of our communication network and platform is the 
most unique aspect of our core capacities, as our operational branches and employees extend throughout reaches of the nation. Therefore, the key for us is to fully utilize this vantage by integrating our network and platform with the capacities of over 20,000 employees.
Digital Opportunities
We are committed to using our net-
work and technological capacities to improve communication for disadvan-taged peoples and those living in re-mote areas.
This chapter explains some of the efforts we have been undertaking 
to reduce the digital divide and create digital opportunities for disad-vantaged peoples and those in living in remote areas. The contents include Broadband Access to Every Village, Digital Good Neighbor, Corporate Volunteerism, and Click Taiwan, as well as initiatives to assist recently immigrated brides, indigenous people, low income people, and the physically and mentally disabled.29Striving to realize our corporate vision of becoming a 
leader company in social responsibility, we have utilized 
our core specialization and facilities in coordination with the National Communications Commission (NCC) plan, making data communication services available to all and actualizing efforts to reduce the digital divide between ur-ban and rural areas.     
By the end of 2006, we had already provided broad-
band connection services to 7,787 of the nation’s 7,833 villages. In 2007 we continued efforts to fulfi  ll NCC requi-rements by establishing services to an additional 43 villa-ges. These villages are located in very remote areas making efforts to lay cable extremely diffi  cult. We continue to prevail and plan to have the entire Broadband Access to Every Village project completed by February 2008. 
Once this seemingly insurmountable project is fi  nal-
ly completed Taiwan will become the world’s fi  rst nation with broadband access to every village. The NCC expre-ssed its utmost satisfaction and gratifi  cation for our efforts in complying with the Broadband Access to Every Village plan. We will continue to monitor broadband user conditions and devote our energies to improving service quality to assure that users are completely satisfi  ed with our broadband services.Broadband Access to Every Village
Year 2004 2005 2006 2007
Broadband Access Percentile of
"Broadband Access to Every Village" Plan99% 99.35% 99.68% 99.99%
Note: The Broadband Access Percentile successfully reached 100% in February 2008.Utilizing Creativity to Overcome 
Challenges
To actualize this extremely diffi  cult endeavor, we 
have mobilized vast human resources to overcome the 
challenging terrain, road conditions, and weather. We have united the energies of cable communications, broadband access, and network maintenance specialists in utilizing wireless broadband and optical fi  ber technology. We started by fi  rst designing a simulated tribal environment experimental Internet system and after persistent review, experimentation, and simulation we developed an integra-ted wireless local and broadband Internet access plan. We also designed photovoltaic panels as backup energy sources in some mountainous regions prone to natural di-sasters and unstable electricity supply. 
We try our best to conduct all of our operational 
activities with the premise of preserving the integrity of the natural ecosystem. The same is true in our efforts to overcome the challenges faced in establishing commu-nications in remote regions. We have used the most advanced wireless broadband technology to provide re-mote areas with local telephone and Internet services in accordance with the NCC concerns for disadvantaged peoples and making telecommunications services avail-able to everyone. By doing so we have also actualized the government’s objective of reducing the digital divide between urban and rural areas.Digital Good Neighbor
We have 24,000 employees working in operational 
branches extending all over the nation. Thus, we expect 
ourselves to be good neighbors in each one of these many local communities. Working to fulfi  ll our promise of creating digital opportunities, in 2006 we began the Digital Good Neighbor plan, and as of yearend 2007 a total of 16 Digital Good Neighbor sites were set up.   
In addition to installing digital hardware equipment 
at the Digital Good Neighbor sites and setting up digital classrooms, we have custom designed software content and premium Internet service to satisfy the unique aspects and needs of each community. Chunghwa Telecom em-ployee volunteers and specialist volunteers have received training on how to implement and operate a digital learning environment that has helped disadvantaged peoples nar-row the digital divide and also created digital opportunities. This program has provided community residents with the opportunity to practically utilize and apply digital skills in daily life and business, and has even helped promote com-munity sustainable development.
“Honey, you know what? You must always remember 
I will love you for ten thousand years, but you shouldn’t drink so much alcohol…Taiwan has helped me and encouraged me…I am grateful to have you…I love you like a mouse loves a big piece of rice.” This is the love letter that Mei Shi-shian wrote to her husband during computer class. When her hus-band read the love letter he was all smiles. Another immigrant mother, Feng Hwai-shiang, was a teacher in Vietnam and has been married and living in Taiwan for ten years. She has already completed beginner computer classes and wants to use video communications to communicate with her family back in Vietnam.
“Honey, you know what? You must always remember 
I will love you for ten thousand years, but you 
shouldn’t drink so much alcohol…Taiwan has helped 
me and encouraged me…I am grateful to have you…
I love you like a mouse loves a big piece of rice.” 
This is the love letter that Mei Shi-shian wrote to 
her husband during computer class. When her hus-
band read the love letter he was all smiles. Another 
immigrant mother, Feng Hwai-shiang, was a teacher 
in Vietnam and has been married and living in 
Taiwan for ten years. She has already completed 
beginner computer classes and wants to use video 
communications to communicate with her family back 
in Vietnam.
Tainan County Houbi Township
Computer Classes for Recently Immigrated Mothers
On 3 July 2007, Digital Good Neighbor computer classes were opened for recently immigrated mothers. 
As time for class approaches, mothers can be seen riding their bicycles often with a little one in the front 
basket, a bigger one sitting on the back and a baby strapped on their backs. Since the class is held at night many mothers must bring their children along to look after them while participating in class. 
Three days every week after work Chunghwa Telecom’s 18 corporate volunteers, of whom all have 
received government certifi  cation, travel to Tainan’s Jing Liao Village in Houbi Township to teach recently immigrated mothers as part of the Digital Good Neighbor plan. After more than a month of classes, the mothers have already completed beginning and immediate level classes, learning how to use basic functions, such as Word and Excel. One mother from Vietnam named Mei Shi-shian even wrote a love letter in Chinese expressing her purest love for her husband using the adage “The Mouse Loves Big Rice.”   
The learning process for these recently immigrated mothers is still underway, and we will continue to 
accompany them along the way.31Corporate Volunteerism
Our operational branches are located throughout all 
reaches of the nation and our extensive human resource 
base extends throughout all walks of life. Since enterprise is the consciousness of community residents, we con-tinually think about what we can do for society besides just providing customers with convenient and premium quality services. We think about how to inspire and motivate employees with the spirit of volunteerism and try to fi  nd ways to integrate their energies with the company’s core technologies in a manner that best benefi  ts the community. By doing so we hope to transform this vast potential into knowledge, capacity, effort, experience, skill, and time that can make signifi  cant contributions to the community residents we serve. This is the essence behind the esta-blishment of our employee volunteer team. 
We are very careful in approaching our commitment 
and have designed a well-managed and proactive Corpo-rate Volunteerism program. Supported by the company’s communication technology, human resources, and mana-gement skills, employee volunteers are encouraged to carry out volunteer services in a professional, effi  cient, and organized manner.
We continue promoting the implementation of corporate 
volunteerism and community service programs as a means of achieving our long-term objectives of reducing the communication and digital gap, protecting the environment, and assisting disadvantaged peoples.
To effi  ciently integrate resources we have adopted 
an institutionalized approach (volunteer service plan of action, recruiting, training, management, assessment, and rewards), systemization (establishing an employee bank), and standardization (integrating core business services, popularizing the employee volunteer services, and long-term planning). We vigorously encourage employee parti-cipation in volunteer activities that provides support to the disadvantaged and promotes community development.  
Actually, our telecommunications employees located 
throughout all corners of Taiwan have been actively involved in community public welfare services for the past 20～30 years. These ongoing efforts have helped improve 
the quality of life in communities and worked to quietly establish an era of citizen action and responsibility. For example, our communication line maintenance work has opened up possibilities for homeless children to fi  nd love and shelter in a foster family. The Chunghwa Telecom Candlelight Team was established to provide care for the elderly living alone and assistance to family support cen-ters. The Digital Good Neighbor Program reaches deep into the fabric of the community with its Changhua Little Charcoal Team; and our Project Hope has been assisting indigenous peoples’ youth pursue academic studies for the past 21 years.
Even though our institutionalized corporate volunteerism 
has offi  cially just begun and public response is still not in regarding our services, we continue working hard to cultivate creative innovations and promote efforts to actua-lize sustainable operations. We encourage employees to take the initiative in coming up with broad ranging, long-term plans for the employee service program on their own, and to utilize successful models that can be reproduced and implemented at other operational branches. In this way, our employee volunteer services will be able to reach all disadvantaged groups throughout the nation. We hope the establishment of this employee volunteer service model will inspire more enterprises to join our common goal by investing in society and cultivating the volunteer spirit.Reduce the Communications and Digital Gap 
We effectively utilize the company’s core specialized 
technologies to set up computer classrooms in remote 
villages and open up opportunities to utilize digital applica-tions. These efforts will help to reduce the communication and digital gaps that exist among urban and rural regions, gender, age, walk of life, recent immigrants, the physically and mentally disabled, and other disadvantaged groups in society.
Community Services
Utilizing the full capacity of the company’s resources, 
we take the initiative to actively organize and participate in community public welfare activities, and provide services that enhance quality of life. Corporate Volunteerism Scope
  A Blind Family  Experiencing the Same Joys
We continue working hard to assist the visually impaired 
cross the e-info/Internet communication bridge. Since 1986, we 
have been conducting research on unimpaired communication technologies that opens up new horizons of possibilities and discovery for the visually impaired. These technologies include visually impaired cell phone audio news briefs, visually im-paired wireless applications, unimpaired webpage navigation, visually impaired computer software design, spontaneous internet communications, an unimpaired text reader, and a wireless mobile audio library. Our responsibility to society extends beyond utilizing the heart of our specialized techno-logies to reduce the communications gap existing between the physically disabled. We infuse an otherwise emotionless communications technology with a vitality that expresses con-cern and meaning.
The Second Largest Purplespotted Butterﬂ  y Haven in the World
In early Autumn of 2005 a group of veteran communica-
tions service colleagues from all parts of Taiwan participated 
for the fi  rst time in the breathtaking splendor of the purple-spotted butterﬂ  y migration. The fi  rst time to feel the subtle pat-ter of the purplespotted butterﬂ  y on one’s hand; the fi  rst time to survey, superscript, and mark the purplespotted butterﬂ  y. Researchers from the Butterﬂ  y Conservation Society of Taiwan even confi  rmed that we have observed the biggest ﬂ  ourishing butterﬂ  y haven in southern Taiwan. In the future, we will work to more effectively utilize telecommunications resources by concentrating the energies of employee volun-teers and customers throughout the nation. This will ensure that their concern for the local culture and natural ecology are directly channeled into societal contributions.
Cultural Concern
We assist groups in society to preserve their history 
and culture, stimulate tourism and economic opportunities, 
and implement programs that truly care for disadvantaged peoples. 
Environmental Protection
We coordinate with the enterprise sustainable develop-
ment plan and continue to manifest our enterprises efforts to reduce the pace of global warming by promoting the “Di-gital Forests in the Optical Era” campaign.33Assisting Recently Immigrated Women
Out of every 3.1 marriages registered in Taiwan, one 
involves a foreign national or mainland Chinese national; 
and out of every 7.5 mothers who bear children, one is born to a foreign national or mainland Chinese national spouse (according to October 2006 data from the Ministry of Interior Department of Household Registration Affairs). Recently immigrated women have already become a signi-fi  cant sector in Taiwan’s society. They quietly reside in the hearth of Taiwan’s households, handling family affairs and offering their youthful vitality to the future of the nation. However, once these recently immigrated women marry into a foreign country, the challenge for society is to fi  gure out the best way to provide education that assists them in the acculturation process and teaches basic language skills, family-rearing concepts, and employment skills.   
We have closely evaluated this situation in Taiwan’s 
society, and are actively involved in assisting recently immigrated women overcome these barriers by providing educational resources that help them adapt to life in Taiwan and cultivate family-rearing skills. We utilize cooperation opportunities between industry and academia to integrate the three initiatives of enterprise organization, educational mechanisms, and public welfare groups. This partnership works in coordination to research and produce video 
MOD Audiovisual Services Structure of Assisting Recently Immigrated Women
Recently 
Immigrated WomenVillage Activity 
Center or Offi  ceChunghwa Telecom 
MODDigital Audiovisual 
Education Material
Physical 
ClassroomsSchools
Chunghwa Telecom 
Foundation Volunteer 
GroupAdvanced Classes - Two Way Learning
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation
＋
Local Village LeadersBeginners Class 
One Way LearningCurriculum Design Bilingual FacultyEducation Material
Production
National Chiayi UniversityTaichung Branch 
Offi  ceeducation and outreach materials. Free MOD audiovisual 
services are provided to every village activity center for use in class instruction. We also cooperate with local village leaders, tapping into their social networks and spheres of inﬂ  uence to encourage recently immigrated women in the community to attend classes in their local activity centers by way of overcoming resistance from family members and gain their support.   
We offer a specialized curriculum that ranges from 
beginners on up to advanced classes and from basic language skills to family-rearing education. To enhance learning effectiveness, we use MOD audiovisual to provide interactive instruction for reading and writing characters and professional counseling services supported by public welfare groups. There are about 100 modules with each module lasting 15 minutes in whole courses.
The resources we provide assist recently immigrated 
women to improve their Mandarin listening, speaking, and reading skills. These communication skills are essential in helping them build friendships, share experiences with others, and cultivating an enriched understanding of the local custom and citizenry.Taiwan Indigenous Peoples 
Tribal Portal Site
The Taiwan Indigenous Peoples Tribal Portal Site was 
designed by Mr. Gao, Chihsiang, the General Administra-
tive Director of Dewu Elementary School, who devoted his own free time away from school to make this project happen. Mr. Gao believes that each tribe should be respon-sible for recording their own tribal traditions and folklore. Only through the spirit of the people can this Indigenous Peoples Tribal Portal Site truly be rooted in the vitality of its culture.   
To assist this Taiwan Indigenous Peoples Tribal Portal 
Site project, we have recruited volunteers from each Chunghwa Telecom operational branch to hold discussions with tribes throughout the nation to explain the project’s objective. We also provide second-hand computers and broadband service that gives tribal peoples the opportunity to utilize the web’s resources to set up a website for their tribe and record their own tribal folklore. By the end of 2007, we have already assisted indigenous tribes in remote villages set up 44 “tribal websites”. 
The goal of this plan: 
1. Allow tribal members studying or working away from 
home to access this website and receive tribal informa-tion.
2. Use this portal site to improve digital information skills of 
all tribal residents.
3. Establish an interactive platform among indigenous peo-
ples.
4. Allow tribal members to discuss their tribal affairs and 
address the needs of their tribes. 
The Ali and Chiamu tribes of Pingtung County tribe 
have already resolved the longstanding issue of lacking broadband access and not being able to get online. Fuyin tribe elders and women have opened up various computer classes and currently teachers are assisting a group of children in learning to record tribal traditions and lifestyles, as well as sharing thoughts concerning tribal affairs.Low Income Household 
Broadband Internet Premium
We care about low income households, and try to make 
it possible for disadvantaged peoples in society to access 
information on the Internet and attain premium public tele-phone services too. We provide a special low rate on broadband internet services to low income households (the fees of circuit and internet access are NT$199/month) and a premium public telephone calling card (free providing NT$600 worth of public telephone cards annually).
Broadband Internet Premium
Public Telephone Calling Card Premium6,000
2004 2005 2006 2007 (FY)1,7085,000
4,0003,0002,0001,000
02,646
7901,6073,433
1,9813,8834,400
User No.35Physically and Mentally Disabled 
Information System
In efforts to serve our fellow physically and mentally 
disabled citizens, we make no consideration of costs in 
conducting research on the Physically and Mentally Dis-abled Information System and Multi-Function Integrated Intelligence Input and Output System. These efforts have effectively satisfi  ed the special needs of visually impair-ed citizens, allowing them to receive an unimpaired ﬂ  ow of communication, mutually enjoy a full spectrum of Internet resources, enhance learning and employment opportunities, improve quality of life, and increase their level of independence.Physically and Mentally Disabled 
Broadband Internet Premium
We provide the physically and mentally disabled with 
premium internet services (a 5% discount on monthly ADSL 
fees) and have designed a customized Care Package series just for them. In addition to providing premium low rate domestic cell phone service fees, we also offer monthly fee rates that are twice as low as the normal rate, which gives visually, hearing, and vocally impaired applicants double the premium on domestic communications services. They can choose either the 2G “88 option” or 3G “183 option,” and in addition we double the value of the original low monthly rates on domestic communications (NT$88 or NT$183) providing NT$176 or NT$366 of service at the same low cost. The visually and hearing impaired can further deduct their low rates on domestic general speech and news brief communications based on personal communications use, as well as deduct domestic visual telephone and data services communications fees with the 3G plan.
Handicapped DancerClick Taiwan website officially went online in October 
2006. As of the end of 2007, the contents included 83 
community cultural enterprises and 72 special community stories, a total of 155 significant community inputs. Each community provided text and pictures to introduce a breadth of language text and pictorial introductions. From these participants, 100 communities will be selected to film documentaries that will be placed on the Click Taiwan website. In addition, Click Taiwan includes a video blog in hopes that this platform can increase inter- and intracom-munity exchanges, as well as interactions between the public and their communities. 
For more information about Click Taiwan go to
http://www.clicktaiwan.com.tw
Touring Taiwan
Stories about local life and culture can be written and 
shared on the Click Taiwan website. In November 2007, the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation and the Tourism Bureau, Ministry of Transportation and Communications, joined efforts to organize the Touring Taiwan and Tell Your Story activity with the focus being “in search of Taiwan’s beauty and intrigue”. We specially invited 50 renowned literary figures to write travel stories in hopes that their keen powers of observation and captivating skills of depiction ignite the passion of travel and encourage more of the public to experience the wonders of traveling throughout Taiwan. 
Aside from those notable figures, we have invited 150 
people who have traveled extensively throughout Taiwan to share their candid personal experiences on click Taiwan website.
Click Taiwan
Click Taiwan represents a part of Chunghwa Telecom’s 
heart that is devoted to local society. We hope this website 
helps people realize Taiwan is much more than just small dot on the map. A very unique historical background and geographical location have shaped Taiwan’s development and established its identity. Many communities in particular have been accumulating vitality throughout the years from their traditional culture, local industry, and the resident’s down-to-earth, kindhearted spirit. However, a majority of the youth move to urban areas to pursue opportunities, leaving the small village communities with a void that continues to grow.   
If this trend continues to exacerbate, all of the 
indigenous peoples will have to move to the city. The Dawu tribe will live in government housing, everything will have that same commercialized, formulaic look. Taiwan will lose much of its treasured cultural and historical assets. In this global era, Taiwan does not possess any special natural resources or a cheap labor supply. Everything must be gained through ingenuity and self confidence. Technology offers a mechanism for talented people to stay in their communities where they can continue to be nourished by their traditional culture. This is the only way that urban and rural areas can mutually enjoy balanced development and skilled workers can enjoy greater potential for personal development.
The Click Taiwan website was set up in hopes of 
constructing an active, multidimensional community website platform so that everyone can search for information, share news, and develop business opportunities. We hope the inherent vitality of Taiwan, especially that from within communities, will forever thrive. Chunghwa Telecom hopes that its international telephone services will allow the world to hear Taiwan’s voice. In the future Click Taiwan will allow the world to not only hear Taiwan but also see it, providing a medium for interaction between Taiwan and the world.
Click Taiwan Website
We hope that the Click Taiwan website will link the 
potential of the entire nation with the special qualities of community enterprises and community stories. By creating an interactive platform that each community can share and a communication bridge that connects communities to society, this website will work to greater assistance in publicizing and developing Taiwan community enterprises.  37We have devoted vast amounts of human and material resources to assist the government complete the 
Broadband Access to Every Village plan. This has been an important milestone in our efforts to reduce the 
digital divide. Our primary objective in establishing the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation is to promote efforts to reduce the digital gap and assist communities in nurturing their cultural assets.  
The Digital Good Neighbor is a customized plan that strives to satisfy the unique needs of each community. 
Since 2006 the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation has promoted projects in 16 different communities. Prior to being chosen for participation in this plan, we conduct meticulous research, make numerous onsite inspections of each community, and extensively interact with local residents. We begin drafting and taking steps to im-plement the plans only when we are certain that local residents are truly in need of special assistance for communication services. We integrate the human and material resources of the community, carrying out the plan step-by-step and making revisions along the way if necessary. It is the result of this exhaustingly detailed process that ensures effective implementation and the ongoing interactions with the community that assures successful results.
We have many colleagues with diverse professional backgrounds whom over the years have enthusiasti-
cally participated in community service efforts. In 2007, we established the Corporate Volunteerism project to provide a means for these enthusiastic employees to pursue active involvement in community activities with even greater vigor. Propelled by this project’s organized structure and detailed planning, our colleagues can fully devote their kindness and abilities, instilling the spirit of the Chunghwa Telecom’s mission within commu-nities as we help residents create more digital opportunities.   
In addition to special projects and corporate volunteer services helping to create digital opportunities, since 
2006 we have been working on the community culture website — Click Taiwan. This website contains more than community cultural assets thanks to numerous renowned literary fi  gures who have accepted invitations to 
submit their works on the website. Their contributions help elevate the status and recognition of communities in Taiwan. We offer various types of premium plans to disadvantaged peoples in hopes that the Internet can provide opportunities to all, and have also provided broadband internet service to assist indigenous tribes set up an Indigenous Peoples Tribal Portal Site. 
In the future we will continue utilizing both direct and indirect methods of assisting communities and dis-
advantaged groups apply Internet technologies to improve their communities and personal quality of life and promote the development of community and tribal cultural assets. This continues to be our unwavering com-mitment to creating digital opportunities.Our Commitment to Digital OpportunitiesAs a leader of telecommunications services in Taiwan, we have 
consistently played a special role in maintaining the sustainability of 
Taiwan’s environmental resources. Especially regarding the issue of cli-mate change, information communication technology (ICT) has always been regarded as an environmentally friendly technology as it reduces un-necessary trips and cuts down on the use of paper. Nonetheless, ICT must still bear a certain amount of responsibility in terms of its use of natural re-sources, energy consumption and waste management. 
The implementation of the Kyoto Protocol invoked awareness of the car-
bon era and adoption of low-carbon, environmentally friendly lifestyles. It is foreseeable that in the future every action we take in our lives will be related to carbon. We recognize that we can play a more active role in this issue and have thus proactively set forth practical countermeasures to shoulder our share of this global responsibility.
From our point of view, our operating bases and employees are distri-
buted all over Taiwan in order to serve the need for mobile digital lifestyles made possible by broadband mobile communications and expanded Inter-net applications. To maintain this mode of business, however, we must manage and reduce energy consumption and the potential impacts of cli-mate change on our corporation. We must also develop concrete measures to decrease CO
2 emissions through reduced energy consumption. Through 
practical strategies and actions, we and our clients can jointly seek solu-tions to ensure environmental sustainability. 
While we understand that climate change poses risks to our corporation, 
we also know that it holds in store development opportunities for business management, environmentally friendly practices, and benefi  ts for commu-nity residents. 
In the future, we will make full use of our core technology to research 
and develop more environmentally preferable products and services with smaller carbon footprints. This will enhance consumers’ awareness of the need to reduce carbon emissions and help Taiwan become a carbon-conscious society. 
Environmental
 Sustainability
Our response to climate change is 
helping to create a cleaner world.
This chapter introduces our carbon management strategy and the 
action plans and concrete outcomes we have employed to steer closer 
toward the goal of environmental sustainability.39As a telecommunications service provider, our services 
are distributed all over Taiwan making us deeply aware of 
environmental changes in Taiwan, including water resource shortages, the hazards of inappropriately disposed waste, as well as the natural disasters and changes brought about by global warming. With the establishment of the Chung-hwa Telecom CSR Committee in 2006, we have a more acute and proactive outlook that aids in the systematic promotion of environmental sustainability. Starting from our bottom line to ultimately benefi  t the ecology, we aim to provide environmentally friendly, energy and resource effi  cient telecommunications services to consumers. Our aspiration as a corporate citizen is to forever contribute to the sustainability of Taiwan’s environment.Water Resource Conservation
Taiwan receives an annual average of 2,500 mm of 
rainfall — 2.6 times the world average. Most people would surmise that we are a nation not lacking in water resources. However, due to the enormous human population, steep mountains, concentrated periods of rainfall, and short rivers, most rainfall quickly runs off into the ocean. The amount of water available per person per year is only one seventh of the world average rainfall, making Taiwan a nation with scarce water resources. 
While Chunghwa Telecom does not require a large 
amount of water like manufacture industries, we feel obli-gated to share responsibility for water conservation in this water scarce environment. In recent years, we have gradually improved the effi  ciency of our water usage and are planning rainwater and greywater reuse projects starting in 2008. We believe that these measures will have an even greater contribution toward the conservation of water resources.
2,700
2,400Water Consumption (1,000 tonnes)
2004 2005 2006 200784
8280
76
7472
Revenue Per Water Consumed
 (million NTD/1,000 tonnes)2,600
2,500
2,30078
70
68666462
Water Consumption
▲ Revenue per Water
ConsumedWater Consumption 2004 ～2007
68.670.473.481.2
2,431.22,514.92,603.82,659.8Environmental Sustainability GoalsRecycling
We are continually striving to recycle and reuse waste. 
Mixed metals are the most prevalent recyclable material 
in our business operations. In 2007, we collected 500 tonnes of standard cables and 114 tonnes of scrap metal, both of which are recyclable resources. Cooperation with our colleagues and suppliers is essential as we strive to recycle these metal resources as far as possible within the range of cost and technical feasibility.
The recycling and treatment of consumable electronic 
products has become an issue that the whole world must face together. Many products contain metals and toxic substances, making it crucial that they are collected for recycling and treatment. Foreseeing the potential for en-vironmental disaster, the EU has set forth a directive in 2006 requiring consumable electronics manufacturers to be responsible for recycling waste batteries through their retailers and fully disclose the recycling process.
Our primary industrial waste is mixed metal, a recyclable resource. We follow Taiwan’s Waste Disposal Act 
regulations on the clearance and treatment of R, D and E waste categories to ensure all industrial waste is passed 
along to qualifi  ed treatment plants. 
● R: Waste for which recycling or reuse is mandatory as announced by the EPA. 3,315 batteries in 2007.● D: Waste for which storage, clearance and treatment must comply with the General Industrial Waste Standards 
(cables and mixed metal). In 2007, Chunghwa Telecom cleared away 501 tonnes of cables and 114 tonnes of 
scrap metal. 
● E: Waste for which storage and clearance must comply with the General Industrial Waste Standards, and 
treatment must comply with the Hazardous Industrial Waste Standards (petroleum-based cables). In 2007, Chunghwa Telecom recycled 82.5 tonnes of plastic coated cables.
Nearly 7 million mobile phones were sold on the Tai-
wan market in 2007, and about 2.04 million mobile phones 
were recycled, leaving 60% of all mobile phones in the homes of consumers. It is estimated only 5% of these will actually get recycled. Thus there is still much room for im-provement in terms of recycling mobile phones. 
From December 2001, one of our offshoots, SENAO 
International, launched a mobile phone recycling project entailing the installation of a handset recycling counter for people to change phones. From July 2006, our service centers and other authorized service centers have set up recycling bins for old handsets. This complements govern-ment policy to recycle old batteries and also helps us live up to our corporate social responsibility. In the future we will cooperate with suppliers and retailers in developing handset recycling mechanisms with greater incentives and higher effi  ciency to provide a more convenient way of recycling handsets and batteries.41In 2007 we gathered together all authorities in each 
of our branch offi  ces to organize an energy conservation 
task group. The task group drew up the company’s Environmental Sustainability Strategic Map and drafted the Energy Conservation Effi  ciency Review Guidelines, the 
2008 Environmental Sustainability Strategic Map
Educational 
Outreach
Programs
Systems
Carbon 
NeutralityDigital Forest
Supply Chain 
StandardsCHT Web 2.0 
Interactive Platform
Annual Reports
Website 
DisclosureEcological 
Environment
Vehicle 
Management
Seasonal 
PostersBenchmark 
Study
Educational 
TrainingFuel 
Management 
System
Offi  ce 
Energysaving 
PlanBuilding Energy 
Management 
System
Space 
AdjustmentA.C./Electricity 
Effi  ciency
Lighting Fixtures 
ReplacementEmployee 
Environment 
Initiatives Corporate 
Alliance
Sharing of 
Achievements
Program Study 
CampAudit/
Verifi  cationRenewable 
EnergyEnergy Conservation 
Activity
Recycling
IDC Green 
BuildingTheme 
Resort
Resource 
Management 
SystemGHG 
Management 
SystemEnergy Conservation Measures, and the Environmental 
Living and Energy Conservation Action Guidelines. The group gradually established an information management system to serve as a reference upon which the company can base carbon management and action plans.2008 Environmental Sustainability Strategic MapCarbon Management System
Effective management and disclosure of “carbon infor-
mation” is the cornerstone of corporate energy savings 
and carbon reductions. A corporation must fi  rst be aware of its carbon footprint and effectively manage its carbon information before it can set clear energy conservation strategies and goals for improvement. 
We have therefore established the “Air Conditioner 
Centralized Monitoring System” to monitor power con-sumption of our stationary control stations. We have adopted a “Building Energy Management System” to manage the state of energy use in our offi  ce buildings. Our “Electricity Fee Centralized Payment and Billing Management System” makes power consumption infor-mation more transparent and uses a comprehensive infor-mation management system to build a sound foundation for carbon management. Drawing on our experience in sa-ving energy in the offi  ce and integrating our company’s core capacities in internet technology, we have developed a service called the Intelligent Environment Network (IENet). This service installs energy monitoring equipment on our customers’ electric equipment to collect power consumption data and send it back to our management platform for processing. Logical calculations are then made to devise appropriate operating conditions. The operation of equipment is then adjusted according to these conditions to achieve energy conservation goals.
Environmental Sustainability Management System
In 2007, we established the Environmental Sustain-
ability Management System to provide a base for manage-ment of statistics on each department’s environmental per-formance. The main functions of this system are as follows:
● Compile statistics on resource recycling
● Compile statistics on environmental innovations● Manage expenditure on water, electricity and fuel bills● Tree inventory and tree planting● Manage statistics on reuse of water resources● Manage lighting fi  xtures● Manage information on carbon emissions
IENet 
(Intelligent Environment Network) Air Conditioner Centralized Monitoring SystemBuilding Energy Management SystemEnvironmental Sustainability Management 
System
Carbon Management System
Electricity Fee Centralized Payment and 
Bill Management System
Infl  uencing ConsumersRaising Energy Effi  ciency 
Reducing Energy Waste
Employee Environment 
InitiativesCarbon Management 
System
Chunghwa Telecom 
Carbon Management 
StrategySupply Chain Management 
and CooperationWe have adopted a 5-pronged strategy to fulfi  ll our pro-
mise for environmental sustainability and attain carbon 
management objectives. The primary goal is to link toge-ther all operations for a comprehensive environmental protection strategy that reduces energy consumption and effectively manages carbon emissions.Carbon Management Strategy43Building Energy Management System
After the development of this system, we selected the 
Telecommunications Research Institute building to conduct 
electricity diagnosis and benefi  ts analysis. Installation of this system helped the building effectively curb the use of 96,568 kWh, equivalent to reducing 64.7 tonnes of CO
2 
emissions. 
After this successful experience, we applied the results 
of this research to a project carried out by Enterprise Bu-siness Group with the National Pingtung University of Science and Technology’s Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. This helped the university acquire information on electricity use throughout the cam-pus. The information then underwent statistical analysis and was made available in realtime format with good results. 
In 2008, our Environmental Sustainability Working 
Group will select 8 company buildings and outfi  t them with this system. After conducting electricity diagnosis, information monitoring and control tests under different electricity usage environments we will expand this system 
to all buildings in 2009. 
Air Conditioner Centralized Monitoring System
There is nearly worldwide environmental consensus 
that we need to reduce CO2 emissions and conserve 
energy resources in order to mitigate global warming. As 
a member of the global village, our company has address-ed this environmental issue for several years through im-plementation of our energy conservation policy. This began back in 1991 when each telecommunications control room began installing Air Conditioner Centralized Monitoring Systems (POSS). This system’s energy-saving control functions save energy and reduce electricity bills.
The Air Conditioner Centralized Monitoring System 
(POSS) offers the following energy saving functions:
1. Air conditioning automatic temperature control 
Temperature sensing instruments detect room tem-
perature and transmit this data to the system, which compares it against set values. The system then con-trols the operating mode of each air conditioner and achieves energy conservation goals by controlling room temperature at 26 ～30°C.
2. Control of the need to use electricity
The automatic control function coordinates with electric equipment in the control room that can be turned off. Set maximum load requirements (contract capacity) and instantaneous load values are weighed so that the system can control the addition or subtraction of equip-ment loads and avert peak loads at any time. This effec-tively reduces Taipower Company’s peak demand for power supply, achieves energy conservation and saves 
on electricity bills.
IENet (Intelligent Environment Network)
IENet provides services using the ASP model, mainly 
applied to air conditioning energy conservation. Energy 
conservation planning gives ample consideration to the interrelation of various different environmental factors. It also refers to past experiences to design an optimal sys-tems operation mode that can create a favorable work environment that is healthy, comfortable, convenient, energysaving, and environmentally friendly. 
● Health: improve indoor air quality, create healthy work 
environment
● Comfort: stay on top of climate and environmental 
change to increase the comfort of the work environment
● Convenient: provide automatic monitoring and 
management mechanisms to reduce maintenance and 
operation costs
● Energysaving: eliminate bad user habits to reduce 
electricity costs
● Environmentally Friendly: reduce CO
2 emissions and live 
up to responsibility to protect the Earth
IENet’s main service is divided into “Energy Use 
Effi  ciency and Management” and “Maintenance and Operation of Automatic Management”. Functions provided by these services include environmental temperature mana-gement, air quality management, operating procedure management, abnormality warning management, mana-gement of surveillance control rights and restrictions, equipment effi  ciency management, power requirement management, testing and maintenance management, and system confi  guration management.
Electricity Fee Centralized Payment and Bill 
Management System
To ensure effective command over the company’s 1,800 
buildings and 14,800 electricity bills, we have developed 
an electricity fee centralized payment and bill management system. In 2008 we began to carry out centralized payment of electricity fees. At the time, this was useful in collecting information on electricity use and keeping it transparent. Now it is being effectively integrated with the carbon emissions information system and management of electricity use goals.Raising Energy Effi  ciency, Reducing 
Energy Waste
We adopt various energy conservation strategies both 
internally and externally to enhance the effi  ciency of energy 
usage and to minimize waste of energy. 
Energy Consumption Analysis
With universal Internet hookup and annually increasing 
numbers of users, we are using more and more electricity 
and petroleum each year. This reminds us to pay close attention to energy effi  ciency and greenhouse gas emissions. After conducting a preliminary survey on our energy consumption in 2007, we found that electricity and gas were our primary sources of energy consumption. The ratio of expenditures readily refl  ects this situation.
Electricity Costs (%)Water Costs (%)Fuel Costs (%)8%1%
91%
1,400
1,300
1,200
1,100
1,000Electricity Consumption (MWh)
2004 2005 2006 2007160
155
150
145
135
130
Revenue per Electricity Consumed 
(million NTD/MWh)1,162.1157.1
152.7
141.4144.7 1,200.91,304.81,364.1
Electricity 
Consumption
▲Revenue per
Electricity ConsumedElectricity Consumption Analysis 2004 ～2007
125Electricity usage increased from 1162.1 megawatts 
hours (MWh) in 2004 to 1364.1 megawatts hours (MWh) 
in 2007. The primary reason for this increase was that we have markedly increased the number and types of different services to users over the years. Because our related service fees did not increase but actually decreased, we did not achieve an annual increase in revenue generated per megawatt. However, after actively introducing energy conservation plans in 2007, improvements have begun to show in 2007.
Vehicle fuel consumption trends are similar to that of 
electricity usage. In 2007, we began to introduce a plan to phase out the use of cars and motorcycles, and this has caused a noticeable drop in fuel consumption in 2007. Promotion of related plans is expected to give us better performance in terms of vehicle fuel consumption.
Energy Consumption Analysis45
7,100
6,800
6,500Gasoline Consumption (1000L)
2004 2005 2006 2007920
900
880
840
820
800
Diesel Consumption (1000L)7,000
6,900
6,700
6,600860
780
760897.7
873.5
823.7
809.97,054.77,040.77,064.5
6,742.7Gasoline Consumption
▲Diesel ConsumptionFuel Consumption Analysis 2004 ～2007
68.6
70.4900,000CO2 Emissions (tonnes)
2004 2005 2006 2007245
240
235
225
220
215
Revenue/CO2 Emissions 
(million NTD/thousand tonnes)230
210
205
2002,431.2
2,514.9
2,603.8
2,659.8850,000
800,000
750,000
700,000
650,000CO2 Emissions
▲Revenue/CO2 
Emissions CO2 Emissions 2004 ～2007 (Fuel and Electricity)
81.2
73.4
NGN EquipmentPower Demand
(W)TDM EquipmentPower Demand
(W)Percentage of Energy 
Saved
TMGC/AMGC
(CP113E)900 CP113C 2,520 64%
SG
(127 Signal Link)348CCNC
(46 Signal Link)63080%
(per Link)
TG
(378 E1)1,190LTGN
(64 E1)64068%
(per E1)
AG
(3,968 Lines)1,554DLUD
(1,920 Lines)87414%
(per Line)
ROADM
(Long_Haul)1,143WDWDM
(Long_Haul)1,665W 31%Energy Consumption Comparison Chart for NGN and TDMStationary Control Room Energy Conservation 
Measures
In 2007, we purchased a Next Generation Network 
(NGN) Core Network (CN) switch with low consumption 
and high effi  ciency features. Compared to the conventional Time Division Multiplex (TDM) switch, this saves 50% of equipment space and offers 14% ～80% energy savings.Energy consumption of telecommunications control 
rooms is primarily from telecommunications equipment and air conditioning. In 2007 we launched a comprehensive energy saving plan to effectively decrease electricity con-sumption of stationary control rooms. This implemented energy savings plans at three levels, upstream, midstream and downstream. Details are shown on page 46 ~47.Stationary Control Room Energy Conservation Chart
Outdoor Air
PhotovoltaicWater 
Cooling 
Tower
Total HRV Unit
Outdoor Air
Control Room BuildingA.C.A.C.
Power Consumer Unit1000123
kWhIn 2008, we install-
ed photovoltaic arrays
 in 12 different locations for 
a total capacity of 70 kWp. 
With an annual power out-
put of 102,200 kWh, this is 
estimated to reduce 
65,204 kg of CO2 
emissions.● Water cooling towers and fan motor 
heat control frequency conversion 
technology saves 70% of power consumption.
● We use hot air conditioning units to 
save 10～15% of power consumption.
By installing Total 
Heat Recovery Ven-tilator (HRV) Unit, we could fully utilize low temperatures outdoors in winter to greatly reduce power consumption (HRV are already in operation in control rooms of our operation centers in Longgang, Guoling, Tsaoluo, and at the Renmei base station in Taipei). This measure allows control stations to save 13 ～19% in 
energy costs per year.● Spaces are separated based on how they are used. Monitoring systems 
control temperature within an appropriate range for each space. This offers energy savings of 2 ～6% for every 1°C.
● Heat dispersing fans are installed on equipment that can handle operating 
environment temperatures over 40°C. This allows air conditioning to remain off, saving 85% of energy.Integration of fan or air con-duit systems for equipment saves 2% of energy.
● Fixed line switchboards are being replaced to save 4.2% on energy per year by the end of 
2008 (21 switchboards were taken out of use and replaced from 2006 ～2007, 13 T1/E1 
985,000 port switchboards were taken out of use, and 6 switchboards were replaced in 2008).
● The 2008 3G development plan for mobile phones integrates Packet Core technology to 
streamline the former 31 SGSN systems (including 20 2G and 11 3G systems) into just 8 systems. System operation efficiency and energy saving measures have enhanced air conditioning and equipment energy efficiency by over 70%.We purchase and
 lease energy efficient and low-
energy telecommunications and air 
conditioning equipment. Examples 
include products with energy-saving 
labels and low-consumption, high 
efficiency new generation networks 
(NGN) equipment for the air 
conditioner boxes of our
 control room.
● SMR backup equipment is shut down so that SMR operates 
at optimal efficiency, saving 2% of energy consumption per unit.
● Motherboards of backup telecom equipment computer are 
shut down or removed.
● Control room lighting is localized with independent switches 
for each area, saving up to 10% of power consumption.
●  Power demand is controlled to save on energy bills and to lo-
wer Taipower’s reserve capacity. We have reduced power de-mand by 5 ～10% of the amount originally stated on contract.
●  We avoid proliferation of small capacity power equipment to in-
crease energy efficiency and save 2% of power consumption.
47
Base Station
Chunghwa Telecom Resort
Chunghwa Telecom Service Center● Base stations will use single frequency technology 
integrated with GSM900/1800 to decrease the num-
ber of base stations required. Already 1,500 base stations have made the switch, reducing power consumption by 20 ～25%.
● Base station air conditioning primarily uses natural 
air flow to maintain temperatures over 26°C, reducing power consumption by 20 ～35%.In the future we will use new
 base stations with 3G Flexi and 
Doherty technology. This will en-
hance air conditioning and equipment 
energy efficiency by over 70%. 2G 
will adopt S6000/S9000/S18000 
technology to cut the space need by 
control stations by a quarter. This 
will enhance air conditioning and 
equipment energy efficiency by
 40%.
Our company set 
specifications for the 
procurement and leasing 
of automobiles with 
energy efficient and 
lowenergy consumption 
features.
In 2008, we will install 132
solar water heaters, estimated to 
produce up to 19,800 liters of hot 
water per year. This equipment 
replaces the use of gas or electric 
heating and can reduce about 
19,000 kg of CO
2.
Solar Water Heater
●  2008～2012 Plan to Reduce Vehicle Fuel:
1. Replaced 2,842 automobiles and 1,158 motorbikes that 
were not fuel-efficient.
2. Reduced fleet by 1,455 automobiles and 539 motorbikes.3. Fuel consumption is reduced by decreasing vehicle loads 
and emptying vehicles after each job. 
4. Spread awareness of ways to save fuel when driving or 
purchasing / leasing vehicles. This fosters good driving habits and reduces fuel consumption.
5. We expect to save 7.58 million liters of fuel from 2008 ～
2012. Each year we will save 1.52 million liters of fuel, marking a 22% reduction in fuel use and mitigating 3,344 tonnes of CO
2 emissions.
● By promoting the use of the mDAS dispatch system, we 
reduce fuel wasted on driving extra distances, while also reducing the use of paper.●We provide
 energy saving ICT
 products to our customers.
●The sleep function of the 
ADSL system has been 
upgraded to save 3.1% 
of electricity.
Telecommunications 
wires have been 
replaced with energy 
efficient fiber optic 
internet cables.2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total
Automobiles 495 524 150 145 141 1,455
Motorcycles 205 180 53 51 50 5395-Year Vehicle Reduction PlanReducing Vehicle Usage and Fuel Consumption
Reducing the use of vehicles is a basic way of reducing 
fuel consumption. In 2007, we reduced our fl  eet by 650 au-
tomobiles and 403 motorcycles. By the end of 2007 we had a total of 6,592 automobiles and 1,991 motorcycles. To effectively implement reductions, we drew up a 5-year plan to eventually cut our fl  eet by 1,455 automobiles and 539 motorcycles by the year 2012.
Additionally, we will accelerate the replacement of old 
vehicles with poor fuel effi  ciency. From 2008 to 2012, we plan to replace 2,842 automobiles and 1,158 motorcycles. When purchasing and leasing vehicles in the future, we will introduce maximum fuel effi  ciency and vehicle emission standards in procurement specifi  cations or contracts to fulfi  ll EPA regulations. This will ensure the energy use rate of our motor vehicles to maintain optimal condition and to reduce losses of wasted fuel resources.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total
Automobiles 1,160 522 430 429 301 2,842
Motorcycles 333 246 228 197 154 1,1585-Year Vehicle Replacement PlanPromotion of Various Energy Conservation Action 
Plans
In 2007, we trialed a space partitioning strategy in our 
offi  ces and control rooms to enhance the effi  ciency of air 
conditioning systems and electric equipment. This measure was confi  rmed successful and will be implemented across the board in 2008. Future plans call for successive installation of rainwater and wastewater recycling and reuse facilities, improved lighting circuitry and energysaving equipment, and switching to T5 lights and LED signs.
We are also developing offi  ce and desk energy-saving 
plans including installation of energy-saving settings for offi  ce personal computers to reduce power consumption during standby mode. Our goal is to eventually install this on 95% of all our offi  ce PCs.
Personal computer systems can save one amp of 
electricity in standby or sleep mode. Chunghwa Telecom has 24,000 employees, so for every 10,000 employees who tune up energy saving settings on their PCs, we save about 40,000 kilowatt hours per month.49
 Calculations
* Given 10,000 computers are in sleep mode for 2 hours per day (1 hour for lunch + off-use times during 
the workday)
* Daily energy savings of 10,000*2hrs*110V*1A = 2,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
* Monthly (20 workdays) energy savings of 2,000 kWh*20days = 40,000 kWhThe energy saved by setting PCs in sleep mode for 
2 hours a day, 365 days a year, can be used to wash 
1,035,250 articles of clothing.
We produced an educational poster (recyclable clo-
thing) to encourage more employees to tune up energy-saving settings on their computers. This is our way of con-veying the message to society that small decisions made by individuals can have a large impact on the environment. In the early days, our telecommunications system was the traditional information network that brought prosperity and opportunity to Taiwan. Now this network has established itself in communities and households to link the hearts and minds of people. Our vision for the future is to transform this network into a giant web that can protect all the plants and trees of this land. We hope through our hard work we can attract more people to join in action against global warming and show determination toward mitigating climate change.
Supply Chain Management and 
Cooperation
In terms of managing and working with our suppliers, 
we have launched plans to recycle and reuse handsets 
and waste from our operations. We steer suppliers toward products that consume less energy by developing appropriate energy efficient rules for telecommunications or data equipment that we employ in our own offices and provide to consumers. This helps both us and consumers achieve energy savings and carbon reduction goals.
Employee Environmental Initiatives
1. Environmental Living and Energy Conservation Guide-
lines
Employee participation is a crucial link in our energy 
conservation strategy. We drafted the “Chunghwa Telecom Environmental Living and Energy Conservation Guidelines” in 2007 to ensure our employees fully understand their company’s commitment and actions to protect the environ-ment. We established clear performance indicators to give employees clear objectives in practicing energy con-servation measures. Our ultimate goal is to encourage all colleagues to protect the natural environment by making changes in their own lifestyles.
2. Education and Training
To make sure employees understand the importance 
of energy conservation in fighting climate change and 
global warming we hire experts and scholars to arrange educational training on environmental sustainability includ-ing the following seminars: Environmental Sustainability Annual Work Report (1 hour), Becoming a World Citizen in the Global Warming Era (2 hours), Chunghwa Telecom Web 2.0 Interactive Platform (1 hour), and Energy Conser-vation and Green Technology (2 hours).
3. Green Office 
Environmental action can be carried out in the office 
through energy conservation, recycling of computers and 
mobile phones, reusing paper, creating e-documents and a paper-free office, and greening measures. This not only saves expenses for the company but also allows room for colleagues to interact and come up with creative ways to enhance the quality of the office environment. 
4. Community Environmental Participation
Apart from holding environmental cleanup contests 
within the company, we encourage employees to actively 
participate in community cleanup activities and fulfill our community obligations. 
5. Web 2.0 Environmental Idea Sharing
We believe voluntary employee discussion and parti-
cipation is a key element to implementing and enhancing 
our company’s in-house environmental efforts. Working through the company’s internal Chunghwa Telecom Web 2.0 Interactive Platform, employees can engage in discussion about environmental ideas with colleagues who may have a more developed sense of environmental awareness. This channel for interactive dialogue is an im-portant place for brainstorming different environmental ideas.51We are always searching for ways to leverage our 
newly developed products and services to help customers 
save energy and reduce carbon consumption. For exam-ple, after years of research we developed several new applications to help our company and corporate clients achieve energy conservation and carbon reduction objectives:
Internal Energy Conservation System
IT technology provides remote offi  ces for company 
employees, thereby helping to green the earth by reducing CO
2 emissions, pollution, and energy consumption. 
1. Mobile Services (MIP Service Platform):
Expanded services include administrative mobility, mDAS, mCSS, and mobile Internet maintenance and operation service group.Approximately 470,000 people used this service in 2007. This is expected to grow by 10% in 2008 to a total of around 510,000 users.
2. Long-Distance Offi  ce Service (SSL VPN Service Plat-
form):This service was offi  cially launched on 26 November 2007 and has been expanded to include administrative mobility, bill service system maintenance and operation, and SPIP mobile service counter.About 100 people signed up for this service in 2007; this number is 
expected to grow considerably to 3,000 people in 2008.
Corporate Energy Conservation Product Series
1. mPro:
Currently has 29,000 users; expected to reach 120,000 
users in 2008.
2. Digital VPN and Value-Added Services:
Revenue from this energy-saving product series including Thousand-Mile Eye, Video Conference such as HiMeeting-PC Base and HiVideo-Room Base, was approximately NT$28 million in 2007 and is expected to increase to NT$29.7 million in 2008.
3. Digital Intelligent Equipment Online Services:
Our new energy-saving product series including IENet and HiVRS are expected to yield NT$60 million in revenue in 2008.
Service Counters Total
Phone 33.65
Internet 6.75
Walk-In 95.13
Total 135.542007 Customer Service Records (unit : million)Infl  uencing Consumers
We are deeply aware that the greatest force in imple-
menting environmental and energy conservation concepts 
comes from the consumers supporting us. We have over 8 million mobile phone users, 4 million Internet users, and hold over 96% market share of fi  xed-line services. Our core carbon management strategy is therefore to infl  uence this large customer base to join us in the fi  ght against global warming by taking action to save energy and reduce carbon consumption. 
As Internet technology continues to take off, the 
concept of the mobile offi  ce is no longer an impossibility. Corporations now freely use e-mail and SMS services to obtain written information, or use videoconferencing for face-to-face communication at distant meetings. As a telecom corporation that provides Internet and com-munications services, we have been the leading voice in encouraging people to “Use E-Roads, not Paved Roads.” We call on consumers to make full use of the Internet and thereby reduce the carbon footprint of vehicles on the roads. This measure is having a substantial infl  uence on consumers. Our customer service provides not only 467 service points and walk-in counters, but also phone and Internet service windows. These three service channels handle over 135.5 million requests per year. Our customers are gradually fi  nding out they can get the quickest service through just a telephone call or fi  ling an application online. This saves a great deal of energy that would otherwise be spent on transportation, and therefore indirectly reduces greenhouse gas emissions.
Our brand new electronic billing service allows consu-
mers to inquire online about bills to be paid, online pay-ments, and bill analysis. Such convenient online services fully satisfy consumers’ demands and make them cohorts in our efforts to become a paper-free system. By the end of December 2007, about 1.18 million customers switched from the traditional printed bills to e-billing. This substan-tially cuts down on CO
2 emissions generated in delivering 
bills. Results of Digitalization Plans
Calculations:
220,000 pieces of A4 paper = 1 tonne of paper pulp
1 tonne of paper pulp = 20 trees1 piece of A4 paper = 0.0067 cm (thickness)Taipei 101 = 508 meters (height)Digitalized 
ServiceDetailsEstimated Pieces of 
A4 Paper Saved
Integrated BillingIntegrated billing combines bills for the same customer 
number and address. Many bills are integrated into one for users of different Chunghwa Telecom services.180,000,000
Electronic BillingPrinted bills replaced by e-mail or users inquire about bills online22,200,000
Electronic 
Bidding SystemAllows suppliers and government agencies a way to handle bidding affairs online10,773,000
Bill Credit Online 
InquiryProvides HiNet customers online inquiry into personal/company records of returned checks and paying off balances. This reduces the need for paper applications and photocopying of inquiry results.660,000
Address SystemChunghwa Telecom was commissioned by the government to provide an electronic document of Internet users address information in 2003. About 3.78 million e-documents were compiled in 2003, and this number increased by about  5～6 million each year to about 20 million in 2006, or about 
70% of all such paper documents. This greatly reduced the number of walk-in counter applications for address documents. The documents can be sent instantly online to reduce paper. 20,000,000
Paper Free Work 
EnvironmentAll company internal meeting notices, meeting documents and meeting records are distributed in electronic form.10,000,000
Digitalization of 
Official Reports Official reports are signed and issued online and e-mail replaces paper documents to save time and paper required for printing and mailing. This is more efficient and environmentally preferable. 100,000,000
TotalSaves an average of 311,473,000 pieces of paper per year
≒ 1,415.8 tonnes of paper pulp
≒ reduces the need to cut 28,316 trees
≒ a stack of paper as high as 41 Taipei 101 buildings.53
Each Person in Taiwan Consumes 1.04 Trees per Year
Statistics from the Environmental Protection Administration, Executive Yuan, show that for each tonne of paper 
manufactured, 20 trees 8 meters tall and 16 centimeters in diameter are consumed. According to the Directorate-
General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics, Taiwan used 4,955,000 tonnes of paper in 2005, 1,203,000 tonnes of which was raw paper pulp, equivalent to cutting 24 million trees. That means each person in Taiwan consumes about 1.04 trees per year*. CO
2 emissions from papermaking processes are a source of global warming – these 
alarming fi  gures represent the waste we generate in our daily lives. “Use the Internet, save a tree” not only digitalizes our lives but also reduces the number of trees we cut down. This directly reduces pollution emissions and mitigates the rate of warming in Taiwan. The small changes we make in our lives are the most direct and simplest steps we can take to fi  ght global warming. 
*According to the Directorate-General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics, Taiwan’s population was 22.87 
million in 2006.Digital Forests to Fight Global Warming
Taiwan’s forests cover 58.53% of the island and are 
able to absorb 358.7 million cubic meters of carbon. The planting of trees is defi  nitely a wise action in terms of CO
2 
reduction strategies to improve the greenhouse effect and mitigate global warming. Considering the fact that Taiwan is warming at twice the rate of the global average, the most appropriate solution to this global issue requires the cooperation and knowledge of many different people. We feel that taking action now is a sensible response to this issue in the face of continually changing international developments as industry and Taiwan’s corporations work to fi  nd a more comprehensive response strategy.
With 2007 marking the 11th year of Chunghwa 
Telecom’s establishment, we launched the “Digital Forests in the Optical Era” campaign to address Taiwan’s warming climate. This integrates our skills and advantages in Internet telecommunications to encourage more people to “use the Internet, save a tree.” We convened 30 of Taiwan’s corporations to jointly participate in the Jane Goodall Institute’s “Green Thumb Project.” We invited consumers to respond by using more Internet products to mitigate global warming.Use the Internet, Save a Tree
We created the slogan, “Use the Internet, save a 
tree” in July 2007. Since then the concept has rapidly spread so that now nearly all blogs have an online tree planting section. Participation is easy by just logging onto http://www.hinet.net/tree. For every 10,000 signatures, Chunghwa Telecom will support a school to become a Jane Goodall Institute “Digital Forest Green Thumb”  Pro-ject partner. Within just a week we broke 100,000 signa-tures and now over 400,000 people have gone online to plant a tree. 30 other corporations have since joined the school adoption program. The program brings in experts to help the students and teachers of 44 elementary and junior high schools become familiar with Taiwan’s native plants and plant native environmental indicator species. The Digital Forest program ensures the concepts of tree planting and environmental protection take root at the local level, making it a concrete example of corporate action to fi  ght global warming.Greening the land
While the Digital Forest program is helping to create 
a green corridor throughout Taiwan, we have taken an 
inventory of trees on our own property to fi  nd over 30,000 trees, making for quite a large green area. To instill the importance of greening the land, we have drawn up plans to work with communities and environmental organizations to create ecological classrooms and recreation environments on Yangmingshan (7 hectares), the Telecommunications Training Center (7.2 hectares), the Telecommunications Research Institute (15 hectares), and Fangshan (36 hectares).Goal: 100 Schools
Apart from our cooperation with the Jane Goodall Insti-
tute in planting native species, in 2008 we will cooperate 
with the Taiwan Ecological Engineering Development Foun-dation and the Republic of China Society of Wilderness in the “Plant one Native Seedling to Grow a Spiritual Big Tree” plan. The goal of this plan is to eventually assist 100 schools in central, southern and eastern Taiwan to plant native trees.
Aside from tree planting, we have integrated the forces 
of corporate volunteers to assist school teachers and stu-dents to make records on the Digital Forest blog ( http://
www.hinet.net/tree ). In the future this will be integrated with 
off-campus learning so that it can spread through sharing and interaction between different schools. Stimulating interest in this activity indirectly strengthens environmental protection and efforts to mitigate global warming. We hope to work with more corporations and organizations concerned about ecology and integrate Taiwan’s organizations to partake in socially meaningful activities. 
We hope that this activity can enhance students’ duti-
es to protect the Earth and let students become more deeply aware of how important planting trees is in terms of reducing our carbon footprint and protecting biodiversity. Cultivating a sense of service and participation in students makes them more enthusiastic about caring for and res-pecting life and increases their understanding and support of Taiwan’s native species.
30 Corporate Partners Participating in the Chunghwa Telecom
and Jane Goodall Institute “Digital Forest Green Thumb Project”
Chinatrust, HP, Plantynet, Hitron Technologies, Farglory Group, Chunghwa System 
Integration, HwaCom Systems, Carat Media, Unique, ELSA Technology, Cathay Life Charity 
Foundation, Kland Films, Leo Burnett, HTC, LG Electronics, Motorola, Danal, Alcatel-Lucent, Nokia, NTT Communications, Bank of Taiwan, Chinatrust Charity Foundation, Samsung Anycall, SENAO International, Sony Ericsson, TCA, Verizon Business, E.Sun Cultural Foundation, and E.Sun Bank.55Face by the threats of climate change and global warming as well as pressure to reduce greenhouse gases 
in compliance with the Kyoto Protocol, we regard energy conservation and carbon reductions an important part 
of corporate social responsibility. We hope our Internet and telecommunications core technology plays a part in environmental sustainability of the environment and mitigation of global warming as we engage in corporate operations.
The above section primarily introduces some of the efforts we have made toward environmental sustainabi-
lity in 2007, including our overall strategy, establishment of the carbon management information system, en-hancing energy effi  ciency, reducing energy waste, supply chain management and cooperation, infl  uencing consumers, employee environmental initiatives, and the results of digitalization plans. 
From our experience in promoting the digitalization of administrative affairs and voluntary energy conser-
vation in the offi  ce, we know how important it is for a corporation to have clear goals for energy conservation and carbon reduction. Taking a carbon inventory is the fi  rst step before it is possible to move on to carbon management. 
We have made a clear commitment to environmental sustainability. In 2008 we will complete the fundamen-
tal process of taking a carbon inventory. Clear fi  gures on CO
2 emissions will help us begin the next step of 
planning our carbon management strategy. Future efforts include continued promotion of offi  ce energy con-
servation and employee voluntary energy conservation. We also have plans to invest a great deal toward the promotion of energysaving equipment. Energy effi  ciency will be our bottom line when purchasing new telecommunications equipment. We hope to draw on our experience of strict carbon management, energy conservation and carbon reductions, and integrate this with our core skills in Internet telecommunications to develop innovative services that are more environmentally friendly and provide substantial energy savings. This will be our best asset in helping clients create a low-carbon economy and lowcarbon lifestyles. We hope our services will help Taiwan do its part to conserve energy and reduce carbon emissions.Our Commitment to Environmental SustainabilityLooking at 2007 in review, this year we effectively integrated CSR 
concepts and strategies into our internal management mechanisms and put 
them into practice in our daily operations. We achieved this in three stages through the development of a CSR vision, implementation of CSR action plans and the study of CSR benchmark. 
Embodying our management’s commitment and support of CSR, we 
cooperate as a team to discover and unfold Chunghwa Telecom’s CSR core visions and aspirations. Working under this vision we discuss and practice our commitment to CSR together with all our employees and stakeholders. 
After the development of a CSR vision, ﬁ  rst and second tier ofﬁ  cers 
of headquarter and other branch ofﬁ  ces gathered to brainstorm strategic actions in order to implement CSR value and CSR consensus from top management into each business unit. In order to promote and implement CSR action plans, we established CSR Committee, which is divided into six working groups. Each of them is responsible for planning and execution of CSR affairs and to fully utilize Chunghwa Telecom Web 2.0 Interactive Platform to make it as another channel for internal communication and promotion of CSR concepts.
Meanwhile, we continue to study CSR benchmarks and take interna-
tional enterprises performed outstandingly in CSR as references to enhance our understanding about CSR issues and to design related action plans for improving our competition strength. 
For an enterprise that has more than 24,000 employees like us, the 
key to promote CSR is to create a corporate culture to think CSR, discuss CSR and implement CSR. This is our target as well as the key point for the sustainability of Chunghwa Telecom in the future.
Chunghwa 
Telecom
CSR VisionCorporate Mission
Innovative, High Quality, 
Affective, Trustworthy
Team Culture
Mutual Trust, 
Responsible, Sharing, 
GrowingCustomer Relations
Proactive, Available
Community Contribution
Reducing Digital Divide
Environment Protection
Disadvantaged People Care
CSR Management
The key to promote CSR is to create 
a corporate culture to think CSR, discuss CSR and implement CSR.57Our outlook for 2008 foresees the full integration of 
CSR and our core professional capacities to increase the 
value of our brand. The ﬁ  rst step begins with strengthening our CSR organizational structure so that we evolve into a learning enterprise with greater capacity for strategic thinking and planning of CSR action plans. This important step will increase the transparency of outcomes and infor-mation related to CSR in order to provide an appropriate response to the scrutiny of our domestic and foreign stake-holders. Speciﬁ  cally, in the future we will enhance CSR implementation results by:
Strengthening the CSR Organizational 
Framework
A Public Affairs Ofﬁ  ce will be added to exclusively 
handle CSR affairs. We will also designate exclusive win-
dows at ﬁ  rst and second tier ofﬁ  ces to promote CSR and working group projects.
Establishing a Forum for Dialogue 
with Stakeholders
We will establish a communication platform to streng-
then dialogue with investors, shareholders, our supply 
chain, public welfare partners, community residents and all stakeholders. Special steps will be taken to enhance the CSR of our suppliers. Outlook 2008
Setting Mid-term and Long-term 
Corporate Targets for Environmental Protection and Green Energy
Energy conservation, emissions reductions, and 
other environmental concerns will be more fully incorpo-
rated into our business plans. We will set environmen-tal standards of conduct within the corporation, publish handbooks, and set green energy standards to meet CO
2 reduction targets. We will also strengthen communi-
cation within the corporation as well as with upstream and downstream suppliers to ensure the entire supply chain adheres to international environmental standards.
Encouraging Employee Involvement 
in Society
We will provide a series of incentives including vaca-
tion time, meal subsidies and classes to openly encou-
rage and reward employees for engaging in volunteer services on their own time. We will assist employees in establishing local service clubs to create opportunities for public welfare activities and build the trend for cor-porate volunteerism.This is Chunghwa Telecom’s fi  rst Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
report. The main focus of this year’s report is to inform the public of our 
consensus and commitment to CSR and report on our performance and achievements in CSR.
The fi  gures in this report are taken from statistics recorded at the 
Chunghwa Telecom headquarters and our branch offi  ces (not including JVs, subsidiaries, and outsourcing) up through the end of 2007. The scope of information includes various CSR issues and performance in the areas of fi  nance, environment, and society. The report describes our current challenges in CSR, and discloses a great deal of information not found in our annual fi  nancial report.
This report has been assessed by GRI as meeting the requirements for 
the B GRI Application Level. This GRI Content Index demonstrates how our report addresses the GRI Standard Disclosure requirements.
We welcome any comments about this report, and are very interested 
in receiving feedback from our readers. Please send comments to below contact person.
Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.
Public Affairs Department, CSR Division
Senior Director: Tseng, Chin-Ming
Address:     21-3 Hsinyi Road, Sec, 1 
Taipei, Taiwan 100 R.O.C.
Telephone: +886  2  2344  4000
Email:          hctelbd@cht.com.tw 
GRI G3 Content Index
59STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profi  le Disclosures
1. Strategy and Analysis
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 2-3
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2-4,10
2. Organizational Profi  le
2.1 Name of the organization. 4
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2-4,8-9
2.3Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 
subsidiaries, and joint ventures.6-7
2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 58
2.5Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifi  cally relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.2-4
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 5
2.7Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/benefi  ciaries).4,8-9
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 6,11
2.9 Signifi  cant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 10
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 5
3. Report Parameters
3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fi  scal/calendar year) for information provided. 58
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Not Applicable
3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 58
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 58
3.5 Process for defi  ning report content. 14
3.6Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance.6,58
3.7State any specifi  c limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope).58
3.8Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can signifi  cantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.58
3.9Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols.58
3.10Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods).Not Applicable
3.11Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.Not Applicable
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 59
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 58
AR = Annual Report4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement
4.1Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 
governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 6
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. AR90
4.3For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members.AR94-95
4.4Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. AR97,104,106
4.5Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance).AR93-94
4.6Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.12
4.7Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics.AR96
4.8Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation.56
4.9Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 13
4.10Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance.13
4.11Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 13
4.12Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 12,AR124
4.13Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 2-3
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 14
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 14
4.16Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 14
4.17Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.1461STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs)
DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC 12
DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN 38
DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA 10
DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR 12
DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO 12,28
DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR 20
STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators
Economic
EC1Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, 
employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.11,AR83
EC2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. Not Available
EC3 Coverage of the organization's defi  ned benefi  t plan obligations. 16-18
EC4 Signifi  cant fi  nancial assistance received from government. Not Applicable
EC5Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at signifi  cant locations of operation.Not Available
EC6Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Not Available
EC7Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at signifi  cant locations of operation. Not Applicable
EC8Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefi  t through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 2-3
EC9Understanding and describing signifi  cant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Not Available
Environmental
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not Available
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not Available
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 44-45
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 44-45
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and effi  ciency improvements. 45-49
EN6Initiatives to provide energy-effi  cient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 45-49
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 45
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 39
EN9 Water sources signifi  cantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not ApplicableEN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Available
EN11Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 
areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.Not Available
EN12Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Not Available
EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not Available
EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Not Available
EN15Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Not Available
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 45
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not Available
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 45-49
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not Available
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Not Available
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not Available
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Not Available
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not Available
EN24Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Not Available
EN25Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Not Available
EN26Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation.Not Available
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Not Available
EN28Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Not Available
EN29Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Not Available
EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Not Available
Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 18
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 15
LA3Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 15
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 15
LA5Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Not Available63LA6Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health 
and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Not Available
LA7Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region.17
LA8Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases.Not Available
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Not Available
LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. 16
LA11Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. 16
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 16
LA13Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.13
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 18
Social: Human Rights 
HR1Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Not Available
HR2Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Not Available
HR3Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Not Available
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 18
HR5Operations identifi  ed in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at signifi  cant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 15
HR6Operations identifi  ed as having signifi  cant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Not Applicable
HR7Operations identifi  ed as having signifi  cant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Not Available
HR8Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. 17
HR9Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken.Not Available
Social: Society
SO1Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Not Available
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 12
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 12
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 12
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Not AvailableSO6Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related 
institutions by country.Not Available
SO7Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Not Available
SO8Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Not Available
Social: Product Responsibility 
PR1Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Not Available
PR2Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Not Available
PR3Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 21
PR4Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Not Available
PR5Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 25
PR6Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 24
PR7Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Not Available
PR8Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 23
PR9Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Not Available65