Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010Welcome to Chunghwa Telecom’s fourth Corporate Social Responsibility Report. This report is published in both Chinese and 
English with a dedicated CSR website. We hope to integrate the advantages of paper-based and internet-based reports to let 
those who care about us have a further understanding on our CSR-related efforts and performances in 2010.
      http://www.cht.com.tw/CSR/
Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2009
Published in August, 2010
Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010
Published in February, 2012
Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2007
Published in May, 2008
Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2008
Published in September, 2009Editorial Policy
Feedbacks
If you have any feedbacks to share regarding the “Chun -
ghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010,” please do not hesitate to 
contact us through:
Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.
Tseng, Chin-Ming, Publish Affairs Department, CSR Divi-
sionAddress: 21-3, Sec. 1, Hsinyi Road, Taipei, Taiwan 100
Telephone: +886-2-2344-4000
E-mail:chtcsr@cht.com.tw
Carrying the environment on our shouldersThe Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report is printed using environmental-friendly soy ink.Reporting Period
This report disclose the company’s CSR management poli -
cies, key issues, countermeasures and initiatives’ results in 
2010(i.e. January 1 to December 31, 2010). However, parts 
of the Report include description of initiatives taken outside the stated period (i.e. before January 1, 2010 of after De-
cember 31, 2010) and their results for a complete coverage.
Scope and Coverage  
The report covers Chunghwa Telecom, and Chunghwa 
Telecom Foundation. Combined, they are referred as 
“Chunghwa Telecom.” Data covered by the Report includes 
financial (of Chunghwa Telecom and its subsidiaries), envi-
ronmental and social performances.Assurance
This Report has been sent to SGS Taiwan Ltd. Taipei 
Branch for data confirmation and certifying purposes. This 
Report is certified to be in compliance with GRI A+ Applica -
tion Level and AA1000 AS 2008.
References
This Report is compiled following the G3 Guidelines and 
the Telecommunications Sector Supplement of the Global 
Reporting Initiative(GRI).1 Message from the CEO
Message from the CEO
2010 is a year of major digital development trends in the telecommunications industry. One the one hand, 
consumers demonstrate stronger demand for value-added services with the rising popularity of smart 
phones and flat screen computer products, committing us deeper into people’s lives. On the other hand, 
due to innovative and forward-looking research capabilities, we have successfully transitioned into the in-
formation and communication industries. I was also fortunate to have been nominated as the Director of 
the Cloud Computing Association of Taiwan to contribute value-added services for the industry chain.
2010 is also the beginning of a new era of frequent cross-Strait exchanges that will bring Taiwan 5 million 
international tourists. We are committed to infusing ICT technologies into tourism, medicine, cultural inno -
vation, and other emerging industries to enhance overall national competitiveness as our objective. We will 
also continue to expand overseas markets, develop new growing spaces, and establish a foundation for 
consolidated internationalization.
During its activities and developments, Chunghwa Telecom had always enjoyed the utmost business repu-
tation. The power of being a reliable brand is our greatest foundation. The positive corporate image created 
from enforcing our corporate social responsibilities are also an important component of our brand assets.
In the past year, we have increased brand values through fulfilling corporate social responsibilities. We 
have won the platinum award for reliable telecommunications brands from Reader’s Digest for seven con-secutive years. The respectable Asian financial magazine, Finance Asia, also awarded us the best man-
agement, corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and highest emphasis on dividend policy 
promise awards in the Taiwan region. Also, we were further awarded with Commonwealth Magazine’s 
outstanding corporate social responsibility award, Global Views Magazine’s outstanding service award in 
2010, IT Magazine’s best corporate governance and information disclosure awards for the greater Chinese 
region, and IR Global Ranking’s gold awards from outstanding financial information disclosure in the Asia 
Pacific region, Taiwan corporate sustainability report gold award, etc., all of which resoundingly showcase 
our proactive image as an competent corporation.
Looking into the future, we will begin strategically, continue using our core capabilities, fulfill reliable busi-
ness practices, and create benchmarks for corporate social responsibilities. We will also attend to em-
ployee needs, fulfill environmental education, welcome the cloud era, create responsible brands, address 
climate change, focus on digital opportunities, and face 
the new era’s challenges. The core of all of our strate-
gies point to the same objective, which is our vision: “to 
become the most valuable and reliable information and 
telecommunications company.”
After the Taiwan Stock Exchange promulgated the “Cor-
porate Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles for 
TWSE/GTSM-Listed Companies” in 2010, corporate 
social responsibilities have been fully infused into our 
business processes. Here, we would like to report to all 
of our stakeholders our strategies, management models, 
policies, responses, and objectives behind our promotion 
of corporate social responsibilities. We hope that every-
one will participate in feedback and discussions.
Chairman
Shyue-Ching Lu2Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Strategy                Management                          Address                   Response             Target
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Management
Corporate Governance
Customer Service
Labor Practice
Environmental Impact
Social InvestmentCore Capabilities – Higher 
Benchmarks
Enforcement of Ethical 
Business Practices
Welcoming the Cloud Age 
Service Development
Caring for Employee Needs
Adaptation to Climate 
Change
Concentration on Digital 
OpportunitiesExpansion of Supplier Management
Risk and Crisis Management
Brand Management
Customer Relations Management
Customer Satisfaction Survey
Human Resources Management
Performance Evaluation
Environmental Management 
System
Greenhouse Gas Reduction 
Targets
LBG Social Contribution 
Assessment9
17
23
33
41
5110
18
25
34
42
523 CONTENTS Strategy                Management                          Address                   Response             Target
Key Performance Indicators of 
Corporate Social ResponsibilityTable of Mandatory Duties
Strengthening Transparency and Management
Open Cultural Innovation 
Platform
Fulfillment of Environmental 
Education
Blueprint for Environmental 
Sustainability
Inclusive BusinessEstablishment of International 
CSR Partnership Relations
Ethical Corporate Culture
Broadband Network 
Establishment
Occupational Health and 
Safety
Green ICT
Investigation and Analysis Social InnovationIncreasing Eco-efficiency
Expanding Green ProcurementTalent Attraction and Retention
Joy at Work, Happiness at HomePrivacy Protection and 
Information SecurityResponsible CommunicationCode of ConductEngagement with Stakeholders
Establishment of CSR Management System
11
19
28
36
46
5313
20
30
38
48
5914
21
31
39
49
604 5 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Profile of Chunghwa TelecomStable Performance
In 2010, the rise of smart phones and economic recovery invigorated communica -
tion volumes, and spurred the growth potential of the entire telecommunication industry. 
Under the diligence of all of our colleagues, growth continued for mobile added values, 
cell phone sales, and internet operations. Consolidated revenues reached NT$ 202.43 
billion, while consolidated net income attributable to shareholders of the parent com-
pany was NT$ 47.61 billion, and earnings per share after tax was NT$ 4.91. Consoli-
dated income tax expenses totaled at NT$ 9.13 billion. We continue to compensate our 
investors. In 2010, a total of NT$ 49.1 billion was issued for cash dividends and capital 
reduction repayments.
Other than traditional telecommunication services, we have successfully introduced 
many information, communication, and digital convergence services, providing clients with cloud computations and customized comprehensive solutions, continuing the cor-
porate transformation into an information service provider.
Expanding Overseas Operations
Chunghwa Telecom and its affiliated companies primarily cover the telecommuni-
cation services industry. Generally, the greatest combined effects are generated through 
mutual support between technology, production, sales, and service, thus continuing the 
provision of the best professional service for our clients, and ensuring our leadership 
position in the market.
To expand overseas markets and develop new development spaces, we will work 
with subsidiaries to focus on ICT integrated services in turnkey project formats, with 
China and Southeast Asia as priority development regions. In China, we made joint 
investments in the creation of Shanghai Lihwa (Chunghwa Telecom (China) Co., Ltd.) 
and Sertec Business Technology, and also work with the three largest telecommunica -
tions firms in China to promote mobile added values. In Southeast Asia, we work with 
Vietnam’s Viettel to create Vietnam’s largest IDC firm, while also completing customized 
developments, creation, integrated tests, etc, for the overseas Indonesian version of 
satellite-based taxi business dispatch systems.
China and Vietnam harbor high demand for information and communication servic-
es. Due to our solid professional technologies and experience, we can make significant 
achievements in overseas developments of integrated information and communication 
services. Also, through our subsidiaries in US, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Japan, we 
export international fixed network business to overseas markets to enhance operational competitiveness, maintain high qualifies of service standards, and provide international 
corporate clients with international communication routing rentals, IPVPN, IP transit, 
voice and data sales, and other services.Profile of Chunghwa Telecom
Chunghwa Telecom is committed to using innovative technologies and compassionate service to 
lead Taiwan’s industries into a new era of development. We intend to transform our managerial role 
to one of promotion of economic development and service, in accordance with the orientation of 
“Strengthening Taiwan, Connecting the Taiwan Strait, and Deploying Globally.”4 5 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Profile of Chunghwa TelecomSenao
Intemational
HK Limited
(SIHK)Concord
Technology
Co., Ltd.
(Concord)Chunghwa28.81% 100%
100%
100%100% 100% 100% 100% 53.74% 100%
100%3.66%
100%100% 100% 100% 100% 56.04% 100% 69.36% 100% 49.07% 89% 100% 100%Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd and Subsidiaries
Senao
Intemational
(Samoa)
Holding Ltd.
(SS)Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.
(Chunghwa)
Unigate Telecom Inv. 
(Unigate)CHIEF Telecom (HK) 
Ltd. (CHIEF( HK))Chief 
International Corp. 
(CIC)Chunghwa Precision 
Test Tech. Co., Ltd. 
(CHPT)Chunghwa Invest-
ment Holding Co. 
(CIHC)
Glory Network 
System Service 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
(GNSS(Shanghai))CHI One Investment 
Co., Ltd. (COI)Chunghwa Telecom Organizational Chart
Shareholders’ Meeting
Board of Directors (BOD)
Chairman & CEOSupervisors
Secretariat Board of 
DirectorsAuditing Department
Vice PresidentsPresidentOperating Departments in Head-
quarters
Northern Taiwan Business Group
Southern Taiwan Business Group
Mobile Business Group
International Business Group
Data Communications Business 
Group
Enterprise Business Group
Telecom Laboratories
Telecom Training Institute
Senao 
International 
Co. Ltd.,
(SENAO)Chunghwa 
International 
Yellow Pages Co. 
Ltd.(CIYP)Chunghwa 
Telecom 
Singapore 
Pte., Ltd.
(CHTS)Chunghwa 
System
Integration Co., 
Ltd.(CHSI)Chughwa 
Telecom 
Global, Inc.
(CHTG)Donghwa 
Telecom Co., 
Ltd. (DHT)Spring House 
Entertainment Inc. 
(SHE)Light Era Develop -
ment Co., Ltd. (LED)CHIEF Telecom 
Inc.( CHIEF)Chunghwa 
Telecom Japan 
Co.,Ltd. 
(CHTJ)InfoExplorer 
Co.,Ltd. (IFE)Chunghwa 
Investment Co., 
Ltd. (CHI)New Prospect 
Investments 
Holdings Ltd. 
(New Prospect)Prime Asia 
Investments Group 
Ltd. (Prime Asia)6 7 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Profile of Chunghwa TelecomConsolidated Financial Performance of Chunghwa Telecom and Subsidiaries (in Millions of NT$)
2008 2009 2010
Net Revenues 201,670 198,361 202,430
Operating Costs 113,546 112,736 115,332
Operating Expenses 29,556 29,231 29,731
Income from Operations 58,567 56,394 57,367
Earnings per Share (NT$) 4.64 4.51 4.91
2008 2009 2010
Local Telephone 1,273 97.3% 1,244.8 97.1% 1,230.7 96.9%
Mobile Telephone 895 35.2% 926.9 34.4% 967.9 34.8%
Broadband Access 431 83.8% 430.4 83.0% 437.4 80.5%
HiNet 410 68.1% 406.7 71.8% 409.6 69.6%Market Position of Chunghwa Telecom (User Number in Millions and Market Share)
Services DescriptionRevenue Comparison with the 
Same Period Last YearRatio
Mobile Communication 
ServicesMobile networks spurred increases in value-
added business revenues and cell phone sales revenues.NT$ 89.04 billion (+2.9%)
44.0%
InternetIncreases in broadband users and continuous user upgrades from ADSL to optical fiber.NT$ 24.48 billion (+3.5%)
12.1%
Local Telephone 
ServicesEffects of replacement by mobile phones and VOIP.NT$ 32.25 billion (-2.9%)
34.9%Domestic Long 
Distance Telephone 
ServicesEffects of replacement by mobile phones and VOIP, as well as NCC demands for lower rates.NT$ 6.65 billion (-10.2%)
Broadband Access 
(ADSL and FTTx)Growth in optical fiber revenues remedied reductions in ADSL revenues.NT$ 20.32 billion (+2.1%)
International Fixed 
CommunicationGrowth in international routing rentals and international data exchanges.NT$ 15.33 billion (+1.9%)
7.7%
Others NT$ 2.68 billion (+82.0%) 1.3%
Total NT$ 202.43 billion (+2.1%) 100%Main Businesses of Chunghwa Telecom Domestic Fixed 
Communication6 7 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Profile of Chunghwa TelecomEffective Management of Capital Expenditures
Combined capital expenditures for 2010 totaled at NT$ 24.617 billion, of which 
NT$ 14.26 billion was spend on fixed domestic communication (including dial-up and 
broadband networks), NT$ 5.261 billion on mobile communications, NT$ 1.889 billion 
on internet, NT$ 1.787 on fixed international communication, and NT$ 1.42 on other 
expenditures.
Broadband operations consisted primarily of installing optical fiber networks to 
encourage ADSL clients to upgrade to optical fiber services, and thus catalyze user 
base growth and increase network efficiency. Mobile operations consisted primarily of 
upgrading coverage rates of 3G/HSPA/HSPA+ and other high speed networks while 
maintaining network communication quality. Also, in the next two to three years, there will be capital expenditures related to cloud operations.
Management of Subsidiaries
We cautiously proceed with strategic planning, assessment, evaluation, post-
investment management, performance assessment, withdrawal mechanisms, and 
discipline, etc. of transfer investments. Not only are business conditions and perfor-
mance of transfer investment industries analyzed regularly, we also assist our subsid -
iaries in formulating and promoting performance management systems.
Our internal control covers group level risk management and administrative level 
business activities, to enforce risk control mechanisms for subsidiaries. Simultane-ously, we have also formulated the management mechanism to manage of our ap-
pointments of the CEO, President, and shareholder representatives of transfer invest-
ment businesses, in order to facilitate examination and managerial duties.
2010 (Actual) 2011 (Estimated)
Domestic Fixed Communication 14,259,706 17,614,610
Mobile Communication 5,237,274 5,754,160
Internet 1,794,855 4,599,000
International Fixed 
Communication1,654,047 2,217,485
Others 1,357,596 949,500
Total 24,303,478 31,134,755
Note: the data above are not consolidated information.Capital Expenditures8 9 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Management
Core Capabilities – Higher Benchmarks
Expansion of Supplier Management
Communication with Stakeholders
Establishment of CSR Management System
Establishment of International CSR Partnership RelationsKey Performance Indicators of Corporate Social Responsibility
● DuringFinance Asia2010’snomination ofthemostoutstanding Asiancorporations, 
Chunghwa was honored with recognitions for being the “Best Managed Company,” “Best 
Corporate Governance,” “Best Corporate Social Responsibility,” and “Best Commitment 
to Strong Dividends,” also making Chunghwa the only Taiwanese telecommunications 
company to win awards
● Winningthe“TaiwanCorporateSustainabilityReport Award–Gold Award”forthethirdtime
● Sixth“CorporateSocialResponsibility AwardbyGlobalViewsMonthlyMagazine”in2010
trategyS
esponseRddressA
argetTanagementM
Awards
Corporate Social Responsibility Management8 9 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementCore Capabilities – Higher Benchmarks
Asavaluable enterprise, howtotakemoreresponsible actionstoaccount forallstakeholders 
affected byourcorebusiness fieldsisanissuewehaveneverignoredoutsideofourprofessional
capacity. Webelievethatusinguniquecorporate resources andspecializations tofocusonrelevant
publicissuesandimprovecorporate competition environments cansimultaneously benefitsociety
and corporations. Meanwhile, maturation of corporate social responsibility needs to be infused 
into a corporation’s core activities to become a corporate cultural foundation that empowers organizationalintegrityandinspirationofinnovation.
Taiwan’s CSR Benchmarks
The driving force behind Chunghwa Telecom’s 
corporate social responsibility comes from demands 
for corporations in the globalized age: including global 
corporate deployments, risks and opportunities for 
corporate image and reputation, requirements for 
disclosure of non-financial performance information, 
competition for competent personnel, etc.
Since starting the corporate social responsibility 
initiative in 2007, our planned objectives are to use extra-
legal voluntary actions to fulfill sustainable development and infuse corporate social responsibilities into core 
business processes. Over the years, Chunghwa 
Telecom had become a CSR benchmark for Taiwan’s 
telecommunications industry, and we will gradually 
develop corporate social responsibility from corporate 
strategies to competition strategies, and furthering it 
organizational operation strategies.Dual Axis of CSR
The primary axis of our corporate social 
responsibilities is the core capability of transforming 
corporate resources to fulfill corporate social 
responsibilities. On one hand, we utilize our 
characteristics as an ICT operator to extend the 
empowerment of corporate social responsibilities and 
apply resources in the most efficient ways. On the other 
hand, we also encourage corporate volunteers to help 
promote corporate social responsibilities together.trategyS
CSR Committee Organizational Chart
Premier Den-yih Wu of the Executive Yuan photographed with Chairman 
Lu during the corporate social responsibility award ceremony of Global Views Magazine.Premier Den-yih Wu of the Executive Yuan represents CommonWealth 
Magazine to issue the Excellence in Corporate Social Responsibility Award, with Chairman Lu receiving the award.
Chunghwa Telecom CSR Committee
Chunghwa Telecom
Foundation
Corporate 
Governance 
GroupEmployee 
Care GroupConsumer 
Care GroupEnvironmental 
Sustainability 
GroupDigital 
Opportunities 
GroupCorporate 
Volunteerism 
GroupCSR SecretariatConsultants10 11 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementExpansion of Supplier Management
We are the first Taiwanese telecommunications company to formulate supplier management 
policies. In2009,wehavecompleted the“BasicStatusSurveyonCorporate SocialResponsibility
forSuppliers” questionnaire. In2010,wehavemailedoutquestionnaires andheldsupplier
conferences. The “Code of Corporate Social Responsibility for Suppliers” and “Guidelines of FacilitatingSupplierstoFulfillSocialResponsibilities”willbeformulatedandimplementedin2011.
Creating Win-Win Cooperative 
Relationships
Cooperating and growing with suppliers is our 
responsibility for the information and communications 
industry. Article 8 from the “Chunghwa Telecom 
Corporate Code of Ethics” stipulates that: we need 
to treat our suppliers fairly, and avoid obtaining unfair 
benefits from hidden, abuse of advantages, or other 
physical distortion. Article 10 also declares that we will 
not join forces with competitors to interfere with or reject 
transactions with suppliers.
Over the years, we have further used various 
measures to fulfill joint growth with suppliers. For example, we work with suppliers in research and 
development, as well as providing incentives. Rights 
to our patented technologies are also transferred 
fairly. In terms of hardware, we continue supporting 
telecommunications facilities and testing environments. 
In terms of software, we provide expansions and open 
cooperative platforms to achieve profit sharing.First CSR Status Survey for 
Suppliers
We are the first Taiwanese telecommunications 
company to formulate supplier management policies. 
In 2008, we officially announced the “Environmental, 
Human Rights, and Ethical Principles for Suppliers.” 
In 2009, we have completed the “Basic Status Survey 
on Corporate Social Responsibility for Suppliers to 
Chunghwa Telecom” questionnaire. We have also mailed 
out questionnaires and held supplier conferences in 
2010.
Of our top 200 suppliers, we have received 99 
effective questionnaires. Questionnaire contents comprehensively cover: CSR policies and enforcement 
conditions, management organizations, labor and 
commercial ethics, environmental safety and hygiene, 
green concepts, and promotional activities.
Formulation of Code of Corporate 
Social Responsibility for Suppliers
To further institutionalize supplier management, 
we have drafted the “Code of Corporate Social 
Responsibility for Suppliers,” which is awaiting approval 
from CEO. Afterwards, relevant departments will begin 
preparing to formulate the “Guidelines of Facilitating 
Suppliers to Fulfill Social Responsibilities,” which is 
expected to be implemented in 2012.
As planned, suppliers who hold contracts valued 
above certain monetary amounts will need to write the 
basic status survey on corporate social responsibility for suppliers in the future. We will also visit major 
suppliers on site as is practically needed, to understand 
how they are currently enforcing their corporate social 
responsibilities. We will also publicly award recognition 
for suppliers who demonstrate competence in corporate 
social responsibilities.anagementM
We will continue holding supplier CSR exchange meetings to deepen 
partnership relations with suppliers.10 11 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementExpansion of Supplier Management Engagement with Stakeholders
We combine corporate social responsibilities with daily corporate business management because 
we believe that appropriate management of corporate social responsibility issues are a critical factor to achieving our mission, and enables us to face possible future problems and challenges 
more responsibly, thus creating more value for the company’s business developments, clients, and 
vast stakeholder base. We focus on listening to the voices of all stakeholders, and adopt proactive communicationapproachestopromptlyandreasonablyrespondtoexternaldemands.
Multilayered Channels
Engagement with stakeholders and identification 
of key issues is the core of CSR. Since publishing its 
first CSR report in 2007, Chunghwa Telecom had been 
enhancing interaction with stakeholders and irregularly 
inviting different stakeholders to meetings with relevant 
departmental managers. Our CSR reports are also 
verified by third parties to ensure the reliability and 
accuracy of information contained therein.
Our method can be summarized as follows:1.  Inviting stakeholders: invitations issued by the 
Public Affairs Division.
2.  Designing opinion survey questionnaires: 
contents of CSR reports are organized into 
questionnaires.
3.  Meeting: stakeholders are invited to speak, 
while departmental managers respond as appropriate.Analysis of Key Issues
We determine the priority sequence of different 
issues of concern to stakeholder through the “impacts on corporate operation” and “impacts on social environment” 
aspects. As before, creating digital opportunities is the 
most important task that our CSR operations should 
focus on. Also, “customer privacy protection” and 
“information and communication technology usage for 
disabled persons” is also closely related to our core 
operations. Under rapid technological development, we 
need to ensure that user rights are not violated. Also, creating specifically demanded products for different 
clientele groups is society’s expectation for us, and also 
possible future business opportunities.
Priority Sequence:
Applying comprehensive procedures to 
determine the importance of every issue
Staff 
EmploymentCustomer 
PrivacyDigital 
Opportunities
Anti-
MonopolyElectromagnetic 
WavesInformation and 
Communication 
Technology Usage for 
Disabled Persons
Employee 
HealthRecycling 
Discarded Cell 
PhonesClimate Change
Impacts on Social EnvironmentIdentification:
Issues from Multitudes of Stakeholders and SourcesKey Issues Matrix
Primary Source:
●Customer Feedback●Email●Stakeholder Meeting●
Investor Questionnaire
●Employee Questionnaire
●Supplier Questionnaire
●Consumer Survey●Community Investment Assessment●External VerificationPrimary Issues:●Climate Change●Digital Opportunities●
 Information and CommunicationTechnology Usage for Disabled Persons
●Staff Employment●Anti-Monopoly●Electromagnetic Waves●Energy Usage●Employee Health●Customer Privacy● 
Recycling Discarded Cell Phones LowHigh
HighddressAImpacts on Corporate Operation12 13 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementSMART Management System
Since introducing corporate social responsibility 
in 2007, we continue to discuss and deepen our 
commitments. After the “Corporate Social Responsibility 
Best Practice Principles for TWSE/GTSM Listed 
Companies” is passed by Taiwan Stock Exchange in 
2010, it is now fully integrated into business processes.
We have developed SMART corporate social 
responsibility management systems with unique 
strategies, management, actions, responses, and target 
stages to account for the six aspects of corporate social responsibility, including corporate governance, employee 
care, consumer care, environmental sustainability, 
digital opportunities, and corporate volunteerism, fully 
incorporating them into our business plans. Through 
external questionnaire and internal assessment 
procedures, all task groups are asked to formulate new 
targets for the following year at the end of the current 
year, as well as assessing whether their own strategies, 
management, actions, responses require additional reinforcement.Raising Corporate Value
We believe that strategizing and management of 
corporate social responsibilities will effectively control 
risks, lower costs, increase brand values, and create 
new growth opportunities, thus incorporating more value 
for stakeholders, including shareholders.
Looking into the future, we will continue applying 
our core capabilities as we enforce ethical business 
practices to create corporate social responsibility 
benchmarks; attend to employee demands to welcome 
the cloud age and create responsible brands; and address climate change to concentrate on digital 
opportunities and face the challenges of the new era. 
The core of all strategies point to the same objective, 
which is our vision: “Becoming the most valuable and 
reliable information and telecommunications company.”Establishment of CSR Management System
Chunghwa Telecom had become a CSR benchmark for Taiwan’s telecommunications industry, 
and we will gradually develop corporate social responsibility from corporate strategies to competition strategies, andfurthering itorganizational operation strategies ininvestment, 
production, management, and other stages, thus infusing management visions for corporate social responsibilities and environmental sustainability and enforcing them accordingly.
Corporate Social Responsibilities and Corporate Values
Raising Corporate 
ValuesCompetition 
StrategyCorporate 
StrategyDriving Force 
for Sustainable 
DevelopmentCompetitiveness 
AssessmentExternal
 Assessment
Internal 
AssessmentddressA12 13 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementCSR Exchange and Learning
Facing the highly uncertain issues of sustainability 
and energy-saving, we learn from corporations that set 
the highest international benchmarks and absorb the 
experience of foreign CSR benchmark corporations to 
enable us to continue formulating and planning more 
appropriate and cost-effective strategies and actions to 
maintain our capacity for progress.
In 2010, we engaged in CSR experience sharing 
and exchange with Britain’s Business in the Community 
(BITC), Vodafone, and Britain’s Carbon Trust Company. We also shared Chunghwa Telecom’s CSR performance 
results, thus attaining the benefits of international CSR 
exchange and learning.
Becoming a Global CSR  
Benchmark
VOver the years, Chunghwa Telecom actively 
responds to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 
questionnaire, and has engaged in in-depth discussions 
and exchanges with Vodafone regarding environmental 
sustainability, supply chain management, climate 
change, practical considerations over DJSI, and other 
issues.
We have joined the Mayday Network initiated by 
BITC. We are also working with international industry 
partners to commit to searching for the most efficient method to address climate change and taking concrete 
actions. By answering Mayday Network’s carbon 
reduction target of “reducing 10% of greenhouse gas 
emissions by 2012 and returning to 2008 levels,” 
Chunghwa Telecom declares its determination to 
confront global warming. By joining Mayday Network, we 
promise to:
●Transform into more sustainable directions to 
ensure long term corporate values
●Manage carbon emissions, develop carbon action plans, and formulate reduction targets
●Participation from employees / customers / 
suppliers
●Reducing carbon emissions with concrete actionIn the future, we will continue to be in contact with 
BITC. We also plan to inspire new innovative solutions to the four aspects of workplaces, markets, environments, 
and communities, and gradually enhance our foundation 
over environmental sustainability issues.
Low Carbon Products and Services
To comprehensively account for and enforce 
internal carbon management measures, we will also 
start focusing on developing low carbon products and 
services. We have met with the ICT representative 
of Carbon Trust to engage in in-depth exchange and 
learning over the foundation, schedule, and orientation 
of Chunghwa Telecom’s future implementation of carbon 
tracking of products or services. In the future, we will 
use energy conserving products and energy conserving 
volunteer services to enhance education for consumers, corporations, and sales and service locations regarding 
identification of carbon footprint and carbon labels, and 
gradually promote product and service labels to act as 
future foundations for emission reduction.
Looking into 2011, we will deliberate over 
implementation strategies and coordinate action 
plans for the five CSR issues of: 1. Environmental 
information disclosure; 2. Increasing energy efficiency; 
3. Creating renewable energy; 4. Promoting autonomous environmental protection; and 5. Added value for 
products and services.Establishment of International CSR 
Partnership Relations
Weactively focusonexchanges withoverseas industry leadersandinternational organizations, 
while also sharing our performance and results in CSR enforcement. We rely on these mutual 
learning opportunities to inspire more ideas in the direction of corporate social responsibilities and 
sustainable developments, while also encouraging mutual connection and cooperation, so that our 
promisesproducemoreunlimited,wider,anddeeperinfluences.esponseR14 15 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementSinceintroducing andpromoting corporate socialresponsibility in2006,wehavegradually 
accumulated various performance indicators, represented by different symbols in this report. Legal 
indicators (     ) represent relevant legislations that we observe in our corporate social responsibility 
duties, benchmark indicators (    ) represent the benchmark performance yielded by our corporate 
social responsibility duties, while management indicators (    ) represent tasks that are under continuousperformancemanagement. Also,()representsourawardswoninrelevantfields.
2008 2009 2010 Explanation Page No.
Customer Satisfaction: 
 consumer customers 
(perfect score is 5)3.66 3.73 3.81 ↑ P. 27
Percentage of female managers 
(%)22.11 22.48 23.04 ↑ P. 33
Number of disabled persons 
employed695 709 721 ↑ P. 33
Number of maternity leave 
applications52 55 54 Same P. 36
Service providers with the highest 
amounts of green purchases 
(in millions of NT$)-- 2.06 4.1 ↑ P. 47
Total hours of corporate volunteer 
services-- 41,979 147,083 ↑ P. 52
Operation of computer-related 
classes for remote areas 
(hours)-- 1,023 1,240 ↑ P. 53
Monetary amounts of social 
contribution 
(in thousands of NT$)247,516 1,556,467 1,875,187 ↑ P. 52      Relevant regulations from code of conduct
Formulation of ethical business practice regulations
Risks and opportunities from addressing climate change
Labor Union ActPeople with Disabilities Rights Protection ActNCC universal service policyP.19
P.20P.18P.33
P.33
P.53                 First telecommunications company to formulate 
CSR policies for suppliers
The only unionized telecommunications company that signed collective agreements with employees
First telecommunications company to achieve carbon 
reduction targetsP.10
P.33
P.43Key Performance Indicators of
Corporate Social ResponsibilityargetT
Legal 
Indicators
Management 
IndicatorsBenchmark 
Indicators14 15 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementCorporate Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE / GTSM Listed Companies Page No.
1.Enforcement of Corporate Governance
    (1) Information regarding companies formulating corporate social responsibility policies or standards, and 
assessments of the implementation results of such programs.9
    (2) Information regarding the operation of units created by companies dedicated to overseeing enforcement of corporate social responsibilities.9
  
  (3) Information regarding companies conducting corporate ethical educational, training, and briefing for the Board of Directors, Supervisors, and employees, and incorporating them into employee performance evaluation systems to establish clear and effective incentive and disciplinary systems.19-20
2.Development of sustainable environments
    (1) Information regarding companies committing to increasing the usage efficiency of all resources, and 
using renewable materials with low negative environmental impacts.44-45
    (2) Information regarding companies establishing environmental management systems appropriate for their industry’s characteristics.42-43
    (3) Information regarding appointment of dedicated environmental management units or personnel for environmental maintenance.42
    (4) Information regarding companies addressing the impacts of climate change on business activities and formulating corporate energy and carbon conservation and greenhouse gas reduction strategies.43
3.Protection of Public Interests
    (1) Information regarding companies complying with relevant labor legislations, protecting legal rights of 
employees, and establishing appropriate management methodologies and procedures.34-35
    (2) Information regarding companies providing employees with safe and healthy working environments, and conducting regular safety and health education for employees.38
    (3) Information regarding companies formulating and disclosing its consumer rights policies, and providing transparent and effective consumer complaint procedures for its products and services.26-27
    (4) Information regarding companies working with suppliers to jointly improve corporate social responsibilities.10
  
  (5) Information regarding companies participating in community development and relevant activities of public non-governmental organizations through commercial activities, material donations, corporate volunteer services, or other free professional services.52
4.Enhancement of Information Disclosure
    (1) Methods with which companies disclose information related to the relevance and reliability of their 
corporate social responsibilities.21
    (2) Information regarding companies producing corporate social responsibility reports and disclosing and promoting corporate social responsibilities.all
5. If companies establish their own corporate social responsibility regulations in accordance with the aforementionedCorporate Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE / GTSM Listed Companies, please explain any differences between their business practices and their regulations:all
6. Important information helpful towards understanding the enforcement of corporate social responsibilities (such as companies formulating programs and measures for environmental protection, community participation, social contribution, public interests, consumer rights, human rights, safety and hygiene, and other social responsibility activities, as well as the status of the execution of such actions):
all
7. If products or corporate social responsibility reports of companies have passed auditing standards of relevant verification agencies, they shall be explained in detail:62-63Table of Mandatory DutiesargetT16 17 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate Governance
Enforcement of Ethical Business Practices
Risk and Crisis Management
Code of Conduct
Ethical Corporate CultureStrengthening Transparency and Management
● Winning the “Classic Award” by China Credit Information Services as the only service industry 
company whose business performance ranked among the top 500 every year for the last 20 years
● Fifth consecutive year of winning the highest honor of A + from the information disclosure 
assessment by the Securities & Futures Institute of Taiwan, and also ranked among the top ten 
largest companies with the A + honor.
● Fifth consecutive year of winning the highest honor of A + from the information disclosure 
assessment by the Securities & Futures Institute of Taiwan
●“Asia’s Best Companies” evaluation by Finance Asia 2010
● “Best Financial Disclosure Award” and “Best Financial Disclosure Award in the Asia-Pacific Region” 
by IR Global Ranking
●“Best Corporate Governance and Information Disclosure” award by IR Magazine
● Long-term credit rating of “AA” by Standard & Poor’s and “twAAA / twA-1 +” on long / short issuer 
credit ranking by Taiwan Ratings Corporation
trategyS
esponseRddressA
argetTanagementM
Corporate GovernanceAwards16 17 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate GovernanceOperation and Performance  
Assessment of the Board of Directors
Chunghwa Telecom’s Board of Directors is the 
highest governance body, with the Chairman also acting 
as the company’s Central Executive Officer (CEO). The 
Board of Directors is responsible for appointing and 
nominating high level managers, as well as formulating 
the company’s corporate social responsibility, corporate 
citizenship, and sustainable development strategies. The 
Board of Directors contains 13 seats (with 3 independent 
seats), while there are 3 seats for Supervisors. Currently, 
there are 3 members in the 13-seat Board of Directors (including 1 independent seat), and the 3 Supervisor 
seats are all occupied by women. Also, 1 seat is 
stipulated for the Labor Director to ensure diversity in the 
Board of Directors. In 2010, the Board of Directors held 
10 meetings, with average attendance rates among all 
members over 90%.
To consolidate supervisory functions and enhance 
management effectiveness, the company’s Board 
of Directors established the “Strategy,” “Audit,” and “Compensation” committees. To protect Directors 
and Supervisors from suffering losses from personal 
responsibilities and finances while performing their duties 
due to third party litigation, we have purchased indemnity 
insurance for Directors and Supervisors.
The Ministry of Transportation and Communications 
(MOTC) is the largest shareholder of Chunghwa 
Telecom, with the company’s Chairman and President 
acting as shareholder representatives for the government, committed to executing policies and fulfilling 
social responsibilities. They are also examined by MOTC 
at the end of each year. Compensation for Chunghwa’s 
Directors, Supervisors, President, and Vice Presidents 
account for 0.29% of net profits in 2010, and 0.32% of 
net profits in 2009.Information Disclosure
As a publicly traded company in Taiwan, we also 
issue American investment certificates that are publicly traded in the New York Stock Exchange. All issues 
of concern to investors are simultaneously disclosed 
domestically and abroad in Chinese and English, 
providing instant financial and business information. 
For six consecutive years from 2006 to 2011, we have 
been awarded the honor of A+ from assessments of 
information disclosure for publicly traded companies.
We have also formulated the “Administrative 
Regulations on Managem ent and Control of Prevention against Insider Trading in Chunghwa Telecom,” to 
prevent inappropriate information disclosure, and ensure 
the timeliness and accuracy of information disclosed to 
the public.
Business Principles
To improve the quality of business sales and 
establish consumers’ trust , we have formulated the 
“Business Principles” to ensure compliance with 
legislative requirements from regulatory agencies, which 
is also incorporated into annual evaluation criteria for 
high level managers. Our reputation and corporate 
image is maintained by the joint diligence of all of our 
colleagues.Enforcement of Ethical Business Practices
We intend to shape “Chunghwa Telecom” into the most valuable and most reliable information and 
telecommunications company. Ontopofexpanding ouroperations, wefurtheremphasis reliable
values and ethical operation. The “Code of Corporate Governance for Chunghwa Telecom Co., 
Ltd”isourofficialcorporate governance policy,whichcovers:establishment ofeffective corporate
governance frameworks, protection of shareholder rights, enhancement of Board of Directors 
functions, utilization ofSupervisor functions, respectforstakeholder rights,andincreasing 
information transparency.
Shareholder Structure
Note:  information is accurate according to January 15, 2011, the standardized 
date of capital reduction and stock transfer for Chunghwa Telecom.Foreign agencies 
and foreigners: 27.972%Government agencies: 36.810%
Financial agencies: 18.574%
Other organizations: 2.285%Individuals: 
14.359%trategyS18 19 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate GovernanceRisk and Crisis Management
Identifying and controlling risk incidents are responsible actions from corporations to enhance 
operations. Our framework contains comprehensive risk management policies and systems, augmented bycomplete information systems forrecording andtracking, effectively utilizing risk
control performance and reducing risks and dangers in managerial aspects.
Risk Analysis and Response
We have always been committed to risk 
management policies that: “1. Actively establish 
risk management awareness among colleagues; 2. 
Discover potential risks and make dynamic responsive 
adjustments to account for environmental changes; 
3. Utilize opportunities within risks in a steadfast and 
proactive fashion to reasonably ensure achievement 
of company targets and create maximized shareholder 
values.” We have always formulated the “Chunghwa 
Telecom Risk management Regulations” to act as 
references for all employees in the execution of the work. As well, the President is designated as the person 
of the highest level of responsibility for risk and crisis 
management, who reports to the Board of Directors.
Currently, we have adopted risk maps to act as risk 
assessment tools, and their parameters include: legal 
risks, network maintenance risks, market competition 
risks, and financial operation risks. At the same time, 
we conduct sensitivity analyses and stress tests for 
the company’s major business operations to minimize possible losses through risk absorption, risk transfer, risk 
reduction, and risk avoidance.
In 2011, a new control mechanism is added to 
request that responsible units conduct “preliminary risk 
assessments” and “response measures” for major and 
instantaneous risk information to facilitate tracking and 
control, in order to lower their impact levels.
Climate Change Risks
After the flood disaster of August 8, we have 
officially incorporated factors from “climate change 
issues” into the “performance and risk management” 
assessment system. Significant risks are listed in the 
group’s annual business plan, which will undergo target 
management and performance evaluation to facilitate 
continuous confirmation and feedback. In November 
2010, we have completed the “Response for Climate 
Change – Chunghwa Telecom’s Strategic Actions for 
Environmental Protection, Energy Conservation, and Carbon Reduction.” Execution priorities or improvement 
plans were formulated to the overall project, current 
execution status, short term and long term action plans, 
etc, to enhance disaster resistance capabilities and 
enforce responsible communication.Risk Management Responsibilities
Organization Name Authorities and Responsibilities
Board of Directors (including 
Audit and Strategy 
Committees)1.  Establish risk management 
policies, frameworks, and 
culture.
2.  Ensure the effectiveness of risk 
management mechanisms and 
facilitate resource allocation.
High Level Management
(Chief Executive Office, 
President, Vice President)1. Execution of risk management decisions 
rendered by the Board of Directors.
2.  Coordinate interdepartmental 
risk management interactions and communications.
Headquarters (the 
Corporate Planning 
Department act as Executive 
Secretary)1.  Compile the execution results of 
risk management actions.
2.  Assist and supervise risk 
management activities in 
subordinate branches.
3.  Determine risk classifications and 
recommend absorption methods based on environmental changes.
4.  Conduct performance evaluation 
and coordinate after risk adjustments.
Subordinate branches1.  Execute daily risk management 
activities.
2.  Conduct self assessments for 
risk control activities.anagementM18 19 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate GovernanceAmendments to Code of Conduct
The “Code of Ethics of Chunghwa Telecom Co., 
Ltd.” is the basic regulation over daily execution of 
business operations for all of our employees, and also 
applicable to all service providers. Also, the “Chunghwa 
Telecom Corporate Principles on Violation Cases,” 
“Chunghwa Telecom Corporate Principles on Business 
Secrets Keeping,” and “Chunghwa Telecom Corporate 
Human Resource Department: Employees Complaints 
Hotline” are followed to provide austere complaint 
mechanisms that allow employees to communicate opinions under safety and secrecy.
The “Code of Ethics” outlines the principles that 
Directors, Supervisors, managers, and employees shall 
observe and maintain, the contents of which cover 
personal responsibilities, group responsibilities, and 
responsibility regulations regarding Chunghwa Telecom, 
the public, and other stakeholders. It is emphasized that 
employees shall act honestly and ethically, avoid conflicts 
of personal interests, protect business secrets, protect and appropriately use company assets, prohibit insider 
trading, etc, while responsibilities to be undertaken by 
employees who violate company regulations are also 
stipulated.
To account for changes over time, the “Code of 
Ethics” will be amended in the following directions:
1. Additions to employee care, anti-corruption, anti-
bribery, environmental protection enforcement, and 
establishment of healthy and safe working environments to enhance corporate governance and internal controls.
2. Applicable to the whole group: affiliated industries 
and organizations of our company shall conduct 
business activities according to the spirit of our codes 
of conduct, and may also formulate relevant regulations 
over their business needs.Ethical Evaluations of Employee 
Behavior
The “Code of Ethics” is not only published on the 
company’s internal and external websites, online tests 
on codes of conduct are also held annually to enhance 
the conduct and value system within employees, so 
that the code of conduct may be observed by all. Also, 
the “Evaluation Principles of Employees of Chunghwa 
Telecom Co., Ltd.” and “Incentive and Disciplinary 
Standards of Employees of Chunghwa Telecom” are 
formulated for employee evaluation. All regulations 
are communicated to and followed by employees, so that employees clearly understand their codes of 
conduct. When employees encounter incidents justifying 
rewards or actions justifying discipline, they will also be 
rewarded or disciplined according to the aforementioned 
regulations.
In 2010, a total of 15 persons were involved in 8 
violations against codes of conduct, of which 3 persons 
were involved in 1 violation against information security 
regulations, 2 persons were involved in 2 violations against secrecy regulations, 3 persons were involved 
in 1 violation against telecommunications legislations, 
4 persons were involved in 1 infringement on company 
finances, and 3 persons were involved in 3 cases of 
inappropriate conduct. Total violations were less than 
the 12 cases reported in 2009. Not only do we clearly 
enforce disciplinary orders, we also continue to enhance 
relevant education and promotional activities.Code of Conduct
We insist that the conduct of the company’s employees fulfill ethical standards. In other words, 
strict codes of conduct and ethical doctrines shall be followed during business and administrative execution processes, andcannotbecompromised toachievespecialobjectives, inordertoensure
thatourworkfulfillslegalandsocialethicalregulations, andthatinappropriate behaviors canbe
prevented.ddressA20 21 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate GovernanceEthical Corporate Culture
Ethical business practices not only enhance investor confidence in the company and increase 
corporate values,theycanfurtherreducefundraising costsandachieve win-win objectives for
enterprises and investors. Therefore, we have formulated the “Ethical Corporate Management Best 
Practice Principles forCHUNGHWA TELECOM CO.,LTD.”toactasthepolicytobefollowed byall
of Chunghwa.
Ethical business practice is an important issue that 
greatly concerns all of us today. The United Nations 
already proposed the Global Compact in 1999, listing 
anti-corruption as a major topic in corporate social 
responsibilities, and proposing that corporations shall 
undertake the responsibility of proactive creating ethical 
and fair business environments.
Thus, the Board of Directors further passed 
the“Ethical Corporate Management Best Practice 
Principles for CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO., LTD.” to clarify legislations and regulations that shall be followed 
by Directors, Supervisors, managers and employees 
as they conduct their work, and also prevent unethical 
behaviors. Such regulations are policies that apply to all 
of Chunghwa.
1.  Objective behind formulating such regulations 
(Article 1).
2.  Clear prohibition against unethical behavior and 
attitudes on unethical profit (Articles 2 and 3).
3.  Outlining relevant legislations to be followed by 
the company to fulfill ethical business practices (Article 4).
4.  Outlining ethically sound policies that shall 
be formulated by the company to create business environments of sustainable development, as well as 
creating positive corporate governance and risk control 
mechanisms (Article 5).
5.  Regulations over priorities on prevention of 
unethical behaviors that shall be formulated by the company, in order to enforce ethical policies (Article 6).
6.  Outlining parameters of priorities on prevention 
of unethical behaviors (Article 7).
7.  Outlining ethical business practice policies 
that the company shall clearly state within company 
publications and public documents, and proper execution 
of such policies, in order to enhance the company’s 
determination and promise for ethical business practices 
(Article 8).
8.  Outlining prohibitions on the company engaging 
in transactions with entities with records of unethical actions, so that the company may engage in commercial activities fairly and transparently (Article 9).
9. Clear prohibitions on issuing or accepting bribes, 
providing illegal political donations, inappropriate charity 
donations or sponsorships (Article 10 to 13).
10.  Outlining the Board of Directors’ responsibility 
to supervise the company in prevention of unethical 
behaviors and ensuring fulfillment of policies, which will 
be handled by dedicated units (Article 14).
11.  Outlining legislations, regulations, and priorities 
on prevention of unethical behaviors that shall be followed by the company’s Directors, Supervisors, 
managers, and employees as they conduct their work, in 
order to fulfill the company’s ethical business practices 
(Article 15).
12.  Outlining conflict of interest avoidance policies 
that shall be formulated by the company for its Directors, 
Supervisors, and managers (Article 16).
13. The company shall establish effective 
accounting systems and internal control systems, while internal audit personnel shall also regularly inspect 
compliance to such systems (Article 17).
14.  Outlining relevant operational procedures 
and behavioral guidelines that shall be formulated by 
the company to facilitate compliance from Directors, 
Supervisors, managers, and employees as they conduct 
their work, in order to fulfill ethical business practices 
(Article 18).
15.  Outlining regular education, training, and 
promotional activities that shall be held by the company to fulfill and promote ethical business practices, as 
well as creating appropriate complaint and disciplinary 
systems (Article 19 and 20).
16. Disclosure of information (Article 21).We have created promotional and executive units 
for malpractice prevention, as well channels for notifying violations and malpractice, to maintain the company’s business secrets, and prevent violations, malpractice, 
insider trading, etc.esponseR20 21 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Corporate GovernanceEnsuring GRI Frameworks as the 
Ultimate Principles
After the introduction of the “Corporate Social 
Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE / 
GTSM Listed Companies,” Taiwan Stock Exchange 
further refined its developmental directions in terms of 
enhancing corporate social responsibility information 
disclosure for publicly listed companies. Taiwan Stock 
Exchange proposed the third generation guideline 
of Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines (also referred to as GRI G3 
Guidelines) as the most important reference and framework of information disclosure. We will continue to 
emphasize CSR issues and report publication.
Regular Disclosure of  
Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reduction InformationTaiwan Stock Exchange also encourages trends 
of publicly listed companies disclosing greenhouse gas 
emissions and reduction information in their annual 
reports and public documents. In the future, we will 
follow orders from regulatory agencies and voluntarily 
disclose relevant information in annual reports and public 
documents, to enhance corporate governance and fulfill 
corporate social responsibilities.
Chunghwa Telecom is committed to energy 
conservation, carbon reduction, and sustainable environmental development, and is also the first 
Taiwanese telecommunications company to pass 
greenhouse gas examinations and certifications. In 
the future, we will also gradually disclose relevant 
information and continue to act as the benchmark of 
Taiwan’s domestic service industries.
AA 1000 as Reporting Certification 
Standard
To improve the quality of our reports, we began 
adopting AA 1000 as our reporting certification standard 
in 2009. AA 1000 is the certification standard devised by 
the Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability, which 
emphasizes reports shall base its certification on its 
production process, such as confirming the identifies 
of stakeholders, communication with stakeholders, 
and confirming mutual issues with stakeholders. The 
inclusiveness, completeness, and comparability of 
reports are also emphasized. We have adopted training classes and other methods to enhance recognition for AA 
1000 within subordinate groups of the CSR committee. In2010,wehavewonthegoldawardfromtheserviceindustry sectionofthe“Taiwan Corporate
Sustainability ReportAward”heldbyTaiwanInstitute forSustainable Energy, forthethirdtime,
whichindicates stakeholder recognition fromacrosssocietyoverourthedirection andobjectives of
our commitments to information disclosure regarding corporate social responsibility. In the future, 
we will continue to keep ahead of regulatory agencies and act as Taiwan’s benchmark for corporate information disclosure.Strengthening Transparency and Management
Our company had won the highest honor of A+ from the information 
disclosure assessment by the Securities & Futures Institute of Taiwan for the fifth consecutive year.
Vice President Siew presents the gold award from the service industry section of the “Taiwan Corporate Sustainability Report Award” to Chairman Lu.argetT22 23 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Customer Service
Welcoming the Cloud Age
Service Development
Brand Management
Customer Relations ManagementCustomer Satisfaction SurveyPrivacy Protection and Information Security
Responsible Communication
Broadband Network EstablishmentOpen Cultural Innovation Platform
●  Platinum Awardfromthetelecommunications services sectionofthe“Trusted Brand”awardof2010forthe
AsianregionheldbyReader’sDigest
● Winning“TaiwaneseBenchmarkEnterprisewithBestReputationin2010byCommon¬WealthMagazine”
●EighthOutstandingService AwardfromGlobalViewsMagazinein2010
● Ninthconsecutive yearofwinning“IdealConsumer BrandinTaiwan,2010–1stPlaceintheMobilePhone
System&DataNetworkSer¬vices(ADSL)category”byManagementMagazine
● Thirdconsecutive yearofwinningthe“IdealBrandAward–1stPlaceintheTelecom Brandscategory” by
Business Today
● Winning “BestCustomer Support Center,” “BestContracting ServiceTeam,”“BestTechnology Application,”
and“Outstanding Administrative President” fromtheOutstanding AsiaPacificCustomer Relations Service
Awardin2009
● Winning “Digital Contents Category Award–Outstanding Information Applications andProducts of
Information Monthin2010”with LBSexpandedpractical applications– mobilelifestyle searchengine“hiPage 
search go!”
● Winning “GreenEnergyProductCategory Award–Outstanding Information Applications andProducts of
InformationMonthin2010”with“iENSmartLowEnergyServiceSystem”
● Winning theproduct/systeminnovation awardfromthenewindustry innovation demonstration heldbythe
Ministry ofEconomic Affairs’Department ofIndustrial Technology in2009with“Innovative ServicePlatform
of Hami e-Bookstore”
● Winning “IPv6OnlinePioneer Award”and“IPv6Promotional Contribution Award”bytheMinistry of
Transportation and Communications
● Reception ofthe“Research forIntegrated Application Services forOn-Board UnitsandEstablishment 
ofValue-Added ChainsforTransportation Information andCommunication” awardfromtheMinistry of
Transportation
AwardstrategyS
esponseRddressA
argetTanagementM
Customer Service22 23 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Customer Service
Leadership in Promoting Cloud 
Computation Services
According to Gartner Group’s analysis report, 
cloud computation ranks first in the ten most influential 
strategic technologies of 2011. The Council for Economic 
Planning and Development also believe that cloud 
computation will become Taiwan’s next trillion dollar 
industry.
Simply put, cloud computation consists of cloud 
servers, terminals, networks, and services. Cloud 
“networks” and “services” is Chunghwa Telecom’s 
industry field and advantage, which connects the “cloud” to the “terminals,” providing people and businesses with 
convenient cloud computation services.
We have consolidated technological capabilities 
to comprehensively lead the transformation and 
upgrading of Taiwan’s information and communications 
industry, and also build on our commitments. Our vision 
consists of three elements: becoming the domestic 
leader in cloud computation services, playing the role of 
industry promoter in cloud computations, and creating new services for cloud computations with strategic 
cooperation partners.
To promote cloud services, we have established the 
cloud computation service promotion task for in January 
2010 to formulate development strategies. NT$ 20 
billion is expected to be invested in five years for cloud 
computation development plans. Currently, we have 
introduced hicloud cloud computation services, customer 
relations management services, and Hami e-bookstore services, as well as forming major centers for cloud 
service operations, research and development in cloud 
computations, cloud computation tests, and cloud service 
experience. We have further developed and established 
“innovative platforms for cloud services” for cloud 
software developers to provide comprehensive innovative 
environments for cloud services and development tools 
for software applications. We have introduced the “China Cloud Market” to provide corporate clients with cloud 
application services that facilitate one-stop purchases for 
all essentials, conversion of purchases to rentals, and 
safety and stability, thus expanding cloud applications and shaping Taiwan as the largest cloud community.
Cloud Computation Association 
in Taiwan
In October 2010, we have jointly established 
the Cloud Computation Association in Taiwan with 
domestic information and communications industry 
leaders, while nominating Chairman Shyue-Ching 
Lu as the association’s first President. Currently, the 
association contains over 100 companies as members, 
who participate in committees such as cloud systems, 
cloud services, legal standards, cooperative promotions, 
etc, as they commit to developing cloud computation 
solutions and cloud computation application services. This association has become the medium of increasing 
the value of the cloud computation industry chain in 
Taiwan, enabling industry and academic communities 
with development, integration, testing, commerce, and 
output media platforms, moving towards the objective of 
becoming Taiwan’s next trillion dollar industry.Welcoming the Cloud Age
We have the advantages of foundational network frameworks, value-added telecommunications 
services, and technological integration between software and hardware, to comprehensively lead the transformation and upgrading of Taiwan’s information and communications industry, as well as 
providing clients with complete CRM cloud and value-added service solutions. Our vision consists 
ofthreeelements: becoming thedomestic leaderincloudcomputation services, playingtherole
of industry promoter in cloud computations, and creating new services for cloud computations with strategic cooperation partners.
The creation of the Cloud Computation Association in Taiwan accelerates 
the development of cloud computationtrategyS24 25 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Customer ServiceBringing Cloud to Homes – iHome 
Smart Phone
We have introduced the new home service “iHome 
Smart Phone” to address the modern “smart family’s” 
need for MICE (Monitor, Information, Communication, 
Entertainment). By combining NGN networks with cloud 
services and interconnected networks, the generic home 
phone can provide services of home monitoring and 
integration of online lifestyle information.
The “iHome Smart Phone” is of the same size as 
a home phone, combined with a 7-inch touch screen 
monitor to provide customers with home security, information services, communication services, and 
multimedia services, which can achieve many functions, 
including GPS, instantaneous road conditions, weather, 
and health services. Also, in the user-friendly spirit, 
people of any age can easily use this device.Smart Medication
To provide patients with more competent and 
instantaneous medical care services, and thus increase 
the service quality and management efficiency of 
medical institutions, Show Chwan Health Care System 
had further incorporated cloud technology into medical 
application services after working with us to introduce 
mobile technologies into electronic patient record 
management. The initiative includes electronic cloud 
patient records, cloud nursing information systems, 
cloud medication information systems, and cooperative developments for plans of complete incorporation of 
private medical cloud network into all of Show Chwan’s 
clinics, creating Taiwan’s first private medical cloud 
network, opening a new age for medical clouds.
With cloud nursing information systems as an 
example, Show Chwan Health Care System’s head 
nurse acts as the patent’s “health agent,” instantaneously 
demonstrating cloud application and mobility through 
the iPad, monitoring and managing the patient’s health conditions, making Show Chwan the first medical clinic 
to use iPad application services with medical cloud. This 
initiative also moves Show Chwan Health Care System a 
tremendous step forward towards a healthy economy.
Chairman Shyue-Ching Lu and Superintendent Min-Ho Huang of Show 
Chwan Health Care System, jointly announcing the creation of Taiwan’s first health and medical cloud, while also combining medical imagery and health information delivery, forming an unprecedented new medical application for iPadsService Development
Cloud integration placements bring endless innovative and forward-looking developments. We 
employ ICT professionalism to provide comprehensive cloud service platforms and high standards of information security protection mechanisms and accelerate propagation of cloud applications.trategyS24 25 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Customer ServiceBrand Management
Chunghwa Telecom possesses unique brand assets in Taiwanese society, which we continue 
tobuildonthrough brandmanagement andaddedvalue.In2010,Chunghwa Telecom wonthe
platinum award of the telecommunications services section of the “Trusted Brand” award held 
byReader’s DigestfortheAsiaPacificregionfortheseventh consecutive year,beingtheonly
Taiwanese telecommunications company to have won this honor.
Brand Organization and Brand 
Frameworks
Chunghwa Telecom adopts concentrated brand 
frameworks that account for individualistic brand 
presentation. We have a Brand Manager (President) 
in place to undertake supervise all brand creation, 
design, management, and adjustments in the company, 
as well as communicating with Deputy Brand Manager 
within each business group during CSR meetings. 
Deputy Brand Manager for business groups (i.e. vice 
presidents of subsidiaries) follows the company’s overall 
brand strategies as they undertake implementation responsibilities, as well as flexibly and independently 
operate their designated brands under authorized 
parameters.
Brand Strategies
● Brand Policy: concentrated strategies that account for 
development needs of individual fields
● Brand Management: the company’s Brand Manager 
is designated to handle the formulation, control and adjustment of all brand strategies for the company, while 
subsidiaries are responsible for implementation
● Brand Structure: concentrated brand structures that 
account for individualistic brand presentationNew Appreciation from New 
Colors
Since our founding, we have always relied on 
considerable experience and professionalism in our 
leadership capacity over developments of Taiwan’s 
telecommunications industry. To address the challenges 
of the new century, we are also ceaselessly reforming 
and improving ourselves. We have decided to introduce 
complete and total renewal on the foundation of our 
original Corporate Identity (CI) system, using bright 
orange, green, and blue stripes to empower Chunghwa 
Telecom with new spirits and new corporate imageries of innovation, dedication, growth, passion, and energy. 
Not only is this a transformation and standardization of 
our external image, we are more emphatic on internal 
recognition and fulfillment of overall visions. All of 
the company’s colleagues are operators of the brand 
capable of accumulating value for Chunghwa Telecom’s 
brands and contributing their work as they attend to 
every customer and address every small detail.
Starting from July 2010, approximately 300 
business locations in Taiwan will gradually undergo store logo replacement. We hope to present a new sensation 
to the public with innovative corporate imageries that 
combine inspiring services. In 2011, we intend to create 
multiple flagship stores, while also comprehensively 
introducing new augmented CI imageries and colors 
to improve consumer identification and impression in 
the new CI imageries through their presentation in the 
flagship stores, as well as creating new brand images.
Chunghwa Telecom’s new CI imageries, colors, and 
symbolic significances
●Orange: Passion, Energy
●Green: Growth, Care●Blue: Technology, Innovation
anagementM26 27 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Customer ServiceCustomer Relations Management
Forbetterserviceintegrity, weareenhancing notonlythecoordination between ourbusiness 
counters and call centers, but also our internet customer services. We have received the honors 
of “Best Customer Satisfaction Quality Control System ” and “Best Knowledge Management” from 
the“Customer Relationship Excellence Awards2010”heldbytheAsiaPacificCustomer Service
Consortium in Hong Kong.
Multi-Channel Services
We are comprehensively improving customer 
service quality for every service channels, while 
enhancing coordination between business counters and 
call centers to provide integral services. In 2010, we are 
further enhancing internet customer services.
●Live web chat service: 
For Instant Message (IM) users and for persons 
with hearing impairments, we have introduced text-
based live web chat customer services. With continuous 
service expanding, now all Chunghwa’s operations (mobile / fixed-line/broadband) have been covered.
●Internet communities: 
To serve the ever-growing Internet community 
populations, in January 2010, we have created a 
Facebook fan page “Chunghwa Telecom Dr. Q” to 
answer questions, to proactively publish information 
like FAQs, and discount offers, and to gather customer 
suggestions for internal references.
●Enhancing web call center:
To save our customers from the trouble of calling 
and visiting counters, we are increasing the scope of self- help services provided through the web call center. 
●Plan for the mobile customer service: 
For the increasing smart phone users, a mobile 
version of web call center and APPs for iOS and Android 
platform have been planned to provide friendly access to 
our services anywhere .Exquisite Services
For constant service qualities improvement, 
customer satisfaction for our business counters, call centers, and equipment maintenance service centers 
are constantly measured by the in-house survey team.  
Consulting firms were also introduced to assist the 
counters with service refinement and service quality 
assurance mechanism through the evaluation of 
mysterious shoppers, so that any defects in customer 
service will be promptly detected and corrected. We 
were honored with “First Line Service Quality Survey 2010 – 1st Place in the Telecommunications Industry” 
from Global Views. 
New measures introduced in 2010 were as follows :
●Emphasis on new technology equipment to bring new 
demands from customers. We established professional technical service team , such as online specialist 
instructors for smart phones to provide instantaneous, 
customized, and competent service.
●Proactive care: We proactively call the customers to 
inform them of useful information, to care and listen to 
their needs, then to devise the most suitable solutions 
for them.
●Commissioned a consultancy to handle ad hoc 
counseling into the aspiring service element, the business counter service standards, and instruct for 
customer service staff to master the critical moment of 
contact with customers, and refined service.
●An dedicated internal aspiring service web site : 
In order to motivate our agents to provide sincere 
and aspiring services that are beyond customers’ 
expectations, a dedicated internal aspiring service web 
site was set up to share aspiring service cases. Award 
ceremonies are also held to recognize the most aspiring 
service cases.anagementM26 27 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Customer ServiceCustomer Satisfaction Survey
Chunghwa Telecom aim to aspire our customers. We value customers’ satisfaction of our each 
service indicators, and their cognition of our enterprise image, brand value and quality of service. Therefore, we regularly commissioned third parties to conduct customer service satisfaction 
surveys. Also,weareregularytoaccepttheNCC’stelecommunications industryservicequality
surveys, andourevaluation scoresinallcriteriasignificantly exceedNCC’sspecified standard 
scores.
International Certifications and 
Awards
After obtaining ISO 9001 quality certification in 2008, 
the customer service hotline is further challenging the 
ISO 10002:2004 (Quality control – customer satisfaction 
– Guidelines for complaints handling in organizations) 
international standard certification, which will not only be 
unprecedented in Taiwan’s telecommunications industry, 
but also unprecedented worldwide.
We actively facilitate system integration and 
functional upgrades, winning the honors of “Best 
Customer Satisfaction Quality Control System” and “Best Knowledge Management” from the “Customer 
Relationship Excellence Awards 2010”.Customer Satisfaction Survey
To understand customer satisfaction levels for all 
aspects of service and recognition for our corporate image, brand values, and service qualities, we contract 
external market research firms annually to conduct 
customer satisfaction surveys for consumer, small & 
medium enterprises, and large enterprises. Questions 
and expectations that are of highest concern to them are 
explored for all aspects of our business.
Through the Customer Opinion Process System 
(CPS), we can convey customer feedback opinions instantly to product administration / operational unit 
personnel, as well as risk management departments 
and public relations departments for further handling. 
Furthermore, product subsidiaries will assist with holding 
monthly meetings with customer service units for review 
conferences.
The “first call resolution rate” performance indicator 
was added in January 2008,Starting from March 2009, 
new survey questions were added to confirm whether “only one phone call” was necessary, in order to 
more objectively understand customer concerns and 
recognition for our company’s service procedures, as 
well as comply with international standards. System 
constraints were also overcome in October 2009, where 
the system can execute automatic voice interviews after 
a customer has called to more understand customer’s 
opinions.Key Performance Indicators for Customer Service Hotlines
2008 2009 2010
Actual Value Actual Value Target Value Actual Value
Rate of Response 
within 20 Seconds87.1% 82.61% 81.5% 82.9%
Customer 
Satisfaction4.71 4.74 4.32 4.59
First Call 
Resolution 
Rate96.7% 86.17% 74.25% 79.6%
Key Performance Indicators for Telecommunications Service Industries
Criteria Indicator ValueActual Value of 
Chunghwa Telecom
Completed Connection 
Rate for Local Calls≥ 95.6% 99.99%
Interrupted Connection 
Rate for Mobile Phones≤ 3%2G 0.74%
3G 0.24%
Digital Communication 
Connection Service Packet 
Loss Rate≤ 3% 0.00698%anagementM
4.66Customer Satisfaction Survey
Note: each service satisfaction indicator is rated with 5-point scales.4.18
3.664.67
4.34
3.734.77
4.36
3.81
2008                                   2009                                 2010Large Enterprises Small & Medium Enterprises Customer28 29 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Customer ServiceLegal Compliance
The “Computer Processed Personal Information 
Protection Act” that was originally used to protect privacy 
rights were amended and renamed as the “Personal 
Information Protection Act” in April 2010. Major points in 
the amendments include: expansion of protected entities 
to include all personal information, while industry-specific 
restrictions were also removed.
Information security is one of the most significant 
priorities of consideration for customer service. Other 
than existing measures, such as maintaining mobile management, online rights controls, and prohibition on 
bringing in personal items into customer service seats 
we are reinvestigating establishment of comprehensive 
personal information protection and management 
systems to address new legislations and enforcement 
regulations and enhance education for employees.
The “Regulatory Regulations on Commercial Spam 
Electronic Mail” designates regulatory obligations to 
ISPs, and also includes formulations of public damage compensation mechanisms, which we will promptly 
communicate to relevant units.
Privacy Protection Measures
Chunghwa Telecom lists basic customer information 
as “top confidential” documents, while customer applications and all deposited and locked in dedicated 
containers. Administrative personnel are all required 
to sign the “Business Secret Protection Contract,” 
while their direct supervisors have to assume collateral 
responsibilities. If outsourced work involves business 
secrets, contracted agencies and their employees are 
also required to sign relevant confidentiality agreements. 
All subsidiaries report enforcement conditions of personal customer information protection annually, while 
the Headquarters and all subsidiaries also irregularly 
visit service centers to conduct evaluations, in order to 
enforce consumer privacy protection.Fraud Prevention
We have created the 165 reporting hotline since 
November 2007 to assist the government, which is operated by approximately 15 customer service 
personnel on a monthly basis in 2010 to assist police 
bureaus to undertake first line work during weekly 
peak periods. The FDOS was also created to provide 
information regarding fraud-like phone calls to police, 
which is operated by approximately 3 customer service 
personnel on a monthly basis to assist police units with 
instant termination of fraudulent calls.
Reduction of Negative Impacts
Eliminating possible negative impacts from 
telecommunications services is necessary for our 
services.
●Spam Mail: customers can use free webmail services 
when using HiNet mailboxes, which allows for direct deletion of spam-like email after a simple configuration 
decision.
●Pornographic information: provision of mandatory 
insulation for K12 mailboxes, HiNet pornography gatekeepers, and mobile online pornography guards to keep children and teenagers away from websites that are 
psychologically harmful.
●Controls over usage time: the programs of “HiNet 
online time management service” and “carefree 3G conversations” for cell phones allow parents to effectively 
control usage conditions for their children.
●Electromagnetic waves: our established bases and 
marketed cell phones are all compatible with regulatory standards of regulatory agencies. Currently, there is no clear scientific evidence to indicate health impacts 
from electromagnetic waves. We continue to conduct 
two-stage communication: during normal operation, we 
engage in base refinement and awareness promotion, 
and during disputes, we request impartial third parties to 
conduct tests.Privacy Protection and Information Security
We have established comprehensive protection and management systems for individual customer 
information toprotectcustomers’ privacies andrights.Wehaveestablished the“FraudDisruption
Operation System” (FDOS), whichworkswithpoliceunitstopreventfraud.Also,wecontinue to
monitor formulation of regulatory obligations of Internet Service Providers (ISP) in the drafting process of the “Regulatory Regulations on Commercial Spam Electronic Mail.”ddressA28 29 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Customer ServiceAction Plan to Address Climate Change
Taiwan is located in areas highly susceptible to 
natural disasters, which are very likely to damage all 
communication network facilities after accounting for 
climate abnormalities due to climate change.
In November 2010, we have completed the 
“Response for Climate Change – Chunghwa Telecom’s 
Strategic Actions for Environmental Protection, Energy 
Conservation, and Carbon Reduction.” Execution 
priorities or improvement plans were formulated to the 
overall project, current execution status, short term and long term action plans, etc., to enhance disaster 
resistance capabilities and ensure proper communication 
and overall communication network security.
Communication System Innovation
The “Hundred Responses for One Call” system 
originally developed by us is already widely used by 
firefighting units. We have further combined it with 
geographical information systems and electronic phone 
book systems into the “Disaster Emergency Contingent 
Information Communication System,” which can sent 
voice mail or text messages for predetermined local 
phones or mobile phones, as well as search for phone 
numbers in designated areas and deliver broadcast 
information. Also, the newly create “Low Frequently Wireless Time-Frequency Broadcast System” has 
characteristics of high speed, cost effectiveness, outage 
resistance, non-infringement on public communication 
system resources, and pan-Taiwan system coverage, 
which is appropriate for weather warnings, landslide 
warnings, and other disaster emergency contingent 
communication.Isolation-Free Communication
To prevent disaster occurrence and exacerbation, 
we absorbed past disaster rescue experiences and 
enhanced multiple intermediate transmissions routing 
for remote areas, backup wireless routing, additional 
capacities of backup electricity, system backups for 
international undersea cables, and other measures. 
Network and equipment allocation and emergency repair 
exercises are also held annually to increase disaster 
prevention.
When any system base’s electric routing or 
electricity is interrupted, or when facilities malfunction, bases for other system can still maintain operation. When 
natural disasters cause interrupted communication, small 
microwave or satellite or portable bases can provide 
external communication according to the environment of 
disaster areas.
In October 2010, Typhoon Megi caused severe 
flooding in the Su-ao area and interruption in the Su-
Hua Highway. We immediately dispatched 4 heavy all-terrain satellite vehicles and 2 portable satellite facilities 
to engage in emergency repairs for the base at Su-
Hua Highway, and provide instantaneous disaster area 
communication service.
At the same time, improvement plans were 
formulated for major transportation routes with single 
entrances and exits, which not only ensures multiple 
coverage with signal strength above “3 bars” along the 
routes, but also enhances communication along the routes to ensure disaster resistance, which is also the 
best demonstration of corporate social responsibility.
We have examined and improved backbone 
transmission networks and backup systems for outer 
island regions to enhance network reliability. Also, 
system tests, backup exercises, and relevant facilitate 
maintenance training are conducted regularly to enhance 
the technical capabilities of maintenance personnel and 
ensure network service quality.Responsible Communication
Because of abnormal climate caused by climate changes, such as typhoons and intense rain, all of 
which affect telecommunications facilities, they are liable to interrupt communication of customers during disasters and severely compromise disaster rescue progress. In order to resolve operational 
difficulties fromclimatechange adjustments encountered byallbusiness locations, wehave
made proper disaster contingency preparations during normal operation, which allows for rapid 
establishment of emergency contingent response team to engage in emergency repairs and ensure proper communication within disaster areas.ddressA30 31 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Customer ServiceBroadband Network Establishment
Connecting online anywhere and anytime had become a necessity and trend for the mobile 
lifestyles of modern people. To satisfy rising bandwidth demands from online and corporate clients, wecontinue toexpandexisting undersea cablecapacities andparticipate inconstruction ofnew
undersea cablesystems toactivelyconstruct opticalfiber.Bythethirdquarterof2012,opticalfiber
network infrastructure volumeisexpected toexceedthatofADSL.Also,wecontinue toexpand
foundational networks for wireless internet hotspots to create more wireless internet hotspots, relieve mobile data workload, and improve service quality.
Optical Fiber Network Construction
Broadband networks are the foundation of digital 
transmission. We are also actively building optical 
fiber. By the third quarter of 2012, optical fiber network 
infrastructure volume is expected to exceed that of 
ADSL, to account for government plans to enable the 
objectives of allowing 80% of homes to connect to 
100Mbps broadband networks by 2015 and creating 21 
million mobile broadband internet users. Not only are 
we working diligently to achieve stage-based targets 
set out by the government, we are further expecting to achieve the objective of enabling nearly 100% of homes 
and customers can connect to higher speed optical fiber 
networks and mobile broadband networks by 2020, in 
order to provide the people with more prevalent, faster, 
and more convenient all-encompassing digital broadband 
foundational infrastructure.
We pledge to invest NT$ 30 billion every year in the 
future, which will exceed NT$ 300 billion of investments 
in 10 years, which will rapidly enhance the speed of broadband internet, bringing Taiwan’s transmission 
speed from 50 Mbps and 100 Mbps into Gbps, achieving 
tenfold of growth.Higher Speed at the Same Price
Under the precondition of not increasing costs for 
users, we have introduced initiatives to implement higher 
speed at the same price, in order to address public 
concerns over bandwidth and price issues. Threshold 
bandwidth for ADSL can be upgraded from 256K/64K 
to 512K/64K for free, while 1M/64K can be upgraded to 
2M/128K for free, and the primary clientele of 2M/256K 
can be upgraded to 3M/384K for free. Close to 200 users 
are estimated to have benefited from this initiative.
Expansion of Wireless Hotspots
With the rapid growth of smart phone and flat 
screen computer users, mobile broadband transmission had been multiplying in the past two years. In 2010, 
we have purchased over 1,100 3.5G bases, which can 
achieve a maximum transmission rate of 42 Mbps, 
effectively expanding mobile broadband network 
capacities, transmission speeds, and coverage rates.
With our 3G users numbering above 5.26 million, 
wireless hotspots will become a future development 
strategy. Between 2010 and 2011, we plan to invest NT$ 3 billion to expand foundational networks for wireless 
internet hotspots and create 30,000 wireless internet 
hotspots to alleviate mobile internet demands.
Optical Fiber Construction Plan
Note: (1)  Coverage rate (>50Mbps) is according to the number of households (7.8 mn) as announced by the Ministry of the Interior in December 2009
          (2) Wired = fixed networks + internet and data●FTTH
●FTTN/FTTB
●ADSL
   Coverage(>50Mbps)Thousands of Ports Coverage Rate
2009              2010              2011              2012              2013              2014              201512,000
10,000
8,0006,0004,0002,000
090%
80%
70%
60%
50%40%
30%
20%
10%
0
5065 4608 4300 4000 3500 300025002791 3319 3900 4500 5000 5300 550026 5280 610 11001550200059.7%68.8% 70% 73%76%78%80%esponseR30 31 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Customer ServiceDigital Amazon
The spotlight of future eras will be dominated by the 
digital media and cultural innovation industries. We will 
commit to building a competent platform and creating 
an environment like the fertile soils of the Amazonian 
rainforests, allowing prosperous development of Taiwan’s 
soft power. Currently, we have established an open 
digital media development platform, providing service 
interfaces such as uploading, transactions, account 
management, and copyright management, in order to 
facilitate cultural innovation and digital media enterprises to upload and sell their work and services through the 
platform.
Also, we promote innovative telecommunications 
services by holding the annual “Innovative  
Telecommunications Application Competition” to develop 
trends, discover and foster software development 
talent from universities, and promote the prosperous 
development of the digital media industry. We hope 
to attract participation from more innovative talents to expand the scope of the competition, bringing it from 
Taiwan across the Taiwan Strait, and ultimately shape the 
Innovative Telecommunications Application Competition 
into the “Oscar Awards of Telecommunications” for 
cultural innovation and digital media, which can also turn 
Taiwan into a global innovation center.Development of Tourism ICT 
Service
Tourists to Taiwan exceeded 5 million for the first 
time in 2010, motivating Taiwan’s relevant industries 
to invest in research, development, and innovation to 
improve tourism quality. Growth is particularly high in 
terms of attracting Chinese tourists.
Under frequent cross-Strait exchange, if Taiwan’s 
advantages, such as foundational infrastructure, 
innovation, research, development, technical aptitude, 
and educational and training capabilities can be 
combined with China’s overall economic stability and market scope, win-win solutions can be formed.
Within the ICT industries, we will continue to 
strengthen the fusion of cultural innovation, energy and 
carbon conservation, medicine, education, training, and 
tourism industries to produce more inspiring services.In echoing the government’s promotion of digital media industries, we are actively integrating 
resources from contents, platforms, and end facilities to combine cultural innovation with technology, sothatreading isnolongerconfined totimeandlocation, andthustakingTaiwan’s 
digital cultural innovation industry into new heights. We are also comprehensively development industry frameworks with mechanisms to support innovation and business, turning Taiwan into a hub of digital contents design, production, and publication, and enhancing the competitiveness of the digital media industry and the nation itself.Open Cultural Innovation Platform
Chunghwa Telecom’s Show Taiwan worked with Dajia Mazu’s Pilgrimage 
in 2010, and people could log online to instantaneously see the current location of Dajia Mazu’s carriageargetT32 33 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Labor Practice
Caring for Employee Needs
Human Resources Management
Performance Evaluation
Talent Attraction and RetentionJoy at Work, Happiness at HomeOccupational Health and Safety
Fulfillment of Environmental Education
● TheTaichung campus andKaohsiung campus ofChunghwa Telecom Training 
Institute bothwinning thegoldmedalfromthe“2010TaiwanTrainQuali System
(TTQS)Evaluation” eventheldbytheExecutive Yuan’sCouncilofLaborAffairs,and
also selected as benchmark units.
● Reception oftheoutstanding unitawardforpromoting laborsafetyandhygiene from
theExecutive Yuan’sCouncilofLabor Affairsin2009
● ReceptionoftheTaipeiCityGovernment’slaborsafetyaward
● Reception ofthehealthinitiative medal,healthpromotion medal,andanti-smoking 
prevention medal from the autonomous healthy workplace certification program of theBureauofHealthPromotion,DepartmentofHealth,Executive Yuan
AwardstrategyS
esponseRddressA
argetTanagementM
Labor Practice32 33 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Labor PracticeYear 2008 2009 2010
Total 
Employees24,551 24,668 24,474
Average Age 47.08 47.66 48.21
Average Years 
of Service22.80 23.31 23.81
Employee Overview
In 2010, Chunghwa Telecom employed a total 
of 24,474 persons, of which 566 employees left their 
positions and 398 new employees were hired, resulting 
in an employee turnover rate of 2.31%. There were 
6,927 female employees, accounting for 28.30% of all 
employees. The number of female employees remained 
nearly constant over the last three years, but the number 
of female managers rose gradually, accounting for 
23.04% of all managers in 2010.
In accordance with the Gender Equality in 
Employment Act, we have outlined the “Prevention and Complaint Regulations for Sexual Harassment.” In 2010, 
we did not receive any relevant complaints.
According to Article 38 of the People with Disabilities 
Rights Protection Act, Chunghwa Telecom shall employ 
228 persons with disabilities. 721 such employees were 
actually hired, 3.16 times more than legally required.
In 2010, we employed 49 aboriginal employees, while 
properly respecting their unique cultural traditions.Labor-Employer Harmony
Employees not only enjoy rights to appeal, 
complaint, and union participation, the collective 
agreement stipulates that labor-employer representatives 
from the headquarters and all branches and subsidiaries 
shall hold at least one labor-employer meeting once 
every 3 months, with additional provisional labor-
employer meetings if necessary. Labor representatives 
may be invited to staff appraisal meetings and sit in 
evaluation meetings, business reports, etc. also, the 
Board of Directors contains one seat for Labor Director. In 2010, union participation among employees reached 
99.80%.
Chunghwa Telecom’s Chairman and President 
irregularly holds meetings or telephone conversations 
with the union secretary general, supervisor, and other 
union representatives to ensure that there are proper 
labor-employer communication channels. A total of 6 
national labor-employer meetings and 1 provisional 
meeting were held in 2010, reaching consensus on many relevant issues. Also, 18 coordination meetings related 
to labor conditions further increasing labor-employer 
harmony.Caring for Employee Needs
We believe that employees are the company’s most important assets and cooperative partners. 
Therefore, we respect every employee, with no differentiation over gender, age, and race. Wages are also paid on the principle of commensurate wages for commensurate work. We are committed 
to improving the work environment, focusing on employee rights, respecting employee opinions, 
attending to employee needs, and continuing enhancements over communication channels and dialogue with employees.
Average Age and Years of Service of Employees Percentage of Female Employees and Female Managers
Female Employees (%)           Female Managers (%) 
2008                     2009                       201022.11                     22.48                      23.0428.18                    28.17                        28.3trategyS34 35 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Labor PracticeNew Training Development  
System Oriented for Professional Skills
We have established various professional skill 
training systems for various technical and commercial 
professions to gradually implement training development 
oriented towards professional capabilities. We hope that 
capabilities needed for work can be closely combined 
with training to increase work efficiency, and enable new 
replacement manpower to develop sufficient job aptitude 
within short periods of time through this solid training. 
Also, to develop managerial capabilities for all levels 
of management, we are currently planning educational classes to develop managerial talent for managerial 
and staff positions. After relevant plans are completed, 
professional skill-oriented training development will 
become more consolidated.Employee Education, Training, 
and Higher Learning
We are committed to providing employees with 
an open and diverse learning environment. We have 
established the Telecom Training Institute and their 
Taichung and Kaohsiung campuses that are dedicated to 
employee education and training. The Telecom Training 
Institute holds annual professional aptitude training, 
which systematically focuses on the eight professions 
of core network technologies, connection network 
technologies, mobile communication technologies, 
value-added services, information technologies, business management, operational management, and 
human resources management. To develop high level 
managerial talent for the future, we hold “high level 
management preparation workshops”. All agencies 
contain personnel training teams to undertake the career 
planning and training development of their colleagues, as 
well as fulfilling colleague education and training through 
planning, execution, and evaluation mechanisms, 
in order to increase the professional aptitude of our colleagues and improve service attitude and overall work 
performance. In 2010, employee training totaled at 1.98 
million hours, while a total of NT$ 728.58 million was 
invested for the endeavor.Human Resources Management
To assist employees with their career development, we have established various professional skill 
trainingsystems toincrease workefficiency andhumanresource application. Ourinternaltraining
classes are very diverse, providing higher learning required for employees of different levels and 
fieldsofwork.Allagencies alsohavepersonnel trainingteamstofacilitate planning andexecution
of personnel training and undertake the career planning and training development of their 
colleagues.
2008 2009 2010
Total Training Budget (NT$) 659,309,528 661,362,885 728,577,757
Per Capita Training Budget (NT$) 26,855 26,819 29,769
Total Training Hours (Hours) 2,190,419 1,927,751 1,979,407
Per Capital Training Hours 
(Hours)89 78 81Employee Education and TraininganagementM34 35 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Labor PracticeIndustry-Academic Cooperation
We have formulated the “International Corporate 
Staff Training Plan” with focus on expanding overseas 
markets. Also, we have established the “Chunghwa 
Telecom Southeast Asia Scholarship” to develop 
competent overseas telecommunications personnel, 
which annually provides scholarships to competent 
Southeast Asian and foreign students in National Chiao 
Tung University. 
The Telecom Training Institute initiated the 
“Advanced Telecommunications Network Technologies” program with National Taiwan University, which can 
train 50 of our colleagues with each class, which lasts 4 
terms and achieves distinguished results in setting the 
foundation for telecommunications network theories.
We also encourage employees to engage in 
lifelong learning, providing a maximum of NT$ 30,000 in 
learning bursaries for each term. In 2010, a total of 1,135 
employees applied for learning bursaries; while a total of 
NT$ 17.65 million was invested.Enhancing Performance  
Evaluation Procedures
We have concrete operational regulations and 
operational procedures for performance reviews of 
employees at all levels in the company to achieve 
the objectives of impartial evaluation, rewarding 
competence, and remedying shortcomings. To ensure 
that the company’s CSR policies can combine properly 
with business strategies, we further incorporate feedback 
to stakeholder opinions, achievement of environmental 
targets, raising the company’s charitable image, etc., into 
our considerations of performance reviews for high level managerial personnel.
We have introduced the newly “Employee 
Performance Evaluation Regulations” and the “Essentials 
of Evaluation Interviews.” Evaluation managers 
will directly notify employees of work performances 
that require enhancement or improvement, and will 
provide necessary assistance and guidance. Through 
improvements in management procedures, employees 
of subpar performance can instantly and appropriately gain opportunities for improvement through managerial 
assistance and advice, which also fulfills the true function 
of performance reviews.
Employee Satisfaction Survey
To uproud to be employees of Chunghwa Telecom.
To understand the status of employment satisfaction 
for Chunghwa Telecom, we have initiated continuous 
employee satisfaction surveys since 2010, which focuses 
on measuring employee satisfaction for their workplaces, 
benefits, and income, and thus achieve a composite 
understanding of employee satisfaction, impressions, and 
expectations from employees of different professional 
characteristics. According to the survey of 2010, 82% of 
employees are satisfied to work for Chunghwa Telecom. Also, 82.4% of employees feel that they are proud to be 
employees of Chunghwa Telecom.
Successful completion of the first telecommunications elite development 
program, conducted in partnership between Chunghwa Telecom and National Taiwan UniversityPerformance Evaluation
To attract talented personnel and inspire morale, we have formulated the “Employee Performance 
Evaluation Regulations” to facilitate year-end evaluation of employees, which act as references of promotions, salaryraises(reductions), awards, discipline, training, workadjustments, andissuing
of incentives and bonuses for our colleagues.anagementM36 37 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Labor PracticeBalancing Work and Family
To assist employees with balancing their careers 
and families, we took leadership in implementing unpaid 
childcare leaves starting from July 2006. To care for 
female employees, they are paid childcare leave benefits 
equal to half of their insured salaries during their leave, 
which they can receive for up to 2 years. After employees 
receive their maximum number of monthly employment 
insurance payments from the government, female 
employees can then begin receiving maternity leave 
benefits equal to half of their insured salaries. Family leaves, paternity leaves, menstrual leaves, nursing 
rooms, etc, are also provided. In 2010, a total of 132 
persons applied for childcare leave, while 54 persons 
applied for unpaid childcare leaves, and 53 persons 
applied for childcare benefits.Employee Benefit Programs
We issue welfare payments according to the 
Employees’ Welfare Funds Act, and we have established 
the Employee Welfare Committee to facilitate benefit 
measures such as employee marriage, childbearing, 
child education, retirement, bereavement, spousal 
bereavement support, group insurance, recovery, 
celebration activities, etc.
In terms of preventative employee health care, we 
provide health care exceeding legislative requirements, 
allowing employees one free health inspection every year. In 2010, inspection fees are increased by 25% to 
enhance inspection priorities and increase inspection 
accuracy. In terms of employee health promotion, we 
have established health clubs that provide various 
exercise and leisure facilities, such as basketball courts, 
badminton courts, tennis courts, ping pong tables, 
swimming pools, treadmills, etc. Leisure clubs have 
been established, which covers areas such as dance, 
singing, yoga, classical Chinese music, karate, etc. In 2010, we held a total of 208 health seminars, 25 sport 
competitions, and 99 field trips. Also, we continue to 
enforce the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), which 
provides one-on-one professional counseling service, 
which covers assistance with employees in resolving 
psychological, legal, financial, medical inquiries, as well 
as questions on work and lifestyle services. In 2010, a 
total of 360 persons received such services.
In terms of healthy lifestyles for employees, a 
total of 28 telecommunications clubs were established for employees in 2010, which encourages employee 
vacations and provides leisure and accommodation. 
Every employee is also provided with NT$ 8,000 in 
travel subsidies. Relevant employee health care-related 
expenditures account for approximately 0.14% of annual 
revenues.Talent Attraction and Retention
We focus heavily on competent personnel. To assist them with balancing career development 
and family life, we took initiative in implementing unpaid childcare leave systems, providing health andpreventative careexceeding legislative requirements. In2010,relevantemployee health
careexpenditures accountfor0.14%ofannualrevenues. Also,toimprove employee wellbeing,
employeemutualfundsystemsareestablishedtoenablecorporateprofitsharingforemployees.
Number of Employee Applications for Childcare Leave Benefits
Note:  because both men and women are qualified to apply for unpaid 
childcare leave, and only women are qualified to apply for maternity 
benefits, the former category has more applications.Childbearing Leave ApplicationsUnpaid Childcare Leave ApplicationsMaternity Benefit Applications125155
132
5255544953 532008　　2009　　2010ddressA36 37 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Labor PracticeJoy at Work, Happiness at Home
Onlyhappyemployeescandeliverheartfeltservicetocustomers.In2010,weheldgroupmarriages 
toencourage employees startupfamiliesandinitiateanewphaseintheirlives.Furthermore, our
comprehensive retirement benefits are the greatest foundation and support for our employees’ 
families.
Retirement Benefits
To enhance employee well being, enhance 
employee loyalty for the company, and enable corporate 
profit sharing so as to ensure stability of employee 
lifestyle after retirement or leaving their jobs, employee mutual funds are established, which awards bonuses 
based on the amount of monthly salaries of employees 
and in accordance with the bonus ratio agreed upon by 
the company and the Employee Shareholder Committee.
Retirements are processed in accordance with 
the Employee Retirement Pension and Separation 
Guidelines, the Labor Standards Act and the Labor 
Pension Act. The maximum pension contribution (15%) 
is paid into employees’ pension funds each month.
In 2010, Chunghwa Telecom donated $4.5 Million to 
the CHT Retirement Association to improve the care of retired Employee. A dedicated website (http://www.chtr.
org.tw/) has also been established to promote healthcare 
and lifelong learning among retirees. 
2008 2009 2010
Number of Employee Health 
Inspections24,018 23,924 23,782
Percentage of Employees 
Receiving Health Inspections98.09 98.03 98.35
Total Expenditures in Employee 
Health Inspections (NT$)39,851,601 67,978,876 67,874,199Employee Health Inspections
30 newlywed couples complete their vows under the witness of Chairman 
Lu during Chunghwa Telecom’s group marriage ceremony
ddressA38 39 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Labor PracticeOccupational Health and Safety 
Management Systems and Associated Certifications
We proactively provide workplace-related health 
and safety facilities and programs to establish safe, 
clean and comfortable work environments, which safety 
and health performance are also inspected regularly to 
ensure the effectiveness of such management. We have 
established a health and safety management system 
based on the PLAN-DO-CHECK-ACT framework. By the 
end of 2010, a total of 33 out of 34 branches have been 
certificated under the Occupational Health and Safety 
Assessment Series 18001, while 23 branches have passed the TOSHMS management system certification 
from the Council of Labor Affairs. Therefore, despite 
growing operational growth across all of our services, 
our safety and health performance is still distinguished. 
In 2010, occupational injuries rates per thousands of 
persons was far lower than the industry average.
 Occupational Injuries Statistics
We have completed various hazard identification 
and risk assessments for the telecommunications 
industry, adopting control measures such as work 
permits for high risk work such as working at heights, 
confined space, manhole and tunnel excavations, hot 
work, live power lines, crane lifts, etc, to lower the risks 
from such work. In 2010, the “Safety Enforcement 
Regulations for On-Site Operational Personnel” was 
drafted, and then implemented in March 2011, focusing 
on high risk work such as working at heights, confined space, manhole and tunnel excavations, hot work, live 
power lines, crane lifts, etc. Other than enhancing onsite 
monitoring and management, we also incorporate our 
information and telecommunications professionalism 
to take 3G cell phone photographs of on-site safety 
facilities and personal protective equipments prior to 
work commencement, by sending those photos took on-
site back to designated systems for real-time monitoring, 
so that we can enhance risk control over high risk work and effectively prevent incidents of occupational hazards.Occupational Health and Safety
Providing healthy and safe occupational environments is our non-negotiable obligation to our 
employees. We not only continue in improving various occupational health and safety management systemsandmaintainingcertificationforsuchsystems,butwehavealsocompletedvarioushazard 
identifications and risk assessments for the telecommunications industry, especially for work-related high risk operations, employed control measures such as work permits, in order to enhance riskcontrolforhighriskworkandeffectivelypreventincidencesofoccupationalInjuries.
Occupational Injuries Statistics
2008 2009 2010
Frequency of disability 0.89 0.56 0.83
Severity of disability 282 136 514
Occupational Injuries Rate per 
1,000 Workers1.06 1.09 1.26
Occupational Injuries Rate per 
1,000 Workers (Industry-Wide)2.09 1.92 1.96Year
Note:
Frequency of Disability = Times of disability *106/Total person-work hours
Severity of Disability = Total workday lost*106 / Total person-work hours
Occupational Injuries Rate per 1,000 Workers = ratio of the annual average number of occupationalinjuries per 1,000 workers.Source: Council of Labor Affairs Web site.esponseR
Occupational
Injuries Indicator38 39 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Labor PracticeFusion between Environmental 
Education and Business Activities
Article 19 of “Environmental Education Act” : 
“Government agencies, state-run enterprises and 
institutions… all employees… shall participate over four 
hours of environmental education,” which appropriately 
echoes Article 15 of “Corporate Social Responsibility 
Best Practice Principles for TWSE / GTSM Listed 
Companies”: “Listed Companies should establish 
a dedicated unit or assign dedicated personnel for 
environment management to maintain the environment 
management system and should hold environment education courses for their managerial officers and other 
employees on a periodic basis.” To account for these 
obligations, we will begin implementing the following in 
the future:
1. 4-hour environmental classes for all employees every 
year.
2. Fusion between environmental education classes and 
major corporate activities.Corporate Volunteer Exchange
Our “CSR Committee” includes the “Environmental 
Sustainability Group” and “Corporate Volunteerism Group,” enabling our colleagues from business locations 
across Taiwan to engage in environmental education, 
already accumulating considerable results and 
experience.
In 2010, we visited the environmental protection 
education area of Tsuchi Cultural Education Center’s 
Guandu campus with Chairman Lu in the lead, jointly 
engaging in environmental protection practicums, as well as participating in spirituality seminars and all-day 
physical and spiritual environmental protection classes.
Also, Chunghwa Telecom’s corporate volunteers 
participated in the Taiwan Energy Conservation Patrol 
initiated by Epson Technology and other corporations, 
which focuses on increasing energy efficiency within 
corporate operations and production processes, and 
thus achieving the objectives of carbon reduction and 
mitigating global warming. Hopefully, through on-site inspections and provision of energy conservation advice 
for inspected units, we can achieve maximum win-win 
benefits for environmental protection and corporate 
profits.TheEnvironmental Education ActaspassedbytheLegislative YuaninMay2010,containing a
totalof26articlesaimedatimparting publiceducation processes thatimprove people’s knowledge,
capabilities, attitudes, and value systems over environmental protection, and encourage people to 
focus on the environment, take action, and thus achieve sustainable development.Fulfillment of Environmental Education
Our corporate volunteers join the “Taiwan Energy Conservation Patrol,” 
assisting more corporations in achieving energy and carbon reduction
Chairman Lu leads his colleagues in the visit to Tsuchi’s recycling work, hoping to encourage environmental protection through the power of corporate volunteersargetT40 41 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Environmental Impact
Adaptation to Climate Change
Environmental Management System
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets
Increasing Eco-efficiencyGreen ICTBlueprint for Environmental Sustainability
● Themobilecommunications subsidiary isthefirstdomestic mobilecommunications company to
passtheISO14001environmentalmanagementsystemcertification
● Outstanding Enterprises andOrganizations inGreenProcurement AwardbytheEnviron¬mental
Protection Administration,Taiwan
● “Distinguished Enterprise Award”fromthe2010annualindustrial wasteandrenewable resource 
cleanup and resource reduction, recycling, and reuse event held by the Environmental Protection 
Administration
● Corporate awardfromthe2010greenconsumer competition heldbytheEnvironmental Protection
Administration
● “Outstanding AwardfromtheCommunications andBroadcast Group”fromthewasteresource 
managementperformancenominationsheldbytheEnvironmentalProtection Administration
● Firstplaceinthecleanhomescategory fromthe2010environmental awardsoftheEnvironmental
Protection Administration
● Consecutive winofthe2010awardforoutstanding greenprocurement benchmark corporation by
the Taipei City government
●Winningthe2010goldawardforenergyconservationbytheTaipeiCitygovernment
AwardstrategyS
esponseRddressA
argetTanagementM
Environmental Impact40 41 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Environmental Impact
Climate Change Adaptation Strategy
We regard climate change Adaptation as an 
important issue in future continuations of impact 
reductions for provisions of telecommunication services. 
Currently, climate change phenomena in Taiwan 
consist primarily of excessive regional concentration 
of rain. Risks of climate change against us are 
expected to include primarily direct dangers against 
telecommunications machine rooms and facilities during 
our operation. We need to allocate budgets and execute 
disaster prevention plans and actions.
Risk Management Procedures
We have established the Environmental  
Sustainability Group under the CSR Committee to 
undertake compilation of the entire group’s response 
measures and improvement results for climate change, 
formulation of short, medium, and long term targets, 
and incorporation of energy and carbon reduction and 
environmental issues into business plans, all of which 
are reported by the group’s vice presidents to the Board 
of Directors. The Board of Directors is responsible for 
deciding management strategies / examination of results related to climate change. High management levels 
execute the strategies / interdepartmental communication 
and coordination determined by the Board of Directors. 
Management units within the company execute and 
supervise the action plans of their designated units, as 
well as compiling execution results of their activities. 
Meanwhile, branch agencies execute daily management 
activities and engage in self assessments.Working with Policymakers
We actively participate in public hearings regarding 
climate change legislations with relevant government units (Environmental Protection Administration of the 
Executive Yuan, Bureau of Energy of the Ministry 
of Economic Affairs), as well as the post-COP15 
Nama action plan and international legislative review 
conferences. We also participate in information seminars 
held by Taiwan’s Environmental Protection Administration 
regarding greenhouse gas reduction policies, carbon 
trading, and energy and carbon reduction action plans.
Participation in International  
Organizations and Focusing on the Cancun Conference
We have been a member of the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), which is 
led by the CEOs of over 200 international corporations, 
focusing on commercial and sustainable development 
issues. Taiwanese members include Acer, CPC 
Corporation, and Chunghwa Telecom. Over the years, 
we have analyzed the newest international sustainability 
issues and trends through information sharing and 
frequent interaction in WBCSD. From November 29, 
2010, to December 10, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change’s (UNFCCC) 16th 
Conference of the Parties (COP16) was held in Cancun, 
Mexico. We have also gained an in-depth understanding 
of international carbon reduction trends after the Kyoto 
Protocol from the depth of WBCSD’s involvement in this 
conference.Adaptation to Climate Change
We promise to use our core capabilities as our foundation as we commit to addressing global 
climatechangeissues,achieve energyandcarbonreduction benefits, andenableconsumers to
enjoylowcarbontelecommunicationsservices.trategyS42 43 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Environmental ImpactEnvironmental Management System
Aswecontinue tostrivefor“reduced environmental impacts” creating environmental management
systems is an important element. We have taken leadership in the industry in conducting the 
firstgreenhouse gasauditin2008.Underappropriate control, totalgreenhouse gasemissions 
in2010arefarlowerthanemissions in2009and2008,fulfilling ourpromise togreatlyreduce
totalgreenhouse gasemissions. Wecontinue toactively striveforISO14001 environmental 
management systemcertifications. Certifications forallagencies areexpected tobecomplete by
2012.
Internal Corporate Enforcement Procedures
The Environmental Sustainability Group 
formulated internal corporate environmental codes 
of conduct and pamphlets, as well as green energy 
standards (greenhouse gas reduction targets). We 
have implemented the “Employee Innovation Proposal 
Regulations,” which stipulates financial rewards for 
employees who provide improvement plans and 
innovative ideas for climate change that are adopted by 
the company.
To enable convenient storage, retrieval, and 
control of environmental performance information for all units in the company, we have established the group 
environmental database – “Environmental Sustainable 
Development Management System” (EARTH). The 
systematic information and analytical aspects provide 
sufficient foundations for all business units to formulate 
quantifiable environmental improvement targets 
and effectively increase the efficiency of executing 
environmental management operations. This system completely displays audits on internal electricity usage, 
water usage management, water resource management, 
lighting facility management, resource recycling, 
vegetation plantation, etc, for all agencies, demonstrating 
more efficient management and environmental results. 
Nationwide promotional tours are also held to facilitate education and training in all business units with focus on system functions and usage methods, so that all 
employees can understand system application methods.
ISO14001 Environmental Management 
System Certification
In order to ensure environmental sustainability 
in 2010, we continued our efforts to secure the 
ISO14001 environmental management system 
certification. Certifications for all agencies are expected 
to be complete by 2012. The mobile communications 
subsidiary opted for the ISO-500001 energy 
management system standard in 2011, which greatly 
improves environmental management.
Login page of the “Environmental Sustainable Development Management 
System”Year Execution Unit
2008 Southern Taiwan Business Group
2009 Mobile Business Group
2010Northern Taiwan Business Group / 
Data Communications Business Group
2011International Business Group / 
Telecom Laboratories
2012Telecom Training Institute /
 Enterprise Business GroupISO14001 Certification Sequence for Chunghwa Telecom’s UnitsanagementM42 43 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Environmental ImpactExecution of Annual Greenhouse Gas 
Audits
In 2008, we took leadership in the industry and 
conducted the first greenhouse gas (GHG) audit, which 
is verified by SGS Taiwan as the third party. The GHG 
Protocol developed by the World Resource Institute 
(WRI) and WBCSD is also used as the audit tool for 
data calculations and creation of GHG emission records, 
which will act as the foundation for future efforts for GHG 
reduction and carbon management.Reductions in GHG Emissions
Currently, our audit covers Scope 1 and Scope 2. 
Results indicate that externally procured electricity is our 
most significant source of GHG emission. Therefore, we 
have collectively initiated various electricity conservation 
actions. Scope 3 is currently not incorporated into audit 
coverage, and only fixed unquantifiable analyses can 
be done. In the future, we will gradually investigate the 
effects of GHG emissions from employee travels.
In 2010, our total GHG emissions is 905,095.14 
t-CO 2e, far lower than emissions in 2008 and 2009. 
Under appropriate controls, we achieved great 
reductions in total GHG emissions. In the future, we 
will still capitalize on electricity usage management and 
electricity usage reduction as our main axis to implement 
effective and concrete actions and fulfill our promises.
Scope Greenhouse Emission SourceEmission Volume
2008 2009 2010
Scope11.  Gasoline and diesel use by business and 
engineering vehicles
2. Kitchen and washroom facilities
3. Dispersion from wastewater clarifiers4. Dispersion from fire extinguishers and refrigerants31,721.54 39,087.09 30,710.73
Scope2Externally procured electricity for office towers, telecommunications mechanical rooms, and optical fiber facilities914,298.91 932,562.44 874,384.41
Total emissions 946,020.45 971,649.53 905,095.14Greenhouse Gas Emission Analysis of Chunghwa Telecom (Verified)
Note 1: “Verified” refers to emission volume data verified by impartial third party verification.Note 2: Emissions is calculated in CO
2 equivalents, in tons (t-CO 2e).
Note 3:  Organizations covered by GHG emissions records for Scope 1 and 2 include those who borders cover Chunghwa Telecom Headquarters, its 6 
subsidiaries (Northern Taiwan Business Group, Enterprise Business Group, Mobile Business Group, Southern Taiwan Business Group, International 
Business Group, and Data Communications Business Group) Telecom Laboratories, and Telecom Training Institute. All emission sources covered within such borders are 100% owned and controlled by our company.Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets
In2008,wetookleadership intheindustry andconducted greenhouse gasaudits,becoming the
firsttelecommunications company inTaiwantoreceivetheISO14064-1 confirmation letter.In
2009,webecame thefirsttelecommunications company toformulate energyandcarbonreduction
targets.In2010,wereached ourtargetsaheadofschedule, returning greenhouse gasemission 
in2012to2007levels.Inthefuture,wewillalsoaccountforthegovernment’s carbonreduction 
targetsandreturnto2005levelsby2020.anagementM44 45 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Environmental Impact2008        2009       2010     2011     2012       201325000
200001500010000
5000
04331872014026164621897621538
2007      2008       2009   2010    2011　  2012     201398
96
94
92
90
88
8693.0494.6097.11
90.51 90.47 90.38 90.11
Cumulative Electricity Usage Savings
 (in units of 10 MWh)Total Carbon Emissions (in 10,000 Tons)YearTargets of Chunghwa Telecom’s Energy Conservation Plan
Targets of Chunghwa Telecom’s Carbon Reduction Plan
YearElectricity Usage Management Targets
Energy and carbon reduction plans for information 
and communications mechanical rooms and office 
buildings will be executed in stages, which is expected 
to reduce electricity usage by 168 GWh by 2012, as 
compared to 2007 (excluding business growth).Carbon Management Targets
GHG emissions in 2012 have returned to 2007 
levels (achieved ahead of schedule in 2010. Long term carbon emission reduction targets will account for 
the government’s carbon reduction targets, which will 
return emissions to 2005 levels by 2020.
Target          Target            Target 
Target         Target         Target 44 45 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Environmental ImpactOverview of Environmental Impacts
Input Output
Electricity Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Explanation 1:  electricity includes electricity usage from introduction of next generation 
telecommunications facilities
Explanation 2: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Electricity usageExplanation: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / GHG emissions volume■GWh   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio ■t-CO 2e   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio
■t   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio■m3   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio
■m3   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio
■GJ   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio
■1,000m 3   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio2010 2010 2008 2008 2009 20091453.6
946,020.45
128.5
0.191393.72971,649.53
1371
905,095.14132
0.201470.22
Gasoline
Explanation: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Gasoline usage2010 2008 20096607.8
27.856422.3
4466.3 28.6645.3
Diesel
Explanation: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Diesel usage2010 2008 2009748
246.04716.9
467256.72433.58
Energy Usage (Electricity + Petroleum Fuels)
Explanation 1: Total energy consumption (GJ) = total electrical energy usage (GJ) + total petroleum energy usage (GJ).
Explanation 2: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Total energy consumption (GJ)2010 2008 20095,068,123
0.0375,254,697
5,108,176
0.0350.039
Water Usage
Explanation: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Water usage2010 2008 20092,378
75.52,762.8
2,275
67.989Waste
Explanation:  Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Waste production volume2010 2008 20097,917
23.65,372 5,36934.337.7
Scrap Metal Recycling Volume
Explanation: batteries need to be used for 5 years or more and be in unusable 
condition before they can be disposed. Number of units recycled are related to infrastructure volumes of that year, and are not used as performance indicators■Batteries (units)     ■General Wires (Tons)■Scrap Metal (Tons)■Sheathed Cables (Tons)
2010 2008 20093,0065,86713,022
3,219 3,2674,869
817
460623 875 8551,160
End User Equipment Recycling Volume
Explanation:  ATU-R is the abbreviation for ADSL Transceiver Unit, Remote Terminal End; 
VTU-R is the abbreviation for VDSL Unit Remote■ATU-R  ■VTU-R  ■MOD Mechanical Box
2010 2008 2009380,213695,999
511,960
57,735145,394250,638
129,084210,295
176,83146 47 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Environmental ImpactGroup Targets for Carbon Reduction
Out target is to reduce electricity usage and reduce 
petroleum fuel usage. The value behind such actions is 
reductions in operational electricity costs and reductions 
of group emissions of GHG. We plan to return to 2007 
emission levels of 930,439.94 t-CO 2e by 2012, which we 
have achieved in 2010, where group electricity usage is 22,000,000 kWh less than 2009, while group gasoline 
usage is 84,125 L less than 2009, and diesel usage is 
29,373 L less than 2009. Therefore, carbon emissions in 
2010 were reduced by 13,731 t-CO
2e.
In 2010, we have invested NT$ 20 million in energy 
conservation management for office towers. Meanwhile, energy conservation plans for telecommunications 
mechanical rooms include the following improvements: 
adoption of external air conditioning, high sensible 
heat air conditioning, increased mechanical room 
temperatures, use of frequency converters, and partial 
area lighting for mechanical rooms. NT$ 9.79 billion is 
expected to be invested from 2010 to 2014. In 2010, energy savings totaled at NT$ 57.20 million.Continuation of Environmental 
Protection and Energy Saving 
We are not satisfied with merely achieving reduction 
targets. We continue to enhance promotions of energy 
saving operations with further hopes of helping the 
overall environmental transformation of the industry.
● Development of environmental sustainability EARTH 
systems to engage is carbon disclosure, carbon audits, carbon management, carbon reductions, and other low 
carbon lifestyle objectives.
● Signing energy conservation plans with the Bureau of 
Energy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which calls 
for electricity savings of 5% in 3 years.
● Encourage the government and global trends to 
engage in environmental protection and energy conservation activities: environmental affairs negotiation 
mechanisms for suppliers, supplier obligations 
for environmental protection and corporate social 
responsibilities, concrete commitment for creating green 
industry supply chains and product life cycle assessment 
systems, electronic waste recycling system plans, participation in Taiwan’s environmental and ecological 
protection endeavors, engaging in green consumption to 
procure products labeled as environmental and energy 
saving.
● Promotion of green architectural action plan. 
Applications are made for green architectural certifications for all new buildings that cost NT$ 50 
million or more to build.
● Autonomous green energy in communications 
mechanical rooms: solar power generation, wind power 
generation, car and motorcycle reduction and retirement 
plans.Increasing Eco-efficiency
Eco-efficiency isproposed byWBCSD, aimedatimproving moreeffective resource utilization 
and lower pollution emissions. This indicator allows an understanding of the conditions of a 
corporation’s internal environment and business performance. In order to more effectively lower the 
environmental impacts fromthetelecommunications industry, andincrease resource utilization, we
haveintroduced manyenvironmental energyconserving mobileproducts /services andprograms,
which can assist residential and commercial departments and the transportation industry with 
reducing carbon emissions.
Carbon Reduction Results of 2009~2010
Reduction in 2010 
Compared to 2009Carbon Emissions 
Reductions 
(tCO 2e)
Group Electricity 
Usage (kWh)22,000,000 13,464
Group Gasoline 
Usage (L)84,125
267
Group Diesel Usage 
(L)29,373
Total 13,731ddressA46 47 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Environmental ImpactPromoting Green Procurement 
and Assistance in Creating Green Stores
We actively promote green procurement as we 
procure green environmental labels, energy saving 
labels, water saving labels, and green construction 
materials, sign green procurement agreements 
with private enterprises and groups, conduct green 
procurement seminars, etc., all of which are incorporated 
into annual budgets, with spending on such measures 
growing year after year.
We assist consumer cooperative commissaries 
of Northern Taiwan Business Group, Southern Taiwan Business Group, and Mobile Business Group in 
becoming green stores, while the Telecom Laboratories’ 
consumer cooperative commissary can also become 
a green store, making them the first private sector 
enterprise that joined the ranks of green stores as 
employee consumer cooperative commissaries.Execution of Employee Environmental 
Protection and Energy Conservation Action Plans
 
Our employees gain a more meaningful  
understanding of climate change issues through 
education and awareness promotion, which helps 
harness consensus and promote internal carbon 
reduction actions for the company.
● Implement environmental education action plans to 
enforce the Environmental Education Act● Encourage low-carbon commuting among employees: 
car-free days / carpools / public transit● Holding “Environmental Protection and Energy 
Conservation Competition for Communications 
Mechanical Rooms and Offices”
● Implementation of “Internal Assessment of Energy 
Conservation Performance for All Operation Offices”● Encourage environmental autonomy among employees
● Environmental education
● Donating second hand computers to charity or minority 
groups● Creation of environmental protection, energy 
conservation, and charitable service volunteer teamsExpanding Green Procurement
Chunghwa Telecom works with government policies to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities. 
We are fully promoting green procurement for all regional agencies, actively participating in the “Project onpromoting privateenterprises andorganizations’ greenpurchasing activities” initiated
bytheEnvironmental Protection Administration oftheExecutive Yuan,anddiligently investing in
environmentalism and energy conservation among employees.
Green Procurement V olume (in Hundred Millions of NT$)
Note:  amounts for 2009 and 2010 are actual, and amounts for 2011~2013 
are budgeted.Monetary Amount 
of Procurement
2009 2010 2011  2012         20132.064.181012
Green procurement can effectively expand a corporation’s economic, environmental, and social utilityddressA48 49 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Environmental ImpactGreen ICT
“Green” notonlyrepresents environmentalism, butalsohighefficiency, socialresponsibilities, and
lowcarbonlifestyles.Itsymbolizesvisionaryobjectivesthattranscendworldprosperity.“GreenICT” 
isregarded asanimportant toolwithwhichtoachieve carbonrestriction objectives. Twowidely
advocated scopesinclude: supporting energysavinglifestyles withICTtechnological applications,
andenergysaving,emissionreducing,andhighperformanceICTproducts/systems.
Moving towards Green ICT
Governments, industries, and consumers in Taiwan 
are starting to focus on “energy and carbon reduction” 
issues. In the future, industry structures will also 
gradually develop towards low carbon industries. As part 
of the telecommunications industry, we can help other 
industries increase energy efficiency and reduce energy 
usage (such as smart energy saving services and 
video conferences), and moving towards green ICT is 
helpful for creating greater developments and profitable 
opportunities in the market for us in the future.
Internal Green Operations
●  Consolidated bill transfer payments for nationwide water / electrical bills, and creation of electricity and 
water usage management information platforms.
●  Using ODAS documentation systems to promote online 
document signing. Procurement bidding processes 
allow contractor electronic tendering and online 
electronic bidding, as well as allow agencies to upload 
bidding files and open online bidding services
●  Promoting “electronic billing” services: customers are 
provided with online inquiry mechanisms for computers 
and cell phones, including bills owing, online payments, 
bill analysis management, etc.
●  Telecommunications bill management: bills are merged to reduce paper billing, which reduces carbon emissions 
as well.Primary Energy Saving Products / 
Services
●  Autonomous research, development, and completion 
of “Intelligent Energy Network (iEN), which assists 
families, companies, and agency organizations with 
energy and carbon reduction to reduce electricity 
consumption.
●  Selling energy and carbon reduction programs: 
including mobile video phones, mobile tour guides, 
mobile yellow pages, computer energy conservation, 
conference phones, video conferences, etc.
●  Promoting “taxi dispatch services”: optimization of scheduling systems through satellite precision 
positioning, thus reducing vehicle gasoline consumption, 
and allows consumers to enjoy faster taxi services.
●  Developing green energy saving products to reduce lighting electricity: development of LED-E27-9W lighting 
(expected cost recovery within 2 years).
●  Providing “Unified Communications” (UC): provision of 
integrated services such as long distance instantaneous 
work communication, voice communication, application 
sharing, file sharing, personal computer video 
conferences, etc.
●  Development of long distance medical care: integration 
of internal clinic resources through WiMAX broadband 
networks to engage in long distance diagnoses.
●  Applying network technologies to integrate e-home 
care smart technology systems, material management, 
remote access home appliances, and other ICT 
contractor projects.
●  Bill return records and clearance record procedures for HiNet clients of the Taiwan Clearing House: dedicated 
government research and development of land use 
systems that allow people to apply for land cadastre 
information online and receive electronic copies of such 
information.
 esponseR48 49 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Environmental ImpactEncourage Economic Transformation
We are also working with the Taiwanese government 
in promoting the six new emerging industries, and will 
be devoted entirely to developing industry-tailored 
technology applications to assist corporations in 
developing towards green transformations. Therefore, 
we have planned environmental sustainability blueprints 
that are appropriate for our own characteristics. In the 
future, we will be focused on five major developmental 
aspects to fulfill our objective of creating a sustainable 
homelandInvesting in Green Futures
We will also start from supply chains and fully 
initiate green procurement plans. Starting from cloud 
facilities, we expect to invest NT$ 40 billion in the next 
5 years on cloud operations, which will be primarily 
focused on procuring cloud equipments with energy and 
carbon reduction and iEN smart system capabilities.In2010,theTaiwanese government initiated the“National EnergyandCarbonReduction Plan”
tosetoutprioritybenchmark plansaccording totheproject’s policyorientation. Consumers 
havebeganfocusing onthedevelopmental conditions ofenergysaving/greenproducts from
corporations, and developing products and services that help conserve energy is also helpful for 
raising our corporate image.Blueprint for Environmental Sustainability
Five Major Aspects of Environmental Sustainability Blueprint
Environmental 
DisclosureEnergy 
EfficiencyRenewable 
ResourceEnvironmental 
AutonomyProducts and 
Services
1. Continue carbon 
audits
2.  Continue 
addressing relevant 
carbon information 
disclosure and 
environmental sustainability issues and producing 
reports
3.  Continue increasing 
percentages of environmental 
expenditures
4.  Engage in environmental 
sustainability 
awareness 
promotion and 
surveys for suppliers1. Engage on 
consolidation of 
mechanical rooms
2. Build additional iEN systems
3. Engage in energy conservation of air conditioning systems
4. Use solar powered 
water heating 
equipments
5.  Engage in recycling 
and reuse of water
6.  Green construction: 
Chunghwa Telecom Green 
Environmental Club
7. Develop 
environmental LED 
lights1. Construct solar 
power systems
2. Construct wind 
power systems
3.  Construct fuel cell 
power systems1. Enforce green 
procurements
2. Use environmental 
energy saving 
vehicles
3. Use paper-free 
ODAS documentation systems
4.  Incorporate 
ISO14001 
management systems
5. Energy saving 
and environmental protection for offices
6. Energy saving 
and environmental 
protection for 
mechanical rooms
7. Health management 
systems
8. Account for car-free 
days
9. Account for Earth Day
10. Recycle and reuse 
industrial wastes
11. Create energy 
conservation service 
teams
12.  Promote home 
cleanup activities1. Provide electronic 
billing services
2.  Provide ICT 
products / services for construction 
contractors
3.  Provide iEN products 
/ services for air 
conditioning
4. Enforce environmental 
management systems
5. Continue recycling cell 
phones
6. Continue researching 
and developing energy 
saving products
7.   Assist suppliers 
with securing environmental labels 
for communications 
productsargetT50 51 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social Investment
Concentration on Digital Opportunities
LBG Social Contribution Assessment
Social Innovation
Investigation and AnalysisInclusive Business
● Winning 3outof7awardsfor“Distinguished Telecommunications Enterprises forDisaster Relief
andCareAction,”aswellaswilling7outof11individual awardsfor“Distinguished Personnel for
Emergency Repairs of Public Communications” during the corporate social responsibility award 
ceremony of the NCC’s fourth anniversary, making Chunghwa the recipient of the highest number 
of awards in the telecommunications industry.
● Receiving the“Commemorative AwardforParticipating intheConstruction ofHighDisaster 
Resistance Communications Platform in Namasia Township, Kaohsiung County” from the NCC
●Receptionofthe Arts&Business AwardsoftheCouncilforCultural Affairs,Executive Yuan
●Receptionofthe“2010Gold Awardof AthleticPromotionoftheExecutive Yuan”
AwardstrategyS
esponseRddressA
argetTanagementM
 Social Investment50 51 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social InvestmentSix Major Causes of Digital Gap
Digital divide in today’s society is primarily due to 
the following causes:
● Geographical gap: gap that result from people in urban 
and remote areas.● Economic gap: gap that result from people of different 
income levels.● Knowledge gap: gap that result from different levels of 
knowledge between different groups of people.● Disability gap: gap those results from the general 
public and disabled persons.
● Health gap: gap those results from people of different 
age groups or health conditions.● Gender gap: middle age and senior women suffer 
from significant disparities when using information and communication services due to traditional notions of 
family care.
Chunghwa Telecom had proposed many solutions 
to address the aforementioned digital gap. In the future, 
we will actively engage in social innovations to address these issues.Five Major Aspects of Digital 
Opportunities
Based in the information and communications 
characteristics of Chunghwa Telecom, the two major 
missions of social investments from Chunghwa Telecom 
and the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation are “reduction of 
digital disparities and creation of digital opportunities.
Chunghwa Telecom’s commitment on this issue 
involves diverse social investments over five aspects. 
“Hardware infrastructure” is the foundation for modern 
people’s communication. “Product or service donation” 
allows communication technologies to properly utilize their values. “Research, development, and innovation” 
focuses on assisting disabled persons with sharing 
convenient communication. “Corporate volunteerism” 
allow our employees to directly utilize their capabilities 
and participate in community building. Meanwhile, 
“Chunghwa Telecom Foundation” is the pioneer in our 
endeavor to create digital opportunities.Concentration on Digital Opportunities
In the age of technological progress, “digital divide” have created unfair conditions in education 
and employment opportunities. Building on the characteristics and core professional capabilities of the telecommunications industry, our social investments are focused on “reducing digital divide” 
and “creating digital opportunities.” We are also significantly devoted on introducing “corporate 
volunteers” toparticipate inlocalized community services andactivelyassistwithcreation ofdigital
opportunities in local communities.
Creation of Digital Opportunities
Research, Development, and Innovation
Donation of Services / Products
Construction of Hardware InfrastructureCorporate Volunteer ServicesChunghwa Telecom FoundationCreation of Digital Opportunities
Education Industry Culture Non-ProfitChunghwa Telecom Solutions
Geographical gap Increased availability of services, etc
Economic gapCommunication incentives for low 
income and minority groups
Knowledge Gap Computer classes for adults, etc
Disability gapCustomer service for visually impaired 
persons
Health Disparity GPS, etc
Gender gap Digital Good NeighborstrategyS52 53 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social InvestmentLBG Social Contribution Assessment
Wehavealwaysbeencommitted toourcorporate visionof“utilizing societytocareforsociety.”
NotonlyareweTaiwan’s mostsignificant composite telecommunications company withnetworks
and services across Taiwan and its outer islands, our corporate vision further shapes our self 
recognition over social contributions. Over the years, we continue to apply our core capabilities to 
create concrete values for Taiwanese society and assist people with increasing their qualities of life.
Social Investment Statistics
Since 2008, we have gradually increased our social 
investment amounts. In 2010, social investment not 
only increased 20% from 2009, social investment also 
exceeded 1% of business revenues for the first time, 
achieving comparable standards compared to leading 
international corporations.
Also, we have improved our statistics calculation 
methods: the new section of “management expenditures” 
is added to social investment categories to allow people 
to further understand costs associated with engaging in non-profit activities. In 2010, cash donations account 
for 14.6%, product and service donations account for 
78.4%, and management expenditures account for 7%. 
In the future, we will control management expenditures 
so that they remain below this level.Social Contribution Assessment
In 2010, we have adopted the London Benchmark 
Group’s (LBG) model to assess the utility of social 
investments. This model is formed by a group of 
corporations and non-profit organizations committed to 
quantifying the effects of social investments. This model 
had been used for over 18 years internationally, with 
over 150 corporations around the world employing the 
LBG model.
According to the LBG model:1.  Formulation of planned targets: community / 
corporation
2. Activity type (classified by motivations)
3. Value of investment: total monetary value, 
physical objects, employee hours, and planning 
and management costs
4.  External resource integration: community projects 
that result from other resources
5.  Community benefit: performance assessment of 
project results for communities
6.  Commercial benefit: performance assessment of 
project results for commerce
7.  Assessment of effects on communities / 
corporations
Quantifying community investments can assist us 
with engaging in reasonable resource allocation and 
avoid repetitive resource investment. Thus, financial and 
non-financial investment can be effectively combined, 
while expectations of multitudes of stakeholders can be satisfied at the same time to create more effective social 
contributions. The priorities of our work will continue 
to focus on enhancing the volume, management, and 
dialogue associated with social participation.Type of Social 
Investment2008 2009 2010
Cash 
Donations71,380 165,044 273,778
Product or Service 
Donations176,136  1,391,422 1,470,014
Management 
Expenditures--- --- 131,395
Total 247,516 1,556,467 1,875,187
Percentage of 
Business Revenues0.43% 0.84% 1.01%
Hours of Corporate 
Volunteer Services 
(Hours)49,355 41,979 147,083Social Investments (Unit: Thousands of NT$)anagementM52 53 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social InvestmentLBG Social Contribution Assessment
Creation of Diverse Digital Values
The mission behind the establishment of Chunghwa 
Telecom is to improve digital disparities over education 
and broadcast for people of different urban and rural 
residence, identity groups, and income levels, as well 
as promoting physical and mental health and balancing 
overuse of information technology. In 2010, we continue 
to promote digital learning plans, as well as assisting 
communities with incorporating technologies into life and 
combining industry and culture, with the aim of creating 
more diverse values with digital technologies.
We continue to encourage and support various 
plans for computer classes, the contents of which are planned appropriately according to the needs and 
abilities of the students. In 2010, we have donated a 
total of 157 computers, 125 Windows XP programs, 166 
Microsoft Office applications, and other relevant and 
necessary software and hardware equipments. We have 
also opened 1,240 hours of computer classes, the types 
of which range from basic computer learning and simple document processing to lifestyle blog management and 
simple artistic software application. We have further 
opened advanced professional artistic design classes to 
transform job requirements into learning motivations.
After Hurricane Morakot, Chunghwa Telecom 
Foundation provided free opportunities to establish 
virtual stores on HiNet for “Nanshalu Business Office of 
Namasia Township, Kaohsiung” and “Organic Produce 
of Shanmei Village, Chiayi,” in order to assist industries in disaster areas with opening sales channels. We 
not only focus on short term sales profits, but also 
incorporate assistance for village industry workers to 
gradually understand electronic commerce concepts, 
and concretely bringing digital technologies into aspects 
such as industry needs and lifestyles. By developing 
professional aptitude through training classes, we can 
change traditional ways of thinking and selling, and 
convert crisis into business opportunities.Continuous Feedback
Chunghwa Telecom had always played pivotal roles 
in the communications and networking field. However, 
we are not only thinking about market leadership. Of 
greater importance is how to give back to society and 
fulfill our corporate social responsibilities. Chunghwa 
Telecom Foundation is established to fulfill the primary 
missions of reducing digital disparities, assisting local 
cultural industries, and participating in community 
life. Starting from communities, we continue to assist 
local cultural industries and participate in community life by combining caring companionship concepts with 
Chunghwa Telecom’s core professionalism.Social Innovation
Chunghwa Telecom continue to assist the government with implementing increasing 
telecommunications availability andservices. Also,wehaveestablished Chunghwa Telecom 
Foundation tofulfilltheprimarymissions ofreducing digitalgap,assisting localculturalindustries,
and participating in community life. Starting from communities, we continue to assist local cultural industries and participate in community life by combining caring companionship concepts with Chunghwa Telecom’s core professionalism.
The Hua Zang Geng Xin Educational Foundation, located in Sanchong 
District, New Taipei City, was established into a Digital Good Neighbor in September 2010. Out of the vision for resource sharing, the unit provides free classes to community residents to provide opportunities of higher learning.
ddressA54 55 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social InvestmentYoung people frequently move 
out of rural communities, resulting 
in considerable impacts against 
local developments.
Since becoming a Digital 
Good Neighbor in 2006, Jingliao Village in Tainan is now in its fourth year of cooperation with Chunghwa 
Telecom Foundation. In order 
to fulfill CSR visions, corporate volunteers from Chunghwa  
Telcom’s Tainan and Chiayi 
operation office were introduced at its founding, whose boundless 
spirit for service impressed many 
students as they held computer classes for new immigrant mothers 
in the Jingliao Church, which also 
made them role models. In 2010, Chunghwa Telecom’s corporate 
volunteers diversified their services. On top of class teaching, they 
also participated in preliminary 
operations of Good Neighbor 
establishment, including software and hardware environment  
establishment, equipment  
troubleshooting, and further participation in projects that 
helped maintain positive 
interactive relationships with local community village 
residents.
In addition to corporate 
volunteers, Chunghwa  Telecom Foundation also 
directly contacts college  and university student 
volunteers to work in Good 
Neighbor locations. Service formats primarily consist 
of learning aspects, which provide college students with 
opportunities for rural service, 
and more importantly, introduces 
learning resources to minority rural areas, which is of great help for 
communities and villages that are 
significantly lacking in learning resources.
In 2010, we worked with 
Paper Windmill Play Company and held a tour of eight shows in “Digital Good Neighbor” 
locations, combining local 
culture with environmental and contemporary issues. We have 
introduced the “New Immigrant 
Playhouse” and “Environmental Education Playhouse,” which 
help viewers understand  
Southeast Asian cultural  traditions and also educate 
viewers on the importance of 
mountain and forest resources and avoiding repetitions of the 
Typhoon Morakit disaster.
After Paper Windmill Play 
Company completed its tour, vibrant responses from the Good 
Neighbor location motivated us to invite other cultural groups to 
perform in rural areas. We hope 
to diversify such performances, and therefore decided to invite the highly experienced “Taiwan 
Brass Quintet” to perform in 
Good Neighbor locations. As opposed to merely distant 
observation of music, local 
musical pieces were carefully arranged for the performances, 
while performers further informed 
the audience “what brass instruments are” in humorous 
and education manners, thus 
stimulating  and energizing 
monotonous  
music theories.
Paper Windmill Play Company performs in Lushang Church of Fangwan 
Township, Changhua, and is well received by audiences of all ages.
Taiwan Brass Quintet performs in Jingliao Church of Houbi, Tainan. Every local musical piece impresses the audience below the stage.
Introduction of Rural Volunteer Service
Promoting Compassion and Care for Digital Good NeighborsStudent volunteers from National Chiao Tung University travel to Fenglin Church of Sheze Township, Pingtung County, to conduct summer service.
54 55 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social InvestmentAfter Typhoon Morakot,  
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation 
and Fu Jen Catholic University’s 
long distance education assistance group immediately initiated  
cooperative plans to establish 
the first long distance education assistance class in Majia Township, 
Pingtung County.
In March 2010, the long 
distance educational assistance program provided learning  
opportunities to the children of Good Shepherd Social Welfare 
Services. Although this area is not 
in the so-called “rural towns,” new immigrant families in large cities 
suffer disadvantages in securing 
resources. New immigrants cannot assist children’s schoolwork on 
their own, and cannot afford the 
costs of tutors and extracurricular classes. After several assessments, we have combined the Chunghwa Telecom’s Banqiao training grounds 
with Fu Jen Catholic University’s 
professional teams and decided to distribute resources to people that 
need them most. 
In September, Fenglin Church 
of Sheze Township, Pingtung County became the third long 
distance education assistance location. Most families there were 
economically disadvantaged. 
Subsequently, we incorporated available space in Sheze  
Township’s digital opportunities 
center to facilitate long distance education assistance programs.
To ameliorate the emotional 
distance caused by the nature of long distance education assistance, 
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation 
and Fu Jen Catholic University coordinated meet-and-greet activities. Through personal face-to-face interaction, teachers and 
students can understand each 
other better, which is helpful for subsequent class proceedings. 
Also, to account for the free time 
over winter and summer breaks, Fu Jen Catholic University’s tem 
created customized “summer 
school” programs. In July, students from Good Shepherd Social 
Welfare Services participated in 
20-day summer school programs, and experienced a wider range 
of classes and knowledge,  
thus spending an enriched and meaningful summer.
The “Summer School” held during the summer school 
provides Good Shepherd’s children with different learning contents through the class designs of Fu Jen Catholic University’s professional teams.Chunghwa Telecom’s Banqiao training school provides dedicated computer classrooms to facilitate long distance education assistance programs. Every Tuesday and Thursday, students will come here to initiate journeys of learning with education assistance teachers from the other end.
Remedying Education Resource Disparity with Long Distance Education56 57 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social InvestmentEvent Time Event Location
1 5/29 ~ 5/30 Shegang Community, Taichung County
2 7/5 ~ 57/7 Renhe Elementary School, Chiayi County
3 7/19 ~ 57/21 Tonglin Elementary School, Taichung County
4 8/3 ~ 58/6 Huanan Elementary School, Yunlin County
5 8/16 ~ 58/18 Shuichuan Elementary School, Pingtung County“Innovative Reading Camp” Events in 2010Chunghwa Telecom Foundation  
and Senao Technical and Cultural Foundation held five innovative reading camps, which were well received by critics and students alike.
Incorporation of mobile book vehicle resources of the Changhua County Neighborhood Care Association facilitates reading activities in Lushang Church, which connects local resources 
and avoids resource repetition.
Innovative Reading, Reading Innovation
Digital disparities are not 
only caused by shortages of 
hardware equipment. More often, 
they result from entrenchment of erroneous concepts.  
Through continuous education 
processes, we encourage users to “use computers well” so that 
“computers can serve well.” 
In 2010, Chunghwa Telecom Foundation attempted to infuse 
reading concepts into computer applications, and held five 
innovative reading camp events 
with Senao Technical and Cultural 
Foundation. By using digital technology as the medium and 
converting reading experiences 
into video recordings, students can achieve balance between text 
reading and technical images, 
and develop various aspects of computer applications.
By starting from “reading,” we extend the definition of reading to allow wider room for imagination. 
By exceeding the traditional 
methods of text reading, and incorporating elements such as 
bodily movements, traditional 
games, drama performances, students can properly understand 
experiences described by words 
during the process of their participation in the event.56 57 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social InvestmentIn August 2009, as Taiwan 
was ravaged by Typhoon Morakot, 
Chunghwa Telecom rushed into 
disaster areas at the first available opportunity and utilized core 
telecommunications technologies 
to assist with repairing terminated electric routing in disaster areas 
and providing shelter residents with 
operational free phone lines and bandwidth, so that local residents 
can contact their families as early 
as possible.
In January 2010, Chunghwa 
Telecom and Chunghwa Telecom Foundation arranged four  “Chunghwa Telecom Passing-the-
Love Market” event. The “Passing-
the-Love Market,” which is formed at Chunghwa Telecom’s operation offices in Fengshan, Chiayi, 
Pingtung, and Taitung with the 
“great neighbor” concept, provides free sales space for businesses 
in disaster areas, 
allowing more  people to understand 
Taiwan’s local  
industries and  become more willing 
to help disaster areas 
through consumer action. The 7-day 
“Chunghwa Telecom 
Passing-the-Love Market” event in  
four locations won 
positive recognition from industry workers, Chunghwa Telecom employees, and  
consumers alike.
After Typhoon Morakot,  
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation 
initiated the “Taiwan’s Hotspots” 
project with Taipei Culture  
Foundation and Ximen’s Red House out of insistence on its 
original vision. Industry workers 
from disaster areas who are willing to participate in exhibits 
are invited to enter Taipei City’s 
busiest commercial districts. To promote local industries and 
infuse developments from cultural 
innovation industries, the Red House jointly held the “Taiwan’s 
Hotspots” event series from June 
to September, enabling cultural innovation industries to prosper 
and develop with local cultures. 
Allowing people to see Taiwan’s local industries through more 
diverse methods also brings new 
inspirations for cultural innovation industries through interdisciplinary 
cooperation. By using different 
methods, incorporating joint sales from multiple innovators and Chunghwa Telecom, and relying in Ximending’s geographical 
advantage, young customer  
clienteles can be increased for local cultural innovation industries. 
We also used the “point market” 
method to invite local workers to set up booths, and their interaction 
with consumers also inspired 
more opportunities for innovative inspirations for innovators. As well, 
the “point workshop” cooperation 
model was adopted to attract people of all ages who enjoy innovating 
with their hands, which not only 
allows consumers to understand the process and value of original 
creations, but also becomes seeds 
of invention. Furthermore, the event was augmented with “innovative 
theme booths” to intimate with 
clienteles, so that everyone can understand innovation stories within 
Taiwan through more channels.
The exhibit space is based on the main axis of “Innovation 
Theme Booth of Taiwan’s  Hotspots,” combined with “point 
markets” and “point workshops,” 
so that consumers in general can understand the industries involved 
through different formats and 
depth levels. As they make their purchases, buyers become closer 
to the production grounds and 
producers of their products through industry story cards. Meanwhile, the 
weekly market event is an excellent 
opportunity for innovators to explain innovative principles to the public. 
Also, practice classes in workshops 
provide consumers with valuable experience in handicraft innovation 
industries. With every element’s 
design and every sale process, we hope to provide industry workers 
with opportunities to repeatedly 
review their work and thus increase market competitiveness.Chunghwa Telecom Passing-the-Love Market Event
Taiwan’s Hotspots           Location      Date
1st EventGangshan Service Center, 
Fengshan Operation Office1/12~1/13
2nd Event Chiayi Operation Office 1/14~1/15
3rd EventPingtung Service Center, 
Pingtung Operation Office1/17
4th Event Taitung Operation Office 1/19~1/202010 Passing-the-Love Market Events58 59 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social Investment“Taiwan’s Hotspots” provide 
businesses with physical sales 
locations. However, to industry 
workers from disaster areas or rural towns, utilizing online store models 
can reduce transportation costs for 
imports and exports of goods and increase product visibility. Also, 
product innovation and market 
compatibility can be further inspired by having producers directly 
encounter buyers. Therefore, 
in 2010, we have incorporated Chunghwa Telecom’s networked 
online store advantages to provide 
people intent on opening online stores with professional training 
classes and store opening services.
“Nanshalu Business Office of 
Namasia Township, Kaohsiung” and “Organic Produce of Shanmei 
Village, Chiayi” are located in Namasia Township of Kaohsiung County and Alishan Township of 
Chiayi County, which were most 
severely damaged by Typhoon Morakot. After the typhoon disaster, 
Alishan Township, which relied 
on agricultural produce, almost became bankrupt. Meanwhile, 
Namasia  
Township,  which relied on 
handicraft items, 
could not sell  anything.
Currently,  
the contents  of online store 
assistance  
programs include rental and internet 
fees required  
for sponsored  community industries, and also provision of human resource 
management fees, in order to 
encourage village people in achieving the objective of “digital 
learning and application.”
Assisting Villages with Online Stores
The consecutive nights of 
heavy rain from Typhoon Morakot turned Xiaolin Village of Jiaxian 
Township, Kaohsiung County into one of the most disaster-stricken 
villages from the typhoon disaster. 
Namasia Township, located in Kaohsiung County, also suffered 
similar damages.After Chunghwa Telecom’s 
Fengshan operation office became aware of conditions in Nanshalu, it 
proactively provided an area of the operation office to act as industry 
sales spaces. By incorporating 
Chunghwa Telecom’s specialization and the advanced and convenient 
“iHome Smart Phone” system, consumers can directly engage 
in online inquiries and purchases 
with sellers in Nanshalu, which not 
only resolves consumer concerns over products, but also increases 
direct contact between sellers and 
consumers, which is helpful for establishing long term sales lines.Dream Building Workshop of Namasia Township, Kaohsiung County
The concept of harmonious 
coexistence between people and 
land is becoming increasingly 
common, and consumers are beginning to harness trust and 
acceptance in “non-toxic,” “organic,” 
“local,” and other products. Therefore, in 2010, we hoped to 
rally more corporate volunteers 
to apply actual purchases to further understand and interact with local industries. Other than holding irregular large market 
events in Chunghwa Telecom’s 
Headquarters and the weekly small market sales of Piyaway 
organic product, provide grounds 
for Piyaway villagers from Taoyuan (35 events from May 6 to the end 
of the year) and our partners from 
Geng Xin in Sanchong (13 events since September 17) to sell healthy produce and self-produced foods, which, helps village communities 
with pioneering sales channels and 
encourage autonomous business development, and also encourage 
internal employees to apply 
concrete action to participate in the process of corporate promotion of 
social responsibilities.Chunghwa Telecom Continuously Helping Community Villages Sell Local Products through Action
With opening online stores through the HiNet platform, we are 
creating new sales platforms.58 59 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social InvestmentStable Growth of Digital Good 
Neighbors
In order to help residents living in remote areas 
overcome digital disparity issues, Chunghwa Telecom 
had been continuously facilitating the “Digital Good 
Neighbor” project for many years. Other than sponsoring 
computer, network, and communication equipments, 
and forming long term cooperation partnerships with 
local non-profit organizations. From 2006 to 2010, 
“Digital Good Neighbors” were created across over 40 
communities and villages.
In order to understand the operational conditions 
of all “Digital Good Neighbors,” Chunghwa Telecom conducted questionnaire surveys in 2010. 30 
questionnaires in total were issued, of which 20 effective 
questionnaires were returned, resulting in an effective 
return rate of 70%.
Because of Chunghwa Telecom works closely 
with all establishment and implementation units, the 
mature and stable “Digital Good Neighbors” can mostly 
devise their own class contents appropriate for their communities, while Good Neighbors in development can 
also proactively discuss class contents with Chunghwa 
Telecom Foundation. Therefore, classes were all 
conducted properly, all yielding significant results.  
According to the analysis of this questionnaire 
survey, each “Digital Good Neighbor” opens for 657 
hours on average, and is used by 1,447 persons on 
average. An average of 72 people participate in an 
average of 14 computer learning classes held.Significant Leverage
“Digital Good Neighbors” also resulted in significant 
leverage effects, allowing communities to reconnect 
to government or corporate resources. The 20 
implementation units who responded to questionnaires 
consolidated a total of 18 categories of resources, 
secured NT$ 517,000 in funding support. Also, there 
are equipment or facility donations and participation 
from local private sector units. The operation of “Digital 
Good Neighbors” can also inspire participation from local 
authorities, who may contribute their capabilities or time. Meanwhile, every unit has 7 volunteers on average, 
serving as many as 388 hours.
The multitudes of benefits accumulated by “Digital 
Good Neighbors” are also of considerable importance 
towards sustainable development of communities, of 
which the most significant effects include “allowing 
residents to become more familiar with each other,” 
“convenient learning of new knowledge,” “more 
convenient lifestyles,” “learning new capabilities,” “better facilitated dialogue and cooperation,” and “people 
focusing more living environments.”
Under optimal foundations, all “Digital Good 
Neighbors” still have considerable growth potential, and 
also demonstrate intense intents. On average, every unit 
has 3 subsequent projects under planning, which can 
effect more long term benefits for community residents.Investigation and Analysis
Ourvisionbehindinitiatingthe“DigitalGoodNeighbors” projectin2006was:alloweveryone to
“use computers well,” so that “computers can serve well,” and allow everyone to “use internet well,” 
sothat“internet canservewell.”Thefinalobjective isthatpeoplecan“useopportunities well,”and
that “opportunities can serve well.” Over the last several years, Chunghwa Telecom’s employees across Taiwan continuously provide ceaseless service assistance, and our corporate promise and commitment to creating digital opportunities have won recognition from local authorities and local residents alike.esponseR60 61 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social InvestmentThree Major Operational Priorities
In our future resolution of digital disparities, we 
will explore ways to account for commercial profits and 
corporate social responsibilities at the same time, while 
preemptively addressing large business opportunities 
and markets from people who want to increase their 
living standards. Our diligence will be directed as follows:
1.  Education: providing ICT education services for 
students in rural towns, aboriginal mountain areas, and 
schools destroyed by typhoons, so that children can learn 
anywhere they go, or take photographs of their current scenery and upload them to international databases 
to search for information in the photograph. Innovative 
technologies will also be applied to increase children’s 
interest in learning and innovative developmental 
capabilities (current services include: storytelling with 
love 12512).
2.  Health: work with medical clinics to improve 
care for chronic illnesses or seniors through ICT 
assistance, such as regular transmission of morning and nighttime blood pressure and blood sugar measurements 
back to the hospital, recommended exercises and 
healthy cookbooks, instant video inquiry hotlines, etc 
(current similar products offered include: iHome Care).
3.  Disabled persons: develop ICT solutions and 
services that fulfill the needs of disabled persons.Non-Profit Cooperation with 
Public Departments
We also provide proposals to address current 
conditions of large workloads and manpower budget 
constraints surrounding public departments, aimed at 
assisting public departments with caring for every citizen. 
In 2010, we proposed the “Delivery Service Plan for 
Hsinchu County,” which is briefed to government leaders. 
In the future, all information regarding disaster prevention 
and response, county government bulletins, education 
services, industrial and commercial services, etc, can be 
easily retrieved by clicking on “MOD County Deliveries.”
Under the contemporary trend of servicing the 
people, the internet can assist public departments by starting from public and household safety and eventually 
achieving the mission of providing convenient services to 
the people through agricultural produce sales, education 
quality, home energy saving, local cultures, care for 
social welfare, and employment incentives. Public 
departments can also use MOD to instantaneously 
understand public opinion, response to public demands, and at the same time provide the stage for new emerging 
industries to develop new job opportunities.
Public-Help-Search System
In addition to cooperating over many non-profit text 
message and free service codes with the government, we also tested the “Public-Help-Search System” in 
2010. The “Public-Help-Search System” is the result of 
innovation, research, and development from Chunghwa 
Telecom Laboratories. Through the text messaging 
function of a personal cell phone, relevant information 
can be sent proactively to volunteers to assist the Child 
Welfare League Foundation (abbreviated as CWLF) and 
Federation for the Welfare of the Elderly (abbreviated as “Seniors’ League”) with finding lost children and seniors. 
According to system operation results, currently, the 
resolution rate of lost person cases is approximately 
52%. The capacity of more search volunteers is badly 
needed to improve these statistics.In this age of rapidly evolving technologies, we are committed to creating a digitally inclusive 
information society. Inthisnon-discriminatory information society, noonewillexperience any
disparity in terms of opportunities of interacting with and using information due to differences in 
education levels, gender, age, ethnicity, or locations of residence.Inclusive BusinessargetT60 61 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010 Social InvestmentDuring the Expo, the Taiwan Pavilion was a distinguished section. In order to allow people who could not 
attend the event in person to also experience the pride of the Taiwan Pavilion, we have established the “Expo 
Zone” in the three platforms of hiChannel, emome, and MOD, where people can watch instantaneously. The 16 
ambassadors of the Taiwan Pavilion were also invited to broadcast live from Chunghwa Telecom’s Xuite blog. 
Also, we have also introduced the “Daily Rental of Digital Expo Tour” proposal, allowing people in the Expo to 
share their thoughts instantly with family and friends.Expo 2010 Shanghai China
The FIFA World Cup 2010 in South Africa, 
the first World Cup in an African country, is a high 
profile event to people around the world, and also 
one of the most popular international attractions. 
We have long been committed to broadcasts of 
sports events, but in this event, not only do we 
provide high quality MOD bilingual broadcasts, 
so that soccer fans do not miss any captivating 
moment, HiNet and emome also broadcast live 
from the event throughout its entire duration, so that people can travel and watch at the same 
time.
The greatest event at the end of 2010 – the Taipei 
International Flora Expo, contained Chunghwa Telecom as its 
only telecommunications sponsor. Other than overall foundational 
network establishment and end user equipments, we also provided 
dedicated event-wide wireless applications, mobile tour guide 
services, and mobile added value services, allowing people to 
experience the charm of the mobile Flora Expo before they arrive at 
the event itself.FIFA World Cup 2010 in South Africa
2010 Taipei Flora ExpoSpecial Edition: 
Innovative Technology and Inspiring Service
In2010,wehaveintroduced variousinnovative technology products andservices, basedonthe
mainaxisof“innovative technology” and“inspiring service,” aswellasinvitingpeopletoexperience
theseaccomplishmentsduringvariousmajorevents.
Taipei Mayor Lung-pin Hau, Chairman Lu, and soccer team members 
attend the opening live broadcast press conference of “Taipei High World Cup”
The Flora Expo, spanning 6 month long, exhibited at least 3,300 species and 3.297 million plants, as well as various theme pavilions distributed in the vast Flora Expo exhibit region. The QR Code / NFC Bluetooth Dongle service that we introduced enables instant retrieval of relevant information upon photographing of the QR Code or retrieval of RFID, to eliminate confusion for people attending the event
62Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010
63 Assurance Statement
64Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2010GRI G3 CONTENT INDEX
Chunghwa Telecom’s Responses Page
    Profile
1.1  Message from CEO 1
1.2  Risk and crisis management 18
2.1  Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd. ---
2.2  Profile of Chunghwa Telecom 6, 25
2.3  Chunghwa Telecom Organizational Chart 5
2.4   21-3 Hsinyi Road, Sec. 1, Taipei, Taiwan 100 R.O.C. ---
2.5  Expanding Overseas Operations, Subsidiaries 4,5
2.6  Shareholder Structure 17
2.7  Taiwan ---
2.8  Market Position 6
2.9  (No significant changes) ---
2.10  Awards 8, 16, 22, 32, 40, 50
3.1  2010.01.01~12.31 ---
3.2  2010.08 ---
3.3  Yearly ---
3.4  Editorial Policy ---
3.5  Key Issues Matrix 11
3.6  Editorial Policy ---
3.7  Editorial Policy ---
3.8  Editorial Policy ---
3.9  (Demo as Note after Each Table) ---
3.10  (Demo as Note after Each Table) ---
3.11  (No significant changes) ---
3.12  GRI G3 Content Index 64, 65
3.13  AA1000 Assurance Statement 62, 63
4.1   Operation and Performance Assessment of the Board of Directors 17
4.2  (No) ---
4.3   Operation and Performance Assessment of the Board of Directors 17
4.4  Information Disclosure 17
4.5   Operation and Performance Assessment of the Board of Directors 17
4.6   Operation and Performance Assessment of the Board of Directors 17
4.7   Operation and Performance Assessment of the Board of Directors 17
4.8  Code of Conduct 19
4.9   Operation and Performance Assessment of the Board of Directors 17
4.10   Operation and Performance Assessment of the Board of Directors 17
4.11  Risk Analysis and Response 18
4.12   Establishment of International CSR Partnership Relations 13
4.13   Establishment of International CSR Partnership Relations 13
4.14  Engagement with Stakeholders 114.15   Engagement with Stakeholders 11
4.16   Engagement with Stakeholders 11
4.17   Engagement with Stakeholders 11
  Economic
  DMA   Enforcement of Ethical Business Practices 17
EC1   Consolidated Financial Performance 6
EC2   Climate Change Risks 18
EC3   Retirement Benefits 37
EC4   (No Financial Aid from Government ) ---
EC5   (The standard salary higher than the local minimum wage ) ---
EC6   Expansion of Supplier Management 10
EC7   Employee Overview 33
EC8   Product or Service Donations 52
EC9   LBG Social Contribution Assessment 52
  Environmental
  DMA   Adaptation to Climate Change 41
EN1   Overview of Environmental Impacts 45
EN2   Overview of Environmental Impacts 45
EN3   Overview of Environmental Impacts 45
EN4   Overview of Environmental Impacts 45
EN5   Environmental Management System 42
EN6   Environmental Management System 42
EN7   Environmental Management System 42
EN8   Overview of Environmental Impacts 45
EN9   (No such cases) ---
EN10   (No such cases) ---
EN11   (No such cases) ---
EN12   (No such cases) ---
EN13   (No such cases) ---
EN14   (No such cases) ---
EN15   (No such cases) ---
EN16   Overview of Environmental Impacts 45
EN17   Overview of Environmental Impacts 45
EN18   Electricity Usage Management Targets 44
EN19   (No such cases) ---
EN20   (No such cases) ---
EN21  (No such cases) ---
EN22   Overview of Environmental Impacts 45
EN23   (No such cases) ---
EN24   (No such cases) ---
EN25   (No such cases) ---65 GRI G3 CONTENT INDEXEN26   Green ICT 48
EN27   (No such cases) ---
EN28   (No such cases) ---
EN29   Increasing Eco-efficiency 46
EN30   Expanding Green Procurement 47
   Labor Practices and Decent Work
DMA   Caring for Employee Needs 33
LA1   Employee Overview 33
LA2   Employee Overview 33
LA3   Employee Benefit Programs 36
LA4   Labor-Employer Harmony 33
LA5   Labor-Employer Harmony 33
LA6   Labor-Employer Harmony 33
LA7   Occupational Hazard Statistics 38
LA8   Employee Benefit Programs 37
LA9   Employee Benefit Programs 37
LA10    Employee Education, Training, and Higher Learning 34
LA11   Training for Professional 34
LA12    Enhancing Performance Evaluation Procedures 35
LA13    Employee Overview 33
LA14    Employee Overview 33
  Human Rights
DMA   Ethical Corporate Culture 20
HR1   Ethical Corporate Culture 20
HR2   Expansion of Supplier Management 10
HR3   Ethical Corporate Culture 20
HR4  (No such cases) ---
HR5  (No such cases) ---
HR6  (No such cases) ---
HR7  (No such cases) ---
HR8  (No such cases) ---
HR9  (No such cases) ---
   Society
DMA   Concentration on Digital Opportunities 51
SO1   Investigation and Analysis 59
SO2   Ethical Corporate Culture 20
SO3   Ethical Corporate Culture 20
SO4   Ethical Corporate Culture 20
SO5   Ethical Corporate Culture 20
SO6   (No such cases) ---
SO7   (No such cases) ---SO8   Business Principles 17
  Product Responsibility
DMA   Welcoming the Cloud Age 23
PR1   Reduction of Negative Impacts 28
PR2   Reduction of Negative Impacts 28
PR3   (No such cases) ---
PR4   (No such cases) ---
PR5   Customer Satisfaction Survey 27
PR6    Business Principles 17
PR7    Business Principles 17
PR8    Privacy Protection Measures 28
PR9    Business Principles 17
  Internal Operations
IO1   Concentration on Digital Opportunities 51
IO2   Concentration on Digital Opportunities 51
IO3   Occupational Health and Safety 38
IO4   Reduction of Negative Impacts 28
IO5   Reduction of Negative Impacts 28
IO6   Reduction of Negative Impacts  28
IO7   Reduction of Negative Impacts 28
IO8   Reduction of Negative Impacts 28
 Providing Access
PA1   Social Innovation 53
PA2   Social Innovation 53
PA3   Social Innovation 53
PA4   Social Innovation 53
PA5   Social Innovation 53
PA6   Responsible Communication 29
PA7   Social Innovation 53
PA8   Reduction of Negative Impacts 28
PA9   Reduction of Negative Impacts 28
PA10   Customer Relations Management 26
PA11   Customer Relations Management 26
  Technology Applications
TA1   Green ICT 48
TA2   Green ICT 48
TA3   Green ICT 48
TA4   Green ICT 48
TA5   Green ICT 48