PB 1
PB 1Welcome to the Chunghwa Telecom eighth Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report. This report is published 
in both Chinese and English on a dedicated CSR website. We hope to integrate the advantages of both paper-based 
and internet-based reports to let those who care about us gain a better understanding of our CSR-related efforts and 
performances in 2014.
Reporting Period
This report discloses the company’s CSR management policies, key issues, countermeasures, initiatives and results 
between January 1 and December 31, 2014. However, to ensure complete coverage, parts of the Report include 
descriptions of initiatives and results outside the stated period.
Scope and Coverage
The report covers Chunghwa Telecom and the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation. Combined, they are referred 
to as “Chunghwa Telecom.” Data covered by the report includes financial (Chunghwa Telecom and its 
subsidiaries), environmental, and social performances. In addition, the materiality as indentified in the 
report involved the subsidiaries and is also disclosed to present a full picture of Chunghwa Telecom in the 
performance of CSR and the result along its value chain.
References
This Report is compiled following the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), part of the report involves 
the indicators of specific topics for the telecommunication sector, in that the G4 telecom sector supplement is not yet 
available, the disclosure will be conducted in accordance with the G3.1 version.
Assurance
This Report has been sent to SGS Taiwan Ltd, Taipei Branch, for data confirmation and certification purposes. This 
Report is certified to be in compliance with GRI G4 Comprehensive Option and Accountability Assurance Standard of 
Sustainability AA1000 AS 2008 high level (Type 2).
Feedback
If you have any feedback to share, please do not hesitate to contact us through:
CSR Division, Public Affairs Department, Chunghwa Telecom 
Tseng, Chin-Ming
Address: 21-3, Sec. 1, Hsinyi Road, Taipei, Taiwan 100
Telephone: +886-2-2344-4000
E-mail: chtcsr@cht.com.twEditorial PolicyCSR website: http://www.cht.com.tw/csr/download.html
G4-28,G4-31,G4-33
GRI indicator
More information
Chunghwa Telecom own indicator GRI
CHT2 3 2 3
CONTENT
Editorial Policy
Message from the Chairman
Corporate Overview1
4
6CSR Milestones in 2014
Determining Material Issues and Stakeholders
G4 Index14
20
116
CSR Management 16
Pioneering 
Smart
Service
4243 Sustainable Products 
and Services
Sustainability in
Innovative R&D
Developing Industry 
Transformation
Corporate 
Governance
26
Ethical Business Practices
Proper Control of
Operation Risk
Highest Moral Standard
Transparent Information 
Disclosure
Brand Management
Responsible Supply 
Chain Management27
29
31
33
35
3747
502 3 2 3
A Safe and
Healthy
Workplace
66Digital Inclusion
Social Investment Management
Digital Good Neighbors, 
New Cloud Vision
Create Digital Opportunity101
102
104
Advocacy 
of Social 
Harmony
100
Customer Service and
Information Security
Management
Ensure Service Quality
Marketing Service 
and Training
Ensure Customer 
Satisfaction53Listen to the 
Customers
5267 Protect Employee 
Rights
Human Resource 
Structure
Training and
Development
Training of
Professional Talents 
Occupational Health 
and  Safety
Establishing Happy 
Corporation
Risks and Opportunities
Deriving from Climate Change
Environmental Sustainability 
Management 
GHG Emission Management
Power Management
Targeting on Green Enterprise
Safeguard Our Beautiful Homeland85Create a 
Green
Enterprise
84
92
95
9887
9055
58
6068
72
76
77
801084 5 4 5Chunghwa Telecom has emerged as the first telecommunications service provider to launch a 4G high-
speed online service in Taiwan in 2014. The performance of Chunghwa Telecom has been superb as can 
be seen in the indicators of vision, innovation, finance, and technology. In the face of increasingly fierce 
competition, Chunghwa Telecom continues to sustain its leading position in data communications and 
innovation. At the same time the company places great value on the influence of corporate operations 
on society and the environment which remains one of the most important corporate strategies for 
sustainable development.
Chunghwa Telecom has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainable Index (DJSI) for two consecutive years 
and is one of the top eight sustainable telecommunication service providers in the world. This result was 
not unexpected because Chunghwa Telecom has long realized the importance of sustainable development 
and has been engaged in the management of corporate social responsibility since 2006. Chunghwa 
Telecom engages in a full-range of corporate governance and environmental protection activities and 
also promotes social harmony. With a spirit of “value is a matter of responsibility”, Chunghwa Telecom 
recruits talent, distinctive resources and technologies to nurture an inside out corporate culture of 
sustainability.
Chunghwa Telecom is committed to its stakeholders with transparency, sincerity, and steady sure 
operation. For nine years, Chunghwa Telecom has been rated as the top performer in disclosure. The 
company has a long-term S&P credit rating of “AA”, and short and long-term credit rating of “twAAA/
twA-1+” from Taiwan Ratings. Chunghwa Telecom maintained its leadership position in the industry 
in 2014 and was the first telecommunications service provider to implement second-party audits of 
suppliers in corporate social responsibility to both reinforce communications value chain management 
and exert a positive influence along the industry chain.
To be a “Green Enterprise” in the data communications industry remains a terminal mission of Chunghwa 
Telecom. In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom was the first telecommunications service company conduct Scope 
3 inventory. Chunghwa Telecom will continue expanding the use of the “iEN Intelligent Energy Service” as 
well as the development of other green products and services to assist the government and enterprises 
with their enhancement of the efficient use of energy. Chunghwa Telecom translates its sense of 
responsibility, both internally and externally, into concrete action by a positive response to a low-carbon 
economy.
“Narrow the digital gap for digital opportunity” is an important piece of Chunghwa Telecom philosophy 
for input to society. It clearly conveys the realization that the prevailing use of the Internet is critical Message from the ChairmanG4-14 5 4 5to the improvement of knowledge sharing and social 
transformation. For this reason, Chunghwa Telecom has 
invested about NT$ 800 million to improve the accessibility 
to telecommunication services across Taiwan and the 
offshore islands. In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom completed 
the infrastructure of Wi-Fi and telecommunications services 
at “Smangus”, home of the tribe of god. This move helps 
the aboriginal tribes upgrade and improve their tourist and 
agricultural trade and subsequent economic performance.
For years, Chunghwa Telecom has spared no effort in the 
advocation of the “Digital Good Neighbors” campaign and 
has extended its joint ventures with NGOs, schools and 
artistic and cultural entities by providing hardware and 
software resources in 72 different locations across Taiwan. 
We have enriched the way of life of many communities. 
Our “Youth Training Scheme” events, have fused feelings 
in both the youth and adult communities. More than 2,000 
minutes of documentary footage and data communication 
technology helps convey the warmth and passion of 
mankind everywhere.
4G has rejuvenated Taiwan and the IoT and digital 
convergence has helped to bring in many more  
opportunities and challenges to the industry as a whole. 
Chunghwa Telecom is backed by professional technology 
focused on cross-platform integration services, and that has 
made it possible for us to add many new things to our daily 
lives. Chunghwa Telecom wants to be a close partner of 
the people, and use ICT properly to give more value-added 
smart services to the public. Chunghwa Telecom is also 
sowing the seeds of sustainable development with the view 
that sustainability should spill over into society everywhere.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
6 7 6 7 6 7
6 7 6 7Corporate Overview
Chunghwa Telecom was officially established in 1996 as part of 
corporatization efforts by the government of the Republic of China in 
accordance with the “Three Telecom Laws.” On August 12, 2005, Chunghwa 
Telecom became a privatized company by way of reduced ownership of the 
government to less than 50%.
Our main operation site is in Taiwan, and head office is in 21-3, Sec. 1, Hsinyi 
Road, Taipei, Taiwan. We are the largest integrated telecom carrier in 
Taiwan providing fixed, mobile, and data communication services. With the 
best networking and service quality, we are guaranteed to provide the best 
services to meet consumers’ demand.
6 7
Corporate Overview
Chunghwa Telecom was officially established in 1996 as part of 
corporatization efforts by the government of the Republic of China in 
accordance with the “Three Telecom Laws.” On August 12, 2005, Chunghwa 
Telecom became a privatized company by way of reduced ownership of the 
government to less than 50%.
Our main operation site is in Taiwan, and head office is in 21-3, Sec. 1, Hsinyi 
Road, Taipei, Taiwan. We are the largest integrated telecom carrier in 
Taiwan providing fixed, mobile, and data communication services. With the 
best networking and service quality, we are guaranteed to provide the best 
services to meet consumers’ demand.G4-4~G4-88 9 8 9Corporate 
Planning Business Philosophy 
To cope with the trend of splendid lifestyles and upgrading of business operations set off by the extensive use of 
mobile communication and the internet, we continue to strengthen core competence, and expand the integration of 
telecom networks and information technology through alliances, cooperation, mobile commerce development, internet 
use, and broadband media services, in hopes to provide services to meet the needs of the public and become a business 
partner of the majority of corporations. 
To fulfill CSR, Chunghwa Telecom is dedicated to utilize its core competence, and creating digital opportunity, 
environment sustainability, consumer care and employee care, so as to demonstrate corporate citizenship behavior that 
goes beyond regulatory requirements.
Organizational Chart 
Strategy Committee
Secretariat Board of
DirectorsAudit Committee
Auditing DepartmentCompensation 
Committee
Southern 
Taiwan 
Business Group
BranchesPresident of
Business Group
BranchesNorthern 
Taiwan 
Business GroupPresident of
Business GroupSEVP
Netwoed
Research &
Planning
CommitteeSEVP
Marketing
Information 
Technology
Customer 
ServiceSEVP & CFO
Accounting
Finance
Investment 
Public AffairsSEVP
Human 
Resource
Leagal Affairs
Administration
 & Asset
Supply
Occupational 
Safety & HealthThree Telecom Laws: http://goo.gl/678ya
G4-9
*SEVP:Senior Executive Vice President 
*CFO: Chief Financial Office8 9 8 9With Our Services
We enhance the operational efficiency of corporations. ●
We create a gateway to an enjoyable digital life for people ●
We facilitate industry scale to expand in a good way with our contribution  ●
We facilitate industry scale to expand in a good way with our contribution  ●
GPS Shareholders’ Meeting
President of
TL
Telecommunication 
LaboratoriesPresident of
Business Group
Data
Communications
Business GroupPresident of
Business Group
Enterprise
Business
GroupPresident of
TTI
Telecommunication  
Training Institute
Taichung, 
Kaohsiung BranchPresident of
Business Group
International
Business
Group
Overseas 
Representative
OfficesPresident of
Business Group
Mobile
Business
Group
BranchesThe main business of the branches and investees: http://goo.gl/1qBIh7 (p144~146)
The First 4G Service Provider in Taiwan 
With NT$ 39.07 billion, we have won the right of 35 MHz in bandwidth in the 4G license auction in 2013 which made us the largest 
spectrum telecom carrier in Taiwan. The blocks we acquired include B2 block in the 900MHz frequency band, and the C2 and C5 
blocks for 1800 MHz; while C2 is currently used for our 2G service, C5 block will be used for 4G networks and terminal equipment. 
This new addition will continue from our existing 2G system into a 4G system in the future.
Chunghwa Telecom lead the market by establishing 4G at C5 block, and is the first provider of 4G service launched on May 29, 2014, 
at the same time, we are speeding up to establish 4G base stations, with expected radio coverage reaching population of at least 99% 
in 2015, so as to providing quality 4G mobile communication services.PresidentBoard of Directors
Chairman & CEO10 11 10 11Create Shareholder Value
The penetration and rapid growth of smart mobile devices has shaped the world into continuous development of 
innovative applications to meet the demand. In the midst of a market full of opportunities and challenges, Chunghwa 
Telecom is determined to contribute its full efforts on the deployment of mobile and fixed broadband networks, while 
providing products and services to meet customers’ satisfaction, so as to stabilize its market-leading position and 
demonstrate good business performance.
The consolidated revenue of Chunghwa Telecom decreased 0.6% YoY to NT$ 226.6 billion in 2014, exceeding 
forecast by 99.3%. Whereas the prevailing of smart mobile devices and growth of both value-added revenue and 
sales revenue, not to mention the growth in the revenue of information and communication project, the impact of 
decreasing in the revenue of voice services has become minimal. Net profit attributable to equity holders of the 
parent company is NT$ 38.6 billion and EPS is NT$ 4.98, both have exceeded 107.7% of the financial forecast.
In addition to continuous profitability and financial soundness for a stable operation over the years, we, as an honest 
taxpayer, have made significant and substantial contributions to the country. Despite the challenging business 
environment in the days to come, we are determined to focus on our profession to create maximum profit for our 
shareholders.
Always Ahead
Chunghwa Telecom was the first telecommunication service provider in Taiwan; this move was a milestone for the 
development of the mobile communication and digital convergence industry in Taiwan. 
Chunghwa Telecom has enjoyed the growth of its mobile service customer population. With the state-of-the-art 
infrastructure, innovative businesses such as data communication and cloud service also developed at a stable pace. The 
successful contracting with related enterprises and the government on data communication projects implies the strong 
competitive power of Chunghwa Telecom in this domain. 
“For you, always ahead” is our motto, showing ceaseless effort for driving toward perpetual competitiveness. Chunghwa 
Telecom will continue to launch fast and convenient products and services to assist the industry and society to achieve 
the vision of smart and low carbon development.
Risk There are six 4G service providers in Taiwan, which drove this service into an era of acute competition.
OpportunityThe business opportunity of smart city and Internet of Things (IoT) allowed variety of big data products, which 
will help Chunghwa Telecom in the development and offering related application products and services.
Target Annual growth rate at 3% is the goal for the development of value-added application service.G4-9
Risk and Opportunity
Despite the breakthrough in bandwidth and speed limitation, and much faster speed for accessing the network, 4G will 
trigger keener competition in more application services which in turn brings about risk and opportunity. In responding 
to the rapid changing competition in market, Chunghwa Telecom will continue its effort in innovative research and 
development (annual investment in R&D accounted for more than 1% of the overall revenue), and sustain the broad 
bandwidth feature of 4G so as to create a high quality 4G mobile broadband and digital convergence life.G4-210 11 10 11RevenueRevenue 226,609
Operating cost 
and expenses148,379
DistributionEmployee 
salaries and 
benefits46,622
Dividends paid 
to shareholders18,526
Taxes 7,393
Expenses 
of social 
investment/
donation1,472
RetainedRetained 
economic 
value4,217I ●ntegrated service
Data security service ●
Mobile service ●
Data service ●
International service ●
Diversified integrated  ●
payment and 
collection serviceCorporate 
Market
Customer population: 
11.13 million
Result of Operation: 
Annual growth rate at 4.4%
Customer population: 
5.16 million
Result of Operation: 
Annual growth rate at 31.0%
Customer population: 
1.33 million
Result of Operation: 
Market Share 38.6%Customer population: 
3.12 million
Result of Operation: 
Annual growth rate at 5.6%
Customer population: 
870 thousand
Result of Operation: 
Annual growth rate at 132%FTTx
100Mbps
HiNet/
BroadbandCustomer population:
3.79 million
Result of Operation: 
Annual growth rate at 0.2%Unit: NT$ million
FTTx
Domestic fixed network  ●
service
Domestic leased line  ●
service
Internet and value adding  ●
service
MOD (IPTV) service ●
International fixed  ●
network serviceHousehold 
MarketMobile communication  ●
service
Wi-Fi service ●
International fixed  ●
network service
Personal 
Market
Mobile
Subscriber
Mobile
InternetThree Main Markets and Services 
Economic Performance Products and ServicesLocal
NetworkCustomer population: 11.37 million
Market Share: 94.3%
Long- distance
NetworkTraffic volume: 30.84 billion minutes
Market Share: 80.5%
Broadband
SubscriberCustomer population: 4.54 million
Market Share: 76.7%
MODCustomer population: 1281.26 million
Market Share: 20.4%Other Accounts 1.1%
International Fixed 
Communication 6.8%
Traffic volume: 16.58 million
Market Share: 56% Domestic Fixed Communication 31.8%
Internet 11.5%
Customer population: 4.23 million
Market Share: 68.5%Mobile Communication 48.8%
Customer population: 11.13 million
Market Share: 37.1%
Contribution
of
Business12 13 12 13 12 13
12 13 12 13 12 13
14 15 14 15●	Mobile Business Group was accredited with the ISO 50001 for 
 its sustainability and successful performance in carbon reduction
●	Won the Corporate Sustainability Bronze Award of RobecoSAM
●	Received S&P long term rating of “AA” and Taiwan Ratings long 
 term/ short term rating of “twAAA/ twA-1+”
●	The only enterprise in Taiwan ranked the 384th place on the list of The World’s Top 500 Most 
	 Influential	Brands
●	The “Advocacy of Broadband Upgrade in Rural Area Award” by NCC
●	EARTH System won winning the “EPIF 2014 International Green 
 Classics Awards – Honor Award”
●	Repeat winner of the “Gold Medal Service Award” of Common Wealth Magazine
●	Repeat winner of ”30 Monthly “&”Manager Today” on brandingCSR Milestones in 2014
●	Information disclosure ranking of A++
●	Received Reader's Digest Trusted Brand's Platinum Award – 
 Telecommunication Communications Service
●	Ranked 1st in “Digital Service Benchmark Enterprise”, and 1st 
 place in “Information Channel and Communication Industry”
 in Digital Age.
14 15 14 15●	Ranked among the Top 10 Telecommunication Service Providers of the Corporate Citizen Award of 
 Common Wealth Magazine 
●	Data Security Expert service won the ISLA, hacker contest award, 
 the result of international recognition
●	Selected as component stocks in DJSI- -World Index and DJSI- -
 Emerging Markets Index
●	Winner of the 2014 TAITRONICS in Cloud IoT and Broadband Communications
●	The iEN service won the “Distinguished Company in Energy Technology Service” from Bureau of 
 Energy, MOEA
●	The benchmark telecommunication service providers on the list of “Benchmark Enterprises in 20 
 years” and the most preferred benchmark enterprise of Common Wealth Magazine in 2014 
●	Won the 12th Global Views: Five-Star Service Awards of Global 
 View Magazine, the champion in telecommunication service 
●	Received 1st place in “Best Brand Award” – telecommunication 
 sector issued from Business Today for the 7th consecutive years
●	Won the “2014 Taiwan Corporate Sustainability Award” with 4 
 issues of CSR
●	President Shi Mu-Piao was elected as a fellow to the 15th term of the Chinese Society for Management 
 of Technology; the Telecommunication Laboratories won the “16th Technology Management Award”
16 17 16 17CSR Management
Chunghwa Telecom’s vision is becoming “The Most Valuable and Reliable Information and Communication 
Provider”. On top of continuous innovation in the telecom industry, we stress hard on the long-term impact of 
sustainable development issues. The key to our promotion of CSR is to create a CSR mindset to integrate into 
corporate culture; that way, employees will think CSR, discuss CSR, and implement CSR.
Sustainable Development Strategy  – Create Sustainable Value
We launched the implementation of sustainability management mechanism in a systematic and organizational manner in 
2006, including establishing the CSR committee with members from the board of directors and stipulated sustainable 
policies. We implement sustainable actions from six groups using top-down approach to achieve the concept of “Living 
Water Fertile Ground, Sustainable Green Energy, Prosperous Innovation, Multiplex Coexistence and share Mutual 
Benefits with all.”
Chunghwa Telecom’s sustainable development strategy is utilizing corporation’s unique resources and competence 
to implement sustainable issues such as “Create society coexistence, Digital inclusion, Green ICT product and service, 
Green brand management and Energy conservation and carbon reduction”.
Because of this, Chunghwa Telecom has mapped out and implemented the strategy and management for the realization 
of corporate social responsibility. This will help to control risk, reduce cost, increase brand value more effectively and 
bring about new opportunity for growth, and will create better value for all stakeholders.
Chunghwa Telecom will continue to align with the international standards of sustainability and adopt a much higher 
standard for its code of conduct for voluntary control in business integrity. We equip our employees with the correct 
CSR concept through a comprehensive mechanism, while infusing CSR into daily operations and penetrating into 
corporate culture to create sustainable values for all stakeholders.Trust, responsibility, 
share, growthInnovation, excellence, 
gratefulness, reliability
Shorten digital difference;
implement environmental protection;
caring for the vulnerableCorporate Mission
Team Culture
Social 
Contribution
Customer Relations
Care initiative, penetration
CSR Vision16 17 16 17The Top 8 World Sustainable Telecommunication Service Providers
In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), ”DJSI-World Index” and ”DJSI-Emerging 
Markets Index”, ranked among BT (UK), PT (Portugal), SK Telecom (South Korea) etc., as one of the Top 8 Sustainable 
Telecommunication Service Providers of the World.
Also, Chunghwa Telecom is the only telecommunication service provider of Taiwan included in both categories of DJSI. 
This demonstrated the effort of Chunghwa Telecom in the making CSR part of its corporate culture, and its industrious 
performance of CSR in corporate governance, environmental protection and the society, which manifested in its operation 
performance. It earned the recognition of international investors. 
Furthermore, we gained full scores in “protection of privacy” and “environmental strategy and management system”, and 
scored high mark in “corporate citizen and charity” and “attracting and keeping good people”. All these are the performance 
of Chunghwa Telecom in economic, environmental and social aspects are at the top of international telecommunication 
industry.
SMART – I Management Mechanism
The distinctive Strategy-Management-Action-Response-Target (SMART) CSR management mechanism of Chunghwa 
Telecom shows its response to GRI G4 version in the systematization in management and the compilation and disclosure 
of facts in corporate social responsibility. New indicators were introduced to the 2014 version, which substantively 
presented in the chapters and sections corresponding to relevant GRI index. This is our commitment to international 
standards.
At the end of every year, we activate a review mechanism through feedback, external surveys, and internal evaluations, 
and re-evaluate short, mid, and long term targets while determining the improvement and supplement of relevant 
strategies, managements, measures, responses, and target; in addition, we also incorporate the recommendations and 
responses of the external stakeholders. We believe, the strategic management of CSR will facilitate the sustainable 
operation of promoting CSR.
StrategyDevelopment Strategy and 
Commitment
ManagementManagement Mindset/ 
Mechanism
ActionImportant Project/ Action
ResponseStakeholder request/ Response
TargetFuture Outlook/ Target/ Plan
IndicatorThe GRI and Chunghwa Telecom own indicators Dow Jones Sustainability Index: www.sustainability index.com18CSR Committee
We established “CSR Committee” in 2007 in hopes to promote CSR and environmental sustainability development 
systematically in a keen and forward-looking perspective. As a corporate citizen, we seek to achieve eco-efficiency, 
provide more environmental friendly and efficient telecom services to the consumers.
Chunghwa Telecom’s CSR Policy is approved by the Board of Directors and passed over to be coordinated and 
monitored by the CSR Committee, which in turn, reports to the Board on a regular basis regarding key CSR issues and 
communications with stakeholders. The Board is responsible for the yearly evaluation of CSR.
Representative Lih-Shyng Tsai Chairman of the Board of Directors
CSR Policy Approved by the Board of Directors
ExecutionCSR Secretariat is responsible for planning of policies and actions; Public Affairs is responsible for 
budgeting, educational training, and management of following up and awards measures; Branches and 
affiliates are responsible for promotion and implementation of the related projects
Meeting Frequency Quarterly
Report Approval Submit to president for final approval after reviewed by the managements (Vice Presidents)
CSR Committee Organizational Chart 
Chunghwa Telecom 
Foundation CEO
Corporate
Governance
GroupEmployee Care
GroupConsumer Care
GroupEnvironmental
Sustainability
GroupDigital
Opportunities
GroupCoporate
Volunteerism
GroupMain Department Director Head	Office	Executive	Vice	President
CSR SecretariatChairperson: Chairman of the Board
Vice Chairperson: General ManagerG4-35 ~G4-37,G4-42,G4-44~G4-49CSR Management
19Communication Channel Content
Communication 
within Senior 
ManagementSenior Management MeetingKey CSR issues will be discussed in the senior management meeting every 
year.
Employee ForumChunghwa Telecom Online 
ForumWe have an intra-site for employees to share opinion and give suggestion to 
the company.
TrainingEnvironmental Training We provide at least 4 hours training annually and by hosting ecological tour.
CSR TrainingEvery year we will provide basic CSR training around departments, and invite 
consultant for further courses.
New Employee TrainingWe have 3 days pre-service training, including personnel system, working ●
guidelines, labor relation and etc.
We will send employees to attend specific labor right training courses  ●
outside.
e-LearningWe put relevant courses and information on our e-Learning system to let 
employees learn and download freely.
Performance
AssessmentAdministration Management 
AssessmentWe set energy reduction targets and link with performance bonuses.
Online Test on CoCAll our employees are required to take the “Chunghwa Telecom Code 
of Business Conduct and CoC Test” each year 
Reporting MechanismOnce employee is found to violate corporate regulations, it will affect his/her 
performance bonuses.
OthersCSR Report Workshop Internal training on the new trend of preparing reports at any time.
Dedicated CSR Multimedia 
WebpageTo fit stakeholders’ communication habits nowadays, we set a dedicated 
CSR multimedia webpage to be one of our communication ways with our 
stakeholders.Internalization of Corporate Social Responsibility 
To ensure that all employees understand the spirit of CSR, we have established a diversity of channels for 
communications and education of related topics. This is integrated with a performance evaluation that helps to 
translate the concept of CSR into action and is practiced in routine operation.20
Process for Determining Material Issues
CSR Secretariat is 
responsible for collecting 
the materials to 
support the meeting 
of sustainability report 
including international 
guidelines, sustainability 
rating survey, international 
benchmark, etc.We assemble an 
assessment team 
consisting of members 
from relative 
departments to identify 
the material issues 
matrix on the ground 
of internal and external 
information.Based on internal consideration, industry 
status, industry chain practice, and the 
recommendations of stakeholders, we asked 
CSR	members	to	confirm	the	potential	impact	
of the material issues within and outside the 
organization, in other words, the positive, 
negative, or potential impact on the economy, 
environment, and society, and later invite key 
parties within and outside the organization to 
conduct discussion and disclosure of the impact. 
Boundaries of Material Issues
Material IssuesWithin the Organization Outside the Organization
CHTHonghwa 
(Subsidiary)Consumer Supplier Competitor CommunityShareholder/
Investor
Notes to The FeeRate for Products and Services ˇ ˇ
EM	wave	Influence	on	Health	and	Safety ˇ ˇ
Protection of Customer Information ˇ ˇ
Stock Dividend ˇ ˇ
Establishment of Accessible Service ˇ ˇ
Protection of Labor Right ˇ ˇ
Employee Remuneration and 
Developmentˇ ˇ
Business integrity ˇ
Harmony in Labor-management Relation ˇ ˇ ˇ
Responsible Marketing and Sale ˇ ˇ ˇ
Supply Chain Management ˇ ˇ
Innovative Products and Services ˇ ˇ ˇ
Energy Consumption and Carbon Emission ˇ ˇ
Digital Inclusion ˇ ˇ ˇDetermining Material Issues and Stakeholders
In order to facilitate Chunghwa Telecom to strengthen the deepening of mobile content and improve the quality of disclosure, 
we are hoping to bring all stakeholders who pay close attention to the telecom sector and the sustainable development of 
Chunghwa Telecom to focus on the issues Chunghwa Telecom is interested in, actively involved in, and influential in the industry.
To identify, first of all, we have used the issues and principles recommended by various international sustainability 
standards and guidelines (Global Compact, GRI G4, and ISO 26000) and the surveys (such as Dow Jones Sustainability 
Indices and Carbon Disclosure Project) of the major international sustainability rating agencies as the foundation to 
identify issues, after that, core business operation of Chunghwa Telecom and recommendation by external stakeholders 
are taken into consideration and discussed in the sustainability reporting meeting.G4-18 ~G4-21CSR Management
21
2014 Material Issue Matrix
●	Solid waste 
●	Water consumption ●	Responsible investment
 strategy●	Complete training ●	Job safety and health ●	Responsible marketing and sale
●	Supply chain management
●	Innovative products and services
●	Energy consumption and carbon emission
●	Digital inclusion●	Notes to the fee rate for products and
 services
●	EM	wave	influence	on	health	and	safety	
●	Protection of customer information
●	Stock Dividend 
●	Establishment of accessible service●	Protection of labor right
●	Employee remuneration and development
●	Business integrity
●	Harmony in labor-management relation
Coexistence with Stakeholders
Since the first CSR report in 2007, Chunghwa Telecom had been enhancing interaction by inviting stakeholders to 
meetings with relevant departmental managers. There are third parties that review our CSR reports to ensure their 
reliability and accuracy.
Identification of key stakeholders and issues is the main focus of implementing CSR. By preparing the conference of CSR 
reports, we invite members from all departments to exchange the issues relate to current key stakeholders and their 
concerns, upon reaching mutual understanding, the result is incorporated into a table which in turn is regarded as the 
important reference for preparing the disclosure in the report.
In the process of promoting CSR activities or information disclosure, we consult the opinion and recommendation of 
the internal and external stakeholders, relevant important mechanism including:  
CSR report “consultation meeting with external professionals”.  ●
Invite external professionals to “CSR Conference” and host relevant forums on the irregular basis. ●
Host “Supplier CSR Meeting” on the annual basis. ●
Pioneering “CSR video “to record the implementation of CSR actions on the regular basis, and collect internal and  ●
external feedback for further improvement.
Designate specialist for CRS and foundation. ●High
High
Influence on Stakeholder Assessments and Decisions
Low Significance of Economic, Environmental, and Social ImpactsCSR video: http://www.cht.com.tw/portal/csr22Material Issues Meaning to Chunghwa Telecom GRI Aspect DMA
Business 
integrityChunghwa Telecom holds that honesty and integrity is the cornerstone for corporate social responsibility. 
In practice, Chunghwa Telecom will adopt the highest moral standard in business operation and demands 
all employees to duly observe the Code of Ethics and Responsibility in commercial behavior.Marketing Communications ●
Anti-competitive Behavior ●p.33
Harmony in
Labor-management 
RelationEmployees are critical for sustainable corporate development. Labor-management relation in harmony 
constitutes a positive work environment for employees, which is beneficial for the operation and 
development of Chunghwa Telecom.Labor/ Management Relations ● p.70
Responsible 
Marketing and 
SaleFor upgrading the quality of business practice and marketing, and earning the trust of the consumers with 
the company, Chunghwa Telecom has instituted a “Code of Conduct in Marketing” to keep marketing and 
sales on track and in compliance with the regulations and requirements of the competent authority.Marketing Communications ●
Anti-competitive Behavior ●
Compliance ●p.34
Supply Chain 
Management Chunghwa Telecom makes a sizable volume of purchases from a large number of suppliers every year. 
Chunghwa Telecom is influential to make these suppliers perform their corporate social responsibility as 
well and create greater value for society.Procurement Practices ● p.38
Innovative 
Products and 
ServicesFor achieving the goal of “give the customer simplicity and leave the complication to Chunghwa Telecom”, 
Chunghwa Telecom focuses on innovative service, fundamental core technologies, and advanced research, 
and makes positive effort to develop convenient and practical products and services.Customer Health and Safety ●
Products and Services ●p.47
Energy 
Consumption 
and Carbon 
EmissionChunghwa Telecom is dedicated to sustainable development into a “green enterprise” and wishes to 
play an even more active role in the fields of energy and climatic change. Through the upgrade of energy 
efficiency and the development of environmental friendly products and services in best effort, Chunghwa 
Telecom starts from its core competence to guide the development of low carbon industry.Energy ●
Emissions ●p.90
Digital InclusionChunghwa Telecom wishes to create a barrier-free environment for technology and information through 
communication technology so that all people are benefited from digital technology irrespective of age, 
social status, geographic location, and education. Local Communities ●
Products and Services ●p.103Meaning to 
Chunghwa 
TelecomAs shareholders/investors are the 
holders of Chunghwa Telecom, we 
must be accountable to them.Employees are critical in sustainable 
development and they are the driving 
force for sustained growth.Only when customers prefer the products 
and services of Chunghwa Telecom could 
we have value for existence.The huge product and service 
chain of Chunghwa Telecom 
relies on the stable support of 
the suppliers.We wish to feed back to society 
with its professional standing in 
telecommunication and create a better 
future.They are good friends and teachers for us in 
sustainable development.Our products and services and related 
marketing behaviors are subject to audits by 
the competent authority.We wish to engage in fair competition in the 
industry for a healthy development of the 
industry.
Communication
ChannelStockholder hotline, IR Website, 
Results call, Roadshowe-mail, Telephone calls, Online forum, 
Labor-employer meetingService hotline, Customer Service center e-mail, Hotline, CSR Supplier 
Social Evente-mail, Hotline, Stakeholder conference E-mail, Hotline, Meeting, Press release Official document, Meeting, e-mail, 
Telephone calls, VisitOfficial document, Meeting
Communication 
FrequencyImmediately Immediately Immediately 4~5 times per month Immediately Immediately Immediately 1~2 times per year
Material Issues Meaning to Chunghwa Telecom GRI Aspect DMA
Notes to the 
Fee Rate for 
Products and 
ServicesProvide an accurate information on products and services is the way to allow the customers to correctly and 
quickly search their solutions will be critical for maintaining a professional corporate image in good standing 
and also service quality.Product and Service Labeling ●
Marketing Communication ●p.53
EM Wave 
Influence	on	
Health and 
SafetyWe strictly complies with the safety standard set forth by the competent authority by using equipment 
conforming to safety requirements for the installation of related telecommunication system in consideration of 
the anxiety of the public.Customer Health and Safety ●
Product and Service Labeling ●p.67
Protection 
of Customer 
InformationWe seek to reinforce the protection of consumer information through various processes and system design 
so as to prevent the disclosure of customer information or the undue viewing of the information system for 
consumer data by customer service personnel.Customer Privacy ●
Marketing Communications ●p.54
Stock DividendWe take the distribution of dividends to shareholders as the most direct and pragmatic means for conveying 
the message to stakeholders on its operation performance of the year.Economic Performance ● p.10
Establishment 
of Accessible 
ServiceWe believe all people are entitled the right to a fundamental means of communications. For this reason, we 
entered the rural areas to provide data communication service regardless of the cost.Local Communities ● p.108
Protection of 
Labor RightWe are committed to the “the peace of mind of employees” and thereby respects every employee. We are 
also the only telecommunication service provider in Taiwan that has established a labor union and entered into 
agreement with the labor union.Non-discrimination ●
Training and Education ●
Freedom of Association and   ●
Collective Bargaining
Market Presence ●p.70
Employee 
Remuneration 
and 
DevelopmentChunghwa Telecom takes its employees as a vital asset and partners for cooperation. We also spare no effort in 
setting up a viable system so that employees can showcase their strengths.Market Presence  ●
Employment ●p.67Note to Important Topics in 2014
1
2
3
4
5
6
74 6
7
911 1
2
3
12Shareholder/
InvestorSuppliers Employee Consumer
Material AspectG4-24 ~G4-27CSR Management
23Material Issues Meaning to Chunghwa Telecom GRI Aspect DMA
Business 
integrityChunghwa Telecom holds that honesty and integrity is the cornerstone for corporate social responsibility. 
In practice, Chunghwa Telecom will adopt the highest moral standard in business operation and demands 
all employees to duly observe the Code of Ethics and Responsibility in commercial behavior.Marketing Communications ●
Anti-competitive Behavior ●p.33
Harmony in
Labor-management 
RelationEmployees are critical for sustainable corporate development. Labor-management relation in harmony 
constitutes a positive work environment for employees, which is beneficial for the operation and 
development of Chunghwa Telecom.Labor/ Management Relations ● p.70
Responsible 
Marketing and 
SaleFor upgrading the quality of business practice and marketing, and earning the trust of the consumers with 
the company, Chunghwa Telecom has instituted a “Code of Conduct in Marketing” to keep marketing and 
sales on track and in compliance with the regulations and requirements of the competent authority.Marketing Communications ●
Anti-competitive Behavior ●
Compliance ●p.34
Supply Chain 
Management Chunghwa Telecom makes a sizable volume of purchases from a large number of suppliers every year. 
Chunghwa Telecom is influential to make these suppliers perform their corporate social responsibility as 
well and create greater value for society.Procurement Practices ● p.38
Innovative 
Products and 
ServicesFor achieving the goal of “give the customer simplicity and leave the complication to Chunghwa Telecom”, 
Chunghwa Telecom focuses on innovative service, fundamental core technologies, and advanced research, 
and makes positive effort to develop convenient and practical products and services.Customer Health and Safety ●
Products and Services ●p.47
Energy 
Consumption 
and Carbon 
EmissionChunghwa Telecom is dedicated to sustainable development into a “green enterprise” and wishes to 
play an even more active role in the fields of energy and climatic change. Through the upgrade of energy 
efficiency and the development of environmental friendly products and services in best effort, Chunghwa 
Telecom starts from its core competence to guide the development of low carbon industry.Energy ●
Emissions ●p.90
Digital InclusionChunghwa Telecom wishes to create a barrier-free environment for technology and information through 
communication technology so that all people are benefited from digital technology irrespective of age, 
social status, geographic location, and education. Local Communities ●
Products and Services ●p.103Meaning to 
Chunghwa 
TelecomAs shareholders/investors are the 
holders of Chunghwa Telecom, we 
must be accountable to them.Employees are critical in sustainable 
development and they are the driving 
force for sustained growth.Only when customers prefer the products 
and services of Chunghwa Telecom could 
we have value for existence.The huge product and service 
chain of Chunghwa Telecom 
relies on the stable support of 
the suppliers.We wish to feed back to society 
with its professional standing in 
telecommunication and create a better 
future.They are good friends and teachers for us in 
sustainable development.Our products and services and related 
marketing behaviors are subject to audits by 
the competent authority.We wish to engage in fair competition in the 
industry for a healthy development of the 
industry.
Communication
ChannelStockholder hotline, IR Website, 
Results call, Roadshowe-mail, Telephone calls, Online forum, 
Labor-employer meetingService hotline, Customer Service center e-mail, Hotline, CSR Supplier 
Social Evente-mail, Hotline, Stakeholder conference E-mail, Hotline, Meeting, Press release Official document, Meeting, e-mail, 
Telephone calls, VisitOfficial document, Meeting
Communication 
FrequencyImmediately Immediately Immediately 4~5 times per month Immediately Immediately Immediately 1~2 times per year
8
9
10
11
12
1414
13135 8 8
9
1210Community/
NPOMedia/
Rating AgenciesCompetitor Supervision 
Organization
10
Material Issues Meaning to Chunghwa Telecom GRI Aspect DMA
Notes to the 
Fee Rate for 
Products and 
ServicesProvide an accurate information on products and services is the way to allow the customers to correctly and 
quickly search their solutions will be critical for maintaining a professional corporate image in good standing 
and also service quality.Product and Service Labeling ●
Marketing Communication ●p.53
EM Wave 
Influence	on	
Health and 
SafetyWe strictly complies with the safety standard set forth by the competent authority by using equipment 
conforming to safety requirements for the installation of related telecommunication system in consideration of 
the anxiety of the public.Customer Health and Safety ●
Product and Service Labeling ●p.67
Protection 
of Customer 
InformationWe seek to reinforce the protection of consumer information through various processes and system design 
so as to prevent the disclosure of customer information or the undue viewing of the information system for 
consumer data by customer service personnel.Customer Privacy ●
Marketing Communications ●p.54
Stock DividendWe take the distribution of dividends to shareholders as the most direct and pragmatic means for conveying 
the message to stakeholders on its operation performance of the year.Economic Performance ● p.10
Establishment 
of Accessible 
ServiceWe believe all people are entitled the right to a fundamental means of communications. For this reason, we 
entered the rural areas to provide data communication service regardless of the cost.Local Communities ● p.108
Protection of 
Labor RightWe are committed to the “the peace of mind of employees” and thereby respects every employee. We are 
also the only telecommunication service provider in Taiwan that has established a labor union and entered into 
agreement with the labor union.Non-discrimination ●
Training and Education ●
Freedom of Association and   ●
Collective Bargaining
Market Presence ●p.70
Employee 
Remuneration 
and 
DevelopmentChunghwa Telecom takes its employees as a vital asset and partners for cooperation. We also spare no effort in 
setting up a viable system so that employees can showcase their strengths.Market Presence  ●
Employment ●p.6724Sustainable Development Objective 
Confronted by the challenges of telecom operation and a rapidly changing market, Chunghwa Telecom aims to develop 
business operations based on “Innovation, Broadband, Value-added, Integration, Principle-protected, and Touching 
service” to improve business performance, increase sustainable values of shareholders and the Company.
We will continue to abide by the principle of corporate governance, strengthen social care and environmental 
protection, implement corporate social responsibility and capitalize on technology and management to improve 
employees’ expertise and the Company’s business performance. It is believed that these efforts will equip us with the 
capability to respond to the everchanging environment, and continue to create values to respond to the support of the 
consumers, shareholders and employees, thereby achieving sustainable operations.
Facilitate Positive Business Evolution through Action, Broadband, Value-added 
and ICT Integration Service
Introduce new broadband products, expand major business of the corporate customers and increase business capacity.  ●
Create competitive advantage through ICT integration services. ●
Develop Emerging Service Opportunity Such as Cloud and IOT (Internet of 
Things), Work with Partners to Generate Best Strategies
Take the initiative to integrate cloud and IOT industry to stimulate market needs.  ●
Develop emerging applications, cost saving and strengthen operational efficiency. ●
Continue to Strengthen the Application of Internet Facility and Information 
Technology to Support Business Transformation and Growth
Internet upgrade and integration. ●
Utilize information technology to enhance operational efficiency, support new business and intensify information security.  ●
Strengthen Resource Utilization and Management Mechanism to Improve the 
Efficiency	of	Resources
Centralized planning, utilization and management of resources, control operation cost and expense.  ●
Promote the revitalization and utilization of non-operating assets to enhance asset value. ●
Develop Overseas ICT Market to Explore new Epportunities
Evaluate target market’s development criteria and select suitable products for overseas promotion.   ●
Plan business model to facilitate market expansion. ●
Sharpen the Unique Advantage of the Subsidiaries to Enhance the Company’s 
Competitiveness
Intensify company cooperation to enhance the advantages of company operation.  ●
Deepen expertise of the subsidiaries to bring out competitive advantage. ●
Infuse Telecom Expertise Into Corporate Social Responsibility Issues to
Implement the Commitment of Corporate Citizenship
 Initiate digital rainforest project to facilitate the innovation of ICT application through business depth. ●
Utilize expertise to facilitate the reduction of digital differences and environmental protection, and narrow urban-rural ●
gap to enhance social well-being.CSR Management
25Responses to Critical Issues in 2014
Issue #1: The Dilemma of Coverage of the Base Stations
Service providers are compelled to provide good quality voice transmission and fast mobile connection to the Internet. 
However, some citizens still have concern about electromagnetic wave. As such, people tend to request for the removal of 
base stations already installed as “electromagnetic waves will jeopardize our health” even though the landlord have agreed 
with the installation.
The right cognition about electromagnetic wave should be:
The electromagnetic wave emitted from the base station is non-ionizing radiation and the electromagnetic particle entails   ●
very low energy. It will not give out heat or cause damage to the cell molecules of organism. As such, it will not affect the 
health of human beings.
The measurement of the electromagnetic wave in the environment is in conformity to the standard of the International  ●
Commission on Non-ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP)”, which must be lower than 0.45 μW/cm2 at 900MHz and must 
be lower than 0.9μW/cm2 at 1,800MHz.
Due to the habit of using mobile phones, the public has been exposed to the radio frequency of the mobile phones, which is    ●
a thousand times more than the waves emitted from a base station.
If people are still nervous about the electromagnetic waves in the area nearby their homes, they may call 0800-580-010 for a 
free measurement service of electromagnetic wave from the base station.
Issue #2: Renewable Energy
From 2008 onward, Chunghwa Telecom has pursued its carbon reduction policy and paid close attention to the renewable energy 
policy of Taiwan in ceaseless effort and we hope that  government can pass applicable laws so that we can take more actions.
The sustained growth of business over the last few years compelled Chunghwa Telecom to commits further efforts to control 
related use of energy so that greenhouse gas emissions can be contained as much as possible. For newly constructed IDC data 
center, Chunghwa Telecom has set the standard for electric power consumption at the data center, which targeted at PUE 
value of less than 1.5.
The more important thing is that Chunghwa Telecom will continue to make the best use of ICT technology to assist other 
enterprises and industries in energy saving and carbon reduction. For example, the “Low Carbon Management Cloud Union” 
used iEN intelligent energy service developed by Chunghwa Telecom in cooperation with 500 enterprises for an anticipated 
reduction of power consumption by 280 million KWh. 
*Note:  PUE value is the standard for calculating the efficiency of power consumption at the data center. Low PUE value 
 represents a low level of power consumption for the air-conditioning of the machine room.
Issue #3: Response to the protest of dispatched personnel  
Honghwa International Corp (hereinafter, “Honghwa”) is a subsidiary of Chunghwa Telecom. Honghwa is a contractor of human 
resources support for the CHT shop locations and customer service. It also contracts for work from other enterprises. All Honghwa 
employees are full-time personnel remunerated by salaries and bonuses, and the career development in Honghwa is promising.
Further to the appointment of the personnel previously dispatched as full-time employees of Honghwa, Chunghwa Telecom 
also wrote to relevant contractors in 2014 reiterating the contracting of work in customer service and protecting the rights 
and privileges of all employees for transfer of duties or rotation of job in accordance with the employment contract, Labor 
Standards Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act, Gender Equality in Employment Act, and other applicable legal rules.
Honghwa is oriented towards autonomous management and promoted their own shop mangers, customer network team    ●
leaders, customer modes of human resources management. Honghwa is oriented towards autonomous management and 
promoted their own shop mangers, service supervisors from their own staff so that the employees can be nurtured in a 
positive environment for career development with benign competition. This helps to upgrade the overall production value.
Honghwa has consulted with its labor union on group contracts. This will help to avoid disputes and enhance labor-management ●
cooperation. Electromagnetic wave: http://www.emfsite.org.tw/26 27 26 27
StrategyIntroduce the highest moral standard in business operations to review all operation risks 
and to ensure business continuity.
ManagementThe Chunghwa Telecom Board of Directors is the supreme body for corporate governance.
ActionAdvocacy of suppliers CSR second party audit.
ResponsePlanned to provide CSR training programs for suppliers in 2015  so as to make suppliers 
implement CSR.
Target
Indicator
Corporate Governance
Ratio of independent directors 38%
Ratio of domestic purchase 76%
Number of suppliers audited: 211  by questionnaires, 63 by on-site visit, and 10 
by second party auditGRICHT
CHTContinue to communicate with the suppliers of the importance in 
sustainable corporate development.
By 2020 , the CSR second party audit of critical suppliers will account for 90% .Short-term
Long-term26 27 26 27Ethical Business Practices
The Chunghwa Telecom Board of Directors is the highest governance body, 
with the Chairman also acting as the Chief Executive Officer. The Board of 
Directors is responsible for appointing and nominating high level managers, 
as well as formulating company corporate social responsibility, corporate 
citizenship, and sustainable development strategies. The Board has 13 
directors that include 5 independent directors. To date, there are 4 female 
directors amongst 13 directors. Director’s period of office is three years 
(June 25, 2013~June 24, 2016), to ensure the governance’s independence and 
stakeholders’ perspectives, 5 independent directors are included while an 
Auditing Committee is designated to replace the supervisor.
Chunghwa Telecom’s independent director and external director provide 
expertise based on their respective area of practice and professionalism, to 
assist the Board of Directors to make decisions as to benefit the company 
and the shareholders. To prevent financial losses from third party litigation 
for directors and supervisors, we have purchased indemnity insurance for 
Directors and Supervisors.
To improve monitor functions and strengthen the management functions, 
three functional committees are established under the supervision of the 
Board:
Consisting of 5 independent directors, their main duty is the selection or 
dismissal of CPA, determine CPA’s compensation, review and discuss quarterly/
semiyearly/ annual financial report, review internal control system and revise as 
well as review the appropriateness of internal control statement.
Consisting of 5-7 board members, who are responsible for budgeting, increase/decrease 
of capital, increase/decrease of reinvestment and withdrawal of investment, acquire or 
surrender licenses, restructuring, mid-long term development plan and other important 
issues. A review meeting is convened and submits resolution to the Board of Directors for 
final approval.
Consisting of 3 independent directors, responsible for evaluation of performance of directors and managers, 
and determine the appropriate wage compensation policies, systems, standards and structures.
Audit 
CommitteeStrategy 
CommitteeCompensation 
CommitteeMembers of the Board of Directors: http://goo.gl/1qBIh7  (p14~17)
Education of the Board of Directors: http://goo.gl/1qBIh7  (p63~64)
G4-34,G4-38 ~G4-40,G4-51
Corporate Governance28Avoidance	of	the	Conflict	of	Interest
Chunghwa Telecom’s director is responsible for the election of Chief Executive Officer and Directors, in that, a 
nomination system is adopted based on relevant provisions and articles of Securities & Exchange Act, which candidates 
are nominated by directors and shareholders with qualified shareholding, and director’s nomination and review is 
conducted accordingly. We have adopted the following control measures to prevent conflict of interests.
Directors and all signed Consent to Act as Director, announced that they follow the section 23 of Company Act.  ●
All directors signed Statement to show that they clearly knew the content of Section 206 of Company Act. ●
Section 17 of Rules of procedure of board of director clearly defines the things that directors should recuse himself with. ●
Thanks to the directors’ high ethical standards and self-disciple, in the operation of comprehensive mechanism, no 
conflict of interest has occurred since the Board of Directors is established. The Board has resolved to approve total 
of 50 articles of “Code of Corporate Governance for Chunghwa Telecom”, while all departments are required to 
implement the Code of Conduct, the secretariat also evaluates on a regular basis.
Encourage Shareholders to Participate in Corporate Governance
For the past two years, Chunghwa Telecom has conducted changes and revisions on a number of systems and measures 
based on a corporate governance mindset, including  e-voting, voting by poll and disclosing the meeting resolutions on 
the Company’s website; with diversified voting channels, shareholders are able to exercise their rights in an efficient 
manner and corporate governance effectiveness is then enhanced.
As of April 27, 2015
Government 38.43%
Financial Institutions 24.18%Foreign Institutions and Individuals 16.86%
Other Institutions 2.59%Individuals 17.94%
Shareholder 
StructureCode of Corporate Governance: http://www.cht.com.tw/aboutus/cog.html
G4-40,G4-41
G4-7
Comply with Global Compact
We are voluntary aligned with the UN Global Compact. We respect and maintain international recognized human rights 
principles and refrain from participating with any actions to disregard and violate human rights. In the perspective of 
labour principle, we support freedom of association, recognize labours’ rights to collective negotiation, eliminate all 
forms of compulsory labour and child abuse, while restricting any hiring discrimination.
We support international recognized human rights conventions, such as the core value of Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and International Labour Organization adopted by the United Nations, prohibit any form of discrimination 
and compulsory labour and child labour. To respond to the domestic legalization of International Covenant on Civil and 
Political Rights and International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights adopted by the United Nations, we 
reinforce the raising of human rights awareness to allow stakeholders to be respected and treated fairly.G4-1529Corporate Governance
Proper Control of Operation Risk
To ensure the sound operation of the company and not be affected by the external environment and internal operation, 
Chunghwa Telecom stresses on the management of operational risk, and has formulated the “Chunghwa Telecom Risk 
Management Regulations” as the guidance for all employees. The authority responsible for risk and crisis management is 
the President, who reports to the Board on the regular basis, to ensure all operational risks are identified and managed 
so as to protect the rights and interests of all stakeholders.
The Board of Chunghwa Telecom approved in 2006 the “Chunghwa Telecom Risk Management Regulations” clearly 
defines risk management strategy and framework, management procedure and departmental responsibilities, besides 
conducting risk management accordingly, risk management platform, systematic recording and follow up management 
is utilized to manage mid-long development plan, annual operating plan, significant event, additional projects and 
business execution report, to make certain that all possible risks are under control.
Event 
Identification
Awareness 
Built Up
Target 
Setting
Risk 
Response
Risk 
Analysis
Risk 
Evaluation
Risk 
Monitoring
Control 
Operation
Information
and 
CommunicationThe Scope of Chunghwa Telecom Risk Management Regulations
Risk Management Expense 
 Unit: Million NTD
3,206 2012
3,384 2013
3,441 2014We have “Risk Maps” for risk assessment tools to evaluate regulatory risks, internet maintenance risk, market 
competition risk and financial operation risk; at the same time, we conduct sensitivity analyses and stress tests for the 
company’s major business operations to minimize possible losses through risk absorption, risk transfer, risk reduction 
and risk avoidance.G4-2,G4-1430Risk Management for Climate Change
Global climate is the significant challenge confronted by human race in this century. For the people in Taiwan, the most 
serious challenge of climate change is short-time heavy rainfall, and the rise of temperature and sea level, in the long 
run, may affect the operation of telecom facilities and manpower scheduling. The manpower and materials used to 
repair the damages, backup power increased for power failure and compensation to consumers may largely increase 
our operating cost. Not to mention if any infectious diseases caused by climate change, Chunghwa Telecom’s daily 
operation and services will be drastically impacted with over 20,000 employees across Taiwan.
In consideration of the climate change risk, Chunghwa Telecom has officially included “Climate Change Issue” factors 
into the evaluation system of “Performance and Risk Management”, adding significant risk into the Group’s annual 
business planning and schedule disaster budgeting, while conducting objective management and performance 
evaluation to monitor its effectiveness.
For the business model of the ICT industry, we introduced risk adaption strategy to respond to climate change, 
enhanced carbon management measures, developed energy conservation and carbon emission reduction as well as 
environmental protection measures to reduce greenhouse gas emission and risk for ICT industry; and in hope, with our 
effort, to expand our influence over the society overall on a positive manner.
Action Program in Response to Climate Change
In order to manage risks caused by climate change, we completed the “Chunghwa Telecom Environmental Protection Energy 
Conservation & Carbon Reduction Strategic Action,” and formulated priorities, improvement of disaster resilience, ensure 
clear communications, and the safety of overall communications network.
Reinforcement of flood resistance plan at the data center:
Installation of water gate and flood prevention devices. ●
Introduction of underwater pumps in basement levels for rapid displacement of water trapped in the basement. ●
The ventilation opening of underground oil tank moved further  ●
up above ground level and introduction of valve to the inlet of oil 
refuel to prevent flooding of the underground oil tank.
Establish relevant prevention measures in vent line, entry of  ●
underground tunnel, entry of high tension cable, lanes, etc.
Improvement plans for telecom equipment:
Move basement equipment: Move diesel generators and AC distribution  ●
equipment to the 1st floor and install DC equipment to above 2nd floor.
Prepare mobile generators and pumps.  ●
Enhance generator configurations in remote equipment room  ● and  
increase oil storage tank capacity.
Amplify batter capacity: When natural disaster struck and caused  ●
power outage, backup battery can be maintained up to72 hours (3 
hours in normal facility) to support the remote areas, when necessary, 
SMR capacity can be enlarged.
31Corporate Governance
Highest Moral Standard
We have established the “Chunghwa Telecom Code of Conduct” is formulated as the basic guideline for employees’ 
ethical standard while engaging commercial activities so as to have all employees perform business activities at the 
highest moral standard. To create a healthy working environment, we have a reporting hotline to encourage employees 
to voice their opinions in a safe and confidential manner.
This Code of Conduct is included in the training program of new employees, not only it is re-examined annually, it is 
used to evaluate employees performance, to ensure that all employees understand and will be put into practice.
The principle of Chunghwa Telecom Code of Conduct includes:
To strengthen determination and commitment, specific company regulations and external documents are clearly  ●
announced for integrity management policy and its implement.
To ensure the implementation of integrity management, the company should establish an effective accounting  ●
system and internal control system. Internal auditor should regularly confirm compliance status. 
Avoid transactions with those who have dishonesty records in order to conduct commercial activities under fairness  ●
and transparency.
Prohibit bribery, accept of bribes, provide illegal political contributions, improper charitable donations, sponsor  ●
unreasonable gifts and hospitality, or other improper benefits.
The board of directors should urge the company to prevent dishonesty and ensure to implement policy through  ●
dedicated department.
To implement integrity management, all Chunghwa people should conduct business by regulations so as to prevent  ●
dishonesty.
Clearly specify a conflict of interest avoidance policy for board members, supervisors, and managers. ●
To ensure the implementation of integrity management, the company should establish an effective accounting  ●
system and internal control system. Internal auditor should regularly confirm compliance status.
To implement the promotion of integrity management, clearly specify that the company should regularly hold  ●
education and training, and establish an expedient rewards and disciplinary system. 
Clearly specify that the company should strengthen the fulfillment of integrity management information disclosure. ●Code of Ethics: http://goo.gl/bLTJIH
Ethical Corporate Management: http://goo.gl/Q2yB4R
G4-5632
Corruption Prevention
To establish a corporate culture of ethical management, we have formulated “Ethical Corporate Management Best 
Practice Principle” and “Procedures for Ethical Management and Guidelines for Conduct” to a sound operation. In 
addition to the internet and intranet, all employees are required to login to the web to review the “Procedures for 
Ethical Management and Guidelines for Conduct” and take the test every year. This will help ensure ethical code and the 
culture of business integrity are extensively advocated and rooted. Other than those who were not available during the 
testing period, all other employees have participated in the test.
Additionally, the “Chunghwa Telecom Employee Review Guidelines” and “Chunghwa Telecom Reward and Discipline 
Standard” are published to evaluate all employees, who are also confirmed to thoroughly understand and followed. 
We have received 85 cases of complaints in 2014 and all have been settled. Of all these cases, 47 were leaking of 
customer information and 38 were related to discipline. The result of investigations led to the conclusion that there 
was 1 violation against confidentiality regulations, and 8 misconducts or violations against company regulations, total 
number were 15 persons.
If the findings validated the accusation, appropriate action is taken depending on the severity, including verbal warning, 
reprimand, demerit point, and minor demerit point and transfer from the original job position, major demerit point, 
degradation and disciplinary action at level I. The cases will be taken as case studies for training to correct possible 
misconduct of the employees to comply with applicable rules and regulations, maintaining company discipline, and 
improvement of corporate image, and protection of the rights and privileges of the shareholders.
Obey International Telecommunication Laws and Human Rights Duties
The International Telecommunication Union held the World Congress on Information Technology (WCIT) in Dubai 
near the end of 2012. The conference set an International Telecommunication Regulations to ensure there is a general 
rule for free circulation of global information, and add new contents, such as “transparency of competing and fees for 
mobile roaming”, “Provide convenient access to telecommunication service for the disadvantaged”, “Protection for the 
freedom of speech”. As our membership, we commit to follow the regulation and put into practice to spread it.
Tax Policy
Chunghwa Telecom is committed to be an honest taxpayer with high quality compliance in taxation as a core value:
Comply with the tax code currently in force for accurate calculation and payment of applicable taxes. ●
Quick evaluation on the effect and response to the change in relevant tax laws. ●
Disclose of taxation information in the annual reports in favor of stakeholders for transparency of information.  ●
Maintain sincere communication with taxation authorities with an open mind. ●G4-1533Corporate Governance
Transparent Information Disclosure
With integrity, responsibility, and a trustworthy spirit, Chunghwa Telecom is committed to reduce the information asymmetry 
between business management and external stakeholders and establish diversified information transparency, enhance the 
communication with the stakeholders, and improve the efficiency, quality, balance and credibility of information disclosure.
To facilitate stakeholders’ understanding of the company’s latest information, we disclose information through corporate 
website, Market Observation Post System, annual report, CSR report, press conference and investor conference.
Chunghwa Telecom’s contribution and effort has been honored by receiving top 10 awards in the “Information 
Disclosure Ranking of Taiwan Company”. This is the 9th consecutive year that Chunghwa Telecom receives this honor 
since Securities and Futures Institute promulgated this rating. In the future, we will continue to follow the highest 
standard of ethical best practice and win the trust and support of the investors and shareholders.
Pay Attention to Digital Convergence Development
Since any changes in policy or regulation might affect the operation and development of Chunghwa Telecom, we therefore  
stay communication with the government and competent authority; meanwhile, pay close attention to the trend of any 
related regulations. Among the regulations, we have been monitoring closely on the development of “Digital Convergence 
Development Plan”, as it is crucial to national competitiveness and the development of ICT industry development.
The Executive Yuan approved the “Digital Convergence Development Plan” in 2010. The Digital Convergence 
Development Plan will increase national competitive strength and effectively accelerate digital convergence services 
and ICT industry development. We are happy to see its success and in addition to continuing to observe amendment 
status and direction and communicating our suggestions to the competent authorities at the right time, we will 
actively construct our fiber optic network simultaneously, enhance the competitive strength of fiber optic broadband, 
separately commit to expanding innovative value-added telecommunications and information services, and create 
business opportunities in the ICT industry to maintain our leading position.
Telecom Charge Policy Adjustment
In order to catch up to the European and American’s liberalized telecommunication market, the national 
communications commissions decided to adjust the current telecom charge policy. Beginning of 2013 there will be 
controlling over medial price among industry.
NCC started to cut down the connection fee for mobile phones from 2013 for 4 consecutive years, including the 2G, 3G, 
and communication system users, from NT$ 2.15 to 1.15 in 2016, which is equivalent to 46.5% price reduction.
We strive to bridge the digital gap, however, in Taiwan there’s no clear policy for radio frequency, people have 
concern about base station and part of people use most broadband resources, it’s hard for us to well distribute 
internet resources and infrastructure among people and regions. We will continue to communicate with the 
competent authorities and hope the industry and government can cooperate to establish a healthy environment that is 
advantageous to mobile broadband development.
* The mobile termination rates refer to when a customer makes a call to someone who is not a customer of the same company, 
 both companies must calculate the share cost according to the speaking time.Top 10 of Information Disclosure Ranking of 
Taiwan Company for 9 consecutive years 34Responses to Entrance Code Failure at the Data Center
Happened in December 2014
We failed to enforce the entrance code at the data center last year, and were punished by the NCC. We learned from this 
lesson and took corrective action to avoid the recurrence of the same mistake:
Intensification	of	Entrance	Code	and	Function
We have amended related regulations governing the entrance code for bolstering security management and as reinforcement 
to employees of the importance of security of the data center. We also instituted the “Communication Data Center Security 
Management Guideline”: 
An access control system has been introduced at the entrance of the communication data center with a list of personnel for  ●
passage clearance.
Appoint designated persons as the security manager of the data center who shall administer the enforcement of entrance  ●
code and the card reader for entrance clearance.
The data center security manager shall review the list of persons permitting to the data center and those visiting the data  ●
center at least once monthly, and forward the review result to the competent authority of Chunghwa Telecom for review.
Punishment
Those who have significant or special contribution to the protection of facilities and security control of the data center will  ●
be rewarded. Those who violated the rules will be punished depending on the severity of offense.
Completion of the teaching materials on “Entrance Code Management Regulation” for online education and promotion.  ●Strengthen Business Management
To improve the quality of business marketing and consumers’ trust, we have formulated the “Business Marketing 
Standards” to ensure the execution of business in line with the requirement of competent authority, while including 
compliance status into the evaluation of higher management’s performance.
Though Chunghwa Telecom has not been penalized by taxation and improper actions, however, 85 incidents in the total 
of NT$ 33.39 million were fined in 2014. Based on the fined items, the main reasons and subsequent improvement is 
described below:
Installation of Base Station
Chunghwa Telecom has long been complained about its “poor signal” and “base station might endanger health”, in quite 
a number of times, it was also penalized or received administrative sanctions due to base station issues. In consideration 
of consumers’ communication interests and difficulty in placing base stations, we will continue to adopt the following 
measures:
Communication with the public in an aggressive and positive manner concerning the setup of base station and  ●
adjustment issues.
Continue to communicate with the competent authority to relax the restriction of setting up base stations. ●
Work on regulations for administration of base station for a more definite and convenient measures. ●
Strengthen public awareness on the issues of electromagnetic waves and provide free testing services. ●35Corporate Governance
Brand Management
With diversified marketing creativity and channels, Chunghwa Telecom delivers expertise, convenience and a brand 
image meets consumers’ expectation. Long-term accumulation of the brand asset of “For you, Always ahead” as its core 
value and spare no effort to provide consumers with the best digital life.
Chunghwa Telecom adopts concentrated brand frameworks that account for individualistic brand presentation. 
President supervises all brand creation, design, management, and adjustments in the company. The Deputy Brand 
Managers for business groups follow the company’s overall brand strategies as they undertake implementation 
responsibilities, as well as flexibly and independently operating their own designated brands under authorized 
parameters.
Brand Policy: concentrated strategies that account for the development needs of individual fields. ●
Brand Management: Headquarter is designated to handle the formulation, control, and adjustment of all brand  ●
strategies, while subsidiaries are responsible for implementation.
Brand Structure: concentrated brand structures that account for individualistic brand presentation. ●
Brand Management Process and Evaluation Mechanism
(1) The headquarters unified the establishment and announcement of the Corporate Identification System Regulation, 
thereby the related functional units and branches shall comply with this regulation for the accumulation and 
promotion of corporate image. We organized the CIS promotion and training program in 2014 so as to make all 
employees know and understand the CIS regulation and the proper use of the regulation.
(2) For integration and synergy, we established the “Chunghwa Telecom Affiliates Branding and Advertising 
Management Guideline” thereby group companies may properly use the CIS to show the continuation of the group 
enterprises and upgrade the overall image on condition that such CIS does not defy the purpose of the establishment 
of the enterprise.
(3) We instituted the “Chunghwa Telecom Product Naming Principles” for the effective use of marketing resources, 
focus of branding, upgrade operation efficiency, and promoting products by brand for reinforcing the effect 
of communication with customers. The scope covers “Corporate Brand, Business Brand, and Product Brand”. For 
branding of service, it must be congruent with the subsidiary brands or under the concept of grouping so that the 
names of the brands are highly associated with the service. 2014 Brand Recognition
The leader in mobile communication and data network service in the “Preferred Brands” survey by “Management Magazine”. ●
Received Reader's Digest Trusted Brand's Platinum Award -Telecommunication Service for 10 consecutive years. ●
Received 1st place in “Best Brand Award” - telecommunication sector from Business Today for the 7th consecutive year. ●
The leader in telecommunication service in the “Five-Star Service Award” of “Global View Magazine”. ●
Received “Golden Service Awards” from CommonWealth Magazine as the leader in telecommunication service for 2  ●
consecutive years.
The leader in telecommunication service in the “Most Preferred Benchmark Enterprise” by CommonWealth Magazine. ●
Selected by Young Generation Brand Survey in 30 Monthly as a favorite brand for 5 consecutive years.  ●
Overall championship as “Digital Service Benchmark Corporation” and number one in “Data Channels and Communication  ●
Industry” for 3 consecutive years.36
Internal Employee Brand Study Project
We have launched the “Chunghwa Telecom and Branches Brand Position and Communication Use” study in 2014 in an 
attempt to clarify the positioning of key businesses. Through market survey by interviews, we understand consumers in 
their awareness of the brand of Chunghwa Telecom.
Through the building up of consensus, we bolster efficiency and quality of decision-making and can further convey 
the ideal images of the enterprise business clearly. In practice, we have mapped out the principles of product naming 
and the revision of CIS as the prerogatives. In the future, we will review the products and their life cycle regularly to 
respond to the needs of development and make appropriate and timely adjustment.
For You, Always Ahead
For years, Chunghwa Telecom has uphold the brand spirit of “For you, always Ahead”. While improving innovative soft 
power in digital convergence, the Company continues to provide consumers with better and more convenient ICT life. 
As a pioneering company, Chunghwa Telecom vows continuous forward-looking and innovation for you, always ahead, as 
promised.
Under the leadership of the brand spirit of the parent firm, other brands of the subsidiaries were properly developed, including 
the mobile communication brand, “emome”, the long-term developed “Keep in touch”, and the recent 4G LTE “The world gets 
faster with our peaceful heart”. The data communication arm, HiNet makes ceaseless efforts to upgrade the bandwidth and 
speed of its fiber optics, and promotes its “HiNet is speed”, the highly applauded “Every word is deep in heart” in international 
telecommunications, and “MOD is the foremost choice for digital TV”. 
With the offering of optimal solutions for enterprises, Chunghwa Telecom works hand-in-hand with customers while 
rendering service. The brands are widely accepted by customers and allowed the company to receive many awards. Chunghwa 
Telecom is oriented toward the vision of being “the most valuable and reliable data communication company”. 37Corporate Governance
Responsible Supply Chain Management
Whereas our relationship with the suppliers is inextricable, to provide better services to consumers, Chunghwa Telecom 
insists on the concept of mutual benefit and sharing. Chunghwa Telecom Code of Conduct” clearly specifies: We must 
treat our suppliers fairly and will not obtain unfair profit; suppliers are also strictly prohibited from obtaining improper 
profits; and we will not join with competitors to boycott or refuse to deal with suppliers.
Every year, Chunghwa Telecom purchases vast amounts of financial, labour and engineering services, including 
networking devices, IT devices, cables, marketing design, and waste disposal services from a large number of domestic 
and foreign suppliers. This indicates that we will be able to act as an inducer to invite suppliers to fulfill social 
responsibilities. We believe that:
As a company with excellent CSR reputation, we have the responsibility to lead and guide our suppliers to implement  ●
CSR best practices through experience sharing and cooperation.
CSR supply chain is one of the issues that stakeholders concerned, and experience told us that the key is  ●
communication and cooperation with suppliers, and together establish a fundamental capability to move toward 
sustainable operation and infuse positive momentum to the society and environment overall is what really matters.
In this regard, Chunghwa Telecom holds “CSR Supplier Social Event” every year to discuss and share CSR practices with 
our partners, and work together to facilitate the sustainable development of the social and industrial development in 
Taiwan.
Leading Supply Chain CSR Management
2009
20082011
20102014
2013Formulated “Basic Status 
Survey on CSR for suppliers” 
and formally started supply 
chain CSR management 
under CSR committee’s 
approval.
Published “Suppliers’ 
environment and human 
right guidelines” which 
asked suppliers to follow 
labor and environment 
regulations.Began to regular hold 
“CSR Supplier Social  
Event” annually and  
publish the analysis  
result of suppliers’ CSR 
condition.
Invited critical suppliers to 
reply “Basic Status Survey 
on CSR for suppliers” and 
held first “CSR Supplier 
Social Event” to learn the 
CSR condition of suppliersCommission SGS, a third 
party accreditation  
agency, to launch the 
“suppliers CSR second 
party audit” on 10 key 
suppliers.
Be the first telecom  
service provider to  
implement supply chain 
CSR audit and assistance.G4-1238The First Telecom Carrier in Taiwan to Formulate “Supplier CSR Guidelines”
With supplier CSR management launched since 2008, Chunghwa Telecom is the first telecom carrier in Taiwan to 
formulate a CSR management policy. In addition to continuous comprehensive stipulations, in 2014, we become the first 
service provider to promote supplier CSR management in Taiwan, in hopes to provide more and better products and 
services to stakeholders through mutual benefit and shared growth with our suppliers.
We have instituted the “Chunghwa Telecom Supplier CSR Guidelines” as the uniform standard for all suppliers to 
observe. The guidelines explicitly declare our expectation in the aspects of “enterprise, ethics, labor, environment, 
and safety and health”, and are applicable to all suppliers providing products and services to Chunghwa Telecom, its 
subsidiaries and joint ventures, and will extend to firms along the direct or indirect supply chain to suppliers.
Chunghwa Telecom hopes all suppliers will jointly share the commitment to an even more sustainable business ecology 
circle through further sustainable work. In addition, we stipulated “Chunghwa Telecom’s Operating Guidelines for 
Qualifying Material Suppliers.” In 2013, to manage the implementation of suppliers’ ethical business practice.
Type of 
ContractRegion of 
Supplier2012 2013 2014
CountsProportion 
of purchaseCountsProportion 
of purchaseCountsProportion 
of purchase
LabourDomestic 2,322 13.7% 2,203 13.6% 2,085 15.8%
Overseas 0 0.0% 1 0.0% 32 0.9%
PropertyDomestic 2,975 43.5% 2,859 34.1% 2,483 39.0%
Overseas 53 25.2% 44 28.9% 57 22.5%
EngineeringDomestic 1,849 17.6% 1,755 23.4% 1,653 21.6%
Overseas 0 0.0% 0 0.0% 4 0.1%
Total 7,199 100% 6,862 100% 6,314 100%Procurement StatusChunghwa Telecom’s Operating Guidelines for 
Qualifying Material Suppliers
(1) If the tenderer is suspended due to Article 15 of the general
articles, or Article 103 of Government Procurement Act (omitted) 
(2) The tenderer shall record all acts of good faith.
(3) The tenderer prevents the use of conflict minerals from 
Democratic Republic of the Congo or in adjoining 
countries, when necessary, is willing to provide proof 
of origin for minerals or third party certification that no 
conflict mineral is used or accept inspection. 
(4) If the tenderer requires to use its employee’s certificate to 
participate in a tender, confirmation executed by the 
relevant parties is required (omitted)Labor Safety and Health Guidelines for 
Contractors
For the intensification of on-site audit on safety and 
health for the realization of the rules and regulation 
of shop floor safety and health, the branches in north 
and south Taiwan and the business locations of HiNet 
have established the position of Safety and Health 
Officer (excluding the supervisors). They conduct on-
site inspection on shop floor on safety and health at 
least three times a week (half day for each inspection). 
In 2014, they conducted 8,313 instances of inspection, 
and informed related units for corrective actions if 
shortcomings were detected.39Corporate Governance
Supplier’s CSR Status Disclosure
3%Conduct GHG inventory10%Publicly disclose CSR information35%Advocacy of green purchases40%Labor-management meeting at least once a year94%Fine and other administrative actions for no legal offensePioneer in Second Party Audit on Supplier CSR
From 2012 onward, we require suppliers with purchase amounts of more than NTD 5 million to comply with the “Supplier 
CSR Guidelines” and the “Particulars for the Promotion of Supplier CSR” whereby suppliers shall fill in the “Supply CSR 
Status Questionnaire” after being awarded the contract for the assessment and management of the installation of CSR 
and sustainability system. In 2014, we had 211 respondents for overall CSR status installation and evaluation and rating.
We have conducted audits on 63 work wiring contractors in 2014 through on-site observation and interviews with 
management and employees in order to control the work quality. There were 115 audits conducted. Chunghwa Telecom 
has also formally commissioned external accreditation agencies for “supplier CSR second party audit” on 10 key 
suppliers. Through the two-prong strategy of “understanding and analysis”, “on-site visit”, we have built up a viable 
supply chain management system.
For suppliers at the elementary stage, we introduce CSR by promoting and providing training programs to walk them 
through necessary principle of CSR. At the same time, on annul CSR Supplier Social Event, experts were invited to share 
with us regarding CSR’s latest development, issues and trends, so as to enhance suppliers’ awareness and understanding 
of CSR and demonstrate Chunghwa Telecom’s commitment and effort toward supplier management, while establishing 
mutual benefit with the suppliers.
Supplier Management and Encouragement 
Chunghwa Telecom manages suppliers in accordance with “General terms of tender instruction “ and ”Tender qualification 
check list”, any violation or inappropriate behaviors will be suspended, terminated, or terminate contracts accordingly.
We have audited 52 suppliers in 2014 and marked down 117 points for violation of rules and regulation, and have 
imposed fines amounting to NT$1,078,000. For encouraging suppliers in good standing, we offered the following 
preferential treatment in southern Taiwan in 2015 as a pilot project, and assessed the result and applicable regions. We 
hope we may exercise the influence of large enterprise to allow for proper realization of corporate social responsibility. 
No bid bond is required in the bidding. ●
The performance bond is reduced to 5% of the contract sum after being awarded. ●
Announcement of the 5% of assessment of the issues for evaluation. In the future, the percentage will incrementally  ●
be enhanced depending on the feasibility.40Support the Supplier in Advocacy of CSR
In 2014 Chunghwa Telecom held the 4th Supplier CSR Social Event. With President Shih Mu-piao hosted the event, 58 
companies attended with a total of 70 representatives participated.
The social event provided an interface to create bilateral exchange opportunity between Chunghwa Telecom and 
the suppliers, and to facilitate suppliers’ understanding of Chunghwa Telecom’s expectation and plan on social 
responsibility. Furthermore, we also awarded 5 excellent CSR suppliers, including second party audit and disclosure of 
suppliers in good standing. By doing so, we hope to encourage suppliers’ contribution in CSR and create a good role 
model for other suppliers, while together with our partners to establish a good sustainable development environment.
In 2014, we had the honor of inviting VP of HTC, responsible for the Power To Give Charity Project to share ideas. We 
hope we could share surplus resources with society and assist the international research and development through the 
advocacy of the CSR platform. This is also in-line with the core value of upgrading the efficiency of resources utilization 
with telecommunication technology.
Invitation of Suppliers to CSR Events
Global climate change has caused extreme weather and disasters. This jeopardized the lives and property of the public and 
also caused economic damage to industrial development.
For this reason, Chunghwa Telecom participated in the project of Water Resources Agency of the MOEA in 2014, and 
organized the “Flood Prevention Corporate Forum” in north, central, and south Taiwan. We also invited suppliers to share in 
the cause. Through the cooperation and exchange among private enterprises, academic institutions, and government, we 
have alerted more enterprises to commit their effort in the prevention of flood and rescue and relief in disasters, and the 
performance of CSR. This helps to intensify the discussion of the public on disaster prevention and fortify the capacity in 
responding to floods and droughts.
Supplier CSR Social Event: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gftgLuQ-KGI41Corporate Governance
Mutual	Benefit	and	Symbiotic	Relation	with	the	Business	Partners
By sharing all resources with the suppliers to enhance their research and development capabilities, we are able to keep 
abreast of future technology and commit to the innovation of a friendly environment. We have introduced variable 
mechanisms, such as joint R&D with the suppliers and provide incentives; equitable transfer of the acquired patents; 
for hardware, we continue to support the development of telecom facilities and testing environment; for software, we 
reach mutual benefits with the suppliers through expanding and open cooperation platform.
Health management: Engaged in a joint venture with hospitals in launching the electronic medical record for  ●
integration into a large wearable device and health management professional service. Worked in conjunction with 
Chang Kung Memorial Hospital and Formosa Biomedical Technology Corporation to apply the subsidy of the “Speeding 
Up Mobile Broadband Service and Industrial Development Program” from the government to upgrade the health 
industry.
Technology joint venture with Hami+ Book Store and Spring House Technology. Chunghwa Telecom provided the  ●
platform while Spring House Technology consulted with the publishers on the content of the eBooks and purchase, 
replication of eBooks, book store portal, Reader App, customer services, and the overall operation of the book store. 
This will contribute to the business of the publication industry in Taiwan.
Entered into a new MOU with Intel in August 2014 whereby a joint venture is kicked off in IoT, cloud computing, and  ●
SDN. With the use of Intel processor, source software as the framework for POC concept validation. This is used 
to test the SDN service with the Intel solution as the foundation to help corporate customers reduce cost in 
management of their network architecture.
Firefly		Project
Partnered with the Small and Medium Enterprise Credit Guarantee Fund of Taiwan to establish the “Chunghwa 
Telecom Firefly (counter guarantee) Project Credit Guarantee.” All first-rate corporations recommended by us can 
apply for credit guarantee. So far, a total of 20 companies had been recommended, and the project was instrumental 
in obtaining NT$ 278 million."Love and Health Cloud" Union for eMedicare 
Chunghwa Telecom is engaged in the "Love and Health Cloud" Union with ASUS and the Show Chwan Hospital so as to 
integrate cloud technology and medical and healthcare and build up the health cloud living circle. In addition, Chunghwa 
Telecom also is sparing no effort in supporting the government in the medical and healthcare program in Palau, a country 
with formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan, providing related software that jointly exports the health cloud indigenously 
developed in Taiwan overseas.
Professional Training to Suppliers
As we are committed to share mutual benefit with our suppliers, the Telecommunication Training Institute of 
Chunghwa Telecom provides, based on business needs, professional and certification training to suppliers, including 
skill testing for cable contractors, certification for quality controllers of telecom construction engineering, or cable 
connection contractor training, etc. In 2014, we delivered 58 courses, 63 suppliers with a total of 2,673 persons have 
participated in the courses, and 1,283 persons have received relevant certification.42 43 42 43
StrategyContinue the investment in R&D, the introduction of advanced technologies and the joint 
ventures with the government and academic circle.
ManagementEstablish the quality improvement task force, quality assurance center, and business process 
task force for introducing ISO R&D quality system for integration with the development of 
competence, project management and system operation.
ActionContinue to present innovative products and service through R&D to create a smart city, 
including ITS smart transportation and smart home.
ResponsePlease refer to page 51 “2014 Year in Review and 2015 Prospects”
Target
Indicator
Pioneering Smart Service
3.5 billion in R&D investment
1,528 talent in R&D CHT
CHTContinue to pool momentum for research and development and launch new 
products for the creation of a smart city.
2015~2018  earn 600,000 paid accounts for 4G smart city service, 
assist governments to create smart city.Short-term
Long-term42 43 42 43Sustainable Products and Services
R&D and innovation capacity is the engine driving the perpetual growth of 
an enterprise. The rapid development of technology and consumption trends 
drives digital life services into the era of digital convergence. Being a leader in 
telecommunications, Chunghwa Telecom is spirited in vision and innovation 
and was conceived with the notion of sharing and the joint prosperity of the 
industry that materialized into an environment of plenty.
Chunghwa Telecom has fully developed network Infrastructure. With the 
advantages given by the integration of the hardware and software of 4G 
and cloud, Chunghwa Telecom can assist the counties and cities of Taiwan 
for further development and transformation so as to build up the smart 
city to "Intermingle features and innovation". This will also bring benefits 
to industrial upgrading and improvement of the quality of living for the 
people. The goal is sustainable corporate development driving forward the 
sustainable social development.
Smart city building is a perpetual process without end. We believe that the 
city itself is an organism with opportunity and is engaged in change over 
time under the demands of the people and the vision of leaders. Every city 
has its challenges. As such, a city also needs to evolve without pause and 
develop with wisdom in order to tackle problems and challenges. From 4G 
to IoT, from technology to application, from vision to realization, Chunghwa 
Telecom will assist you in designing a blueprint for the building of a smart 
city and development of business opportunities in smart services.
Infrastructure of 
Smart City
Safety and 
HealthGreen Energy and 
Sustainability 
Cultural and 
Tourism
Industrial 
Development
Technology  
Innovation
Pioneering Smart Service44 45 44 45
 4444 45 44 4545
462014 Performance Highlight
Traditional ModeWith traditional computing solution, it takes 1.7 million hours to produce 3D+4K film and all the 
special effects.
CHT ContributionReduce the workload significantly by more than 50% in the filming and allow the film to complete 
in 4 months which otherwise would take 10 months.iEN - Intelligent Energy Service
iEN provides enterprises a full-range of technical services in energy saving and developing an environment of optimal energy 
management so as to effectively upgrade system operations and cost reduction in business. This service has been successfully 
applied to hospitals, schools, government agencies, aquaculture and fisheries, and superstores ever since its launch in the 
market, and has been highly acclaimed. In 2014, we had revenue amounting to NT$1 billion from this service.
For example, Chunghwa Telecom completed the "Taoyuan Da Zhen Watergate Remote Control Project" in 2014. With the use 
of the concept of IoT and integration into web pages and the mobile App detection function, this project provides proper 
management of water resources, disaster prevention, and automatic monitoring and water gate control.
Intelligent Transportation System (ITS)
“Fleet Management Express” combines cloud technologies such as GPS dual communication, personalize door plate positioning 
technology and fuel management to effectively reduce cost of message transmission and enhance business efficiency.
One year after importing the service, average vehicle fuel consumption is reduced by 6.6%, average vehicle idle time is 
reduced by 31%, total fuel saving is amounted to NT$ 4 million, equivalent to 307 metric tons of carbon emission. “As of the 
end of 2014, we have improved operational efficiency of the system to support daily service of 50,000 calls, meanwhile, by 
working with 12 fleets, we helped 3,500 taxies to reduce dispatching time by 56%, increase daily occupancy rate by 28%, and 
reduce vacant hours by 48%, which is equivalent to reducing 7.7 kg of carbon emission.
Thundering in the Cloud Through the Integration of Conventional Technologies
The "hicloud Render" cloud computing service of Chunghwa Telecom provides a brand-new cloud technology and creative 
process for the digital content industry of Taiwan so that the artistic and cultural creation and audiovisual industry can 
prepare good quality content at low cost and efficient for penetration into the international market.
"The ARTI-The Adventure Begins", is a 3D animated movie that first introduced the commercial use cloud computing service 
to movie. Through the cloud patching processing feature, the massive and burdensome computing inherent to animated 
movie can substantially be reduced.
Chunghwa Telecom helped the Oscar Award Winning Director Li An to complete the special graphic effects of the film 
"The Life of Pi" in 2012. Since then, Chunghwa Telecom has been contracted for performing related duties in special effect 
computing in the production of numerous films.
In the future, Chunghwa Telecom will combine cloud storage service and the broadcasting HD OTT viewing platform to 
provide total solution for the digital content of Taiwan from production, post-production to circulation, and to show the 
outstanding performance of artistic creation of Taiwan to the world.47Pioneering Smart Service
Sustainability in Innovative R&D
Chunghwa Telecom incorporated its product R&D, production and sales, and human resources management research 
and development policies into a strategic CSR plan on the basis of its resources and core competence. Through the 
gathering and analysis of information on performance, Chunghwa Telecom continues the improvement of related CSR 
plans for better efficiency and performance.
Chunghwa Telecom continues to invest in relevant resources in research and development works for laying a solid 
foundation of core competence in the data communication industry in order to control the key technologies in network 
performance, operation management, and business innovation.
For this reason, Chunghwa Telecom has changed the name of the CHT Institute to CHT Laboratories in 2012 to assist 
the company to emerge as a leader in data communication service, promote industrial upgrading, and bolster the 
competitive power of the country. In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom invested approximately NTD 3.5 billion in research and 
development, which accounted for approximately 1.55% of revenue. It also applied with the Intellectual Property Bureau 
of MOEA for registration of 178 cases with 162 being approved.
Encourage Internal Innovation
For nurturing the corporate culture of innovation, Chunghwa Telecom has established a quality promotion task force, 
quality assurance center, and business process task force at the CHT Laboratories. Proposals being accepted will be 
rewarded. If a specific proposal has been validated, developed, and launched to market, the proposer will be entitled to 
a prize of up to NTD 30 million depending on the actual status of operation.
Talent Sets Key to Innovation
Among over 1,500 employees (accounted for 6.4% of all employees) in CHT-TL, 90% is functioned as R&D. In addition 
to develop the abilities required for business expansion, Chunghwa Telecom group stresses innovative service, 
fundamental technology and forward-looking research, and develops convenient but practical services to meet 
consumers’ demand. To ease up complication, Chunghwa Telecom transforms complication into simplicity, allowing 
consumers to “point and done”, in hope to meet “Simple for consumers, Complication stays at Chunghwa Telecom”.
CHT-TL Talent Summary
Wireless 
Communication 
InstituteOperational 
Strategy 
InstituteBroadband 
Network 
InstituteConvergence 
Service 
InstituteInformation & 
Communication 
Security 
Institute
Customer 
Service 
Information 
InstituteSmart IOT 
InstituteAccounting 
Information 
InstituteCloud 
Computing 
Institute
Corporate 
Customer 
InstituteNetwork 
Management 
Institute48CHT Laboratories’ Talent Overview
Master 63.6%
Ph.D. 6.1%
Others 2.2%
Bachelor 2.1%Master 22.0%
Bachelor 1.3%Others 2.1%Ph.D. 0.6%
Total 1,130 employees Total 398 employees
Award presented by Name of Award
Ministry of 
Economic Affairs"Environment ARtificer THeurgy won the EPIF 2014 International Green Classics Awards – Honor Award
Winner of 3 Gold, 5 Silver, and 1 Bronze awards from Taipei International Invention Show & Technomart 
Winner of the 2014 TAITRONICS-Technology Innovation Awards
1.Outstanding product award on cloud IoT: Environment ARtificer THeurgy
2.Big Data Security Log Analysis System
3.Outstanding product award on broadband communication: Smart Communication Service
ITS Taiwan2014 smart transportation application award: "Smart Vehicle Service Sharing Management System" ●
2014 Smart Transportation Essay Award: "Scaling the Real-time Traffic Sensing with GPS Equipped  ●
Probe Vehicles", and the "The Method for the Assessment of Transportation Information on the Basis of 
Cell Network Data"
IT Month The "Quick Access to Road Information - Smart Traffic Information Service" won the "2014 IT Month Top 
100 Innovative Products Award"
Chinese Society 
for Management 
of TechnologyThe Convergence Service Institute of CHT Laboratories won the "16th Technology Management Award - 
Corporate Teamwork Award"Credentials of the CHT Laboratories
49Pioneering Smart Service
2014 Year in Review and 2015 Year in Prospects
2014 2015
Focused on the study of the characteristics of the millimeter  ●
wave channel and conducted assessment through computer 
simulation before installing the network on the feasibility and 
system performance. This saved time and cost to provide the users 
top quality wireless broadband service.
With the use of Software Defined Network (SDN) technology to  ●
optimize Wi-Fi Quality of Experience (QoE), this substantially 
reduced the cost of monitoring the locations and operation 
maintenance. 
Big Data Gathering function: The use of SDN/NFV (NFV: Network  ●
Function Virtualization) for centralization of the structure can 
reduce the number of data centers, machine cabinet space, power, 
and complexity in maintenance.
Launched data security value added service: through the SDN  ●
optimized structure, reduce the cost and upgrade the expandability 
of data security service.
Chunghwa Telecom participated in the Super Computing held at  ●
New Orleans, USA. and showed the SDN data security value added 
service; we also participated in APNOMS 2014 and joined the ONF. 
These enhanced our international visibility. 
Our EyeQuila and LiveDump data security services can quickly dig  ●
out malicious events and proceed to automatic identification to 
reduce possible data loss. This saved the time for big data analysis 
by 94% and the time for big data search by 96%.
We upgraded the capacity of IRMAS and iServer at terminal  ●
protection for realization of data security policy. This IPAM system 
incorporated 6,769 network sections of the company to save 
external procurement cost by at least NTD 100 million and annual 
maintenance fee by NTD 15 million.Effort will be committed to the R&D of the 5G  ●
mobile communications. Millimeter wave allows 
for broader bandwidth and more antennae for 
super high-speed and high-precision transmission. 
It can also trigger the possibility of many things in 
the future such as help to reduce time and cost of 
installation.
Our Wi-Fi Gateway virtualized Proof of Service  ●
(PoS) helps to condense the time for installation 
significantly. Economically, it can reduce the number 
of hardware equipment effectively. At the social 
level, this upgrades user experience, satisfied the 
needs of the consumers and social expectation, and 
reinforces brand identification of the consumers. In 
environmental protection, energy efficiency could 
be improved.
Kick off the Virtual Customer Premise Equipment  ●
and SDN Virtual Private Network PoS services for  
enterprises. 
We will continue to reinforce the function of  ●
EyeQuila and control the server activities from 
the terminal point in order to provide the tool for 
the identification of data security events, disclose 
the threat and respond from the terminal point to 
contain the dispersion of the situation and feedback 
to the data security protection system.50Developing Industry Transformation
With the advantages of network infrastructure, telecom value-added service and integration of software and hardware, 
we expect to lead and drive the transformation and development of ICT industry in Taiwan to achieve the following 
three goals:
Lead Cloud Computation
Cloud computing is the totality of cloud server, terminal, network, and service. "Network" and "service" are the 
advantages inherent to Chunghwa Telecom as a communication service provider. Further to providing consumer 
relation management, computing cloud, cloud anti-virus service, and cloud storage, we also proactively work in 
cooperation with partners such as Microsoft, Intel, IBM, Trend Micro, Wiwynn for jointly promote cloud services so as 
to reinforce the infrastructure of cloud and advocate the development of cloud computing industry in Taiwan.
Four-center, One-platform, One-marketplace
Chunghwa Telecom develops its cloud computing in accordance with its four-center one-platform one-marketplace 
strategy framework. Four centers are the R&D Center, Test Center, Operation Center, and Experiment Center.
In the project for "Cloud Service Application for Small and Medium Enterprises of New Taipei City", Chunghwa Telecom 
provides a high capacity "Cloud Platform" and built up the "CHT Cloud Marketplace", linking all cloud industries of 
Taiwan and helps the enterprise to save cost by "daily big saving", and provides the cloud station, SaaS CRM marketing 
guru, cloud mobile business opportunity, cloud server, cloud database, and corporate eChannels.
Some 5,200 small and medium enterprises joined the project since 2014. New Taipei will be the city with the highest 
population of corporate cloud service and the best performed city in Taiwan. 
Taiwan Cloud Valley Program
For encouraging industries to develop cloud innovation and application service, the Cloud Computing Association 
of Taiwan officially launched the "Taiwan Cloud Leopard of Cloud Valley Incubation Program" (known as Cloud 
Leopard Incubation) in April 2013. This program is the convergence of the momentum of the powerful members of the 
association for soliciting the development of the platform for cloud service with the formation of a tutorial team.
In 2013, Chunghwa Telecom participated in the 1st Cloud Leopard Incubation Program. Divisional Manager of HiNet acted 
as the corporate tutor of Meworks who turned out to be the champion and was awarded a prize of NTD 1 million.
In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom again participated in the 2nd Taiwan Cloud Leopard Incubation Program. Divisional 
Manager of HiNet acted as the representative corporate tutor and supervised four teams, and the Public Social 
Enterprise won the fourth place and was the first social enterprise being awarded. Become the cloud-computing leader in Taiwan.1
Promote the cloud computing industry. 2
Work with strategic partners to create innovative cloud computing services.351Pioneering Smart Service
Join the Taiwan Intelligent Aerotropolis Association (TIAA)
In supporting the government in the realization of the "Taoyuan Aerotropolis Program", Chunghwa Telecom voluntarily 
invited the pilots in Taiwan and foreign countries in the ecosystem of smart aerotropolis to form the Taiwan Intelligent 
Aerotropolis Association (TIAA). The objective of TIAA is to "Construct an International Gateway to Taiwan and Build a 
City of Industrial Technology". We presented a far-sighted innovative smart application service development strategy 
for the construction of Taoyuan Aerotropolis.
TIAA was officially established in 2013, with the Chairman of Chunghwa Telecom acted as the 1st Chairman. Through the 
operation of the organization, we can demonstrate leadership position in "smart aerotropolis" and "smart city".Innovation & Application Contest
Chunghwa Telecom worked in conjunction with students for the development of Innovative telecommunication service for 
encouragement of network application and digital learning. The Innovation & Application contest, which has been held for 
13 years, helped to Identify many good ideas in the applicable of multiple screens, cloud service, and cultural creativity. The 
contest is consisted of 5 programs, including the "Hami Apps software development and supplier contest", "MOD micro film 
creation contest:, "hicloud creation contest", "FunPark creation story" and "HiNet Digital Learning Contest".
"MOD Micro Film Contest" has been widely applauded and has attracted renowned figures of different social sectors and 
creative gurus to participate. This program has the largest number of contestants, among other contests. The "Hami Apps 
software development and supplier contest" is the only contest where the works will be exhibited on the shelf of the biggest 
App market in Chinese language -Hami Software. The "FunPark Creative Story and Digital Creation Contest" is the first of its 
kind that avails the platform for digital drawing of the children that help to develop children book writers. There were 3,500 
contestants with the participation of 153 schools.Further information: http://innovation.hinet.net/
TIAA: http://www.tiaa.com.tw/
52 53 52 53
StrategyDiversity of channels for services to provide consumers multilateral, high quality, and 
efficient services.
ManagementFormation of a professional technical service team ●
Accreditation of the SGS Qualicert service certification ●
Establishment of designated internal consultants and supervisors to advocate refined  ●
service supervision
Setup a vibrant service zone  ●
ActionPlans for the transformation and upgrading of retail locations ●
Accreditation of a personal information management system ●
ResponseResponse to "the dilemma of coverage of the base stations" at page 25.
TargetMakes personalized high quality products and services available to customers at Chunghwa 
Telecom.
Indicator
Listen to the Customers
Average consumer's satisfaction: 7.3 out of 10.
The complaint rate per every millions of users: 182  cases.GRI
CHT52 53 52 53Chunghwa Telecom treasures the opinions of our customers, and we are 
oriented towards the needs of the customers in marketing and promotion. 
For this reason, Chunghwa Telecom has instituted strict standards and 
procedures for marketing and service, and a diversity of service channels so 
as to provide multilateral, high quality, and efficient service to the customers.
In response to the growth of urban population, we established 48 new service 
stations in 2014, while improving the existing service centers and root services 
into communities in a continuous manner so as to expand and upgrade our services 
and capabilities into an efficient, convenient and touching service provider.
Upgrade Channels
We have launched the transformation and upgrading plan for the stores so 
as to refine our service quality and allow consumers to receive quick and 
convenient service. Related measures are:
Develop more business locations for bolstering our service network: by the  ●
end of December 2014, we have established 165 service centers, 469 stores, 
and 275 franchised stores, which made up the total of 744 service stations.
Set “et blict coach” who is responsible for coaching retail store management  ●
and marketing performance, to enhance the management efficiency of the 
store operations.
Establish the system of self-inspection, audit, and supervision for service  ●
quality: all stores must conduct self-inspection and business offices will 
conduct random inspection and audits of the stores so as to upgrade over-
the-counter service quality.
Customer Service and Information Security Management
We provide manual of products and services informing product characteristics and application, consider the negative 
overusing effect to consumers, and place friendly reminder in marketing. In 2014, no violation of health and safety and 
product labeling was reported.
In addition, Chunghwa Telecom has instituted the "Channel Sale Support Items Management Guideline" and the "Channel 
Sale Support Items Management Implementation Procedures" to make the display of sale support items and operation 
management at all service and business locations consistent, and allow for a positive service environment for the 
consumers. These are vital for maintaining the professional superior image and service quality of Chunghwa Telecom.Quantity of Products and Services Approximately 3,500 unit
Customer Service Information 
StationThere is an "information zone" in our intranet. Designated personnel review information 
and upload to the station for the inquiry of all service centers.
Consumer HotlineProvide complete information on the features of products and services, and related 
special offers.
Listen to the Customers54Customer Privacy Protection
Chunghwa Telecom duly observes the Personal Information Protection Act in the collection, processing, and use of 
personal information and guarantees the security of customer information through strictly designed management system. 
In 2014, there were 44 cases of complaints on alleged information leaking, but none of them has been proven to be our 
mistake. This was an improvement by 23% as compared with 57 cases in 2013. Complaints of this type approximately 
accounted for only 0.0001% of the all complaints received and answered by our customer service hotline.
Organization There is the "Personal Information Protection Team" under the " IT Strategy Committee" 
Policies and 
Procedures(1) The Personal Information Protection Policy, Management Regulations, Security training and promotion plan, 
process analysis and inspection plan, and risk assessment plan.
(2) Introduced the "Notice of the Collection of Personal Information of the Consumers Clause" and the "Notice 
of Confirmation of the Application and Processing of Personal Information of the Consumers" in response to 
the promulgation of the Personal Information Protection Act.
Management 
System(1) Got ISO 27001 certification in information security in 2007
(2) Extend ISO 27001 certification project in 2010
(3) Got ISO 27001 international data security management system certification and the NCC ISO 27011 audit 
items on telecommunication services in 2011, which made Chunghwa Telecom the first telecommunication 
service provider accredited with NCC standard.
Personnel 
Control 
Mechanism(1) All consumer basic information is classified as "top secret" and was kept in a locked file cabinet.
(2) All personnel must enter into the "Agreement on Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure of Business Secret". All 
supervisors must assume joint and several liabilities
(3) If outsourced works involved business secrets, related contractors and their personnel must also enter into 
the agreement on confidentiality and non-disclosure of business secret.
Customer 
Service
Control 
Mechanism(1) Risk: The customer service personnel carry portable storage devices to store the information of the 
consumers in the workplace.
(2) Response: In 2013, the company has instituted the "Regulation Governing the Carrying and Use of Data 
Storage Devices at Customer Service Processing and Operation Centers" and made it a part of the training 
and education at the operation center. All personnel must receive training of this kind once semi-annually 
with records for tracking. And we established ISO9001 Suspected Leakage Handling Procedures to report and 
handle all privacy complaints.
Clarification of "Illicit Use of the Consumer 
Phone Number" Case
Chunghwa Telecom was informed by NCC at the end 
of 2014 that a consumer complained about the illicit 
use of its phone numbers. In response, Chunghwa 
Telecom started an investigation immediately and 
confirmed that all the connection records are used 
internally for customer service and fall within the 
scope of reasonable use. We forwarded all supporting 
evidence to NCC and confirmed that Chunghwa 
Telecom has done nothing unlawful.Obtained Certification for Personal Information 
Management
Our mobile customer service hotline has got BS10012 in 2013, 
which made Chunghwa Telecom the first telecommunication 
service provider of Taiwan being accredited with this 
standard. In 2014, data, broadband, international line, 
corporate customers, and part of the fixed network had also 
been accredited. It is expected that by 2016, all the customers 
service hotlines will be accredited that make Chunghwa 
Telecomm a benchmark company in the protection of personal 
information of the consumers.55Listen to the Customers
Ensure Service Quality
Chunghwa Telecom makes ceaseless effort to expand the volume and upgrade the quality of its 4G mobile 
communication system. We introduced advanced technologies, which echoed with the 1800/900MHz base stations. 
This arrangement allows for the coverage of service from points, lines, and to planes for even more extensive and 
better quality mobile broadband network service.
Chunghwa Telecom planned to make investment amounting to NTD 100 billion from 2012 to 2016 to install broadband 
network extensively so as to create an edge for digital convergence and innovative service development. Furthermore, 
we also support the "digital convergence development plan" of the government in concrete actions, which is manifested 
in its objective of "7.2 million accounts of fiber optic users and 11 million accounts in wireless broadband users". 
In response to the demand for digital convergence and smart digital life, Chunghwa Telecom also launched high-speed 
surfing on the web with 300Mbps fiber optic to satisfy the needs of customers. This move will lead Taiwan moving 
towards the age of G from the age of M.
By the end of 2014, the coverage of 100Mbps users was already 87.2%. With the addition of cable TV service providers, 
and Taiwan Smart fiber optic network, the national coverage of 100Mbps could be as high as 90% or more. This figure 
has already hit the target set by the government for its policy at this stage.
In addition, Chunghwa Telecom also spares no effort to develop the infrastructure and broadband network, and 
supports the government strategy of mending the digital gap so that people living in the rural areas can enjoy 
nondiscriminatory medical service and education resources.
Note 1:  Definition of 100Mbps broadband coverage: The coverage perimeter of 400 meters by fiber optics or wireless means, with 
 proper installation of equipment. The number of households/user accounts by families of Taiwan that can be provided  in 
 one month at the application of the users. 
Note 2:  Broadband coverage rate refers to the supply side of service by the service provider, and includes the broadband service within 
 specific territory by Ethernet or VDSL in speed, and is unrelated to the speed that may be used by current users or potential users.Product and Service Performance in 2014 Target in 2015
Broadband4.5 million accounts (867,000 accounts of broadband 
users at 100Mbps and higher, increased 132.0% in 2014)An addition of 540,000 accounts in using 
broadband of 100Mbps and higher
FTTx 3.1 million users (increased 8.7% in 2014)Net growth of fiber optic users by 170,000 
accounts
MOD 1.3 million users (increased 3.6% in 2014) 1.4 million user accounts
4GThere were 1.3 million user accounts since the launch of 
service on May 29 2014Market share over 40%
4G Everywhere, No Distance in Rural Areas 
By the end of 2014, the installation of 4G base stations covered all 22 counties and cities and 368 township and villages of 
Taiwan, including Penghu, Kimmen, Matsu, Liu Chiu, Green Island, and Orchid Island. Even remote areas of Jade Mountain and 
Ho Huan Mountain or their rural zones are covered by 4G signal for service.
A tiny remote offshore Island, Wuchiu, has been covered with 4G signal service by Chunghwa Telecom since December 28 
2014, which made the company the pioneer of 4G service in the industry. Since then, Chunghwa Telecom has accomplished its 
goal of the most extensive coverage of service with "4G everywhere" and "100% coverage in all villages".56
Expand Wireless Hotspots
As of the end of 2014, Chunghwa Telecom has built more than 50,000 public Wi-Fi hot spots accumulatively and has 
assisted the local governments and public institutions in building more than 7,200 hot spots at their commission.
For providing the public stable quality, wide bandwidth and convenient service for access to the Internet, Chunghwa 
Telecom has established the solid user validation platform and full area continuous operation monitoring and control 
system, and also the Wi-Fi traffic failure repair service system so as to provide the consumers barrier-free and full-
coverage Wi-Fi access service. The service quality has been widely applauded by the public.
Furthermore, Chunghwa Telecom also acts as a good neighbor in supporting the activities and special events in the 
counties and the cities, and expanded the hot spots for the service of the people for access to the Internet. Examples 
are the expansion of some 136 hot spots for the New Year Eve celebration, and 257 hot spots for the Nantou Lantern 
Festival. An amount of more than NTD 8.85 million was spent for this cause.
For iPhone users, which are bundled with a user code, Chunghwa Telecom has activated the Wi-Fi automatic validation 
function (EAP-SIM). With this service, iPhone customers are not required to enter the code and PIN to access the Wi-Fi 
network of CHT. For Android device users, they just download the "CHT-Wi-Fi" App and set up a one-time user code and 
PIN to complete the registration, and they can access the CHT Wi-Fi network with barrier-free afterwards.
* In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom introduced the Wi-Fi AP automatic monitoring and control function. This helps save manual setup 
 time for up to 10,000 work hours annully.
Sponsorship of the Lantern Festival for 16 Years
Chunghwa Telecom was the principal sponsor of the 2014 Taiwan Lantern Festival at Nantou. Indeed, it was the 16th year that 
the company sponsored this event. In addition, Chunghwa Telecom also simulcast the event with the use of the MOD, HiNet, 
and Hami platforms, and supported the Nantou Government to add more mobile base stations In the lantern show area with 
the extensive coverage of Wi-Fi network for providing real-time action or wireless access to the Internet service.
Chunghwa Telecom is also conceived with the idea of caring for the social misfortunes. In so doing, we invited the balloon 
guru of "Nantou Association for the Welfare of the Physically Impaired" to show the creativity of balloons during specific 
time slot at the main exhibition site. The drum band of Chin Ai National Primary School was also invited to perform a drum 
performance to encourage the local folk art of Nantou. Besides, Chunghwa Telecom provided 250 international call telephone 
cards so that the spouses and workers from foreign countries can hear the voices of their loved ones.57Listen to the Customers
Initiated Disaster Emergency Communication
With experiences learned from past disaster relief, we have established multi-route transmission, backup routing with 
wireless sensor and higher capacity (good for 72 hours) backup battery in remote areas, so that the remote areas will 
not be isolated from communication with the outside world due to power outages caused by natural disaster.
To intensify our disaster response capability, we have conducted simulation for network and equipment dispatch and 
repair every year. And we take a decentralized base station plan to prevent service interruption, when circuit/power 
outage or equipment failure in any base station, its neighboring base station will be able to maintain its operation.
When disaster struck and caused communication interruption, we will, based on actual circumstances, provide small 
microwave dish, satellite or mobile base station to maintain the communication of the affected areas. In the unique 
geographical location with single exit/entrance such as Suhua Highway, we provide duplex base stations to cover 
service areas, so that a failed base station will be covered by its paired base station to maintain normal communication.
Upgrade Disaster Reporting System
Sought to minimize the impact of disasters, Chunghwa Telecom’s “Emergency Response SMS System” sent out more 
than 400,000 SMS alerts in 2014. Its role in disaster prevention and notification is outstanding.
Other government agencies have also sorted out hundred of zones of potential disasters, in the event of an emergency, 
an SMS will be sent to alert the people to prepare for possible situations for the protection of their lives and properties.
Drills for the Prevention and Rescue in Disasters
Chunghwa Telecom supported the Water Resource Agency of MOEA in the activation of the “Early Warning of 
Flooding System”, the NCC in the “2014 National Armed Forces Disaster Prevention and Rescue Exercise Drill”, 
and the county and city governments in exercise drills for the prevention and rescue in disasters.
Nuclear Security No. 20 Exercise Drill
Chunghwa Telecom assisted Taiwan Power 
Corporation to organize the “Nuclear Security No. 
20 Exercise Drill”. With the use of the “Disaster 
Emergency Information Reporting System”, voice 
broadcasting has been conducted within the 
perimeter of 3 km from Nuclear Plant No. 2 for 
4,800 times. In addition, an SMS has been released 
covering the perimeter of 8 km from the nuclear 
facility, including the township and villages in New 
Taipei, Keelung, and Taipei for 83,000 times. 
58Marketing Service and Training
Chunghwa Telecom spares no effort to refine and upgrade its service quality thereby built up the "Learning 
Organization". With multilateral customer service value network, matched with the integrated customer service 
information service system and training, the company created even better service quality and customer value. In 2014, 
Chunghwa Telecom won the championship among other telecommunication service providers in the "Five-Star Award" 
in the front-line service quality survey conducted by the "Global View Magazine".
Furthermore, the customer service staff of CHT, Miss Lai Yu-Chen, heard the needs of the customer and provided hearty 
and distinguished service to the customer. She was cited as the "Gold Award Service Personnel of the Year" by "Global 
View Magazine". 
Chunghwa Telecom has 15 customer service centers and about 3,900 customer service personnel across Taiwan. They 
are responsible for online service and consumer service of the Call Centers. For providing timely solution for the queries 
of the customers, we have invested tremendous resources in training in the aspects of sales, information protection, 
service, and communication skills. 
Channel Content
Live Web Chat 
ServiceFor Instant Message (IM) users and for persons with hearing impairments, we have introduced text-based live 
web chat customer services; which has covered all the Chunghwa's business
Internet 
CommunitiesTo serve the ever-growing Internet community populations, we created a Facebook fan page “Chunghwa 
Telecom Dr. Q” to answer questions, proactively publish information, and to gather suggestions.
Web Call CenterTo save our customers the trouble of calling and visiting counters, we are increasing the scope of self-help 
services provided through the web call center.
Mobile Customer 
ServiceIn response to the ever-increasing smart phone users, we started to provide mobile-optimized network 
customer service center from June 2013, when users login network customer service center, the system will 
take it to mobile-optimized web interface automatically.
Customer Service 
AppStarting from November 2013, we provide free customer service App download on iOS and Android 
system. As of end of 2014, more than 79.2 thousand users had downloaded the App and more than 17.6 
million services were provided.Multi-Channel Services2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014Total Personnel Participated in
 Training
Unit: person Unit: hours Unit: hoursTotal Training Hours Average Training Hours
9,834 9,69010,909213,650 216,431 217,097
21.72 22.319.959Listen to the Customers
Introduce Exquisite Service
By challenging itself and achieving excellence, Chunghwa Telecom strives to provide exquisite services with efficient 
and convenient qualities. By creating a customer-oriented culture and acquiring expertise in the field of ICT, we are 
dedicated to providing heart-touching services with sincerity, genuineness, attentiveness, patience and caring.
Professional service: Emphasis on new technology equipment to generate new demand from customers. We  ●
established a professional technical service team to provide instantaneous, customized, and competent service.
SGS Qualicert: In stores, not only do we apply our SGS Qualicert international service qualification but we also seek  ●
Consultancy Company’s advice and move towards exquisite services, we have mystery customer to identify any 
weakness in our customer services. 
Service standard at clerk counter: We have designated internal consultant to help personnel to provide customers  ●
with dedicated and heart-warming service with professional touch.
Touching service: To motivate personnel to provide best services to exceed customers’ expectation, we have ●
 established “Touching Service Arena” to record excellent services for others to share and learn.
Serve	a	Helpless	Mother	to	Fulfill	the	Dream	of	Her	Late	Son
Mrs. Huang, who lost her only son at a young age, called the customer service of Chunghwa Telecom for help. She wished to 
keep the phone number and change the title of the owner to her son for his 20th birthday.
The last two digits of the cell phone number were 11 for the father, 22 for the mother, and 33 for the son. All the numbers 
were registered under the tile of the father previously. The only son of Mrs. Huang, when he was still alive, wished to change 
the phone number under his own title when he turns the age of 20. Mrs. Huang strongly desires to keep the phone number 
so that she could call that number when she misses her late son just to image that he is still alive. She was sad and anxious. It 
came to the attention of -Yee, the customer service staff who happened to answer the call of Mrs. Huang. 
Miss Tsai heard everything. She comforted Mrs. Huang, and made series of calls for help from the service center. She shared 
the sorrow of Mrs. Huang, and never ceases to send an SMS and courtesy call to Mrs. Huang in any festivities and the Chinese 
New Year. With the efforts of different functions of the company, Mrs. Huang got what she wanted.
With a thankful heart, Mrs. Huang, who is ailing, still brings along a thank you note written by herself and gifts to the Cheng 
Kung Service Center at Tainan to express her gratitude to Miss Tsai. For Tsai Shu-Yee, she just holds that the very attitude of a 
customer service staff is to "treat all customers as your own relatives". She wishes she could keep Mrs. Huang company to pass 
through her desperate life.
60Satisfaction Survey of “Corporate Consumer” and “Average Consumer”
To understand the satisfaction of Chunghwa Telecom’s services and 
the recognition of our corporate image, brand value and service quality, 
we designate external market survey company to conduct consumer 
satisfaction survey on “average consumer”, “SME (small and medium 
enterprise) consumer and “large enterprise consumer”, thereby identifying 
the issues and expectations of most concern to consumers and as the target 
of our future endeavors.
We deliver the consumers’ opinions and suggestions to product and 
business personnel including risk management and public relations 
department through consumer opinion reporting system. Moreover, regular 
review meetings are convened by product management and customer 
service team in order to meet consumers’ expectations.Ensure Customer Satisfaction
To ensure that consumers’ need is satisfied, we conduct customer satisfaction survey for Chunghwa Telecom service 
center, customer service hotline and installation & repair service every year so that we can provide the best possible 
service and continuous improvement on our services.
In addition to regular consumer satisfaction survey conducted by third party, we also accept NCC’s service quality 
survey on telecom carriers on the regular basis. The results show that our performance is significantly better than the 
standard requested by NCC.
Item Target Performance
Landline Connection Rate ≥ 95.6% 99.89%
Interruption Rate of Mobile Phone Communication ≤ 3%2G: 0.57%
3G: 0.35%
Packet loss % in Data Transmission
* Measured on the basis of the customer -end HGW in 2014/10/01~12/31≤ 3% 0.0129%
Large Enterprises Small and Medium Enterprises Average Consumer
* 10 point scale
* Chunghwa Telecom will request relevant functional units to conduct further analysis.9.51 9.55 9.53
8.38 8.55 8.41
7.30 7.23 7.19
2014 2013 2014 201320142013 2012 2012 2012
61Listen to the Customers
Customer Service Satisfaction of Call Center
We conducted a customer satisfaction survey by internal staff and external parties in 3 categories of call center on air 
to ensure the demand of the customers online be met with proper response and service.
Satisfaction 
Category Source 1
Dialing out manually from our call centers in 
3~7 days.(out of the full score 
of 5 marks)4.6
(out of the full score 
of 5 marks)4.6Source 3
Entrust Chunghwa University to 
mail out questionnaires once a 
year.(out of the full score 
of 10 marks)7.6
Source 2
Automated surveys by the CTI 
system in 30 minutes.62Comprehensive Consumer Complaint Management
Our target is to complete customer complaints within three business days. To ensure an open, result-driven complaint 
resolution process for customers, our service hotline processes passed ISO10002: 2004 (Guidelines for Handling Customer 
Complaints), and we are the first domestic operator in the industry to pass such an international standard certification.
Besides customer service hotlines, customers can file their complaints through our website or PR hotline (02-2344-6789) 
authorized by our chairman. After cases are opened, they are passed to the customer complaints handling task force 
to be processed as urgent cases. Customers can enquire into case dates at any time via telephone and our customer 
complaints handling task force will inform customers of the latest updates on their cases.
If the dispute is caused by system failure, and incurred the additional charges, Chunghwa Telecom will keep the billing 
system transparent, and voluntarily inform the consumer being affected. In addition, the cause of the problem and the 
response to the problems will be sent to the customer service staff via a special hotline so that they understand the 
event and can provide timely and proper answers to the consumers upon request. This will help to reduce customer 
complaints.
Chunghwa Telecom works in cooperation with relevant functional units to establish a system for detecting potential 
customer complaints and related improvement measures so as to bolster customer satisfaction. With the effective 
control under this system, the customer compliant rate of Chunghwa Telecom was the lowest as stated in the NCC 
"Communication Consumption Complaints Monitoring Report" of 2014.
Item 2012 2013 2014
Fixed Network 
(case)0.81 0.61 0.53
Mobile (case) 1.95 1.55 1.20
Data (case) 1.27 0.88 0.45Complaints from Each Million Consumers
KPI 2012 2013 2014
Customer Service Response within 20 
Seconds84.1% 78.4% 74.0%
Service Satisfaction (5 marks for full score) 4.58 4.59 4.6
Settlement	Rate	with	the	first	call	 78.4% 77.9% 78.5%Customer Service Hotline KPI
* Conducted a trial run on reducing the level of service hotline at 5~10%.
* Due to the launch of 4G and other factors, the traffic volume of mobile phone from January to November (2013) skyrocketed by 
24%, and the shortage of human resources that could not be filled resulted in the service level of the customer service hotline fell 
below standard and behind target. 
Lowest Average Cases of Customer Complaints
According to data on mobile communication customer complaints compiled by the NCC in 2014, which is based on the 
complaint rate per every millions of users, Chunghwa Telecom is the service provider with the least complaints! This 
result demonstrated the effort of Chunghwa Telecom in customer service in the long run and the successful upgrade in 
telecommunication service quality.
Complaint Rate Per Every Millions of User
Unit: case/million users
182
Chunghwa Telecom Competitor A Competitor B Competitor C Competitor D26932149458063Listen to the Customers
Phase Content of Operation
Communication and 
Assessment PhaseA number of factors will be considered, such as the population size of the region, the clustering density 
of people, the area of electromagnetic wave coverage. In addition, the consent of the residents is usually 
obtained under the facilitation of the management committees or the local district representatives.
Installation PhasePresent the information on the base stations planned to install to NCC for licensing, review, and joint 
inspection. Equipment will be installed after passing all the aforementioned procedures.
Pre-operation PhaseConduct emergency telephone test as required, and also the route tests to validate the function and 
coverage of the equipment.Procedure for the Installation of Base StationsAlleviate Public Concerns in Electromagnetic Radiation
According to a research report released by the WHO, there is no incriminating evidence from the perspective of science 
that electromagnetic waves are harmful to the health of humans. In consideration of the anxiety of customers, Chunghwa 
Telecom still strictly conforms to the safety standard set forth by the competent authority, and installs the mobile 
communication system with equipment conforming to related safety regulations. The same applies to our procurement 
of mobile communications products, which specific absorption rate (SAR) of electromagnetic waves must be 
complying with the limit set forth by NCC. In addition, we also sponsor the Taiwan Electromagnetic Industry-Academia 
Consortium NTD 500,000 annually on the study of the influence of electromagnetic waves on the health of humans.
For installation of base station on lands of public 
buildings or private property of big enterprises 
through leasing, Chunghwa Telecom will engage in 
joint installation with other telecommunication service 
providers to keep the environment intact and avoid 
irregular erection of antennae, which will affect the 
landscape of the buildings.System Independent Station Shared Station
4G 5.3% 94.7%
3G 9.2% 90.8%
2G 30.8% 69.2%Types of Base Stations Installed by CHT
* Installed on existing buildings
NCC passed the "Amendment to the Regulations Governing the Installation and Use of Base Stations by Mobile 
Communication Service Providers" in 2013. This change made the landscape design of base station legalized. In 2014, 
about 70% of the antennae were designed for such purpose. In addition, the Legislative Yuan also passed the "Inclusion 
of the release of public property or lands for the Installation of base stations as a part of the performance evaluation 
for annual disclosure". Such legislation will help to improve the quality of communication and reduce the proportion of 
installing base stations at private property.
Education of Electromagnetic Wave
In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom worked in conjunction with the Taiwan Telecommunication Industry Development 
Association (TTIDA) to hold 3 sessions of the "Symposium on Mobile Communication Electromagnetic Waves" so as to 
introduce the proper concept of electromagnetic waves to the public.  The public may still request for a detection and 
measurement free of charge if they have an anxiety of electromagnetic waves. In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom has handled 
232 cases in detection and measurement of electromagnetic waves.
We also commissioned the TTIDA to hold training sessions for the front-line engineering staff. They will be trained in 
communication skills to prevent possible dispute with the public in performing their duties.64Fraud Prevention
In 2007, Chunghwa Telecom assisted the government to establish the 165 Anti-Fraud Consultation Hotline to support 
the police authorities to fight fraud and to protect the property of the public. 
Resources 
Committed In 2014, there was an average of 9 customer service personnel that joined the service in a month for working with  ●
the Criminal Investigation Policy Bureau in concerted effort in front-line duties from Monday to Friday. 
"Disconnection Service Fraud Prevention System" offers the information on suspected telephone gimmick for  ●
cheating customer information by telephone and timely settlement of the problem. An average of 3 customer 
service personnel participated in the program monthly.
Prevention 
of Fraud 
from 
Internet/
Mobile 
DevicesAt the time when mobile communication is prevailing, criminal gangs use bogus SMS to trap the consumers to click 
to connect to unidentified links, or download unidentified malicious programs, or, they forge the Line account of a 
friend or relative of the user so that the consumers are not alert to the messages and responses to the instruction 
of gangs, with small amounts of money stolen or their account password hacked.
To prevent this fraud, Chunghwa Telecom started to introduce the two-way confirmation function of small amount 
payment in 2013. In March 2014, Chunghwa Telecom even introduced warning messages in the content of the two-
way confirmation message. Fraud conducted through mobile devices reduced significantly In 2014.
* As per the request of NCC, the defaulted small payment function has been shut down since July 2014. If you have such need, 
 please bring along your identification documents to our service center.
Digital and You – Reduce Negative Impacts
Customers can use our services without worries only by eliminating the potential negative impact of 
telecommunications services. We also provide the following services:
Junk MailBy using a HiNet mailbox, customers can enjoy free webmail service. Through a simple setup, users can 
decide whether questionable e-mail will be automatically deleted in the future.
Adult 
ContentAdult Content: Provides K12 mailbox forced isolation, HiNet Adult content gatekeeper, and mobile 
internet adult content security guard keep children and teenager far away from harmful websites.
Usage Time 
ControlUsage Time Control: “HiNet Online Time Management Service” and mobile phone “3G Talk without 
Worry” programs, give parents effective control on mobile phone and online status.
65Listen to the Customers
Internet Safety for Youth Population
As the "Internet" has emerged as an indispensable factor of modern life with the abundance of content and information 
enriching your life, unwanted social problems also surfaced. For a long time, Chunghwa Telecom has appealed to 
the advocacy of "Internet health for children". Through the elements of "service, education, and culture", Chunghwa 
Telecom conveys the message on the correct attitude of surfing over the Internet to solve the addiction to the Internet 
of youth and children. 
In wielding its core competence, Chunghwa Telecom unveiled the “Internet connection time control service" and 
"pornography watcher" service. Parents can manage the information viewed by their children with the help of 
technologies. In so doing, we may mitigate the negative impact of the Internet on the younger generation and give 
them more protection.
At the end of 2014, Chunghwa Telecom also aligned to the trend of the application of App by offering "Mobile Health 
for the Internet" service to assist the parents to manage the use of mobile devices of their young children at home for 
improving family harmony. 
Stakeholder Participating Partner Method
Aboriginal YouthsTaiwan Aboriginal Culture 
Promotion Association There were 4 events being held on subjects including pornography watching, 
surfing time management and anti-virus and hacking. Some 400 participants 
joined the events.
Students in SchoolTaiwan Telecommunication 
Industry Development 
Association Redesigned the script of the play and performed by "Hung Sheng-Chi Glove 
Puppetry Opera" with the play "The Third Prince Surfing at the internet". This 
is a brand new interpretation of traditional glove puppetry that provided 
education and entertainment at the same time for conveying a message on 
the healthy use of the Internet. Some 500 participants were in the events. Major	Result	of	the	Education	on	Health	Surfing	on	the	Internet	
66 67 66 67
StrategyChunghwa Telecom is committed to "the peace of mind of all employees" and respects 
each and every employee regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, or religion. 
ManagementEnsure all employees enter into a formal "employment agreement," duly observes the Labor 
Standards Act and other applicable laws, and calls for labor-management meetings at 
regular intervals.
ActionEstablished Telecommunication Training Institute to be designated for employee  ●
training.
Advocacy of Happiness in Working at CHT. ●
ResponseResponse to the protests of outsourced workers.
TargetSupport good people and allows all employees to share the results of operations to realize 
happiness.
Indicator
A Safe and Healthy Workplace
The basic salary offered by Chunghwa Telecom is 1.5 times the minimum wage in Taiwan.
Employee satisfaction survey on “Employee Happiness” with overall scoring of 78 marks.
Per Capital Training Hours: 48 hoursGRI
GRI
GRI66 67 66 67Protect Employee Rights
Chunghwa Telecom regards employees as the most valuable assets and 
partners. We are dedicated to construct comprehensive mechanism to ensure 
that employee rights is not violated, at the same time, establishing healthy 
working environment where employees are able to bring initiative and 
creativity into full play.
Committed to “Let our employees feel at ease”, we respect every employee 
and treat them in an equal manner, in this way, employees will be indifferent 
of their gender, age, ethnic groups and religions. In a proactive manner, we 
care about our employees’ needs, health, safety, freedom of association 
rights and right to providing feedback, we also continuous to strengthen the 
communication and conversation mechanism with our employees.
A Competitive Compensation System
In terms of recruitment, entry-level employees of the same category 
enjoy the same level of compensation, and experienced employees are 
compensated based on their education, expertise and certification.
To provide competitive remuneration to potential employees, we 
have formed “Remuneration Committee” and distribution measures 
for remuneration of top management, to carry out remuneration 
institutionalization and disclose the same in annual report.
Further to the protection of the rights and privileges of shareholders, 
Chunghwa Telecom also seeks to feed back operation performance to 
employees. In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom has the ratio between the top 
salaries to the median at 5.68:1.
Average salaries of Chunghwa Telecom
2014 Taiwan base salary19,2732014 average salaries of the telecommunications industry47,30065,000
Base salary of Chunghwa Telecom1.5 timesCompetitive Compensation of Chunghwa Telecom
*according to Executive Yuan Directorate-General of BudgetG4-54
Unit: NTD
A Safe and Healthy Workplace68Human Resource Structure
* All employees are Taiwanese.
Under age of 
30
Age of 30~50
Age over 50
New 
Recruits
 Aboriginal 
Employees286 54
Turnover 
RatioTotal Employees
23,535
4611,2223.2%5,062585
3,5241.1%244
2,898G4-10
Unit: person
16,869
6,66669A Safe and Healthy Workplace
Senior
Executives
Intermediate
Executives
Basic-levelExecutives
Disabled 
Employees
76330% 70%15% 85%6% 94%11% 89%
Human Resources Structure of Honghwa Subsidiary in 2014
Full-time employees: 3,402 person
Age over 50 11 4
Age of 30~50 739 628
Under age of 30 740 1,280
Disabled Employees 6 6
Aboriginal Employees 24 2
The make up of contractor 
of Chunghwa Telecom  
outsourced business 27.2% 72.8%
44.1% 55.9%
20142013 Honghwa
HonghwaOther
Other70Gender Equality and Diversity
Chunghwa Telecom highly treasures human rights at the workplace, and thereby properly implemented relevant human 
resources system, measures or activities in accordance with applicable law and the cautiously instituted internal code 
of the Company. For the realization of equal opportunity for employment between male and female employees, the 
Company also developed the function for the prevention and handling of sexual harassment.
We have established the “Complaint Investigation and Evaluation Committee” designated with the mission of handling 
complaints on discrimination and other improper behaviors at workplace. The committee is consisted of 5 persons (3 
females) with more than half of the seats occupied by women members. With the effective control and function, there 
is no discrimination.
According to Article 38 of the People with Disabilities Rights Protection Act, Chunghwa Telecom should employ 220 
persons with disabilities. In fact 763 such employees were actually hired, 3.47 times higher than the legal requirement. In 
2014, we employed 46 aboriginals, and properly respect their unique cultural traditions.
Labor Union -Institutionalize Employee Rights
Agreement with a labor union, Chunghwa 
Telecom has complied with domestic regulations 
and the requirements of the international human 
rights convention, which demonstrated its 
determination in protection employee rights. In 
2014, 99.9% of employees were unionized, while a 
labor director seat was added to corporate board 
of directors to voice on behalf of all employees.
Since the implementation of “Amendment of 
Union Law” in 2011 to include the expansion 
of exercising the rights of labor solidarity and 
specify the type and organization of labor union, 
in addition to Chunghwa Telecom’s labor union, additional approved corporate labor unions include North district 
branch, South district branch, Mobile district, Kaohsiung branch office and affiliated company. In 2014, the major issue 
discussed in the labor union was the overall upward salary adjustment of employees. The management communicated 
with the labor union under the spirit of transparency for positive interaction to ensure harmonious labor-management 
relation.
The Protection of Labor Right
For the protection of employee rights, we strictly follow legal regulation and all employees enter into a formal labor 
contract with the Chunghwa Telecom. For those who have served for more than three months, but less than one year; 
more than one year, but less than three years; and more than three years, a ten, twenty, or thirty-day notice period 
is respectively in force. We also hold explanation session and labor-management conference to maintain a harmony 
company operation.
With introduction of Golden Handshake along with certain employees’ personal career planning, a total number of 1,022 
employees were retired in 2014 and a retire rate of 4.3%, the manpower structure remain stable. However, to enhance 
the establishment of broadband network, strengthen ICT technology and the promotion of cloud, value-added and 
channel business, we continue to educate new talents and recruited 340 employees in 2014.
G4-1171A Safe and Healthy Workplace
YesSmooth Communication Channel
In order to listen to the voices of employees, we constructed variable employee communication channels to ensure 
that employee needs and suggestions are delivered. In addition, any violations or illegal conducts can be reported to 
the Company through hotline, fax and email. The admissible cases are investigated through relevant regulations and 
procedures, and the violation cases will be penalized accordingly to ensure that employees acting in accordance with 
company policy, respect company principle, maintain company image and ensure that shareholders rights are protected. 
In 2013, no human right violation cases were reported
Labor-Management Meeting is convened on the regular basis, 9 representatives from both sides are participated in 
the meeting and each takes turn to chair the meeting. The Chunghwa Telecom Chairman and President hold regular 
Channels for Complaints
Information on the channels and hotlines for the employees 
in filing complaints could be found at the CHT intranet 
portal (http://eip.cht.com.tw)/Employee zone.
 
Administering body: the Human Resources Division of the 
Corporate Headquarters
Mailing address: Room 503, the Corporate Headquarters 
Building of CHT, No. 21-3, Section 1 Xinyi Road, Taipei
Complaints Hotline: 0800-080998
Fax number for report and filing complaints: ( 02)23570007
E-mail: chthr@cht.com.tw
Complaint Handling Process
Sources of 
ComplaintsDivision 
ChiefRelated 
Functional UnitsCorporate Headquarters, Business Groups, 
Laboratories, HR of Business Office
EndReport to the chief for 
final	approval71
Complaints or reports with real 
name of informants 3External 
insitution/partiesIdentify the nature of the complaints 
and refer to related departments
2Auditing Committee or 
other functional units 
for action
2
Report to the chief 
for	final	approval
Refer from immediate
superior for action
Complaints 
and reports
Routine 
operation audit
Media reportException of 
content
4
No
(filing)
Disciplinary action
6None
(filing)Study on the content 
of the case
5Start
Voluntary actionmeetings and telephone conversations with the Union 
to maintain proper labor-employer communication 
channels. The Director General of Chunghwa Telecom 
labor union is invited to the meeting, participates in the 
evaluation meeting and business report to ensure that 
employees understand company operation.
There were 6 labor-management meetings held at the 
regional level in 2014 with the addition of 1 special 
session. Consensus has been reached for a number of 
issues. Furthermore, there were 5 meetings related to 
the working conditions of the labor force being held 
with the amendment to the guidelines of the Company 
regarding accidents to the employees.G4-57,G4-5872
Training and Development
Chunghwa Telecom promotes ”Incubating of innovative talents from internal + External environments“ with business 
philosophy of “Emphasizing Professions, Focusing on Expertise, Enhancing Efficiency, Touching Service”. In response to 
the changing times, Chunghwa engages in emerging social networks, provides innovative products and services on the 
continuous basis to show positive momentum to lead the industry into tomorrow land.
Chunghwa Telecom has a viable system for training with “analysis of needs” and “detail-oriented planning” before 
proceeding to training. Training programs are designed in line with the annual plan with evaluation and review after the 
training so that the employees can learn the kind of knowledge and skills they needed through systematic learning.
To help the career development of our employees, we have established variable job training systems to enhance 
work efficiency and utilization of human resources. We offer diversified internal training courses for employees with 
different positions and business natures. In addition, each institution has its own talent training team to promote the 
planning and execution of talents and the planning and development of employees.
Chunghwa Telecom Telecommunication Training Institute
Chunghwa Telecom has established online training in 19 systems including marketing with about 870 professional 
subjects designed for the training of the management staff with management skills at different levels so that they 
can learn relevant professional skills, improve service attitude and overall work performance, and also the capacity 
in corporate management. In 2014, training in professional skills has been held for 96,251 persons/days and training in 
management skills has been held for 4,635 persons/days.73A Safe and Healthy Workplace
Diversified	Learning	Channels
Telecommunication Training Institute provides a diversity of channels for leaning to meet organizational needs, 
personal interest and personality traits of employees so as to help them develop their professional skills in depth and 
refine their management skills. These help to bring about growth and proper career development of employees. 
Employees can receive training at the Telecommunication Training Institute (in a classroom environment) during 
regular hours and in the evening or on holidays. Telecommunication Training Institute can also dispatch tutors to 
relevant business units for organizing training. Distance and online learning is also possible through telecommunication 
technologies. Employees can also use their library facilities for self-learning, or learning outside the Company.
With comprehensive training mechanism, Chunghwa Telecom conducts “pre-training analysis” and “detailed planning” 
and post training performance evaluation for its employees, in hope, with the mechanism, to help its employees to 
grow and acquire expertise and skills systematically.
IP
Technology
ALU NG SDH
ISO 27001
CDCP Data 
Center
SCWCD, 
MCITP
WBSA 
Marketing 
Specialist
Service
Center 
Manager
iEN,
CMVP
NGN IMS
Mobile
Telecom &
Value-added
Service
Broadband 
Communication
LPI Linux
SCJP
Project 
Management 
Professional
Technician
for Chain 
Store Service Professional	Certification	Program74New Employee Training
Chunghwa Telecom has instituted the “Guide to Orientation and Training of New Employees” in 2014 so as to allow 
all new employees understand the corporate vision, philosophy and value, and corporate culture of the Company 
the extent to which new employees can adapt to the environment and regulation of the new workplace. In addition, 
the system of supervisors to the new employees was also established. In responding to the age of digital learning, 
Chunghwa Telecom also arrange e-Learning programs for the employees. The content of the training covers the 
introduction to the Company, rules and regulations governing the telecommunication industry, fundamentals of laws, 
code of conduct of employees, instruction of works in the functional departments so as to help the new employees to 
attune to the new rules of the workplace.
Evaluation of the Training Result
Telecommunication Training Institute has surveyed on the satisfaction 
of the training and the opinions of the participants in the training after 
each training program has been held so as to understand the satisfaction 
of the participants over the quality of teaching and for meeting the 
needs of employees better. The result of the survey will be sent to 
relevant departments for follow-up and making improvement.
In addition, surveys will be conducted on 9% of the training programs 
selected from the trainings in 3 months with specific training periods 
and applicability to work by sending questionnaire to the participants in 
training and their supervisors. The training programs will be adjusted as 
suggested in the feedback to ensure the quality of training and assess if 
the training is effective.
Fair Assessment Mechanism
Chunghwa Telecom has instituted the “Employees Performance Evaluation
Guidelines” which are applicable to all employees so as to evaluate the 
performance of employees and develop the corporate culture where 
employees, customers, shareholders, and the Company are winners. For 
a particular employee who is underperforming, the Company will give supervision to guide their corrective action and 
keep track on the correction until improvement is made under appropriate procedures. The performance bonus and 
employee bonus of the Company are linked to the performance evaluation of employees.
Reward System at All Levels
Evaluation is conducted by interviews between supervisors and employees. An individual objective will be set at the  ●
beginning of the year with regular and interim evaluation and tracking, and the contribution value at the end of the 
year so that performance evaluation could be fairly conducted the extent to which the operation performance of the 
Company can be upgraded. Also, supervisors will discuss the career planning of employees in their interviews and give 
them recommendation in the training necessary for the fulfillment of their career plans for the next year.
For the effective evaluation of employee performance, creation of the corporate culture where employees, customers  ●
and shareholders are winners. Chunghwa Telecom has instituted the “Employees Performance Evaluation Guidelines”. 
For a particular employee who is underperforming, the Company will give supervision to guide their corrective action 
and keep track on the correction until improvement is made under appropriate procedures.
75A Safe and Healthy Workplace
Security Guards Training
In the training of security personnel in 2014, the education 
on legal rules and regulations governing occupational 
safety and health at workplace and basic martial art skill, 
fire safety and alert system, vehicles and personnel passage 
control, personal information protection, the intensification 
of entrance code to the depot, and the basics during 
routine operation. Training is planned to hold once a month 
and 12 training sessions will be held in one year and each for 
Innovative thinking ●
Logic thinking ●
Systematic thinking ●
Interdisciplinary knowledge application ●
Group innovation management and  ●
esthetic sensibilities
Invention, patent search and analysis ●
IFRSs study ●
Financial management ●
Presentation skill ●
Leadership and   ●
performance management
Communication and ●
negotiationskill
Risk management ●Webpage design ●
Database management ●
Programming ●
Software engineering ●
Cloud computing ●
App development ●
2 hours. A total of 24 hours of training will be given with about 720 security personnel participating in the training.
Provide Training Course for Enterprise Client
Our Telecommunication Training Institute also provides enterprise client different kinds of training course, such as:
Core Capability
▉Innovative and Logical Thinking
Management Capability
▉LeadershipSpecialty Capability
▉Software and Programming76Academic Talent Training
We provide Summer Internship Program for 13 students from National Tsing Hua University, National Chiao Tung 
University, and National Central University. Other than giving wages, we also provide comprehensive training program 
to allow students to combine academic and practice and achieve excellence along with Chunghwa Telecom.
Chunghwa Telecom has established the “Chunghwa Telecom Southeast Asia Scholarship” for the education of overseas 
talent in telecommunications. With the scholarship, specific funds will be awarded to overseas Chinese students and 
nationals of Southeast Asia studied in the departments of science, engineering, telecommunication and business 
administration related disciplines at National Chiao Tung University with outstanding academic performance. The 
students also have the opportunity to take part in the research and development projects of Chunghwa Telecom, or as 
student workers at the branches of the Company.Training of Professional Talents
Chunghwa Telecom spares no effort in providing its employees a diverse learning environment. Through job rotation, 
project assignment, and overseas assignment, employees can mingle their lives with their career and allow for sharing 
the joy of knowledge growth and creating a better future. Telecommunication Training Institute has facilities in north, 
central, and south Taiwan for planned, systematic, and incremental realization of training.
In addition to functional training, programs in core network technologies, connection technologies, mobile 
communication technologies, value adding service, information technology, corporate management, operation 
management, and human resources management were also provided in 2014. “Senior Management Staff Training 
Course” has also been held for the systematic training of senior management personnel in the future with the training 
of skills in operation, innovation management, and leadership.
In 2014, the total training hours of Chunghwa Telecom’s employees reached 1.12 million hours, and training expense 
reached NT$ 679.17 million. In the meantime, to encourage our employees to engage in lifelong learning, we provide 
training grant up to NT$ 30,000 per semester. In 2014, 740 employees applied for training grant and a contribution of 
NT$ 11.5 million for the employees’ training programs.
2012 2013 2014
Total Training Expense (NT$ million) 752 748 679
Per Capital Training (NT$) 30,888 30,877 28,857
Total Training Hours (hours) 1,855,255 1,413,923 1,129,809
Per Capital Training Hours (hours) 76 58 48Investment in Education and Training
2012 2013 2014
Beneficiary Amount (NT$ million) Beneficiary Amount (NT$ million) Beneficiary Amount (NT$ million)
1,028 16 845 13 740 12Training Grant77A Safe and Healthy Workplace
Occupational Health and Safety
Provide a healthy and safe work environment is Chunghwa Telecom’s commitment. We are the first telecom service 
provider introduced "Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series"(OHSAS 18000). The management of employee 
safety and health is implemented with both a “standardized” and “systemic” approach to improve our operational 
quality and safety level. In addition to telecom job hazard identification and risk evaluation, we adopt restriction 
measures such as work permit to strengthen risk control to prevent the occurrence of any occupational hazards.
We promise to offer appropriate resources based on organizational risk and continue to improve safety and health 
facilities. In this way we prevent injuries and unhealthy practices in accordance with relevant law and regulations. To 
persist the enforcement, we:
Follow the Safety and Health Regulations and Enforce Self-Management. Internalize daily operations as a part of  ●
company culture. We further need to benchmark under relevant international standards to realize safe and healthy.
Implement Hazard Identification and Enforce Risk Control. Identify and evaluate all unsafe and unhealthy practices to  ●
enforce control high-risk operations effectively.
Strengthen both mental and physical health services. Increase the quality of health examinations; conduct health   ●
promotion activities to improve health care and willingness for employees.
Encourage participation through open communications and available consultation; adopt ICT to upgrade performance. ●
Create quality work places, continue on equipment improvement, strengthen safe and healthy practices, hence to  ●
ensure a safe, healthy, comfortable and friendly work place for employees.
Conduct labor safety training programs to raise safety awareness. Conduct on the job labor safety and health training  ●
programs, in accordance with the Labor Safety and Health Act.
Establish Dedicated Management Unit
We have a dedicated “Labor safety and health department” responsible for planning and implementation of labor safety 
and health matters, meanwhile, “Labor safety and health committee” is established and meets quarterly to deliberate, 
coordinate and make suggestions on the issues of labor safety and health.
4 meetings were held in 2014 with 14 proposals 
presented by the labor representatives of which 7 
related to the issue of the improvement of safety and 
health facilities, 4 related to refinement of safety and 
health management, 1 related to training in safety 
and health, 1 related to food hygiene, and 1 related to 
employee benefits.
“Labor safety and health committee” consists of 
26 members, including representatives from each 
department units and labor union as well as technician 
and medical personnel, etc. Among which, 9 members 
are from labor union accounted for 35% of all 
members.
Numbers of Disabilities Frequency of Disabling Severity of Disabling InjuriesOccupational Injuries Rate 
per 1,000 Workers
CHT 13 13 CHT 0.27 0.27 CHT 9 4 CHT 0.53 0.53
Countrywide 11,561 Countrywide 1.65 Countrywide 118 Countrywide 3.42
78Accredited by OHSAS18001
Chunghwa Telecom introduced the “Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series” with the accreditation 
of a third party institution. By the end of 2014, 27 branches have been accredited the OHSAS18001 international 
authentication system. Under the mechanism of “standardized” and “systemic” management, Chunghwa Telecom 
realized health and safety management and upgraded operation quality and safety.
Safety and Health Mechanism
To ensure that employees receive immediate health help when needed, we employed 5 full time occupational health 
nurses and 4 contracted doctors to meet employees’ health needs, and established “health service center” at Xinyi, 
Aiguo and Guoguang Park to provide the following health and safety services, including:
Health education, health promotion and hygiene guidance  ●
Prevention of occupational injuries and general injury, health consultation and first aid and emergency treatment ●
Vaccination and health ●
Assist in the selection of proper job function ●
Analysis of physical and health check record, evaluation, management and maintenance and health management ●
Research report of occupational health and maintenance of injury and disease record  ●
Assist health personnel to implement prevention of occupational disease and improvement of work environment ●
To show solicitude for employees working night shift, we provide overtime pay for non-rotating personnel attending 
night shift, and giving additional rest. In addition, for personnel working elevated operation, we established “I-med” 
system at institutional customer network center to provide daily blood pressure monitoring and management for 
elevated operational employees.
Development of Occupational Health Management Products
To help corporations to comply with relevant provisions of occupational health management and dispatch that required by 
Occupational Safety and Health Act and prevent fatigue and reduce occupational injuries, Chunghwa Telecom provides cloud 
health management service by developing wearable health management device, mobile App and cloud heath care data base, 
to help corporations to establish healthy working environment, benefit employees and improve corporation image.
Chunghwa Telecom “i-health” Occupational Health Management System Functions
Cloud Health
Check ManagementHealth 
PromotionFood and Beverage 
Management
Sport Management
Physiological 
MeasurementAnalysis of Health 
Check Information
Statistics of Abnormality and 
Comparison with Historical RecordManagement 
of Health 
Check ReportHealth 
Improvement 
RatioRegistration of
Health Check
HospitalMultiple Options79A Safe and Healthy Workplace
Lower Occupational Injury
Pursuant to Article III-II of the CHT Guide for Responses to Accidents, the procedure for the assessment of occupational 
diseases has been explicitly stated and read as “Employees of the Company performing different kinds of duties who 
were found unsuitable for undertaking the previously assigned duties due to ailment may, at the diagnosis certification 
of a medical institution, report to the function head and may switch to another workplace or other duties or adjust the 
work load subject to the evaluation and professional recommendation of a designated physician of the Company”. If 
employees are suspected of suffering from occupational diseases, the Company will assist such employees to petition 
with the competent authority at the municipal, county/city level for validation in accordance with the rules and 
regulations governing occupational injury for the protection of laborers.
In 2014, there were 26 cases of occupational hazards, of which 7 occurred in the line of duty and 19 occurred during 
commuting to and from work. For the effective reduction of traffic accidents occurred during commuting to and 
from work, Chunghwa Telecom worked in conjunction with the CHT Training institute to prepare the “Traffic Safety 
Education – Safety and Preventive Driving Chapter”, an e-Learning program for the online learning of employees. At the 
same time, the Company also provided the program of “Case Studies on Accidents Seminar” to reinforce the concept 
and skills of safety and defensive driving for employees.
Based on categorized occupational injury occurred in the past, we conducted detailed statistical analysis focusing on 
prevention of falling accidents, and resolved to improve construction method to eliminate the occurrence of falling 
accidents, relevant measures including:
Prohibitions of working on sites such as roof constructed by asbestos board, metal board, tiles, wood, thatch and plastic. ●
New cable construction route is prohibited to cross over sites such as roof constructed by asbestos board, metal  ●
board, tiles, wood, thatch and plastic. 
Improve the cables of the established scaffolding (such as roof constructed by plastic board, asbestos board and  ●
tiles), total of 9,500 cases were reported in 2014.
Lower the height of the existing distribution junction box (DJ box) to 2.2M, total of 9,600 poles lowered in 2014. ●
For operations of high risk, such as operation at high places and narrow spaces, the Company adopts the system of licensing for 
practice and makes use of its own ICT specialization to research and develop the use of portable camera system to videotape 
down the safety facilities at the site and the wearing of safety gear by the personnel before the operation with relevant 
photographs taken for confirmation. These photographs will be uploaded to the remote monitoring system and will help to 
prevent falling and the potential hazard of lacking oxygen. In 2014, 200 classes of training in different forms of safety and health 
education for upgrading the knowledge and skills of employees in safety and health with 9,290 head counts in the classes.* Injury rate (IR) = Total number of injuries x 200,000/ Number of hours worked by all employees
* Occupational Diseases Rate(ODR)= (Number of Occupational Diseases / Total work hours) x 200,000
* Lost day rate (LDR) = Total loss of work days * 200,000/ Total work hours
* Absentee rate (AR) = Total number of missed (absentee) days/ Total number of workforce days2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014
Injury rate (IR) Occupational diseases rate (ODR)
0.07 0.07 0.05 0 0 0
0.03 0.07 0.05 0 0 0
Total 0.11 0.14 0.11 Total 0 0 0
Lost day rate (LDR) Absentee rate (AR)
2.72 1.94 1.75 0.26% 0.20% 0.22
0.74 2.19 0.81 0.38% 0.41% 0.49
Total 3.46 4.12 2.56 Total 0.29% 0.26% 0.3080Establishing Happy Corporation
A corporation needs happy employees to deliver touching services to consumers. We encourage happy family concept 
thereby creating new high in life, we believe that comprehensive employee protection is the support and strengthen for 
a company to grow. To enhance employee well-being and share business results with our employees, we have Employee 
Stock Ownership Trust available.
Comprehensive Employee Welfare
With “sustainable operation” as target, Chunghwa Telecom has developed a series of training and career development 
measures to retain talents. Our commitment to employees is “no layoffs and no pay cut” to reduce employees’ 
insecurity and allow employees to be dedicated to their work performance. In addition to existing welfare, Chunghwa 
Telecom has established other welfare measures including Employee Stock Ownership Trust compensation, unpaid 
leave with parental subsidy, corporatization special bonus, employee cash and stock bonus.
In respect of employee care, in addition to employee leave, retirement, health care, menstrual Leave, parental leave, 
unpaid leave with parental subsidy, child care measures, child birth subsidy, breast feeding devices, we also offer 
dependent education subsidy, employee travel allowance, funeral subsidy and group insurance.
Item Activities and SessionsParticipant/
BenefitedContribution/
Supplement $
Child Birth Subsidy 
(Company)Company continue to provide subsidy to full term 
after 6 months unpaid leave is matured (up to 1.5 
years)89 NT$ 8,121 thousand
Sports ActivityRegional activities including 15 roads running, 89 
hiking, 69 ball activities and 108 other activities 
(such as employee year-end dinner and travel, etc.)44,960 NT$ 11,693 thousand
Stock Ownership 
TrustImprove employee welfare, enhance employee 
coherence, share company’s achievement and 
establish employee stock ownership committee, 
so that employees’ life quality is guaranteed after 
retirement or resignation20,180NT$ 2,000/person 
per month on 
average
Dependent 
Education SubsidyTwice a year (2 semesters) 26,684118,813 thousand /
Semester on average
Wedding SubsidyWedding subsidy is available for employees got 
married lawfully278 NT$ 695 thousand
Childbirth SubsidyChildbirth subsidy is available for childbirth of 
employees or employees’ spouse563 NT$ 1,407 thousand
Funeral SubsidyFuneral subsidy is available for the death of 
employees’ parents, adopted parents, step parents, 
spouse and children1,377 NT$ 6,885 thousand81A Safe and Healthy Workplace
Employee Health Care
Chunghwa Telecom considers employees health as company’s fortune, providing a safe and healthy workplace is the 
basic requirement of corporate social responsibility. In 2014, our spending on employee health care is NT$ 84,677 
thousand, accounted for 0.04% of the Company’s revenue. Our contribution in relation to employee health including:
Health 
Examination of 
Employees and 
DependentsProvide a health care scheme more favorable than those provided in the Act, a free health examination 
is available for all employees; the health examination fee for 2014 is NT$ 3,500 per employee, and a 
preferential scheme is provided to employees’ dependents. There were 23,332 employees participating in 
the program with 3,589 family members of employees in 2014.
Organized the 
HRV Stress TestIn 2014, the Company took positive action to visit all business locations across Taiwan to conduct the 
scientific stress test with the help of proper equipment so as to understand the capacity of employees 
in withstanding physical and psychological stress and overcome the timidity of the victims for voluntary 
request for help with 1,027 employees responded to the test.
Employee
Assistance
Program As one of the large corporation to introduce Employee Assistance Program (EAP), Chunghwa Telecom has 
started to promote since 2007. EAP offers up to 5 external consulting service in a year, such as attorneys, 
family physicians, financial advisors and psychological counselors, to assist employees to resolve the issues 
of law, medical, parenting, occupational relationship and psychological. In 2014, project consultants were 
invited to the plant with the EAP E-Service platform established. There were 583 instances of services with 
5 instances of in-house consulting service by the consultants.
EAP service is conducted online or telephone appointment. The physicians visited the plant 9 times a month 
and each employee can have 30 minutes for each appointment. The healthcare personnel use the “Employee 
Health Management System” for the analysis and evaluation of the health examination record of employees.  
Care and health education will be given to those falling into the category of risk. Where necessary, 
consultation will be arranged between the physicians and the employees for proper guiding of health and 
healthcare. In 2014, the expenses incurred from health maintenance amounted to NTD 3.5 million.
Statistics of healthcare service in 2014:
Employee Health 
PromotionWe have organized 138 health seminars in 2014 with a total of 8,470 employees participated; 15 sports 
competitions with 612 employees participated. 84 intellectual trips with 8,006 employees participated. 35 
sessions of health examination with 2,956 employees participated and 175 large and community activities 
with 27,213 employees participated. There were 447 instances with 47,257 participants.
Balancing Work 
LifeWith 29 hostels established in 2014, Chunghwa Telecom provides travel accommodation and annual travel 
subsidy of NT$ 8,000 to encourage employees to balance their work life.
Flexible Working 
HoursChunghwa Telecom provides 2 sessions of flexible working hours in the morning and afternoon: 8:00~9:00 
and 17:00~18:00. In addition, variable sites available for employees to enjoy community activities 
including Yoga, ballroom dance, badminton, table tennis, basketball, tennis and swimming.Head count of medical consultation 
with physiciansFrequency of physician
on-site servicePersons/times of 
consultation 
464 108 1,16882Balancing Work and Family
In 2006, to assist employees with balancing their careers and families, we took the lead in implementing unpaid childcare 
leave. Female employees are paid childcare leave benefits equal to half their insured salaries during the leave period 
that may be for up to 2 years. After employees have received the maximum number of monthly employment insurance 
payments from the government, female employees can then begin receiving maternity leave benefits equal to half their 
insured salaries. Family leave, paternity leave, menstrual leave, nursing rooms, etc., are also provided. In 2014, the Company 
has NTD 8 million to the employees as nursery care for their children. There were 173 employees applying for maternity 
leave and 70 employees applying for leave of absence for parental care, and 89 employees applying for nursing subsidy.
Retirement	Benefits
A shareholding trust has been established for the protection of employees after retirement or resignation. A specific 
percentage of incentive bonus will be allocated as per the agreement with the employees in proportion to their 
shareholding on the basis of their monthly salaries. 
Retirement is processed according to the Employee Retirement Pension and Separation Guidelines, the Labor Standards 
Act and the Labor Pension Act. For those who are applied to Labor Standards Act, a maximum pension contribution 
15% is paid to their pension funds each month. For those who are applied to Labor Retirement Act, more than 6% of 
their salary (based on Monthly Contribution Wages Classification of Labor Pension) is withheld for contribution to their 
individual labor pension account. Currently, the pension reserve has asset of NTD 21.3 billion, which is sufficient to pay 
the pension for the retirement of employees in the next year.
For retiree care, Chunghwa Telecom organized “Retirement counseling program” in 2014 and 55 employees participated 
in. A total of NTD 4.5 million was contributed to “Chunghwa Telecom Retirees’ Networking” and an additional of NTD 1.2 
million for retirees’ care. In addition, whereas an abundance of information is available on Chunghwa Telecom Retirees’ 
Networking, the retirees are encouraged to regard it as lifelong learning channel.Item Total
The	Number	of	Qualified	for	UPL	for	Raising	Children	in	2014(A)* 1,022 515 1,537
The	Number	of	Person	Actual	Applied	UPL	in	2014	(B)	* 12 58 70
Application Rate for UPL in 2014 (B/A) 1.2% 11.3% 4.6%
The	Number	of	Reinstatement-to-be	in	2014	(C)	* 7 49 56
The Number of Application for Reinstatement in 2014 (D) 6 35 41
Reinstatement Tate in 2014 (D/C)) 85.7% 71.4% 73.2%
The Number of Reinstatement in 2013 (E) 10 34 44
The Number of Retention Over 1 Year After Reinstatement in 2013 (F) 9 33 42
The Retention Rate in 2013(F/E) 90.0% 97.1% 95.5%Unpaid Parental Leave (UPL) for Raising Children
Note 1:  The number of employees entitled to apply for parental leave of absence in 2014: calculated on the basis of employees who 
 have applied for maternity leave and parental leave in 2012-2014.
Note 2:  The actual number of employees applying for parental leave: total number of employees who were still on parental leave in 2014.
Note 3: The number of employees pending on returning to work after parental leave in 2014: total number of employees applying 
 for parental leave in 2012-2014 – the number of employees applying for returning to duties in 2012 and 2013.83A Safe and Healthy Workplace
Reassignment of Employment for Retirees 
Chunghwa Telecom has established the “Guideline for Employment of Consultants” so as to share the experience 
of the retirees and provide consultation service that makes business development positive. There are two types of 
consultants; consultants with pay and honorary consultants. Executives at the level of vice presidents and higher and at 
level I could be employed by Chunghwa Telecom as consultants with pay after retirement. Consultants with pay have 
term of office for 1 year and will be employed as honorary consultants.
Develop Paid Volunteer
Chunghwa Telecom never stops to encourage its employees to contribute to the society. Since 1985, Chunghwa 
Telecom and its branch offices have initiated social responsibility programs such as “New Hope Project”, “Love and 
Dedication Group”, “Changhua coal team”, “Computer program in Shanlin Tzu Chi Love Create Community, Kaohsiung 
city” to help those who need help. Chunghwa Telecom supports the initiatives proposed by its employees.
In November 2007, Chunghwa Telecom completed the first corporate volunteer guideline and plan based on The 
Volunteer Service Act. In addition to providing paid volunteer leave and volunteer training course , Chunghwa Telecom 
also assists its employees to obtain Volunteer Handbook from Ministry of Interior to ensure that the rights of those who 
accept service is protected, so as to encourage its employees to take the initiative to propose and participate in the 
social activities. In 2014, a total of 49 trained corporate volunteers increased.
Employee Satisfaction Survey
Starting from 2011, we conducted “Chunghwa Telecom job happiness survey” through anonymous online questionnaire 
every year, to listen to employees voice in terms of workplace environment, welfare and remuneration, and understand 
employees’ expectations for a better labor-employee communication.
In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom has commissioned a third party institution to conduct a survey on “Employee Happiness” 
with overall scoring of 78 marks. With positive response to the queries of employees, we made effort to reinforce 
the sense of happiness of employees through substantive feedback, communication, and education. In 2015, we will 
continue to conduct the survey so as to fully understand employees better and create an even more comfortable work 
environment for employees.
201267
201377
201478
84 85 84 85
StrategyFacilitating the greenness of ICT industry (Green of ICT) and greenness of the society 
overall through ICT (Green by ICT)
ManagementUse EARTH system to manage environment data
ActionManagement of key energies ●
Energy saving policy ●
ResponseRespond to the concerns of the stakeholders in the use of renewable energy
Target
Indicator
Create a Green Enterprise
Energy growth volume 5,358,604 GJ
Carbon emission 839,175 t-CO2eGRI
GRIThe increased use of energy for supporting business growth is contained at 2%
Incremental procurement of green product with green products and 
services annual growth rate at 1%Short-term
Long-term84 85 84 85Risks and Opportunities Deriving from 
Climate Change
As a leading telecom carrier in Taiwan and the “big neighbor” of the society, 
Chunghwa Telecom aims growth and sustainable development while 
incorporating environmental issues into business operation and management. 
As a devoting member of the society, we strive to offer environmental 
friendly and energy efficient product and service, in hope to make positive 
contribution on energy and climate change issues, thereby leading the 
development of the next generation low carbon industry.
Floods, storms, earthquakes and droughts caused by climate change have 
endangered people’s wellbeing and sustainable business operation. Chunghwa 
Telecom is committed to alleviating global climate change issues, providing 
low carbon services by lowering environmental footprint of its operations 
and helping society and industry to achieve energy conservation and carbon 
reduction.
Furthermore, facilitating the greenness of ICT industry (Green of ICT) and 
greenness of the society overall through ICT (Green by ICT) is regarded as an 
important strategy when implementing environmental sustainability initiative.
CSR	Fulfill	Environmental	
Protection Vision
Greenhouse 
Gas 
MeasurementCarbon 
Management 
StrategyChunghwa Telecom’s Carbon Strategy
GHG Emission 
Management
Internal External
Renewable 
EnergyProduct 
Development
Solar Water 
HeaterRecycle and ReuseEnergy Efficiency 
Equipment
Energy Efficiency 
ArchitectureOffice Environmental 
ProtectionEnergy Saving 
Services
Replacement of 
EquipmentTree PlantingHome-based 
Work
Green Data 
CenterChanging Office 
PatternsGreen ProductsMobile Phone 
RecycleSupply Chain 
CommunicationEmployee’s 
Environmental 
Protection InitiativeEnhance 
Energy 
EfficiencyEstablishment of Information System
Chunghwa Telecom Carbon Management
Create a Green Enterprise86Green Initiative in Full Swing
As an ICT service provider instead of a manufacturer, Chunghwa Telecom stresses how its product and service affect 
the environment, while developing and offering environmental friendly products and services. Its effort has won a 
number of environmental certification and awards for its products and services. Please refer to page 44~46 of this 
report for details of products.
The “EARTH system” won the “EPIF” International Green Classics Award. ●
Participation in GreenTouch
We have joined formal membership in GreenTouch Consortium, and we continued supporting technology document 
formulation and case study; besides, to contribute toward ICT field and CSR, we continued sharing our energy saving 
findings in GreenTouch conference, IEEE ICCC12 conference, etc.Won the 23 ●rd Environmental Protection Enterprise Bronze
Award.
Chunghwa Telecom Hostels were accredited as environmental ●
friendly hotel and in green living.
Chunghwa Telecom’s “LED light bulb” received BSMI  ●
certification from Bureau of Standards, Metrology & Inspection.
9 divisions and 1 green store of Chunghwa Telecom awarded ●
 “Outstanding Performance in Green Procurement and 
Promotion of green consumption” by the Environmental 
Protection Administration. Chunghwa Telecom has also 
participated in the “Private Enterprises and Group Green 
Procurement” scheme with 6 divisions awarded. The 
Northern Business Division of CHT won the championship 
of “Outstanding Performance in Green Procurement” with 
outstanding performance.20121,835
5.51%
20132,087
5.73%
20141,522
4.37%█ Green procurement amount (NTD million)
█ Accounted percentage of turnover
87Create a Green Enterprise
Environmental Sustainability Management
To achieve green enterprise commitment, respond to energy and climate change and stay on top of green opportunities 
through product and service development, Chunghwa Telecom planned “Sustainable Environment Development 
Strategy and Objective, a five-year plan (2011~2015)”and “five-year energy conservation and carbon reduction plan for 
telecom data center (2012~2016)” in accordance with issues of “environmental protection, energy conservation and 
carbon reduction, green product service and green procurement”, and budgeted annually to promote the initiatives.
Telecommunication is an industry of low pollution. Yet, Chunghwa Telecom realizes that the energy and resources, 
management of dumps, power supply to air-conditioning in the process, base station installation, and the monitoring of 
electromagnetic waves, water and sound pollution in the operation process, and related procurements may affect the 
environment. Positive action for the protection of the environment could be taken only by understanding the impact on 
the ecological environment possibly derived from the operation process of telecommunication service so as to develop 
a viable management procedure and the idea of environmental protection.
All	Branch	Offices	Have	Completed	Certification	of	ISO14001
All the major branch offices including Southern branch, mobile communication branch, northern branch, digital 
communication branch, international branch, Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories and Telecommunication Training 
Institute have obtained environmental management system certification. In other words, 100% of Chunghwa Telecom’s 
revenue is derived from offices that have obtained environmental management system certification.
ISO50001	Energy	Management	System	CertificationEnvironmental Sustainability Policy
Follow environmental regulations and promote self-regulated environmentalism ●
Improve energy efficiency to implement energy conservation and carbon reduction ●
Use green energy and employ green purchase ●
Develop green product and promote green economy ●
Enhance ecological environment and green buildings ●
Apply recycle and waste reduction to build a sustainable environment ●
2012 2013 2014254
0.11%270
0.12%181
0.08%█ Environmental management expense
(NTD million)
█ Accounted percentage of turnoverISO50001 energy management system certification provides 
corporations with process and structure to enhance energy 
efficiency without affecting current operation, while supplementing 
PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Action) mechanism to improve energy 
efficiency and achieve corporate sustainability management.
Digital branch and the research institute have obtained certification 
in 2011 and 2012 respectively, offices governed by mobile 
communication branch including operation offices of Taipei, 
Taichung and Kaohsiung, data center and base station also obtained 
certification in 2013, In 2014, CHT Global, CHT Northern Business 
Group Taoyuan Business Office, and CHT Southern Business Group 
Kaohsiung Business Office were accredited as well.88Energy Saving 
and InnovationDepartmental uploading of energy saving and innovation initiative to encourage employees to learn from each 
other.
Performance 
EvaluationPerformance evaluation is conducted systematically to encourage employees to contribute to environmental 
sustainability actions.
Power 
ManagementRequest centralized payment of electricity bill; currently there are more than 55,829 electricity number and  ●
2 million electricity payment data under management.
Replace TaiPower’s paper bill with electronic bill notification to reduce administrative effort.  ●
Provide electricity summary and analysis to enhance power management efficiency. ●
Water 
ManagementRequest centralized payment of electricity bill; currently there are more than 1,258 electricity number and  ●
72,304 electricity payment data under management.
Document type, method, management department and location of recycling of water resources. ●
Provide electricity summary and analysis to enhance power management efficiency. ●
Carbon 
Emission 
ManagementIn response to the material and regulatory risk of carbon emission, EARTH provides carbon verification form to 
facilitate our carbon measurement and promote carbon reduction measures, thereby reduce operational risk and 
enhance corporate benchmark image. The results showed that ISO14064-1 carbon verification efficiency is largely 
enhanced as 300 men-day operations, traveling expense and carbon emission from transportation is saved.
Fuel 
ManagementTo reach energy efficiency and carbon reduction, we also increased fuel management in 2013, in which we 
incorporated the information of daily gasoline and diesel and analyzed the fuel data of hybrid vehicles and 
ordinary vehicles.
Corporate Tree 
PlantingDocument type, number, management department and location of trees. Manage 250 types of trees planted in 
Chunghwa Telecom Park, including over 67,982 trees data saved in EARTH database.
Recycling 
ManagementDocument type, number and management department of recycling objects. We have recorded 22 recycling 
types and 14,171,396 entriesOrganization for Sustainable Environment Management
For the performance of the “Fulfillment of Environmental Protection in concrete terms, the “CSR Committee” of 
Chunghwa Telecom has established a designated team for managing sustainability of environmental protection, the 
“Sustainable Environmental Development Team”. This team is responsible for the design of the development objective 
from short to long run with substantive action plans in energy saving and carbon reduction, and the inclusion of 
environmental protection issues into the operation plan.
We also strengthen communications throughout the organization and with suppliers at the upper and lower stream for 
joint action in the pursuit of the energy saving related policy. It is echoed with the voluntary actions of the employees 
in environmental protection. The Company has built up a network of low carbon life within the scope of operation with 
the best of its effort.
Environment	Artificer	Theurgy
To manage resources and environmental protection in a more efficient manner, we developed Environment Artificer 
Theurgy (EARTH) system in 2008 to manage in-house electricity, water management, water resources, lighting 
equipment, recycling and tree planting.
Environment Artificer Theurgy has been officially launched to commercial running in 2012 as the corporate 
management system for carbon reduction so as to provide energy saving evaluation and professional diagnosis and 
analysis. Enterprises can directly introduce this service without installing or changing any equipment for energy 
and environmental resources management. This can effectively help the enterprises to save the spending on energy 
consumption, enhance environment management efficiency, and show the result of the enterprises in the pursuit of 
various environmental protection policies. EARTH system features: 89Create a Green Enterprise
Water Resources Management 
Chunghwa Telecom’s water use is sourced from ordinary tap water. In addition to daily use of water, water is utilized 
to cool air conditioner. Water reduction has become an even harder task with the growth of business and increase 
of manpower. In this regard, our water control relies heavily on recycling of rainwater and cooling water. For water 
resources management plan, we have scheduled specific management objective such as promotion of relevant water 
saving measures supplemented by centralized water management and introduction of water resources, in the hopes of 
enhancing the efficiency of water usage.
* From 2014 onwards, Chunghwa Telecom started to reinforce ERATH system, and thereby adjusted the classification of water
 consumption to make the ratio more precise. This helps to control water resources more effectively.
In addition to incorporating leaking detection function into products, we also include water use into EARTH to manage 
and analyze using information, while continuously promoting water saving measures such as recycle and reuse of 
rainwater and wastewater.
The Plan and Objective of Water Resources Management
Currently, Chunghwa Telecom’s annual business growth is 2%, we therefore benchmarking 2012 water usage standard, 
control the annual growth of water usage to no more than 1% and promote water saving measures accordingly, including:
Install sink faucet sprayer to reduce water waste. ●
Replace toilet with dual-flush toilet to reduce flushing water. ●
Limited use of office water supply from 8:00AM to 18:00PM. ●
Insist water conservation principle to prevent water waste. ●
Recycle rainwater for office plants watering. ●
Contact maintenance personnel immediately once water supply equipment is damaged to prevent water waste. ●
Encourage the installation of water reclamation equipment in new buildings, so that the treated sewage water can be  ●
reused for non-potable and physical separated use after reaching certain water quality standard.
Recycling of Water Resources
Started from 2007, Chunghwa Telecom initiated water conservation measures by including water resources 
management into EARTH system, while registering centralized water bill payment through EARTH’s “water bill 
management” function to reduce printing of water bills.
We have scheduled a five-year plan to enhance the effectiveness of water recycling and reusing. In the plan, we are 
expected to establish underground raft foundation water collection system to collect clean rainwater from rooftop and 
ground. Meanwhile, we also initiated recycle of cool-condensed water project for office air-conditioner.
The total of 10,842 square meters of ecological pond were established by each governed institution respectively. By 
beautifying 10,000 square meters of abandoned agricultural reservoir and conducting upstream wastewater treatment, 
Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories has maintained water resources in an effective manner, and created a natural 
ecological lake.Item 2012 2013 2014
Tap Water 657,779 691,907 736,276
Air-conditioner Water 1,849,328 1,891,636 1,830,395
Recycled Water 5,636 4,300 17,158Water Usage Management Performance Unit: ton90GHG Emission Management
The responding strategy of climate change issues and a company’s long term business positioning is closely related. 
In order to reduce climate related cost and risk in value chain and evaluate the result of voluntary carbon reduction 
measures, Chunghwa Telecom initiated “Greenhouse Gas Inventory” in 2008 to carry out on-site verification on major 
emission sources such as telecom equipment, vehicle fuel and motorcycle fuel. A total of 500 manpower efforts were 
contributed and 2 months were spent to complete the project.
Comprehensive Greenhouse Gas Measurement
With the Company overall covered in the scope of measurement control, we are proud to have the most comprehensive 
Greenhouse Gas Inventory in the industry. Under the guidance of “Greenhouse Gas Inventory Promotion Team, we will 
conduct group-wide “Greenhouse Gas Inventory” annually. The Executive Vice President convened “Greenhouse Gas 
Inventory Promotion Team” which covering northern branch, southern branch, mobile communication branch, corporate 
consumer branch, international telecom branch, digital communication branch, Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories and 
Telecommunication Training Institute to conduct Greenhouse Gas Inventory operation.
Initially, our carbon management objective was “reducing greenhouse gas emission to the standard that was acceptable 
in 2007 by 2012”, our effort has largely reduced the greenhouse gas emission and the target was met in 2011. Owing to 
the requirement of increasing mobile communication facilities to respond to the expected 2% annual growth of 4G and 
mobile communication business volume, greenhouse gas emission is expected to rise. We proposed a new greenhouse 
gas management objective in 2013. It is:
The total greenhouse gas emission is 839,174.8 t-CO2e in 2014, including CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs and SF6. As a 
comprehensive telecom carrier, the major energy source consumed by Chunghwa Telecom is electricity, which is 
classified as Scope II (purchased electricity) gas emission and accounted for 97.14% of total gas emission. Scope 1 gas 
emission is normally sourced from general greenhouse gas emission such offices and accounted for2.86% of total gas 
emission.Benchmarking 2012 GHG emission standard, control the annual 
growth of GHG emission to no more than 2%.
Item 2012 2013 2014
Direct GHG Emission(Scope 1) 22,489.1 24,519.2 24,036.0
Energy Indirect GHG Emission (Scope 2) 786,472.2 798,272.3 815,138.8
Total GHG Emission (Scope 1+Scope 2) 808,961.3 822,791.5 839,174.8
Emission Intensity- Emission/Revenue (t-CO2e/NTD million) 3.7 3.6 3.7
Coverage of Revenue 100% 100% 100%
* GHG inventories and certification are followed ISO 14064-1 standard, and the value of Global warming potential is referred to 
 IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (2007). All the data are certified by SGS-Taiwan.Unit: t-CO2e91Create a Green Enterprise
Analysis of Growth of Greenhouse Gas Emission
The rising of greenhouse gas emission in 2014 was due to the introduction of next-generation communication facilities to 
meet the growth of telecom demand and resulted higher electricity usage.
Debut of the Scope 3 Inventory in 2014
Chunghwa Telecom spares no effort in creating a green living environment and encourages all employees to take 
public means of transportation with the aim of incremental expansion of energy saving and carbon reduction into the 
daily lives of the employees. In supporting the international inspection of the trend of GHG emission from commuting, 
Chunghwa Telecom started to discuss the issue of GHG emission volume from employee business traveling. According 
to the standard of “Scope 3” established by WBSCD, the limit for inventory of the mileage has set. In 2014, the total 
emission volume in Scope 3 was 265,481 kgCO2e in the calculation of the means of transportations for employee 
business travelling: primarily the emission of greenhouse gases from land transportation (high speed railway) and air 
transportation (flights).
In addition to learning more about Scope 3 GHG emission, we hope to promote the concept of low carbon commute 
along with environmental education to facilitate employees “ understanding of how business travel may affect 
environment"convey the message of “Low carbon business travelling for a green living environment” to all employees 
“In the long term, we hope to include consumer impact into Scope 3 to complete the perspective of greenhouse gas 
emission measurement.
Annually Report to Carbon Disclosure Project
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) was raised by international corporation investors, and they started to invite companies 
to reply CDP questionnaire since 2003, in order to understand how enterprises face and deal with carbon issue.
In response to the concerns of the international institutional investors over the information on carbon and reduction of 
Chunghwa Telecom, Chunghwa Telecom adopted the world café mode, which is the only telecommunication service 
provider of Taiwan that has participated in CPD for several years consecutively. Personnel in different functions were 
invited to a cross-function/level study for positive response to CDP questionnaire. Further to the positive feedback 
from the questionnaire that show the areas dictated for corrective action, this also helps us to set up an objective for 
carbon reduction. Indeed, this is the vital function beyond the answers of carbon reduction in the questionnaire.Total GHG Emission
265,481GHG Emission
180,294GHG Emission
85,187Unit: kg-CO2e92Power Management
Chunghwa Telecom has incorporated energy conservation and carbon reduction, environmental protection, ecological 
concern and green construction into “five-year energy conservation and carbon reduction plan” to ensure development 
strategy and initiative. In addition, we evaluate and revise energy saving projects on the annual basis within budget 
range, and incorporate the energy outcome into the assessment of “Assessment of administrative management” and 
“Evaluation of maintenance of power and air-conditioning equipment”.
After meeting previous power management goal, we revise our power management target to “Benchmarking 2012 
electricity usage standard, control the annual growth of electricity usage to no more than 2%, in hope to accumulate 
22% energy saving up to 297 million kWh by the end of 2015. Although it is difficult to control the increase in the 
consumption of electric power due to the increase of telecommunication equipment for meeting business growth, we 
pursue different measures from the monitoring of energy saving in the buildings as the starting point, which include:
Differentiate scope of responsibilities, monitor temperature adjustment in office, conference room and classroom. ●
Monitor air-conditioner temperature on 26 ●~28℃, and install automatic temperature control equipment.
Turn off compressor (replace air-conditioning to air supply) 30 minutes before office is vacated to reduce energy  ●
consumption.
Install inverter to control the air conditioning volume of ice water and air conditioning system to save electricity. ●
Install heat sensor switch in the conference room, meeting room, walkways, stairs and washroom…etc., so that the  ●
lights switches on automatically when someone enters.
Replace energy saving tube (bulb) to save 6% energy compare to traditional incandescent lamps. ●
Set power saving mode for business machines, so that the machine enters power saving mode automatically when  ●
idled for 15 minutes. 
Encourage planting or renting plants to afforest office environment. ●
Install energy saving elevator-interconnecting inverter when installing or replacing elevator. ●
Promote electronic operation (electronic billing, electronic documents, e-procurement and electronic meeting) to  ●
reduce resource consumption.
With the pursuit of different energy saving measures and the effective performance control, from the period of 
2007~2014, we have saved up to 257.72 million kWh or 25.43% and reducing carbon by 134,530 t-CO2.
From 2014 onwards, Chunghwa Telecom has reinforced its internal sustainable environment management system 
through precise classification of power consumption management. General power consumption includes: office area 
and employee residence. Power consumption for business includes: base stations, depot, electric welding, and public 
telephone, which are not CHT-owned property.
Power Management Performance
* General consumption mainly includes the power consumption from office building. 
* A=B+C+D, E = Business consumption (C+D) this year - Business consumption last year, F=E/AYearTotal Power 
Consumption 
(A)General 
Consumption 
(B)Business Consumption 
- Meter Rate Lighting 
Service
(C)Business Consumption - 
Flat Rate Lighting Service 
(D)Business 
Consumption 
Increment 
(E)Business 
Consumption 
Increment Rate 
(F)
2007 135,180 9,420 125,151 609 NA NA
2012 139,272 8,912 124,166 6,194 1,977 1.42%
2013 142,580 8,835 127,023 6,722 3,385 2.37%
2014 142,216 8,873 126,128 7,215 -402 -0.28%Unit:10,000 kWh93Create a Green Enterprise
Air-conditioning 
ImprovementChange air speed, remove vent pipe, or disable small air-conditioner to be compatible with new equipment. ●
Use high sensible heat engine when replacing air-conditioner in annual replacement plan. ●
Isolate air-conditioning area of air-conditioner placement to avoid unnecessary air-conditioning usage. ●
Energy 
ManagementMonitor air-conditioning temperature, designate personnel to maintain adequate temperature in different  ●
areas.
Increase data center’s temperature by 1 ● ℃ after one year monitoring.
Unload cooling water tower in accordance with water outlet temperature. ●
Use ventilation for low loading mobile base station, telecom office and power distribution equipment. ●
Introduce renewable energy system such as solar power generation system. ●
Equipment 
ConsolidationCut off disabled equipment and replace bad energy-consumption equipment after the consolidation of  ●
mobile base station, digital switching equipment, transmission equipment, broadband equipment and power 
supply equipment.
Consolidate equipment and isolate unused space to reduce energy consumption. ●Energy Saving for Data Center
In terms of energy saving for data center, it is expected that green building accreditation could be accomplished in 
2016, self-developed iEN (Intelligent Energy Network) is installed in the Banqiao IDC data center to meet energy saving, 
carbon reduction and environmental protection. The measures for ICT data center including:
In addition to using energy saving equipment, automatic power off equipment and introduce energy monitoring system, 
we continue to implement “five-year energy conservation and carbon reduction plan (2012~2016)”, including adjust 
data center temperature, use high efficiency equipment and consolidation of DC load. All the energy data is analyzed 
and managed through EARTH system.
94Industrial Waste
The scrapped lead-acid battery is a recyclable industrial waste regulated by the EPA as. To reduce pollution the 
recycling and disposal operations are outsourced by joint contract based public auction. The contractor must be 
a qualified service provider listed on the website of the Recycling Fund Management Board of the EPA to ensure 
legitimate management and disposal. 
All the lead-acid batteries scrapped by each business unit are auctioned on site and proper documents for their disposal 
are filed for audit tracking. There were 21,790 scrapped lead-acid batteries, sold about NT$ 27,358 thousand with a 
total weight of 1,339,909 kg disposed in 2014.
The public and private waste clearance and disposal organizations recognized by environmental institution is 
designated to handle the treatment of other industrial waste such as cable and hardware miscellaneous.
Type of Waste UnitTotal Quantity Treatment Cost (unit: NT$ thousand)
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014
Plastic-filled	Cable KG 462 803 427
368,081 263,129 191,617Ordinary Cable KG 2,711 3,917 1,851
Hardware Miscellaneous KG 1,454 3,250 1,781
Battery PC 88,395 26,436 24,868Waste Management
Understanding the importance of resources reduction, recycle and reuse, Chunghwa Telecom combined its five-year 
environmental sustainability development plan and EARTH system to manage the use of resources and control energy 
efficiency, while conducting systematic management on recycled and waste treatment as well as encouraging cell 
phone recycling in all branch offices. 
Daily Waste Treatment
Chunghwa Telecom designated professional waste treatment company to transport its daily waste to landfills or 
incinerator for necessary treatment. For recyclable waste, the contracting cleaning company is designated for the 
classification and disposal treatment.
Item 2012 2013 2014
Weight of Daily Waste (unit: ton) 5,018 6,465 9,142
* There is a reclassification after system upgrade, with an increase of household solid waste in current year. 95Create a Green Enterprise
Targeting on Green Enterprise
As a localized telecom carrier, facilitator of community development and important partner of international telecom 
carrier, we strive to become green enterprise. Following the development of technology, telecom carrier is no longer 
as traditional as it used to be, while incorporating Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) into the development and 
application of product and service, business management strategy is integrated with CSR.
Green	Environmental	Hostel	–	Received	HCMI	Certification
Chunghwa Telecom Hostels provide accommodation for employees business or leisure travel. In response to 
environmental protection and personal hygiene, the hostels do not provide disposal consumption goods and towel, 
and implement energy saving measures such as solar water heater, air conditioning heat pump and LED lightings. 
Environmental friendly and tidiness has made 30 hostels island-wide become the employees ‘favorite travel 
accommodation.
In response to Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative (HCMI 1.0) formulated by World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) 
and International Tourism Partnership (ITP) in 2013, we introduced “carbon footprint calculator of hotel rooms” in 
Siziwan hostel, along with the combination of iEN system to manage the use of facilities and electricity in the hostel 
and construct comprehensive power monitor and room management model, so as to reach maximum energy and water 
saving efficiency.
Greenhouse Gas Emission of Siziwan Hostel
Item 2012 2013 2014
Revenue (NT$ million) 8.4 9.1 9.5
Carbon Emission (ton) 78,405.2 71,869.0 75,798.0
Electricity Usage (kWh) 128,113 117,433 123,853
Energy Intensity (t-CO2/NTD thousand) 9.3 7.9 7.9
96Merger of Electronic Bills
Chunghwa Telecom has monthly electronic bills available to replace traditional paper bills, consumer may simply use 
Chunghwa Telecom’s business counter, service hotline and web counter to make such request. In addition, combination 
and centralization of bill service is also available. That is, bills of different telecom number can be issued on the same 
bill, or different bills can be sent in one envelope.
Chunghwa Telecom started to combine customer bills in 2001 for facilitating the customers in the management of bills 
and support environmental protection, and launched e-Bill in 2005. After years of effort and massive investment in 
equipment and cost, Chunghwa Telecom saved approximately 415 million sheets of paper in two measures for energy 
saving and carbon reduction by the end of 2014, which is equivalence to the saving of 37,800 trees and reduction of 7,484 
tons of carbon dioxide emissions. The result not only meets customer needs but also mitigates the effects of global 
warming. In the future, Chunghwa Telecom will continue to advocate the reduction of paper bills, the prevailing use of 
combined and e-Bills to sustain the effort in energy saving and carbon reduction to protect our living environment.
The Energy Saving Effect of Using e-Bills and Combined Bills
Item 2012 2013 2014
Ratio of Customers Applying for Combined Bills 87% 88% 88%
Ratio of Customers Applying for E-Bills 17% 17% 18%
Quantity of Paper Saved (1,000 sheets) 406,702 412,755 415,765
Reduction of Carbon Emission Volume (ton) 7,321 7,429 7,484
* The basis of calculation in 2014 is different from 2013. From that year onward, the calculation is based on the quantity of paper 
 saved and reduction of carbon emission after using e-Bills and combined bills.
Importation of Renewable Energy
To reduce the impact of operation on the environment, we imported frequency energy saving, high sensible heat 
energy saving, ventilation energy saving measures for data center. Starting from 2007 to end of 2014, we had 
completed energy saving inverter module of 5,670 HP , high sensible heat air conditioner of 27,779 RT, 6,028 high 
efficiency air conditioners, 2,198 RT ventilation air conditioner and 420 natural ventilation air conditioners. In addition, 
to enhance the efficiency of renewable energy, we have established capacity of 26.6kW for wind power generator, 
5kW for fuel cell, and 196.8kWp for solar photovoltaic power generation system to reduce power use and impact on the 
environment.
Adopt Electric Vehicle
On October of 2012, we signed a 2-year lease for 20-business use Luxgen Electric Vehicles. For every kilowatt-hour the 
electric vehicle can travel 6 kilometers and releases 0.536 kg of CO2e; therefore, 0.089 kg of CO2e per kilowatt-hour 
is released every kilometer. Compared to similar vehicles, the average gasoline use is 8 km per liter and releases 2.361 
kg of CO2e per liter; therefore, 0.295 kg of CO2e per kilowatt-hour is released every kilometer. After switching over to 
electric vehicles, we are saving 0.206 kg of CO2e per kilometer. Estimating that we travel 2,000 km per month, every 
vehicle is reducing CO2e emissions by 4,944 kg and a total of 98,880 kg less CO2e emissions for 20 vehicles. It’s a small 
step but a big change to the earth if every company adopts electric vehicles.
In 2014, total of 20 electric vehicles have travelled 81,518 km with carbon emission of 7255.1 kg- CO2e, which generated 
carbon reduction of 16792.7 kg- CO2e comparing to same type of fuel vehicle and same distance of travel.G4-2297Create a Green Enterprise
Promotion of Green Building
Our investment of NT$ 50 million to establish new building and data center is expected to receive Green Building Label, 
Our data center located in An-Keng, Hsin-Tian also received Green Building Label in 2013. In addition, to provide quality 
data center service and accelerate the internationalization of Taiwan’s cloud service, we have established IDC and 
cloud data center in Banqiao to cope with the needs and is expected to complete in 2015. IDC is expected to receive 
LEED gold certification rating from U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) as well as Green Building Label and Intelligent 
Building Label in Taiwan. For energy efficiency, we combine Cold-Hot Aisle design with iEN to conduct environmental 
surveillance, thereby achieving high energy efficiency of below PUE 1.5 based on “The Green Grid ”Association’s data 
center measurement standard.
Besides, Chunghwa Telecom works with construction companies on construction projects in an aggressive manner such 
as green building “Spotlight”, in hope, in the future, to apply the energy efficiency service or product to the existing old 
building, making intelligent life available to everyone, and contributing to green building.
The First IDC Depot in Greater China Accredited by Rated 4 Standard
Chunghwa Telecom is oriented towards an international financial information and Asia-Pacific data transmission center 
thereby installed an IDC (Internet Data Center) depot at BanQiao of New Taipei in conformity to the highest standard of 
accreditation by TIA 942 of USA. This depot is the first IDC international standard Rated 4 accredited center in Greater China. 
The building is designed with resistance to a level-7 earthquake, flood resistance, and fire resistance. The equipment of the 
center can satisfy the N+N architecture to ensure no interruption of service to enterprises. In addition, Chunghwa Telecom 
also exercises strict entrance code with the combination of RFID and biological identification level-5 control and the ISO 
27001 accreditation for information security management system so as to fortify information security and protection. 
In the design of energy saving, the BanQiao IDC is built with warm and cool passages. Through the iEN (the smart energy 
management cloud platform) developed by Chunghwa Telecom, automated environmental monitor and control is in place 
with the overall energy efficiency objective aiming at “The Green Grid” measurement standard, and achieved the efficiency 
of less than PUE1.5. In addition, this center is also Gold Level LEED accredited, and the Taiwan Green Building, Smart Building 
Labels. These demonstrate the spirit of the quest for green buildings. In 2014, the business revenue for IDC of Chunghwa 
Telecom amounted to NTD 1.65 billion.98Safeguard Our Beautiful Homeland
With frequency of storm and strength of typhoon increasing, and summer temperature hitting record high, it is obvious 
that Global climate has significantly changed in recent years. The goal of global initiative on energy saving and carbon 
reduction is reducing the depletion of earth resources, while allowing the environment to renew and regain strength. 
Confronted by the deterioration of the ecological environment and energy crisis, all the methods are pointing to one 
purpose, that is, to create a better homeland for us all.
Environmental Education Mingled with Operation Activities
Chunghwa Telecom hopes to deliver the concept of “Everyone bears his/her share of responsibility of environmental 
issues, corporation bears responsibility for the sustainable operation.” to its employees, who then shall understand the 
close correlation between extreme weather and personal environmental gestures, and incorporating product life cycle 
into product design; in the hopes of marking environmental sustainability as the Company’s green culture on the basis 
of energy saving, resources reduction and waste reduction. We offer each employee with 4 hours of environmental 
education training each year, covering topics such as promotion of environmental conservation, trend of international 
environmental act and making of handmade sop; In addition, by hosting ecological tour, we combine teaching with 
pleasure to bring environmental education into life.
Corporate Volunteer Exchange
The Chunghwa Telecom corporate volunteers also participated in the 
Taiwan Energy Conservation Patrol initiated by Epson Technology and 
other corporations. This focuses on increasing energy efficiency within 
corporate operations and production processes to achieve the objectives 
of carbon reduction and to mitigate global warming. It is hoped that on-site Item 2012 2013 2014
Session 12 15 8
Counts of patrol 21 27 17Corporate Volunteer ExchangeItem 2012 2013 2014
Session 5 3 9
Participant 1,555 254 399Environmental Education
Item 2012 2013 2014
Session 56 69 79
Participant 12,818 16,093 14,984Ecological Tour
Environmental 
Information 
Disclosure
inspections and the provision of energy conservation advice, given to the units inspected, will help us achieve maximum 
benefit for both environmental protection and corporate profit. 35 sessions of training courses were offered and 78 
energy saving volunteers participated in the last three years.
Implement annual greenhouse gas inventory. Obtain ISO14064 verification and  ●
certification.
Respond to the annual Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire. ●
Respond to environmentally related issues in the annual Dow Jones Sustainability  ●
Indexes (DJSI) questionnaire.
Respond to the Common Wealth Magazine and Global View Magazine questionnaires. ●
Publish the CSR report (environmental protection): Provide data on greenhouse gas  ●
inventory, power, water, and fuel consumption, as well as waste recyclables 
generation.99Create a Green Enterprise
Improve
Energy Use
Efficiency
Autonomous 
Environmental 
Protection
Value-added 
Products and 
ServicesElectronic billing: Features environmental protection, promote with marketing  ●
section.
Electronic invoice: Invoice data were treated for cloud storage permanently for saving  ●
of materials, human resources, and the preferential taxation treatment as incentive 
and exemption from fines by the government.
Promote iEN and other energy-saving categories. ●
Mobile device recycling: Recycle bins are available at service centers in line with the  ●
promotion of waste recycling.
Assist suppliers to apply for product eco-labels. ●Vehicle energy conservation and carbon reduction: Replace old vehicles with  ●
environmentally friendly, and use electric vehicles for trial.
Clean homes, energy saving office, health management system, car-free days, and  ●
paperless ODAS.
Taiwan Energy Conservation Patrol: Focus on increasing energy efficiency within  ●
corporate operations and production processes to achieve the objectives of carbon 
reduction.
Industrial waste recycling: Set-recycling goals. ●
Green EnergyPhotovoltaic system: 196.84kWp capacity System constructed in 2014. ●
Wind power: 26.6kW capacity built in 2014. ●
Fuel cell: Pilot program with the Industrial Technology Research Institute, 5kWp  ●
capacity system
Integrate datacenters: Merge and exploit datacenter space. ●
Add iEN to buildings: Incorporate iEN Intelligent Energy Saving System into new  ●
datacenter construction. In 2014, we have saved the consumption of electric power 
by approximately 9.3 million kWh or NTD 222.6 million in cost, which is equivalent to 
the reduction of carbon dioxide reduction of about 4,900 tons.
Save cooling energy: Use high-efficient and air- conditioners, and cold/hot channel  ●
air-conditioning systems in the datacenters. 
Green building and accommodation: Use green materials for newly constructed  ●
datacenters or buildings.
Solar water heaters: Install solar water heaters in Telecommunications clubs. ●
Recycling: Set up rainwater, underground, and condensed cooling water recycling  ●
systems.
Environmentally-friendly LED bulbs: Internal office building trial plan. ●100 101 100 101
StrategyNarrow the digital gap and create digital opportunity
ManagementLBG assessment of investment in community
ActionTelecommunications universal service ●
Digital Good Neighbors ●
Learning with you - Community Online Learning Programs ●
Portable App for the blind and elderly ●
EYE social innovative call center ●
ResponseSurvey on the demand for 4G of the elderly
Target
IndicatorAdvocacy of Social Harmony
Social investment 1.5 billion
Digital Good Neighbors 72 locationsGRI
CHTContinue the effort in accessible telecommunication service with the 
addition of Digital Good Neighbors.
Social investment will reach 1%  revenue in 2020Short-term
Long-term100 101 100 101
Connect . Hope . TechnologyDigital Inclusion
Chunghwa Telecom expects to create an environment without technology 
and information boundary through telecom technology, so that inheritance 
of culture, extension of education, promotion of industry and upgrade 
of arts and intellectual can be connected in the universe of internet, and 
everyone can be benefited from digital technology despite their age, social 
standing, geographical location and education, creating infinite hope. Based 
on the characteristics of ICT industry and the spirit of “value is where the 
responsibility lies”, Chunghwa Telecom penetrates into the communities in 
Taiwan; with the objective of “shorten digital difference and create digital 
opportunity”, Chunghwa observes the trend of digital difference and put 
forward solutions to facilitate society innovation and digital inclusion.
Chunghwa Telecom Digital Inclusion Strategy
DisabilitiesHelp disabilities and economically disadvantaged persons to use telecom services through ICT technology and 
favorable rates; develop ICT equipment and provide the same to the disabilities thereby improve their life 
quality, education and job opportunities. In addition, with the development of ICT services, we also assist to 
improve the life quality of people with chronicle disease and aged people who need special care.
Low Income 
EarnersIn addition to providing favorable rates to disadvantaged groups, we also install ICT equipment for remote 
and disadvantaged communities.
Remote AreaBe it geographical location, distance or outlying islands, ICT service shall not have any boundary. Chunghwa 
Telecom never ceases to ensure the connectivity of communication. In addition to establishing dual-route 
in remote areas, we also use satellite to improve the communication quality in mountain area and outlying 
islands.
General PublicProvide learning opportunities through sufficient and comprehensive educational programs. We help users to 
utilize ICT services, smart communication equipment and value-added service through mobile equipment, our 
network and branch office.
102Social Investment Management
Chunghwa Telecom believes “Taking from the society and contributing back to the society”. Being the largest telecom 
carrier in Taiwan, our network and services provided throughout Taiwan and remote islands shapes our self-demanding 
of contributing to the society. Over the years, by exerting our core competence, we continue to create values for 
society and help society overall to improve quality of life.
By referencing community investment evaluation mechanism of LBG (London Benchmark Group), Chunghwa Telecom 
conducts evaluation on the possible Community benefits and Business benefits before social investment is made. The 
quantification of contribution of social investment allows us to make reasonable resources allocation, while avoiding 
repetition. It helps our future decision-making and promotion of charity or sponsor activities.
Input Output
Resource Impacts Community	Benefit Business	Benefit
Combine academic resources  ●
with our expertise of 
communication network 
to provide long distance 
tutoring for students in 
remote area.
From end of December 2009  ●
to end of January 2015, a 
total of NT$ 2.97 million and 
44,154 tutoring hours.The first company in ICT industry  ●
to establish collaboration 
relationship with university, the 
combination of industry and 
academic resources to solve 
long distance tutoring in remote 
areas.
Exerting the core competence  ●
of communication and corporate 
advantage of the “Big neighbor” 
of the society, to help remote 
schools solving computer 
maintenance and communication 
issues.Exerting corporate core  ●
competence, implement 
the corporate social 
commitment of 
“shortendigital difference” 
and “create digital learning 
opportunity”.
Fulfill “Big neighbor” duty  ●
to shorten the distance 
between urban and 
rural areas through 
communication 
technology, and convey 
warmth between people.The deepening care helps  ●
to open up the dialogue 
with stakeholders, and 
establish corporate image
in welfare project.
Combine social resources  ●
and minimize the gap of 
manpower in corporate 
social welfare.Example of LBG Evaluation - Long Distance Tutoring for Students in Remote AreasInput
OutputCorporate Community 
Investment MatrixCash Time In-kindManagement 
Cost
LeverageCommunity 
BenefitsBusiness 
BenefitsImpact
Business Community103Advocacy of Social Harmony
Comprehensive Inclusion Action Plan
We define four aspect of telecom performance assessment according to different groups and priorities:
1. For disadvantaged groups: trouble-free communication use, life quality improvement, disadvantaged group 
 employment, social change in the community, and enhance image.
2.For low-income groups: easy to use, affordable rates, life quality improvement, social change inside community, 
 equipment utilization, revenue, and enhance image.
3. Public education by telecom equipment and services: course integrity, service course for attentive to customer, 
 course utilization, revenue, social changes in community, and enhance image.
4. Infrastructure improvement in remote areas and outlying islands: basic communications coverage, high-speed wireless 
 broadband coverage, guarantee of smooth communication, improvement of user life, equipment utilization, revenue, 
 enhance image, social change in the community and community environment.
In the era of technology advancement, the “digital gap” has triggered inequality in education and employment 
opportunity. Chunghwa Telecom focused its social investment in “narrowing the digital gap” and “creation of digital 
opportunity”, given the specific nature and the core competence of data communication of the industry we are in. In 
addition, we also spare no effort in the advocacy of “corporate volunteers” to participate in community service, and 
proactively assist the communities in creating digital opportunity.
0.6%  Hours of Corporate Volunteer Services
NTD 9 million
9.7%  Cash Donations
NTD 142  million0.9%  Management Expenditures
NTD 15 million
Total Social Investment 
NTD 1,472  million
72 locations of Digital Good Neighbors
1,348  students of Community Online Learning Programs 
2,000  minutes video recording through Click Taiwan Program 88.8%  Product or Service Donations
NTD 1,306  million104Digital Good Neighbors, New Cloud Vision
The CHT Foundation is conceived with the spirit of “responsibility” and dedicated to “narrowing digital gap”, “creating 
digital opportunity”, “assisting local industries”, “cultivation of community life”, and “keep local events on record” as 
the directions of its work, and enter the communities from the cultural, industrial, living, and education aspects to share 
the growth together with the communities.
Assessment and Strategic Planning
From 2006 onwards, Chunghwa Telecom installed the “Digital Good Neighbors” program all around Taiwan so as to help 
the areas with the needs and have the intent, but lack the resources of digital settings to build up computer classrooms. 
This program helps to provide open and public information exchange space. We hear the needs of the communities 
with long-term companionship to cultivate positive interactions, build up mutual trust between the enterprise and the 
community for cooperation, and drive the autonomous growth of the communities.
We also encourage the horizontal development of “Digital Good Neighbors”. As such, we organized the two-day “Digital 
Good Neighbors exchange meeting” once a year to invite all community partners to share, exchange and make things 
possible. Successful locations of “Digital Good Neighbors” will be arranged in the meeting for sharing their experience. 
External tutors were also invited to share the insight of their respective specialization. Through interactive discussion 
and brainstorming, the participants can have more time to know one another and work in harmony as a team. This is also 
an opportunity for the communities to learn. With the abundance of experience accumulated, they could materialize in 
the “Digital Good Neighbors”.CharacteristicsDifferent from one time donation. ●
From preliminary assessment to installation and maintenance of equipment, planning is made with far-slightness. ●
ProcedureRun the programs on a “case-by-case” basis with consideration of community factors, culture, time, and space, 
economic development, level of education, and repeated communication and discussion for proper matching.
Result 72 locations for “Digital Good Neighbors” have been accomplished.
ExtensionMake the best of effort in exploring community needs, or culture and arts to the rural areas, creative reading, 
basketball summer camp, or volunteer service so as to combine internal and external resources for supplying 
the communities the kind of elements they need for long-term development.
2014 Social Contribution of the Foundation
ItemDigital 
LearningDigital Good 
NeighborsClick
TaiwanSocial 
MarketingDocumentary 
Safekeeping ProjectCHT Female 
Basketball TeamAdministrative 
Expense
Input of 
Resources2,839 3,975 6,676 3,815 1,000 13,521 10,251
Unit: thousand NTD105Advocacy of Social Harmony
Click Taiwan
The “Click Taiwan” program co-organized by Chunghwa Telecom and the Department of Radio and Television 
Broadcasting of National Chengchi University is a continuing effort for encouragement of young people to make a 
change from practical work, and get out of their constraints to feel different things and meet different people, and 
take a second look at this country on their own through participation.
The university students spend 15 to 20 days during the summer holidays to the locations of “Digital Good 
Neighbors” to materialize “service with one hand and keep record with another”. They share what they learned 
in the communities and keep photographic record on the stories to 21 “Digital Good Neighbors” locations. There 
were 25 teams of 50 university students in the 6th “Click Taiwan” program. They provide local community service 
and keep photographic record. They came from different places and contributed what they learned to these 
communities, including story reading, news production, wall painting, English teaching, etc. By the end of 2014, 
there were 258 students from 44 schools participating in this program in 57 communities with documentary 
footage of more than 2,000 minutes.
For the perpetuation of the enthusiasm of the young people of Taiwan, Chunghwa Telecom has activated the “Click 
Taiwan Youth Training Scheme”in 2014 to provide outstanding students who have participated in the program to 
proceed advanced learning and provide service to the community again. We could see that these young people have 
their sense of mission and responsibility for the land. With their ceaseless input of creativity and dynamics, we hope 
they could activate a positive chain reaction to create a better future.
Click Taiwan “Youth Training Scheme”, Knowledge is New Power 
Ya-Chuan and Ya-Chen are two students with major in visual communication. They participated in the Click Taiwan Youth 
Training Scheme at Luo Shan Village in Fuli, Hualien. They just brought two brushes and started painting the rugged walls. 
After a few days of work, a large number of villagers joined the effort. They have finished turning 3 walls into colorful 
paintings and gave the village a fresh look. “We just did something not worth mentioning, but we have motivated the 
people who in turn motivated all. Finally, we have these walls”, the two recalled. Their documentary titled “Straw Hat” 
rejuvenated the handcraft of making straw hats which is about to vanish. This reminds people in modern times that 
simplicity and humbleness could be as good and as warm at the time where the craving for speed is the order of the day.
106
“Click Taiwan” Public Talks
We hope more people can learn about the specific nature and happiness of life and we started to hold the ”Click 
Taiwan” Public Talks with “Happiness and Sharing”in 2013 as the theme to convey the philosophy of CHT Foundation of 
“Cultivate Community Life and Assist Local Industries”.
In 2014, the public talks with the topic “Happiness and Sharing” invited experts who have contributed their effort in 
different fields and made stories to share their experience of making their dreams come true, and their own ways of 
passing through their different journeys. There were 6 charity forums held with positive feedback from the participants. 
At the same time, the public can have more and diversified channels to know the land and its stories.
Thank you Director, you made me believe that influence has a spillover effect. It is 
because these documentaries are no longer just documentaries but the power of life (9/20 
session).
It is very touching. The dialogue between man and the land really made an urban 
boy like myself, who has never had the experience of working in the field before, to 
understand and respect farmers and agriculture through the speech. (10/12 session).
Thank you to the foundation for holding this event. Through sharing, I believe Taiwan 
will become better. I learned a wonderful sentence today; it is not one person who has 
done a lot to make change, but many people who each have done a little that make the 
change. (10/26 session).Feedback from the audiences107Advocacy of Social Harmony
Digital Good Neighbors Allows for More Possibilities
“Ching Liao Church” is a location of Digital Good Neighbors in Tainan. After long-term development of digital learning, 
schoolchildren from primary 5 to primary 6 continue their digital learning until high school and senior high school. With 
prolonged training, the trainees have turned positive of their future. They advance towards professional career development. 
In May 2014, Reverend Wu and 2 schoolmates of the location together challenged the Level C technician for computer 
hardware fabrication. Reverend Wu is not disciplined in computer, but he elected to keep the two children company in the 
course of certification. He finally got a certificate too. Reverend Wu planned to challenge the Level B and set himself as an 
example for encouraging the children to create more possibilities.Artistic Culture in Rural Areas
Most of the locations of “Digital Good Neighbors” are in remote 
areas with meager transportation. The people dwelling in these 
locations will have a lot of trouble for joining artistic and cultural 
events. From 2010 onwards, Chunghwa Telecom invited artistic 
groups to perform in these areas with positive feedback.
In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom continued to work with the “Paper 
Windmill Children Opera” to perform in different rural places. We 
also encouraged the locations of Digital Good Neighbors to show 
their soft power of local culture outward, and specifically organized 
an artistic cultural exchange between “Digital Good Neighbors – 
Feng Lin Church at Lion Village of Pingtung County” and “Chin Ai 
Philharmonic Orchestra of Chin Ai Primary School in Nantou”. The 
event was a success. Through two-way exchange with musical notes 
and songs, local tour, and DIY, the gap between Taiya, Saisiat, and 
Paiwan were mended. The children in the mountains and by the sea 
can broaden their horizons.
108Create Digital Opportunity
By utilizing our expertise in telecom technology, we hope that everyone shares the advantage of technology despite 
their wealth, social status or geographical location, thereby achieving the objective of shorten digital difference and 
creating digital opportunities. We also contributed resources in developing products and services to meet the needs of 
the disabled, so as to achieving their rights of enjoying the universe of digital technology.
Telecommunications Universal Service
In 2014, Chunghwa Telecom has established 65 sites for accessibility to telecommunication services in supporting the 
government for protecting the fundamental right of the people in communication with concrete action.
Beneficiaries	of	Service	82 rural communities in Taiwan ●
Telephone service for more than 210,000 households. ●
Data communication service for more than 80,000 households.  ●
More than 69,000 public telephone sets across 22 counties/cities. ●
Data connection service for more than 3,700 high schools, primary schools, and public libraries. ●
Recourse committed by CHT 2012~2014 with annual average contribution of about NTD 860 million.
ProblemsThe topography of different rural zones vary significantly and they are far away, which makes  ●
the maintenance of the telecommunication systems difficult.
There is a higher probability that natural disasters will cause damage to the telecommunication  ●
facilities, and the cost of maintenance will not be lower than the cost of installation.
Connect Smangus to the World
Smangus is the dwelling place of the Taiya Tribe with a total population of some 170 in 28 household units. The tribe is located 
at back side of a mountain of Jian Shi Village in Hsinchu County. Chutung, the nearest township to the tribe, takes about 3 
hours of driving. The mountainous scene of this tribe is magnificent, covered with century-old trees, and has attracted visitors 
from far away. This tribe is known as the tribe of the gods.
This tribe is far away from any urban zone and has winding and bumpy mountain trails. It poses much difficulty for the 
telecommunication service providers to set up related network. From 2003 onwards, Chunghwa Telecom has overcome 
the hardship of the journey and invested NTD 8 million in setting up digital microwave systems to provide local telephone, 
ADSL network (1M/256k) service. In 2012, the company has upgraded the backbone broadband of the network and started to 
provide MOD service in this region. The connection speed with fiber optic broadband line is as high as 20Mbps. In June 2014, 
the company has completed the installation of 18 public Wi-Fi hotspots for free access to the Internet via Wi-Fi.
Through the connection with the Samangus tribe via the Internet, about 50,000 to 60,000 head counts of visitors have 
visited the tribe each year. Of these visitors, some were from Japan, the USA, and Canada. The connection of the tribe to the 
web helps to upgrade the economic efficiency of the tribe through tourism and sale of agricultural produce.  
109Advocacy of Social Harmony
* The data period started on 2009.12.01 and ended on 2015.01.31Tutorship at Primary School Level Tutorship at University Level Tutorial Hours Total Cost (NT$)
1,348 2,232 44,154 29,716,523Read with You - Community Network Tutoring
Chunghwa Telecom has supported the education and showed its concern for the rural villages since 2009, after the 
turmoil left behind by Typhoon Morakot. We extend our service to the permanent settlement and newly developed 
communities in the disaster zone. Through the installation of visual technology of the Internet, we delivered the 
educational resources in the form of private tutorship to rural villages and the hands of the unfortunate.
We hope to give the children of the next generation a learning environment with “safety, dignity, and hope” through 
pragmatic means of cultivation and development!
CharacteristicsBy way of online education, university students assist the pupils of junior high schools and primary schools in the 
rural villages to enhance their learning effect and prompt for equal opportunity of learning.
MethodTo realize the spirit of stakeholder engagement, we have cooperated with Catholic Fu Jen University for online 
education. University students were called to the cause with one-to-one tutoring to take care of the school 
children in the rural villages and the disaster zones.
ParticipantsChin Lun Hot Spring Tribe in Taitung, Galan Community at Taitung, Pintung Sunshine Tutoring Association, 
Pingtung Feng Lin Church, Pingtung Chao Chou Boys Town, Kaohsiung Liu Kuei Catholic Church, Kaohsiung Shan 
Lin Tzuchi Park, Chiayi Fu Jen High School, Yilan Toucheng Catholic Church, Orchid Island High School and Matzu 
High School.
Major result in 
2014For pupils at high junior schools and primary schools, we recruited 42 senior high school students to the tutorial 
program so as to provide tutorial methods for 3 distinctive learning needs. We also hope the parents can keep 
their children company in learning and show their concern to motivate the pupils and students in learning!
110Personal Assistant App for Visually Impaired and the Elderly
In 2013, Chunghwa telecom was the first to design the “Personal Assistant App for Visually Impaired and the 
Elderly” for ethnic Chinese. This is the combination of the cloud functions of image, voice, reading, and living 
and presented as a solution for those who have visual problems in food, clothing, residence, mobility, and 
entertainment. As of the end of 2014, there were 6,282 downloads.
Result 
at 
PresentIn 2013, the Android version was launched, and in 2014 the iPhone version was launched. Traditional and simplified  ●
Chinese, English, and Japanese languages are available. 
Banknote identification function: for identification of Banknote  including  in CNY, NTD, USD, EUR, and JPY.  ●
Identification of daily items (under the assistance of the cloud volunteer from remote end via Facebook and Skype) ●
There are 200 cloud volunteers in Taiwan at present. Those who want to become a volunteer may search  ●
for “object identification” in FB, and add as a good friend, and you can give a colorful life for the visually impaired. 
Voice books (30,000 copies) ●
Future 
TargetVolunteer assistance system that helps to translate static photographs to dynamic audiovisual display. ●
Integrate different ICT technologies and community volunteers to allow the visually impaired to look at things  ●
through a wide array of choices.
Use 4G to Help the Visually Impaired
In gratitude of the perpetual effort of the “cloud volunteers” in helping the visually impaired in “identification of daily items”, 
and introduction of the function of the App at present and in the future, Chunghwa Telecom, the Resource Center for the 
Visually Impaired at Tamkang University and the Technology Development Association for the Disabled of the ROC jointly 
held the “4G in Action to Help the Blind” conference on December 5 2014.
According to the statistics of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, there were approximately 57,000 visually impaired persons 
in Taiwan as of the end of 2014, which accounted for 5% of the physically and mentally impaired. Chunghwa Telecom wishes 
to work in conjunction with professional institutions to call for more cloud volunteers to help the visually impaired to open a 
new window with the 4G visual guide and Beacon guide.
The	2014	App	Surfing	Campaign
In the “2014 App Surfing Campaign”, the elderly generation higher than 55 from Taipei, New Taipei, Keelung, Taichung, 
Changhua County, and Kaohsiung City were invited to run in the “Elder Life Helper App”. Inquiries and interviews were 
also conducted on the evaluation of the service in general, the interface efficiency, and functional demands. By the end 
of 2014, there were 868 downloads. A total of 10 such events have been held with promotion to some 1,065 elderly 
people and 203 of whom have actually taking the test. More than 80% of these elderly people are satisfied with the 
overall service, and feel that the interface and function of this App are suitable for the elderly. 
Feedback from the pilot run: The wording displayed in the Evergreen Helper App can allow the user to clearly understand the 
functions. The background color is not flashy and has a good feeling in general. The font size is good enough for clear and 
comfortable viewing. The fonts used are identical with the fonts used in the mobile phone that gives a sense of familiarity.The research staff gives introduction to the content of the service 
and operation of the “Elder Life Helper App” developed by TLStep
1Allow the elderly to run the App and experience the operation.Step
2The research staff gives introduction to the content of the service 
and operation of the “Elder Life Helper App” developed by TL.Step
3111Advocacy of Social Harmony
Innovation Creates Employment Opportunity
Chunghwa Telecom has engaged in long-term cooperation with the Resources Center for the Blind at Tamkang 
University, and has established the EYE Social Innovative Call Center in 2011. The joint effort led to the unveil of the 
first “Total solution” in Taiwan, including the research and development of the computer assisted telephone system for 
the visually impaired, improvement and the training and supervision of talents and develop the skills of the telephone 
customer service personnel in responding to the needs of the visually impaired.
In addition to the telephone survey on service satisfaction by Chunghwa Telecom, there is also the Taipei 1999, Taoyuan 
County 1999, Kaohsiung City 1999 and the Disease Control Bureau 1922 that has introduced the customer service system 
for the visually impaired. For the time being, Chunghwa Telecom has assisted 45 visually impaired persons to provide 
telephone customer service in five units including Chunghwa Telecom and 1999.
By the end of 2014, the “Total solution” has provided 9 satisfaction survey personnel for Chunghwa Telecom and 12 
customer service personnel for the 1999 system. They have answered to more than 10,097 calls each month, of which 1 
of the visually impaired staff has passed the evaluation and promoted as the supervisor of telephone customer service.
QR Code Charity Donation
In 2013, Chunghwa Telecom unveiled the QR code mobile payment App that enable users to scan QR code to make 
immediately donation to social charity by credit card. Start from the heart, donation to social charity become smart. 
The App allows the “Scan and Donate” become a national event and extend the love of people to every corner of the 
world.
Through this App, we can make use of the low cost advantage of the “Scan and Donate” action so that the donors are 
no longer constrained to designated venues for making donation such as the chain store, Internet, and gasoline stations. 
They can make social charity donation with a wide array of choices. This also helped to streamline the operation of the 
donors. Cooperation with Tzuchi Foundation in 2013 and the Eden Foundation in 2014 for joint promotion of the App. 
There were 289 participants with donation amounting to NTD 125,800.
112Preferential PlanTotal Benefited and 
Total Preferential 
Amount
Public Phone Card 
Subsidy NT$ 100 IC public phone card for the disadvantaged applicant. ●5,007 people
NTD 2.5 million
Caring Series Rate PlanDouble communication hours at original rate plan. ●
300 free SMS intra-network and 100 free SMS extra-network. ●-
NTD 21.1 million
Broadband Preferential 
Plan for Low-income 
Households50% off on HiNet 6M/2M, 20M/5M, 60M/15M monthly rate. ●
50% off on ADSL 2M/64K and 5M/384K monthly rate. ●2,678 people
NTD 11.7 million
Broadband Preferential 
Plan for the Disabled5% off on HiNet 20M/5Mand 60M/15M monthly rate. ●
15% off on ADS 5M/384K monthly rate. ●
5% off for other rates. ●992 people
NTD 0.4 million
MOD Plan for the
Socially UnfortunateAverage service charge: special offer at 50% off (NT$ 45/month) during the ●
first 2 years after the completion of work.
One-year subscription for family deluxe package is entitled to a 10% discount  ●
(NT$ 243/month) within the effective period.
Family Preferred Package: One-year subscription is entitled to a 10% discount  ●
(NT$ 98/month) within the effective period.2,100 people
-
Healthy Internet PlanFor low-income households, providing free first year service to protect children 
from harmful websites such as pornography, violence, suicide, weapons, 
gambling, drugs.540 people
NTD 0.8 million
Welfare Public 
TelephoneInstalled 110 cm from the floor in public areas for the convenience of the handicapped. ●
The keyboard was designed with embossment for the visually impaired on the “5” key. ●
A function for voice adjustment from 3db to 6db that is exclusively prepared for people using hearing  ●
aids.
A slot for inserting an IC card is designed on the side of all public telephone sets for the convenience  ●
of the visually impaired. 
Message Relay Service 
for the Dump and DeafAll telephone messages will be translated and faxed to the service hotline 0800-080885. The service  ●
personnel will then relay the message in voice and return the message to the dump and deaf caller (up 
to 80 words for relay and up to 30 words for reply).
Those who are not deaf and dump may also call the hotline for the relay of messages via fax to the  ●
dump and deaf. The service hours are 08:00-21:00 daily.Preferential Subsidies for the Disadvantaged Groups
To make communication services available to the disadvantaged groups, Chunghwa Telecom offers them with 
preferential subsidies.113Advocacy of Social Harmony
Name of Organization Note
The Chinese Institute of 
Electrical EngineeringPresent opinions on the telecommunication policy of the government through the 
telecommunication symposium held by the institute, and sponsor the activities of the 
institute so as to perform the responsibility of supporting the industry.
Taiwan Intelligent Aerotropolis 
AssociationCHT leads the planning and the operation of the association so as to develop new business 
opportunities and the industrial prowess of Taiwan, and develop the kind of skills capable of 
exporting solutions to all parts of the world.
Taiwan Telecommunication 
Industry Development 
Association This is a platform for interchange among the industry peers. With collective consultation 
and discussion on important issues, this association plays the role as the bridge between the 
industry and the competent authority.
Chinese International Economic 
Cooperation AssociationCHT delivered speeches on special topics at invitation of the association, and assist in the 
promotion of international exchange and business joint venture.
TCCDA (Taiwan Customer 
Service Center Development 
Association) Organize seminars frequently and introduce the latest customer service system techniques, 
operation management, and concept of service and business innovation, which is helpful for 
CHT to improve its operation management and customer service.
Pacific Telecommunications 
Council (PTC)Contact with worldwide telecommunications firms at regular intervals for business deal in 
nearby locations. This provided substantial result in overseas business expansion.
BCSD Taiwan Good for the review of sustainable corporate development strategy and the introduction 
of related management tool, control the dynamics of the international development of CSR 
issues. 
Cloud Computing Association 
in TaiwanIt helps to get a grip on the information of the government cloud and business opportunity 
and give recommendations to the government on the cloud industry through the 
association.
Taiwan Electromagnetic 
Industry-Academia Consortium This is a research consortium organized by the university faculties specialized 
in electromagnetic across Taiwan who have strong potential in the research and 
development of B4G/5G wireless technology.Table of the Key Associations Joined by Chunghwa Telecom
Chunghwa Telecom has joined almost 100 associations and groups with a view to upgrading its technology and 
stimulating the development of the industry through exchange and cooperation within the industry and across different 
industries:G4-16114 115 114 115
114 115 114 115
116 117 116 117General Standard Disclosures
Indicators Disclosure ItemPage Number and 
CommentIdentified Omission
and ExplanationExternal Assurance
p114-115
G4-1Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, 
or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the 
organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability.4~5 V
G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 10,29 V
G4-3 Report the name of the organization. Chunghwa Telecom V
G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 11 V
G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 7 V
G4-6Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries 
where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the 
sustainability topics covered in the report.7 V
G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 7,28 V
G4-8Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 
customers and beneficiaries).7 V
G4-9 Report the scale of the organization. 8~11 V
G4-10 Report the total number of employees. 68 V
G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 70 V
G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 37~39 V
G4-13Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, 
structure, ownership, or its supply chain.None V
G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 29~30 V
G4-15List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 
initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses.28,32 V
G4-16List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international 
advocacy organizations.113 V
G4-17List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent 
documents.Please refer to Chunghwa 
Telecom’s 2014
annual report p.107V
G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. 20~21 V
G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 20~21 V
G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. 20~21 V
G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. 20~21 V
G4-22Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons 
for such restatements.96 V
G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. None V
G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 22~23 V
G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 22~23 V
G4-26Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 
engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the 
engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process.22~23 V
G4-27Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 
the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 
Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns.22~23 V
G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 2014/1/1~2014/12/31 V
G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2014/8/31 V
G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual V
G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1 V
G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Comprehensive V
G4-33Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for 
the report.1 VG4 Index116 117 116 117General Standard Disclosures
Indicators Disclosure ItemPage Number and 
CommentIdentified Omission
and ExplanationExternal Assurance
p114-115
G4-34Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest 
governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, 
environmental and social impacts.27 V
G4-35Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from 
the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees.18 V
G4-36Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with 
responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report 
directly to the highest governance body.18 V
G4-37Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on 
economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any 
feedback processes to the highest governance body.18 V
G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 27 V
G4-39Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his 
or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement).27 V
G4-40Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its 
committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members.28 V
G4-41Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and 
managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders.28 V
G4-42Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, 
and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and 
goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts.18 V
G4-43Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective 
knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics.Please refer to Chunghwa 
Telecom’s 2014 annual 
report  p.63-65V
G4-44Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect 
to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is 
independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment.18We have formulated 
assessment procedure 
and are waiting to get 
approval by Board of 
DirectorsV
G4-45Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, 
environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s 
role in the implementation of due diligence processes.18 V
G4-46Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk 
management processes for economic, environmental and social topics.18 V
G4-47Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and 
social impacts, risks, and opportunities.18 V
G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approve. 18 V
G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 18 V
G4-50Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest 
governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them.Please refer to
Chunghwa Telecom’s 
2014 annual reportV
G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives. 27 V
G4-52Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are 
involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report 
any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organizatio-We don't have such 
process yetV
G4-53Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, 
including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable.-We don't have such 
process yetV
G4-54Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in 
each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees 
(excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.67 V
G4-55Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-
paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual 
total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.Highest-paid individual's 
pay did not increase in 
2014. V
G4-56Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 
conduct and codes of ethics.31 V
G4-57Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and 
matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines.71 V
G4-58Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful 
behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line 
management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines.71 V118 119 118 119Specific Standard Disclosures
Indicators Disclosure ItemPage Number and 
CommentIdentified 
Omission
and ExplanationExternal 
Assurance
p114-115
Category: Economic
Material Aspect: Economic Performance
DMA
p.10EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 10 V
EC2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 
organization’s activities due to climate change30,85 V
EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 80~83 V
EC4 Financial assistance received from government None V
Material Aspect: Market PreSence
DMA
p.67EC5Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local 
minimum wage at significant locations of operation67 V
EC6Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 
significant locations of operationAll our employees are Taiwanese 
and hired from local community V
Material Aspect: Procurement Practices
DMA
p.38EC9Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of 
operation38 V
Category: Environment
Material Aspect: Energy
DMA
p.90EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 84 V
EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 91 V
EN5 Energy intensity 92 V
EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 96~97 V
EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 95~97 V
Material Aspect: Emissions
DMA
p.90EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE 1) 90 V
EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE 2) 90 V
EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE 3) 91 V
EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 90 V
EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions 95~99 V
EN20 Emissions of Ozone-Depleting substances (ODS) - Not applicable V
EN21 NO X, SO X, and other significant air emissions - Not applicable V
Material Aspect: Products and Services
DMA
p.47EN27Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and 
services44~46,95~97 V
DMA
p.94EN28Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are 
reclaimed by category94 V
Category: Social
Sub-category: Labor Practices and Decent Work
Material Aspect: Employment
DMA
p.68LA1Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by 
age group, gender and region68~69 V
LA2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part time employees, by significant locations of operation80~83 V
DMA
p.82LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender54V
Material Aspect: Labor/Management Relations
DMA
p.70LA4Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether 
these are specified in collective agreements70 V
Material Aspect: Training and Education
DMA
p.76LA9Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by 
employee category76Current system dose not 
support the function of 
categorizing by genderV118 119 118 119Specific	Standard	Disclosures
Indicators Disclosure ItemPage Number and 
CommentIdentified Omission
and ExplanationExternal 
Assurance
p114-115
DMA
p.76LA10Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 
employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings72~74 V
LA11Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, 
by gender and by employee category74 V
Sub-category: 人權
Material Aspect: Non-discrimination
DMA
p.70HR3 Total number of incidents of Discrimination and Corrective Actions Taken 70 V
Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and collective bargaining
DMA
p.70HR4Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association 
and collective bargaining maybe violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to 
support these rightsNone V
Sub-category: Society
Material Aspect: Local Communities
DMA
p.104SO1Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs34,104The calculation method is under 
discussionV
SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities None V
Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior
DMA
p.34SO7Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices and their outcomesNone V
Sub-category: Product Responsibility
Material	Aspect:	Customer	Health	and	Safety
DMA
p.65PR1Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety 
impacts are assessed for improvement63 V
PR2Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 
concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, 
by type of outcomesNone V
Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling
DMA
p.53PR3Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for 
product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and 
service categories subject to such information requirements100% V
PR4Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 
concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomesNone V
PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 61~62 V
Material Aspect: Marketing Communications
DMA
p.34PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products None V
PR7Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 
concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, 
by type of outcomes34 V
Material Aspect: Customer Privacy 
DMA
p.54PR8Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 
losses of customer data32 V
Telecommunication Sector Specific Indicators
Sub-category: Internal Operations
Sub-category: Investment
DMA
p.108IO1Capital investment in telecommunication network infrastructure broken down by 
country/region56,57,65 V
IO2Net costs for service providers under the Universal Service Obligation when extending 
service to geographic locations and low-income groups, which are not profitable. Describe 
relevant legislative and regulatory mechanisms108 V
Material Aspect: Health and Safety
DMA
p.63IO3Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel involved in the installation, 
operation and maintenance of masts, base stations, laying cables and other outside plant. 
Related health and safety issues include working at heights, electric shock, exposure to 
EMF and radio frequency fields, and exposure to hazardous chemicals77~79 V120 PBIndicators Disclosure ItemPage Number
and 
CommentIdentified Omission
and ExplanationExternal 
Assurance p114-115
DMA
p.63IO4Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection) standards on 
exposure to radiofrequency (RF) emissions from handsets25,63 V
IO5Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection) guidelines on 
exposure to radiofrequency (RF) emissions from base stations25,63 V
IO6 Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets 25,63 V
Material Aspect: Infrastructure
DMA
p.63IO7Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission sites including stakeholder consultation, 
site sharing, and initiatives to reduce visual impacts. Describe approach to evaluate consultations and 
quantify where possible63 V
IO8Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites, and sites on existing
structures63 V
Sub-category: Providing Access
Material Aspect: Access to Telecommunication Products and Services: Bridging the Digital Divide1
DMA
p.108PA1Polices and practices to enable the deployment of telecommunications infrastructure and access to 
telecommunications products and services in remote and low population density areas. Include an 
explanation of business models applied55,56,57,108 V
PA2Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of telecommunication 
products and services including: language, culture, illiteracy, and lack of education, income, 
disabilities, and age. Include an explanation of business models applied56,57,108 V
PA3Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of telecommunications products and services 
and quantify, where possible, for specified time periods and locations of down time60~62 V
PA4Quantify the level of availability of telecommunications products and services in areas 
where the organisation operates. Examples include: customer numbers/market share, 
addressable market, percentage of population covered, percentage of land covered55 V
PA5Number and types of telecommunication products and services provided to and used by low and no 
income sectors of the population. Provide definitions selected. Include explanation of approach to 
pricing, illustrated with examples such as price per minute of dialogue/bit of data transfer in various 
remote, poor or low population density areas112 V
PA6Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication products and services in 
emergency situations and for disaster relief57 V
Material Aspect: Access to Content
DMA
p.65PA7Polices and practices to manage human rights issues relating to access and use of telecommunications 
products and services63~65 V
Material Aspect: Customer Relations
DMA
p.63PA8Policies and practices to publicly communicate on EMF related issues. Include information provides at 
points of sales material63 V
PA9Total amount invested in programmes and activities in electromagnetic field research. Include 
description of programmes currently contributed to and funded by the reporting organisation63 V
PA10 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffs 53 V
PA11Initiatives to inform customers about product features and applications that will promote responsible, 
efficient, cost effective, and environmentally preferable use58~59 V
Sub-category: Technology Applications
Material Aspect: Resource Efficiency
DMA
p.43TA1 Provide examples of the resource efficiency of telecommunication products and services delivered 53 V
TA2Provide examples of telecommunication products, services and applications that have the 
potential to replace physical objects (e.g. a telephone book by a database on the web or travel by 
videoconferencing)43~46,
110~111V
TA3Disclose any measures of transport and/or resource changes of customer use of the 
telecommunication products and services listed above. Provide some indication of scale, market size, 
or potential savings43~46,
110~111V
TA4Disclose any estimates of the rebound effect (indirect consequences) of customer use of the 
products and services listed above, and lessons learned for future development. This may include 
social consequences as well as environmental43~46,
110~111V
TA5 Description of practices relating to intellectual property rights and open source technologies 47 V
Fubon Financial Holdings CSR Report is printed on heavy-metal-free 
paper and with eco-friendly soybean-based ink2 PB
