I LearningI SharingI HelpingI ProtectingI ProgrammingEditorial Policy
This report discloses the Company’s CSR management policies, material topics, countermeasures, initiatives and results 
between January 1 and December 31, 2017. However, to ensure complete coverage, parts of the report include descriptions 
of initiatives and results from 2016 to 2018.
Issuing Organization Item
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Standards: Core option
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Telecommunications Sector Supplement
International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) International <IR> Framework
Content and data of this report have been reviewed and assured by SGS Taiwan Ltd. based on the “Core” option of GRI 
Standards for compliance with the Core elements of GRI Standards and AA1000 AS (2008) Type 2 High Assurance Standards 
and requirements of the Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework.
If you have any feedback to share, please do not hesitate to contact us through:
CSR Division, Public Affairs Department, Chunghwa Telecom, 
Chih-Ming Tseng
Address:
Tel:
E-mail:21-3 Hsinyi Rd., Sec. 1, Taipei 10048, Taiwan, R.O.C.
+886-2-2344-4000
chtcsr@cht.com.twReporting Period
References
How to Read the Report
Assurance
FeedbackWelcome to Chunghwa Telecom’s 11th Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report. This report is published in both 
Chinese and English on a dedicated CSR website. We hope to integrate the advantages of both paper-based and Internet-
based reports to let our stakeholders gain a better understanding of our CSR-related efforts and performances in 2017.
CSR website: https://www.cht.com.tw/en/home/cht/sustainability/csr-report-download
Topic of GRI Standards
Chunghwa Telecom’s own IndicatorGRI
CHT
TARGETT
Future outlook, 
targets and plans
INDICATORI
The GRI and 
Chunghwa 
Telecom’s own 
Indicators
STRATEGYS
MANAGEMENTM
Develop 
strategies and 
commitments
RESPONSER
Stakeholder 
requests and  
responses
ACTIONA
Management 
mindsets and 
mechanismsImportant 
projects and 
actionsCONTENT
Editorial Policy
Message from the Chairman
2017 CSR Milestones01
04
10
Corporate Governance
CSR Management14
18
Corporate Overview 06
Emerging Risks
Emerging Opportunities
Climate Change Risks
Cybersecurity Risks38
38
40
44
Sustainability Risks
and Opportunities 362017 Material Topics and Impact
Stakeholders Engagement28
32
Material Topics
and Impact 26
CHT Sustainability Value Strategy
Creating Sustainability Value22
24
Sustainability 
Value Strategy 20
The Digital Economy Motivator
The Creative Industry Pilot
The Happiness Value Protector
The Green Corporation Pioneer
The Social Value Guide48
50
54
82
94
The Creation of
Sustainable Value 46
Public Policy 
Participation 106
CSR Performance Overview
Assurance Statement
GRI Standards Index111
112
114The sustainability performance of Chunghwa Telecom in 2017 was extraordinary, due to the combined efforts of all employees. 
Besides being selected as an index component on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the 6th consecutive year, 
MSCI Taiwan ESG Leaders Index and the FTSE4Good Emerging Index, we were also one of the first group of enterprises 
included in the FTSE4Good TIP Taiwan ESG Index. Our fruitful achievements in sustainability included:
The first telecom operator in Taiwan to publish the CSR Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards,
which was 2 years ahead of the relative regulations of the Taiwan Stock Exchange.
We led in Green Power Procurement in Taiwan’s telecom industry for 3 consecutive years. We support the government indeveloping renewable energy and have bought 12 million kW of clean energy over 3 years.
We are the leading telecom operator in the amount of energy generated from self-built solar power plants, with a totalcapacity of 527 kWp. The amount of carbon saved equals the total amount absorbed by the Daan Park in Taipei per year.
We are the first telecom operator in Taiwan to join the CDP Supply Chain Project and promote the sustainability managementof the supply chain thoroughly. With our suppliers, we are marching toward the future of environmental sustainability.
We received the Exercise Enterprise Certification for 2 consecutive years, and also many Sports Promoter Awards.
We supported the Taipei 2017 Universiade, the largest global sporting event in Taiwan that year, with the social participationamount of NT$ 100 million.
“Chunghwa Telecom can do more” has always been our core principle. In addition to industry development and competition, 
we also focus on the voice of internal and external stakeholders. We listen carefully and respond to the need of society, as we use our core expertise in the information and communication technology to actively respond to the expectations from the 
consumers, investors, shareholders, communities and society. 
The telecom industry is now facing an era where mobile revenue has surpassed that of the traditional voice business and has 
become the main source of revenue. At the same time, we are also facing Internet market saturation, the highly competitive 
domestic telecom market and challenges from the growth of the IoT and the innovative applications industry. We developed a 
diverse layout strategy in 2017 and continue to improve the basic infrastructure of the broadband to provide support for various industries in the development of the digital economy. We foster the prosperity of innovative application of information and 
communication technology, and we grasp opportunities in startup industry growth. Furthermore, we continue to collaborate 
Message
from the
Chairman
with industrial partners and schools to build a new environment for digital economic development, to reach the goal of “being 
the motivator of digital economy and the pilot of creative industry” as the leader in the new era of digital economy.
As for the attraction and the maintenance of talent, we increased the average overall salary in 2017 to reduce the impact of the 
coming tide of retirement on human resources and operations. The average salary increase was 3.54% and the maximum was 
5%. By adopting a competitive remuneration system, we hope to keep our young and excellent employees while attracting 
more talent to join the CHT family, and be the first choice in the telecom service industry for the new generation.
Chunghwa Telecom is responding to the continuing deterioration of global natural resources, the environment and its ecology, 
as well as the social perspectives, with concrete actions. In addition to the promotion of 5G (Green) sustainable strategic plans, 
“energy, procurement, operation, store and supply chain,” we are developing environmental green products as well. Chunghwa 
Telecom has been transforming into a full scale “green corporation,” and sparing no effort in the two main social aspects, which 
are: “Minimizing the digital divide” and “Creating digital opportunities.” We are connecting the outcome of social communion 
over the years to actively promote social innovation and digital inclusion.
We publicly adopted the “5I-SDGs” initiative in 2017 and now stand beside the UN SDGs to connect Taiwan to the world in an 
official response and engagement. We have also used our core competence to respond to the DIGI+ Project goal of the “Digital 
Country · Innovative Economy” of the Executive Yuan. By using our influence on society, we are completing our digital inclusion 
range to protect information and to give equal rights to all in this Internet and digital era.
We hope to strengthen the connections of our CSR spirit and the local communities in Taiwan with the aids of our relations with 
partners and the promotion of corporate volunteers. The connections between the underprivileged and the diverse groups and 
the digital economic era are supported by the sharing and communicating of knowledge, technology and resources. Through 
these, we link the “cycle of kindness” to realize a win-win situation in terms of digital human rights and innovative economy. We 
hope that you can continue to give us support and encouragement.
Chairman & CEO
Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.
Thank you for taking the time to peruse the 11th CSR Report of Chunghwa Telecom. In 2016 we embody the brand spirit of 
“Always Ahead,” Chunghwa Telecom was the first one company who published its CSR Report in accordance with the “Global 
Reporting Initiative Standards” in Taiwan telecom industry. Upon that, we won the “Asia’s Most Transparent Report” award 
in the 2017 Asia Sustainability Reporting Award, which specifically shows Chunghwa Telecom’s excellent management and 
value-creating capabilities in sustainable issues.
As a responsible corporation, Chunghwa Telecom places much emphasis on CSR in addition to the pursuit of business growth 
and profits. Apart from to its efforts in corporate governance, environmental protection and social responsibilities, Chunghwa 
Telecom continues to utilize its information and telecom technologies to help Taiwanese businesses realize their sustainability 
goals and exert a positive social influence.

Corporate Overview
Corporate Governance
CSR Management14
18The SDGs CHT
contributions to
in this section
Three Telecom Laws: http://goo.gl/678ya
The main business of the branches and re-investments: Please refer to page 127 to 141 in the 2017 Annual Report.Chunghwa Telecom (TAIEX:2412  NYSE:CHT) is the largest integrated telecom carrier in T aiwan, with more than 750 service 
locations. Our business has three major areas: fixed and mobile communications, broadband access and the Internet. We also 
provide corporate customers with information and communication services, including big data, information security, and cloud 
and Internet information centers. We also offer innovative technology services, such as the IoT (Internet of Things) and AI (artificial 
intelligence), to create an outstanding communication environment and extraordinarily convenient digital life. We also have 
important business partnerships with other international telecom carriers.
Chunghwa Telecom has been actively involved in “corporate social responsibility” since 2006, and has won praise from many 
domestic and international professional organizations. The establishment of the “Corporate Social Responsibility Best Practice 
Principles” and legalization of the governance structure has prompted us to a stringent and ambitious practice of CSR.
Allow investors to enjoy 
the business profit from a 
satisfied customer base. 
Facilitate industry scale 
to expand in a good way 
with our contribution.
Create a gateway to an 
enjoyable digital life  
for people.Enhance the 
operational efficiency of 
corporations.We Strive toShareholders’ MeetingPresidentSecretariat 
of BoDAuditCompensation 
CommitteeAudit 
CommitteeStrategy 
CommitteeBoard of Directors Chairman & CEO
SEVP
&
CFO
Accounting
- 
Finance SEVP
Investment
Investment
- 
Public
AffairsSEVP
Administration
Human 
Resources
-
Legal
Affairs
-
Administration 
& Asset
-
Supply
-
Occupational 
Safety & 
HealthSEVP
Sales 
Business
Marketing
-
Information 
Technology
-
Customer 
Service
-
Cyber 
SecuritySEVP
Technology
Corporate 
Planning
-
Network
-
Digital 
Convergence 
Business
-
Research 
& Planning 
CommitteePresident 
of Business 
Group
Data  
Communi-  
cations  
Business  
GroupPresident 
of Business 
Group
Enterprise 
Business 
GroupPresident 
of TL
Telecom-
munication
LaboratoriesPresident 
of Business 
Group
Northern 
Taiwan 
Business 
Group
BranchesPresident 
of Business 
Group
Southern 
Taiwan 
Business 
Group
BranchesPresident 
of Business 
Group
Mobile 
Business 
Group
Taipei, 
Taichung, 
Kaohsiung 
BranchesPresident 
of TTI
Telecom-
munication
Training 
Institute
Taichung,
Kaohsiung 
BranchPresident 
of Business 
Group
International 
Business 
Group
Overseas 
OfficesCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Products and Services
hDomestic fixed network service
hDomestic leased line service
hInternet and value-added service
hMOD (IPTV) service
hInternational fixed network serviceHousehold Market
hMobile communication service
hWi-Fi service
hInternational fixed network
servicePersonal Market
hIntegrated service
hData security service
hMobile service
hData service
hInternational service
hDiversified integrated
payment serviceCorporate Market
Mobile
 Phone
Mobile 
Internet
100
Mbps
FTTx4G
HiNet
Customer Amount
Annual Growth10.452 million
-3.1%
Customer AmountAnnual Growth8.31 million
+11.4 %
Customer AmountAnnual Growth1.282 million
+9.5%
Customer AmountAnnual Growth7.987 million
+19.0 %
Customer Amount
79.5
% of the broadband customers3.552  million
Customer Amount
No. 1 Market share3.733  million
Mobile
Communication48.1 %
Customer
 AmountMarket
Share
10.452 million 36.5%Domestic Fixed Network 31.3 %
Customer Amount Market Share
Local Network 10.687 million 93.3%
Long-distance Network2,382 million minutes
 (traffic volume)82.7%
Broadband Subscriber 4.467 million 72.5%
MOD 1.602 million 23.5%
Communication
AmountMarket 
Share
854 million minutes 62.5%International
Fixed
Network 6.0 %Others 1.9%
Customer
 AmountMarket
Share
4.134 million 
households67.6%Internet 12.7 %
The Major
ProductCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
March
hWon the Finance Asia “2017
Best Company in Asia”-“Best
Corporate Governance” firstplace prize in the telecom
industry
hFirst telecom company in
Taiwan acquiring the “Cisco 
Golden Certificate”
April
hWon first place in telecom
brand and third place in
original brand in the “100Influential Taiwanese Brands”
hWon the Platinum Awards of
Reputation Brand in “Telecom
Service” and “4G InternetService” from Reader’s Digest
hWon the first place in
the telecom industry
of the “Golden ServiceIndustry Survey” from the
CommonWealth Magazine
consecutively
May
hWon the Exemplar Award in
Global Views Monthly’s 13th
“CSR Annual Grand Survey–Service Industry Division”
hReceived the nomination of the
“Asia Communication Award”-
“Annual Best CEO Award” and“Smart City Award”
hAwarded Top 5% of the
Corporate Governance
Evaluation from the TaiwanStock Exchange Corporation
2017 CSR Milestones
July
hThe Banqiao Cloud Data
Center won the “2017 the 2nd
Extraordinarily Smart GreenBuilding Contest”-Platinum
Award of the “Extraordinarily
Smart Green System Product”& Silver Award of the
“Extraordinarily Smart Green
Building Design”
hWon the “Joint Supply
Contract” of the cloud service
for three consecutive years
hWon the ISLA Award for four
consecutive years
August
hRanked top ten among the CommonWealth
Magazine’s “Excellence in Corporate Social
Responsibility” for 11 consecutive years
November
hAwarded by British Standards Institution (BSI) for the “Payment Safety
Contribution Award”
hWon the Platinum Award for five consecutive years in The Asset Corporate Award
hAwarded in the “2017 Asia Pacific Network Security Summit” for informationsecurity service “Pornography Goalkeeper”
hReceived six Taiwan Corporate Sustainability Awards, including the 10Sustainability Model Award of the Telecom Industry, the Golden Award of the
Information and Communication Industry Top 50, and the Society Communion,Transparency and Honesty,  Supply Chain Management and the Innovative 
Growth Awards
hWon the first place of the Global Views’ Five-Star Service Award of the telecom
industry division
October
hWon the “World Branding Awards” for
three consecutive years
hReceived the “2017 Exercise EnterpriseCertification”
hWon the "2017 CSEA ExtraordinaryCustomer Service Award"-
"Best Customer ExperienceManagement Corporation" and
"Best Service Innovative Team"
 December
hWon the “Best Brand Award” from
Business Today
hAwarded “Special Prize” and “FirstPrize” of “Buying Power- Social
Innovative Product and ServiceProcurement Awarding System” from
the Ministry of Economic Affairs
September
hSelected for FTSE4Good
“Emerging Index”
hSelected for Dow JonesSustainability Index
for the 6th time
hThe “Chunghwa Telecom 2016
CSR Report” received the
assurance from the SGS inaccordance with the “Global
Reporting Initiative
Standards”
Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Industry Value Chain
Due to technological advancements, boundaries of specialized markets that we used to know of are starting to shift, thus 
allowing industry participants to compete outside of their dominant markets. IDC has even combined ICT, e-Commerce, 
Electronics and Entertainment into a new segment called eICT to recognize the increasingly common cross-industry 
collaboration. 
The wave of digital convergence brings new values to the telecom industry and opportunities to meet users’ needs by offering 
innovative eICT services, which makes content providers and integrators, application service providers, network equipment 
suppliers and terminal equipment suppliers the important value partners to a telecom carrier in the development of digital 
convergence services.
Network Equipment 
SuppliersSoftware/ 
Data Security 
Service Provider System Integration 
Service Provider Content Providers
/Integration Service 
ProvidersApplication Service
Providers Terminal 
Equipment
Suppliers
Channel
Marketers
In the future, Chunghwa Telecom will continue to 
dedicate to the fixed network, mobile, data and 
eICT framework and strengthen collaborations 
with suppliers to offer the best services to our customers. By tightening coordination among the 
upstream, midstream and downstream, we shall be 
able to provide users with best quality service.
Users
ENSolar PV System 
Capacity 
527 kWp
Recycled Water
7,614
metric tonsPower Usage
1,363
million kWh
Carbon Emission
833
thousand t-CO 2e
ECCorporate 
Governance 
Evaluation
 Top 5%
Employee 
Satisfaction
80.56
(100-point scale)Consolidated 
Revenue
227.5
NT$ billion
Customer Service 
Satisfaction
 7.57
(10-point scale)
SOTotal Training 
Expense
514,082
NT$ thousand
Social 
Investment
1,164,080
NT$ thousandEmployee
Turnover Rate
4.2%
The Digital 
Good Neighbors
92
locationsNo.1 in the industry
No.1 in the industryIncrease by 1.6%For three consecutive years
Increase by 1%
Reduce 3% of expenditure
*With the intensive training policyReduce over 40 million kWh
Reduced by 6,000 metric tons Reduce emissions by 0.61 million t-CO2e
Increase 0.9%
*Number of retired employees increase
21% growth 12% growth*With the water use of
precision policyCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Corporate Governance
Chunghwa Telecom Board of Directors is the highest governing body. The Board of Directors is responsible for appointing 
and nominating high-level managers, as well as formulating and reviewing corporate social responsibility, and sustainable 
development strategies. 
The 8th Board has 13 directors. To date, there are 2 women and 11 men (including 4 independent male directors and 1 female 
independent director, and one of the male independent directors resigned on August 5, 2017, therefore there are only 12 directors now). Directors’ tenure is three years (June 24, 2016 to June 23, 2019). All of the independent directors are included 
in the Audit Committee to ensure the independence of governance and the perspectives of the stakeholders.
Chunghwa Telecom’s independent directors and outside directors provide expertise based on their respective areas of practice 
and professionalism, to assist the Board of Directors in making decisions as to benefit the company and the shareholders. To 
prevent personal liability and financial losses due to third-party litigation, we have purchased indemnity insurance for Directors.
Experiences of the Directors: Please refer to the 2017 Annual Report on page 18 to 21. 
°Continuing Education for Directors: Please refer to the 2017 Annual Report on page 80 to 81.
Board Diversity Policy
Chunghwa Telecom values diversity in Board of Directors and recruits talents primarily 
based on skill sets. Selection of directors is not limited to any particular gender, 
nationality or ethnicity. Directors are expected to have outstanding quality, industry 
experience and expertise to complement the board.  
C o n s i s t s  o f  t h e  i n d e p e n d e n t 
directors, whose main duties are 
to select or dismiss the CPA, 
determine the CPA compensation, review and discuss quarterly. semi-
annual, and annual financial reports, 
review the internal control system and examine and revise the content 
and appropriateness of the internal 
control statement.Audit Committee
Consists of seven board members, who 
are responsible for mid- and long-term 
development plans and other important 
issues, as well as major investment and mergers and acquisitions, major 
changes in organization and structure, 
the acquisition or surrender licenses, formulating and or modifying the 
annual operational plan and budget, 
increases or decreases in capital, and other important strategic issues. The 
resolutions are submitted to the full 
Board of Directors for final approval.Strategy Committee
Consisting of three independent 
directors, responsible for the 
evaluation of the performance 
of directors and managers, and for determination of appropriate 
compensation policies, wages, 
institutions, standards and structures.Compensation Committee
30-50
years of age
Above 51
years of age0
102
1CHT
 Board of 
Directors 
Avoidance of Conflict of Interest
Encouragement of Shareholders to Participate in Corporate GovernanceChunghwa Telecom’s Chairman is concurrently the CEO. The elections of directors comply with relevant laws and regulations, 
which suggest the Board and shareholders with qualified shareholding ratio nominate the candidates, and director’s nomination 
and review are conducted accordingly. 
In order to avoid conflicts of interest in the highest governance bodies, we conduct strict controls in accordance with the 
following procedures, including:
Chunghwa Telecom has made changes and revisions to several systems and measures based on a corporate governance 
mindset. These include e-voting, voting by poll and the disclosure of meeting resolutions made on the Company official 
website. These diverse voting channels allow shareholders to exercise their rights easily and this has made corporate governance more effective.Due to the directors’ high ethical standards and self-disciple, in the operation of the mechanism, no conflict of interest has 
occurred since the Board of Directors was established. Moreover, the Board has resolved to approve a total of 50 articles 
of “Code of Corporate Governance for Chunghwa Telecom,” while all departments are required to implement the Code of Conduct, and the secretariat also evaluates on a regular basis. hAll the new directors shall sign the Consent to Appointment to announce that they will follow Section 23 of the Company
Act, conduct faithful business and perform the duty of care as a bona fide manager.
hAll directors have to sign the Statement to show that they clearly knew the content of Section 206 of the Company Act.
hThe section 17 of Rules of Procedure of Board of Director defines the things that directors should recuse themselves with.
Date of data (The most recent book closure date): 2017/07/25Chunghwa Telecom Shareholder StructureCode of Corporate Governance: https://goo.gl/2Fm443
Individuals
40.06 %
Financial Institutions
18.31 %Shareholding 
RatioGovernment
Other InstitutionsForeign Institutions
and Individuals
7.09 %16.43 %18.11 %Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Creating Value for Shareholders
Chunghwa Telecom business operations have been stable for years. Profitability and financial completeness have been 
uninterrupted. We pay our taxes honestly, following the law, and make a solid contribution to the country. Despite the existence 
of many challenges in the telecom operation environment, we maintain complete focus on our field and create value for the 
shareholders. Chunghwa Telecom generated consolidated revenues totaling NT$ 227.5 billion in 2017, a decrease of 1.1% from 2016 and this represented a 98.4% accomplishment rate given the financial forecast for the current year.
The increasing popularity of smart mobile devices, information security, and the IoT technology, has resulted in a growth in 
revenue from value-added services, sales, and data subscriptions that covered the decline in voice services. Net income 
attributable to the parent company amounted to NT$ 38.9 billion while EPS reached NT$ 5.01 with a full-year accomplishment rate of 105.5%.
In 2017, Chunghwa Telecom income tax was the equivalent of an effective tax rate of 16.57%. The deviation from statutory 
17% tax rate was mainly attributed to the provisions of Article 4 of Income Tax Act, in that net dividends or net earnings recognized from local invested businesses are exempt from income tax. The application can be made for tax preference 
pursuant to Article 10 of the Statute for Industrial Innovation.
Tax policy of Chunghwa Telecom: http://www.cht.com.tw/csr/upload/files/Tax_Policy.pdf 
Unit: NT$ million  
*Operating costs and expenses included
Paid-up capital 77,574 Employee salaries and benefits 47,407
Revenues 227,514 Dividends paid to shareholders 38,337
Operating cost 146,837 Income tax paid 5,790
Operating expenses 33,869Expenses of social investment
/donations* 1,164
Retained economic value 2,681
Total number of 
employees in the 
company including 
subsidiaries
33,311 people
The Highest Moral Standard
We have set up the “Code of Ethics of Chunghwa Telecom Co Ltd,” “Ethical Corporate Management Best Practice Principle,” 
and “Procedures for Ethical Management and Guidelines for Conduct.” These are formulated as a basic ethical guideline to 
ensure that all employees engage in all activities with the highest standard. In addition to these codes being included in the 
training program for new hires, all employees are required to log into the web, review the material and take a test annually. A 
hotline was set to encourage employees to voice opinions safely and confidentially. All employees participated in the test in 
2017 except for those who were not available for a legitimate reason at the time of the test.
Chunghwa Telecom has prepared the “Employee Appraisal Guidelines” and “Employee Reward/ Disciplinary Standards” for the 
evaluation of performance. Rewards and sanctions are applied according to these rules whenever employees exhibit conduct 
deserving of them. Information such as a grievance hotline has been made available on the Chunghwa Telecom intranet/
employee portal. A total of 47 internal complaint cases (disciplinary and leak investigations) were accepted and closed in 2017. 
Six were associated with violation of the code of conduct (there were no corruption events). All complaints were investigated 
and handled according to company internal policies and principles, and taught as case studies to strengthen employee esteem 
for the rules, discipline, corporate image, and shareholders’ interests.Prevention of Corruption
Organization and functioning of Chunghwa Telecom’s internal audit unit: 
https://www.cht.com.tw/en/home/cht/about-cht/corporate-governance/internal-audit-functionEffectiveness of the internal control systems and operating efficiency. The internal audit unit answers to the Board and it 
conducts business audits in accordance with the regulations and policies. The annual audit plan is formulated based on the 
results of the risk assessment made at the end of every year. After the presentation and the approval of the Board, the plan is 
sent to the competent authorities via the Internet information system for their reference.The Internal Audit System
The corporate governance of Chunghwa Telecom places great emphasis on integrity, accountability, and trustworthiness. We 
are committed to reducing information asymmetry between the management and external stakeholders, and utilize a variety of 
means such as the corporate website, a Market Observation Post System, Annual Reports, CSR Reports, press conferences 
and investor conferences to facilitate transparent communication with stakeholders. Furthermore, measures have been taken 
to ensure the timeliness, quality, balance, and credibility of the information disclosed. 
Since the Securities and Futures Institute issued the Information Disclosure and Transparency Ranking in 2004, Chunghwa 
Telecom has been rated A++ every year. In 2017, the Company was ranked among the top 5% in the Corporate Governance 
Evaluation by the TWSE. These two achievements are a testament to the efforts we have devoted to information disclosure.Transparent Information Disclosure
To improve the quality of business marketing and consumers’ trust, we have formulated the “Business Marketing Standards” 
to ensure the execution of business aligns with the requirements of the competent authority, while including compliance 
status into the evaluation of higher management’s performance. Chunghwa Telecom received no penalty from the Fair Trade 
Commission in 2017.Strengthen Business Management
More information regarding protecting human rights refer to page 68 to 71 of this report.
Chunghwa Telecom Human Rights Policy: https://goo.gl/7BHsx2We willingly comply with the principles of The UN Global Compact and respect and uphold all basic human rights recognized 
in the world. We refrain from any disregard or neglect of such rights. In terms of employment practice, we protect the right of 
workers to freedom of association, while recognizing and supporting their rights to also negotiate with the employer. We are 
dedicated to eliminating all forms of illegal labor and discrimination.
Chunghwa Telecom has publicly disclosed its human rights policy and emphasizes the importance of such issues. It has a 
system in place to address violations and will continue with human rights protection as part of corporate policy. The Company 
openly states a respect for human rights and reviews human rights issues on a yearly basis. The company keeps detailed 
records of internal findings concerning human rights policy, including child labor, the rights of indigenous peoples, and supplier 
human rights assessment. Current practices are audited regularly and the findings are used for review and correction by 
relevant departments.
The Chunghwa Telecom Telecommunications Training Institute organizes human rights related courses on a yearly basis or 
when there is a change in labor regulations and policies. Three courses totaling 18 hours were held in 2017 and were attended 
by 240 employees.Supporting Global CSR Initiatives and GuidelinesCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
CSR Management
We launched a CSR management system in 2006, and established the “CSR Committee” to stipulate sustainable policies. 
We also established six CSR groups, using a top-down approach to achieve sustainable action.The Chunghwa Telecom 
sustainable development strategy utilizes the competence and unique resources of the company to implement sustainable 
action from the six groups with the focus on such matters as “Create social harmony, Digital inclusion, Green ICT products and services, Green brand management and Energy conservation and carbon reduction.”
Chunghwa Telecom’s CSR Vision
Innovation 
Excellence 
Sensation 
ReliabilityCorporate
Mission
Minimizing the digital divide
Implement environmental 
protection 
Caring for the vulnerableSocial
Contribution
Trust
Responsibility 
Sharing
GrowthTeam
Culture
Always caring,
Always aroundCustomer
Relations
Internalization and Communication of CSR
To ensure that all employees understand the spirit of CSR, we have established a diversity of channels for communications and 
education of related topics. The initiative integrated with a performance evaluation that helps to translate the concept of CSR 
into actions and is practiced in routine operations.Facilitate positive business evolution through
mobile, broadband, value-added and ICT integration
services
Develop emerging service opportunities such as
Cloud and IoT (Internet of things); work with partners
to generate best strategies.
Continue to strengthen the applications of Internet
facilities and information technologies to support
business transformation and growth.Strengthen resource utilization and management
mechanism to improve the efficiency of resources.
Develop overseas ICT market to explore newopportunities.
Sharpen the unique advantage of the subsidiaries toenhance the Company’s competitiveness.
Infuse telecom expertise into corporate socialresponsibility issues to implement the Company’s
commitment to corporate citizenship.Chunghwa Telecom Corporate Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles: 
https://www.cht.com.tw/home/cht/-/media/Web/PDF/About-CHT/Corporate-Governance/Other-Bylaws-EN/CSR_Best_Practice_
Principles_for_CHT.pdf
Channel Item Content
Communication 
Within Senior 
ManagementSenior 
Management 
MeetingMaterial CSR issues are discussed in the senior management meeting annually, 
and the resolution indicates our improvement and direction.
Employee
ForumChunghwa Telecom 
Online ForumWe have an intra-site for employees to share opinions with the company and make suggestions. We will discuss the issues of concern with the employees and resolve them in a timely fashion.
Employee
TrainingEnvironmental 
TrainingWe provide at least four hours of training every year as well as educational 
ecological tours that instill a spirit of environmental sustainability.
CSR TrainingWe provide CSR related education every year, and invite external consultants to 
run seminars and courses in accordance with international trends.
New Employee 
TrainingNew employees undergo three days of pre-service training that includes the personnel system, working guidelines, and labor relations. The Labor Standards Act is explained in detail with respect to labor-management coordination and the 
handling of disputes.
e-LearningWe post relevant training courses and information on the e-Learning system that can be downloaded and studied freely by the employees.
The CSR Committee 
The “Chunghwa Telecom CSR Committee” was established for expanding sustainable benefits of our core competence and 
implementing CSR vision as a starting point to promote the sustainable development of the industry and society.
RepresentativeYu Cheng, Chairman
Chi-Mau Sheih, President
Mechanism CSR Committee is responsible for coordinating each plan and supervising the progress of the policies 
approved by the Board of Directors. It also periodically reports the relevant issues and the results of communicating to stakeholders to the Board. The Board is in charge of the final performance evaluation 
every year.
ExecutionhThe Public Affairs Department is designated as CSR Secretariat.
hThe CSR Secretariat is responsible for relative policies and action planning. It is also in charge of
budgeting, educational training, and management of follow-ups and awards measures.
hThe 6 groups, branches and affiliates are responsible for promotions and implementation ofrelated projects.
Meeting Frequency Quarterly
Report Approval Reports are submitted to the Chairman for final approval after the managements’ (SEVP) review.
Chairperson: Chairman of the Board 
Vice Chairperson: President
CSR Secretariat
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation CEO
 Head Office Executive SEVP
 Main Department Director
Corporate 
Governance 
GroupEmployee 
Care GroupConsumer Care 
GroupEnvironmental 
Sustainability 
GroupDigital 
Opportunities 
GroupCorporate 
Volunteer Group
Channel Item Content
Annual
EvaluationAdministration 
Management
Sustainable 
Performance 
AssessmentWe set energy reduction targets and link the results with employees’ performance 
bonuses.
Online Test 
on CoC All our employees are required to take the “Chunghwa Telecom Code of Business Conduct and CoC Test” each year.
Reporting 
MechanismOnce an employee is found to violate corporate regulations, it will affect his/her 
performance bonuses.
Others CSR Report
Workshop Internal training on new ways of preparing reports is held from time to time.
Official Website, 
Social mediaTo coordinate with modern stakeholders’ communication pattern, we established dedicated CSR multimedia webpages on the official website and Youtube and a Facebook fan page as ways of communicating with our stakeholders.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation

Sustainability 
Value StrategyCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation

The result of our CSR input has been the creation of profit in corporate operation and a maximization of shareholder value. Our 
shareholder structure allows us to carry on a broad citizen responsibility. Our position in the ICT industry and the innovative 
products and service we provide give us the opportunity to use technology and innovation to control the risks and grasp 
opportunities. Our innovative products and services have a positive economic influence on the value chain, create sustainable 
value for the industry and the public and greatly minimize the negative impact on the environment.
CHT Sustainability Value Strategy
Creating Sustainability Value22
24hShare capital NT$ 77,574,465
thousand
hCapital expendituresNT$ 23,516,783 thousandFinancial Capital
 Human Resource Capital
hSalary and welfare expenses
NT$ 47,406,556 thousand
hTraining expenses NT$ 514,082
thousand
Manufacturing Capital
hEquipment installation and
maintenance expenses
NT$ 81,837,368 thousand
Social Capital
hSocial investment
NT$ 753,184 thousand
hUniversal telecom servicesNT$ 410,896 thousand
Six Main Capital
Create
Sustainability Value
Intelligence Capital
hR&D expenses NT$ 3,885,920
thousand
hMarketing expensesNT$ 25,356,999 thousand
hProcurement of green energy
NT$ 9,600 thousand
hGreen procurement NT$ 1,223,000thousand
hEnvironmental managementexpenses NT$ 300,722 thousandNature Capital
CHT Sustainability Value Strategy
Five Major Forces
Drive the
Sustainable Cycle
We utilize our ICT corporate core competence and 
integrate with CSR to establish the five main forces, 
"The Digital Economy Motivator, The Creative 
Industry Pilot, The Happiness Value Protector, The Green Corporation Pioneer, The Social Value Guide." 
We think that the input in these five main fields will 
help accomplish a society with digital inclusion and the future of sustainability development.The Digital Economy Motivator
The Creative Industry Pilot
The Happiness Value Protector
The Green Corporation Pioneer
The Social Value GuideVision
StrategyDigital economy transformation
hBecoming the 5G telecom leading
brand
hStimulating innovative applicationand creating new business models
Vision
StrategyConnect • Hope •  Technology
h5I SDGs digital inclusion initiative
hCorporate volunteer workVision
StrategyIndustrial innovation
Talent startup
hInvesting and fostering startup
business
hEncouraging innovation andstart-up internally
Vision
StrategyTransformation into a green 
corporation
h5G(Green) action
hConstructing a green and low-
carbon supply chainVision
StrategyHappy corporation  
Considerate services
hEstablishing a healthy
and happy workplace
hProtecting informationand labor human rights
hProviding excellentinnovative serviceCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Creating Sustainability Value
Our CSR issues and actions have created sound economic, environmental and social value. Although we have made serious 
efforts to adapt quantized data when setting-up and managing CSR plans, targets and performance, we have come to realize 
the difficulty of quantizing environmental and social values. There is still lots of true value that cannot be realized with the 
currency presently used as evaluation indicators of CSR performance.
Shareholders/Investors
hEPS NT$ 5.01
hConsolidated revenue NT$ 227.5 billion
hRanked among top 5% in TWSE’s
corporate governance evaluation for
the second time
hSelected for the Emerging Market
Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability
Index for the 6th time
h4G customer number amounted 7.987
million
Stakeholder
EndSix
Main 
CapitalsCorporation
End
Five Major Forces 
Drive the
Sustainable Cycle
Financial Capital
Intelligence 
Capital
Manufacturing 
Capital
Social Capital
Nature CapitalHuman Resource 
Capital
The Digital 
Economy Motivator
The Social Value GuideThe Creative 
Industry Pilot
The Green 
Corporation PioneerThe Happiness 
Value ProtectorConsolidated 
revenue
2,275
Innovative R&D 
investment
39
Economic
Value
Creating 
Sustainability 
Value
We have used a “True Value” method of calculation. Positive (+) and negative (-) currency values have been assigned in an 
assessment of our influence on society and the environment. This gives a sound idea of the real environmental and social value 
(profit and cost) of our sustainability efforts in 2017. The economic, social and environmental currency value CHT created on 
operation has also been blended in.
Clients
/Costumers
hWe have more than 59
thousand public Wi-Fi
hotspots
hThe customer satisfaction
score is 7.57 (10-point
system)
hThe customer hotline
service satisfaction score is
4.68 (5-point system)
Communities
/NPOs
hWe provide the disadvantaged
groups’ communication for
18,112 households
hThe subsidy amount is NT$
39.054 million
hCoverage rate of the 12Mbpsuniversal broadband service is
over 96%
hThe voice assistant App for the
blind has been downloaded
50,826 times
hThe locations of Digital Good
Neighbors has accumulated to
92 places
Supply Chain 
Partners
hThe local procurement
percentage takes
up 56% of the totalprocurement
hThe green
procurement amount
is NT$ 1.223 billion
Green 
procurement
12.23Renewable
energy
(green energy) 
procurement
0.1The
corporate 
volunteer
service
0.64Internal 
carbon pricing
 (greenhouse
gas emission)
-1.25General waste 
processing 
& domestic 
water resource 
management cost
-3.01Social
investment
100.64Total
2,423.35Positive Value
Negative Value
Unit: 
NT$ 100 million
Environmental
ValueSocial
Value
Employees
hEmployee salary and benefits are NT$
47.407 billion
hThe average training hours per personare 43 hours
hThe total training cost is NT$ 514.082million
hThe total service hours of the corporatevolunteer service are 14,201 hours
hThe occupational injury rate per thousandworkers is 1.16 for men and 1.57 for
women
hWe have 668 employees with disabilities
(the legal amount is 212 people)
hWe have 43 aboriginal employees
hThe employee satisfaction score is 80.56(out of 100)Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation

Material Topics
and Impact
2017 Material Topics and Impact
Stakeholders Engagement28
32The SDGs CHT
contributions to
in this section
We intend to provide all stakeholders concerning the future of Chunghwa Telecom as well as the telecom industry with a more 
comprehensive understanding of how Chunghwa Telecom has exerted its industry influence on CSR topics. This purpose has 
improved the quality of our actions and disclosures.
Process for Determining Material Topics45&1

45&1
45&1

45&1
Confirming determining process 
for material topics
Analysis/PrioritizingInformation collecting/ 
Topic identification
Result confirmation/ 
Materiality matrixThe CSR Secretariat calls for the six CSR 
working groups to confirm the material 
topics determining process of the current 
year. We perform through feedback and 
external questionnaires.
The CSR working groups analyze topics 
and hold discussions based on internal 
consideration, industry status, industry chain 
practice, and advice from stakeholders. The 
topics are prioritized according to urgency 
and seriousness and the level of impact.The CSR Secretariat is responsible for identifying CSR 
topics while taking into account CHT’s short-, mid- 
and long-term achievement and referring to material 
it collects including international guidelines, such 
as the GRI Standards, sustainability rating surveys, 
international business information benchmarks and the 
news related to CHT in 2017.
Members of the CSR working groups were invited to 
consider the relevance between the topics and the 
actual operation according to internal and external 
information. The 2017 topic identification results were 
confirmed and a materiality matrix was prepared for 
submission to the CSR Committee for approval.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
The Material Topic $)5Honghwa
SubsidiaryCHT 
Security
SubsidiaryEngineering
SuppliersEquipment 
Suppliers
Ensuring the shareholders’ equity ´ ½ ½ ½ ½
Building a happy business ´ ½ ½
The integrity and business ethics of the employees ´ ½ ½
Health and safety ´ ½ ½ ¶ ¶
Honest business activities ´ ½
Privacy rights protection ´ ½
Information on the products and service marketing ´ ½
Social and economic law compliance ´ ½
Environmental law compliance ´ ½
*Innovative ICT products and services ´ ¶ ½
*Social participation ´ ½
*Climate change ´ ½ ½
*Information security ´ ½ ½2017 Material Topics and Impact
CHT is an integrated telecom service provider. Except for the use of electricity at business locations, generator rooms, and 
data centers, our other service processes and mechanisms have no major negative impact on the environment and society. 
However, with over 20 thousand employees, the capabilities of value chain procurement and supply and business locations all 
over Taiwan, we understand that our ICT services and products can bring positive transforming and business opportunities to the industry, economic development and people’s life in Taiwan. Therefore, we seize opportunities and endeavor to decrease 
the potential risks from material CSR topics.
Within the 
organizationOutside the 
organizationRange of 
impact
Emerging 
Topics
2017
Emerging 
Material
 Topics 
DescriptionMaterial
TopicMaterial Influence
toward CHTMid-long Term Target Progress in 2017 Achieving Rate
Cost Revenue Risk
hMOD customer number to exceed 2 million by 2018
hIoT related revenue to reach NT$ 15 billion in 2020
hAI related revenue to exceed NT$ 3 billion in 2020
hPenetration rate of mobile payment customers to reach
90% in 2025hThe penetration rate of using mobile payment was 50%
hThe IoT platform user amount was 500 households 
hWe developed several AI applied products, such as face verification and big data traffic status analysis
hWe were honored with the Chairman of the “Mobile Payment Applied Service Alliance”Within expectation Innovative 
ICT 
products 
and 
services´
Social 
participation´
hSocial investment to reach 1% of revenue in 2020 hSocial investment was NT$ 1,164,080 thousand, which was 0.51% of the revenueWithin expectation 
Climate 
change´hElectricity used in IDC generator rooms to reduce by
10% in five years
hSolar PV System Capacity> 1,000 kWphThe capacity of renewable energy construction was 527 kWpWithin 
expectation 
Information 
security´hThe revenue of perjury prevented cloud products reaches
500 million by 2020
hThe revenue will reach NT$ 3 billion by 2022hWe founded CHT Security Co., Ltd. to provide better and more integrated information security solutionsWithin 
expectation Note:´ : direct impact; ¶: indirect impact; ½: impact from business relations.
2.Except for the impact within the CHT organization (including 2 subsidiaries), the influence of the external impact is
determined by the “supplier type.”
3. CHT also promotes relative management principles and actions. For detailed topic information, please refer to the
corresponding chapter and page.
4. The mark “ * ” represents the emerging topics determined in 2017. Attention has been drawn to them by stakeholders
and they will influence our mid- and long-term development. We are disclosing this information because they willbecome part of our future goals, with designated chapters, even though they are not material topics at the present
time.
The Materiality Matrix
To ensure that all employees understand the spirit of CSR, we have established a diversity of channels for communications and 
education about related topics. The initiative is integrated with a performance evaluation that helps to translate the concept of 
CSR into actions and is practiced in routine operations.
-PX)JHI
)JHI
Influence of stakeholder assessments
Significant impacts on the economy, environment, and societyInformation security*Climate change
*Social participationEnvironmental law compliance
Honest business activitiesPrivacy rights protection
Ensuring the shareholders’ equity
Information on the products and 
service marketing
Health and safety
Social and economic law compliance Building a happy business
The integrity and business 
ethics of the employees
*Innovative ICT products and services
2017
Emerging 
Material
 Topics 
DescriptionMaterial
TopicMaterial Influence
toward CHTMid-long Term Target Progress in 2017 Achieving Rate
Cost Revenue Risk
hMOD customer number to exceed 2 million by 2018
hIoT related revenue to reach NT$ 15 billion in 2020
hAI related revenue to exceed NT$ 3 billion in 2020
hPenetration rate of mobile payment customers to reach90% in 2025hThe penetration rate of using mobile payment was 50%
hThe IoT platform user amount was 500 households
hWe developed several AI applied products, such as face verification and big data traffic status analysis
hWe were honored with the Chairman of the “Mobile Payment Applied Service Alliance”Within 
expectation Innovative 
ICT 
products 
and 
services´
Social 
participation´ hSocial investment to reach 1% of revenue in 2020 hSocial investment was NT$ 1,164,080 thousand, which was 0.51% of the revenueWithin 
expectation 
Climate 
change´hElectricity used in IDC generator rooms to reduce by
10% in five years
hSolar PV System Capacity> 1,000 kWphThe capacity of renewable energy construction was 527 kWpWithin 
expectation 
Information 
security´hThe revenue of perjury prevented cloud products reaches500 million by 2020
hThe revenue will reach NT$ 3 billion by 2022 hWe founded CHT Security Co., Ltd. to provide better and more integrated information security solutionsWithin 
expectation Note: 1. The materiality threshold:  2.5 and above for both the X-axis and the Y-axis (3 point scale). The mark “ * ” represents 
the new topics determined in 2017. Due to the concerns of our stakeholders and the substantial influence of the 
company’s mid and long-term development, we disclose the information and future goals in a designated chapter 
despite that they are not the material topics identified this year.
2.Chunghwa Telecom also willingly discloses topics that are not identified as material topics in 2017, please refer to the
topics with “ * ” in the GRI Index catalog.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Sustainability 
AspectMaterial Topics Meaning to CHTTopic corresponding with 
the GRI StandardsManagement
principle (page number)UN SDGs
EconomicEnsuring 
shareholders’ 
equityThe distribution of share dividends maintains the confidence of shareholders and 
investors in our operation, and increases the likelihood of our stock being held over 
the long term.Economic Performance 16
The integrity and 
business ethics of 
the employeesEmployees who carry out their duties with the highest ethical standard not only 
comply with the regulations but also give themselves the opportunity to reflect upon 
themselves favorably when performing their business activities.Anti-corruption 17
Honest business 
activitiesHonest governance and upright management are the foundation of our operations. 
Our strict procedures and guidelines for operational conduct prevent any breaches of 
the regulations and unethical behavior.Anti-competitive Behavior 17
EnvironmentalEnvironmental law 
complianceWe have undertaken the responsibility of becoming a green corporation with real 
sustainable development and we comply with all the relevant environmental laws 
and regulations. We earnestly request all others in the ICT industry to accelerate their 
move towards green living and help to bring it to all sectors of society.Environmental Compliance 40
SocialBuilding a happy 
businessWe have established complete worker benefits which exceed the legal requirements 
in an effort to increase the welfare of our employees. They feel more secure and 
happy in their work. This improves the quality of work and also gives employees a 
feeling of security that also prompts hard work and better results.Labor/Management Relations 55
Health and safetyWe make every effort to ensure workplace safety and comply with every law and 
regulation to maintain a fine occupational safety and health management system in a 
secure workplace.Customer Health Safety 72
Product information 
and service 
marketingWe provide the most comprehensive products and services information as well as 
excellent professional service that makes it possible for our customers to quickly find 
the most suitable solution for their needs. Marketing and Labeling 17
Privacy protectionWe continue to strengthen customer data and information security. We use several 
diverse processes and systematic regulations, to prevent data leaks, intrusions, or 
improper searches, that might result in the disclosure of confidential information.Customer Privacy 74
Social and 
economic law 
compliance CHT insists on strictly honest and upright operation as a core value. Employees are 
urged to adhere exactly to all the laws and regulations through the regular promotion 
of company policy.Socioeconomic Compliance 17
Emerging
TopicInnovative ICT 
products and 
serviceInfluence of the global industry chain, has made it impossible for the original output 
value of the telecom industry to correspond to the convergence era. We are therefore 
actively strengthening our original core business to bring revenue to the Company 
through innovative ICT products and services.
Social
ParticipationWe hope to build an environment that has no technological or information barriers, 
using our original business, which is telecommunication.
Climate
changeClimate change is an issue that has a close relationship to the operation of a 
corporation. We are actively establishing plans and setting goals to reduce the costs 
and risks related to climate change in the value chain.
Information
securityAs the biggest general telecom service provider in the country, we continue to 
improve our information security system and management strategies under constant 
external threat to information security and even changes in the Law.2017 Material Topics Description
Sustainability 
AspectMaterial Topics Meaning to CHTTopic corresponding with 
the GRI StandardsManagement
principle (page number)UN SDGs
EconomicEnsuring 
shareholders’ 
equityThe distribution of share dividends maintains the confidence of shareholders and 
investors in our operation, and increases the likelihood of our stock being held over 
the long term.Economic Performance 16
The integrity and 
business ethics of 
the employeesEmployees who carry out their duties with the highest ethical standard not only 
comply with the regulations but also give themselves the opportunity to reflect upon 
themselves favorably when performing their business activities.Anti-corruption 17
Honest business 
activitiesHonest governance and upright management are the foundation of our operations. Our strict procedures and guidelines for operational conduct prevent any breaches of 
the regulations and unethical behavior.Anti-competitive Behavior
17
EnvironmentalEnvironmental law 
complianceWe have undertaken the responsibility of becoming a green corporation with real sustainable development and we comply with all the relevant environmental laws and regulations. We earnestly request all others in the ICT industry to accelerate their 
move towards green living and help to bring it to all sectors of society.Environmental Compliance
40
SocialBuilding a happy 
businessWe have established complete worker benefits which exceed the legal requirements 
in an effort to increase the welfare of our employees. They feel more secure and happy in their work. This improves the quality of work and also gives employees a 
feeling of security that also prompts hard work and better results.Labor/Management Relations
55
Health and safetyWe make every effort to ensure workplace safety and comply with every law and 
regulation to maintain a fine occupational safety and health management system in a secure workplace.Customer Health Safety
72
Product information 
and service 
marketingWe provide the most comprehensive products and services information as well as excellent professional service that makes it possible for our customers to quickly find 
the most suitable solution for their needs. Marketing and Labeling
17
Privacy protectionWe continue to strengthen customer data and information security. We use several
diverse processes and systematic regulations, to prevent data leaks, intrusions, or improper searches, that might result in the disclosure of confidential information.Customer Privacy
74
Social and 
economic law 
compliance CHT insists on strictly honest and upright operation as a core value. Employees are urged to adhere exactly to all the laws and regulations through the regular promotion 
of company policy.Socioeconomic Compliance
17
Emerging
TopicInnovative ICT 
products and 
serviceInfluence of the global industry chain, has made it impossible for the original output value of the telecom industry to correspond to the convergence era. We are therefore 
actively strengthening our original core business to bring revenue to the Company through innovative ICT products and services.
Social
ParticipationWe hope to build an environment that has no technological or information barriers, 
using our original business, which is telecommunication.
Climate
changeClimate change is an issue that has a close relationship to the operation of a 
corporation. We are actively establishing plans and setting goals to reduce the costs and risks related to climate change in the value chain.
Information
securityAs the biggest general telecom service provider in the country, we continue to improve our information security system and management strategies under constant external threat to information security and even changes in the Law.
Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Stakeholders Engagement
We have always thought that “Chunghwa Telecom is not just Chunghwa Telecom,” it is much more. As the leading brand in the 
telecom industry in Taiwan, CHT focuses on industry development and competition. In addition to good products, services and 
profits, we also use our influence to give back to society. We also pay close attention to the voices of our internal and external 
stakeholders before making careful responses to the needs of society.
The identification of the stakeholders and their issues is a very important part of the practice of CSR. We have established a 
stakeholder identification and negotiation process in accordance with AA 1000SES (2015), interacting and communicating with 
stakeholders through diverse channels.
In the initial meeting of CSR report preparation, we invite members from all departments to exchange the issues related to 
current key stakeholders and their concerns. Upon reaching mutual understanding, the result is incorporated into a table that is 
regarded as an essential reference for the disclosures in the report. In the process of promoting CSR activities and information 
disclosure, we consult the opinion of the internal and external stakeholders, important relevant mechanisms include:
Chunghwa Telecom Stakeholder Engagement Guidelines:
https://www.cht.com.tw/home/cht/-/media/Web/PDF/Sustainability/Csr-se/Stakeholder_engagement_guideline_en.pdfh“Consultation meeting with external professionals” for CSR report
hRegular invitation of external professionals to the “CSR Conference” and relevant forums
hThe “Supplier CSR Interchange Meeting” is held every year
CHT was the first to create “CSR videos” and the CHT official YouTube CSR program to record the implementation of CSRaction on a regular basis, as well as the collection of internal and external feedback for further improvement.See: https://www.cht.com.tw/en/home/cht/about-cht/brand-and-service/advert/csr
hSpecialists designated for CSR and the CHT Foundation
Meaning 
to 
Chunghwa 
TelecomCHT relies on the stable 
support of suppliers to manage their large range of products and services.We need to be accountable to our shareholders and investors.Employees are critical to CHT development as a driving force for sustainable growth. When users begin to show preferences for our products we can be sure of the value of our 
company.
Focused 
Topic
hEnvironmental
Compliance
hSocioeconomicCompliancehEconomicPerformancehLabor/ManagementRelations
hAnti-corruptionhCustomer Privacy
hMarketing andLabeling
hCustomer Health andSafety
Communication 
FrequencyReal-time
Real-time or at least quarterly Real-time Real-timeCommunication 
ChannelhE-mail
hHotline
hCSR supplier social
event
hSurveyhStockholder hotline
hResults callhE-mail
hTelephone call
hOnline forum
hLabor-employermeetinghService hotline
hCustomer servicecenter
CHT’s 
StakeholdersShareholders
/Investors
Employees Customers Suppliers
A B C D
We wish to create a 
better future by giving back to society.Our sustainable development has grown under the mentorship 
of the media and 
accreditation institute.Our products, services and related marketing behaviors are subject to 
audits by the competent 
authority.We engage in fair completion for healthy development.
hEnvironmental
Compliance
hMarketing andLabeling
hSocioeconomicCompliancehAnti-corruption
hMarketing andLabelinghAnti-competitiveBehavior
hAnti-corruption
hEnvironmentalCompliance
hSocioeconomicCompliancehMarketing andLabeling
Real-time Real-time Real-time Once or twice a yearhE-mail
hHotline
hStakeholder briefinghE-mail
hHotline
hPress release
hPress conference
hSurveyhE-mail
hOfficial document
hMeeting
hTelephone call
hVisithOfficial document
hMeeting*OGMVFODFE
CZ$)5CHT is responsible of
making response
May affect 
CHT’s
operational
performance"( %
#&
$)'
Communities
/NPOsMedia
/Accreditation 
InstitutesCompetent
AuthoritiesCompetitors
E F G HCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Result 3- The CSR Supplier Social Event Enables Management of the Supply Chainh1 annual general
meeting
h4 quarterly operational 
reports
h4 results callh292 press releases in total
h26 press conferences in total
Shareholders/
InvestorsMediah6 labor-management
conferences
h1 unscheduled meetinghNegotiating and
communicating with the
competent authorities, suchas the Legislative Yuan, on
1,214 casesCompetent 
Authorities
Employees
hApproximately 80
suppliers participating in
the environmental andeducational visiting tour
hApproximately 100
suppliers participating in
the “CSR 2017 SupplierSocial Event”hThe “123 customer
service hotline” has
served over 40 millionpeople
SuppliersCustomers2017 Results of Critical Stakeholders Engagement 
Result 1- Overall Employee Salary Increase with an Average of 3.54%
To satisfy the needs of our operations and expanding the business, we publicly recruit new 
employees and maintain an excellent workforce. To encourage high performance, we convened 
an unscheduled Board meeting to approve an overall salary increase in 2017. The average raise 
was 3.54% with a maximum of 5%, and was effective from January 1st, 2018. This was the biggest salary raise during our 12 years of privatization and we expect it to encourage employees 
in all aspects. We also expect better morale and higher performance, making CHT “The Digital 
Economy Motivator and The Creative Industry Pilot.”
Result 2- The Digital Good Neighbors Program Provides Information Equality in the Communities
When implementing the “Digital Good Neighbors” program, and to make the best of limited resources, the CHT Foundation 
assessed the needs of the communities through regular interaction with the local populations.
Construction assessment: Applicants are required to complete a “Digital Good neighbor Application Form” to allow an
assessment to be made of the status of the community. After a review, meetings are held with the local key person and
on-site visits are also made. Internal discussions and further assessment of the feasibility of cooperation are held a fullunderstanding of the community and the matter has been reached.
Maintenance: Regular and random meetings are held with the key person to get feedback about the project. This
interaction allows us to better determine the needs of the community and allows a better and more even distribution of
available resources.
Implementation of the annual Foundation projects starts with a specific community need. During long-term interaction with “the good neighbors,” the community or tribe will also reciprocate to the Foundation. These interactions form a basis for 
modification of the project over the years in an effort to fully meet the local needs.
The annual procurement of CHT 
exceeds NT$ 40 billion. The items 
procured extend over a wide range, 
from broadband, mobile and fixed network devices to customer terminal 
products such as cell phones, tablets 
and laptops. At the annual CSR supplier social event in 2017, we 
announced that we had joined the 
“CDP Supply Chain Project” and officially started the application of 
carbon management to our supply 
chain. We started gradually by using counseling to encourage suppliers to 
reduce carbon emission. In the long 
term, we will include carbon reduction performance into bidding documents 
to make it a requirement. This means 
that suppliers will only be able to place bids with CHT after completing a 
predetermined level of carbon emission 
reduction.
Video record of the eventCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation

Sustainability
Risks and
Opportunities
Climate Change Risks
Information Security RisksEmerging Risks
Emerging Opportunities40
4438
38The SDGs CHT
contributions to
in this section
CHT places emphasis on the control of the corporate operation and sustainability risk. In 2016, the Company established a 
Risk Management Committee with the President as convener and senior managers as members. The committee supervises 
risk management throughout the organization and is responsible for prioritizing identified risks, formulating response strategies 
to key risk issues, and reporting to the board of directors when deemed necessary. Through control of the mechanism at each level, potential risks and loss to the Company can be minimized.
Aspects Description
Organizational 
AspecthThe “Risk Management Committee” was established
Strategic
AspecthThe BoD established the risk management strategy and structure
hThe “Risk Management Regulations” were established as a foundation and are followed by all
employees engaged in business operations
Management 
SystemhThe Enterprise Risk Management system (ERM) was established for the regular control of risk ineach division of the business
Assessment
ToolhWe use a “Risk Analysis Matrix” as a tool for the assessment of legal risk, network maintenancerisk, market competition risk and financial operations risk
hFor major operational items and relative CSR issues, we use sensitivity analysis and the pressure
test to enhance performance
Audit AspecthThe Executive Secretariat promotes risk management activity throughout the Company
hThe Auditor reviews all risks and reports to the BoD
Feedback and 
Improvement hRisk status is followed up on a monthly basis and reports are regularly sent to the Risk
Management Committee
hThe Committee improves the current risk management mechanism based on feedback fromindividual units to ensure the process is up to date and satisfies the operational need
CHT Risk Management Organization Structure
BoD/Audit
Committee
Risk Management
Committee
Risk Management 
Managing Unit
Risk Management
Executing Unit
President
Executive
President Secretariat
Audit Unit
Forming the Management System with the Organizational Structure to Increase the Overall Risk 
Management Efficiency
To further enhance risk management, the Risk Management Committee has divided subordinate branches and the 
operational risks into 16 categories. Some of these include strategy, information security, operational marketing, network maintenance, law, and occupational safety, according to Company organization in 2017. We will enhance risk management 
performance evaluation in 2018 to make risk management more effective.
You can find information related to risk management on page 115 to 116 in our 2017 Annual Report.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Emerging Risks
Emerging OpportunitiesCHT continues with advanced technological research and development to take advantage of the many business opportunities 
in this digital convergence era and reduce operational risk. We absorb, cultivate and make good use of excellent available 
talent to integrate Internet and marketing resources. We cooperate closely with our strategic partners in the launch of new 
services and products that satisfy our customers. We have become “The Digital Economy Motivator and The Creative Industry Pilot,” and we create values for clients, shareholders, employees and society.
The new 5G technology will drive intelligent technological applications. AI will be everywhere around us in the future. 
Completely new types of services such as AIoT (AI and IoT) will become the core of fast convergence. The rise of new industries, edge computing, the volume of the IoT, drones, AR, VR and the intelligent family, will push corporations in Taiwan 
to move their business emphasis. We predict that the global output value of AI hardware will exceed NT$ 5 trillion. This will 
inevitably become an important force in pushing global economic growth.CHT IoT intelligent internet platform: http://iot.cht.com.tw/iot/Risk Factor Potential Influence (Obstacles)
Opportunity Factor Potential Business Opportunity
IoT/Big DatahInternational research institutes predict that the derivative application of the
IoT will produce installation business opportunities amounting to some NT$
30 to 50 billion in 2020.
hThe global IoT output value in 2025 will be US$ 6 trillion.
Information Security 
ManagementhSonicWALL reported that in 2017 the number of blackmail attacks on company IT 
systems grew to 638 million, 167 times that of 2016.
hGartner predicts that company investment in information security will rise to US$114.8 billion by 2020 with a compound annual growth rate of 7.9% around the globe.
hIn 2017, company investment in information security in Taiwan was NT$ 30 billion. The annual growth of 14.5% is higher than the global average.Development of 5GhForecasts show that 5G technology will result in an output of US$134 billionto the companies in Taiwan in 2035.Energy supply
stabilityhA stable and sufficient electricity supply
hThe establishment of renewable energyThe 5G business
model is unclearhThe cost of our 4G investment has not been fully recovered and 5G belongsto the high-frequency spectrum. We predict that serious investment will need 
to made to satisfy the requirements for new construction in the near future.The decrease in 
the voice revenuehMarket competition and VoIP , has caused a slight decrease in voice revenue
hWe continue to maintain our competitive edge in broadband Internet, even inthe face of low price competition from cable television.
The scale of blackmail software and other kinds of illegal activity that uses Internet technology has increased by 40 times in recent 
years. The growth rate of information leaks has also increased by a factor of 2.8. Threats to information security have become 
multifaceted and compound. This has made integrated information security services an immediate need and a serious future risk. 
CHT has extensive experience in the field of information security, and has cultivated a deep and complete integrated service. During the 2017 Lunar New Year, there were several serious attacks on the IT systems of some securities and futures companies. 
However, those using our deep multilevel information security service, all successfully avoided attacks.Enhancement and Response Mechanism 
Enhancement and Response Mechanism 
hCHT is forming a national IoT team in a coalition with several international and Taiwanese companies to build a
competitive IoT industry in Taiwan. There are now 40 first-tier companies in the alliance.
hWe have developed our own intelligent IoT internet platform that combines five of our main services, informationsecurity, big data, blockchains, AI and AR.
hThe “SOC Information Security and Integration Monitoring Center” has also been established and one of its mainfunctions is hacker information control and the processing of information about security events.
hCHT “EyeQuila” is the first information security service in the world that uses a retrospective detection concept. Theapplication can collect, store and analyze information security data.
hThe “FIDO Biometrics” application was developed to recognize fingerprints on cell phones or other devices. CHT wasthe first ISP company to implement such a service.
hWe also founded CHT Security to provide an information security service that integrates both hardware and softwaresecurity. Our own internal research and development technology has been used to expand the market scale and
launch new products. We plan to build an international information security company using a combination of brand,research, development and service.hWe are cooperating with the 5G office in DoIT, the Industrial Technology Research Institute, and the Institute for
Information Industry, in the launch of the “Taiwan 5G Industry Development Alliance-CHT leading team” project.hWe are increasing the percentage of self-built renewable energy devices and have set up emergency power generatingequipment to avoid interruption to our services in times of crisis.hWe have developed an IoT intelligent internet platform by combining five main services, information security, big data,blockchains, AI and AR.
hWe expect IoT applications to develop rapidly with the advent of 5G and we already have 3 million phone numbersauthorized by the NCC. We intend to provide IoT for both industrial and domestic applications.hIn addition to enhancing current core business, we continue with new product research and development, as wellas service and value-added applications. These include video service, information security, IoT, the cloud, mobile
payment and other new business.
hWe are concentrating on applications related to big data, information security, the cloud, IoT, 5G and the intelligent
city. CHT is being transformed into the leading brand for information, communications and digital convergence.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Climate Change RisksGlobal climate change has recently become rather severe. As a part of the global supply chain, CHT also faces the potential 
risks and pressure of energy conservation and carbon reduction. To ensure that we are able to respond to climate change 
issues in a timely fashion we comply strictly with all the environmental laws and regulations and maintain our leading position in 
the industry. We make sure that stakeholders have no reason to question our behavior or reputation, and confirm and identify 
the potential risks, and even opportunities, presented by climate change.
We have established an organized “Corporate 
Strategy and Environmental Sustainability” 
system with set goals and manage all 
environmental information with our own 
Environmental Sustainable Development and 
Management System (EARTH).Internal In our efforts to establish a green operation we 
have adopted the “green products and services” 
philosophy. We use professional energy saving 
technology and services that help industrial 
companies easily manage energy conservation.External The core competence, technology and the business acumen of CHT will be the key to 
energy conservation and carbon reduction in the future, and also make it easier to cope 
with the coming mobile and cloud era. We will use internal and external strategy to realize 
our vision of environmental sustainability. Corresponding 
Strategy
The Potential Operational Risks Caused by Climate Change
The impact of the greenhouse effect, rising global temperatures and the aggravation of extreme climate, have caused some
areas of Taiwan to experience more severe typhoons and flooding while other parts face serious water shortage. Such crises
affect both industrial and domestic water use and effort has to be made to reduce the severity and avoid disastrous outcomes.Resources need to be made available for action in cases of natural disaster, and the equipment used must be properlymaintained and be available for further use after disasters and operational energy must also be easy to acquire.
We will establish greenhouse gas emission control and also allow carbon rights transactions in accordance with the “Greenhouse 
Emission Reduction and Management Act” of Taiwan. The CHT Internet and the operation of the generator room depend on a
huge amount of energy and the relative input has a direct effect on company finances.
Opportunities 
and ActionsWe have adopted the following strategies to cope with potential regulations and 
international environmental and climate initiatives in a timely manner:
Engagementwith the
stakeholdersWe focus closely on domestic and international law changes and communicate actively with 
the competent authorities and stakeholders.
Planning 
environmental 
sustainability schemeWe have amended our “Five-year Plan of Strategy and Goal for Environmental Sustainability Development,” which set in 2015, to target “green corporation,” “green sustainability” and “green innovation” and have actively expanded our environmental actions. Furthermore, we 
have established a generator room disaster prevention and climate adaption plan to enhance 
our disaster response measures.
Import and 
develop 
renewable energyIn 2016 we established an “Energy Office” targeting three main areas, solar energy,
wind energy, and LED. We cooperate with subcontractors in the generation of solar
energy and install solar panels on the roofs of rented spaces. After connection to thepower grid, we can provide the leasing contractor with power, and sell any excess backto Taipower. We have been assessing the possibility of participation in governmentbidding or investment in Taipower wind energy projects where we could put our telecom
expertise and experience of energy conservation and carbon reduction to good use.
We have installed photovoltaic panels on base stations in some of the remote mountain
areas to provide green power and reduce energy consumption and carbon emission.
In the event of mains power loss due to natural disaster, or breakdown at Taipower, thesolar facilities can provide emergency power for the base stations.
We have responded to the government’s renewable energy development efforts by the
purchase of 2 million kW of green electricity in 2015, 4 million in 2016, and 6 million in
2017, and took first place among all the companies in Taiwan.
Greenhouse 
gas emission 
managementWe carry out a greenhouse gas inventory and verification every year and publish all the relative information. We use our self-developed EARTH system, to control environmental 
resources and the effectiveness of energy conservation to increase efficiency in 
environmental management.We also joined the CDP Supply Chain Project in 2017. We gained an understanding of carbon 
emission data produced by the supply chain, how the inventory was calculated and what 
concrete action was necessary. This will be used as a basis for setting the carbon reduction goals for the supply chain in the future.
Developing 
green 
products and servicesIn addition to reducing the influence of our operations and product services on the environment, CHT also considers crises to be opportunities, at least with respect to products 
and service. We are reducing our carbon footprint through green innovative services 
including, video conferencing, the use of electronic billing, cloud products and several other technology innovations. We also make good use of our technological advantage in the field 
to improve current products and also use it to build intelligence into the city. The intelligent 
taxi sending system is an example which helps avoid empty journeys and reduces gas consumption. We will continue to develop more efficient ways to use energy and investigate 
low carbon emission solutions in collaboration with our customers.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
The total greenhouse gas emission in 2017 was 832,987.46 t-CO 2e. This includes six GHGs of CO 2, CH 4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs 
and SF 6. As an integrated telecom carrier, most of the energy consumed by Chunghwa Telecom is purchased electricity, 
classed as Scope 2 gas emission and accounted for 96.29% of total gas emission. The source of Scope 1 gas emission is 
normally greenhouse gas from offices and accounted for 3.71% of total gas emission.
In 2013 Chunghwa Telecom started discussions about the carbon footprint associated with business travel by employees. 
Boundaries were set at “Scope 3,” as specified by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), while 
emission was calculated based on mileage. Company Scope 3 emissions were 267.13 kg-CO 2e in 2017. Employee business 
travel emission was calculated based on two main forms of transportation: high-speed rail and air travel.Greenhouse Gas Emission Management
Green TransportationUnit: t-CO 2e 2015 2016 2017
Direct Emissions (Scope 1) 26,994.3 27,345.62 30,873.98
Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) 807,750.98 811,826.45 802,113.48
Total Emissions Amount (Scope 1+Scope 2) 834,745.37 839,172.07 832,987.46
GHG Intensity(t-CO 2e/NT million ) 3.6 3.7 3.7
Coverage of Revenue 100% 100% 100%
Land Transport
 (High-speed Rail) 
GHG EmissionsAir Transport 
(Aircraft) 
GHG Emissions
194,590  kg-CO 2e 72,543.23  kg-CO 2e
Total GHG 
Emissions
267,133.23
kg-CO 2e
Note: GHG inventories and certification 
are made in accordance with the 
ISO 14064-1 standard, and the 
value of Global warming potential 
is referred to IPCC in the Fourth 
Assessment Report (2007). All 
data are certified by SGS-Taiwan.
CHT places great emphasis on carbon management risk. In 2017 we combined the GHG emissions and relative operation and 
activities and carbon pricing management was used to do a pressure test in respect to risk management. This was important 
for compliance with the restrictions of future laws, such as the “Greenhouse Emission Reduction and Management Act,” and 
for responding to requests from stakeholders. Promotion of energy conservation and emission reduction, and the establishment of a renewable energy system are very important aspects of carbon management risk.
Internal carbon pricing as a negative environmental reduction value was used as a pressure test for scenario 2 “fines for 
exceeding the total emission amount in the Greenhouse Emission Reduction and Management Act.” Although no total GHG 
emissions amount has yet been specified for the ICT industry in the Greenhouse Emission Reduction and Management Act, we voluntarily set the mid-long term carbon reduction goal as a basis for carbon price calculation. Evaluation of our internal energy 
conservation and carbon reduction project is carried out on the same basis. Internal Carbon Pricing
Note: 1. Sources from National Renewable Energy Certification Center
2. The green electricity add-on charge was NT$ 3.12/kW in 2017, and the price dropped to NT$ 1.06/kW during the
promotion. But the actual green electricity fee of using 1kW was NT$ 2.5+NT$ 1.06=NT$ 3.56.
3. Shadow price: It is the hypothetical cost of processing the GHG emissions. The risks and opportunities behind the
GHG emission are concretely quantified to be the reference for the project promoting or capital expense decision.
4. Scenario 1: 100% renewable energy use (such as green electricity).
5.Scenario 2: After the inclusion of a system of fines for exceeding a total GHG emission limit has been included in theGreenhouse Emission Reduction and Management Act an enterprise will be fined a maximum of NT$ 1500 per metric
ton for exceeding such specified limit.
6. The actual price in scenario 2 has been estimated in accordance with our voluntary emissions reduction goal for mid-
long term carbon management. 2017 was taken a base for a 10% reduction in greenhouse gas emission from ourbuildings in 2023. The amount of GHG emission in 2017 was 832,987.46 t-CO
2e. If the 10% voluntary goal is not
reached, we estimate that emission of 83,298.75 t-CO 2e will be subject to a fine.
CHT Internal Carbon Pricing Analysis
The Scenario 
for Carbon 
Management RiskCarbon Pricing of Use 
(Shadow Price)GHG
Emission ScopeInterfered Business 
Location AmountActual Carbon Pricing
(NT$ 100 million)
100% renewable 
energy useNT$ 3.56
/kWScope 2Headquarters and the 
business locations 48.51 
Fine for exceeding 
the total emission 
amount in the 
Greenhouse Emission 
Reduction and 
Management ActNT$ 1500
/t-CO 2eScope 1
Scope 2Headquarters and the 
business locations 1.25 
Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
A progress report and any information 
about new risks are sent to the Risk 
Management Committee for action. 
Reviews and modifications to strategy 
are decided at the regular information 
security meetings.Monthly evaluation
Results are evaluated based on 
occurrence, frequency, the degree 
of risk and the level of impact on 
operations. Plans for important projects 
and activities as well as performance 
indicators are included in personnel 
performance evaluation after approval 
by the President.Establishment of the 
yearly strategic action
Cybersecurity 
DepartmentDesignated
UnitCybersecurity RisksAs the largest integrated telecom service provider in the country, CHT will put its customers’ rights and the reputation of the 
overall communication industry in jeopardy if there is any information security accident or personal information leak. The 
Company will also face sanctions and financial losses.
With the external threats and the continuous technology updates of the hackers, our system and service might be influenced 
by the information security risk, including advanced persistent threat, phishing, the robbing of the clients’ information by the 
hackers, and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS), etc. Digital services such as electronic billing and multi-line payments are 
also at risk of cyber-attacks.
We comply with international standards such as ISO 27001 and BS 10012, and all relative 
laws and regulations. This helps us maintain a management system that includes excellent 
information security and personal information protection. We keep close contact with the 
external environment and watch for changes in government policies and laws, for new threats 
to information security, international standards, and developments in technology. We carry 
out the internal risk assessment that includes internal and external audit results, CHT SOC 
information security monitoring, as well as event processing. We also continue to improve 
internal abnormality detection and security methods to increase information and intelligence 
control. We enhance endpoint security and machine learning and technology and implement the 
necessary security control measures. Regular reviews are made of progress to decrease the risks 
to corporate security.Corresponding 
Strategies
“Cybersecurity Department,” created in 2016, directly implements, regulates, promotes, and audits information security. The 
head of Cyber Security reports to the SEVP , President and the BoD. The mechanism includes:
CHT carried out an extensive risk assessment in 
legal compliance with both the “Cyber Security 
Management Act” of the Executive Yuan and the EU 
“General Data Protection Regulation” (GDPR).  We 
report every threat and the corresponding measures 
taken and will continue to remain vigilant and follow-
up and assess all the risks to our system security.
A focus on new markets for CHT Security
Chunghwa Telecom is the leading company in the telecom 
industry in Asia. We have cultivated a professional service 
for information security and use our technological expertise 
to provide clients with a complete professional service. We 
keep an eye on business opportunities brought about by the 
recent flood of global information security issues. In 2017 
we established CHT Security, a new subsidiary that we hope 
will soon become international. A combination of brand, 
research, development and service will allow us to expand 
operations into new markets and take advantage of business 
opportunities overseas with the help of CHT client relations 
management. We also expect CHT Security to become the 
leading domestic information security brand. We intend to 
expand into international information security operation and 
will also promote the development of an extensive chain of 
domestic cybersecurity resources in the country.
“CHT Security” was established not only to lead the local development of 
information security, but also to defend digital security on a national scale. This 
helps the government to achieve a vision of “building a safe and trustworthy 
digital country.”The CHT Re-investment Subsidiary “CHT Security” To build self-confidence in team personnel and give personnel a better 
understanding (from a service point of view) of an information security service and 
selling, planning and equipment application, we arranged comprehensive training 
courses for AM/PM/PE.Building an Information Security Service, or a Product Planning and Equipment 
Application Technology TeamInformation security forums, training courses and seminars are arranged for 
all sizes of enterprise from large to small. Ten such training courses were held 
in 2017.Planning and Organizing the Education and Training Needed for an Information 
Security Project for the Government or Corporate ClientsTo implement a national cybersecurity strategy “cybersecurity is homeland 
security,” we not only support and encourage information security professionals, 
but also strive to achieve risk management security goals in advance to ensure a 
timely warning and monitoring of an event and a quick post-response.Establishment of a Complete Information Security MechanismOpportunities 
and ActionsCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation

The Creation of 
Sustainable Value
The Digital 
Economy 
Motivator
The Creative 
Industry
Pilot
50The Happiness 
Value
Protector
54The Green 
Corporation 
Pioneer
82The Social
Value
Guide
94In addition to the pursuit of operational value and the growth of profit, for the benefit of our stakeholders, we also allocate 
substantial resources for the creation of sustainable value. The approach to this is five-fold: capital investment, strategy 
formulation, action plan, regular follow-up and performance reviews. We take all the necessary steps to ensure that each 
investment input has a proper sustainability result. 
hTo ensure eligibility for licensing (eg, the 4G 
bands)
hProvides sufficient financial resources to support value creation 
hEffective execution of commercial activities
hGeneration and allocation of other forms ofcapital. Such as distribution of shareholder
equity, investments, and capital expenditurehContribution to the government in the
form of tax revenue
hSupports the development of networkinfrastructure
hImproves the quality of telecom services
 FinancialCapital Impact on Value CreationResource Allocated to
Sustain Value Creation
hTelecom knowledge and skills acquired by
employees
hHuman capital represents one of our majoroperational costshIntroduction of compensation andincentive schemes to attract and retain
talent
hEncourage high value-added services
and innovations
hTalent training and developmentprograms
Human
hLicensing, laboratory and R&D expenses,
and the acquisition and development of
industry technologies
hInvestment to maintain the brandhOngoing investment in R&D, and
construction and services. Maintaining
service quality and customer satisfaction
hInvestment in the R&D of new
technologies and the setting of new
protocols
Intellectual
hRegular contact with the relevant authorities
to ensure, ensure the conformance and
legitimacy of the operations and competition
hPositive feedback from consumers and the
general public helps build credibility of the
Chunghwa Telecom brand, and minimizesfinancial outlay.hEngage with stakeholders to better
understand their concerns and the
legitimacy of Company operations
hEngage in social activities to exert
influence through core activities to
minimize the digital divide
Social hAllocate financial capital to develop and
maintain infrastructure facilities
hOperation of Internet Data Center (IDC);installation of wireless facilities and
development of software and applicationshOngoing new construction, maintenance,
and operation of network equipment
hProcurement control and the acquisitionof more cost/energy efficient network
equipment
hConsolidation of idle space, the recycling
and disposal of obsolete equipment
Production
hNatural capital such as raw materials, and
energy sources are needed to allocate and
take advantage of human capital
hThe use of energy-saving processes
and solutions can effectively reduce the
consumption of natural capitalhPurchase products that are
environmentally friendly to reduce
consumption of those that strain naturalresources and raise energy efficiency
hUse carbon management to minimize
energy consumption and apply
renewable energy solutions to a greaterextent.
hFocus on the development of renewable
energy sources such as proprietary and
commissioned Photovoltaic systems
NaturalCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
SMART-I
The Digital
Economy MotivatorWe have established the “Digital Convergence 
Business” and an AI team, which is a core business 
unit that imports ISO research and development 
quality systems and capable and mature integration models, and also manages system research and 
development
MANAGEMENTMWe have enhanced the current core business, 
and actively developed and research new 
products. It will bring new revenue through better 
and more innovative ICT products and services
STRATEGYS
hWe have developed an IoT application
platform using our own innovative
technology
hFive previously separate pursuits have
now been combined. These are IoT, AI,
big data, AR/VR and self-driving cars.
hWe actively support the innovative
startups
ACTIONA
More details of innovation business cases 
on page 51
 RESPONSER
Short-term: 
The accumulation of R&D power and the launch of 
innovative products and services
Mid-long term:
hThe client amount of MOD total exceeds 2 million
hRelative revenue of IoT reaches NT$ 15 billion
hRelative revenue of AI exceeds NT$ 3 billionTARGETT
CHT has accumulated 1,839 patents
CHT’s investment in R&D is NT$ 39 billion
CHT has more than 1,400 R&D employees 
INDICATORIGRI
CHT
CHTThe SDGs CHT contributes to in this section

Forecasts show that in 2035 the revenue from 5G technology to companies in Taiwan will be NT$ 134 billion.. To gain an 
understanding of the potential business opportunities we have been monitoring five main aspects. We intend to help Taiwan 
keep up with the global trend through cross-field cooperation and assist in laying a firm foundation for Taiwan to participate in 
a promising global 5G economic environment.Leading the 5G Smart City
Innovative ICT Products and Services
We predict that 5G technology will urge the development of the IoT in the near future. Services of emerging new type such as AI, big data, drones, AR, VR, smart family and smart long-term care will bring about global economic growth. CHT is already 
actively investigating innovative products and applied ICT service development. We expect a substantial increase in the 
Company’s business power from expansion in the innovative field.
CHT leads in the development of an IoT application platform using innovative technology. Five main services have been 
combined, including Information Security, Big Data, the Cloud, AI and AR. There are now more than 500 medium to small companies using our platform. We have recruited a new talent force of 350 for the development of AI. There are 200 data 
scientists and 150 professionals engaged in AI research and six main AI application services have been developed:
AI face recognition
Face recognition
A face and voice combination recognition access
control system with image monitoring
CHT owns MOD, the biggest audio-visual platform in Taiwan which possesses a volume of 1.7 million users. In the field of 
client-oriented digital video convergence, we launched the MOD+OTT multiple screen service that integrates fixed network, data and mobile platform viewing.
Another core business unit, the “Digital Convergence Business,”  has also been established. This unit is responsible for the 
operation of the MOD/OTT video platform and digital convergence business such as the Smart Family. We have also combined the technology of IoT, Big Data, AR, VR, MR and AI to import business with the prospect of expansion. This will make CHT the 
first choice as a partner in Taiwan for the development of the “Smart City.”CHT’s 5G System
Item Content Result
Industry Circle IoT Circle800 corporations and individuals joined 
by 2017
Industry National TeamWe have joined up with 40 other companies, including MediaTek Inc., Quanta Computer Inc., ASUS, HTC and SERCOMM to form the “Taiwan 
5G Industry Development Alliance.” CHT has become a leader in several innovative applications including AI, IoT 
and self-driving cars
A big data traffic condition forecast and warning system
AI technology internet threat prediction
An AI human machine gesture interface that uses
intelligent glassesThe CHT Innovative ICT Products and Services Targets in 3 to 5 Years
2020
Relative revenue of IoT will 
reach 
NT$ 15 billion2020
Relative revenue of AI will 
exceed 
NT$ 3 billion2018Target 1 Target 2 Target 3
Client volume on the MOD 
movie platform will 
exceed 2 millionCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories (CHT-TL) is a designated R&D institute that 
has been established for research into new innovative services, core technology, 
and visionary applications. The Institute strives to explore convenient and 
useful services from the consumers’ perspective. Solutions are formulated through intricate coordination, the purpose is to find ways to “simplify tasks for 
consumers” and let Chunghwa Telecom deal with the complexity.Innovative R&D Center Ñ
Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories
Overview of Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories in 2017
hThere are more than 1,461 employees (nearly 6.50% of total
employees in CHT), and 95% are R&D personnel.
hThe funding for R&D funds totaled NT$ 3.9 billion, which was1.7% of the consolidated operating revenue.
hThe laboratories secured 190 new product/technical patents(167 domestic and 23 overseas) to a total of 1,839 (1,673
domestic and 166 overseas). 1,059 of the patents arecurrently in force (967 domestic and 92 overseas).The core business market of the telecom industry (fixed network, mobile service and voice service) has gradually reached saturation. This will have an impact on 
revenue in the mid-long term. There might be a reduction in revenue from voice 
services, overly high costs for basic telecom construction, or influence of the OTT suppliers. We predict that the overall output value of the telecom industry will 
continue to decline until 2020.
Our innovative strategies to cope with this situation include enhancing the current 
core business, active research into new product development, and more revenue 
from new and innovative ICT products and services.
MasterDoctor
Bachelor
Others962
65.85%94
6.43%
23
1.58%
27
1.85%Male
300
20.53%7
0.48%
1.16%17
2.12%31FemaleThe Telecommunication Laboratories 
Human Resources StructureThe Creative
Industry Pilot
The SDGs CHT contributes to in this section

Environmental Innovation 
Sponsoring the NASA Hackathon ÑSaving the Earth with Innovation
Chunghwa Telecom was the only sponsor of the 2017 “NASA Hackathon” in the telecom industry. We resourced an 
excellent broadband circuit, fiber-optic network, firewall and other information and communication software and hardware 
equipment, as well as all the necessary labor. We also provided the space, the NTU Sports Center, and used the safest 
and fastest Internet devices available to give the hackers a smooth, comfortable and uninterrupted Internet environment. The event went very well and many innovative technological applications were developed.
“NASA Hackathon” is an international 48-hour long hack 
marathon that is held simultaneously worldwide. There were 
161 groups taking part in the 2017 Hackathon including one in Taiwan. NASA uses its resources and advantages in space 
development to collect high-quality global data. Hackers have 
access to these databases and put their heads together to find creative ways to manage water resources, respond to natural 
disasters, and many of the other challenges our planet is facing 
that can be addressed by IT applications in some way. CHT continues to use our excellent technological services to inspire 
the younger generation and make Taiwan more competitive in 
the information and communication industry.
Social Innovation
iEN Water Resource Management 
CHT launched the iEN intelligent environmental service in 2008. We provide corporate clients with energy management 
technology that helps to reduce operational cost. In 2017, the iEN service embarked on water resource management to 
provide a full-scale water resource solution through information security and IoT technology.
Improved irrigation and water conservation management technology: An intelligent
decision-making system on the cloud, along with environmental monitoring equipment,
calculates and delivers the precise amount of water needed for the irrigation of crops toeffectively improve the efficiency of irrigation water conservation.
Smart operation and management technology at the Mudan Reservoir: The reservoir
monitoring system continuously collects information about the climate, water quality, the
valve settings, embankment and slope. The system also provides suggestions about waterdischarge based on rainfall over the catchment area and the reservoir water level. Stabilityof the water supply has increased and this allows much better management of resources.The system can be effectively used for three applications, the use of stored water, flood
control and reservoir safety.
Cloud Security and the Protection of Intellectual Property 
Counterfeits such as fake cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, tea and even soft drinks are all over the market. To prevent 
counterfeiting and the infringement of company property rights, we developed the “CHT Security Cloud” that provides 
a more complete security mechanism for the management layout of corporations. It not only secures brand value for a 
corporation but also effectively protects the rights of customers worldwide.
Up to 90% of the “CHT Security Cloud” users operate overseas. To provide a more effective security mechanism for 
overseas operation, “CHT Security Cloud” applies global channel management. The application also provides a multiple 
language interface that includes Traditional and Simplified Chinese, English and Japanese. This allows to act rapidly in cases of infringement and the appearance of counterfeit products and continue to focus attention on product research 
and development and other normal operations.
CHT Security Cloud: http://wetrusty.twgate.net/Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
From Creation and Innovation to Startups
CHT has always encouraged creativity and innovation. Employees are encouraged to break new ground and turn their R&D 
creativity into real value, to drive industrial output and bring revenue to the Company. In 2017, we adopted a strategy of internal 
and external cooperation to encourage and promote new startups in the ICT industry in Taiwan. 
Supporting Startups 1 ÑLaunching the “hi-accelerator project”
CHT and the Institute for the Information Industry signed the “hi-accelerator project” MOU in 2017, and together began to 
cultivate innovative talent in the digital industry. The CHT cloud and the resources of the IoT applied platform combined 
with the innovation incubation power of the Institute for Information Industry accelerate the development of startups with 
innovative products, or services with good business value, further promoting the development of new innovative industry in the country.
Supporting Startups 2 ÑEstablishing a Venture Capital Fund with PChome
To support the development of early innovative startups in Taiwan and to incubate the “unicorn companies,” the Strategic 
Committee of the BoD approved the establishment of an NT$ 400 million venture capital fund “CHT/PChome 1” with 
PChome Online Inc. The professional fields and resources of both parties are channeled towards investment and 
incubation and the fund supports Taiwan startups that create value and have their own core technologies.
Supporting Startups 3 ÑCHT “Firefly Project”
CHT and the Small and Medium Enterprise Credit Guarantee Fund of Taiwan cooperated in the launch of the “Firefly 
Project Credit Guarantee” in December 2017. The “Firefly Project (counter guarantee for enterprise),” was also expanded 
by a donation of NT$ 50 million from CHT. The credit guarantee can allocate equal value and provide guarantees of up to 
20 times the financing amount (NT$ 2 billion) to support startup teams.
This initiative also encouraged project organization in the Bank of Taiwan, the Hua Nan Commercial Bank, the First 
Commercial Bank, the Taiwan Cooperative Bank, and the Taiwan Business Bank. There were 20 applications for financial 
support by the end of 2017 and financing amounted to NT$ 278 million.hWe provide an annual budget for creative teams of employees with a
maximum of NT$ 100 million for each case. This helps creativity and
supports the set-up of new companies.
hThe regulations for setting up companies for internal employees
was amended to include an innovation incubation incentive with a
maximum of 30-months salary.Innovation Incubation Team
Innovation incubation 
incentive provided for 
employeesInternal 
Ventureh“CHT/PChome 1” venture capital was started with an initial capital of
NT$ 400 million.
hWe donated NT$ 50 million to promote the “Fireflies Project”(creditguarantee project)
hWe bought into the Taishan Capital Venture Fund, to become thebiggest civil shareholder. We link startups to Silicon Valley by indirect
investment.
hWe send employees to Silicon Valley for on-site service, which
expands the links with startups overseaExternal 
Investment
A venture capital fund 
was established
We support and finance 
startups
We arrange overseas 
links for startups
2017 Result
The MOD Micro Movie Contest 
The Hami Software Development ContestCHT has cultivated the film and television industry for a long 
time. To support original digital content and foster excellent talents in Taiwan’s film industry, we held the “MOD Micro Movie and Gold Film Creation Contest” with awards to a total of NT$ 4.3 million in 2017 and received 324 entries, with 30 used 4K resolution to film. To give these short movies proper chance, we stream them on the MOD platform with HD high resolution, and provide them movies-in-theaters scale media exposure. We also held the first “Film Festival of Awarded Pieces in the MOD Micro Movie and Gold Film Creation Contest.” The participating teams were able to exchange ideas and learn the latest trends in the audio-visual industry. 
We think the innovative technology and the younger generation need to be closely tied together, 
hence the “2017 Hami Software Development Contest” was held. Many innovative software development teams were attracted to the contest and there were about 200 entries. The participants combined shared economy, IoT, 3D technology, AR and other approaches to develop creative applications. We provided these teams and suppliers with the opportunities and platform to implement creation and access to the market.
The champion  in the Innovative  division  of the 2017  Hami  Contest 
developed the “USPACE Partner” application. This app uses the concept 
of shared vehicle parking from an economic viewpoint. Personal parking 
spaces can be shared and the application intelligent ground lock makes 
the parking space available for use by others when it is vacant. This can 
go some way to help with the shortage of parking space in cities.
The “USPACE Partner” App was used in a demonstration at a shopping 
area on the Nanjing East Road under the auspices of the Mayor of 
Taipei City, Wen-Je Ko. The concept of shared parking space was 
also 
approved and promoted by several government and city 
departments. Everything needed to use the application was available 
on Google Play, and the downloads performed well. We may witness the 
creation of more world-class Apps through our contests in the future.
Innovative Research and Development Result in 2017
Award Granting Unit Award
IEEE Advanced 
Communication TechnologyThe Convergence Services Lab received the “Extraordinary Paper Award” of the IEEE Advanced 
Communication Technology Forum
European Innovation 
PartnershipsThe Business Solutions Lab and the IoT Lab received the “Best Paper Award” from the EAI IoTaaS 2017 Conference 
Ministry of Economic AffairsThe Wireless Communications, Broadband Networks, Network Management, Information & Communication Security, Convergence Services, Business Solutions, IoT, and the Big Data laboratories received three gold, seven silver and one bronze award at the 2017 Taiwan Innotech Expo held by the Ministry of Economic Affairs
The Chinese Institute of 
Electrical Engineering
The Managing Director of the IoT Lab, Wen-Sheng Hsieh received the “Distinguished Engineer Award” 
and researcher Yan-Zhong Chen , the “Excellent Young Engineer Award,” of the Chinese Institute of 
Electrical Engineering 
Committee of the Information 
Technology MonthThe Broadband Networks, Convergence Services and the IoT Laboratories received the “Innovative Products 
Award” from Information Technology Month, for research and development
Intelligent Transportation 
Society of TAIWANThe “Usage Based Insurance Analysis System-Driving Insight” of the IoT Lab, received the “ITS Taiwan Award”
Bureau of Standards, 
Metrology and InspectionThe “Satellite 2-Way Transmission Software Viterbi Decoder Technology” of the Wireless Communications Lab was adopted by the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures for Coordinated Universal Time re-identification Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
The Happiness
Value Protector
The SDGs CHT contributes to in this sectionSMART-I
hEnsures all employees sign a formal “Employment
Agreement,” duly observe the Labor Standards
Act and other applicable laws, and calls for labor-management meetings at regular intervals
hAccreditation of the SGS Qualicert service
certification
hAdvocation of refined service supervision
hComprehensive and robust personnelmanagement
MANAGEMENTMhChunghwa Telecom is committed to providing employees
with “assurance,” including their work rights and freedom
of association. The Company takes the initiative to care forthe needs of employees, and implements communication
channels to facilitate the exchange of opinions between the
employer and employees.
hProvide consumers with virtually and physically diverse,
multilateral and high-quality service channels
STRATEGYS
hThe Company has a specialized training
facility-“Telecommunication Training
Institute” and an Occupational Safety andHealth Department in place
hTransparent and diverse means of
communications and grievances
hI n v e s t e d  r e s o u r c e s  i n  d i g i t a ltransformation and established the first
telecom combinative store in Taiwan
hEstablished the system of self-inspection,
audit, and supervision for service quality
hLaunch the personal informationmanagement and auditor certification
system
ACTIONA
hThe only carrier with an
established union in Taiwan
hAlleviate Public Concerns overElectromagnetic Waves
 RESPONSER
hFosters talents and allows all employees to share
the results of the operations
hMake personalized high-quality products andservices available to all our customers TARGETT
INDICATORI
Basic salary offered by Chunghwa Telecom is 1.4 times 
the minimum wage in Taiwan.
Per Capita Training Hours: 43 hours
No violation  of GRI laws concerning personal 
information, health, safety or product labelingGRI
GRI
GRI

Ensuring Employees’ Happiness 
Chunghwa Telecom treats employees as their most important business partners. To ensure the best protection for the 
work rights of the employees, Chunghwa Telecom signs an “Employment Contract” with each individual employees and 
undertakes to notify them of any changes in terms of employment in compliance with the Labor Standards Act. Furthermore, 
CHT uses several different channels, including seminars and labor-management meetings, to maintain harmony and a mutually beneficial working relationship with employees.
We have a “Compensation Committee” in place to ensure that compensation for the best talent is competitive. In addition, 
the Company has a transparent system for sharing business performance with its employees. Compensation for executive 
management has been standardized and details are disclosed publicly in the annual reports. The Company offers equal compensation for all entry-level employees of the same grade. Those who possess relevant skills and work experience 
may have compensation evaluated based on educational background, career experience, expertise, and professional 
qualifications. Under no circumstances will compensation ever be determined by gender or racial differences Protecting the Rights of the Employees
Base Salary
in Taiwan
NT$ 21,009
Average Salary 
in the Telecom Industry
NT$ 62,712Base Salary
of CHT
NT$ 29,330
The Top 
Salary
5.15jThe Median 
Salary
1
Average Salary at CHT
NT$ 71,000
A Competitive Compensation SystemCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
CHT has more than 22 thousand employees with an average age of more than 51-year-old. There will be more than 5 
thousand employees retiring over the next 5 years, and 50% of the employees will be eligible for retirement over the next 10 
years. Current senior management is included in this retirement tide. To cope with this problem CHT is actively cultivating 
new talents to ensure that knowledge is passed down to foster the talents of a new generation.
We not only face competition from the telecom industry, but also from an ever-changing information and communications 
industry. Future recruitment will be on a large-scale and will involve public recruiting exams. We will also use external 
recruiting methods aligned with each professional field. CHT talent will become an important growth power that will rise to a 
new level.
2017 Total Employees people 22,460135
0.5%608
3%Under 30 Years Old6,385
28.5%16,075
71.5%Total Amount in
Each Category
5,230
23% 12%2,67330~50 Years Old
10,237
45.5% 16%3,577 Above 50 Years OldMale Female
Entry-level 
Employee
<30
30~50
>50
%0
0
36
0.2200
3
0.05
Executive
<30
30~50
>50
%0
1
34
0.2202
8
0.15
Senior Executive 
and Higher
<30
30~50
>50
%608
5,033
8,275
86.57135
2,606
3,227
93.47
Intermediate 
Executive
<30
30~50
>50
%0
196
1,892
12.990
65
339
6.33Human Resources Structure at CHT 
Note: 1. All employees are full-time; all employees are Taiwanese.
2.For all grades, basic salary is defined as the fixed salary (monthly) .
3.For all grades, average salary includes fixed salaries and variable portions (including the monthly salary, year-end
bonus, performance bonus, etc.)
4. Levels of all grades: Basic-00~10; Executive-11~16; Intermediate Executive-17; Senior Executive-18~22.Base Salary RatioAverage Salary Ratio0.87 :  1
0.86 :  1
Base Salary RatioAverage Salary Ratio1.05 :  1
1.05 :  1Base Salary RatioAverage Salary Ratio1.02 :  1
1.03 :  1Base Salary RatioAverage Salary Ratio1.18 :  1
1.33 :  1
Note: New recruits rate = Number of new employees/total number of employees
Note: Turn rate = Number of turnover employees/total number of employeesNew Recruitment
Composition Male Female
Under 30 Years Old  
30~50 Years Old  
Above 50 Years Old  
Total Employees  
Disabled Employees  
Aboriginal Employees  
Note: All employees are full-time; all employees are Taiwanese.Human Resource Structure 
of Honghwa Subsidiary in 2017
New Recruitments
Amount
Accounted for 3.06%
of total employees
Resignation Amount ofNew Recruits
Accounted for 0.73% of 
all New Recruitment<30
567
82.53%
120
17.47%persons
persons30~50
>5040.03%275 persons
58.66%403 persons
1.31%9persons
A total of 43 persons16 persons 27 persons
Aboriginal Employee
A total of 668  persons232 persons 436 persons
Specialist
(Fixed-term contracts)1 person 0 person
687
persons
Employee 
Turnover
Ratio 4.2%951 persons5
personsage
<30
1.79%persons
30~50
3.89%persons
>50
72.55%17
37
690 personsage
<30
0.32%persons
30~50
2.94%persons
>50
18.51%3
28
176 personsageCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Disabled EmployeeChunghwa Telecom places great value on human rights and gender equality. In 2017, female staff accounted for 28.43% of 
the total, and 25.86% of the managers were women. To conform to the essence of the “gender equality” in the Employment 
Act, the Company has outlined its sexual harassment prevention policy and established a “Complaint Investigation 
Committee” that specializes in the handling of employee complaints about work-related discrimination and improper behavior. The investigation committee has five members, three of whom are female. Our effective control has resulted in no 
incident of discrimination being reported in 2017.
CHT has done more than complying with the quota required by Article 38 of the Persons with Disabilities Rights Protection 
Act and have hired more than the required number. In 2017, the number of persons with disabilities hired was 3.71 times more than the statutory quota. (quota: 212; actual hire: 787). Where a department or institution employs a seriously disabled 
person in accordance with the act, the disabled person shall be calculated as two. We had 45 aboriginal employees on 
board in 2017. We fully respect their cultures and no violation of work or human rights was reported during the year.
Chunghwa Telecom is the only telecom carrier in Taiwan 
with an established union. We have signed a collective 
bargaining agreement with them which covers an extensive range of issues from redundancy, reward, 
discipline, promotion, to health and safety. This initiative 
not only complies with local laws and international human rights conventions, but is also a show of our commitment 
to the protection of employee interests. In addition to the 
union established by Chunghwa Telecom, employees have also assembled 11 other unions under the organization. 
In 2017, 99.86% of employees were union members. 
A director’s seat has also been reserved for a workers’ representative, through whom workers can more freely 
express opinions.
We have open communication channels in place to ensure that employee needs or suggestions are heard. Any violation 
or misconduct in the workplace can be reported to the relevant department using the channels provided. There were 47 
complaints in 2017. Of these, 45 were disciplinary investigations and included such behavior as disrespect of the CHT 
system, principles, administrative management, violation of the employee code of conduct or other misconduct, and two were leak investigations. There were no human rights related cases in 2017.
We hold regular labor-management meetings to maintain contact between employees and the employer. There are nine 
representatives from each side, employer and employees. The chair is held by each side in turn. The Chairman and President of Chunghwa Telecom engage regularly with the  Chairman of the Union, Directors, and Supervisors in meetings, in person 
and by telephone. The Chairman of the Chunghwa Telecom Workers Union is entitled to participate in disciplinary review 
meetings, performance appraisals, and business report meetings to ensure that workers are kept up to date on Company news. In 2017, the Company held six nationwide labor-management meetings and one extraordinary meeting during which 
employees and the employer were able to reach consensus on many issues. Meetings for the discussion of particular 
matters can be convened, or if any change to work conditions is necessary. Eight such meetings were held in 2017.
The Employee Grievance Channels
hCHT intranet portal: http://eip.cht.com.tw
hAccountable Department: Human Resource Division, Head Office
(Room 503, No. 21-3, Section 1, Xinyi Road, Taipei City 100)
hHotline: 0800-080998
hFax: (02) 2357-0007
hEmail: chthr@cht.com.tw
Gender Equality and Diversity
The Only Taiwanese Carrier with an Established Union
Open Communication and Complaint ChannelsNote: Chunghwa Telecom complies with Article 16 of the group agreement about transfers. If there is a need to transfer a union 
member due to changes in the organization such as establishment, alteration, merger, and/or closure of a department, 
the Company will do so only if necessary and will respect the wishes of the member. In addition, all transfers must 
comply with the “Five Principles” of the Labor Standards Act.
Focusing on Employee Training and Development
Our fundamental business focus is “core competitiveness, 
professionalism, efficiency, and service” and we seek to 
develop innovative talent through a combination of internal 
and external training.
We have a comprehensive training system to assist 
employee development in all dimensions. The system 
starts with the incorporation of “needs analysis” and 
“in-depth planning” and is followed by performance assessment and review after the program ends. This 
systematic approach enhances professional skill and 
work efficiency, and helps the Company improve its coordination of human resources.
Human Resource Development Strategies
The Chunghwa Telecom Telecommunication Training Institute has devised human resource development strategies 
based on business focus and talent requirements between 2016 and 2018.
Digital Classroom
Chunghwa Telecom has introduced an online learning social network (the Digital Classroom) with an e-Learning 
approach quite unlike that of conventional classroom teaching. In this new learning social network one-way teaching 
has been replaced by an environment where users may share and transfer knowledge at a lower cost, and with a far better yield of good results. The broadband installation college, for example, is a platform where information such as 
technical documents, cases, video tutorials, and technical discussions can be exchanged and learned.
Online Broadcast
Online broadcasts can be used to teach topics related to specific work. They are delivered over the internal UC 
platform, and offer employees a fast and convenient way to gain knowledge and observe new trends. Online 
broadcasts transmit the experiences of experts to all employees without limit and boost business growth. The topics 
in 2017 included core business, ICT extended business, business in the new field and new knowledge of management 
and health care. There were 175 classes with 14,665 participants.
Results
hInformation security certification
In 2017, 40 employees received EC-CHFI certification, 30 received EC-ECSA certification, and 28 received ISO
27001:2013 surveyor certification.
hImproved sales performance
AM enterprise customer training and certification resulted in a revenue increase of 13.76%.
hEnhanced professional skillsEmployees who completed the 4G Network Quality Improvement Talent Program showed a 15% average capacity
improvement.
hNew business potentials
-The Company organized 17 professional skills for intelligent building courses to reinforce our service
competitiveness in smart buildings; there were 526 enrollments.
The Company organized 17 courses for the training of facilitators, promoters, planners, designers, and maintenance
workers for photovoltaic technology; there were 509 enrollments.
#NKIPOGPVQHVTCKPKPICPF
DWUKPGUUFGXGNQROGPV#NKIPOGPVQHVTCKPKPI
VCTIGVUCPFEQWTUGU
/QDKNK\CVKQPQHFKIKVCNNGCTPKPI )QXGTPOGPVKPFWUVT[
WPKXGTUKV[KPUVKVWVGRNCVHQTO+PPQXCVKQPCPF$GPGƈVUCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Chunghwa Telecom has founded a “Telecommunication Training Institute” that specializes in training technical as well as 
managerial talent in the telecom field to gain more core competitive advantages. A “Talent Development Team” has also 
been established, with the President as convener, to conduct regular reviews of the planning and outcome of Company 
training effort. This is important to ensure that the training outcome is closely aligned with the operational policy to achieve a “seamless combination of training and practice.”
To meet the needs of the organization, and the personal interest and even the personality traits of employees, the 
Telecommunication Training Institute provides a diversity of learning channels. These help employees develop new in-depth 
professional ability as well as a renewal of their management skills to bring about growth and proper career development. Employees can attend training at the Telecommunication Training Institute during regular hours, in the evening or on 
holidays. The institute can also dispatch tutors to relevant business units for organized training sessions. The institute offers 
eight learning channels: class teaching, distance education, digital learning, direct-broadcast courses, the Digital College, tutoring, external programs, and the digital library.
Orientation provides new recruits with a general understanding of Company vision, values and culture that helps them adapt 
to the new work environment and culture. “New Recruit Counseling Guidelines for Chunghwa Telecom and Subordinate 
Institutions” were introduced in 2014 as well as a counselor system and digital learning tools to reduce the steepness of the new employee learning curve.
Chunghwa Telecom now applies “Employees Performance Evaluation Guidelines” which are used in the evaluation of 
employee performance to develop the corporate culture where employees, customers, shareholders, and the Company will all be winners. Supervision will be provided for underperforming employees who will be guided until the appropriate 
improvement has been made and they are back on track.
Chunghwa Telecom conducts performance appraisal at three different levels: entry-level staff, entry and mid-level managers, 
and senior managers. Performance appraisal involves a series of face-to-face discussions between employees and line managers at the beginning of a year to set personal goals, and also at mid-year and years end to evaluate the degree of 
employee contribution to Company performance. During these sessions, managers also discuss career plans and suggest 
courses that are relevant to the future career of each employee. Performance bonuses and employee remuneration are tied to performance.
Recruitment and Development of the New-Generation Talents
According to an internal manpower survey, Chunghwa Telecom will encounter a wave of senior management 
retirements in five years. The following measures have been developed as a response to reduce disruption in the 
transfer of knowledge:
hHonghwa will be engaged where necessary to fill in shortfalls of frontline staff.
hWe will recruit additional talent for the R&D of IT, ICT and 4G technologies and support business growth. Recruitment
needs will be approved on a case-by-case basis.
hThe nurturing of the next-generation talent: The Company introduces new talent-training programs on a yearly basis.It provides employees with professional and diverse training options, and certifies the development of skill.
hEmerging businesses: new ICT technologies are being infused with knowledge from other fields. The Company willfocus on training professionals who can adapt and apply their knowledge across several different fields of expertise
such as cloud computing, big data, and product packaging, to actual practices.Dedicated Training Units
Diverse Learning Channels
New Employee Orientation
Fair Assessment Mechanism
Chunghwa Telecom is dedicated to providing employees with a diverse learning environment. In 2017, Chunghwa Telecom 
training expenses exceeded NT$ 500 million and employee training sessions totaled 974 thousand hours. We encourage 
employees to commit themselves to long-term learning and we offer education subsidies as much as NT$ 30,000 per 
semester. Subsidies were given to 440 employees in 2017 and the Company compensation amounted to NT$ 7.01 million.
Since 2011, we have been engaging outside agencies to carry out annual “Chunghwa Telecom Happiness at Work Survey” 
in an anonymous manner. This helps us to understand how employees feel about their work and working status. The 
findings are used as a reference for the improvement of management. The survey topics include individual opinions about 
the working environment, welfare and corporate transformation. By listening to the opinions of the employee, we get to 
understand their feelings and expectations. We will continue these surveys and respond to employee opinions. The 2017 
“Happiness at Work Survey” graded at an average of 80.56 points out of 100.2015 2016 2017
Total Training Expense (NT$ thousand) 572,351 529,744 514,082
Per Capita Training (NT$) 24,733 23,384 22,889
Total Training Hours 1,078,140 1,046,253 974,712
Per Capita Training Hours 47 46 43
Nurturing of Professional Talents
The Happiness at Work SurveyNote: A precision training policy was adopted in 2015 and instruction was carried out by internal personnel in many instances. 
As a result, the budgeted training expenses went down while the number of total and average training hours was the 
same as in 2014.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Health and Safety Management
Chunghwa Telecom was the first telecom service provider in Taiwan to adopt the OHSAS 18000 Occupational Health 
and Safety Management System. By the end of 2017, 27 Company business groups and branches had already passed 
international certification. We use careful systematic management to ensure the health and safety of our employees. In 
addition to identifying hazards and assessing the risks associated with telecom operations, the Company has also applied 
restrictions and enhanced risk control for high-risk tasks, while taking effective precautions to reduce occupational hazards. 
In addition to complying with safety and health regulations, the Company has also been active in the improvement of the 
current work environment and takes regular action with regard to safety and health facilities and measures.
We take part in all government initiatives and actively promote a healthy workplace. Nine divisions within the Company have 
received awards under the “National Workplace Safety and Health Campaign” organized by the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration, Ministry of Labor. The Taipei Mobile Business Group location received the “Health Model Award” from 
the Ministry of Health and Welfare.
We have a dedicated “Labor Safety and Health Department” responsible for the planning and implementation of labor safety 
and health matters. A “Labor Safety and Health Committee” has also been created that meets every quarter to deliberate, 
coordinate and make suggestions on labor safety and health issues.
The “Labor Safety and Health Committee” has 27 members, including representatives from each department unit and the 
labor union as well as several technicians and medical personnel. Among these, ten members are from the labor union, 
accounting for 37%. Four meetings were held in 2017 and eleven proposals were presented by the labor representatives. 
Four of these were related to the improvement of safety and health facilities, five to the refinement of safety and health 
management, and two concerned food hygiene. All proposals have been solved after deliberation.The Dedicated Occupational Safety and Health Management Unit
(QNNQYVJG5CHGV[CPF*GCNVJ4GIWNCVKQPUCPF
'PHQTEG5GNH/CPCIGOGPV
+ORNGOGPV*C\CTF+FGPVKƈECVKQPCPF'PHQTEG
4KUM%QPVTQN
5VTGPIVJGPDQVJ/GPVCNCPF2J[UKECN*GCNVJ
5GTXKEGU
'PEQWTCIG2CTVKEKRCVKQPVJTQWIJ1RGP
%QOOWPKECVKQPCPF%QPUWNVCVKQP
%QPVKPWGVJG+ORTQXGOGPVQH'SWKROGPVCPF
%TGCVGC3WCNKV[9QTM2NCEG
%QPFWEV5CHGV[6TCKPKPI2TQITCOUVQ4CKUG
5CHGV[#YCTGPGUU
To better provide immediate medical assistance and attend 
to worker health, we engaged 20 full-time nurses and 
contracted 22 physicians in 2017 for this specific purpose. 
They were assigned to locations at Xinyi, Aiguo, the Da’an Industrial Park, New Taipei City, Taoyuan, Hsinchu, Miaoli, 
Central Taiwan, Chiayi, Tainan, Kaohsiung and Pingtung.
The Company has deployed six i-med Systems at local 
customer centers for employees involved in high-risk 
activities. Blood pressure is measured and employees 
are given careful health checks before they engage in any high-risk work. This reduces the risk of accidents in high-
risk situations.Full-Time Physicians and Nurses to Improve Employee’s Health Management
Health Promotions for Senior Employees
A significant portion of Chunghwa Telecom employees are 50 years old or 
older. This is one reason why we consider health care an important issue, 
especially for senior employees. In 2017, we launched a series of health 
checkups and health management programs for senior employees. In addition to helping them develop physical capabilities, it was also part of our intention 
to create support systems among friends.
Health checkups: The Company provided checkup services
specifically targeted at senior employees, including carotid duplex and
echocardiography for the risk of ischemic stroke, coronary artery narrowingand incomplete heart valve closure, as well as fundus photography forchecking macular degeneration, retinal vessels and glaucoma.
Health seminars: We invited a dietitian from the Taiwan Adventist Hospital
to talk about “eating for good eyesight” to let the employees learn how
to choose the right food and supplements for maintaining good eyesight.We also invited the instructor from the health and exercise associationto demonstrate muscle strength and stretching exercises in the office,emphasizing the importance of health plans toward the maintenance of
body function.
Others: As a countermeasure to influenza outbreaks, Chunghwa Telecom
subsidized influenza vaccinations for 1,745 employees.
National Fitness Program
The Sports Administration of the Ministry of Education, commissioned 
Shung Ho Hospital to organize a National Fitness Program in 2017, and 149 
employees from headquarters signed up to learn more about fitness. The 
program included many tests such as body measurements (height, weight, waist-hip ratio); muscle strength and endurance (sit-ups in a minute), flexibility 
(forward flexion) and cardio-respiratory fitness (stair-climbing over 3 minutes) 
designed to help employees learn more about their health and absorb new knowledge about sports. 
Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
The Chunghwa Telecom “Work Accident Guidelines” contain detailed procedures for assessing occupational illness. 
Employees suspected of having become ill as a result of their occupation are assisted with an application for verification 
at the local municipal/county/city authority in accordance with the “Protecting Workers from Occupational Accidents Act.” 
We manage risks at the source, by making sure that construction risks are under control from the early design stages of a 
project. The line construction management system has been amended with respect to highlighting high-risk operations as 
well as risk assessment information to ensure operators are able to identify potential risk in advance.
All high-risk operations are subject to approval by the ICT. Workers are also required to take site pictures with handheld 
devices and upload them to the monitoring system so that precautionary measures can be identified and taken to prevent 
such accidents as falls, oxygen deprivation, etc. To promote employee awareness and safety and health skills, we organized 
138 training sessions in 2017 and there were 6,257 enrollments.
The Company encountered 49 cases of occupational hazard in 2017; 31 of which had occurred during work (including 20 
traffic accidents) 18 accidents occurred during commuting. The top three accidents were a work-related injury, a traffic 
accident while commuting, and a fall. To raise employee awareness of traffic safety and reduce the occurrence of traffic 
accidents, we organized the “Prevention and Handling of Traffic Accident” training. The instruction was given by members of 
the New Taipei City Traffic Accident Investigation Committee. Employees are constantly being reminded, at the Occupational 
Safety and Health Committee meetings, work safety meetings and training sessions to exercise greater attention to personal 
safety and safe driving. 
2015 2016 2017
Injury Rate 
(IR)0.07 0.11 0.09 0.17 0.12 0.16
0.08 0.11 0.13
Occupational Disease Rate
(ODR)00 00 00
0 0 0
Lost Day Rate
(LDR)2.68 2.47 3.79 7.12 40.41 3.31
2.62 4.74 29.86
Absentee Rate
(AR) 0.28 0.59 0.31 0.66 0.30 0.70
0.37 0.41 0.415PUBMMale
'FNBMFReducing Occupational Hazards
Note: Injury Rate (IR) = (Total number of injuries/Number of hours worked by all employees) x 200,000; Occupational Disease Rate 
(ODR) = (Number of occupational diseases/Total work hours) x 200,000
Lost Day Rate (LDR) = Total loss of work days/Total work hours) x 200,000; 
Absentee Rate (AR) (Including personal and sick leave) = (Total number of absent days/Total number of man-days) x 100%
Chunghwa Telecom considers its employees’ health to be a valuable company asset. Providing a safe and healthy workplace 
is a basic requirement of good corporate social responsibility. In 2017, we spent NT$ 82,245 thousand on employee health 
care. Our contributions related to employee health included:A Safe and Healthy Workplace
Item Description
Health Examination of 
Employees and DependentshThe Company offers much better care than required by law and employees are given
the choice of various health checkup packages depending on their age, risk factors
and so on. A total of 21,870 (99.14%) employees had checkups during the year.
hFamily members are also entitled to checkups at the same rate, and a total of 3,292
persons participated during the year.
Free Influenza VaccinationhFree influenza vaccinations are available for all employees who fit the requirements for
vaccination at public expense. Registration can be done online and 1,745 employees
were vaccinated.
Employee Assistance 
Program (EAP)hCHT was one of the largest corporations in Taiwan to start promoting the EmployeeAssistance Program (EAP) since 2007.
hThe EAP carries out 5 consultation sessions each year , in which outside experts are
contracted to help employees resolve their legal, medical, family, workplace, and
stress problems.
hCase managers made 9  visits and completed 454 service sessions in 2017.
Employee Health ServicehPhysicians visited the plants 35 times a month. Sessions were for  3 hours and each
patient was allocated 30 minutes.
hHealthcare personnel use the “Employee Health Management System” for
the analysis and for the evaluation of health records. Where necessary, extra
consultations can be arranged between the physicians and the employees for properguidance and healthcare. Related expenses amounted to NT$ 15.15 million.
Headcount of medical 
consultation with 
physicians 
2,491
(30 minutes/per person)Frequency of
on-site physician
service
383
personsHeadcount
of consultation with 
medical personnel
7,412
persons
Employee Health PromotionhA total of 7,983 employees participated in 124 health seminars. There were 34 sports
competitions in which  6,047  employees participated. There were 73 educational trips
attended by 8,175 employees. Health examinations were given to 2,178 employees in
15 sessions and 18,518 employees participated in 311 big group events.
hThe Company published 2 health-related articles each month that contained
comprehensive information about the concept of disease prevention.
Healthy WorkplacehThe noise level, lighting, temperature, humidity and air quality of our offices is tested
regularly. The offices are also cleaned and maintained on a regular basis to ensure
workers have a comfortable working environment.
hFurthermore, all offices feature ergonomic chairs, natural ventilation, indoor plants
and other elements of a healthy work environment.
Employee CafeteriahOur employee cafeteria offers choices from a diverse range of nutritionally balancedmeals to choose from.
hAll food suppliers are subjected to rigorous review to ensure the safety of food servedto our employees.
Balancing Work and LifehChunghwa Telecom has 31 hostels in T aiwan. An annual travel subsidy of NT$ 8,000
encourages employees to achieve a balance between work and life.
Flexible Working HourshChunghwa Telecom provides two flexible working hour sessions in the morning andafternoon: 8:00 to 9:00 and 17:00 to 18:00. There are also several places of different
types for group events after working hours.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Building a Happy Business
CHT has long been devoting considerable resources, including human resources, to the promotion of awareness to the 
need for physical exercises at the workplace and to support of the sports industry. Utilizing both software and hardware 
resources, we have created an excellent environment for exercise, and the building of a healthy, happy and safe corporation. 
CHT was awarded the 2nd “2017 Exercise Enterprise Certification.”
We offer a commitment to “peace of mind” to our employees, and refrain from making layoffs and salary reductions. This 
means employees can devote themselves fully to boosting performance at work to create more value for themselves and the 
Company.
Item Activities and DescriptionNumber of 
Participant/
BeneficiariesContribution/
Supplement
Maternity 
AllowanceWe offer a 6-month maternity allowance in compliance with the 
Employment Insurance Act.  CHT also offers additional monthly allowances totaling half the sum assured under the Labor Insurance Scheme. 122 
personsNT$ 14,731 
thousand
Sports 
ActivityRegional activities include 100 road running events, 130 hiking activities, 102 ball sports activities and 254 others (such as employee year-end dinners, travel, and so on).448 thousand 
personsNT$ 12,769 
thousand
ESOTImprovement of employee welfare, enhancement of employee coherence, sharing company achievements and the establishment of an employee stock ownership committee to guarantee the quality of life after retirement or resignation. About 19 
thousand 
personsNT$ 2.2  
thousand
/month per person
Dependent 
Education 
SubsidyTwice a year (two semesters).20,127 
personsNT$ 198,892 
thousand
Wedding 
SubsidyA wedding subsidy is available for employees who are to be lawfully married. 211 
personsNT$ 528 
thousand
Childbirth 
SubsidyEmployees or their spouses are eligible for a childbirth subsidy.467 
personsNT$ 1,168
thousand
Funeral 
SubsidyA funeral subsidy is available in the event of the death of a parent, foster parent, step-parent, the spouse or a child of an employee. 865 
personsNT$ 4,325
thousand
Recreation
and Sports 
SpaceIncludes an integrated stadium, swimming pool, tennis, badminton, basketball, and table tennis courts, multi-functional event space, karaoke room, and an employee dormitory.
Total 13,103 square meters
Note: Welfare is provided for employees of Chunghwa Telecom, but not for those of subsidiaries.
We have been implementing an unpaid childcare leave system since 2006 to help employees juggle their attention between 
work and family. Chunghwa Telecom is required, under the Employment Insurance Act, to pay a six months maternity 
allowance to employees who give birth. Female employees who have taken this leave are further entitled, under company 
policy, to receive an additional monthly allowance of half the sum assured under the Labor Insurance Scheme during child care leave, for a period up to two years. Employees of Chunghwa Telecom are also entitled to other privileges such as family 
care leave, paternity leave, menstrual leave, and a nursery room service.
In 2017, NT$ 14,731 thousand was paid out as child care leave allowances, an increase of NT$ 2,382 thousand over 2016; 
169 employees applied for maternity leaves; 122 employees applied for unpaid child care leave; 122 employees applied for 
child care leave allowances.
Employee requests for retirement are processed in accordance with the ”Chunghwa Telecom Employee Retirement Pension 
and Separation Guidelines,” the “Labor Standards Act,” and the “Labor Pensions Act.”
To help employees adapt to life after retirement, the Telecommunication Training Institute organized a series of “Retiree 
Adaptation Courses.” Nine sessions were held in 2017 for participants totaling 362. Furthermore, a donation of NT$ 4.5 
million was made by CHT to the “Chunghwa Telecom Retirees Association” for various activities, and NT$ 1.5 million for the 
organization of travel events. A further NT$ 300,000 was donated for a Chinese New Year banquet held for volunteers.
To facilitate the transfer of knowledge and experience, we have established a set of “Consultant Recruitment Guidelines” for 
retired employees to engage in our endeavors to maintain continuous growth. Consultants can have a paid or honorary role. 
Senior Executive Vice Presidents and above, and heads of first-grade institutions, may be hired by Chunghwa Telecom as 
paid consultants after retirement. Paid consultants shall serve a term of no more than one year, and assume honorary roles from the day after the one-year period has expired.hThe Labor Standards Act: The Company makes monthly pension contributions of up to 15% of an employees’ monthly
salary to the pension fund. This fund is held under the auspices of the Labor Pension Supervisory Committee. The current
balance of the pension fund account is NT$ 33.7 billion.
hThe Labor Pension Act: The Company makes monthly contributions of no less than 6% of an employees’ monthly salary.
These contributions are deposited in the employees’ pension account held by the Bureau of Labor Insurance of the
Ministry of Labor, in accordance with the Contribution Rate Sheet approved by the Executive Yuan.Parental Allowance Offer Better than Legal Requirements
Retirement BenefitsYear Item Male Female Total
2017The number qualified for UPL for raising children 2017 (A) 1,011 537 1,548
Number of applications for UPL 2017 (B) 31 91 122
Application rate for UPL 2017 (B/A) 3% 17% 8%
Number of expected reinstatements 2017 (C) 29 98 127
Number of applications for reinstatement 2017 (D) 29 98 127
Reinstatement rate 2017 (D/C) 100% 100% 100%
2016Number of reinstatements 2016 (E) 15 73 88
One year retention after reinstatement 2016 (F) 14 63 88
Retention rate 2016 (F/E) 93% 86% 88%
Note: 1. The number of employees entitled to apply for a parental leave of absence in 2017 (A): calculated as employees who 
had applied for maternity leave and parental leave in 2015-2017.
2.The number of expected reinstatements 2017 (C): The number of employees who applied from 2015 to 2017 and should
be reinstated in 2017.
3.The number of actual reinstatements 2017 (C): The number of employees who applied from 2015 to 2017 and werereinstated in 2017.
4.Reinstatement rate: (actual number of reinstated employees year/number of employees who should have been
reinstated that year) *100%
5. Retention rate: (the number who continued working after reinstatement/reinstated number for the previous year) *100%Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
International guidelines 
Domestic and international 
sustainability evaluation survey
International benchmarkHuman Rights Value Protection
We proactively monitor human rights issues, and actively protect the value of human rights. We have responded to the UN 
Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination and the prohibition 
of forced and child labor. We have also responded to the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the 
International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights. We are dedicated to the promotion of human rights awareness and to the assurance of respect and fair treatment to all stakeholders.
CHT is a member of the International Telecommunication Union and we fully comply with all the “International Radio 
Regulations” established with respect to equal rights to information. The regulation lays down rules concerning: freedom of 
communication, transparency in global roaming charges and competition, the support of telecommunication in developing nations, telecom services for persons with disabilities and the freedom of speech over telecom networks.
In addition, we support the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, for which a human rights due diligence 
investigation is presently being conducted. We also make sure that each human rights issue in the operational value chain is evaluated and we maintain all risk at a minimum level.
CHT conducts evaluations of potential human rights issues to identify any possible human rights violations. This evaluation 
allows us to take the necessary mitigation measures to ease any damage and impact. The identifying process is as follows: Human Rights Risk Investigation Process
Reviewing Issues
We refer to external and internal human rights 
indicators to evaluate related issues.STEP1
Identification Scope and Issue
Internal meetings and discussions are held 
to identify the corresponding value chain 
associated with each issue, including the CHT parent company, subsidiaries, re-investment 
companies, the supply chain and customers.STEP2
Internally
Annual major issues
The Company grievance 
channels
Externally
hUN’s “Declaration of Human Rights”
hUN’s “Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights”
hILO’s  “Convention”h“International Radio Regulation”
h“International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights”
h“International Covenant on Economic,Social, and Cultural Rights”
Note: Human rights issues include anti-discrimination, gender equality, freedom of association, collective bargaining, child 
labor, forced or compulsory labor, and aboriginal rights.
Assessing Impact
Each responsible unit carries out 
further assessments to confirm the 
relative impact of each different 
major issues. We record the audited 
result of impact level in detail on 
the “auditing items self-inspected 
implementation and record form 
for the promotion of human rights 
strategy.” STEP3
Mitigating and Monitoring
We deduce the value of the result 
and prepare a human rights value 
chain risk map. The responsible unit 
reviews the actual risk events and 
discusses and formulates possible 
improvements.STEP4
Disclosure
We disclose the implementation of 
human rights strategies and the audit 
process in the Annual CSR Report 
and on the Company website.STEP5
Value Chain Human Rights Risk Map
CategoryMaterial
IssuesIssue DescriptionsValue Chain with 
Potential Risk
Local  
Human RightsResponsible 
Procurement Do we forbid the use of raw materials and minerals from conflict 
zones?
Supply chains
Do we restrict the use of hazardous substances to protect the 
physical and mental health of employees? 
Indigenous 
RightsDo we respect the land ownership, health and safety of local 
indigenous groups when base stations are constructed? Chunghwa  
Telecom
Employment 
Human RightsWork Time and 
WagesIs there an event of overtime work? Is the pay lower than the 
minimum wage?
Chunghwa Telecom, 
supply chains, 
subsidiaries,  
and re-investment 
companiesFreedom of 
AssociationDo we encourage employees to join the Workers’ Union and 
sign collective bargaining agreements to ensure smooth labor-
management cooperation?
Anti-
Discrimination 
and HarassmentDo we discriminate, engage in harassment, or otherwise violate 
legislation?
Do we force employees to leave the Company because of 
pregnancy or unpaid childcare leave?
Do we pay differently for the same work or job based on gender?
Occupational 
Health and 
SafetyDo we provide a good work environment to ensure employee 
occupational safety?
Customer 
Human RightsInformation 
Security 
and Privacy 
Protection Do we have a strict control mechanism to ensure the safe 
transmission of personal customer information and good business 
conduct?Chunghwa Telecom, 
supply chains, and 
subsidiaries
Do we provide customers with a choice about the right to use their 
personal data again or for other purposes?Chunghwa  
Telecom
Information 
EqualityMinimize the 
Digital divideDo we provide corresponding services for minority groups in need 
to ensure information equality? Including migrant workers and local 
communities?Chunghwa  
TelecomCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Subjects of the 
Value ChainLocation 
AmountEvaluation 
MechanismEvaluation 
PercentagePercentage 
at RiskDescription/Boosting 
Mechanism
CHT Owned 
Institutes at 1 To 
2 Lower Levels23hLabor-management
meeting
hCollective agreement
hWorkers’ Union meeting
hAnnual human rightsevent inspection100% 1%hSome institutes were in violationof regulations and legislation and
corrective measures had to betaken.
hWe continue to protect human rights
through the Workers’ Union and
Collective Agreements.
Subsidiaries19Annual CSR implementation inspection 100% 1%Some institutes had violated the occupational safety and health regulations. We made some  suggestions for improvement and will continue with follow-up and proper management.
Re-Investment 
Companies6Annual CSR implementation inspection 100% 5%Some re-investment companies had violated legislation. We made some suggestions for improvement and will continue with follow-up and proper management.
Up-Stream and 
Down-Stream 
SuppliersTier 1 1,471
hCSR survey inventory
hCSR second party
audit
hOccupational healthand safety audit100% 1%hSome suppliers had violated thelabor laws and regulations.
hWe will continue to increase theevaluation percentage using more
Supplier Interchange Meetingand other channels. Follow-up ofsuppliers with identified risk willalso be done to see if improvementshave been made.Critical 
tier 1146
Critical 
tier 228
The PublicAll consumershDiverse complaint
channels (including
discrimination andharassment)
hSatisfaction survey
hPersonal information
and privacy rights
protection inspection
hMinority group service
mechanism100% 0%hThere was no discrimination orharassment, or any invasion of
CHT customer privacy or misuse ofpersonal information in 2017.
hWe will continue to promote the 5I
SDGs Initiative to ensure information
equality among the groups.2017 Value Chain Human Rights Evaluation Results
After a study of the 2017 risk analysis and inspection of the human rights value chain, we have concluded the following 
material issues, including:Human Rights Material Risk Issues
          Local Human Rights
To fulfill the concept of anti-forced labor and appropriate working environment, we required the bidders to sign a “Declaration 
of Minerals as Conflict-Free” at the procurement phase. We evaluated the suppliers to determine if raw materials derived 
from human rights high-risk areas like the République Démocratique du Congo were being utilized to avoid further 
infringement of the basic human rights of local residents in places where we provided information communication services 
and products. We depend on demand and require the suppliers to provide certification of material resources, third-party 
verification or accepted auditing to confirm no related violations.
We also required that all suppliers complied with the “Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive” (RoHS) to prevent 
hazardous substances from the source endangering local employees, the environment or customers.
          Employment Human Rights
We use the Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS 18000) to avoid potential risk and have 
systematically fulfilled employee safety and health management. In addition to compliance with the safety and health-related 
regulations toward high-risk tasks, we have also enhanced risk control. We continue to improve the working environment 
and take action in regards to safety and health facilities and measures to actively ensure employee protection.
Sometimes customer service personnel encounter irrational requests and even personal abuse from customers in the 
course of the provision of our services. We established an SOP for employee response and took action at a critical level 
in certain circumstances. Legal assistance can be authorized to provide assistance in the event of serious offenses and to 
prevent illegal practices. CHT adopted the ISO 10002 quality management system in 2001 and have a certified and flawless 
customer service procedure and management mechanism in place. In addition, we regularly offer pertinent educational 
training courses in customer relations, the management of emotional stress, and occupational hazard prevention. While 
building up professional capability, we positively avoid pressure on customer service personnel to avoid mental and physical 
health problems. Customer service personnel were given five training courses during the year and training hours totaled 588 
hours in 2017.
          Customer Human Rights
Due to the nature of our industry, in addition to establishing information security management applicable to the enterprise 
operation, we also implement measures to safeguard our customer’s personal information.
To improve our operational management we implemented information security in compliance with the international standards 
ISO 27001 and BS 10012 and carried out regular supplier auditing and supervision through employees or a third party. We 
also carried out vulnerability scanning and the testing of all equipment and software from outside suppliers to ensure there 
were no back-doors or malware.
We take customer privacy protection very seriously and in addition to acquiring the customer’s agreement before the 
collection of any personal information, we established the internal “Security and Safety Principle of Customer Information 
Re-use.” This means that personnel need to make formal application and receive managerial approval before being granted 
the authority that allows access to the advanced information security system. The system itself not only supervises and 
records employee operations but also only reveals the number of customers under certain conditions without touching 
detailed information. Related information also complies with the principle of “no names are revealed” to prevent the 
downloading of personal information and avoid leakage or disclosure.
          Information Equality
Chunghwa Telecom is creating a free and open information sharing 
environment without technological boundaries that can be shared by 
everyone. Such a system inherits culture, extends education, promotes 
industry, and upgrading art with a connection to the universe of the Internet. 
Digital technology can be beneficial to everyone irrespective of age, social 
standing, wealth, geographical location, or education. We base our approach 
on the characteristics of the ICT industry and the spirit of “value is where the 
responsibility lies,” in our work with the communities in Taiwan. Our main 
objective is to “minimize the digital divide and create digital opportunities,” 
Chunghwa Telecom watches the trends of this digital divide and offers 
solutions that facilitate social innovation and digital inclusion. We spare no 
effort in the advocacy of the “corporate volunteer,” participate in community 
services, and proactively assist communities in the creation of digital 
opportunities.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Safeguarding Consumer Rights and InterestsDigital Transformation of Diverse Virtual and Physical Channel Services
Chunghwa Telecom values consumers’ opinion. In addition to conveying technical features of the products and services we 
offer, we look at the matter from the point of view of the consumer. We provide consumers with the most comprehensive, 
high quality and efficient services putting a wide and diverse range of service channels at their disposal. By the end of 
December 2017, we had 465 direct physical channel service stores, and 285 franchised stores, a total of 750 service outlets 
that provide convenient service for all consumers in cities, or even in remote areas in Taiwan.
CHT is aligned with the digital economy and has made 2017 as its digital transformation year. We have put more resources 
to promote digitalized customer services, including a network of digital stores and a Chunghwa Telecom mobile customer 
service App. Business services such as bill inquiry and the application of international roaming will be replaced by mobile 
services to increase customer service capacity.
We provide a handbook about products and services for consumers that details product characteristics and applications, 
consider the negative aspect of overuse, and has friendly reminders provided while marketing. In addition, Chunghwa 
Telecom has set up the “Channel Sale Support Items Management Guideline” and “Channel Sales Support Items 
Management Implementation Procedures” to make the display of sales support items and operation management consistent 
throughout all the service and business locations. This ensures a positive service environment for consumers. These are 
vital for maintaining a superior and professional image as well as the service quality at Chunghwa Telecom. No violations of 
health and safety and product labeling was reported in 2017.Ethical Marketing and Information Transparency
Digital Customer Services ÑThe Chunghwa Telecom Customer Service App
The “Chunghwa Telecom Customer Service App” provides information 
about mobile, fixed network, international services, broadband Internet 
and other business services. The number of customers using the App 
each month has exceeded 6,600,000, about 90% of which are by mobile 
customers. The most common inquiries are about mobile Internet use, 
bills and contracts.
Chunghwa Telecom  
Customer Service APP
Download the free customer services APP that provides 
Chunghwa Telecom mobile phone, local telephone, 
broadband Internet and HiNeT business services with 
an instant and free round-the-clock customer response.
Wise Financial Promoter ÑCross-industry Collaboration for Smart Payment
According to eMarketer, smartphone use is more prevalent in Taiwan than in any other country in the world, and almost 
everyone has one. Mobile phones are used to connect with a wide range of different services. We have collaborated 
with Shin Kong Life Co., Ltd. and the Shin Kong Bank Co., Ltd. to provide mobile payment. Using the "Hami Wallet 
App" policyholders can use the Chunghwa Telecom 3G or 4G service to set up a payment account that allows them to pay their Insurance Premium from anywhere at any time.In 2017, Chunghwa Telecom established the first telecom combination store in Taoyuan, Taiwan. The location includes a cafe, 3C and an experimental display. Green store capability was also developed and energy saving household appliances 
such as TV, refrigerators, air purifiers and even electric bicycles provide customers with new service experiences.Diverse Services ÑThe CHT Combinative Store
Category Description
Customer Service KiosksThese serve as the “Database” for business and engineering-related information. When 
new information is received, it will be verified according to an SOP . Afterward, an FAQ will be further drafted and uploaded to the customer information station for use by the 
Chunghwa Telecom customer service personnel (at service outlets and call centers) and 
the Internet counter.
Consumer HotlineProvides complete information on the features of products and services, and related special offers.
MOD: The Biggest Audio-Visual Platform to Watch Multimedia on Demand
“My TV my demand, I buy what I want to watch!” Chunghwa Telecom MOD is the biggest audio-visual 
platform in Taiwan and it guided the development of national digital television in 2017. The service 
promoted a new profit distribution system with channels that encourage the introduction of high-
quality video. Audience subscription is attracted by multiple contents and the formation of positive circulation of the channels, platform and the consumer. This was the most successful revolution in the 
audio-visual industry.
The easy channel purchasing on MOD enables the customer to select freely and they need subscribe 
only to the channels they want. By providing multiple viewing models and content, we allow true 
viewing autonomy and provide rich audio-visual experiences.
Easy Shopping with Hami Wallet
Hami Wallet has been comprehensively upgraded to satisfy the demand for diverse mobile 
payments for “buying, transportation, point collection and payment." We have promoted 
the co-branded card in cooperation with card associations like MasterCard, CTBC Bank, 
E.SUN Bank, UBOT, iCash and iPass. It has been the first card combined with HCE andTSM and the first telecom carrier to provide an NFC co-branded card with an auto-reload
function in Taiwan. Our customers experience “one card in hand for more free mobile
payment,” with a combination of Pi Wallet, which gives an integrated payment function thatsatisfies a range of different payment situations.
Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Chunghwa Telecom complies strictly with the Personal Information Protection Act with respect to the collection, processing, 
and use of personal information and guarantees the best security and protection of personal information using its 
meticulously designed management system.
All our employees are involved in the implementation of personal information protection and are all fully aware of the need 
for security. To this end we have established a management mechanism for personal information. In addition to this we carry 
out proper awareness training on a regular basis and internal audits are done for certification and to give an unbroken trace of the outcome all the performance indicators.
In 2017, there were 14 complaints about alleged information leakage, fewer than the 21 cases in 2016. Complaints of 
this type accounted for only 0.000026% of our customer service hotline. The cases were checked using all the available 
channels and none of them were proved to be the result of a violation of the relevant regulations.
Chunghwa Telecom Management Mechanism for Personal Information
Category Description
OrganizationhWe have assembled a Personal Information Protection Task Force that answers to the Information
Strategy Committee to promote the security of CHT client personal information.
hCorporate headquarters has established the “Cyber Security Department” in charging ofcybersecurity strategy, regulations and SOC operation for the entire CHT corporation.
Policies and 
ProcedureshWe have complied with both International and National standards and regulations including BS10012, the Personal Information Protection Act, the Personal Data Protection Management for
Non-public Affairs Assigned, from the National Communications Commission and others. Allpersonal information protection policies and regulations implemented have been disclosed, andare posted on the Company internal website. We review and modify the content on a regularbasis and it is up-to-date and in accordance with all related regulations and newly discovered risk
issues.
hTo comply with the Personal Information Protection Act, the Company makes it easy for customers
to make inquiries, or to retrieve and make duplicate copies of their personal information. They can
also unsubscribe from the receipt of marketing messages and have their personal information fileentries deleted after termination of their service.
Management 
SystemhThe Company was the first Taiwanese mobile carrier to be validated by NCC for the “ISO
27001-International Information Security Management System” and “NCC ISO 27011-
Telecommunication Supplements.”
hChunghwa Telecom member services, all customer service hotlines and digital mobile products
have been certified under BS 10012.
Personnel Control hAll the customers’ basic profiles are classified as “highly confidential,” and all data is held inlocked dedicated cabinets.
hAll employees are required to sign a “Confidentiality Agreement,” and line managers are heldjointly responsible for any breaches by their subordinates.
hIf an outsourced service involves business secrets, the contractor and the workers would also berequired to sign a confidentiality agreement.
hThe history of all computer access to customer personal files by employees is recorded and kepton file. This history is audited by the manager on a regular basis.
Customer Service 
Control hCustomer service operations are carried out within the boundaries outlined in the “CustomerService Department Personal Information Protection Manual.” The Company promotes proper
awareness on a regular basis and detailed records are kept for future reference.
hThe Company has a personal information incident procedure in place that requires the customer
service center to handle all leakage of personal information in accordance with the “Customer
Service Department Personal Information Incident Procedure Handbook.”
hIn an attempt to provide each department with the right incentives to enforce personal information
protection, we organize a competition every six months and reward the top three performers
with trophies and prizes. The competition rates participants on several aspects including cross-server virus alert, a social engineering email test, third-party verification and personal informationincidents.Proper Management of Personal Information
Item Description
Customer 
Service 
Location
/ SizehThe Company has 15 customer service
centers
hThe number of customer service personnelaverages 3,200
Multi
Channel 
Customer 
ServiceshWebchat
hSocial media, “Chunghwa Telecom Dr. Q FanPage”
hWeb customer service center
hMobile customer service center
hMobile App
hSMS
Training 
ResultWe use customer service training workshops 
to refine our customer-centric approach and 
devotion to the provision of the most thoughtful 
services. In 2017 three such workshops were held in the Chunghwa Telecom training facilities 
in Banqiao, Taichung, and Kaohsiung. A total 
of 450 people participated in these training sessions which were also made available online 
for remote teaching.
YearTotal 
Participants 
TotalTotal
Training 
HoursAverage 
Training 
Hours
2015 7,838 166,960 21.3
2016 7,487 171,355 22.9
2017 6,832 161,911 23.7Chunghwa Telecom provides services which are refined, 
thoughtful and professional to build the most congenial 
and warm atmosphere around customer relations. We use 
big data analysis to learn the true needs of customers so that we can offer thoughtful and customized services and 
products. This positive approach cultivates both favorable 
impressions and brand loyalty.
We received the “Best Corporate Customer Experience 
Management” and the “Best Service Innovation Team” of CSEA Customer Service Excellence Awards given by the 
Taiwan Contact Center Development Association. We were 
also awarded first place in the 15th “Global Views: Five-Star Service” of the telecom division.Refined Customer Service
First Place “Five-Star Service Award” for Six Consecutive Years
We treat our customers with sincerity and honesty, and fully grasp the idea that “Good Service is Good Business.” We 
understand customers’ needs and also know it is important to gain their trust.  We have been rewarded for our service 
quality by the award of first place in “Global Views: Five-Star Service” of the Telecom Division for six consecutive years.
We have strict requirements for our customer service personnel. In addition to a good speaking tone, attitude and 
proper etiquette, we emphasize a need for professional competence. We have set up a training group to strengthen 
professional skill with diverse training methods and relevant content. To expand our training capacity, we have prepared audio/visual versions of all our teaching material and this has been uploaded to a MOD audio-visual platform for 
broadcast at morning meetings. We have also built an e-learning platform, for the introduction of a range of business 
information and value-added services, as a question bank for employee reference.
Innovative Customer Services
To help us quickly understand a customers’ problems and find a solution, we started integrating voice applications 
into our customer service platform in 2016. In 2017, we adhered to our brand spirit of “Always ahead” and continue to 
develop and extend related technologies expected to serve customers better with more convenient services.
A text-based customer service bot: Texting has become very popular with the growth of the mobile Internet and has
emerged as a new way to serve customers. We introduced an internal AI assistance application at the end of 2017 to
promote the working efficiency of customer service personnel and expect official services to be launched at the endof June, 2018.
Interactive Voice Response (IVR): IVR not only provides customers with a brand new call experience, but also helps
them find the services they need through “speaking” and this reduces the time spent listening to options. Technical
development of the system was completed and functionality testing continued during 2017. The launch is expectedby the end of 2018.
VOC and smart quality inspection: Chunghwa Telecom records and analyzes customer calls to learn customers’
real opinion. Our focus is the conversion of words, phrases, and spoken sentences into text, so that we may have a
complete picture of what a customer wants and take the necessary steps to meet their expectations.
Chunghwa Telecom Customer Service Mechanism ScanningCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
To inspire passion and professionalism among customer service officers, we reward customer service personnel who 
receive praise from customers, and accept these credits as part of their performance appraisal as an excellent service 
quality. Meanwhile, a “Service Excellence” section has been created on the Intranet to publish cases of excellent service for 
personnel to share, learn and download.Commendation for Best Customer Service Personnel
Thank You for Your Professional and Warming Service
Ms. Chen has called to inform that she had not received her bill and customer 
service specialist Ms. Fan immediately found and resent the bill. Ms. Chen also 
said that she has received a marketing promotion call for broadband Internet 
contract renewal, but considered that renewal through the customer service 
hotline was easier and there was no need for concern about fraud. After that, 
customer service specialist Ms. Fan described and introduced the suitable plan 
content in detail. Finally, Ms. Chen decided to renew the broadband Internet to 
100M and praised Ms. Fan’s professional service.
The line was disconnected for some reason during the call and Ms. Fan 
immediately called the customer back. In addition to telling Ms. Chen that the 
broadband Internet had been completely upgraded, she told Ms. Chen about 
related issues. Because of the thoughtful service, Ms. Chen asked to talk to 
the customer services manager, saying: “Ms. Fan had a great and professional 
service attitude. I want to tell you that I am in a good mood this morning thanks 
to her. She is a modest and great person and I really appreciated the service. 
Chunghwa Telecom manager has good guidance. Thank you so much.”
Starting from the greeting “Good morning, Ms. Chen,” customer service specialist Ms. Fan made a good impression 
on the customer and quickly provided professional assistance and the appropriate suggestions to resolve the 
customer’s problem, adding a new sale into the bargain.
In 2011, Chunghwa Telecom became the telecom carrier to have all its centers certified for the “ISO 10002:2004 
Customer Complaint Management System.” The Company views customer complaints as opportunities to make ongoing 
improvements. The resolution of customer complaints and dissatisfaction is rule-based and they must be settled within 3 
working days. This approach ensures the continuous improvement of service quality.
In addition to the customer service hotline, consumers may also use the corporate website or Representative Line 
authorized by the President (02-23446789) to raise complaints directly to the assistance of the senior executive.
We conduct a broad variety of satisfaction surveys to identify the issues of most concern to consumers and their 
expectations. We use these findings to guide future improvements. After each survey, the opinions and suggestions are 
conveyed promptly to product or business personnel (including Risk Management and the Public Relations Departments) 
using the consumer feedback system. Furthermore, consumers’ opinions are brought to the attention of the senior manager 
of the product and customer service departments for discussion at monthly meetings to ensure that the consumers’ 
expectations receive proper consideration.
Regarding the IPA (Importance-Performance Analysis) items belonging to the fourth quadrant (high importance and low 
performance) after a review of the results of the annual satisfaction survey, we will request that the relevant functional units 
conduct further analysis and propose measures for concrete improvement every year. There will also be a follow-up in the 
next quarter to keep track of the progress of any corrective action found necessary.KPIs for the Customer Service Hotline
Consumer Satisfaction SurveyKPI 2015 2016 2017
Customer Service Response
Within 20 Seconds78.50% 77.38% 72.26%
Service Satisfaction (5-point scale) 4.61 4.64 4.68
Consumer Category Survey Method Survey Result (10-point scale)
Large Enterprise
Designate an external market 
survey company to conduct 
consumer satisfaction survey9.12
Small and Medium
Enterprise Consumer9.08
Average Consumer 7.57
Tenth Anniversary of 123 Customer Service Day
The “123 customer service principles” were introduced to optimize the quality of customer services. 1. “Listening”: An 
applied “Service Excellence” section to win customer trust. We listen with great care so that we can fully understand 
the customer’s problem so that a quick response can be made; 2. “Caring”: We take great care and give assistance to 
the customer at once; 3. “Engaging”: We have established a new generation of customer engagement activities. This is 
designed to build a warm relationship with each customer.
We established this Customer Service in January 2007 
to integrate the 123 and 080 service hotlines. This 
service is available 24 hours a day all year round. The 
Chairman, Yu Cheng, noted that: the “123 customer 
service hotline has served more than 40,000,000 people 
a year and the average score of service satisfaction has 
reached more than 4.6 (on a 5-point scale). However, we 
are not satisfied with this and will continue to optimize 
the customer service process and promote customer 
service quality!” We will use big data to analyze 
consumer behavior from past accumulated data to 
learn about the actual needs of customers and optimize 
customer experience.
Video record of the event >Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Total Coverage of Free 4G Telecommunication in Remote Areas
Chunghwa Telecom accelerated the construction of mobile networks in 2017. In addition to having the greatest number 
of 4G base stations in the industry, achieved by a growth of 40%, we also provide the only four carrier aggregation (4CA) 
service all across Taiwan High-Speed Rail and in the 20 most popular commercial areas in the country. Chunghwa Telecom 
provides the most comprehensive service with wide bandwidth and all their customers enjoy the smoothest Internet operation available. 
To ensure the equal sharing of information, in addition to a positive strengthening of mobile Internet quality in populous 
metropolitan areas, we have paid more attention to signal coverage in remote areas. We have achieved 100% total 4G 
coverage in all the towns, and continue to go deep into the mountain areas and off-shore islands. Of the 747 remote villages 
and areas in Taiwan 736 have 4G LTE coverage.
We have the widest bandwidth at 180 MHz and will continue to use our bandwidth advantage to enhance Internet speed, 
expand network capacity and provide the most reliable mobile service. To support the “DIGI+ Program” initiative introduced 
by the Executive Yuan, we expect to increase the 1Gbps network coverage to 72% by 2020.
We have also supported the government initiative for the promotion of free wireless 
Internet services on a nationwide scale. By making a reasonable Wi-Fi rental 
package available, as well as a robust user authentication platform and a nationwide maintenance/monitoring system, we have helped the government deploy free Wi-
Fi hotspots all over the country. By the end of 2017, we had installed more than 
59,000 public Wi-Fi hotspots, giving users access to stable high-bandwidth in a densely covered Wi-Fi service.
Our contributions to social events in 2017 included working with local county and 
city governments to provide Wi-Fi hotspots and enable Internet access at festive 
gatherings and international sports events. We installed 2,200 hotspots for the 2017 Universiade, 107 hotspots for New Year’s Eve festivity, 180 for the Lantern Festival 
and about 147 for other activities. The company participated in 28 festive occasions 
and spent more than NT$ 2 million.
In accordance with related business management regulation announced by the NCC in 2017, we voluntarily disclosed and 
described the circumstances and damage treatment concerning the material web inaccessibility incidents with follow-up 
repair services on the Company website.Expand Wireless Hotspots
2017 Material Web Inaccessibility Incidents and Response
hEquipment abnormality caused
an interruption in access to the
Internet for some mobile users inTaipei, New Taipei, Keelung Cityand Yilan District.
hLocal equipment degradation
in the Hsinchu District caused
a fire alarm and resulted in atemporary power failure to rescueequipment.
hService was suspended as a
result of center control breakdown
in the Changhua District.hOld equipment and component
degradation
hUnexpected inaccessibilityhEnhance the standard equipmente m e rg e n c y  re p a i r  p ro c e s s ,
r e i n f o r c e  j o b  t r a i n i n g  f o rmaintenance personnel, promoteequipment maintenance andtechnique and emergency repair
skill and reduce false judgment as
well as management time.
hEstablish an interface for each
network traffic anomaly or warning,
in good time and report measuresto be taken to enhance crosswisenotice and management.
Inaccessibility 
Overview
Cause
Analysis
Enhance 
Measures
hThe overall inspection of all
equipment similar to that of any
which failed was carried out and40,000  installation inspections
were made in 2017.
hRequest all the branches to make
regular inspection of related
equipment and keep track ofregistration.hHold educational training
sessions. There were about 900
participants in 2017 and the duty
handbook was amended.
hEnhancement of research
and study into related training
courses aimed at core networkmaintenance personnel. Therewere about 42 participants in
2017.hThe average number of web
inaccessibility events for each
customer per year was 0.019
times/year in 2016 and decreasedto 0.013 times/year in 2017.
hThe average duration of web
inaccessibility was 3.69 minutes/
year in 2016 and decreased to
1.55 minutes/year in 2017.
Actual 
Practices
 ResultsChunghwa Telecom continues to install repeaters, backup wireless routers, and backup power supplies to increase reliable 
transmission capacity in remote areas. By increasing the capacity of backup batteries to more than 72 hours, the Company 
ensures that residents in remote locations can stay connected even when main power has been disrupted by a natural 
disaster.
In efforts to minimize the impact of disasters by prompt messaging, the Chunghwa Telecom self-developed “Emergency Response 
SMS System” sent out more than 330,000 SMS alerts in 2017. The role of this service in disaster prevention and notification was outstanding. In addition, a “Public Warning System” (PWS) has been established to support the national policy of emergency message 
dissemination about typhoons, earthquakes, thunderstorms, landslides, roadblocks, reservoir flooding or an outbreak of disease, fast 
and correctly to specific regions simultaneously. As long as a mobile phone is open to the PWS function all our 3G and 4G customers will receive messages about disasters. During 2017, the PWS transmitted more than 14,000 alert messages.
In March 2017, we assisted the New Taipei City Government in organizing the “All-out Defense Mobilization Drill,” the Taoyuan City 
Government, Taiwan Power Company and CPC Corporation in organizing the “Executive Yuan Disaster Prevention and Rescue Practice Evaluation and Field Drill” and also participated in the “Nuclear Safety Drill No. 23” at Taiwan Power Company’s 2rd nuclear 
plant in September. We messaged reports to the residents in specific regions through the “Emergency Response SMS System.” In October, we assisted the Changhua County Government and Directorate General of Highways, MOTC in organizing the first “Baguashan 
Tunnel Both-way Enclosed Disaster Prevention Drill” within 12 years. We also helped the government units and the public to increase 
the awareness of the need for action in the case of a disaster and also the need for emergency response capabilities.Enhanced Disaster Response and Communication Coverage
Disaster Reporting and Upgraded SafetyResponse 
Measures
We conduct annual emergency drills for a wide number of different events, from the coordination of 
network resources and equipment to emergency repairs. Our base stations have been deployed in a 
diversified manner and are covered by robust backup plans so that failure of circuitry, power or equipment 
at any base station will not disrupt the operation of other nearby base stations.
Occurrenceof Disaster
If communication is severely disrupted in the unfortunate event of a natural disaster, we take contingency 
measures, that depends on the actual circumstances, to maintain communication between the disaster 
locations and the outside world. These can include microwave radio, satellite transmission, portable base 
stations, etc.
SpecialCases
Areas that are enclosed and accessible only through one road, such as on the Suhua Highway, are 
covered using multiple base stations so that even if one station were to be damaged in a natural disaster, 
other paired stations may still function to maintain contact with the area by phone.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
According to a report by the World Health Organization (WHO) and related scientific research, exposure to base stations and 
Wi-Fi signals does not affect human health. For this issue, Chunghwa Telecom ensures strict compliance with the authority’s 
safety standards when constructing telecom infrastructure. The Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of all mobile communication 
products we purchased have complied with the restrictions of the National Communications Commission (NCC).
Given the scarcity of suitable base station locations and the need to assure consumer rights to quality communication, we 
will strive to comply with regulations by taking the approved precautions at all stages of installation. In 2017, Chunghwa Telecom incurred NT$ 3.5 million in fines and administrative penalties on seven counts of violations associated with base 
stations. These violations occurred as we sought to address consumer demand for “good reception” and concern towards 
“negative health impacts from base stations.”
The measurement of the electromagnetic radiation in the environment conforms to the standard of the International 
Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), which must be lower than 0.45 μW/cm2 at 900MHz and less 
than 0.9μW/cm2 at 1,800MHz. Any resident who has concerns regarding base stations near their home can request a free complimentary measurement of the strength of the nearby electromagnetic waves by calling 0900-580-010. The Alleviation of Public Concern about Electromagnetic Waves
Types of Base Stations Installed by CHT
3G14.3%
85.7%4G9.3%
90.7%
Independent Station
Shared StationNote: 
Installed on existing buildings.
Advocate the Accurate Understanding
of Electromagnetic Waves
Chunghwa Telecom has been working closely with 
the Taiwan Telecommunication Industry Development 
Association to convey to the public the correct 
information about electromagnetic waves, by organizing conferences and issuing promotional materials.
hThe Company joined NCC and 19 county/city
governments nationwide in hosting 33 seminars on
the topic of electromagnetic waves and 158 freecomplimentary electromagnetic wave measurementshave been completed to date.
hLocal government bodies were issued some
promotional material and pamphlets about
electromagnetic radiation, which were distributed tothe public during various activities to promote properunderstanding.
In 2007, Chunghwa Telecom assisted the government in establishing the 165 Anti-Fraud Consultation Hotline to support the 
police and authorities in the defiance against fraud.Fraud PreventionTelecom Services and Promotions
Item Description
Resources CommittedhAn average of 11 customer service personnel joined the service every month to work with
the Criminal Investigation Bureau in a concerted front-line duty effort from Monday to Friday.
h“Disconnection Service Fraud Prevention System” offers information on some suspectedtelephone gimmicks used for cheating customers and a timely settlement of the problem. An
average of one customer service person participated in the program each month.
Prevention of Fraud on 
Network / Mobile Devices hA two-way, SMS-based authentication system was introduced for small payments.
hA scam alert was added to all two-way SMS authentication messages.
Progress Description
in 2017hThe hotline received 235,692 calls, and 18,992 cases of fraud were referred to the authorities.
hThe Company assisted the Criminal Investigation Bureau, National Policy Agency in
disconnecting 723 phone numbers, and successfully stopped 1,903 scams.
Reducing Negative Impact of the Internet
We continue to minimize negative material circulating 
on the Internet through diverse action plans, and 
endeavor to provide consumers with a healthy, trouble-free network environment.Item Description
Anti-Virus
and Anti-
HackerA HiNet mailbox gives customers access to a free 
webmail service. A simple setup, allows users to 
decide if questionable e-mail will be automatically deleted in the future. We continue to monitor the 
formulation of the regulatory obligations of the 
“Regulations for Commercial Electronic Spam Mail.”
Adult 
ContentProvides “K12 Mailbox Forced Isolation,” the 
“HiNet Adult Content Gatekeeper,” and the “Mobile 
Adult Content Security Guard” keeps children and teenagers out of harmful websites.
Usage 
Time 
ControlThe “HiNet Online Time Management Service” and mobile phone “3G Talk Without Worries” programs, give parents effective control of the mobile phone 
and Internet use. 
MOD 
Parental 
LockThe Parental Lock can be set at “protected” 
or “parental guidance.” Settings are in effect immediately once the password has been entered. 
The parental lock can be used to protect children 
from harmful or bad content.
As an industry leader in online safety, Chunghwa Telecom participated in the online safety solutions forum at the 2017 
APAC Online Safety Summit. The “Adult Content Gatekeeper,” a filter that blocks inappropriate content, won the Online 
Safety Summit Award.
An investigation of child and youth sexual exploitation conducted by The Garden of Hope Foundation, showed 
increasing sexual exploitation using the Internet as the medium. Interviews conducted with children showed that 
11.6% of those interviewed reported that they had been in touch with the sex industry through pornography sites. The Internet has become a dark route used in the sexual exploitation of children and youth and has thrived as the 
technology developed.
The Chunghwa Telecom “Adult Content Gatekeeper” has a complete blacklist database, that includes Chinese, 
English, Japanese, French and other languages, and we use reports from the national Internet content protection 
institution iWIN for updates. By providing direct filtration from the generator room end, we prevent connection to 
websites containing six types of harmful content such as pornography, violence, suicide, gambling, weapons and drugs. We effectively protect the network environment of children and youth by this investment in professional 
information security in the APAC region.The Adult Content Gatekeeper Won the APAC Online Safety Summit Award
CHT Adult Content Gatekeeper: http://hicare.hinet.net/intro-a.phpCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Completes 100% of the Following Targets in 2020: 
h“Tier 1 suppliers” CSR current status assessment
h“Critical tier 1 suppliers” educational training of
carbon management knowledge and ESG on-site
audits
Promises to Reach the Following Targets in 2023: 
hThe capacity for renewable energy constructed
from proprietary was 750 kWp
hTaking 2017 as the base year, a 10% reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions in our buildings
hTaking 2017 as the base year to cumulativelysave 10% of the energy by 2023 pursuant to the
generator room energy-saving program
hCollect the suppliers’ information on climatechange and carbon emission at least once a yearTARGETT
INDICATORI
GHG emissions 832,987.46 t-CO 2e
A CHT photovoltaic system with a total capacity of 527 
kWp
Implement the “Suppliers CSR second-party audit” on 
10 suppliersGRI
GRI 
GRIhInstituted the “Code of Corporate Social
Responsibility for Suppliers of Chunghwa Telecom
Co., Ltd.”
hInstituted the “Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.
Procurement Grievance Procedures”
hEstablishment of the “Environmental SustainabilityStrategies and 5-Year Plan”
MANAGEMENTM
hEfficient energy management using
EARTH
hThe launch of the 5G initiative in pursuitof profit, environmental sustainability, and
social responsibility
hBecame the first telecom service provider
in Taiwan to implement the “Supply ChainCSR Audit and Assistance.”
ACTIONA
hCHT Supplier CSR Interchange Meeting
hVisit and interchange sustainable
environment
hTargets low-carbon industries andpromotes solar energy
RESPONSER
The Green Corporation 
Pioneer
The SDGs CHT contributes to in this sectionSMART-I
Facilitation of greenness in the ICT industry (Green of ICT) and 
overall greenness of society through ICT (Green by ICT)
STRATEGYS
The 5G Green Enterprise
Although telecommunication is regarded as a low-polluting industry, Chunghwa Telecom is well aware of the environmental 
impacts associated with energy, resources, waste, maintenance, purchasing and other aspects of our operation.
We have devised a new set of “Sustainable Environment Development Strategy and Target Plan” that outlines our overall 
strategy and roadmap for sustainable environmental development. In addition, budgets will be provided in each year to 
support action plans.
To fulfill our green commitment and embrace the world’s green challenge, Chunghwa Telecom has adopted a “Green 
Enterprise, Sustainability and Innovation Strategy” with the introduction of 5G (Green) initiatives: “Green Operations, Green 
Energy, Green Stores, Green Supply Chain, and Green Procurement” that aim to address financial success, sustainability 
and social responsibility.
Green 
Enterprise
Green 
Sustainability
Green 
Innovation
Short-TermReduce power usage 
effectiveness (PUE) of new 
IDCs to less than 1.5Absolutely reduce 1% of 
annual electricity in terms of 
absolute valueSave power by 1% at the 
telecom server and IDCs
Mid-TermMaintain at least 5% of the
green purchaseConstruct more than 
1,000 kWp of photovoltaic 
systemsAchieve 1% annual revenue 
growth of green products/
services
Long-TermMake more than 50% of 
purchases from the green 
supply chainConstruct more than 
5,000 kWp of photovoltaic 
systemsGrow green products/
services to account for 20% 
of total revenue1GGreen 
OperationshA self-developed EARTH system for 100% control of environmental
information
hReceived ISO 14001/ISO 50001 certification at all our business locations
2GGreen
EnergyhSelf-constructed photovoltaic systems reached a total capacity of 527 kWp
hRanked in first place in green power purchasing in the nationwide telecom
industry
3GGreen
StoreshTransformed 400 service centers into “Green Stores”
hPromoted paperless services and accumulated a saving of 420,000,000
sheets of paper
4GGreen 
Supply ChainhBecame the  first telecom carrier to promote supply chain sustainability
management
hParticipated in the CDP Supply Chain Project to expand the efficiency of
carbon management
5GGreen
ProcurementhReached a total of NT$ 1.223 billion in green procurement in 2017,  No. 1
in the industry
hReached 5% of total procurement as green procurement every yearCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
1G Green Operations
Chunghwa Telecom has set themselves a goal to become a sustainable “Green enterprise,” and has made environmental 
issues an incorporated part of business operation and management. We hope to play a more proactive role in issues such as 
energy and climate change. By improving energy efficiency and exploring environmental friendly products and services, we are 
confident of our potential to inspire a new generation of low-carbon industries.
We developed the Environment ARtificer THeurgy (EARTH) system in 2008 to manage resources and protect the environment 
more efficiently as well as to reduce spending on energy consumption.
EARTH system features include
Chunghwa Telecom Hostels provide accommodation 
for employee business or leisure travel. In response to environmental protection and personal hygiene, the hostels 
do not provide disposable, or consumable items or towels. 
They also take energy-saving measures such as solar water heating, air conditioning using heat pumps and LED lighting. 
Nineteen hostels had been certified as Environmental 
Friendly Accommodation by 2017.Environment ARtificer THeurgy (EARTH)
Green Environmental Hostels Environmental Management Expenses
Chunghwa Telecom’s e-invoice value-added center service allows corporate customers to store 
invoices permanently as digital files on a cloud server for ease of access. Alternative printed 
copies of invoices have been downsized to no larger than 5 x 8 cm, and only one sheet of paper 
is printed regardless of the number of items purchased. As a result, the amount of pulp used has been reduced to somewhere between 1/3 and 1/4, which has effectively reduced business costs.
For example, a business that prints 3.8 million digital invoice pages per month would be able to 
save 4,600 trees in a year, and given the average carbon absorption capacity of 10-20 kg per 
tree, the solution could reduce carbon emission by 90,000 kg a year. In 2017, 676 Chunghwa 
Telecom customers were using the digital invoice system, which generated annual revenue of NT$ 5.7 million.E-Invoice Value-Added Center Service
F*/70*$&
Item 2015 2016 2017
Environmental 
management 
expense
 (NT$ thousand)275,975 286,734 300,722
Accounted 
percentage
of turnover
 (%)0.13 0.12 0.15
Energy Saving 
and Innovation
E n e r g y  s a v i n g s  a n d 
i n n o v a t i o n  i n i t i a t i v e s h a v e  b e e n  u p l o a d e d and implemented in all departments to encourage employees to learn from each other.
Performance 
Evaluation
Performance evaluation is 
conducted systematically to encourage employees to contribute to environmental sustainability actions.
Power 
Management
R e q u e s t  c e n t r a l i z e d 
payment of electricity bill; there are more than 60,429  
electricity accounts and 2,704,535 units of electricity p a y m e n t  d a t a  u n d e r management.
Water 
Management
R e q u e s t  c e n t r a l i z e d 
payment of electricity bill; there are more than 1,285  
water accounts and 101,572 
units of water payment data under management.
Carbon Emission 
Management
This provides a carbon 
v e r i f i c a t i o n  f o r m  a n d the results were greatly enhanced as 300 man-day 
operations.
Fuel
Management
Fuel use data for hybrid 
and ordinary vehicles were analyzed to improve energy e ff i c i e n c y  a n d  re d u c e carbon emission.
Corporate Tree 
Planting
Document type, number, 
management department and location of trees. There are over 251 varieties of 
tree and 67,326  tree data 
points saved in the EARTH database.
Recycling 
Management
Document type, volume 
of recycled material and the recycling management d e p a r t m e n t .  W e  h a v e recorded 
22 t y p e s  o f 
recycling and there have been 
16,563,292  entries made.
2G Green Energy
Chunghwa Telecom has been positively supporting the government policy and applying its extensive ICT background 
knowledge in the construction of solar power stations. By the end of 2017, the Company had 45 solar power stations around 
Taiwan with a total capacity of 527 kWp.
Electricity Consumption of IDCs
Year 2015 2016 2017
Power usage 
(10,000 kWh)14,539 15,210 16,065
In 2017, Chunghwa Telecom received a tender for a new solar power plant to be established in the Changhua Coastal area 
of the Taiwan Power Company currently the largest scale of Solar Power Plant in Taiwan, at 140 hectares. It is expected to 
be finished in 2019 and it is estimated that the facility will increase our revenue by about NT$ 5.8 billion.
The solar panel landscape environment designed for the new solar power plant uses images of local protected animals, 
the Chinese white dolphin (Sousa chinensis) and the little tern (Sternula albifrons) and has used the concept of green 
building for the substation design. It will become one of the most magnificent sights in the Changhua Coastal Industrial Park and the best nationwide location for energy education.
We established a smart energy office in 2015 to fully develop the green power market for solar power, wind power and 
marsh gas power. As of September, 2017, we had 373 sites operating which generated 103 MW of electricity. We have applied ICT and IoT to include the solar power plant systems in the cloud intelligent platform iEN to monitor power 
generation and to send alerts to maintenance staff about any malfunctions that might occur.Snatching Green Energy Business and the Largest Scale Solar Power Plant Tender
Driven by care towards environmental sustainability, Chunghwa Telecom actively supports the government’s Green Power 
Purchasing System and bought 4 million kWh of green electricity in 2016, followed by another 6 million kWh in 2017. We 
shall continue with our firm resolve to promote renewable energy sources and will assist the government in the creation 
of a green energy economy by making a serious contribution to the industrial development of a green energy supply and environmental protection.
Chunghwa Telecom places great emphasis on the energy efficiency of 
our data centers, and is currently implementing energy conservation 
measures for telecom data centers (including IDCs). The efficient 
application of our proprietary iEN smart energy management system is our scientific approach to reducing energy, carbon emission and 
protection of the environment.First in Green Power Procurement
Energy Saving for Data CentersYearTotal Electricity 
Consumption 
(10,000 kWh) (A)General 
Consumption 
(10,000 kWh) (B)Business 
Consumption 
- Meter Rate
Lighting Service 
(10,000 kWh) (C)Business 
Consumption - 
Flat Rate Lighting 
Service
 (10,000 kWh) (D)Business 
Consumption 
Increment
 (10,000 kWh) (E)Business 
Consumption 
Increment Rate 
(F)
2007 135,180 9,420 125,151 609 NA NA
2015 142,092 8,571 125,740 7,781 178 0.13%
2016 140,438 109,590 24,980 5,867 - -
2017 136,269 108,525 22,289 5,455 -3,103 -11.18%
Note: 1. The method of calculation was modified in 2016 to more efficiently present power usage. This modification resulted in 
a significant change in data under columns B-F, but total power usage actually decreased compared to 2015.
2.General consumption: office buildings and employee dormitories.
3. Business consumption: base stations, depot, electric welding and public telephone, which are not CHT-owned
property.
4.A=B+C+D, General consumption mainly includes the power consumption of office building. Business consumption
increment includes flat and meter rate lighting service.
5. E=Business consumption this year - Business consumption last year; F=E/A
6. This table presents electricity consumption with customer ID, other consumption without customer ID is covered by
greenhouse gas inventory.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Water usage at Chunghwa Telecom is mostly domestic. Apart from bathroom use, air conditioner cooling accounts for another 
major water use. Given the ongoing increase in business activities and manpower, there is limited room for water reduction 
besides the recovery of rainwater and cooling water.
We benchmarked the 2012 water usage as the standard, and now control the annual growth of water usage to no more than 
2%. In addition to a new water leakage detection feature in products, we have also included Company water consumption in 
the EARTH system. Centralized water bill payment is done through the EARTH “water bill management” function to reduce the printing of water bills. Managers can use the system to search, generate trend charts and report forms, and provide exception 
reports to avoid mistakes in billing and meter reading. Managers can also review the situation of water usage according to 
trend charts and reports, reduce expenses in water, and improve the efficiency of management.
The management and analysis information interface can be used to promote water conservation measures and set concrete 
management goals. We also promote water-saving measures to increase efficiency in water use:
To enhance the effectiveness of water recycling and reuse, we have set up raft foundation water collection systems 
underground to collect clean rainwater from rooftops and the ground surface. We have also initiated the recycling of cooled 
and condensed water from office air-conditioners and promoted a recycling and reuse plan for rainwater, bathwater and air 
conditioner water. The recycled water is reused for watering plants and cleaning sidewalks.Water Resource Management
Recycling of Water ResourceshInstall sink faucet sprayers to reduce waste
hInstall dual flush toilets to reduce waste
hUse collected rainwater for watering office plants
hEncourage the installation of water reclamation equipment in new buildings, so that physically separated and treated
sewage water can be reused for non-potable purposes after it has reached a certain quality standard
Unit: metric ton Recycled water Tap water Air-conditioner water
776,377
1,742,680
7,614
721,476
1,758,145
14,087
726,454
1,747,038
4,211
20
17
20
16
20
15
Chunghwa Telecom understands the importance of resources 
reduction, recycling and reuse and has combined a five-
year environmental sustainability development plan with the 
EARTH system. This is used to manage the use of resources 
and control energy efficiency, as well as to conduct systematic 
management of recyclables and waste treatment.
We contracted a professional waste treatment company to 
transport our daily waste to landfills or incinerators for disposal. 
Recyclable waste is handled by a contracted cleaning company 
that is responsible for classification, treatment and proper 
disposal.Waste Management
265,455 254,198 180,764Scrapped lead-acid batteries are recyclable industrial waste regulated by the EPA. Business organizations are responsible for 
the reduction of pollution, disposal of toxic substances and simple waste disposal. All recycling and disposal operations are 
outsourced by joint contract based on the public auction. The contractor must be a qualified service provider listed on the 
website of the Recycling Fund Management Board of the EPA to ensure legitimate management and disposal and to reduce 
environmental impact.
Scrapped lead-acid batteries from each business unit are auctioned on site, and the “Announcement and Delivery Slip for 
Removal and Disposal of Waste Lead-Acid Batteries” is retained for reference. The gradual rise in raw material prices has 
also caused the recycling and reuse value of scrapped lead-acid batteries to increase. A total of 32,264 lead-acid batteries 
with a total weight of 2,065,674 kg were scrapped and sold for NT$ 38,496 thousand in 2017. In fulfilling our responsibility for 
environmental protection, we also increased Company revenue.
The public and private waste clearance and disposal companies recognized by environmental institutions are designated to 
handle the treatment of other industrial waste such as cables and miscellaneous hardware.Industrial Waste
201520162017Miscellaneous Hardware 
(NT$ thousand)Plastic-Filled Cable
(metric ton)
Miscellaneous Hardware 
(metric ton)Ordinary Cable
(metric ton)
Batteries
(PC)









The weight of daily waste 
(metric ton)
4,389
4,706
3,838201520162017Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
(Green Stores
4G The Green Supply ChainChunghwa Telecom is a highly-localized telecom carrier, a generous contributor to community development, and one of the 
most important partners to other telecom carriers around the world. As technologies progressed and improved, we began 
some operations that were outside the conventional telecom boundaries, “corporate social responsibility” concepts were 
introduced into products and services research, development, applications, and into the Company management strategies.
The responsibilities and mission of Chunghwa Telecom, as the leader of the telecom industry are “Green of ICT and Green by 
ICT.” This implies facilitation of the greenness of the ICT industry (Green of ICT) and overall greenness of society through ICT (Green by ICT).
The trend towards greenness in enterprises is propelled by two forces: “market and non-market.” Non-market forces come 
from government regulations, the market forces from supplier management. To co-exist with the environment, businesses must 
implement “green practices” throughout the entire supply chain. Chunghwa Telecom has been implementing such measures 
since 2008, and at the end of 2016, we introduced our proprietary “Green” product label and invited all our suppliers to apply for certification. This made it possible to ensure the use of energy-saving, or green energy products throughout the supply 
chain, from raw materials and production to packaging. In 2017, we were first in the industry to join the “CDP Supply Chain 
Project”  to strengthen, integrate and analyze greenhouse gas emission by suppliers using the CDP platform to ensure carbon management information transparency in the Chunghwa Telecom supply chain.
Future green supply chains will entail more than just supplier commitment to environmental protection and the life cycle of 
green products. Chunghwa Telecom will continue to explore value-added applications of ICT, and introduce robust systems to facilitate better coordination and management, as well as complete monitoring of the supply chain.In addition to developing products that are friendly to the environment, we have been promoting Green Stores and were the 
first telecom carrier in Taiwan to fully turn service centers into Green Stores. Customers are encouraged to purchase green products from our “Chunghwa Telecom Green Stores.” In 2017, green revenue was NT$ 7,795.2 million, which was 3.5% of the 
total revenue. 
We have been promoting the use of electronic billing since 2001 to conserve energy, and reduce carbon emission by 
eliminating the use of paper for bills. In 2017, we offered the “paperless receipt service” to satisfy customer need and also 
contribute to a reduction of global warming. The service saved 568 million sheets of paper and an estimated 51,703 trees, it 
had also reduced carbon emission by 10,237 metric tons by the end of 2017.Green Revenue
Paperless Receipt Service
The Company has had a cross-industry alliance with China Motors since 2016 to promote the “e-Moving electric vehicle/
bicycle” preferential plan at all branches. All Chunghwa Telecom indoor phone or broadband customers can select and 
purchase e-moving products at the direct branches. By 2017 we had sold 1,496 e-moving vehicles and sales performance 
in cross-industry marketing was good.Good Results in Cross-Industry Marketing 
Year 2015 2016 2017
The ratio of customers 
applying for combined bills88% 88% 89%
The ratio of customers 
applying for e-bills18% 18% 19%
The quantity of paper 
saved (1,000 sheets)416,318 434,164 568,730
Reduction of carbon 
emission volume 
 (metric ton)7,494 7,815 10,237Note: 1. From 2017 onwards, the calculation is based 
on the quantity of paper saved and reduction of 
carbon emission by the use of e-bills, combined 
bills and paperless receipts.
2. The elimination of each bill saves 2.5 sheets of
printed A4 paper and an envelope. Total amount of paper saved: 18,957,696 records * 12 months * 2.5 = 568,730 thousand sheets of paper.
3. One sheet of A4 paper generates 18 grams of
CO
2; the amount of carbon emission reduced: 
568,730,000 sheets * 18 grams CO 2 = 10,237 
metric tons CO 2. 
5G Green Procurement
Chunghwa Telecom supports government policy and prepares annual budgets for the purchase of green products that are 
either environmental-certified (less polluting, recyclable, resource-saving or green building material) or self-declared to be of less 
environmental impact throughout the product lifecycle (from raw material to disposal). The Company also actively participates in 
green procurement programs and activities to inspire green purchases amongst others in the industry and the public.
Our goals and policies concerning green procurement 
have been explained in detail in the five-year plan mentioned above. We hope to maintain green purchases 
at more than 5% of the total purchases per year over 
the mid-term, and increase this percentage to more than 50% over the long term.2015 2016 2017
Green procurement total
 (NT$ million)1,525 1,379 1,223
Accounted percentage
of turnover6.55% 5.62% 4.45%
2017 Environmental Performance
Environmental
Information DisclosureshPublished CSR reports and the disclosure of environmental data to respond to the Dow
Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) every year.
hExecution of an annual greenhouse gas inventory and acquisition of ISO 14064-1verification and certifications.
hResponded to the annual Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire.
hResponded to related national rating questionnaires (including Common Wealth andGlobal View Magazines).
Improve Energy
Use EfficiencyhMerged and exploited data center spaces.
hSaved cooling energy: implemented some energy saving with 6,037 HP inverter module,
sensible heat air conditioners of 33,116 RT ,  9,130  highly efficient air conditioners, 2,668
RT ventilation air conditioners and 618 natural ventilation air conditioners by the end of
2017.
hUsed green materials for newly constructed data centers and buildings.
hInstalled solar water heaters in Telecommunications Hostels.
hSet up rainwater, underground, and condensed cooling water recycling systems for thereuse of water resources.
hReplaced lamps in the public areas and internal office buildings with environmentally-friendly LED bulbs.
Implement Green EnergyhConstructed more than 527 kWp of photovoltaic systems by the end of 2017.
hConstructed a total capacity of 17.6 kW wind power plan.
hVoluntarily supported “MOEA’s green energy trial program” by purchasing six million
kWh of green power.
Autonomous
Environmental ProtectionhReplaced old vehicles with environmentally friendly ones, and used electric vehicles intrials.
hSponsored the construction of the YouBike station at the corner of Xinyi Road andHangzhou South Road with a donation of NT$ 1.85 million.
hPromoted clean homes, energy-saving offices, car-free days, and paperless OfficeDocument Automation System (ODAS).
hThe Taiwan Energy Conservation Patrol: focus is on increasing energy efficiency withinsmall and medium enterprises and vulnerable social institutions.
hSet waste reduction and recycling goals.
Value-Added
Products and ServiceshPromoted e-bill with a marketing section.
hElectronic invoicing: invoice data were prepared for permanent cloud storage to savematerial, human resources, and receive preferential tax treatment as an incentive and
exemption from fines by the government.
hiEN smart energy-saving services and promotion of 8 energy-saving products.
hMobile device recycling: recycle bins are available at all service centers in line with the
promotion of waste recycling.
hGreen Stores: Aim to transform 400 service centers nationwide into “Green Stores” in
2018, and sell 3  or more environmentally certified products.
hAssisted suppliers with applications for eco-friendly product labels on their mobilecommunication products: Provided the related necessary information to suppliers for
eco-friendly product labels.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Sustainable Supply Chain
Every year Chunghwa Telecom purchases the software, hardware and services necessary for operations from international and 
domestic suppliers. This includes networking and data equipment, cables, marketing, design and waste disposal services. 
Our enormous purchasing power gives us a profound influence over the supply chain, hence the responsibility to guide our 
suppliers in the fulfillment of their CSR. This is achieved by implementing conduct that complies with the international ESG supply chain regulations to guide the ICT industry towards sustainability. We were the first telecom enterprise in Taiwan to join 
the CDP Supply Chain Project in 2017 when the industry was confronted by the critical issues of global climate change and its 
effect on corporate development. We strive to establish a better connection to the world on our path towards the development of sustainability. 
The Chunghwa Telecom suppliers fall into three categories: 
property, labor and engineering. Apart from professional network communications equipment which is mainly 
purchased overseas, we buy as much from local suppliers 
as possible to promote local economic development. The domestic procurement percentage was 56% in 2017.
We promote corporate social responsibilities on two levels. (1) For new suppliers just starting to learn about corporate social responsibilities, we offer encouragement, 
education and support during their development of the 
proper awareness for CSR. (2) For established suppliers who are fully aware of the need for CSR, we conduct third-
party audits, issue online CSR questionnaires, organize 
conferences, and launch sustainability campaigns as means to engage them in a winning relationship.ESG Management Supply Chain Strategy
Strategy Management Target 2017 Result
Integrate ESG principles into Chunghwa 
Telecom supplier assessmenthComplete  100 % of “tier 1 suppliers”
CSR current status assessment in 2020h87% of suppliers completed the
CSR survey questionnaire
Ensure ESG conduct of the suppliers 
complies with “Code of Corporate 
Social Responsibility for Suppliers of 
Chunghwa Telecom Co Ltd.”hComplete  100 % of “critical tier 1
suppliers” ESG on-site visits and auditsin 2020hCSR on-site visits and audit rate
reached 84.65%
Continue communication activities 
to promote  supplier climate change adaptation measures and emissions 
data managementhComplete 100% of “critical tier 1
s u p p l i e r s ”  c a r b o n  m a n a g e m e n t
knowledge, and education in 2020
hCollect information on climate change
and carbon emission from suppliers at
least once a year.hThe first Taiwan telecom carrier
to participate in the CDP SupplyChain Project
Number of Suppliers Accounted Percentage of Turnover (%)
Tier 1 suppliers  
Critical tier 1 suppliers  
Critical non-tier 1 suppliers  Chunghwa telecom procurement status (%)
Overseas
56%Domestic (local)
44%
2017
Note: Overseas suppliers include “foreign corporations, 
with branch offices in Taiwan and agents.”
Note: 1. Tier 1 suppliers are those that provide products or services directly to Chunghwa Telecom with an annual procurement 
of Ú NT$ 100 thousand.
2. Critical tier 1 suppliers are those that provide products or services directly to Chunghwa Telecom with an annual
procurement of Ú NT$ 50 million.
3. Critical non-tier 1 suppliers are those that provide critical products and services to CHT tier 1 suppliers, but are not
CHT tier 1 suppliers.
Overview of the Supply Chain ESG Management Results 
Item Description2017 
Target2017 
Target2018 
Target
Online Supplier CSR Status 
Questionnaire (%)Require suppliers with purchase amounts of more than NT$ 
5 million to fill in the “Supplier CSR Status Questionnaire,” 
items include:
hCorporate Ethics
hLabor
hEnvironment
hOccupational Health & Safety88% 87%* 88%
CHT’s procurement staff 
subjected to CSR-related 
training (%)Actions have been taken to ensure that all procurement 
personnel understand and comply strictly with “Code of 
Corporate Social Responsibility for Suppliers of Chunghwa 
Telecom Co Ltd.”100% 100% 100%
CHT suppliers bound by 
contracts with CSR-related 
terms (%)All procurement contracts specifically require suppliers to 
comply with “Code of Corporate Social Responsibility for 
Suppliers of Chunghwa Telecom Co Ltd.”100% 100% 100%
Suppliers without violations 
a g a i n s t  e n v i r o n m e n t a l 
protection laws (%)Learn about supplier environmental management practices 
through online questionnaires96% 98% 98%
Supplier CSR AuditsUse supplier CSR Audits to ensure that none of its critical 
suppliers are prone to environmental, forced labor or human 
rights risks.100% 100% 100%
Audits on civil engineering/
cable contractorsA total of 173 audits were conducted on 75 contractors. At the end of 2017, 43 suppliers 
were found to have committed violations. They were fined NT$ 2,202 thousand.
Safety and health on-site 
inspectionsThe Northern and Southern Taiwan Business Groups and the Mobile Business Group all 
have health and safety officers assigned to inspect suppliers on-site at least three times a 
week. Any defects discovered were notified to the relevant departments and followed up for 
improvements. A total of  8,580 inspections were conducted on 563 suppliers in 2017.
Mutual Benefits with Business Partners
Type Description
Rewards top-
performing 
suppliersTo reward top-performing suppliers, Chunghwa Telecom conducted a trial in southern Taiwan, offering 
qualified suppliers the privilege of “tender bond waiver when submitting tenders, as well as a reduction of 
the performance bond to 5% of the value of the contract won.” This was an attempt to exert influence as an 
industry leader and bring more attention to corporate social responsibility.
Training of 
professional 
skillsOur Telecommunication Training Institute has been providing suppliers with relevant training and certification 
courses to satisfy their requirements. Some of the popular courses include: cabling contractor certification, 
telecom line construction quality assurance certification, and fiber optic contractor training. In 2017, the 
institute organized 57 classes and trained 1,483 workers; 912 of whom had obtained certification.We published “Code of Corporate Social Responsibility for Suppliers of Chunghwa Telecom Co Ltd” in 2011, and it clearly 
outlines the Company’s expectations in terms of “business, ethics, labor, environment, safety, and health.” The guidelines apply 
to all suppliers that provide products or services to Chunghwa Telecom or its subsidiaries or joint ventures, and extend to other 
participants of the supply chain to which the supplier is directly or indirectly related. We hope that suppliers will commit to our 
values and take more proactive steps towards maintaining a sustainable business relationship.
Chunghwa Telecom shares resources with suppliers to help them develop R&D capabilities and future technologies. We also 
devote ourselves to the creation of a friendly and innovative environment. We engage suppliers in R&D projects, reward their 
contributions, and make arrangements for the transfer of acquired technology and licenses fairly. Regarding hardware, we 
continue to support the development of telecom facilities and testing environments; in terms of software, we utilize open 
platforms to share our benefits with suppliers.Note: Due to a slight increase (0.2%) in the recovery rate of the 2017 online questionnaire compared to that of 2016, we did 
not reach the target (88%).Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
To promote awareness of CSR and ESG management in supply chain partners, SGS-Taiwan has been subject to tier 1 supplier 
on-site audits since 2010 in accordance with ESG supply chain principles drafted by Chunghwa Telecom. Their existing 
occupational safety and health provisions resulted in an on-site audit rate of 84.65% in 2017. We have undertaken to insist on 
an audit rate of 100% in our critical tier 1 supplier ESG on-site audits so that all our supply chain partners will be in compliance with ESG management requirements before 2023.
After “The Paris Agreement” took effect, we entered an age of low-carbon economy. Chunghwa Telecom is a carrier in the 
information and communications industry, and this is a crucial issue of great urgency. We need to understand and respond to 
the impact of climate change and plan appropriate response strategies and actions at once.
We made Climate Change the main theme of our supplier CSR Interchange Meeting in 2017. We invited a CDP representative 
and people from advanced domestic enterprises with forward-looking carbon management to share how to identify risks and 
opportunities brought by the climate change issue. We also formally activated and announced our membership of the “Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain Project.” We are promoting an understanding of climate change among our suppliers 
and will make every effort to increase their efficiency in carbon management. CHT is putting an encouragement mechanism in 
place that will help suppliers with the research and development of products and services that have less impact on climate and the environment. Our three goals for the supply chain carbon management are:CSR On-Site Audits and Capacity Promotion
The Guidance of Supply Chain Partners in a Response to Climate ChangeCHT Management Indicator Method Ratio
Supplier ESG auditing ratio
per yearOccupational safety and health on-site audits38.27%
Percentage of suppliers assessed 
in ESG in the last 3 yearsSecond party audits+ engineering / Cable auditsCritical tier 1 suppliers: 46.38%Critical tier 1 suppliers + Critical non-tier 1 suppliers 40%
Published “Supplier’s Environment and Human 
Right Guidelines” which 
asked suppliers to follow labor and environment 
regulations.Invited critical suppliers to 
reply to the “Basic Status 
Survey on CSR for Suppliers” 
and held first “CSR Supplier Social Event” to learn about 
supplier CSR compliance.Required that suppliers 
with purchase amounts 
o f  m o r e  t h a n  N T $  5
million have to completethe “Supply CSR Status
Questionnaire.”
Formulated “Basic Status Survey on CSR for Suppliers” 
and formally started “supply chain CSR management” with 
CSR committee approval.
hAnnounced the “Code of Corporate Social
Responsibility for Suppliers of Chunghwa
Telecom Co Ltd.”
hStarted holding “CSR Supplier Social Event
Supplier CSR Interchange Meeting” annually
and the publication of the analysis results ofsupplier CSR compliance.2008 2010 2012
2009 2011Supply Chain CSR Management Increase supplier awareness and knowledge 
of climate changeCollect greenhouse gas 
emission informationCommunicate and encourage changes in the behavior of 
suppliers
C o m m i s s i o n e d 
SGS-Taiwan, a third 
p a r t y  i n s p e c t i o n 
institution, to launch the “Suppliers CSR 
second-party audit.”
hBecame the first telecom service
provider to implement the “Supply
Chain CSR Audit and Assistance.”
hStipulated the “Chunghwa Telecom’s
Operating Guidelines for Qualifying
Material Suppliers” to manage theimplementation of supplier CSR and
ethical business practice.Organized the 
first “Sustainable Environmental Visit.”Established the “Chunghwa Telecom Co Ltd Procurement 
Grievance Procedures” to give 
suppliers the means to raise complaints regarding Chunghwa 
Telecom purchasing activities 
in an open and transparent purchasing environment.
hImplemented the “Suppliers CSR second-
party audit” continuously and held the
“Sustainable Environmental Visit.”
hFormally announced the CDP Supply
Chain Project membership and became
the first domestic telecom carrier toparticipate on the international platform
and once again created a sustainable
value chain milestone.2014
2013 20162015
2017
Chunghwa Telecom was the first industry-leader to promote supply chain ESG management action at a meeting in 2010. 
Regular Interchange meetings have been held every year and by 2017 seven had been held. The 2017 interchange 
meeting was hosted by President Chi-Mau Sheih, and hundreds of important supplier representatives participated. Before 
the meeting began, we formally announced our membership of the CDP Supply Chain Project. We will be using a scientific quantification method to manage supply chain carbon emission in the future and will assist our supply partners to increase 
their carbon management capacity and understand the real risks of carbon emission as well as associated business 
opportunities.2017 Supplier CSR Interchange Meeting
We made climate change the theme of the 2017 Interchange meeting and the invited speakers were: Wan-Yu Song of the CDP 
Supply Chain Project, Qi -Ming Peng, President of WeatherRisk Explore Inc, and Li -Wei Lin a director from AU 
Optronics  Corp.  They  shared  their ideas  with  participating  suppliers  about  how  their  enterprises  had  understood  and 
responded  to the impact  of the climate  change  issue  after  the “Paris  Agreement”  took  effect.  Five  suppliers  received 
commendation during the meeting with respect  to the “Suppliers CSR second-party audit” and the online questionnaire 
“Information Disclosure.” They were: Sercomm Corporation, D-Link Corporation ( TAIWAN), Ta Ya Electric Wire & Cable Co 
Ltd, CTC Union Technologies Co Ltd, and Interactive Digital Technologies Inc. They received  trophies  in appreciation  of 
their cooperation and support. Our supply chain management is about to reach the next phase which is aligned with the 
international low-carbon economy and this will guide the supplier chain towards low-carbon sustainability.
Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Short-Term
Effort to make telecom services more accessible 
by adding locations to the Digital Good Neighbors 
program
Long-Term
Social investment will reach 1% of revenues by 2025TARGETT
The LBG assessment of investment in the 
community
 MANAGEMENTM
h5I SDGs digital inclusion initiative
hTelecommunications universal service
hDigital Good Neighbors
h“Read with You” ÑCommunity Network
Tutoring
ACTIONA
hTraining volunteers for the visually
impaired
hCorporate volunteer action
 RESPONSERSMART-I
Minimize the digital divide and create digital opportunities
STRATEGYS
The Social
Value Guide
The SDGs CHT contributes to in this section
INDICATORI
Social investment: NT$ 1,164,080 thousand
Digital Good Neighbors: 92 locationsGRI
GRI

Chunghwa Telecom “5I SDGs” Initiative
As the pilot of CSR, Chunghwa Telecom has developed its core competence to positively minimize the digital divide and 
devote itself to the creation of digital opportunities. Since 2015, we have chosen to connect with the 2030 Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. Through real action we have demonstrated our determination to develop 
and implement global sustainabilities.
In 2017, we promoted the “5I SDGs” initiative: “I Helping, I Sharing, I Learning, I Programming and I Protecting," as the first 
real initiative in Taiwan that connects Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with the “Digital Country Innovative Economy Development Program” (DIGI Ð) from the Executive Yuan. Expanding partnerships in collaboration with NPO/NGO, helped 
us support the sharing of knowledge and technology resources. This enabled us to create a connection between the underprivileged and other diverse groups in this digital era. Technology allows us to link to the good cycle and realize a win-win situation for digital human rights and an innovative economy at the same time.
Win-win is beneficial to the implementation 
of CSR; beneficial to the digital economy and beneficial to global sustainability 
development by connection with SDGs.
Goal
 Spirit
To construct a digital inclusion society, we 
use ICT technology as an instrument and corporate volunteers as the point to go deep into Taiwan communities to promote and popularize establishments.  We also increase social innovation and information equality through R&D innovation and actual practices as well.
Vision
The “2017 Taipei Marathon” started on December the 17th and attracted more than 10 thousand participants. CHT 
leads the corporate sports culture internally, in order to present its support of the sports industry, we recruited corporate 
volunteers to respond to the event. More than 500 of our employees signed up within a week. After extensive selections 
and draws, we finally selected 50 corporate volunteers to act as support persons to the runners at the Renai-Xinsheng intersection supply depot, which is about five kilometers from the site, and encouraged them with actual practices.
The Chunghwa Telecom Chairman Yu Cheng said: “We are dedicated to promote sports fashion and 
build a healthy enterprise culture. Through the guidance of managers and help from volunteers, we encourage employees to exercise regularly to maintain a sustainable and healthy corporate culture. 
We share our internal successful experience to push popularization of exercise nationwide, and we’ll 
keep recruiting corporate volunteers to improve our social responsibilities. In the future, Chunghwa Telecom will continue to lead corporate volunteers to do more different tasks and help to create a 
happy and healthy Taiwan.”Corporate Volunteer Participation in 2017 Taipei Marathon
Video record 
of the eventUsing service popularization, ICT 
technology R&D and corporate volunteers, we will complete the following goals:
hTo promote and popularize service
establishments and provide accessible
and sufficient service support
hCultivate digital information literacy in
all groups
hR&D or purchase information assistancemeasures for the underprivilegedCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
5I SDGs Corporate Volunteer Actions and Goals
Targets 5ICorporate 
Volunteers Actions
•By 2030, eradicate extreme poverty for all people everywhere, currently measured
as people living on less than $1.25 a day
•By 2030, build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations andreduce their exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events and othereconomic, social and environmental shocks and disastersI Sharing•Economic support in
remote areas
•Sustainable localtraveling
•Ecology tours
•IoT disaster prevention
•By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and
people in vulnerable situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient
food all year round
•By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food
producers, in particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, pastoralists
and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, other productive
resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and opportunities for
value addition and non-farm employmentI Sharing• Economy support inremote areas
•By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents
•By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services,
including for family planning, information and education, and the integration ofreproductive health into national strategies and programmes
•By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardouschemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contaminationI Sharing•Corporate volunteers ofDigital Good Neighbors
promote sex education,
the prevention of
drug abuse, AIDS,
alcoholism, and
reduction of the death
and injury rate of roadaccidents
•By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and qualityprimary and secondary education leading to relevant and effective learningoutcomes
•By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to alllevels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including personswith disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations
•Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitiveand provide safe, non-violent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all
•By 2020, substantially expand globally the number of scholarships availableto developing countries, in particular least developed countries, small islanddeveloping States and African countries, for enrollment in higher education,including vocational training and information and communications technology,technical, engineering and scientific programmes, in developed countries andother developing countries
I Programming
I Learning
I Helping•Online distance tutoring
•PC teaching for thevisually impaired
•Social innovationservice
•Scholarships
•By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water
for all
•By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping an d
minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion o f
untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally
•By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensur e
sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity an d
substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcityI Protecting•Environmentaleducation promotion
•Sewage water re-usage
•Mountains, forests,wetlands and riversadoption near businesslocations
•By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energyservices
•By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energymixI Protecting•Establishment ofRenewable energysourcesTargets 5ICorporate 
Volunteers Actions
•Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financial services
•By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value 
•Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment 
•By 2030, devise and implement policies to promote sustainable tourism that creates jobs and promotes local culture and products 
•By 2020, develop and operationalize a global strategy for youth employment and implement the Global Jobs Pact of the International Labour OrganizationI Protecting•Support of social enterprise 
•Protection of labor rights
•Sustainable local travel
•Volunteer ecology tour guide
•Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional and transborder infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all
•Significantly increase access to information and communications technology and strive to provide universal and affordable access to the Internet in least developed countries by 2020I Sharing•Co-constructed base stations, popularized service applications after the construction of the hardware facility 
•By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income growth of the bottom 40% of the population at a rate higher than the national average
•By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status
•Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies and action in this regardI SharingI Helping•Economy support in remote areas
•Protection of labor rights
•By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport, with special attention to the needs of those in vulnerable situations, women, children, persons with disabilities and older persons
•By 2030, enhance inclusive and sustainable urbanization and capacity for participatory, integrated and sustainable human settlement planning and management in all countries
•Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural heritage
•By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management
•By 2030, provide universal access to safe, inclusive and accessible, green and public spaces, in particular for women and children, older persons and persons with disabilities
•By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and human settlements adopting and implementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and implement, in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, holistic disaster risk management at all levels I Helping•Smart city, smart urban and rural products and services
•Smart navigation
•Aboriginal culture preservation
•IoT and circular economy
•Disaster prevention in cities and communities
•By 2030, halve per capita global food waste at the retail and consumer levels and reduce food losses along production and supply chains, including post-harvest losses
•By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse
•Promote public procurement practices that are sustainable, in accordance with national policies and priorities
•Develop and implement tools to monitor sustainable development impacts for sustainable tourism that creates jobs and promotes local culture and productsI Protecting•Promotion of good environmental habits
•Reduction of office waste 
•Supply chain management
•Sustainable local travel 
•Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries
•Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning I Protecting•Environmental education promotions
•By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollutionI Protecting•Coastal cleanup volunteer
•Sustainable local travel
Targets 5ICorporate 
Volunteers Actions
•By 2030, eradicate extreme poverty for all people everywhere, currently measured 
as people living on less than $1.25 a day
•By 2030, build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their exposure and vulnerability to climate-related extreme events and other economic, social and environmental shocks and disastersI Sharing•Economic support in remote areas
•Sustainable local traveling
•Ecology tours
•IoT disaster prevention
•By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and 
people in vulnerable situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient 
food all year round
•By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food 
producers, in particular women, indigenous peoples, family farmers, pastoralists 
and fishers, including through secure and equal access to land, other productive 
resources and inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and opportunities for 
value addition and non-farm employmentI Sharing•Economy support in remote areas
•By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents
•By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, 
including for family planning, information and education, and the integration of reproductive health into national strategies and programmes
•By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination I Sharing•Corporate volunteers of Digital Good Neighbors promote sex education, the prevention of drug abuse, AIDS, alcoholism, and reduction of the death and injury rate of road accidents
•By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality primary and secondary education leading to relevant and effective learning outcomes
•By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations
•Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive and provide safe, non-violent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all 
•By 2020, substantially expand globally the number of scholarships available to developing countries, in particular least developed countries, small island developing States and African countries, for enrollment in higher education, including vocational training and information and communications technology, technical, engineering and scientific programmes, in developed countries and other developing countries
I Programming
I Learning
I Helping•Online distance tutoring
•PC teaching for the visually impaired
•Social innovation service
•Scholarships
•By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all
•By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally
•By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity
I Protecting•Environmental education promotion
•Sewage water re-usage 
•Mountains, forests, wetlands and rivers adoption near business locations
•By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services
•By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix I Protecting•Establishment of Renewable energy sources Targets 5ICorporate 
Volunteers Actions
•Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent jobcreation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization andgrowth of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, including through access to financialservices
•By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men,including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equalvalue
•Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers,including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment
•By 2030, devise and implement policies to promote sustainable tourism that creates jobs andpromotes local culture and products
•By 2020, develop and operationalize a global strategy for youth employment and implementthe Global Jobs Pact of the International Labour OrganizationI Protecting•Support of socialenterprise
•Protection of laborrights
•Sustainable local travel
•Volunteer ecology tourguide
•Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional andtransborder infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being, with afocus on affordable and equitable access for all
•Significantly increase access to information and communications technology and strive toprovide universal and affordable access to the Internet in least developed countries by 2020I Sharing•Co-constructed basestations, popularizedservice applicationsafter the constructionof the hardware facility
•By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income growth of the bottom 40% of thepopulation at a rate higher than the national average
•By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespectiveof age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status
•Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including by eliminatingdiscriminatory laws, policies and practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies andaction in this regardI SharingI Helping•Economy support inremote areas
•Protection of laborrights
•By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems forall, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport, with special attention to theneeds of those in vulnerable situations, women, children, persons with disabilities and olderpersons
•By 2030, enhance inclusive and sustainable urbanization and capacity for participatory,integrated and sustainable human settlement planning and management in all countries
•Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural heritage
•By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by payingspecial attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management
•By 2030, provide universal access to safe, inclusive and accessible, green and public spaces,in particular for women and children, older persons and persons with disabilities
•By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and human settlements adopting andimplementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, mitigationand adaptation to climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and implement, inline with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, holistic disaster riskmanagement at all levelsI Helping•Smart city, smarturban and ruralproducts and services
•Smart navigation
•Aboriginal culturepreservation
•IoT and circulareconomy
•Disaster prevention incities and communities
•By 2030, halve per capita global food waste at the retail and consumer levels and reducefood losses along production and supply chains, including post-harvest losses
•By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling andreuse
•Promote public procurement practices that are sustainable, in accordance with nationalpolicies and priorities
•Develop and implement tools to monitor sustainable development impacts for sustainabletourism that creates jobs and promotes local culture and productsI Protecting•Promotion of goodenvironmental habits
•Reduction of officewaste
•Supply chainmanagement
•Sustainable local travel
•Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disastersin all countries
•Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climatechange mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warningI Protecting• Environmentaleducation promotions
•By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollutionI Protecting•Coastal cleanupvolunteer
•Sustainable local travelCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Chunghwa Telecom Digital Inclusion Strategy
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation Digital Good Neighbors
hThe Digital Good Neighbors was located in 92 places
which is 1.2 times of growth compared to 2016
The annual investment of telecommunications universal 
service is approximately 8.6 hundred million
hTelephone services for more than 230,000 homes in 85
rural communities in Taiwan.
hData communication service for more than 110,000
households
hMore than 53,000 public telephones installed across 22
counties/cities
hData connection service for more than 500 high
schools, primary schools, and public libraries.
Preferential subsidies for the disadvantaged groups
hCare for 18,112  households of the disadvantaged
groups, with subsidies amounting to NT$ 39,054,000
Equipment support for major events
hBroadband circuit, MOD platform promotion, mobile
base station vehicles, SMS, Wi-Fi AP, temporary data
circuit
hThe coverage rate of the 12Mbps popularization
broadband  service is over 96%Chunghwa Telecom Foundation Click Taiwan
hClick Taiwan: videos totaling more than 2,000  minutes
were recorded and 44 school students went deep into
57 different villages
Hami Software Development Contest 
hThe innovative application challenge has been runningfor nearly 10 years to promote digital development in
Taiwan
PC education/Network tutoring
hRead with You “Community Network Tutoring” hastutored near 2,300  students over 10 years and the
tutorial hours has now reached 76,259
hiPhone usage training courses for the visually impairedwere regularly held and 50 used iPhones were donated
in support of the visually impaired assistance plan
Assistance application development/Employment
hDevelopment of accessible assistance – the AssistanceApp for the Visually Impaired has been downloaded
50,826 times.
hWe established the EYE Social Innovative Call Center
where the visually impaired can become paid service
personnel and earn their own living.
Strategy 1 Minimize the Digital Divide
 Strategy 2 Create Digital Opportunities360 Degree of Digital Inclusion Actions
Chunghwa Telecom focuses its social investment in “minimizing the digital divide” and the “creating of digital opportunities,” 
given the specific nature and the core competence of information and communication in the ICT industry. We also spare 
no effort in the advocacy of “corporate volunteers” to participate in local community services, and proactively assist the 
communities in creating digital opportunities. We promote all aspects of digital inclusion using 360-degree vision.
In 2017 Chunghwa Telecom established 35 sites for accessibility to telecom services in long-term support of a government 
initiative to protect fundamental rights to communications.
Chunghwa Telecom refers to the community investment evaluation mechanism of the LBG (London Benchmark Group), to 
conduct evaluations on the possible community social benefits and business opportunities before an investment is made. 
The quantification of the contribution of social investment allows us to make reasonable resources allocation, while avoiding repetition. It helps the decision-making and promotion of charities as well as future sponsorship.Social Investment Management
Cash Donations
366,075Product or Service Donations 
627,546
Management
Expenditures
167,101Corporate
Volunteer
Services
3,358
Unit: NT$ thousandTotal 
1,164,080 (NT$ thousand)
Percentage of Revenue 0.51 %Hours of Corporate
Volunteer Services 14,201 hours
More “Digital Good Neighbors” >
In 2006, Chunghwa Telecom created the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation with 
the purpose of implementing corporate social responsibility, through long-term 
cultivation of our core competence, to communities and tribes, and the urban fringe, 
as well as areas with a relative lack of resources. The Foundation is a platform 
of resources for connection and the rearrangement of “good” materials shared 
to needed locations. It has become the strength that supports and assists the 
advancement of these local areas.
To minimize the digital divide between cities and counties, the Chunghwa Telecom 
Foundation collectively promotes digital application with local organizations as a 
resource platform. NGOs that have a demand for resources can apply to the “Digital 
Good Neighbors.” The foundation evaluates all local demand for digital resources, 
selects remote tribes that lack resources and provides senior services, child and 
youth education, care for the disadvantaged and new immigrants. This is done in 
close cooperation with local social welfare institutions to minimize the digital divide 
and guarantee basic digital rights to everyone.
The “Chunghwa Telecom Digital Good Neighbors” provides program resources 
according to local need, these include digital training courses, youth volunteer 
events, art and reading activities, CHT Women’s Basketball, industrial assistance, 
recorded video learning and more. Up to the end of 2017, we were cooperating 
with 92 different NGOs and our tracks were all over Taiwan. There were Chunghwa 
Telecom Digital Good Neighbors locations in some really far away places, including 
the Qalang Smangus Tribe, and in surrounding islands.
Although school education includes PC information courses, time is often limited and also not every household has PC 
hardware. We extend learning to many communities through “Digital Good Neighbors” locations and encourage “I Learning” 
and the utilization of digital equipment of “5I SDGs” we support. In 2017, 1,691 hours of training was given to 4,000 persons.The Chunghwa Telecom Foundation ÑThe Digital Good Neighbors
Continuous Promotion of Digital Application and Encourage Utilization of Digital EquipmentMinimizing the Digital Divide
The Presbyterian Church in the Tainan Houbi District has cooperated 
with the foundation in the cultivation of video recording training 
courses for six years. The training starts with basic image making and 
composition and proceeds to storytelling, scriptwriting, interviews and 
filming (video) practice exercises. We have accumulated a collection of 
excellent student material. During the 2017 summer vacation, students 
combined years of learning to jointly create an MV. This was the result 
of comprehensive education in a local area through the auspices of the 
Foundation and encouraged local storytelling through videos. 
In recent years, the demand for tuition in the use of mobile devices by the 
elderly has risen. In 2017, we initiated smartphone courses at the Yong 
le community in Linbian Township, Pingtung County. We started with an 
introduction to the use of a mobile phone and the elderly in the community 
have now learned to use Facebook, Line, image software and karaoke 
software to enrich their daily lives and there is now a considerable amount 
of communication between neighbors. We encourage lifelong learning by the 
elderly through “live and learn.”Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Every community has its own characteristics and we base our development direction on these characteristics and introduce 
different project contents to assist local sustainable development. In 2017, the foundation collaborated with the “Ifkids 
Theatre” in a three-day long community tour of art teaching courses for children to reveal individual learning and artistic 
capacity. The children also took part in dramatic performances that gave them the chance to be part of something that 
would become an unforgettable experience. We also promoted art popularization, and held community reading courses to 
cultivate independent and creative thinking abilities of the children.
To promote local business, the foundation often holds “festive gift” fairs each year and encourage corporate employees and 
departments to purchase products of local businesses. At the end of 2017, we invited six local businesses to hold a festive 
activity of selling local products as souvenirs to support high-quality local businesses.
In addition, we have long been cultivating domestic women basketball players and bring basketball to the community 
and tribes through “CHT Women’s Basketball Team.” To discover and cultivate more domestic potential seeded players in 
basketball, we held “Public Welfare 3 on 3 Basketball Event” around the nation. In 2017, three public welfare competitions 
were held in Taoyuan, Kaohsiung and Penghu with the participation of 548 teams.Cultivation of Local Characteristics and Assistance in Sustainable Development
2017 Social Contribution of the Foundation
Item Digital LearningDigital Good 
NeighborsClick TaiwanSocial 
MarketingCHT Women’s 
Basketball 
TeamAdministrative 
Expense
Unit: NT$ thousand 5,091 6,169 3,000 5,471 22,188 16,369
Most Digital Good Neighbors were at inconvenient locations 
and funds were difficult to raise. Getting performing arts 
groups to come was also very difficult. Through our Art 
Project, we brought the art groups into these communities 
and tribes in 2010 to correct this situation.
To discover and cultivate basketball seeded players, our 
CHT Women’s Basketball Team participates in social 
activities to introduce national champion level players to the 
communities and tribes.
We invited local businesses to attend festive gifts “pre-
order fairs” to adjust to the demand and increase interaction 
between the industry and the consumers by physical sales.
Chunghwa Telecom has long been subsidizing telecom services for the socially disadvantaged, and assuring their access to 
basic communications.Preferential Subsidies for the Disadvantaged Groups
Preferential Plan Preferential Content2017 Preferential 
Amount
(NT$ thousand)2017
Beneficiaries
Public Phone Card 
SubsidyAn NT$ 100 IC public phone card for each disadvantaged local 
telephone applicant. Two IC public phone cards are provided for the 
visually impaired each year1,850 3,594
Caring Series Rate 
Plan (Mobile)hDouble communication hours at the original rate plan for the visually 
impaired, hearing impaired and speech impaired.
h300 free SMS intra-network and 100 free SMS extra-network for the 
hearing and speech impaired. The “intra-network image telephone” 
rate is the same for 3G customers.5,238Average of  
1,450
Broadband 
Preferential Plan 
for Low-income 
Householdsh50% off on 16M/3M, 35M/6M, 60M/20M, 100M/40M and 
100M/40M monthly rate.
h50% off on ADSL 2M/64K&5M / 384K monthly rate.7,197 1,637
4G Mobile Data Plan 
for the Disabled Disabled persons are entitled to an NT$ 200 discount on monthly 
subscriptions when subscribing to the 4G 636 plan and above plus Wi-
Fi hotspots for NT$ 89.25,766 7,925
Broadband 
Preferential Plan for 
the Disabledh5% off on HiNet 16M/3M, 35M/65M, 60M/20M and 100M/40M 
monthly rate.
h15% off on ADSL 5M /384K monthly rate. 5% off for other speed rates.277 671
MOD Caring Project 
and Project for the 
Socially UnfortunatehPlatform charges: A 50% discount (NT$ 45 / month) from the work 
completion date.
hSubscribers of the family premium package, family advance 
package, family advance package B, family high-quality package, 
family special package, family popular package are entitled to 10% 
discount, and the normal rate after the discount period expires.
hThe above projects all apply to the socially unfortunate and the 
caring project has no time limitation, the project for the socially 
unfortunate provides discounts for the first 24 months after the 
work completion date.4,098
(Two years
discount
estimated)Average of
2,811
Healthy Net PlanhHiNet Adult Content Gatekeeper protects children from harmful 
websites such as pornography, violence, suicide, weapons, 
gambling, and drugs. The service in the first year is rendered to low-
income households for free. 28.5 24
Welfare Public 
TelephonehInstalled 110 cm from the floor in public areas for the convenience of the disabled.
hThe keyboard was designed with embossing on the “5” key for the visually impaired, and a voice 
adjustment function (from 3db to 6db) was provided exclusively for people with hearing aids.
hA slot for inserting an IC card is designed on the side of all public telephone sets for the convenience of the 
visually impaired.
Message Relay 
Service for the Hearing 
and Speech ImpairedAll telephone messages will be translated and faxed to the service hotline 0800 – 080885 (Help Me in Chinese 
homonym). The service personnel will then relay the message in voice and return the message to the hearing 
and speech impaired caller (up to 80 words for the relay and up to 30 words for reply). Those who are not 
hearing and speech impaired may also call the hotline (0800-080880) for the relay of messages via fax to the 
hearing and speech impaired. The service hours are 08:00 to 21:00 daily.
Because the 3G concession operation license will be suspended at the end of 2018, our “Mobile Broadband Business 
Operation Plan” has been approved by NCC to ensure 3G customers can have a convenient service after switching to 4G.
To satisfy rights with respect to the suspended 3G business, we will work out an accurate and simple and ethical solution 
for the underprivileged and the elderly. We will allocate suitable mobile phones to assist the original 3G consumers to 
transform smoothly into 4G to ensure their digital equality rights.Seamless Transition to 4G to Ensure Digital EqualityCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
/GGVKPICNNQH[QWYCUCJCRR[CPF
HQTVWPCVGGXGPV+ECTTKGFOGOQTKGU
HGGNKPIUCPFDNGUUKPIYKVJOGYJGP+
YGPVDCEMVQO[QTFKPCT[NKHG;QWCNN
OCFGOGYCPVVQDGCDGVVGTRGTUQP
The Department of Philosophy, Tunghai University,
National Taipei University of Education Department
of Social and Regional DevelopmentThe purpose of this program is to give college students opportunities to understand 
communities, tribes and local cultures. To this end, the foundation cooperated with 
the Department of Radio & Television of National Chengchi University in 2009 in 
“Click Taiwan.” During summer vacations, university students were invited to provide 
services for 15-20 days at various Digital Good Neighbors. They were encouraged 
to apply what they learned “while serving while recording” in the local communities 
and at the same time capture local stories on camera. The “Click Taiwan” encourages 
young adults to make real changes to their lives, to step outside their comfort zone 
and experience different things, to learn about themselves and the environment they 
grew up from a different perspective.
The 2017 9th “Click Taiwan” program received 364 applications from 156 departments 
in 76 universities nationwide. Fifty students were selected to perform services and 
capture stories at 23 Digital Good Neighbors in remote areas. These students came 
from different backgrounds, schools and departments, and had devoted themselves 
to community services by contributing their own specialties. This included the creation 
of stories, games designed for grandparent-grandchild interaction, production 
assistance with video material advertising tribal tours, the promotion of oral hygiene, 
event recording, graffiti art and photography courses. They captured real motivating 
stories with their cameras.
To encourage more youth participation and get a better effect, we held photography 
exhibition excursions through the campuses of different colleges nationwide to share 
theme videos within school courses. In 2017, we held 29 “Click Taiwan” campus 
photography exhibition tours, with the participation of more than 2,300 students. They 
were all encouraged to return to their hometowns to serve their local communities.Chunghwa Telecom Foundation ÑClick TaiwanBy utilizing our expertise in telecom technology, we will ensure that everyone shares the advantage of technology despite 
financial or social standing, or geographical location. In this way we hope to quickly achieve the objective of minimizing the 
digital divide and creating digital opportunity. In addition to previously described action plans and subsidy, different from those 
of other enterprises, we also contributed resources to developing related products and services to meet the needs of the 
disabled and allow them to realize their right of access to the digital technology universe.The Creation of Digital Opportunities
More “Click Taiwan” >
6QFGUETKDGO[FC[UCV-QWJW6QYPUJKR
+YQWNFTCVJGTUC[VGCEJWUJQYVQNKXGC
DGVVGTNKHGVJCPňUGTXKPIYJKNGTGEQTFKPIŉ
VQFGUETKDGVJGň%NKEM6CKYCPŉ
Department of Advertising,
National Chengchi University
6JGFC[UEJGOGKPURKTGFO[
RCUUKQPHQTNKHGEWTKQUKV[CDQWVQWT
NCPFVJGURKTKVQHTGURGEVCPFVJG
PGGFVQEJGTKUJVJGGCTVJCPFVJG
RGQRNG
National Taipei University Department of Social 
Work, National Pingtung University of Science and 
Technology Department of Business Administration
Chunghwa Telecom has supported education and shown its concern for rural villages ever since 2009, in the aftermath of 
Typhoon Morakot. We extended our services to the permanent settlements and newly developed communities in the disaster 
zones. Using visual Internet technology, we delivered educational resources in the form of private tutorship in rural villages 
for the unfortunate. We hope to give the children of the next generation a learning environment which is “safe, dignified, and 
hopeful.”PC Education/Network Tutoring
GoalBy 2022, we hope to:
hAssist 2,900  in the remote areas students with network tutoring
hAccumulate more than 4,500 volunteers to participate in network tutoring
hAccumulate more than 100,000  volunteer hours for network tutoring and training
CharacteristicOnline education by university students helps pupils of junior high schools and primary schools in the rural 
villages to enhance their learning and provides equal learning opportunities.
MethodTo realize the spirit of stakeholder engagement, we have cooperated with the Center of Care Services for 
Rural Area Education in Taiwan, and the Fu Jen Catholic University, in online education. University students 
helped the cause with one-on-one tutoring to take care of the school children in the rural villages and 
disaster zones.
ParticipantPingtung Feng Lin Church, Pingtung Chao Chou Boys Town, the Taitung Kaulahan Association, Taitung 
Chinese Love & Joy Charity Association, Taitung Fukid Tribe, Kaohsiung Yuanfu Community, the Tainan 
Yellow Ribbon Network Association, Chiayi Fu Jen High School, the Orchid Island and Matzu High Schools.
Major ResulthUniversity students helped the cause with one-on-one individual tutoring of the school children in rural 
villages. They also took care of their need for personal communication and interaction.
hTen years of effort by e-Tutor partners has helped several dozen students gain admission to national and 
private universities, including the National Yang Ming University and Taipei Medical University. Assistance 
to remote villages has really reduced the divide between the cities and counties and radically improved 
the opportunities available to the children.
Tutorship 
on Summer and 
Winter Classes
1,721
Tutorial
Hours
76,259
Tutorship
at University 
Level
3,587
Tutorship at 
Primary School 
Level
2,292Note:
The data period 
started from 
December 2009 to 
February 2018.Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
We take advantage of corporate information and communication resources to support the visually impaired. In 2017, we 
collaborated with the Taiwan Telecommunications Industry Development Association to respond to the Suang Lien Foundation 
promotion of “Secondhand iPhones For the Visually Impaired Assistance Plan.” In addition to a donation of 50 used phones 
with Senao International, we also provided a free Wi-Fi training classroom for the “iPhone Course for the Visually Impaired” to 
ensure them the same opportunities and basic communications rights as others.
The Chunghwa Telecom corporate volunteer assistance plan entered its third stage in 2017. The corporate volunteers reset all 
the collected iPhones to “factory setting” status, each visually impaired persons who had completed the training was given an 
iPhone.
“Senior Citizens App” was the first application developed by Chunghwa Telecom and the Institute for Information 
Industry that addresses the needs of the elderly. The App has several useful features including: phone assistance, 
a contact list, caller announcement, weather inquiry, health reminder, emergency contact, photo sharing, and 
video streaming. This App will make Smartphones and Tablets more user-friendly for older people and further 
minimize the digital divide.We believe “humanity to be the foundation of technology innovation.” In 2013, we launched a “Voice-based 
Personal Assistance App” that was specifically designed for the visually impaired. The App incorporates image, 
voice, reading, and lifestyle functions to assist both visually impaired and elders to face some of their difficulties. 
By the end of 2017, the App had been downloaded 50,826 times. It is one of the most convenient and useful 
personal assistants available.I Helping ÑCorporate Volunteers Training
The Senior Citizens AppAssistance Application Development/Employment
The video broadcast function that enables senior 
citizens to enjoy classical music over 4G has been 
completed. This service has been used about 4,000 
times and the App had been downloaded 9,576 
times by the end of 2017.
Completion of an iOS version of the Senior Assistant 
App will include a push notification function to 
remind users of video broadcasts, news, software 
updates, self-development and health information.Results Achieved
Future TargetChunghwa Telecom has engaged in long-term cooperation with the Resource Center for the Visually Impaired at Tamkang 
University for more than 30 years and the EYE Social Innovative Call Center was set up in 2011. This joint effort led to the 
unveiling of the first “Total Solution” in Taiwan. This includes research and development of a computer-assisted telephone 
system, the improvement and the training and supervision of talent and the development of skill in customer phone service 
personnel who respond to the needs of the visually impaired.
In 2015, the Company completed an upgrade to the Taipei City 1999 hotline, making it user-friendly to the visually 
impaired. This upgrade included: a real-time notification system, a three-way call feature with voice recording, English/
Japanese services, a verbal abuse referral feature, a call duration reminder, a health regulation inquiry feature, and a quick 
link to service sub-categories. These upgrades greatly improved the scope and efficiency of the service.
By the end of 2017, the “Total Solution” had provided eight working opportunities for the satisfaction surveyors of 
Chunghwa Telecom (including one visually impaired manager), who are responsible for the production of about 5,000 
valid questionnaires each month. There were another fifteen customer service personnel (12 visually impaired and 3 
supervisors) for the Taipei City 1999 hotline. They process an average of 16,055 calls each month.
We initiated new employment opportunities for persons with spinal injuries. Two with severe injury serve as 4G visual 
assistance service persons. They assist with image identification for the visually impaired through the 4G cloud services. 
This helps promote their quality of daily life and independence while providing employment opportunities for the severely 
disabled.
The automated voice system for donations developed by Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories has proved to be helpful for 
charities, social welfare, cultural, educational, and environmental protection institutions. It gives donors a more convenient 
means of donation. A donor simply needs to pick up their cell phones, dial the number, and follow the voice prompts to 
contribute care to those in need.
In 2013, the Company introduced a QR code-based mobile payment service that allows users to make donations by simply 
scanning the appropriate QR Code. This makes public welfare donation more intelligent. The feature enables funds to be raised 
through other channels, in addition to those at convenience stores and websites.EYE Social Innovative Call Center Creates Employment Opportunities for the Visually Impaired
Automated Voice Donations
QR Code-Charity Donations
Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation

Public Policy 
Participation
The SDGs CHT
contributions to
in this section
In 2017, Chunghwa Telecom donated about NT$ 440 million  in the participation of public policy items including joining national 
and international associations, supporting government popularization services and constructions and developing its prospective 
industries.
We have joined almost 100 associations and groups to upgrade its technology and stimulate the development of the industry 
through exchange and cooperation within the industry or across different industries. The key associations we joined are as follows:
Name of Association Description Qualification
The Chinese Institute of 
Electrical EngineeringPresenting opinions on the telecom policies of the government through 
the telecom symposium held by the institute, and we sponsor the 
activities of the institute to support the industries.Member
Taiwan Intelligent 
Aerotropolis AssociationChunghwa Telecom leads the planning and operation of the association 
to develop new business opportunities and the industrial prowess of 
Taiwan, and develops the kind of skills needed for exporting solutions 
around the world.Member
Taiwan Telecommunication 
Industry Development 
AssociationThe platform serves for interchange among the industry peers. With 
collective consultation and discussion on important issues, this 
association plays a role as the bridge between the industry and the 
competent authority. A mobile communications construction group has 
been established to discuss items such as the co-construction of base 
stations, shared stations or antenna port preservation.Member
Chinese International 
Economic Cooperation 
AssociationWe are invited to deliver addresses on special topics and assist in 
the promotion of international exchange and business joint venture. 
We cooperate in product distribution to promote business and media 
exposure at conferences held in Taiwan.Member
TCCDA (Taiwan Customer 
Service Center Development 
Association)Organizes frequent seminars and introduces the latest customer service 
system techniques, operation management, and the concept of service 
and business innovation. This is helpful to Chunghwa Telecom for the 
improvement of management and customer service.Member
Pacific Telecommunications 
Council (PTC)Contact with worldwide telecom corporations at regular intervals for 
business deals in nearby locations. This provides substantial results in 
overseas business expansion.Member
Business Council for 
Sustainable Development of 
Taiwan (BCSD-Taiwan) Good for the review of sustainable corporate development strategy and 
the introduction of related management tools. Controls the dynamics of 
the international development of CSR issues and is helpful with other-
than financial performance information disclosure.Member
Cloud Computing & IoT 
Association in TaiwanHelps to get a grip on the information of the government cloud and 
business opportunity and consultation with the government on the 
cloud industry through the association. In addition, it also increases 
international and cross-strait interaction opportunities Member
Taiwan Electromagnetic 
Industry-Academia 
ConsortiumThe research consortium organized by the university faculties specializes 
in electromagnetics across Taiwan and has strong potential for the 
research and development of 4G/5G wireless technology.MemberCorporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Public Policy Participation 1- TIAA 2017 Foresight, Innovation, Intelligent Aerotropolis Forum
Public Policy Participation 2 ÑPaying Attention to Communications Convergence DevelopmentIn accordance with the government decision to implement the “Taoyuan Aerotropolis Plan,” we invited 70 international 
and national leaders, representing the Intelligent Aerotropolis industrial ecosystem, to establish the “Taiwan Intelligent 
Aerotropolis Association (TIAA).” Having envisioned “Forge a city of smart logistics and of industrial advance 
technologies,” the TIAA exists to offer insightful advice for the development of the Taoyuan Aerotropolis.
TIAA had already completed a proposal for “Regulatory Guidelines for Establishing Taiwan as the Asia Silicon Valley” and 
made policy recommendations about its realization. Representatives from the Executive Yuan Technology Report Office 
and Taoyuan City Government were invited to the forum for a briefing on the TIAA recommendation, so that the industry 
participants, government officials and the academia could achieve consensus about the “Asian Silicon Valley.” In addition, 
TTIA collaborated with the Taoyuan City Government to hold the “Foresight, Innovation, Intelligent Aerotropolis Forum” in 
2017, which attracted more than 300 government officials and academics.
Chunghwa Telecom operations are very closely linked to changes in government policies or regulations. The Company 
is in regular contact with government agencies and authorities to ensure they are informed about any possible 
changes in important policies and regulations. The most important is concern about ICT industry competitiveness and 
“Communications Convergence Plans.”
The National Communications Commission (NCC) announced new policy guidelines in August 2016 that include the 
adjustment and re-drafting of the existing regulatory framework for digital convergence. In April 2017, the NCC passed 
drafts of the “Telecommunications Management Act” and the “Digital Communication Act” and reported to the Executive 
Yuan for deliberation. The Executive Yuan passed the two drafts in November and submitted them to the Legislative Yuan. 
The drafts are now being examined by the Transportation Committee of the Legislative Yuan. Chunghwa Telecom will keep 
monitoring the situation concerning these amendments and express an opinion when appropriate.Taiwan Intelligent Aerotropolis Association: http://www.tiaa.com.tw/
Public Policy Participation 3 ÑSupporting Development of the Gaming Industry
Public Policy Participation 4 ÑLive Broadcast from the Legislative Yuan on the MOD PlatformChunghwa Telecom supports the government in the development of the gaming 
industry and supported the really big gaming competition in 2017. In addition 
to arranging HiNet high-speed broadband at the semi-finals and the finale in six 
municipalities, we also broadcast the competition through the Internet and live 
broadcast platform.
We will continue to connect the resources of game-related industrial chains 
through our strength in communications and firmly support Taiwan gamers and 
potential gamers in building a high-quality gaming environment. In addition 
to driving the growth momentum of the Taiwan gaming industry, we also fully 
support our local gamers.
Chunghwa Telecom has the biggest audio-visual platform MOD in Taiwan that provides abundant visual content and a 
strong public information communication function, This indirectly promotes information transparency in Parliamentary 
procedures and helps to achieve the government goal of transparency.
The Legislative Yuan completed the establishment of a live broadcast facility in February 2017. It can broadcast directly 
through the Chunghwa Telecom MOD, cable and wireless television and the IVOD parliamentary procedures broadcast 
system. Current figures show an audience of 16 million people watch Congress through the exclusive 123 and 124 
channels, The parliamentary procedures broadcast system not only covers the Legislative Yuan meetings but records and 
broadcasts committee meetings and consultations amongst political parties. MOD also has a watch on-demand function 
to play past proceedings. The general public can check the situation in Congress and watch the development of Laws 
through the Internet at any time.
Corporate 
OverviewSustainability Value 
StrategyMaterial Topics 
and ImpactSustainability Risks 
and OpportunitiesThe Creation of 
Sustainable ValuePublic Policy 
Participation
Public Policy Participation 5 – Sponsoring the Taiwan Lantern Festival for 20 Consecutive Years
Chunghwa Telecom has been sponsoring the main Taiwan Lantern 
Festival for 20 consecutive years. Since 1999 we have continued to 
light up the hearts of the people of Taiwan.
In 2017, the main lantern of the Taiwan Lantern Festival was 
designed to demonstrate three main themes of “Friendliness to 
the Earth,” “Cultural Diversity ”and “Indigenous Hometown.” The 
spirit of the festival was extended to sub-themes such as “LOHAS 
Sustainability.” We also reinforced the 4G quality all around Taiwan 
during the festival. 
We listen and care about the demands of our stakeholders. We 
arranged for services at all the 12 different festival locations around 
Taiwan and the network equipment was monitored by Chunghwa 
Telecom engineers throughout the event. Through the widest range 
of mobile networks, the largest number of base stations and the 
maximum 4G bandwidth, the public can take pictures, check in and 
share information more smoothly.
Public Policy Participation 6 ÑSupport Equipment for Major Events
Chunghwa Telecom has been supporting major sports events and competitions in Taiwan for a long time. We provide 
flawless communication equipment and digital services and spare no effort in providing the highest level of service. In 
2017, we sponsored the Summer Universiade with the social participation amount of NT$ 100 million. We’ve achieved 
the following:
Planned the network construction and transmission for 80 different event locations in Taipei, New Taipei, Taoyuan 
and Hsinchu.
Deployed more than 400 circuits and mobilized more than 2,500 technicians and engineers.
Constructed international and national network system for media filing and exclusive optical fibers and VPN network 
for the competition broadcast.
During the Taipei 2017 Universiade, the IDC cloud information center at Banqiao operated for 24 hours without 
a break and provided excellent quality, security, information protection and monitoring to ensure network and 
information safety.
ᇜ፨ۆࡡ
Indicator 2015 2016 2017
Economic 
ContributionEarnings per share 5.52 5.16 5.01
Capital expenditure (NT$ 100 million) 250.8 235.2 268.8
Proportion of local procurement (%) 71 49 56
Human
CapitalTotal number of employees (person) 23,141 22,654 22.406
Female employee ratio (%) 28.25 28.47 28.43
Female executive ratio (%) 25.16 25.41 25.86
Average employee training hours (hours) 47 46 43
Energy 
consumptionTotal energy consumption (MWh) 142,092 140,438 136,269
Total energy consumption (GJ) 5,115,312 5,055,768 4,905,684
Renewable 
EnergySolar Power Stations Capacity (kWp) 214 419 527
Greenhouse 
GasesTotal emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) (t-CO 2e) 834,745.37 839,172.07 832,977.46
Scope 1 emissions
(t-CO 2e)26,994.30 27,345.62 30,873.98
Scope 2 emissions
(t-CO 2e)807,750.98 811,862.45 802,113.48
Scope 3 emissions
(kg-CO 2e)263,495 240,879 267,133
WasteGeneral waste (metric tons) 3,838 4,706 4,389
Recycling lead storage battery (piece) 32,311 21,781 32,264
WaterTotal water consumption (metric tons) 2,473,493 2,479,621 2,519,057
Recycled water (metric tons) 4,211 14,087 7,614
Social
InvestmentTotal amount of social investment
(NT$ thousand)910,230 1,038,431 1,164,080
Corporate volunteer service hours (hours) 36,049 13,436 14,201
Telecom fee concessions for disadvantaged group 
(NT$ thousand)35,192 33,435 39,054CSR Performance Overview
 
GP5008 Issue 5    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SGS TAIWAN LTD. ’S REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES IN THE 
CHUNGHWA TELECOM  CO., LTD.’s CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  
REPORT  FOR 2017  
 
NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION  
SGS Taiwan Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as SGS) was commissioned by Chunghwa Telecom  CO., LTD.  
(hereinafter referred to as CHT) to conduct an independent assurance of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report for 201 7 (hereinafter referred to as CSR Report) . The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS 
Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the text, and data in accompanying tables, contained in 
this report.  
 
The information in the CHT’s CSR Report of 201 7 and its presentation are the responsibility of the management 
of CHT. SGS  has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in CHT’s CSR Report of 
2017. 
 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, dat a, graphs and statements within the scope of 
verification with the intention to inform all CHT’s stakeholders.  
 
The SGS protocols are based upon internationally recognized guidance, including the Principles contained 
within the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards ) 101: Foundation 2016  
for accuracy and reliability and the guidance on levels of assurance contained within the AA1000 series of 
standards and guidance for Assurance Providers.  
 
This report has been assured using our protocols for : 
• evaluation of content veracity  at a high level of scrutiny  for CHT and moderate  level of scrutiny for 
subsidiaries, joint ventures , and applicable aspect boundaries outside of the organ ization covered by 
this report ; 
• AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Type 2  evaluation of the report content and supporting 
management systems against the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008) ; and 
• evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards  
(2016) 
• evaluation of the report against the IIRC International <IR> Framework (Chinese version 2015) 
requirements for content elements.  
 
The assurance comprised a combination of pre -assurance research, interviews with relevant employees , 
superintendents, CSR committee members and the senior management  in Taiwan ; documentation and record 
review and validation with external bodies and/or stak eholders where relevant. Financial data drawn directly 
from independently audited financial accounts has not been checked back to source as part of this assurance 
process.  
 
STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE  
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 
140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, 
environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report 
ASSURANCE STATEMENT  Assurance Statement
 
GP5008 Issue 5  assurance. SGS  affirm our independence from CHT, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the 
organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders.  
 
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this 
assignment, and comprised auditors registered with ISO 26000, ISO 20121, ISO 50001, SA8000, EICC, QMS, 
EMS, SMS, GPMS, CFP, WFP, GHG Verification and GHG Validation Lead Auditors and experience on the 
SRA Assurance service provisions.  
 
VERIFICATION/ ASSURANCE OPINION  
On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, we are satisfied that the 
information and data contained within CHT’s CSR Report of 201 7 verified is accurate, reliable and provides a 
fair and balanced representation of CHT sustainability activities in 01/01/201 7 to 12/31/201 7. 
 
The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Reporting Organisation’s 
Stakeholders. We believe that the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in 
their reporting.  In our opinion, the contents of the report meet the requirements of GRI Standards in accordance 
with Core Option  and AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Type 2, High level assurance . The report also 
appropriately responds to the content elements requirements of The IIRC International <IR> Framework.  
 
AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES (2008)  CONC LUSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  
 
Inclusivity  
CHT has demonstrated a great  commitment to stakeholder inclusivity and stakeholder engagement. A variety of 
engagement efforts such as survey and communication to employees, customers, investors, suppliers, CSR 
experts, and other stakeholders are implemented to underpin the organizat ion's understanding of stakeholder 
concerns.  
Materiality  
CHT has established effective processes for determining issues that are material to the business. Formal 
review has identified stakeholders and those issues that are material to each group and the r eport addresses 
these at an appropriate level to reflect their importance and priority to these stakeholders.  
Responsiveness  
The report includes coverage given to stakeholder engagement and channels for stakeholder feedback.  
 
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE RE PORTING STANDARD S (2016) CONC LUSIONS, FINDINGS AND 
RECOMMENDATIONS  
 
The report, CHT’s CSR Report of 201 7, is adequately in line with the GRI Standards in accordance with Core 
Option. The material topics  and their boundaries within and outside of the organization are properly defined in 
accordance with GRI’s Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Disclosures of identified material 
topic s and boundaries, and stakeholder engagement, GRI 102 -40 to  GRI 102 -47, are correctly located in 
content index and report.  
 
 
Signed:  
For and on behalf of SGS Taiwan Ltd.  
 
 
 
 
David Huang , Director  
Taipei, Taiwan  
13 June, 2018  
WWW.SGS.COM  
The Management Approach and Its ComponentsGRI Standards Index
Material Topic How We Manage the Topic
Economic 
PerformanceWe have a robust corporate governance system that involves independent directors and supervisors. The Audit
Committee, the Strategy Committee and the Audit Department have been established for effective control of
operating costs and business direction.
Anti-
CorruptionTo ensure that all employees can conduct business activities with the highest ethical standard, we have
implemented the “Business Integrity Principles,” the “Behavior Guidelines,” and the “Integrity Procedures
and Behavior Guidelines” that outline the ethics and responsibilities that employees are bound to obey in
all commercial conducts. Furthermore, we actively convey to employees about the Company’s culture or its
ethical policies.Anti-competitive 
Behavior
Environmental 
ComplianceWe have created an “Environmental Sustainability Team” under the “CSR Committee” that specializes in
determining short, medium and long-term environmental goals. The team exists to make sure that issues such
as energy conservation, carbon reduction, and environmental protection are addressed in the Company’s
operational plans, and to outline codes of conduct, manuals, green energy standards and greenhouse gas
reduction targets.
EmploymentCHT treats employees as its most important partners, and is committed to providing employees the utmost
“assurance.” For best protection of employees’ work rights, Chunghwa Telecom has signed the “employment
contracts” with individual employees and notifies them of changes regarding employment under the Labor
Standards Act. Furthermore, we exploit various communication channels including seminars and labor 
management
meetings to maintain a harmonious and mutually beneficial working relationship.
Customer Health 
and SafetyAll products and services of Chunghwa Telecom are offered with user instructions that describe product nature
and applicable information. Impacts of excessive usage have been taken into consideration during the design
phase and gentle reminders are given at the time of the sale.
Marketing and 
LabelingIn addition to providing relevant information and usage descriptions on all products and services offered, we
also have a “Marketing Policy” in place to ensure that business activities are carried out in compliance with
the authority’s rules and requirements. Compliance with such policy constitutes part of senior managers’
performance appraisal.
Customer PrivacyWe have a Personal Information Protection Task Force created under the Information Strategy Committee; its
duties are to execute the Committee’s policies and perform personal information risk assessments monthly. All
key business activities that are have prone to information risks have been audited and certified by a third party.
Socioeconomic 
ComplianceDecent management and compliance with the law is the foundation of our operations, to ensure that all operations 
are carried out in accordance with social and economic standards, Chunghwa Telecom and its institutions all 
operate in accordance with business-related regulations.
Material Topic How We Manage the TopicPurpose of the
Management ApproachPolicyGoal & Target
(Page Number)Grievance
Mechanism
Economic 
PerformanceWe have a robust corporate governance system that involves independent directors and supervisors. The Audit
Committee, the Strategy Committee and the Audit Department have been established for effective control of
operating costs and business direction.To ensure that the Company’s operations 
conform to the requirements of the 
government and supervising authorities, 
and that shareholders’ and stakeholders’ 
interests are protected.“Business Integrity Principles,” “Behavioral 
Guidelines,” “Corporate Governance 
Principles”hShareholder 
hotline:  
2394-1845
hInvestor hotline:  
23445488
Anti-
CorruptionTo ensure that all employees can conduct business activities with the highest ethical standard, we have
implemented the “Business Integrity Principles,” the “Behavior Guidelines,” and the “Integrity Procedures
and Behavior Guidelines” that outline the ethics and responsibilities that employees are bound to obey in
all commercial conducts. Furthermore, we actively convey to employees about the Company’s culture or its
ethical policies.To effectively manage and ensure that 
all operating activities are compliant with 
commercial, marketing, and integrity 
principles, and to eliminate corruption.“Business Integrity Principles,”
“Behavior Guidelines,” “Corporate
Governance Principles”hComplaint 
Investigation 
Committee
hGrievance hotline:  
0800-080998 Anti-competitive 
Behavior
Environmental 
ComplianceWe have created an “Environmental Sustainability Team” under the “CSR Committee” that specializes in
determining short, medium and long-term environmental goals. The team exists to make sure that issues such
as energy conservation, carbon reduction, and environmental protection are addressed in the Company’s
operational plans, and to outline codes of conduct, manuals, green energy standards and greenhouse gas
reduction targets.To ensure that the Company’s operations 
are free from violations of environmental 
regulations.  
EmploymentCHT treats employees as its most important partners, and is committed to providing employees the utmost
“assurance.” For best protection of employees’ work rights, Chunghwa Telecom has signed the “employment
contracts” with individual employees and notifies them of changes regarding employment under the Labor
Standards Act. Furthermore, we exploit various communication channels including seminars and labor 
management
meetings to maintain a harmonious and mutually beneficial working relationship.To ensure that employees’ employment
and work rights are protected.“Employment Contract,” 
“Business Integrity Principles,”
“Behavior Guidelines,” “Corporate
Governance Principles”hComplaint 
Investigation 
Committee
hGrievance hotline:  
0800-080998
Customer Health 
and SafetyAll products and services of Chunghwa Telecom are offered with user instructions that describe product nature
and applicable information. Impacts of excessive usage have been taken into consideration during the design
phase and gentle reminders are given at the time of the sale.To ensure that the products and services 
offered do not pose any health and safety 
risk to consumers.“Distribution Sales Aid Management
Guidelines, ” “Distribution Sales Aid
Management Policy,” “Marketing Policy”hTelecom service 
center:  
0800-080-123
Marketing and 
LabelingIn addition to providing relevant information and usage descriptions on all products and services offered, we
also have a “Marketing Policy” in place to ensure that business activities are carried out in compliance with
the authority’s rules and requirements. Compliance with such policy constitutes part of senior managers’
performance appraisal.To protect consumers’ rights to information 
and ensure the clarity and transparency of 
marketing information.“Distribution Sales Aid Management
Guidelines,” “Distribution Sales Aid
Management Policy,” “Marketing
Policy”hTelecom service 
center:  
0800-080-123
Customer PrivacyWe have a Personal Information Protection Task Force created under the Information Strategy Committee; its
duties are to execute the Committee’s policies and perform personal information risk assessments monthly. All
key business activities that are have prone to information risks have been audited and certified by a third party.To ensure that customers’ personal 
information is strictly protected.“Customer Personal Information Gathering 
Advice Clause,”
“Information Security Policy,”
“Information Security Management Policy 
and Implementation Rules”hTelecom service 
center:  
0800-080-123
Socioeconomic 
ComplianceDecent management and compliance with the law is the foundation of our operations, to ensure that all operations 
are carried out in accordance with social and economic standards, Chunghwa Telecom and its institutions all 
operate in accordance with business-related regulations.To ensure that the Company’s operations
are free from violations of environmental
regulations.“Business Integrity Principles,”
“Behavioral Guidelines,” “Corporate
Governance Principles,” “Distribution Sales 
Aid Management
Guidelines,” “Distribution Sales Aid
Management Policy,” “Marketing
P o l i c y , ”  N C C ’ s  “ R e g u l a t i o n s  f o r 
Administration of Base Stations of Mobile
Communications Network Businesses”hComplaint 
Investigation 
Committee
hGrievance hotline:  
0800-080998
Evaluation of the Management Approach
GRI 103 
Management 
ApproachDisclosure Item Page Number
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 6-9, 114-115
103-2 The management approach and its components 114-115
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 116Material Topic Mechanism for EvaluationResult of the 
Evaluation
(Page 
Number)Adjustment
Economic 
PerformanceIndependent directors, supervisor system, internal audit 
and evaluation by the relevant authority16 None
Anti-corruptionInternal audit, communication/grievance system 
(including hotlines, emails, and specialized departments), 
annual online tests, TWSE corporate governance 
evaluation17 None
Anti-competitive
BehaviorInternal audit, communication/grievance system 
(including hotlines, emails, and specialized departments), 
annual online tests, TWSE corporate governance 
evaluation17 None
Environmental
ComplianceCorporate Governance Evaluation 82 None
Labor/Management 
RelationsTWSE Corporate Governance Evaluation, Employment 
Contract55 None
Customer
Health and SafetyTWSE Corporate Governance Evaluation, NCC’s 
“Regulations for Administration of Base Stations of 
Mobile
Communications Network Businesses”72 None
Marketing
and LabelingNCC’s telecommunication service quality survey,
communication/consumer complaint report72 None
Customer
PrivacyGrievance system, system certification (ISO 27001, BS 
10012), internal auditor certification, TWSE corporate 
governance evaluation74 None
Socioeconomic 
ComplianceTWSE Corporate Governance Evaluation, NCC’s 
telecommunication service quality survey,
communication/consumer complaint report72 None
General Disclosures
Changes in 
ReportingDisclosure ItemPage Number/
URL and CommentIdentified Omission
and Explanation External 
Assurance
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Chunghwa Telecom v
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 7-9 v
102-3 Location of headquarters 7 v
102-4 Location of operations 7 v
102-5 Ownership and legal form 7 v
102-6 Markets served 7 v
102-7 Scale of the organization 16 v
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 56-57 v
102-9 Supply chain 12-13 v
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain None v
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 36-45 v
102-12 External initiatives 17,95-97 v
102-13 Membership of associations 107-110 v
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 v
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 17 v
Governance
102-18 Governance structures 14 v
Stakeholder Engagement 
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 32-33 v
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 58 v
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 32-33 v
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 32-35 v
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 32-35 v
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statementsPlease refer to CHT’s 
2017 Annual Report p.127v
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 28 v
102-47 List of material topics 30 v
102-48 Restatements of information None v
102-49 Changes in reporting None v
102-50 Reporting period 2017/1/1-2017/12/31 v
102-51 Date of most recent report 2017/8/31 v
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual v
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 1 v
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core v
102-55 GRI content index 114 v
102-56 External assurance 112-113 v
Topic-specific 
DisclosureDisclosure ItemPage Number/
URL and CommentIdentified Omission 
and ExplanationExternal 
Assurance
201 Economic Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16 v
201-3 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 67 v
*202 Market Presence
202-1Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared 
to local minimum wage55 v
205 Anti-corruption 
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken None v
206 Anti-competitive Behavior
206-1  Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices None v
*302 Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 85 v
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 84-89 v
302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 41,84-89 v
*305 Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 42 v
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 42 v
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 42 v
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 40-43 v
307 Environmental Compliance 
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations None v
*401 Employment 
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 57 v
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 
part-time employees 65-67 v
401-3 Parental leave 67 vTopic-specific Disclosures
Note: Topics marked with * have been disclosed voluntarily, and are not part of the material topics identified in 2017. 402 Labor/Management Relations 
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 58 v
*403 Occupational Health and Safety 
403-1Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety 
committees 62 v
403-2Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases,
lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 64 v
403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions https://goo.gl/hiH48K
Health and safety 
topics make up 6.5% of 
trade unions.v
*405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 14,58 v
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 56 v
*407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
407-1Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may be at riskNone v
*409 Forced or Compulsory Labor
409-1Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 
laborNone v
416 Customer Health and Safety 
416-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 
products and services None v
417 Marketing and Labeling 
417-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and 
labelingNone v
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications None v
418 Customer Privacy 
418-1Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses 
of customer data 74 v
419 Socioeconomic Compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 80 vTopic-specific 
DisclosureDisclosure ItemPage Number/
URL and CommentIdentified Omission 
and ExplanationExternal 
Assurance
Telecommunication Sector Specific Indicators
DMA and 
IndicatorsDisclosure ItemPage Number 
and CommentIdentified 
Omission and 
ExplanationExternal 
Assurance
SUB-CATEGORY: INTERNAL OPERATIONS
MATERIAL ASPECT: Investment
DMA
98IO1 Capital investment in telecommunication network infrastructure broken down by country/region 78 v
IO2Net costs for service providers under the Universal Service Obligation when extending service to 
geographic locations and low-income groups, which are not pro table.
Describe relevant legislative and regulatory mechanisms.98 v
MATERIAL ASPECT: Health and Safety
DMA
80IO3Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel involved in the installation, operation and 
maintenance of masts, base stations, laying cables and other outside plants. Related health and safety 
issues include working at heights, electric shock, exposure to EMF and radio frequency fields, and 
exposure to hazardous chemicals.80 v
IO4Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) standards on 
exposure to radiofrequency (RF) emissions from handsets80 v
IO5Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) guidelines on 
exposure to radiofrequency (RF) emissions from base stations80 v
IO6 Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets. 80 v
MATERIAL ASPECT: Infrastructure
DMA
80IO7Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission sites including stakeholder consultation, 
site sharing, and initiatives to reduce visual impacts. Describe approach to evaluate consultations and 
quantify where possible.80 v
IO8 Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites, and sites on existing structures. 80 v
SUB-CATEGORY: PROVIDING ACCESS
MATERIAL ASPECT: Access to Telecommunication Products and Services: Bridging the Digital Divide
DMA
94PA1Policies and practices to enable the deployment of telecommunications infrastructure and access to 
telecommunications products and services in remote and low population density areas. Include an 
explanation of business models applied.78-79 v
PA2Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of telecommunication products and 
services including: language, culture, illiteracy, and lack of education, income, disabilities, and age. 
Include an explanation of business models applied.78-79 v
PA3Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of telecommunications products and services 
and quantify, where possible, for specified time periods and locations of down time.79 v
PA4Quantify the level of availability of telecommunications products and services in areas where the 
organization operates. Examples include: customer numbers/market share, addressable market, 
percentage of population covered, percentage of land covered.78 v
PA5Number and types of telecommunication products and services provided to and used by low and no 
income sectors of the population. Provide definitions selected. Include explanations of approach to 
pricing, illustrated with examples such as price per minute of dialogue/bit of data transfer in various 
remote, poor or low population density areas.101 v
PA6 Programs to provide and maintain telecommunication products and services 79 v
MATERIAL ASPECT: Access to Content
DMA
104PA7Policies and practices to manage human rights issues relating to access and use of telecommunications 
products and services.71,104-105 v
MATERIAL ASPECT: Customer Relations
DMA
72PA8Policies and practices to publicly communicate on EMF related issues. Include information provides at 
points of sales material.80 v
PA9Total amount invested in programs and activities in electromagnetic field research. Include descriptions 
of programs currently contributed to and funded by the reporting organization.None v
PA10 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffs.72
http://www.emome.
net/cell_phone_plans/
monthly_rate_planv
PA11Initiatives to inform customers about product features and applications that will promote responsible, 
efficient, cost-effective, and environmentally preferable use.72-73 v
SUB-CATEGORY: Technology Applications
MATERIAL ASPECT: Resource Efficiency
DMA
48TA1 Provide examples of the resource efficiency of telecommunication products and services delivered. 49 v
TA2Provide examples of telecommunication products, services and applications that have the 
potential to replace physical objects (e.g. a telephone book by a database on the web or travel by 
videoconferencing)48-53 v
TA3Disclose any measures of transport and/or resource changes of customer use of the telecommunication 
products and services listed above. Provide some indication of scale, market size, or potential savings. 48-53 v
TA4Disclose any estimates of the rebound effect (indirect consequences) of customer use of the products 
and services listed above, and lessons learned for future development. This may include social 
consequences as well as environmental.48-53 v
TA5 Description of practices relating to intellectual property rights and open source technologies. 50 v
