2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Chunghwa Telecomwith SUSTAINABLE
INNOVATION
ATTENTIVE LISTENINGChunghwa Telecom CSR Report Welcome to the Chunghwa Telecom fifth Corporate Social Responsibility Report. This report is published in both Chinese and 
English on a dedicated CSR website. We hope to integrate the advantages of both paper-based and internet-based reports to 
let those who care about us gain a better understanding of our CSR-related ef forts and performances in 2011.
 http://www.cht.com.tw/CSR/
Chunghwa Telecom CSR 
Report 2009
Published in August, 2010
Chunghwa Telecom CSR 
Report 2010
Published in February, 2012
Chunghwa Telecom CSR 
Report 2007
Published in May, 2008
Chunghwa Telecom CSR 
Report 2008
Published in September, 2009
Chunghwa Telecom CSR 
Report 2011 
Published in August, 2012Editorial Policy
Feedback
If you have any feedback to share regarding the “Chunghwa 
Telecom CSR Report 2011,” please do not hesitate to 
contact us through:
Chunghwa Telecom Co Ltd.
Tseng, Chin-Ming, Publish Affairs Department, CSR 
DivisionAddress: 21-3, Sec. 1, Hsinyi Road, Taipei, Taiwan 100
Telephone: +886-2-2344-4000
E-mail: chtcsr@cht.com.tw
Carrying the environment on our shoulders
The Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report is printed using environmental-friendly soy ink.Reporting Period
This report discloses the company’s CSR management 
policies, key issues, countermeasures, initiatives and results between January 1 and December 31, 2011. 
However, to ensure complete coverage, parts of the Report 
include descriptions of initiatives and results outside the stated period.
Scope and Coverage
The report covers Chunghwa Telecom, and the Chunghwa 
Telecom Foundation. Combined, they are referred to as 
“Chunghwa Telecom.” Data covered by the Report includes financial (Chunghwa Telecom and its subsidiaries), environmental, and social performances.Assurance
This Report has been sent to SGS Taiwan Ltd, Taipei Branch, for data confirmation and certification purposes. This Report is certified to be in compliance with the GRI A + 
Application Level and AA1000 AS 2008.
References
This Report is compiled following the G3.1 Guidelines and the Telecommunications Sector Supplement of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).1 Message from the CEO2011 was a fruitful year for the operational development of Chunghwa Telecom.  Our mobile 
phone subscriber base exceeded 10 million and MOD service clientele also passed the hurdle of a 
million users. In response to the challenge of digital exchange, we provide the “multi-monitor, one 
cloud” cross platform service that additionally integrates fixed and mobile broadband services. The 
enormous power of the Internet can be reached using a smart phone, a tablet PC, a computer or 
a TV and we believe that the easier it is to access and use this information, the more likely it is to 
promote healthy lifestyle changes. We are committed to sustainable innovation, and the “iEN Smart 
Energy Conservation Service” and “EYE Social Innovation Call Center” are concrete demonstrations 
of our use of core ICT capability to solve environmental and social problems.
In 2011, our performance in the area of corporate social responsibility enjoyed much 
recognition, as it always does. For six consecutive years we have been honored by the Securities 
and Futures Institute and selected as one of the 10 A+ level listed companies in the area of 
information disclosure. IR Global Ranking presented us with the Outstanding Financial Information 
Disclosure Award for the Asia-Pacific and Greater China regions and we received the Best Corporate 
Governance and Best Corporate Social Responsibility Award from Finance Asia magazine for 
the Taiwan region. In addition, we have received the Reader’s Digest Platinum Award for Brand 
Credibility in the Telecommunications Industry for eight consecutive years, as well as the “2011 
Common Wealth Corporate Citizen Award.” 
With the expansion of the business group, we have standardized the operations management 
systems of our subsidiaries, strengthened collaboration and enhanced synergy within the business 
group itself. In addition, our business partnerships have increased to more than 7000 companies 
with an annual procurement value exceeding 50 billion NT. This means that we have even greater 
influence for the implementation of corporate social responsibility. In 2011, we released the “Code of 
Corporate Social Responsibility for Suppliers” and “Guidelines for Facilitating Suppliers in Fulfillment 
of Social Responsibility.” These were the first of their kind dealing with supplier management in the 
Taiwan service sector. We will continue to encourage and assist suppliers in 
achieving the appropriate corporate social responsibility standards and hope 
they can apply them to supplier management in general.
2011 was also the first five year milestone in our promotion of corporate 
social responsibility. We have disclosed primary CSR direction and cases in this report and Chunghwa Telecom use the characteristics of the ICT industry 
to extend the power of corporate social responsibility. Using resources in the 
most effective place is the concrete expression of “CHT + CSR = Care + 
Creativity.”
Starting in 2012, we will provide even more open 
communication channels and listen carefully to the sounds of 
the outside world as a reference for our actions. All our hard 
work points towards one goal which is our vision: “Become 
the most valuable and trusted ICT Company" and look 
forward to all sectors offering their comments and advice.
Chairman
Shyue-Ching LuMessage from the CEO
2Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Strategy                  Management                     Action                    Response               Target
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Management
Corporate Governance
Customer Service
Employee Care
Environmental Impact
Social InvestmentCore Capabilities – Higher 
Benchmarks
10
Enforcement of Ethical Business Practices
18
Improve Service 
Development
26
Caring for Employee NeedsPromoting Harmonious Labor Relations
38
Positive Action in Response to Change
48
Concentration on Digital Opportunities
62The Establishment of a CSR 
Management System
11
Risk and Crisis Management
19
Brand Management
Customer Relations ManagementCustomer Satisfaction Survey
27
Human Resources Management
40
Environmental Sustainability ManagementISO International Standards CertificationImplement Power ManagementCarbon Management ObjectivesTelecommunications Datacenter Energy ConservationImpressive Energy Conservation Carbon Reduction Results
49
LBG Social Contribution Assessment
633 CONTENTSStrategy                  Management                     Action                    Response               Target
Key Performance Indicators of 
Corporate Social Responsibility Table of Mandatory Duties
15
Sharing Value through the Cloud 
Platform
23
Create an Open Creative 
Platform
35
Fulfillment of Environmental Education
45
Safeguard our Beautiful 
Homeland
59
Digital Inclusion to Create 
Shared Value
67Deepen Supplier PartnershipsExpand Supplier Management
13
Ethical Corporate CultureTransparent Disclosure and 
Management
21
Building a Broadband Network
Mastering Policy and Regulation
33
Occupational Health and SafetyHealthy Safety Management and System Verification
43
Creating a Green Business
58
Project Implementation Results
66Minimize the Digital Gap
64Water Resource Efficiency 
Management
55Talent Attraction and Retention
Joy at Work, Happiness at Home
41Privacy Protection and Information SecurityActively Explain Product FeaturesEnsuring Communications Quality
30Enhance Code of Conduct
20Engagement with Stakeholders
124 5 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Profile of Chunghwa TelecomStable Performance
In 2011, an increase in the number of smart phones and the economic recovery re-
invigorated communications, increased volume, and spurred the growth potential of the 
entire telecommunications industry.
Through the diligence of all our colleagues, growth continued in mobile added 
value, cell phone sales, and internet operations. Consolidated revenues reached NT$ 
217.493 billion, while consolidated net income attributable to shareholders of the parent 
company was NT$ 47.068 billion, and earnings after tax were NT$ 6.04 per share. Con-
solidated income tax expenses totaled NT$ 8.603 billion and we continue to compen-
sate our investors. In 2011, a total of NT$ 62.248 billion was issued as cash dividends 
and capital reduction repayments.
In addition to traditional telecommunications services, we have successfully intro-
duced many information, communications, and digital convergence services, providing clients with cloud computation and customized comprehensive solutions, continuing our 
corporate transformation into an information service provider.
Expanding Overseas Operations
Chunghwa Telecom and its affiliated companies primarily cover the telecommuni -
cation services industry. Generally, the greatest combined effects are generated through mutual support between technology, production, sales, and service. This ensures con-
tinuing provision of the best professional service for our clients, and also our leadership 
position in the market.
In order to broaden overseas markets and develop new room for growth, we have 
actively integrated the ecological power of the cloud and smart networking industry and 
coordinated with subsidiaries to make the full manufacturing output of ICT integration 
services a priority with China and Southeast Asia as preeminent development zones. In 
china, we have invested in Chunghwa Telecom (China) and partnered with China Tele-com on the mainland to establish a smart city and cloud network center. In Southeast 
Asia, we have established a wholly-owned subsidiary, and simultaneously signed coop-
eration agreements with the big three telecom operators in Vietnam, we have also built 
more service equipment facilities. 
Through our subsidiaries in the US, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Japan, we ex-
port international fixed network business to overseas markets to enhance operational 
competitiveness, maintain high quality service standards, and provide international cor-
porate clients with international communications routing rental, IPVPN, IP transit, voice 
and data sales, and other services.Profile of Chunghwa Telecom
Chunghwa Telecom is committed to using innovative technologies and compassionate service to 
lead Taiwan’s industries into a new era of development. We intend to transform our managerial role 
to one of the promotion of economic development and service, in accordance with the directions of 
“Strengthening Taiwan, Connecting the Taiwan Strait, and Global Deployment.”4 5 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Profile of Chunghwa TelecomSenao
Intemational
HK Limited
(SIHK)Concord
Technology
Co., Ltd.
(Concord)Telecom
Singapore
Pte, Ltd.
(CHTS)Chunghw aChunghw a
Telecom
Global, Inc.
(CHTG )TeChunghwa
lecom
Japan Co.,
Ltd. (CHTJ)TeDonghwa
lecom Co.,
Ltd. (DHT)Prime Asia
Investment s
Group Ltd.
(Prime Asia)
Chief
International
Corp.(CIC)Chunghwa
Investment
Holding
Company
(CIHC )New Prospect
Investment s
Holdings Ltd.
(New Prospect )
Senao
Intemational
(Samoa)
Holding Ltd.Chuanghwa 
Telecom 
Vietnam 
Co.,Ltd 
(CHTV)
Chunghwa 
Precision Test 
Tech. USA 
Corporation 
(CHPT(US))SOCHAMP 
Tech 
Co., Ltd. 
("CHST")
Ceylon 
Innovation 
Co., Ltd.
("CEI")Yao Young 
Real Property 
Co., Ltd.
("YYRP") Smartfun 
Digital Co., 
Ltd. ("SFD")
Chunghwa 
Hsingta 
Co., Ltd.
("CHC")
Chunghwa 
Telecom 
(China) Co., 
Ltd ("CTC")
Saneo 
International
 Trading
(Jiangsu) Co., 
Ltd.("SITJ")Saneo 
International 
Trading
(Shanghai) Co., 
Ltd.("SEITS")Saneo 
International 
Trading
(Shanghai) Co., 
Ltd.("SITS")Saneo 
Trading 
(Fujian) Co., 
Ltd.("STF")100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%100%
100%
100% 100% 100% 100%100% 100%
0.39%100%3.66%
53.19% 100% 100%
100% 100%100% 100% 89% 100% 100% 51% 65% 56.04% 69.36% 28.05%
(SIS)Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd and Subsidiaries
Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.
(Chunghwa)Chunghwa Telecom Organizational Chart
Shareholders’ Meeting
Board of Directors (BOD)
Chairman & CEOSupervisors
Secretariat Board of 
DirectorsAuditing Department
Vice PresidentsPresidentOperating Departments in Head -
quarters
Northern Taiwan Business Group
Southern Taiwan Business 
Group
Mobile Business Group
International Business Group
Data Communications Business 
Group
Enterprise Business Group
Telecom Laboratories
Telecom Training Institute
CSenao 
International 
Co. Ltd.,
(“SENAO”)Chunghwa 
International 
Yellow Pages 
Co. Ltd.
(“CIYP”)Chunghwa 
System 
Integration 
Co., Ltd.
(“CHSI”)Light Era 
Development 
Co., Ltd.
(“LED”)
Glory Network 
System Service
( Shanghai) 
Co., Ltd.
("GNSS(Shanghai)") Spring 
House 
Entertainment 
Inc.(“SHE”)Chief 
Telecom Inc.
(“CHIEF”)
Unigate 
Telecom Inc.
("Unigate")Chunghwa 
Precision Test 
Technology 
Co., Ltd.
("CHPT")
CHI One 
Investment 
Co., Ltd.
("COI")Chunghwa 
Investment 
Holding 
Company
(“CHI”)6 7 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Profile of Chunghwa Telecom 
2009 2010 2011
Personnel Expenses 41,708 44,075 44,849 
2009 2010 2011
Number of Users Market Share Number of Users Market Share Number of Users Market Share
Local Telephone 1,244.8 97.09% 1,230.7 96.94% 1,208.1 95.29%
Mobile Telephone 926.9 34.38% 967.9 34.77% 1,007.2 34.90%
Broadband Access 430.4 83.01% 437.4 80.50% 449.8 79.21%
HiNet 406.7 71.76% 409.6 69.56% 418.2 68.65% 
2009 2010 2011
Net Revenues 198,361 202,430 217,493
Operating Costs 112,736 115,332 131,531
Operating Expenses 29,231 29,731 30,877
Income from Operations 56,394 57,367 55,085
Earnings per Share (NT$) 4.51 4.91 6.04Consolidated Financial Performance of Chunghwa Telecom and Subsidiaries (in Millions of NT$)
Market Position of Chunghwa Telecom (User Number in Millions and Market Share)
Consolidated Revenue of Chunghwa Telecom (in Millions of NT$)
Consolidated Personnel Expenses of Chunghwa Telecom (in Millions of NT$) 
Department2009 2010 2011
Amount Percentage Amount Percentage Amount Percentage
Domestic Fixed 
Communication71,467 36.03% 70,688 34.92%   79,351 36.48%
Mobile Communication 86,524 43.62% 89,044 43.99%   92,998 42.76%
Internet 23,653 11.92% 24,483 12.10%   24,834 11.42%
International Fixed 
Communication15,244 7.69% 15,534 7.67%   15,218 7.00%
Others 1,473 0.74% 2,681 1.32%    5,092 2.34%
Total 198,361 100.00% 202,430 100.00%  217,493 100.00%6 7 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Profile of Chunghwa TelecomEffective Management of Capital Expenditure
Combined capital expenditure for 2011 totaled NT$ 26.876 billion, of which NT$ 
16.569 billion was spent on fixed domestic communications (including dial-up and broad -
band networks), NT$ 4.334 billion on mobile communications, NT$ 3.746 billion on the 
Internet, and NT$ 2.227 on fixed international communications.
Broadband operations consisted primarily of installing fiber optic networks to en-
courage ADSL clients to upgrade and catalyze user base growth and increase network 
efficiency. Mobile operations consisted primarily of upgrading coverage rates of 3G/ 
HSPA/HSPA+ and other high speed networks while maintaining network communication 
quality. Also, in the next two to three years, there will be capital expenditures related to 
cloud operations. Our equipment purchasing and R & D expenses enjoy investment tax credits and incentives. Investment tax credits in 2011 totaled NT$ 642 million.
Management of Subsidiaries
We are proceeding cautiously with strategic planning, assessment, evaluation, post 
investment management, performance assessment, withdrawal mechanisms, and dis-
cipline, etc. with respect to transfer investments. Not only do we regularly analyze busi-
ness conditions and the performance of the transfer investment industries, but we also 
assist our subsidiaries in the formulation and promotion of performance management 
systems.
Our internal control covers group level risk management and administrative level 
business activities, to enforce risk control mechanisms for subsidiaries. At the same 
time we have formulated a management mechanism to manage the appointments of the 
CEO, President, and shareholder representatives of transfer investment businesses, in order to facilitate examination and managerial duties.S
M
A
R
TCorporate Social
Responsibility Management
AwardsStrategy Core Capabilities – Higher Benchmarks 
Management The Establishment of CSR Management SystemAddress Engagement with Stakeholders Response Deepen Supplier Partnerships/Expand Supplier ManagementTarget Key Performance Indicators of Corporate Social Responsibility
During the Finance Asia 2011 nominations for most outstanding Asian corporations, Chunghwa was honored 
with recognition as the “Best Managed Company,” and for having the “Best Corporate Governance,” “Best Corporate Social Responsibility,” and “Best Commitment to Strong Dividends.”From Listening to Action
Chunghwa was the first domestic telecom to assemble a CSR committee. Since promoting the 
work of CSR, we have developed strategies, management and action plans, as well as observing responses and setting goals according to the SMART model. 
In order for our business to better meet the expectations of stakeholders, starting in 2011, we 
have held regular stakeholder communication meetings to feed valuable opinions back to operating units to turn the meetings of Chunghwa Telecom and CSR into a careful listening and sustainability innovation cycle. 10 11 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementCore Capabilities – Higher Benchmarks
 In addition to emphasizing our professional capacity as a valuable enterprise, finding ways to take more 
responsible action to account for all stakeholders affected by our core business fields is an issue we have never ignored. We believe that using unique corporate resources and specialization to focus on related public issues and improve the competitive environment can be of benefit to society as well as the corporations. At the same time, maturation of corporate social responsibility needs to be infused into the core activities of a corporation so that it becomes a cultural foundation to empower integrity and inspire innovation.
The Taiwan CSR Benchmarks
The driving force behind Chunghwa Telecom 
corporate social responsibility comes from the demands 
placed on corporations in this globalized age: these 
include global corporate deployment, the risks and 
opportunities for corporate image and reputation, the 
requirement of disclosure of non-financial performance 
information, competition for competent personnel, etc. 
Since starting the corporate social responsibility initiative 
in 2007, our planned objectives are to use extralegal 
voluntary actions to fulfill sustainable development and infuse corporate social responsibility into core business 
processes. Over the years, Chunghwa Telecom has 
become a CSR benchmark for the Taiwan telecom- 
munications industry, and we will gradually develop 
corporate social responsibility from corporate strategy 
to competition strategy, and further into organizational 
operation strategy.
  Reflection and Restart
Chunghwa Telecom led the domestic industry in 
promoting CSR and has received the recognition of 
related domestic and international awards over the years. 
After the competent authorities promulgated “Corporate 
Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE/
GTSM Listed Companies,” we began formulating our 
own “CSR policy” and sought Board approval and 
support in response to the provisions in articles 5-7.
  In accordance with the plan, the Board will 
be responsible for: CSR policy, governance, the management system; proposing the CSR mission (or 
vision, value); formulating the CSR policy statement; 
reviewing the efficacy of implementation at any time and 
continuous improvement. The existing CSR committee is 
responsible for the strategy of various tasks. The six work 
teams are responsible for proposing action programs and 
annual plans and implementing performance evaluations 
and review. 
  The core values of Chunghwa Telecom are 
“honest management, professionalism, and executive power.” Based on this, our CSR can be expressed in the 
following schematic diagram.
The essential core of our CSR is “Sustainable 
Operation.” We hold ourselves to an even higher corporate ethics and moral standard in order to attain 
and keep social and government recognition. We expect 
all our colleagues to acquire proper CSR concepts and implement CSR when carrying out routine business. Scope of Chunghwa Tel CSecomR 
Honest ManagementSustainable 
Operation Inclusive 
Business
●Legal Compliance
● Compliance with 
“Corporate Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE/GTSM Listed Companies”● International Conventions
● Environmental Protection Trends
●Enrich the World●Listen to Voices ●Raise Quality●Universal Design●Social Ethics●Corporate Citizen
 
●Charity Activities●Digital InclusionSStrategy 
CSR Committee Organizational Chart
Chunghwa Telecom CSR Committee
Chunghwa Telecom
Foundation
Corporate 
Governance 
GroupEmployee 
Care GroupConsumer 
Care GroupEnvironmental 
Sustainability 
GroupDigital 
Opportunities 
GroupCorporate 
Volunteerism 
GroupCSR SecretariatConsultants10 11 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementThe SMART Management System
 We have continued to discuss and deepen 
our commitments to corporate social responsibility 
since its introduction in 2007. The “Corporate Social 
Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE/GTSM 
Listed Companies” that was passed by the Taiwan 
Stock Exchange in 2010 is now fully integrated into our 
business processes.
We have developed SMART corporate social 
responsibility management systems with unique 
strategies, management, actions, responses, and target stages to account for the six aspects of corporate social 
responsibility, including corporate governance, employee 
care, consumer care, environmental sustainability, digital 
opportunities, and corporate volunteering, and have 
fully incorporated them into our business plans. External 
questionnaires and internal assessment procedures are 
used at the end of each year and task groups formulate 
new targets for the following year. They also assess their 
own strategies, management, actions, and responses to decide whether they might require additional 
reinforcement.Raising Corporate Value
  We believe that the strategic planning and 
management of corporate social responsibility will effectively control risks, lower costs, increase 
brand values, and create new growth opportunities, 
to incorporate more value for stakeholders and 
shareholders. 
  In the future, we will continue to apply our core 
capabilities as we enforce ethical business practices 
to create corporate social responsibility benchmarks; 
attend to employee demands to enter the cloud age, create responsible brands; address climate change 
to concentrate on digital opportunities, and face the 
challenges of the new era. The core of all strategies 
points to the same objective, which is our vision to 
“Become the most valuable and reliable information and 
telecommunications company.”The Establishment of a CSR Management System
 Chunghwa Telecom has become a CSR benchmark in the Taiwan telecommunications industry. We will 
continue to develop corporate social responsibility from corporate strategy to competition strategy, and further on to organizational operation strategies in investment, production, management, and other stages, to infuse management visions for corporate social responsibility and environmental sustainability and to enforce these accordingly.
CSR and Corporate Values
Raising Corporate 
ValuesCompetition StrategyCorporate Strategy  Driving Force for Sustainable DevelopmentCompetitiveness AssessmentExternalAssessment
InternalAssessmentManagementM12 13 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementEngagement with Stakeholders
We combine corporate social responsibility with daily corporate business management because we believe 
that an appropriate management of corporate social responsibility issues is a critical factor for achieving our mission. It enables us to face possible future problems and challenges more responsibly, to create more value for company business development, clients, and the vast stakeholder base. We focus on listening to the voices of all our stakeholders, and have adopted a proactive communications approach to promptly and reasonably respond to external demand.
Multilayered Channels
Engagement with stakeholders and the  
identification of key issues is the core of CSR. Since 
the first CSR report was published in 2007, Chunghwa 
Telecom had been enhancing interaction by inviting 
different stakeholders to meetings with relevant 
departmental managers from time to time. Our CSR 
reports are also verified by third parties to ensure their 
reliability and accuracy.Analysis of Key Issues
We determined the priority sequence of different 
issues of concern to stakeholders through the aspects 
of “impact on corporate operation” and “impact on social 
environment.” As before, creating digital opportunities is 
the most important task that our CSR operations should 
focus on, in addition, “customer privacy protection” and 
“information and communication technology usage 
for disabled persons” are also closely related to our 
core operations. In response to rapid technological 
development, we need to ensure that user rights are not violated. In addition, the creation of specifically requested 
products for different clientele groups is an expectation 
of society and also includes possible future business 
opportunities.
Priority Sequence: 
Applying comprehensive procedures to determine the 
importance of every issue
Staff 
EmploymentCustomer 
PrivacyDigital 
Opportunities
Anti-
MonopolyElectromagnetic 
WavesInformation and 
Communication 
Technology Usage 
by Disabled 
Persons 
Employee 
HealthRecycling 
Discarded Cell 
PhonesClimate Change
Impacts on Corporate Operation
Impacts on Social EnvironmentIdentification:
Issues from many Stakeholders and SourcesKey Issues Matrix
Primary Source:
● Customer Feedback● Email● Stakeholder’s Meeting● Investor Questionnaire●  Employee Questionnaire
● Supplier Questionnaire● Consumer Survey● Community    Investment Assessment● External VerificationPrimary Issues:● Climate Change● Digital Opportunities●  Information and
   Communication   Technology: Usage by   Disabled Persons● Staff Employment● Anti-Monopoly●  Electromagnetic Waves
● Energy Usage● Employee Health● Customer Privacy●  Recycling Discarded
   Cell Phones High
HighLowListening to Stakeholder Voices and Timely Reponses by Department Managers.
AAddress12 13 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementDeepen Supplier Partnerships
Working and growing together with suppliers is fulfilling our responsibility to the telecommunications industry. 
Article 8 of the “Chunghwa Telecom Code of Conduct” clearly specifies: We must treat our suppliers fairly and will not obtain unfair profit through obfuscation, the abuse of advantages, or other material misrepresentations.  Suppliers are also strictly prohibited from obtaining improper profits. In addition, article 10 also declares that we will not join with competitors to boycott or refuse to deal with suppliers. 
Creating Win-Win Cooperative Relationships
Over the years, we have continued to jointly 
growth with our suppliers. We provide incentives for 
them to work in research and development. Rights 
to our patented technologies are transferred fairly. In 
terms of hardware and software, we continue to support 
telecommunications facilities and testing environments. 
We provide expansion and open cooperative platforms to 
achieve profit sharing.
Incentive Measures
We provide financing through an open platform and 
assist suppliers to develop.
1. Digital Cloud Rainforest: By our comprehensive 
cloud service creation environment, a high-
capacity cloud platform, we encourage software 
developers to participate with incentives to 
establish their results in the applications market. 
Hence, software developers can focus on the 
research and development of innovative services 
and enter market quickly.
2. The Firefly Project: Partnered with the Small 
and Medium Enterprise Credit Guarantee 
Fund of Taiwan to establish the “Chunghwa 
Telecom Firefly (counter guarantee) Project 
Credit Guarantee.” All first-rate corporations 
recommended by us can apply for credit 
guarantee. So far, a total of 19 companies 
had been recommended, and the project was 
instrumental in obtaining NT$ 240 million.
Building Ability 
  We share resources with suppliers to enhance 
their R & D capabilities. To mastering future technologies, 
We also committed to the advance of a friendly 
environment.
1. iEN service drives green industry: Our Intelligent Energy Network (iEN) focuses on providing 
solution to the following discipline: electricity, 
illumination, air conditioning, heat pumps 
and boilers, environmental monitoring, solar 
photovoltaic applications, drainage, water 
conservation, smart buildings, and equipment 
room energy conservation, etc. We devoted 
into green procurement, R & D partnerships, 
and technological promotion with equipment manufacturers, integrators, and service providers. 
To date, we have established positive interactions 
with 65 corporate partners to develop competitive 
products. 
2.  Assist the Taiwan Telematics Industry 
Association (TTIA) complete the intelligent bus 
industry standard and project demonstration: 
The formulation of onboard device standards 
is key to sustain operation of the onboard device and telematics industries. Invited by the 
Ministry of Economic Affairs, Chunghwa Telecom 
participates in the “Smart Bus Working Group 
of the TTIA” with all aspects of the onboard 
device companies. We have been working on 
the establishment of a comprehensive industry 
standard.
3. Development on 4G LTE/LTE-A wireless 
communications technology standard: We collaborated with HTC and the Industrial 
Technology Research Institute to hold the first 
3GPP standards meeting in Taiwan. More than 
900 LTE/4G experts from around the world 
attended, which enhance our reputation and 
technology leadership.
4. Convene international symposiums and forums: 
such as; The Joint Conference of R.O.C.-USA 
Business Councils (Cloud Computing Group), the 3rd Taiwan-Japan IT Business Dialogue 
Conference, and the 29th Sino-Japanese 
Modern Engineering and Technology Symposium 
(Telecommunications Group).RResponse14 15 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementExpand Supplier Management
We  were the first Taiwanese telecommunications company to formulate supplier management policies. 
In 2009, we completed the “Basic Status Survey on Corporate Social Responsibility for Suppliers” questionnaire. In 2010 we held supplier conferences and sent questionnaires out by mail.In 2011, the “Code of Corporate Social Responsibility for Suppliers” and “Guidelines of Facilitating Suppliers to Fulfill Social Responsibility,” were released and we began preparing a supplier sustainability assessment plan that is expected to be implemented from 2012.
International Standards
All Chunghwa Telecom operation sites support and 
encourage a high standard of CSR implementation. The 
purpose of the “Code of Corporate Social Responsibility 
for Suppliers” is to specify what we expect from our 
suppliers with respect to CSR standards concerned 
with ethics, labor, environment, health, and safety. We 
hope to express our commitment and responsibility to 
suppliers through these guidelines, achieve good moral 
standards together, and show respect for worker’s 
rights and a sustainable environment. The “guidelines” apply to all suppliers providing products or services to 
the Chunghwa Telecom Group, subsidiaries and joint 
venture companies and companies in the supply chain. 
Contents of the “guidelines” include five aspects:
● Corporate Standards● Ethical Standards
● Labor Standards
● Environmental Standards
● Health and Safety StandardsAccording to the “Guidelines of Facilitating 
Suppliers to Fulfill Social Responsibility,” we will strive to understand supplier CSR implementation status through 
the provision of training, surveys, onsite visits, or third 
party verification. We will encourage suppliers who have 
not conformed to the guidelines, and advise them in the 
establishment of a suitable improvement plan. These 
measures for facilitating supplier implementation of 
CSR will be planned and executed by the secretary of the CSR committee with assistance of CRS members 
assigned by the related business units.Supplier CSR Status Survey and Audit
In the past, our audits were limited to engineering 
suppliers. In 2011 audits were conducted on 87 companies (approximately 1.2% of all suppliers). 
Management and employees were interviewed to 
monitor production quality through onsite audits 
(announced and unannounced). From 2012, suppliers 
with procurement of NT$ 5 million or more must agree to 
abide by the e “Code of Corporate Social Responsibility 
for Suppliers” and “Guidelines of Facilitating Suppliers 
to Fulfill Social Responsibility,” and implement supplier CSR surveys to facilitate our supervision of the 
sustainability risks of suppliers. Our definition of high 
sustainability risk is as follows:
● Economic: Occurrence of business ethics 
violations due to supplier not having formulated a 
code of conduct
● Environmental: Supplier has yet to formulate 
a written environmental policy and has not 
formally requested that suppliers comply with environmental regulations. 
● Social: Company has yet to formulate a written 
labor policy or health safety policy.  
According to our preliminary supplier sustainability 
assessment plan, suppliers in the equipment and labor 
category will also be gradually included in the scope 
of audits to further integrate ESG (environment, social, 
governance) factors and supplier selection criteria.
ResponseR14 15 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility ManagementSince the introduction and promotion of corporate social responsibility in 2006, we have gradually 
accumulated a range of performance indicators, represented by different symbols in this report. Legal indicators (   ) represent the relevant legislation that we observe in our corporate social responsibility duties; benchmark indicators (   ) represent the benchmark performance yielded by our corporate social responsibility duties; management indicators (    ) represent tasks that are under continuous performance management; and represents the awards we have won in the related fields.
              Relevant regulations from code of conduct
Formulation of ethical business practice regulations
NCC universal service policyPeople with Disabilities Rights Protection ActLabor Union Act Risks and opportunities from addressing climate change P.20
P.21P.33P.38P.39
P.48P.14
P.39P.52Key Performance Indicators of 
Corporate Social Responsibility
2009 2010 2011 Explanation Page No.
Customer Satisfaction: 
consumer customers3.73 3.81 9.45Note ↑ P. 29
Percentage of female managers(%) 22.48 23.04 23.71 ↑ P. 38
Number of disabled persons
employed709 721 757 ↑ P. 38
Number of maternity leave
applications55 54 171 P. 42
Service providers with the highest 
amount of green purchases
 (in millions of NT$)2.06 4.1 8 ↑ P. 58
Total hours of corporate volunteer 
services41,979 147,083 19,452 ↑ P. 63
Monetary amounts of social contri-
bution (in thousands of NT$)1,556,467 1,875,187 1,604,862 ↑ P. 63
Operation of computer- related 
classes for remote areas (hours)1,023 1,240 934 ↑ P. 64
Note: Customer Satisfaction index change different count in 2011.TargetT
Legal 
Indicators
Management 
IndicatorsBenchmark 
Indicators
                 First telecommunications company to formulate 
CSR policies for suppliers
The only unionized telecommunications company that has signed collective agreements with employees
The first telecommunications company to achieve carbon 
reduction targetsS
M
A
R
TCorporate Governance
AwardsStrategy Enforcement of Ethical Business Practices 
Management Risk and Crisis Management Address Enhance Code of ConductResponse Ethical Corporate Culture/ Transparent Disclosure and ManagementTarget Sharing Value through the Cloud Platform
Chunghwa Telecom was rated A+, the highest honor, and listed amongst the top 10 A+ public companies in 
the Public Companies Information Disclosure Ranking, hosted six years in a row, by the Securities & Futures Institute. 
Chunghwa Telecom was selected by IR Global Rankings to receive the Best Financial Disclosing Company in 
the Asia Pacific Region Award, the Best Financial Disclosing Company in the Great China Area and Bronze medal, Best Investor Relations Website in Taiwan.
Chunghwa Telecom was selected by TM Forum Management World to receive a 2011 Business Innovation 
Excellence Award.
Chunghwa Telecom’s sustainability performance was ranked second in Asia and first in Taiwan.Chunghwa Telecom received the 2nd Ten Outstanding Project Managers Award.Exhibited in the “TWSE Listed Companies Expo’11” and was awarded the CG6006 advanced corporate 
governance assessment certificate and CSR award for excellence.
Awarded the “2011 Common Wealth Corporate Citizenship Award” - promoted to most futuristic new value 
Telecom enterprise in Taiwan. From Green Industry
to Digital Rainforest
Ever since Chunghwa Telecom, previously under the Ministry of Transportation and Communica-
tions’ Directorate General of Telecommunications, became a corporation and was listed in Taiwan and New York, we have been committed to the improvement of corporate governance and regard ourselves as a green business that can integrate the sustainability issue into daily operations.
Since promoting the work of CSR, we have been actively cooperating with business partners to 
drive positive social development. In the future, we will commit to the promotion of the digital rainforest concepts of “Living Water Fertile Ground, Sustainable Green Energy, Prosperous Innovation, and a Multiplex Coexistence.”18 19 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate GovernanceEnforce Board of Directors
The Chunghwa Telecom Board of Directors is 
the highest governance body, with the Chairman also 
acting as the Chief Executive Officer. The Board of 
Directors is responsible for appointing and nominating 
high level managers, as well as formulating company 
corporate social responsibility, corporate citizenship, and 
sustainable development strategies. The Board has 13 
directors which includes 3 independent directors and 3 
supervisors. To date, 3 female directors (1 independent) 
amongst 12 directors, and all the supervisors are female. At the same time, a labor directorship has been 
specifically provided to ensure diversity of the Board. In 
2011, the Board convened a total of 8 meetings and the 
average rate of Board attendance exceeded 90%.
To consolidate supervisory functions and 
management effectiveness, the Board of Directors 
established “Strategy,” “Audit,” and “Compensation” 
committees. To prevent financial losses from third 
party litigation for directors and supervisors, we have purchased indemnity insurance for Directors and 
Supervisors.
The Ministry of Transportation and Communications 
(MOTC) is the largest shareholder of Chunghwa 
Telecom. Our Chairman and President act as their 
shareholder representatives. They are committed to 
executing policies and fulfilling social responsibilities, and 
are examined by MOTC yearly. Compensation for the 
Chunghwa Directors, Supervisors, President, and Vice Presidents accounted for 0.31% of net profits in 2011, 
0.33% in 2009, and 0.30% in 2010.Information Disclosure
As a publicly traded company in Taiwan, we also 
issue American investment certificates that are publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange. All issues 
of concern to investors are simultaneously disclosed 
domestically and abroad in Chinese and English, 
providing instant financial and business information. 
For six consecutive years from 2006 to 2011, we have 
been awarded the honor of A+ from assessments of 
information disclosure for publicly traded companies.
We have also formulated the “Administrative 
Regulations on Management and Control of Prevention against Insider Trading in Chunghwa Telecom,” to 
prevent inappropriate information disclosure, and ensure 
the timeliness and accuracy of information disclosed to 
the public. 
Supplier Management Standards
The “Chunghwa Telecom Code of Conduct” clearly 
specifies: We must treat our suppliers fairly and will 
not obtain unfair profit from them. For many years we 
have provided software assistance to create a win-win 
relationship with suppliers. In 2011, we lead the industry 
in formulating the “Chunghwa Telecom Supplier CSR 
Guidelines” and strive for sustainable development with 
all our business partners.  
Business Principles
 To improve the quality of business sales and earn 
consumer trust, we have formulated “Business Principles” 
to ensure compliance with legislative requirements 
from regulatory agencies that are also incorporated into 
annual valuation criteria for high level managers. Our 
reputation and corporate image is maintained by the joint 
diligence of all our colleagues. Enforcement of Ethical Business Practices
We intend to shape “Chunghwa Telecom” into the most valuable and most reliable ICT company. On top 
of expanding our operations, we further emphasize reliable values and ethical operation. The “Code of Corporate Governance for Chunghwa Telecom Co Ltd” is our official corporate governance policy which covers: the establishment of effective corporate governance frameworks, the protection of shareholder’s rights, the enhancement of the functions of the Board of Directors, the utilization of Supervisor functions, respect for stakeholder rights, and increasing information transparency.
Shareholder Structure
Note:    this information is accurate as on July 27, 2011, the standardized 
date of dividend and capital gain distributions for Chunghwa Telecom.Government 
agenciesFinancial 
agenciesOther 
organizationsForeign 
agencies and 
foreignersIndividuals
36.84% 21.58% 2.50% 24.59% 14.49%SStrategy 18 19 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate GovernanceRisk and Crisis Management
Identifying and controlling risk incidents are responsible actions of corporations to enhance operations. 
Our framework contains comprehensive risk management policies and systems, augmented by complete information systems for recording and tracking, effectively utilizing risk control performance and reducing risk and danger in managerial aspects.
Risk Analysis and Response
We have always been committed to risk 
management policies that: “1. Actively establish 
risk management awareness among colleagues; 2. 
Discover potential risks and make dynamic responsive 
adjustments to account for environmental changes; 3. 
Utilize opportunities within risks in a firm and proactive 
fashion to reasonably ensure achievement of company 
targets and create maximized shareholder value.”
We have always formulated the “Chunghwa 
Telecom Risk Management Regulations” to act as references for all employees in the execution of their 
work. The President is designated as the person with 
the highest level of responsibility for risk and crisis 
management who reports to the Board of Directors.
Currently, we have adopted risk maps to act as risk 
assessment tools, and their parameters include: legal 
risks, network maintenance risks, market competition 
risks, and financial operation risks. At the same time, 
we conduct sensitivity analyses and stress tests for the company’s major business operations to minimize 
possible losses through risk absorption, risk transfer, risk 
reduction, and risk avoidance.Climate Change Risks
In order to prevent service interruptions, personnel, 
and financial losses caused by floods and mudslides, 
we are actively completing data center flood prevention 
and repair operations, holding disaster prevention 
and emergency response drills and mitigating the 
operational risks from climate change to ensure 
clear communications and the overall safety of the 
communications network.
After the flood disaster of August 8, we officially 
incorporated factors from “climate change issues” into the “performance and risk management” assessment 
system. Significant risks are listed in the group’s 
annual business plan, which will undergo target 
management and performance evaluation to facilitate 
continuous confirmation and feedback. In November 
2010, we completed the “Response for Climate 
Change – Chunghwa Telecom’s Strategic Actions for 
Environmental Protection, Energy Conservation, and 
Carbon Reduction.” Execution priorities or improvement plans were formulated towards the overall project, 
current execution status, short term and long term action 
plans, etc, to enhance disaster resistance capabilities 
and enforce responsible communication.
Risk Management Responsibilities
Organization Name Authorities and Responsibilities
Board of Directors (including Audit and 
Strategy Committees)1.Establish Risk Management Policies, Frameworks, and Culture 
2. Ensure the Effectiveness of Risk Management Mechanisms and Proceed with 
Resource Allocation
High Level Management (Chief Executive 
Office, President, Vice President)1.Execute Board of Directors Risk Management Decision-Making2.Coordinate with Inter-Departmental Risk Management Interaction and Communication
Headquarters (The Corporate Planning
Department takes on the duties of 
Executive Secretary )1.Compile Implemented Results of Risk Management Activities2.Assist and Supervise Risk Management Activities in Subordinate Branches3.Decide Risk Types based on Environmental Changes and  Establish Risk Undertaking4.Proceed with Efficiency Assessment and Coordination after Risk Adjustments  
Subordinate Branches1.Execute Risk Management Activities2.Execute Self-Evaluation of Risk Management and Control ActivitiesManagementM20 21 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate GovernanceAbiding by the Code of Conduct
The “Chunghwa Telecom Code of Conduct” is 
the basic guideline that governs the execution of daily 
tasks by our employees. The “Chunghwa Telecom 
Code of Conduct Violation Case Acceptance Points,” 
“Chunghwa Telecom Implementation Guidelines for 
Protecting Trade Secrets,” “Chunghwa Telecom Human 
Resources Employee Complaints Hotline,” and a strict 
reporting mechanism allow employees to conduct 
commercial activities worldwide with the highest ethical 
standards. This code of conduct was set up especially to establish ethics criteria that should be adhered to and 
maintained. These standards include personal and group 
responsibility, and responsibility to the company, public, 
and other stakeholders that apply to board members, 
supervisors, managers, and employees with the goal of 
preventing misconduct.Ethical Evaluation of Employee Behavior
The Chunghwa Telecom Code of Business 
Conduct and Code of Conduct are both published on our external and internal websites and all our employees are required to take the “Chunghwa Telecom Code of 
Business Conduct and Code of Conduct Test” each 
year. By doing so to maintain their professionalism and 
integrity, which optimize corporate governance and risk control, which establish honestly principled corporate 
culture. Additionally, the Chunghwa Telecom Employee 
Review Guidelines and Chunghwa Telecom Reward 
and Discipline Standard are published to evaluate 
employees, who are also confirmed to thoroughly 
understand and followed. Employees are rewarded or 
disciplined if their behavior is judged as to encourage or 
violate of the Guidelines. 
In 2011, 17 cases involved 22 employees were 
reported as violating to the Chunghwa Telecom Code of Business Conduct and Code of Conduct. 
No employee dismissed or litigation due to bribery or 
discipline punishment. Among above 22 employees, 11 
employees (9 cases) were in violation of confidentiality 
regulations, one was involved in a murder case, one 
in embezzlement, and the remaining 9 employees (6 
cases) were verified as engaging in improper behavior 
or speech. In addition to issuing disciplinary ordinances, we also continue to promote related regulations and 
emphasize them by education.Enhance Code of Conduct
We insist all our employees to comply with ethical standards. This means that during the process of 
operations and task performance, our employees must strictly follow the code of conduct and moral guidelines and may not compromise for any reason. This will ensure that all tasks carried out comply with regulations and moral standards that prevents any illegal action.
Online Code of Conduct Test held annually to deepen integrity 
management.AAddress20 21 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate GovernanceEthical Corporate Culture
Ethical business practices not only enhance investor confidence in the company and increase corporate 
values, they can further reduce fundraising costs and achieve win-win objectives for enterprises and investors. Therefore, we have formulated the “Ethical Corporate Management Best Practice Principles for the CHUNGHWA TELECOM Co Ltd” to be the policy followed by all of Chunghwa.
Public Private Partnership 
Corporate integrity management is an priority 
issue that everyone concerned currently. First, the 
United Nations proposed a Global Compact in 1999 to 
make anti-corruption one of the major subjects of CSR, 
by doing so to advocate corporate responsibility and 
create integrity and fairness business environment. 
APEC also has categorized “enhancing CSR” and 
“combating corruption” as two critical global issues. They 
encourages cooperation between public and private 
sectors to improve governance and combat corruption.
Hence, the board approved 23 articles in the 
“Chunghwa Telecom Code of Business Integrity” in December 2010, which clearly specifies the regulations. 
Board members, supervisors, managers, employees, 
and also investment companies are ask to comply with. 
These standards form is our group-wide policy, which 
has specific targets that are disclosed to the public on 
the company’s external website.
Applied Across the entire Group
Goals of establishing these standards are to unify 
the internal consensus. Specific regulations clearly ensure to ban dishonest behavior, and implement 
integrity management with good corporate risk 
management mechanisms, which to help to create 
a sustainable operating environment. Key points 
implements are as follows:
1. In order to strengthen determination and 
commitment to integrity management by the 
company, specific company regulations and external documents are clearly announce for 
integrity management policy and its implement.
2. In order to conduct commercial activities under 
fairness and transparency, clearly specify to avoid 
transactions with those who have dishonesty 
records.3. Clearly specify to prohibit bribery, accept of 
bribes, provide illegal political contributions, 
improper charitable donations, sponsor 
unreasonable gifts and hospitality, or other 
improper benefits. 
4. The board of directors should urge the company 
to prevent dishonest action and ensure to 
implement policy through by the dedicated 
department.
5. To implement integrity management, the 
board members, supervisors, managers, 
and employees should conduct business by 
regulations so as to prevent dishonesty.
6. Clearly specify a conflict of interest avoidance 
policy for board members, supervisors, and 
managers.
7. To ensure the implementation of integrity 
management, the company should establish an 
effective accounting system and internal control 
system. Internal auditor should regularly confirm 
compliance status.
8. Related operating and behavior guidelines should 
be establish to implement integrity management 
from board members, supervisors, managers and 
employees. 
9. To implement the promotion of integrity 
management, clearly specify that the company 
should regularly hold education and training, and 
establish an expedient rewards and disciplinary 
system. 
10. Clearly specify that the company should 
strengthen the fulfillment of integrity 
management information disclosure.RResponse22 23 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate GovernanceEnsuring GRI Frameworks as Principle
After the introduction of the “Corporate Social 
Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE / GTSM 
Listed Companies,” The Taiwan Stock Exchange further 
refined its developmental direction in terms of enhancing 
corporate social responsibility information disclosure for 
publicly listed companies. The Taiwan Stock Exchange 
proposed the third generation guidelines of Global 
Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting 
Guidelines (also referred to as GRI G3.1 Guidelines) 
as the most important reference and framework of information disclosure. We will continue to emphasize 
CSR issues and report publication.
Inviting Stakeholders to Read Reports
In order to comply with article 8 of the “Corporate 
Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE / GTSM Listed Companies,” this company 
began identifying stakeholders and found that the 
most important stakeholders are clients, employees, 
shareholders, suppliers, the community, and non-
profit organizations.  We began holding stakeholder 
conferences in 2011 which were divided into specific and 
general conferences. Stakeholders were invited to offer 
opinions on that year’s CSR report.Greenhouse Gas Emissions and  
Reduction Disclosure
The Taiwan Stock Exchange also encourages the 
trend of publicly listed companies disclosing greenhouse 
gas emissions and reduction information in their annual 
reports and public documents. In the future, we will 
follow orders from regulatory agencies and voluntarily 
disclose relevant information in annual reports and public 
documents, to enhance corporate governance and fulfill 
corporate social responsibilities.
Chunghwa Telecom is committed to energy 
conservation, carbon reduction, and sustainable environmental development, and is also the first 
Taiwanese telecommunications company to pass 
greenhouse gas examinations and certifications. In 
the future, we will also gradually disclose relevant 
information and continue to act as the benchmark of 
Taiwan’s domestic service industries.
AA 1000 as Reporting Certification Standard
To improve the quality of our reports, we began 
adopting AA 1000 as our reporting certification standard in 2009. AA 1000 is the certification standard devised by 
the Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability, which 
emphasizes that report certification shall be based on 
its production process, such as confirming the identities 
of stakeholders, communication with stakeholders, 
and confirming mutual issues with stakeholders. The 
inclusiveness, completeness, and comparability of 
reports is also emphasized. We have adopted training classes and other methods to enhance recognition 
for AA1000 within subordinate groups of the CSR 
committee.We are committed to the direction and goal of CSR information disclosure and have received recognition 
from stakeholders in all segments of society. In the future, we will continue to lead the competent authorities, disclose various information according to international standards, and strengthen communication with stakeholders to gradually become the industry standard for disclosure in Taiwan.Transparent Disclosure and Management
Awarded A++ Level of the “Ninth TWSE / GTSM Listed Companies 
Information Disclosure Assessment”RResponse22 23 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Corporate GovernanceLead Cloud Computation 
In recent years, cloud computing has become 
an important trend in the development of the 
telecommunications industry. Chunghwa Telecom 
is also actively preparing development. Simply put, 
cloud computation consists of cloud servers, terminals, 
networks, and services. Cloud“networks” and “services” 
are part of Chunghwa Telecom’s industry and two of its 
advantages which connect the “cloud” to the “terminals” 
and provide people and businesses with convenient 
cloud computation services.
In 2011, cloud services emerged from infrastructure 
construction in the concept stage, into the year of cloud services. Currently, in addition to providing customers 
with services such as relationship management 
services, computing cloud, cloud anti-virus and anti-
hacking, cloud storage, etc., we are also promoting the 
six primary services of the personal, storage, business, 
travel, circulation and health clouds with partners from 
different industries. At the same time, we are actively strengthening cloud infrastructure through cooperation 
with strategic cloud partners such as Microsoft, Intel, 
Fujitsu, Trend Micro, Quanta, Show Chwan, etc. to drive 
the development of the cloud computing industry in 
Taiwan.Cloud Computation Association in Taiwan
In 2011, we established the “Cloud Computation 
Association in Taiwan.” This association has become a 
catalyst for increasing the value of the cloud computing 
industry chain in Taiwan and allows the industrial, 
academic, and research sectors to have matching 
platforms for development, integration, verification, and 
commerce.  In 2011 the Cloud Computation Association 
in Taiwan planned and birthed the “Taiwan Cloud Valley” 
in hopes of establishing industry clusters, providing 
incubation, creating a cloud platform, and other centers for cross nodal operation to become Taiwan’s first cloud 
computing demonstration industrial park, to further 
become the hub of Asian cloud services, and drive the 
cloud industry in Taiwan towards the next milestone.
Four Centers, One Platform, One Marketplace
Chunghwa Telecom’s cloud computing layout 
follows the strategic framework of “four centers, one platform, one marketplace” to gradually move forward. 
Four centers refers to an R&D center, test center, 
operations center, and experience center.
In addition, Chunghwa Telecom has built a large 
capacity “cloud service creation platform” focusing on 
cloud software developers to build a “Chunghwa Cloud 
Marketplace’ and provide business customers with 
one-stop shopping, buy to rent, on-demand, safe, and stable cloud application services. From this we hope to 
expand cloud application use and build the largest cloud 
settlement in Taiwan.Sharing Value through the Cloud Platform
Our goal is to become the “most valuable and most trustworthy telecommunications company.” In addition to 
balancing customers, shareholders, and employees, we are committed to creating overall social value. We are also committed to becoming the leader in domestic cloud computing and driving the shared value of the domestic industry.TargetTCustomer Service 
S
M
A
R
TStrategy Improve Service Development
Management Brand Management/ Customer Relations ManagementAddress Customer Satisfaction Survey/ Privacy Protection and Information Security/ Actively Explain Product Features
Response Ensuring Communications Quality/ Building a Broadband Network/  Mastering Policy and Regulation
Target Create an Open Creative Platform
Awards
Received first prize in the telecommunications industry of the “Centennial Service Industry Quality Gold Award”.
Received two major awards from the Asia Pacific Customer Service Consortium (APCSC) including “Customer SatisfactionQuality System of the Year” and “Best Use of Knowledge Management of the Year”.“Cultivating Taiwan Broadband Construction” received international recognition by being awarded “Best Asian Brand” and“Best Asian Employer”.Received the Taiwan top 100 brands communications and media service award from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Received first place in Common Wealth Magazine’s “Gold Medal Service Award” in the telecommunications category and theonly telecom selected into the top 10 cross industry ranking.2011 Ninth “Global View Magazine’s” distinguished service award in the telecommunications category.Received the “Next Service Grand Prize” in the mobile fixed network category held by Next Media and first place in the “Eighth Annual Best Service Business”.The “Disaster Emergency Response System” received the Taiwan Geographical Information Society's “Seventh Golden MapAward Best Application System Award”.Received first place in the Cloud Computing Association in Taiwan’s “Centennial Cloud Innovative Application Award of Excellence”Fourth consecutive first place in Business Today’s “Businessman's Ideal Brand’s” telecommunications category.The only company in the telecommunications industry to receive “Taiwan’ 20 Top Innovative Industries in 2011” from the Ministryof Economic Affairs”. The only telecommunications brand to receive “Excellent Business Services Brand” from the Department of Commerce of the Ministry of Economic Affairs.Received the telecommunications service category award of Common Wealth’s “Taiwan’s Most Admired Company” for six consecutive years.Received ITS Taiwan’s “ITS Application Award” and “ITS Paper Award”.Achievements in the national technology program of network communications evaluated as an excellent plan.Technology Award in ITS Taiwan/Telematics “Splendid 100 Selection Event”.Participated in the “2011 Taipei International Invention Show and Technomart,” received 3 gold medals, 1 silver medal, and2 bronze medals.From Plains to Mountains
Whether on the plains or a mountain, the familiar Chunghwa Telecom logo is always easily seen; 
in faraway places, the Chunghwa Telecom logo further represents the communications channel between the people and the outside world.
Since promoting the work of corporate social responsibility, we have emphasized the importance 
of our commitment to customers. In order to establish a far-reaching communications range and good communications quality, in 2011 we invested several billion NTD on remote highways and mountainous regions to construct the most efficient telecommunications and communications infrastructure for Taiwan.26 27 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Customer ServiceBringing Cloud to Homes – iHome Smart Phone
We have introduced the new home service “iHome 
Smart Phone” to address the modern “smart family’s” 
need for MICE (Monitor, Information, Communication, 
Entertainment). By combining NGN networks with cloud 
services and interconnected networks, the generic home 
phone can provide services of home monitoring and 
integration of online lifestyle information. 
The “iHome Smart Phone” is of the same size as 
a home phone, combined with a 7-inch touch screen 
monitor to provide customers with home security, information services, communications services, and 
multimedia services, which can achieve many functions, 
including GPS, instantaneous road conditions, weather, 
and health services. A “user-friendly” spirit allows people 
of any age to easily use this device.Smart Medication
We  partnered with the Show Chwan Health Care 
System to introduce all their medical facilities cloud 
into medical application services, which includes cloud 
electronic medical records, cloud nursing information 
system, Hence to create the nation’s first private medical 
cloud and open a new era of medical computing.
  Furthermore, we partnered with Taidoc 
Technology to promote the “blood sugar & pressure 
management” cloud service system in 2011. Diabetic 
and high blood pressure patients can use the “Taidoc Cloud Service Gateway” at drug stores to log instrument 
measurement to the database. Patients can easily obtain 
personal blood status reports any time to enhance 
self-management and reduce extra medical usage. 
Meanwhile, reports can also be used for medical inquiry, 
which lead a big step forwards for a healthy society.
Living Parent-Child Cloud
To uphold the spirit for cloud platform, “innovation 
value and moved services”, we combine more monitors into a single structure. Hence we applied this cross-
platforms into PCs, smart phones, tablet PCs, MOD 
digital set top boxes, etc., we customize and diversify 
rich digital learning links for parent-child product services 
that creates a convenient digital lifestyle.
  We partnered with the United Daily News Group 
to fulfill various household needs and provide preschool 
education cloud services to parent-child. In the future, we will move towards diversification, implementation 
for parent-child cloud services (family/education and 
community/personalized entertainments), and focus on 
the cross-straits and world Chinese markets to be the 
goal of the most influential Chinese parent-child brand.Improve Service Development
Combining the cloud and devices brings inexhaustible innovation and forward development. We utilize 
our ICT (information and communications technology) specialty to provide a comprehensive cloud service platform and high standard information security mechanisms to accelerate the ubiquity of cloud use.
A household telephone becomes a web life data kiosk to instantly 
send images to far-away relatives.
SStrategy 26 27 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Customer ServiceBrand Management
Chunghwa Telecom possesses unique brand assets in Taiwanese society, which we continue to build on 
through brand management and added value. In 2011, Chunghwa Telecom won the platinum award of the telecommunications services section of the “Trusted Brand” award held by Reader’s Digest for the Asia Pacific region for the eighth consecutive year. We are the only Taiwanese telecommunications company to have won this honor.
Brand Frameworks
Chunghwa Telecom adopts concentrated brand 
frameworks that account for individualistic brand 
presentation. We have a Brand Manager (President) 
in place to undertake the supervision of all brand 
creation, design, management, and adjustments in the 
company, as well as communicating with the Deputy 
Brand Manager within each business group during CSR 
meetings. The Deputy Brand Managers for business 
groups (i.e. vice presidents of subsidiaries) follow the 
company’s overall brand strategies as they undertake implementation responsibilities, as well as flexibly and 
independently operating their own designated brands 
under authorized parameters.
Brand Strategies
● Brand Policy: concentrated strategies that account for 
the development needs of individual fields.
● Brand Management: the company’s Brand Manager is designated to handle the  formulation, control, and 
adjustment of all brand strategies for the company, 
while subsidiaries are responsible for implementation.
● Brand Structure: concentrated brand structures that account for individualistic brand  presentation.New Appreciation from New Colors
We have always led the development of 
Taiwan’s telecommunications industry through solid 
experience and professionalism. In order to respond 
to the challenges of a new era, we have continuously 
transformed and enhanced ourselves and decided to 
promote a comprehensive and integral renovation on top 
of the foundation of our original CI (Corporate Identity 
System). We used bright orange, green, and blue 
ribbons to endow Chunghwa Telecom with a new spirit 
of technology, innovation, caring, growth, enthusiasm, and vitality, and a new corporate image. Not only was 
the external image reshaped and standardized, the 
identity and practice of overall internal concepts were 
even more highly emphasized. Every employee in the 
company is a brand operator. Every customer they face 
and every operational detail accumulates brand value 
and contributes to Chunghwa Telecom.
Starting from July 2010, approximately 300 
business locations in Taiwan will gradually undergo store logo replacement. We hope to present a new 
sensation to the public with innovative corporate images 
that combine inspiring services. From 2011, many 
flagship stores will be established that will include 
neoadjuvant CI images and colors. From these flagship 
store displays, consumer recognition and impressions 
of these neoadjuvant CI images will be enhanced while 
simultaneously creating a new brand image.
Chunghwa Telecom’s new CI images, colors, and 
symbolic significance
● Orange: Passion, Energy
● Green: Growth, Care● Blue: Technology, Innovation
ManagementM28 29 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Customer ServiceCustomer Relations Management
For better service integrity, we are enhancing not only the coordination between our business counters and 
call centers, but also our internet customer services. We received the honors of “Best Customer Satisfaction Quality Control System” and “Best Knowledge Management” from the “Customer Relationship Excellence Awards 2011” held by the Asia Pacific Customer Service Consortium in Hong Kong. In the future, we will continue participating in international customer relationship related award competitions, continuously enhance internal operating procedures, optimize customer relationships, and more actively learn from international customer service operations management and benchmark business models.
Multi-Channel Services
We are comprehensively improving customer 
service quality for every service channel, while 
enhancing coordination between business counters and 
call centers to provide integral services. In 2011, we are 
further enhancing internet customer services.
● Live web chat service:   For Instant Message (IM) users and for persons 
with hearing impairments, we have introduced text-based live web chat customer services. With continuous 
service expansion, all Chunghwa’s operations (mobile/fixed-line/broadband) are now covered.
● Internet communities:   To serve the ever-growing Internet community 
populations, in January 2010, we created a Facebook fan page “Chunghwa Telecom Dr. Q” to answer 
questions, proactively publish information such as FAQs 
and discount offers, and to gather customer suggestions 
for internal reference.
● Enhancing the web call center:
  To save our customers the trouble of calling and 
visiting counters, we are increasing the scope of self-help services provided through the web call center.
● Plan for mobile customer service:  For the increasing number of smart phone users, 
a mobile version of the web call center and APPs for the iOS and Android platform have been planned to provide 
friendly access to our services anywhere.Exquisite Services
For constant service quality improvement, 
customer satisfaction for our business counters, call centers, and equipment maintenance service centers 
are constantly measured by the in-house survey 
team. Consulting firms were also introduced to assist 
counters with service refinement and the service quality 
assurance mechanism through the evaluation of secret 
shoppers, so that any defects in customer service will be 
promptly detected and corrected. We were honored with 
the “First Line Service Quality Survey 2011 – 1st Place in the Telecommunications Industry” from Global Views.
Measures continually implemented in 2011 were:● Emphasis on new technology equipment to 
generate new demand from customers. We established a professional technical service team, including online 
specialist instructors for smart phones to provide 
instantaneous, customized, and competent service.
● Proactive care: We proactively call customers to 
inform them of useful information, to care and listen to their needs, then to devise the most suitable solutions 
for them.
● Commissioned a consultancy to handle ad 
hoc counseling in the aspiring service element, define 
business counter service standards, and to instruct 
customer service staff in mastering the critical moment 
of contact with customers, and refine services.
● A dedicated internal aspiring service web site: 
In order to motivate our agents to provide sincere and inspiring services that are beyond customers’ 
expectations, a dedicated internal aspiring service web 
site was set up to share aspiring service cases. Award 
ceremonies are also held to recognize the best aspiring 
service cases.
ManagementM28 29 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Customer ServiceCustomer Satisfaction Survey
Chunghwa Telecom aims to aspire to the expectations of our customers. Our goal is to handle customer 
complaints within 3 days. We value customer satisfaction as part of our service indicators, and their recognition of our enterprise image, brand value, and quality of service. Therefore, we regularly commission third parties to conduct customer service satisfaction surveys. We regularly accept the NCC’s telecommunications industry service quality surveys, and our evaluation scores in all criteria significantly exceed NCC’s specified standard scores.
Customer Complaint Handling SOP  
To ensure an open, result-driven complaint 
resolution process for customers, our service hotline 
processes passed ISO10002:2004 (Guidelines for 
Handling Customer Complaints), and we are the first 
and only domestic operator in the industry to pass such 
an international standard certification. Our target is to 
complete customer complaints within three business 
days. 
Besides customer service hotlines, customers 
can file their complaints through our website (www.cht.com.tw) or PR hotline (02-2344-3691) authorized by 
our chairman. After cases are opened, they are passed 
to the customer complaints handling task force to be 
processed as urgent cases. Customers can enquire into 
case updates at any time via telephone and our customer 
complaints handling task force will inform customers of 
the latest updates on their cases. From August 2009 to 
the end of 2011, the numbers of our customer complaints 
have clearly fallen.Customer Service Satisfaction 
There are three sources from which we survey 
customer satisfaction for service hotlines: 
1) questionnaires mailed out once a year by our 
Marketing Department; 
2)manual out dialing from our call centers; 3)automated surveys by the CTI system
  The first method has individual KPI requirements 
with satisfaction calculated on a 10 point scale, result for 7.53 in 2011.The second and third methods are 
integrated as one KPI requirement calculated on a 5 point scale, result for 2011 was 4.57.
Customer Satisfaction Survey
To  understand customer satisfaction levels for 
all aspects of service and recognition of our corporate 
image, brand values, and service quality, we contract 
external market research firms annually to conduct 
customer satisfaction surveys for consumer, and types 
of enterprises. Questions and expectations that they 
are highly concern are explored in all aspects of our 
business.
Through the Customer Opinion Process System 
(CPS), we can convey customer feedback opinions instantly to product administration, and operational units, 
risk management, and public relations department for 
further handling. Furthermore, product subsidiaries will 
assist by holding monthly review meetings with customer 
service units. Key Performance Indicators for Customer Service Hotlines
2009 2010 2011
Actual Value Actual Value Target Value Actual Value
Rate of 
Response within 
20 Seconds  82.61% 82.9% 81.5% 77.9%
Customer
Satisfactio4.74 4.59 4.37 4.57
First Call
Resolution 
Rate86.17% 79.6% 74.45% 79% 
Fixed Network Mobile Data Network
August, 2009 2.63 4.81 10.2
December, 2011 0.97 2.53 1.27Complaints per 10,000 customers
Customer Satisfaction Survey
2009 2010 2011
Large Enterprises 4.67 4.77 9.45
Small and Medium 
Enterprises4.34 4.36 8.68
Customer 3.73 3.81 7.17
Note: In 2011, the service satisfaction indicator was converted from a 5 
point scale to a 10 point scale.AAddress30 31 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Customer ServicePrivacy Protection and Information Security
We have established the “Fraud Disruption Operation System” (FDOS), which works with police units to 
prevent fraud. Also, we continue to monitor formulation of regulatory obligations of Internet Service Providers (ISP) in the drafting process of the “Regulatory Regulations on Commercial Spam Electronic Mail.”
Promoting healthy Internet use for children which were highly acclaimed.
AAddress
Customer Privacy Service and Measures
In response to the upcoming implementation of the 
“Personal Data Protection Act,” an additional “Personal 
Data Protection Team” will be established under the “IT 
Strategy Committee”. We set up personal data safety 
training and awareness plan, personal data process 
analysis and inventory plan, risk assessment plan, which 
are all categorize as our KPI indicator.
  In order to strengthen customer data protection, 
Chunghwa Telecom has categorized basic customer 
information as “top secret” documents and stored in locked counter. Employees are ask to sign the “Trade 
Secret Protection Contract” and their supervisors are 
jointly liable. Any outsourcing company is involved in 
trade secrets, must also sign related confidentiality 
agreements. Subsidiaries report protection status 
annually, headquarters perform random audits at 
customer service centers to enforce the implementation.
We treat the rights and interests of our customers 
as priority; we follow strictly to the Personal Information Protection Act and had never got beyond any range. 
We only collect data for legitimate and legal reasons. 
To work within the Act, we have taken the necessary 
safety and protection measures for all our information 
systems. At the network counter, for instance, the name 
of our customers will only be displayed as Mr. ○ or Ms. 
○, the last four digits of the equipment SN number will be 
masked, and only 6 Chinese characters in the address 
will be displayed (ex. Yonghe District, New Taipei City), etc.
For the customer service line built for rapidly solve 
complaints in privacy and confidentiality, we established 
ISO9001 Suspected Leakage Handling Procedures to 
report and handle all privacy complaints, hence to protect 
personal information. In 2011, 112 suspected complaints 
of information leakage were reported, make up 0.00014% 
of the total complaints.Fraud Prevention
We created the 165 reporting line in November 
2007 to assist the government. As of 2011, it is operated by 11 customer service personnel on monthly basis to 
assist police bureaus in undertaking priority cases during 
peak hours. The FDOS, operated by 3 customer service 
personnel, was also created to provide suspicious 
fraud-like phone calls information to the police, which 
is to assist police units with the instant termination of 
fraudulent calls.
Internet Safety for Children
 
 In order to allow children who are frequently 
online, we have introduced a time management and 
website for gate-keeping mechanism. This help parents 
manage their children’s usage on information technology. 
The shows our concern not only on adult users, but also 
children and teenagers. Because we know the use of 
internet to access information matters for their maturity. 
Our operational expansion based on a mission of 
creating a safe and healthy society that allows the next generation to face less online harm.30 31 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Customer ServiceEnsuring Transparency in Fees and Rates
Due to the issues of billing errors or costs 
derived from obstacles, we uphold the principle of cost 
transparency. In addition to actively notifying affected 
customers, we also release the reasons and methods 
for each event by customer service hotline through the 
company’s internal message notification platform. This 
ensures correct responses when customers consult the 
hotline and reduce complaints.
  We place great respect to customer complaints 
with regard to billing problems. We suspend the execution of payment reminders and service 
suspensions before responsible parties are identified, 
we have also established a special call center provide 
customers inquire to increase customer satisfaction.
Reduce Negative Impacts
Customers can use our services without worries 
only by eliminating the potential negative impact of telecommunications services. We also provide the 
following services:
● Junk Mail: By using a HiNet mailbox, customers can 
enjoy free webmail service. Through a simple setup, 
users can decide whether questionable e-mail will be 
automatically deleted in the future.
● Adult Content: Provides K12 mailbox forced isolation, 
HiNet Adult content gatekeeper, and mobile internet adult content security guard keep children and teenager 
far away from harmful websites.
● Usage Time Control: “HiNet Online Time Management 
Service” and mobile phone “3G Talk without Worry” 
programs, give parents effective control on mobile 
phone and online status.Proactive Product Information
In order to unify information sources, and to 
correctly communicate the over 3,500 items of related product information annually, an internal website is 
established to be the information storage area, hence 
to undertakes the pre and after-sales service of the 
products. This is a joint channel for all related subsidiary 
departments to provide product information. Trained 
personnel are also alerted to audit information content, 
timeliness, and upload data to customer service center. 
Hence to provide service personnel references for inquiry and product features (ex: related discount events) 
and strengthen customers service.
Electromagnetic Radiation Standards
Governmental authorities have referenced the 
International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) controls for base station 
electromagnetic radiation power density and mobile 
phone SAR value to formulate control standards. We 
request our base stations and mobile phones supplies to 
pass certification for this standard. We also provide an 
exclusive complaint channel, if any of the public concern 
about electromagnetic radiation, each can apply for a 
free professional measurement.
  Our antenna construction and safe distance from 
the public and buildings standards, uniformly conform to the legal requirements of the competent authorities. In 
order to reduce total base stations and visual impacts 
to the public, we constructed cooperative stations 
with industry partners and the percentage of them 
also conform to the standard requirements from the 
authorities.
  In 2011, we coordinated with the NCC to hold a 
“Consumer Protection Awareness Carnival”, and invited academics to hold two forums and produce a number of 
electromagnetic radiation awareness products.Actively Explain Product Features
We are committed to providing a beautiful digital lifestyle. In order to allow customers to use our services 
without worries, in addition to proactively explaining product features and pricing when selling products, we also actively manage adult content to protect minors and perform actions such as abiding by electromagnetic radiation specifications, etc., to exclude potential negative effects.AAddress32 33 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Customer ServiceAction Program in Response to Climate Change
In November 2010, we completed the “Response 
to Climate Change – Chunghwa Telecom Environmental 
Protection Energy Conservation Carbon Reduction 
Strategic Action.” The current implementation status, 
includes either short or long term plans, are the 
formulation of priorities, improvement of disaster 
resilience, ensure clear communications, and the safety 
of overall communications network.
  Plans for flood-prone equipment rooms reform:●Install sealed water resistant panels●Install water resistant sluice gates for equipment
● Seal up or raise up basement vents, doors, and 
windows
  Improvement plans for telecom equipment:● Move basement equipment: Move diesel 
generators and AC distribution equipments to 
the first floor, and install DC equipment to above 
second floor.
●Prepare and stock generators and pumps.
● Enhance generator configurations in remote 
equipment room and increase oil storage tank 
capacityReporting System Innovation
The pioneered “mass response” system has widely 
adopted by firefighting agencies. We further integrate 
with a geographic system as an e-phonebook system. 
Hence to create an “Emergency Message Notification 
System for Disasters”, which sends voice or text 
messages to pre-designated lines and mobile phones 
and can quickly find telephone numbers in designated 
areas for the purpose of broadcast messaging. In 
addition, the newly created “Low-frequency Wireless 
Broadcast System” is fast, inexpensive, non power dependent, which features a potential scope to cover 
nationwide. This system is especially suited for disaster 
emergency announcements such as weather and 
landslide warnings, etc.
Non Isolated Islands in Communication
In order to prevent occurrence and spread of 
disasters, from past experience we enhanced measures such as the construction of remote area transmission 
routing, wireless backup routing, upgrade backup power 
capacity, international submarine cable supporting 
system, etc. Drills for Network repair and equipment 
schedule are held yearly to enhance disaster prevention 
and relief skills and reduce disaster losses.
  Mobile phone communications are necessity for 
most people, we introduce a proper backup plan: base stations arrangement in dispersed configuration, so if 
any base station broke down or equipment malfunction, 
the other base stations in the system can maintain 
operation. When communications are interrupted by a 
natural disaster, small microwave, satellite (transported 
by helicopter, small capacity), or portable base 
stations (vehicle transported, large capacity) maintain 
communications to the disaster area.Ensuring Communications Quality
Due to unfavorable weather conditions caused by climate change such as typhoons, monsoons, etc. affecting 
telecommunications equipment rooms and their operation, customer disaster reporting can be cut off and disaster relief severely affected. In order to solve operational issues in operating locations adapting to climate change, we make complete disaster prevention preparations every day and can quickly form an emergency response team to conduct disaster relief and ensure smooth communications with the affected area.
Water resistant panels installed in 
lowlying area equipment rooms to ensure communications during rainstorms.
RResponse32 33 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Customer ServiceBuilding a Broadband Network
Going online anytime anywhere has become a necessity and trend for modern people.  In order to satisfy the 
continually rising broadband needs of internet and business customers, we have continued to expand both submarine cable capacity and participation in the construction of new submarine cable systems. We are also actively provisioning fiber optics and in the 3rd quarter of 2012, it is expected that the construction volume of fiber optic network access equipment will surpass ADSL. In addition we continue to construct wireless internet hotspot infrastructure to create even more wireless internet hotspots, relieve mobile data traffic, and increase service quality.
Fiber Optic Network Construction
Broadband networks are the foundation of digital 
convergence. Thus, we are actively provisioning fiber 
optics and it is expected that the construction volume 
of fiber optic network access equipment will surpass 
ADSL in the 3rd quarter of 2012. This responsed to 
government plans to achieve 80% household coverage 
at 100Mbps by 2015 and the goal of 21 million mobile 
broadband users. In addition to striving to achieve 
interim government targets, we hope to effect close to 
a 100% household coverage by 2020 and achieve the goals of connecting customers to higher speed fiber optic 
networks and mobile broadband to provide all people 
with more ubiquitous, high speed, and convenient full 
range digital broadband infrastructure. 
We are committed to investing 20 billion NTD 
annually in the future for a total investment of over 
200 billion over 10 years to quickly raise the rate of 
broadband internet access and spur transfer speed in 
Taiwan to 50Mbps, 100Mbps, onto 1 Gbps for a ten-fold growth. The coverage of our 30Mbps broadband in 2011 
ranged from 82.5% to 91.98% and we achieved more 
than the government’s goal. 
Coordinating with the government’s digital 
convergence development program, we will invest 
200 billion NT$ in the next 10 years to construct our 
broadband network (including fixed-line and mobile 
networks) and invest 100 billion to construct a broadband 
fiber optic network which will serve to consolidate our competitive fiber optic advantages, create digital 
convergence. 
Starting in 2012, we will provide two-way symmetric 
100Mbps broadband service and begin 1Gbps testing 
sites in Taipei City, New Taipei City, Taichung City, Tainan 
City, Kaohsiung City, and Taoyuan County to provide 
user of high speed broadband service above 200Mbps.Expand Wireless Hotspots
Going online anytime anywhere has become a 
necessity and trend for modern people.  Especially with 
the rapid growth of smart phone and tablet PC users, 
mobile broadband traffic has grown exponentially in the 
last couple of years. In 2010, we procured over 1,100 
units of 3.5G base stations with top speeds of 42Mbps to 
effectively expand mobile broadband network capacity, 
transmission speed and coverage.
Our 3G users have exceeded 5.26 million and 
wireless hotspots will be our future development strategy. Between 2010 and 2012, we plan to invest 3 billion 
NT$ to construct an underlying wireless internet hotspot 
network and create 30,000 wireless internet hotspots to 
relieve mobile Internet demand.
Ubiquitous Telecommunications Service
To safeguard the basic communications rights 
of citizens and to allow all citizens to enjoy ubiquitous telecommunications service fairly is a policy goal that 
the government is promoting for the long term. We have 
disregarded cost to provide more than 21 households in 
81 remote villages and underdeveloped areas nationally 
with telephone service and over 80,000 households 
with data communications services, over 81,000 
public telephones in 25 counties and cities, and data 
communication access services to 3,700 elementary schools and libraries. The total net cost of Chunghwa 
Telecom ubiquitous service construction in 2011 
amounted to 825 million NT$. Regarding broadband 
network infrastructure, we expect to complete 12Mbps 
broadband service at 50% coverage for 716 remote 
villages nationally by 2013, 75% coverage by 2014, and 
95% coverage by 2015.RResponse34 35 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Customer ServiceDigital Convergence Development Project
The Executive Yuan approved the “Digital 
Convergence Development Project” on December 
9, 2010. According to this project, two stages of 
amendment and legislation will be promoted. The first 
stage allows the radio/TV and telecommunications 
industries to amend laws in a hierarchical regulatory 
framework to conduct legal adjustment in response to 
practical needs. The Third Radio/TV Act was expected to 
be completed in June 2012 and the telecommunications 
bill required amendments to surmount urgent obstacles. After reporting to the Executive Yuan for approval they 
were sent to the Legislative Yuan for deliberation. 
In the second stage, the Third Radio/TV Act and 
telecommunications bill (or specific convergence 
architecture) move towards horizontal structure 
legal amendment work and passed Legislative Yuan 
deliberations to achieve digital convergence development 
goals such as fiber optic user totals, wireless broadband 
user totals, digital cable ubiquity, etc. 
The digital convergence development project will 
increase national competitive strength and effectively accelerate digital convergence services and ICT industry 
development. We are happy to see its success and in 
addition to continuing to observe amendment status 
and direction and communicating our suggestions to 
the competent authorities at the right time to maximize 
benefits, we will actively construct a fiber optic network 
simultaneously, enhance the competitive strength of fiber optic broadband, separately commit to expanding 
innovative value added service operations, and create 
business opportunities in the ICT industry to maintain our 
leading position in the high speed broadband market.Influence of Policy and Legislation 
From 2007, the NCC has reduced the X value for 
3 consecutive years with mobile phone fee reductions accumulating to over 14% and broadband fee reductions 
accumulating to over 19%. We are happy to see the rise 
of national broadband ubiquity and the narrowing of the 
digital divide and are committed to satisfying customers’ 
high speed broadband needs but we feel that related fee 
rates should respect the market mechanism.
Mobile broadband has become a world trend 
but currently Taiwan’s wireless spectrum planning is still unclear. The public’s misgivings about base 
stations and 3G Flat Rates have resulted in a minority 
of high volume users using most of the bandwidth 
resources. Thus telecoms face difficulties in base station 
establishment and ineffective allocation of resources 
which negatively impact the development of the mobile 
broadband industry. We continue to communicate 
with the competent authorities and hope the industry 
and government can cooperate to establish a healthy environment that is advantageous to mobile broadband 
development.
4G Spectrum Development Status
Regarding the developmental status of 4G 
licenses in our country, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications is currently conducting spectrum 
planning and the NCC is proceeding to develop draft 
rules for 4G licensing. Related government preparedness 
work is still proceeding. We will continue to observe the 
government’s licensing planning and policy development, 
actively conduct 4G technology R&D, and gather 
information on market development trends. Based on 
the future licensing plans and timetable of the competent authorities, we will actively seek licensing and construct 
a 4G network to provide services.Mastering Policy and Regulation
Any changes in policy or regulation may affect our operating results. In addition to maintaining good lines 
of communication with government and the competent authority, National Communications Commission (NCC), we also actively master related legislative dynamics in the Legislative Yuan. This includes the “Digital Convergence Development Project” developed with the ICT industry that concerns enhancing national competitive strength, an item to which we are paying close attention.RResponse34 35 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Customer ServiceWe influence the government to promote digital content industry policy and actively integrate the three 
resources of content, platform, and terminal equipment to merge cultural creativity and technology. Reading will no longer be limited by time or location and Taiwan's cultural creative industry will be brought to another peak. We will also comprehensively develop an operating mechanism and industrial structure that supports creativity to allow Taiwan to become the hub for digital content design, production, and distribution in the Asia-Pacific Region and enhance the competitive strength of the digital content industry and the nation.Create an Open Creative Platform
Chunghwa Telecom President, Shiao-Tung Chang enthusiastically 
participates in Internet Arena Finals Awards Ceremony.
National Champion of Deguang Catholic High School’s English Vocabulary Marathon for 2 consecutive years. 
TargetT
Open Innovation
To gradually establish a qualify promotion team, 
quality assurance center, and engineering process team 
at the Telecommunications Research Institute, we have 
used the international standards and organizational audit 
systems such as the ISO R&D quality system’s capability 
maturity model integration (CMMI), and system R&D 
workflow to establish an organizational standardization 
system, which coordinates with upper managers in 
review activities, product quality, R&D quality, and 
employee quality awareness.
  In addition to internal innovation, we view external 
partnerships equally to inspire industrial development. Primary achievements in 2011 include:
1. iEN service driven green energy industry and 
assisted suppliers to enhance techniques.
2. Assisted the Taiwan Telematics Industry 
Association to complete smart bus industry 
standards.
3. LED green illumination technology developed: 
Use technology transfer outsourced production to 
develop more multipurpose products.
4. Cultivated LTE/LTE-A technologies to master 4G development.
5. Deepened IPv6 technology: Provide Constructed compliance testing and interoperability testing 
platforms to companies, and completed large-
scale IPv6 testing with global ICP and ISP 
companies.Digital Amazon
We are committed to provide open platform 
and environment to allow Taiwan’s soft power to 
flourish. Currently we have developed an open digital 
platform that provides service interfaces such as 
publishing, transaction, account management, copyright 
management, etc. By doing so to facilitate the publishing 
and sale of these creativity, which assist the digital and 
cultural creative industries.
With respect to frequent cross-strait exchange: 
We look forward to a win-win situation in Taiwanese industry advantage of infrastructure, innovative R&D, 
technical readiness, and training ability to complete 
overall economic stability and market scale of mainland 
China. Hence, we continue to deepen the combination 
of cultural creativity, energy conservation and carbon 
reduction, medical, training, and tourism industries to 
derive more impressive services. 
Through annual "Telecommunications Innovation 
Application Contest," we promoted the trend of telecommunications innovation service, universities 
software potentials, and the ongoing flourished digital 
industry. We hope to attract much more innovations to 
enlarge contest scale, and spread across the strait to 
inspire innovation. These application contest has become 
the cultural creative and digital “Telecommunication 
Oscars” award ceremony, which allowed Taiwan to 
become a global innovation center.S
M
A
R
TEmployee Care
Strategy Caring for Employee Needs/ The Promotion of Harmonious Labor Relations
Management Human Resources ManagementAddress Talent Attraction and Retention/ Joy at Work, Happiness at HomeResponse Occupational Health and Safety/ Safety and Health Management and System Certification
Target Fulfillment of Environmental Education
Awards
Chunghwa Telecom was awarded a Gold Medal and the 1st National TrainQuali Prize, NTQP (NTQP) and TTQS.
The Taipei Telecom Operation Department, the Mobile Business Group, the Hsinchu Telecom Operation Department, 
and the Northern Taiwan Business Group received Certificates of Appreciation for their efforts in the peach promotion campaign.
In 2010 Chunghwa Telecom received an Excellence Award for Transportation Mobilization Preparation Operation 
Evaluation from the Ministry of Transportation and Communications.From Employee Care
to Corporate Excellence
Chunghwa Telecom is dedicated to employee care and provides employees with good benefits 
and we are also improving our manpower development policies on a long term basis. Ever since we started our corporate social responsibility efforts, we have been expanding our care for the families of employees and the whole of society. We are making the idea of “Joy at Work, Happiness at Home” a reality.
During the major “One Bike One” event in celebration of the 100th anniversary of ROC’s 
foundation, CEO Shyue-Ching Lu invited 7,000 employees and their families to join in this event from all around Taiwan and the outlying islands. With mobile uploading and location technology, “One Bike One” became a milestone in the history of our corporate excellence. 38 39 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Employee CareProtection of Human Rights
Our business spread throughout the country and 
the standard starting salary is higher than the required 
local wage. In 2011, Chunghwa Telecom employed a 
total of 24,664 personnel, with 17,644 male and 7,020 
female employees. To accommodate the needs for 
customer services and sales, we have contracted 3,612 
positions. To take advantage of the early retirement 
package introduced in early 2011, 367 employees chose 
to either leave their positions or retire. At the same year, 
we recruited 1053 elite new graduates. The employee attrition rate is 1.49%, with female employees making 
up 28.46% total. There were 93 more female employees 
than in the previous year and the percentage of female 
employees in managerial positions is on the rise and 
was 23.71% in 2011. 
To abide by the constitution, protect human rights, 
and uphold the spirit of the Act for Gender Equality 
accounted for more than half the entire body. In 2011, 
no discriminatory incidents were reported. According to Article 38 of the People with Disabilities Rights 
Protection Act, Chunghwa Telecom should employ 233 
persons with disabilities. In fact 757 such employees 
were actually hired, 3.25 times higher than the legal 
requirement. In 2010, we employed 51 aboriginals, and 
properly respect their unique cultural traditions.Channel for Complaint 
If an employee should observe conduct in 
their unit that is in breach of regulations or against the law, they may file a complaint or report it via 
the hotline, fax or email. The reported case will be 
investigated in accordance with corporate regulations 
and procedures. If such case is found to be true, the 
appropriate punishment will be imposed for the sake of 
the employees’ code of conduct, corporate discipline, 
company image, and stakeholder rights. However, no 
such human rights case was filed in 2011.Caring for Employee Needs
We believe that employees are the company’s most important assets and cooperative partners. Therefore, 
we respect every employee, with no differentiation with respect to gender, age, or race. Wages are also paid on the principle of commensurate wages for commensurate work. We are committed to improving the work environment, focusing on employee rights, respecting employee opinions, attending to employee needs, and continuing enhancements over communication channels and dialogue with employees.
Ratio of total number of employees to the number of managers
Year 2011
Gender Female Male Total 
Total number of 
employees 7,020 17,644 24,664
Ratio of total number 
of employees28.46% 71.54% 100.00%
Number of operation 
managers2,724 7,882 10,606
Ratio of operation 
managers25.68% 74.32% 100.00%
Number of staff 
managers432 2,225 2,657
Ratio of staff 
managers16.26% 83.74% 100.00%
Number of executive 
managers8 72 80
Ratio of executive 
managers10.00% 90.00% 100.00%
Number of 
directors3,164 10,179 13,343
Ratio of directors 23.71% 76.29% 100.00%Percentage of Female Employees and Female Managers
Female Employees (%)          Female Managers (%)          
2009                      2010                       2011 22.48                      23.04                     23.7128.17                     28.3                       28.46SStrategy 38 39 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Employee CareYear 2009 2010 2011
Total 
Employees 24,668 24,474 24,664
Average Age 47.66 48.21 48.68
Average Years 
of Service23.31 23.81 24.19Average Age and Years of Service of EmployeesThe Protection of Employee Rights
In line with our early retirement buyout, and 
employee career planning, retirement is pending for 
367 employees at this time, 276 male and 91 female. 
To ensure continuity and to pass on our expertise, we 
have recruited 1,053 new employees, 703 male and 350 
female, represents a turnover rate of 1.49%.
For the protection of employee rights, all company 
employees enter into a formal labor contract with the 
company. For those who have served for more than three 
months, but less than one year; more than one year, but less than three years; and more than three years, a ten, 
twenty, or thirty-day notice period is respectively in force. 
The company labor-management committee has also 
started to build a harmonious community relationship 
using a consultation and cooperation mechanism to 
ensure operational efficiency. We will start early to 
communicate the implementation schedule to the 
relevant units and personnel, and hold communication 
seminars with the corresponding union officials and personnel to ensure smooth organizational adjustment. 
This allow job transition and continuation base on mutual 
agreement, to realize a more refined integration service 
and a company image of harmonious operation.Smooth Communication Channels
We respect the rights of our employees and 
their interests and believe in effective communication. Employees not only enjoy the right to appeal, complain, 
and to Union membership, but the collective agreement 
also stipulates that labor-employer representatives 
from headquarters and all branches and subsidiaries 
shall hold at least one labor-employer meeting every 
3 months, with provisional meetings to be held if 
necessary. Labor representatives may be invited to staff 
appraisal meetings and attend evaluation meetings, business reports, etc. Also, the Board of Directors 
includes one seat for a Labor Director. In 2011, employee 
union membership reached 99.54%.
The Chunghwa Telecom Chairman and President 
hold regular meetings and telephone conversations with 
the Union Secretary General, Supervisor, and other 
Union representatives to maintain proper labor-employer 
communication channels. The labor-employer meetings 
are attended by 18 representatives (9 labors and 9 employers) and the chair is held by each side in turn. Six 
national labor-employer meetings and one provisional 
meeting were held in 2011, reaching consensus on many 
relevant issues.
Both labor and employer have sufficient voice 
at the meetings to express their concerns and interact 
positively to avoid conflict and realize harmonious labor- 
employer relations.The Promotion of Harmonious Labor Relations
Chunghwa Telecom is the only operator in Taiwan that has established a Union and signed a collective 
bargaining agreement with employees. This not only conforms to domestic regulations and the requirements of international human rights instruments, but also shows our determination to preserve employee rights. One seat in our board of directors has been reserved for a labor director, allowing the voice of the employees to be heard. SStrategy 40 41 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Employee CareHuman Resources Management
A number of training systems have been established to assist employees with the development of their 
professional skills. This not only enhances work efficiency and human resource application but advances the careers of the employees. Our internal training classes are very diverse, providing the higher learning required for employees at different levels and fields of work. All the agencies have personnel training teams as well to facilitate the planning and execution of personnel training and assist in the career planning and development of their colleagues.
Year 2009 2010 2011
Total Training Budget (NT$) 661,362,885 728,577,757 733,221,300
Per Capita Training Budget (NT$) 26,819 29,769 29,730
Total Training Hours (Hours) 1,927,751 1,979,407 1,613,248
Per Capital Training Hours 
(Hours)78 81 65Employee Education and Training
ManagementM
Profession Oriented Training System
We have specific professional skill training systems 
for the different technical and commercial professions. 
The training is oriented towards particular professional 
capabilities needed for work in many different areas. 
This develops job aptitude within short periods of time, 
increases work efficiency, and also provides replacement 
manpower where needed. In addition, to develop 
managerial capability for all levels, we are currently 
planning educational classes to develop management 
talent. After these plans are completed, professional skill-oriented training development will become more 
consolidated. 
We will establish a competence oriented employee 
training and development system that includes 16 
information categories with approximately 700 sub-
functional projects. This system is being implemented 
gradually and we expect that employees will be able to 
integrate the competence and capacity developed from 
the program to reinforce their skills on the job. Employee Training and Advance Learning
We emphasize career development for our 
employees. We have established different talent 
cultivation groups in all departments to design implement 
and develop programs at dedicated training institutions 
(the Telecom Training Institute and their Taichung and 
Kaohsiung campuses) in a systematic, layered, and well 
planned way. The Telecom Training Institute will offer 
competence related training courses each year. In 2011, 
the courses offered included core network, connection 
network, access network, and mobile communication technologies; value-added services, information 
technology, business management, operational 
management, and human resources management. In 
2011, a total of 1.61 million hours of employee training 
was given and NTD$ 733.22 million had been invested 
for the endeavor. 
To develop high level managerial talent for the 
future, we hold “high level management preparation 
workshops”. All agencies have personnel training teams to undertake the career planning and training 
development of their colleagues. This fulfills the needed 
education and training through planning, execution, and 
evaluation mechanisms, to increase the professional 
aptitude of our colleagues and improve service attitude 
and overall work performance.40 41 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Employee CareIndustry-Academic Cooperation
An “International Corporate Staff Training Plan” 
has been formulated with a focus on expanding our 
overseas markets. We have also established the 
“Chunghwa Telecom Southeast Asia Scholarship” for the 
development of competent overseas telecommunications 
personnel. Scholarships to the National Chiao Tung 
University are awarded annually to competent Southeast 
Asian and foreign students. 
The Telecom Training Institute initiated the 
“Advanced Telecommunications Network Technologies” program with the National Taiwan University. Fifty of our 
colleagues are trained over four terms in each class. 
Distinguished results are obtained which set a foundation 
for telecommunications network theory.
We also encourage employees to engage in 
lifelong learning, providing a maximum of NT$ 30,000 in 
learning bursaries for each term. In 2011, a total of 1,081 
employees applied for learning bursaries and NT$ 16.95 
million were invested.
Employee Satisfaction Survey
To be proud of being employees of Chunghwa 
Telecom, to determine the degree of employment 
satisfaction at Chunghwa Telecom, we have conducted 
employee satisfaction surveys since 2010. The surveys 
focus on measuring employees’ satisfaction with their 
workplace, benefits, and income, to achieve a composite 
understanding of employee satisfaction, impressions, 
and expectations in their different professional positions. 
According to the survey of 2011, 66% of employees are 
satisfied to work for Chunghwa Telecom, compared to 67% in the previous year. Health Promotion and Management 
Employees’ health is a company's wealth. It 
is our priority to provide a safe and healthy working 
environment. In 2011, our commitment included: 
1. Health examinations for employees and families: Instead of prevention, we provide medical care 
over legislative standard, provide free health 
inspection every year, and such benefit also 
extended to employee families at a lower health 
examination cost.
2. Sustain Employee Assistance Program(EAP): 
Through the EAP, employees are offered one-on-
one counseling services, which covers assistance 
for employees in resolving psychological, legal, 
and medical inquiries. In 2010, a total of 320 
persons received the services.
3. Continued to promote employee health: In 2010, we held a total of 192 health seminars, 22 sport 
competitions, 73 field trips and 18 sessions of 
health screenings; with total 31,173 participants. We also offered recreational facilities in a variety 
of sport item and other leisure clubs to encourage 
leisure activities.
4 . Balanced career life: Twenty-eight  
telecommunications clubs were established in 
2011 to encourage employee vacations and 
provides leisure and accommodation services. 
Each employee receives NT$ 8,000 for subsidies.Talent Attraction and Retention
We focus heavily on competent personnel. To assist them with balancing career development and family 
life, we took the initiative and implemented unpaid childcare leave systems. We also provide health and preventative care that exceeds legislative requirements. In 2011, the employee health care expenditure accounted for 0.14% of annual revenues.
The Chunghwa Telecom Women’s Basketball Team is our Goodwill 
Ambassador for promoting sports culture.
AAddress42 43 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Employee CareBalancing Work and Family
In July 2006, to assist employees with balancing 
their careers and families, we took the lead in 
implementing unpaid childcare leave. Female employees 
are paid childcare leave benefits equal to half their 
insured salaries during the leave period which may be 
for up to 2 years. After employees have received the 
maximum number of monthly employment insurance 
payments from the government, female employees can 
then begin receiving maternity leave benefits equal to 
half their insured salaries. Family leave, paternity leave, menstrual leave, nursing rooms, etc, are also provided. 
In 2011, a total of 168 persons applied for childcare 
leave, while 171 persons applied for unpaid childcare 
leave, and 157 persons applied for childcare benefits. 
This brought a combined retention rate of 83.4% of male 
and female employees accounting for 4.2% and 79.2% 
separately. Retirement Benefits
To enhance employee welfare and employee loyalty 
to the company, we enable corporate profit sharing by 
establishing employee mutual funds to ensure stability 
of employee lifestyle after retirement or resignation. 
Retirement is processed according to the Employee 
Retirement Pension and Separation Guidelines, the 
Labor Standards Act and the Labor Pension Act. For 
former employees who retired before privatization, their 
monthly pension payments are paid by the supervisory 
department from central government. For those who are entitled to pension payments as specified in the Labor 
Standards Act, a maximum pension contribution (15%) is 
paid to their pension funds each month and this process 
is supervised by the Labor Pension Fund Supervisory 
Committee at Chunghwa Telecom. For those employees 
who are in the Retirement Pension System under the 
Labor Pension Act, more than 6% of their salary (based 
on Monthly Contribution Wages Classification of Labor 
Pension approved by the Executive Yuan) is withheld for contribution to their individual labor pension account.
In 2011, Chunghwa Telecom donated $4.5 Million 
to the CHT Retirement Association to improve the care of 
retired employees. A dedicated website (http://www.chtr.
org.tw/) has also been established to promote healthcare 
and lifelong learning among retirees.Joy at Work, Happiness at Home
Only happy employees can provide a sincere and honest service to customers. We encourage employees 
to start families and initiate a new phase in their lives. Furthermore, our comprehensive retirement benefits are the greatest foundation and support for the families of our employees. To provide employees with more benefits, and to share business revenue, we have set up an employee stock ownership trust plan. 
Number of Employee Applications for Childcare Leave Benefits
Note:  because both men and women are qualified to apply for unpaid 
childcare leave, and only women are qualified to apply for maternity benefits, the former category has more applications.Childcare leave - Childbearing Leave ApplicationsUnpaid childcare leave - Unpaid Childcare Leave ApplicationsChildcare benefits - Maternity Benefit Applications168
155
132171
5554157
53 532009　　2010　　2011
The company has given their blessings to the newly wedded couples at group weddings which have been held for two consecutive years. 
AAddress42 43 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Employee CareSafety and Health Commitment
We promise to offer appropriate resources based 
on organizational risk. Our company continue to improve 
our safety and health facilities. In this way we prevent 
injuries and unhealthy practices in accordance with 
relevant law and regulations. We provide health and 
safety to employees, also for subcontractors and third 
parties. To persist the enforcement, we:
1. Follow the Safety and Health Regulations and 
Enforce Self-Management. Internalize daily 
operations as a part of company culture. We further need to benchmark under relevant 
international standards to realize safe and 
healthy.
2. Implement Hazard Identification and Enforce 
Risk Control. Identify and evaluate all unsafe and 
unhealthy practices to enforce control high-risk 
operations effectively.3. Strengthen both mental and physical health 
services. Increase the quality of health 
inspections; host promotion events to improve 
health care and willingness for employees.
4 . Encourage participation through open  
communications and available consultation; 
adopt ICT technologies to upgrade performance.
5. Create quality work places, continue on 
equipment improvement, strengthen safe and 
healthy practices, hence to ensure a safe, 
healthy, comfortable and friendly work place for 
employees.
6. Host labor safety training programs to raise 
safety awareness. Host on the job labor safety 
and health training programs, in accordance with 
the Labor Safety and Health Act.Occupational Health and Safety
The provision of a healthy and safe work environment is a non-negotiable obligation to our employees. We 
not only continue to improve various occupational health and safety management systems and maintain certification for them, but we have also completed the identification and assessment of different hazards and risks in the telecommunications industry. This has been done especially for work-related high risk operations. We employ control measures such as the use of work permits, to enhance risk control for high risk work and effectively prevent the incidence of occupational injuries.
Occupational Hazard Statistics (for enterprise under the Labor Safety and Health Act)
CHT Countrywide 
Number of disabilities 45 11,492
Frequency of Disabling Injuries 0.92 1.83
Severity of Disabling Injuries 148 143
Number of deaths 1 80
         Occupational Hazard Rate per
         1,000 Workers1.76 --
1.99 --
1.82 3.79
Note:1. Frequency of Disability = Times of disability x 10
6/Total person-work hours. Severity of Disability = Total workday lost x 106/Total person-work hours. 
Occupational Injuries Rate per 1,000 Workers = ratio of the annual average number of occupational injuries per 1,000 workers.
2.Source: Yearbook of Labor Statistics 2011, Council of Labor Affairs Website.Male
Female
TotalRResponse44 45 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Employee CareOHSAS18001 Certification
To ensure labor safety and health, we have 
established two labor safety and health organizations: 
1) The Occupational Safety and Health Committee, 
responsible for reviewing, coordinating and  
recommending related labor safety and health initiatives; 
and 2) Management Units for Labor Safety and Health, 
responsible for planning and processing and labor safety 
and health related services.  
Each member at the Occupational Safety and 
Health Committee serves a two year term and employers or their deputies are appointed as committee chairman 
to supervise affairs. At least one meeting is held every 
three months, with one additional provisional labor-
employer meeting if necessary. A total of four meetings 
were held in 2011. The committee has 27 members and 
in addition to the representatives of the business entities, 
the committee also has labor representatives, labor 
safety and health managers, labor safety and health 
related engineers, and healthcare professionals. Nine of the members are labor representatives, accounting 
for a third of the total. In 2011, the Occupational Safety 
and Health Committee discussed 20 labor healths and 
safety related issues in the meetings and all were solved 
satisfactorily. 
We proactively provide workplace related health 
and safety facilities and programs to establish safe, 
clean and comfortable work environments. Regular 
inspections are made to ensure the effectiveness of such management. We have established a health and safety 
management system based on the PLAN-DO-CHECK- 
ACT framework. By the end of 2011, 27 of 28 branches 
had received certification under the Occupational Health 
and Safety Assessment Series 18001. This means that 
despite an increase of operations across all our services, 
safety and health in the company is still notable. In 2011, 
the occupational injuries rate per thousand people was 
far lower than the industry average.Operational Safety Management
   We have completed the identification and 
assessment of the different hazards and risks associated with the telecommunications industry, and 
have adopted control measures such as the use of 
work permits for high risk situations such as working 
at heights, in confined spaces, manhole and tunnel 
excavations, hot work, live power lines, cranes and 
lifts, etc, to lower the risks from such work. The “Safety 
Enforcement Regulations for On-Site Operational Personnel” was drafted in 2010 and implemented in 
March 2011. The focus is on high risk work as mentioned 
above. In addition to enhancing onsite monitoring and 
management, we also supplement our information and 
telecommunications professionalism by including the 
recording of 3G cell phone images of on-site safety 
facilities and personal protective equipment before work 
is started. The pictures are sent to designated systems 
for real-time monitoring, so that we can observe risk control at high risk work sites and effectively use this as 
a means to prevent accidents.Safety and Health Management and System Certification
We have introduced an occupational safety and health management system and the system is being 
certified by external agencies. The management of employee safety and health is implemented with both a “standardized” and “systemized” approach to improve our operational quality and safety level.
OHSAS18001 Certification to upgrade 
labor safety and health.RResponse44 45 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Employee CareEducation and Business Activities
Article 19 of the “Environmental Education Act” 
:“Government agencies, state-run enterprises and 
institutions… all employees… shall participate in more 
than four hours of environmental education,” which 
appropriately echoes Article 15 of “Corporate Social 
Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE / 
GTSM Listed Companies”: “Listed Companies should 
establish a dedicated unit or assign dedicated personnel 
to environmental management to maintain the system 
and should hold environment education courses for their managerial officers and other employees on a regular 
basis.” To comply with these obligations in the future, we 
will begin implementing the following:
1. Four hour environmental classes for all 
employees every year.
2. Fusion between environmental education classes and major corporate activities.
Nine environmental education courses were held in 
2011 and 8,915 persons enrolled. 
Corporate Volunteer Exchange
Our “CSR Committee” includes an “Environmental 
Sustainability Group” and “Corporate Volunteerism 
Group,” enabling our colleagues from business locations 
across Taiwan to engage in environmental education and 
considerable experience has already been accumulated.
The Chunghwa Telecom corporate volunteers also 
participated in the Taiwan Energy Conservation Patrol 
initiated by Epson Technology and other corporations. 
This focuses on increasing energy efficiency within 
corporate operations and production processes to achieve the objectives of carbon reduction and 
to mitigate global warming. It is hoped that on-site 
inspections and the provision of energy conservation 
advice, given to the units inspected, will help us achieve 
maximum benefit for both environmental protection and 
corporate profit.Environmental Volunteers in “One Bike One” 
Our employees responded actively to the “One 
Bike One” event held to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the foundation of the Republic of China. The event 
attracted 110,000 bikers who simultaneously hit the 
road all over Taiwan. By reducing energy wastage by 
substituting body heat they fulfilled the ideal of “Energy 
Conservation & Carbon Reduction” by simply working 
out. The vigorous promotion of our CSR Committee 
resulted in a turnout of 7,428 Chunghwa employees 
and their families. In addition another 79 employees volunteered to help with other tasks at the event. 
Chunghwa Telecom also demonstrated innovative 
ICT technology in “One Bike One” by utilizing cutting-
edge cloud servers and databases to instantly locate the 
track and position of any biker with GPS-enabled mobile 
devices. Since our move into cloud service, we have 
been committed to combining innovative technology and 
heartwarming service to create new industrial value that 
incorporates sightseeing and ICT, and in turn allowed the Guinness record breaking moment (72,919 people rode 
at one time) to be shared using Internet technology, to 
show the world the Taiwan miracle of the cloud era. The Environmental Education Act as passed by the Legislative Yuan in May 2010 includes 26 articles aimed 
at imparting public education processes that improve the public’s knowledge, capability, attitude, and value system with respect to protection of the environment, and encourage people to focus on the environment and take action to achieve sustainable development.Fulfillment of Environmental Education
Environmental education and low carbon living biker workshops held in 
conjunction with “One Bike One.”TargetTEnvironmental
Impact
S
M
A
R
TStrategy Positive Action in Response to Change
Management Environmental Sustainability Management/ ISO International Standard Certification/   Implementation of Power Management/ Carbon Management Objective/ 
 Telecommunication Datacenter Energy Conservation/
 Impressive Energy Conservation Carbon Reduction Results
Address Water Resource Efficiency ManagementResponse Creating a Green BusinessTarget Safeguard our Beautiful Homeland
Awards
The HiNet Internet Service was the first telecom service provider in Taiwan to pass the ISO50001 Energy Management System 
Standard in 2011.
The iEN Intelligent Energy Saving Network Service received the Bureau of Foreign Trade MOEA (the first Taiwan Green Classic 
Model Award in 2011).
Chunghwa Telecom received the Taipei City Government Best Participation of Green Procurement Benchmark Enterprise Award in 2011.Chunghwa Telecom received the Best Participation of Green Procurement for Enterprise Award from the Environmental Protection 
Administration in 2011.
Chunghwa Telecom received the 2011 Golden Savings Award from the Taipei City Government.Chunghwa Telecom received the 1st Outstanding Energy Technology Service Provider Energy Saving Award in 2011. Chunghwa Telecom received the Bureau of Energy, MOEA Excellence Award in 2011.Chunghwa Telecom received an Energy Conservation Carbon Reduction Action Mark Award from the Environmental Protection 
Administration in 2011. 
Chunghwa Telecom was commended by the Department of Environmental Protection, Taipei City Government as the top
performing green store in 2011.
EARTH was awarded a Gold Prize at the 2011 Taipei Int’l Invention Show and TechnoMart Contest.Chunghwa Telecom received the Top Performing Green Store award in the “I like Green Stores Poll” event hosted by the
Department of Environmental Protection, Kaohsiung City Government 2011.From Autonomous Energy
Conservation to Green Opportunity
In a time when energy conservation and carbon reduction have become business core compe-
tence, we have introduced autonomous energy conservation to our offices and put enormous effort into datacenter energy conservation. In addition to these efforts, we are also using renew-able energy equipment to reduce energy consumption. 
As a result of our promotion of corporate social responsibility in 2011, our energy conservation 
benchmark for that year dropped by 17,658 kWh compared with that of 2007, this equals a ratio of 17.42%. In addition to reducing the impact of our business operation on the natural environ-ment, we developed iEN Intelligent Energy Saving Network Service products to conserve energy for businesses and organizations and create green opportunities. 48 49 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactThe establishment of Environmental and 
Energy Conservation Policies
Chunghwa Telecom is the most experienced 
and the largest of the integrated telecommunication 
operators in Taiwan. Our business covers three major 
types of communications: fixed networks, mobile, and 
data networks. These provide voice, ISDN, network and 
broadband services; intelligent and virtual networks, 
e-commerce and business integration, as well as other 
value-added services. As a leader in the Taiwanese 
market, we pursue growth and sustainable development 
while offering a more environmentally friendly and energy efficient telecommunications service. To 
sustainable development issues, we have incorporated 
environmental protection, energy conservation and 
carbon reduction, environmental stewardship, and green 
intelligent building, and formulated specific environmental 
and energy conservation management plans to improve 
environmental performance, and to define our direction 
towards sustainability.
We commit ourselves to the following  
environmental and energy conservation policies to fulfill these commitments: 
● Follow environmental regulations and promote 
self-regulated environmentalism 
● Improve energy efficiency to implement energy 
conservation and carbon reduction 
●Use green energy and employ green purchase● Develop green product and promote green 
economy
● Enhance ecological environment and green 
buildings
● Apply recycle and waste reduction to build a 
sustainable environmentParticipation in GreenTouch
The GreenTouch Consortium, formed in January 
2010, an organization devoted to the development of an energy conservation technology network at all 
levels, aim at boosting network energy efficiency by 
1000 times. They focus on increasing energy efficiency 
of ICT equipment, platforms, and networks. We had 
attended the autumn general conference, GreenTouch 
2010, held in the Netherlands by invitation, and 
joined a formal membership in January 2011. We 
have actively contributed to ICT energy conservation technology.Our contributions include the evolution of 
mobile network architecture and energy conservation 
technology in heterogeneous network architecture. We 
addressed the current evolution trends in commercial 
network architecture and introduced the vision of green 
telecommunications and our field of research. In addition 
we shared our energy consumption evaluation frame and 
analysis the benefits of energy conservation, which are 
all been well received.
International Conferences and Actions 
The 17 th session of the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), 2011, 
where agreements announced had a profound 
influence on greenhouse gas emission reduction. 
Hence for our counter measure is to head to the 
sustainable development, which means that active 
evaluation and response from the government is 
needed. So, we propose the “Chunghwa Telecom 
Environmental Sustainability Strategy and Object” to 
link with the “Golden 10-Year” for the implementation on environmental sustainability policy. Positive Action in Response to Change
In response to the risk of climate change, we have formulated a five-year plan (2011 - 2015) for the 
development of environmental protection strategy, energy conservation, and carbon reduction. In conjunction with the vigorous implementation of “office and datacenter energy conservation measures,” we have compiled and analyzed all data related to energy usage and paved the way for scientific management. SStrategy 48 49 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactThe EARTH Management System
We dedicated to environmental issues, to efficiently 
control our corporate environmental resources, we need 
to develop suitable green information systems that can 
clearly show the earth protection issues of the CSR.
Our major environmental protection projects 
in the environmental sustainability system (EARTH) 
include power and water management, greenhouse gas 
emission, resource recycling, and tree planting. This 
shows our emphasis on energy conservation, carbon 
reduction, and environmental protection. Establishment of the EARTH system began in January 2008, R&D 
resources were vigorously place to extend the EARTH 
system, which includes the following functions and 
effects: 
1. Energy conservation innovation: Creative ideas 
from all units upload results to the EARTH 
system to share with others, so as to learn 
together achieve environment protection. 
2. Performance evaluation: Performance is 
evaluated in a systematic and quantified way to 
encourage all units to maximize contribution. 
3. Power management: Applying collective power 
payments usage statistics, our system has 
control over 47,000 electricity registrations and 
980,000 entries of electricity charges. Replaced 
paper bills with electronic files, this not only 
facilitate process, but also reduced company 
resource requirements and provided analysis function that shows power usage trends, power 
factor statistics, and breach of over power usage. 
This allows better management, which meets our 
policy of reducing greenhouse gas emission. With 
the help of the exception notification function, we 
saved NT$5,470,000 in overcharges by the end 
of 2011.4. Water management: By applying electronic 
billing and collective payment from the water 
company and collating water usage statistics, 
our system has controlled over 1,000 water 
registration numbers and 38,000 entries of water 
charges. This reduces administrative operation 
and provides analysis function (including usage 
comparison, trends and history). With the help 
of the exception notification function, we saved 
NT$660,000 in overcharges by the end of 2011.
5. Carbon inventory: In light of risks related to 
carbon emission, EARTH provides carbon 
verification forms to help carbon inventory, 
promote carbon reduction measures, reduce 
operational risks, and enhance the corporate 
benchmark. We have saved approximately 300 
man-days, amount of traveling expenses, and 
carbon emissions from travel in all regions. 
This has helped us obtain ISO14064-1 carbon verification certification for past four years. 
6. Afforestation: An interface is provided for users 
to archive the information about  types of trees. 
Archived logs cover 240 types of trees in the 
Chunghwa Telecom parks, including 64,000 
entries of tree information in the database.
7. Water recycling management: An interface is 
provided for users to archive the information 
about the type, approach, responsible unit, and location of water recycling. Our logs show that 
over 14,022 metric tons of wastewater was 
recycled. 
8. Recycling management: An interface is provided for users to archive the type, amount, and unit 
for recycling. Logs cover 22 categories and 
9,706,844 entries of recycling.
 Environmental Sustainability Management
We are spearing no effort in our quest for environmental sustainability, energy conservation, and carbon 
reduction. We review and amend our different energy conservation programs every year and implement them under a budget ceiling. In addition, we combine energy conservation performance into the “Administrative Performance Assessment” and “Performance Evaluation on Power and Air Conditioning Equipment Maintenance” and include them in regular audits.ManagementM50 51 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactEnvironmental Management Certification
Certification under the ISO14001 environmental 
management system clearly demonstrates our 
commitment to environmental sustainability. It also 
offers many benefits, such as proof of environmental 
performance, more management confidence, reduced 
environmental management risk, better market 
competitiveness, regulatory and other compliance, 
continual improvement, and lower costs.Energy Management Certification  
The ISO50001 energy system management 
standard primarily aims at providing a necessary procedural framework for organizations and businesses by establishing certain guidelines and processes for 
compliance. This should allow them to maximize energy 
efficiency in a way that leaves their existing operation 
unaffected and closely aligned with their business 
operation strategy and objectives. When supplemented 
by the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Action) mechanism, not 
only can energy use in an organization be continuously 
improved, but the objectives of sustainability and 
environmental friendliness can be met by reducing energy cost and greenhouse gas emission. Our Data 
Communications Business Group acquired ISO50001 
energy system management certification in 2011 and we 
plan certification of the Telecom Laboratories for 2012.Year Execution Unit
2008 Southern Taiwan Business Group
2009 Mobile Business Group
2010Northern Taiwan Business Group 
Data Communications Business Group
2011International Business GroupTelecom Laboratories
2012 International Business Group
2013 Telecom LaboratoriesISO14001 Certification Sequence for Chunghwa Telecom Units
Year Execution Unit
2011 Data Communications Business Group
2012 Telecom Training Institute
2013 Enterprise Business Group
2014Northern Taiwan Business Group/ Southern Taiwan Business Group
2015Telecom Training Institute/ Enterprise Business GroupISO15001 Certification Sequence for Chunghwa Telecom UnitsISO International Standard Certification
We applied for two international standard certifications to provide a necessary internal procedural framework 
and establish guidelines and processes for the compliance of organizations and businesses. This should allow them to maximize their energy efficiency and fulfill the objectives of sustainability and environmental friendliness. All units will complete certification by the end of 2015.
Certification acquired before 2015 for Chunghwa Telecom Units.
ManagementM50 51 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactPower Management Plan and Objective
Our power management objective is to “implement 
energy conservation and carbon reduction plans to 
reduce power use in telecommunication datacenters 
and office buildings in 2012 by 12% as compared to 
that of 2007.” Thanks to proper control, this objective 
had already been met in 2011, when our corporate 
power consumption had decreased by 29,750 kWh 
in comparison to that of 2007, accounting for 22% of 
the total conserved electricity. From this point forward, we will continue to follow the government energy conservation and carbon reduction policies. With the 
2007 power consumption as a benchmark, we plan 
to further reduce our total power consumption by 8% 
by 2015. It is estimated that our power consumption 
will decrease 29,750 kWh by 2015 (excluding power 
consumption from business growth) in contrast to that of 2007, accounting for 22% of total conserved electricity.
YearCumulated 
office building 
energy saving 
(kWh) (A)Cumulated power 
consumption from 
business growth 
(kWh) (B)Power 
consumption 
growth vs. 2007 
(kWh) (C)Power saving 
vs. previous 
year (kWh) (D)Net power 
saving ratio (%) 
(E)Cumulated 
power saving 
(kWh) (F)Cumulated 
power saving 
ratio (%) (G)
2008 200 8530 4199 4531 3.37% 4531 3.37%
2009 1050 13167 4447 5239 3.89% 9770 7.26%
2010 1900 17832 3806 6156 4.57% 15926 11.83%
2011 2580 21435 4973 3116 2.32% 19042 14.15%
2012 3090 24902 5926 3024 2.25% 22066 16.40%
2013 3490 28200 6662 2962 2.20% 25028 18.60%
2014 3800 31103 7504 2371 1.76% 27399 20.36%
2015 4100 34000 8350 2351 1.75% 29750 22.11%Chunghwa Telecom Power Management Plan
Note 1: T = Base year 2007, 134,572 kWh. E=D/T, F=A+B-C, G=F/T. 
Note 2: Numbers for year 2012 to 2015 are target values. 
Note: Years 2012 to 2015 are target values.Cumulated power saving (kWh)
2009           2010          2011           2012    2013         2014        201530000
2500020000
15000
10000
5000
0
Year9770
4531159261904222066250282739929750Chunghwa Telecom Cumulative Power Management Target 
2008Implementation of Power Management
As a large enterprise, we have a high demand for power and make much effort in the promotion of energy 
conservation. We have taken an inside-out approach, starting with the energy conservation monitoring network in the biggest building in Taiwan, and then gradually improving the energy management and efficiency of the others. We hope that we can accumulate 297 million kWh of energy saving, that accounts for 22% of total conserved electricity, by the end of 2015.ManagementM52 53 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactCarbon Management Plan and Objective 
Our carbon management objective is to “bring 
our greenhouse gas emission level in 2012 back to our 
2007 benchmark.” As we continue to reduce power and 
fossil fuel consumption, we enjoy the benefit of lower 
cost for power and less greenhouse gas emission. Our 
greenhouse gas inventory for 2010 showed that our total emission for the year accounted for 905,095.14t-CO2e 
and also showed that by using the proper control we 
had met our reduction objective by a significant amount. 
In the future, we will continue this control so that our 
greenhouse gas emission can remain unchanged in 
2015 even as business grows.
Chunghwa Telecom Carbon Management PlanTotal Carbon Emissions (in 10,000 Tons)
2008        2009         2010          2011        2012  2013        2014        201598
9694
92
908886
Year94.6097.11
90.51 91.09 90.38 90.1189.88 89.60Chunghwa Telecom Carbon Management Objective (including business growth) YearCarbon 
emission 
from power 
consumption
CO2 (10,000 
Tons)Increased 
carbon 
emission vs. 
2007
CO2 (10,000 
Tons)Carbon 
emission from 
fossil fuel
CO2 (10,000 
Tons)Other carbon 
emission
CO2 (10,000 
Tons)Total carbon 
emissions
CO2 (10,000 
Tons)Carbon 
emission from 
business 
growth
CO2 (10,000 
Tons)Carbon 
saving vs. 
previous year
CO2 (10,000 
Tons)Cumulated 
carbon saving
CO2 (10,000 
Tons)Cumulated 
carbon saving 
ratio
(%)
2008 85.98 2.67 1.74 4.21 94.60 5.43 2.76 2.76 2.97%
2009 88.58 2.72 1.61 4.20 97.11 8.20 2.73 5.49 5.90%
2010 82.50 2.33 1.49 4.19 90.51 10.91 3.25 8.74 9.39%
2011 81.80 3.04 1.45 4.18 91.09 13.12 1.49 10.23 11.00%
2012 81.20 3.63 1.38 4.17 90.38 15.24 1.54 11.77 12.65%
2013 80.50 4.08 1.37 4.16 90.11 17.26 1.57 13.34 14.34%
2014 79.80 4.59 1.35 4.14 89.88 19.04 1.26 14.60 15.69%
2015 79.00 5.11 1.34 4.15 89.60 20.81 1.26 15.85 17.04%
Note: Years 2012 to 2015 show target values. 
Note: Years 2012 to 2015 show target values.Carbon Management Objective
Energy conservation and carbon reduction have always been the objectives of our efforts. We hope that 
we may use energy more efficiently and reduce our dependence upon electricity and fossil fuel while still maintaining business growth. The goal is to reach a carbon reduction ratio of 17.04% by the end of 2015.
ManagementM52 53 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactThe 5-year plan for telecomm datacenters
A 5-year plan for energy saving and carbon 
reduction in telecomm datacenters was made in 2008 
to address the impact of climate change on business 
operations and to take responsibility as a global citizen 
to reduce CO2 emission. The plan is outlined below:
1. Air conditioning temperature control: Specific 
temperature management standards as set 
for individual power consumption locations: 
datacenters, machine repair rooms, measurement 
workbenches, and offices. These standards 
are then incorporated into the POSS system 
for automatic monitoring as well as review and 
supervision by the energy saving management 
team of each unit. 
2. Improvement of SMR operation efficiency and 
reduction of energy consumption by increasing/
decreasing the number of operating SMR units 
according to their loading status.
3. Power usage control: Save energy and cost by 
auto-loading, auto-unloading, and timing control 
equipment with POSS.
4. Air conditioning segmentation: Control the use 
of air conditioning by segmenting individual air conditioning space and reduce waste in empty 
space and space with idle equipment.
5. Inverter installation: Adjust the operation 
frequency and save energy by adding inverters 
to the CC cooling water pumps and the power 
sources of cooling tower fans.
6. Cooling by external air ventilation: Replace the 
cooling systems of equipment with operating 
temperatures above 40ºC with external air ventilation.
7. Install modern condensing units in telecomm 
datacenters: Employ condensing units with a 
sensible heat ratio above 0.9 when installing 
new, or replacing old, air conditioning equipment 
in datacenters.
8 . Change airflow volume or adjust duct  
configuration: Adjust flow volume or duct configuration when adding new or replacing existing telecomm equipment in datacenters by 
adapting to the heat source distribution.
9. Remove or power off PCBs in disabled or backup telecomm equipment: Power off switches and transmission devices in datacenters or remove 
the PCBs.
10. Reduce the use of premium diesel in telecomm 
datacenters: Adjust the diesel power generator 
load test frequency from 2 to 4 weeks to reduce 
fuel consumption, noise and air pollution.
11. Lighting management in datacenters: Revise 
datacenter lighting from large to small segments 
based on the working requirements and install 
LED double switches with independent controls 
to make turning lights off easy.
12. Energy saving at base stations: Save energy 
by adopting site-dependent energy saving 
measures including: natural turbine ventilation 
equipment, a ventilation fan in addition to air 
conditioning, and higher temperature settings.
1 3 . PBXs replacement: Employ NGN_CN  
equipment, replace existing PSTN PBX, and 
expand NGN GW devices and functions.
14. Integrating transmission equipment: Replace 
early PDH and SDH networking equipment with NG SDH networks. Reduce field operation costs 
and energy waste in low speed and existing 
transmission networking devices by adopting 
ROADM, OXC and NG SDH transmission 
networking devices.
15. Replace access network equipment: Replace 
existing DSLAM equipment from Lucent, Nokia, 
Alcatel, Samsung and ECI by adapting to FTTx 
buildup and customer requirements. 
16. Incorporate energy saving performance in the 
Annual Maintenance Operation Performance Appraisal of Electric Air Conditioning Equipment.Telecommunication Datacenter Energy Conservation
Chunghwa Telecom has been established for over 60 years and we have tens of thousands of 
telecommunications datacenters. This means that there is much room for improvement. On the one hand, we work hard to replace inefficient old equipment with energy saving units that conform to international standards, and on the other hand, we are striving to change our habits in order to achieve energy conservation and carbon reduction goals. ManagementM54 55 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactIntroducing Renewable Energy
By taking the measures described above, power 
consumption was reduced by 3.634 million degrees in 
2011 against 2010; and 17,658 million degrees against 
2007 the baseline year. Compared to 2007, power 
consumption in 2011 was reduced by up to 17.42% and 
carbon by 108,067 tons. The 5-year plan for energy 
saving and carbon reduction in telecomm datacenters 
will continue and are expect to reach the goal of a 2% 
power saving each year.
To lower the impact of the business operation on 
the environment, a score of aircon( air conditioning) related energy saving measures have been adopted 
for the telecomm datacenters including energy savings 
by using inverters, high heat sensibility, and the use of 
supplementary cooling by external air. As of the end of 
2011, total installation of energy saving related capacity 
was: inverter modules 1,837.5 HP, aircon equipment 
with sensible loads 6,958 RT, high efficiency air-con 
equipment 1,230 sets (of capacity 2~3 kW respectively), wholly external-air based aircon equipment 430 RT 
and natural-air-based-and-aircon-supplemented 
equipment 75 sets. A total capacity of 23 kW wind and 
84.5kWp solar power generation equipment has been 
installed to use renewable energy, reduce impact on the 
environment, and improve our corporate image.Waste disposal from the Telecomm datacenters
The disposal of scrapped lead-acid batteries is 
regulated by the EPA as recyclable industrial waste. Disposal of hazardous substances and waste are 
common social liabilities of enterprises. To reduce 
pollution the recycling and disposal operations are 
outsourced by joint contract based public auction. The 
contractor must be a qualified service provider listed on 
the website of the Recycling Fund Management Board of 
the EPA to ensure legitimate management and disposal 
for the least environmental impact.
All the lead-acid batteries scrapped by each 
business unit are auctioned on site and proper documents for their disposal are filed for audit tracking. 
Delivery for recycling, removal, and disposal are all 
required to be entered on a lead-acid battery disposal 
form. There were 31,101 scrapped lead-acid batteries, 
with a total weight of 1,635,427 KG, disposed of in 2011. 
Total revenue generated by their recycling and disposal 
was NT$ 40,988,066, thanks to the higher value of recycled material which benefits the corporate operations 
while also fulfilling social responsibility.Impressive Energy Conservation Carbon Reduction Results
The fulfillment of energy conservation and carbon reduction in response to global climate change is one of 
the priorities of current government policy. As a responsible member of the global village, government will present a succession of relevant action plans, and policy objectives will also be amended accordingly to bring them into line with international trends. Chunghwa Telecom will also amend and update our policies every year with the firm vision of sustainability through high efficiency, high value, low emission, and low consumption. We will join efforts with others to continue to promote energy conservation and carbon reduction. 
Apply zero-carbon renewable energy to reduce operational carbon 
footprint. 
ManagementM54 55 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactWater Resource Management Plan and Objective
Our water usage primary includes facilities as 
restrooms and air-conditioning. As expanding business 
so the need for manpower rises, there will be less 
room for reduction. Instead, we turn to rainwater and 
cooling water recycling to meet the effective use of 
water. We also promote water resource management 
plans by setting up conservation measures, centralized 
the management of water bill, and the development 
of specific management objectives to realize water 
conservation.
I.Promote water resource conservation measures
1.Spray taps for washbasins. 
2.Restrooms with two-stage flushing devices. 
3.Office boiled water supply only in office hour. 
4.Minimum water usage to eliminate wastage. 
5.Rainwater is recycled to water plants. 
6. immediately contact to repair crew whenever a 
damage to water supply equipment. 
7. Reclaimed new water installations and process 
used water to the required standard water 
quality, hence to reused for other than drinking or 
physical use.II.Water use reduction objective1. Since 2007, we have been promoting water 
conservation measures, including programs 
for the use of rainwater, bathing water, and the 
recycling of condensed air-conditioning water. 
Recycled water is used for irrigation in parks, 
gardens and for washing sidewalks. We planned 
to reduce our water use by 2% each year and 
we had met our goal at the water saving of 8.6% 
level in 2011.
2. In the long run, we will continue on water 
conservation plans and expect to cut use more 
than 15% in 2015. 
III.Resource Recycling 5-year Plan 1. Our water resource recycling management has 
been incorporated into the EARTH system since 
2008. The statistics show a slight growth on 
recycled water from 3,733 metric tons in 2008 to 
7,936 metric tons in 2011. To further enhance the 
effectiveness, we planned a 5-year construction plan for new rainwater recycling systems to 
collect clean rainwater from the datacenter roof 
and ground. New condensed cooling water 
recycling systems will also be installed in the air-
conditioning systems in office buildings to recycle 
water. 
2. We expect to reach 1.5% recycling rate of our 
total water use before 2015.Water Resource Efficiency Management
Eco-efficiency has been proposed by WBCSD, and is aimed at improving effective resource utilization and 
lowering pollution. This indicator allows an understanding of the conditions of the internal environment and business performance of a corporation. In order to effectively lower the environmental impact of the telecommunications industry and increase resource utilization, we have introduced a number of energy conserving mobile products / services and programs designed to assist residential and commercial departments as well as the transportation industry in the reduction of carbon emission.
Chunghwa Telecom Water Resource Recycling Plan and Objective 
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Water 
resource 
recycling 
volume
(tons)3,733   3,820 7,932 10,000 12,000 15,000 20,000
Note: The years 2012 to 2015 show target values. 
The abandoned agricultural reservoir at the Telecom Laboratories has 
undergone landscaping and been transformed into an ecological lake. AAddress56 57 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactEnergy Conservation Action Plan and Measures
I. Telecommunication datacenter energy conservation 
plan and measures 
● Air conditioning temperature control
● Adjustment of operating SMR units 
● Power usage control 
● Air conditioning segmentation 
● Inverter installation 
● Cooling by natural ventilation
● High sensible heat in telecomm datacenters 
● Change air volume or adjust configuration 
● Remove PCBs in disabled or backup telecoms 
equipment 
● Avoid redundant of small power equipment (e.g. UPS, SMR) 
● Reduce use of premium diesel in datacenters 
● Lighting management in datacenters
● Energy saving at base stations 
● Set up solar photovoltaic equipment 
II. Office energy conservation plans and measures 
● Use high EER value equipment 
● Temperature setting to 26 - 28°C. temperature Difference should be lower than 5ºC.
● Use fans in air-conditioned rooms. 
● Turn off water-cooling unit and switch to air supply 30 
minutes before end of each day. 
● Install blinds for windows to reduce solar radiation. 
● Prevent cooled air from leaking out from entrances
● No central air conditioning on holidays or when a few 
working overtime.
● Convert water cooling and air supply system to inverter to control air volume. 
● Use fluorescent lamps with electrical ballasts.
● Use power-saving light bulbs. ● Apply light-color paint to enhance light reflection. 
● Optionally turn on lamp to reduce the number of light tubes when less lighting is required. 
● Reminds to turn off light. 
● Use daylight sensors to reduce lightning. 
● Install infrared sensing lighting. 
● Clean lighting devices regularly to increase efficiency. 
● Replace light tubes regularly. 
● Review the adequacy of environmental illumination and lighting allocation.
● Reduce available elevators when off-peak hours 
● Set auto turn off elevator ventilation and lighting to after 3 minutes of standby.
● Try to walk the stairs when moving between 3 floors.
● Use inverter elevator when new or replacing elevators. 
● Change elevator car cooling system to automatic temperature control. 
● Use eco-friendly electronics. 
● Turn off not in use electrical appliances to reduce 
power consumption on standby.
● Choose energy-saving office appliances.
● High voltage users to keep voltage fluctuation under 5% 
● Transformers should be positioned in well-ventilated locations and use fans if necessary. 
● Power factor compensators should be positioned at the low-voltage side and close  to the load end.
● Review the rationality of contract capacity to seek for reduction on peak-hour regularly. 
● Add power management and peak-hour control 
systems, and monitor on air-conditioning and 
lighting systems for the effective control of power 
consumption.
Water Recycling Volume (tons)
2009           2010          2011           2012    2013          2014        201518000
16000140001200010000
8000600040002000
0
Year373338207,93210,000120001500020000Chunghwa Telecom Water Resource Recycling Plan
Note: The years 2012 to 2015 show target values.AAddress56 57 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactOverview of Environmental Impacts
Input Output
Electricity Greenhouse Gas Emissions
2011 2011 2009 2009 2010 2010
5,175,525 
0.0421393.72971,649.53
1371 1369
905,095.14132
0.20147158.9
0.22
2011 2009 20106138.9
35.46422.3
4466.3 28.6645.3
2011 2009 2010630.2
345.16716.9
467256.72433.58
2011 2009 20105,254,697
5,108,176
0.0350.039
2011 2009 20102,23797.22,762.82,275
67.9892011 2009 2010910,878.540.24
5,372 5,36934.337.7
2011 2009 201017,072
2,996
6271,39313,022
5,867
3,2674,869
460623 8551,160
2011 2009 2010496,344593,462
1,31,310695,999
145,394210,295511,960
250,638
176,83143.22
5,033AAddress
Explanation 1:  electricity includes electricity usage from introduction of next generation 
telecommunications facilities
Explanation 2: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Electricity usageExplanation: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / GHG emissions volume■GWh   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio ■t-CO 2e   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio
■t   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio■m3   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio
■m3   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio
■GJ   ■Ecological Benefit Ratio
■1,000m 3   ■Ecological Benefit RatioGasoline
Explanation: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Gasoline usage
Diesel
Explanation: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Diesel usage
Energy Usage (Electricity + Petroleum Fuels)
Explanation 1: Total energy consumption (GJ) = total electrical energy usage (GJ) + total petroleum energy usage (GJ).
Explanation 2: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Total energy consumption (GJ)
Water Usage
Explanation: Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Water usageWaste
Explanation:  Eco-efficiency = Annual revenues / Waste production volume
Scrap Metal Recycling Volume
Explanation: batteries need to be used for 5 years or more and be in unusable 
condition before they can be disposed. Number of units recycled are related to infrastructure volumes of that year, and are not used as performance indicators■Batteries (units)     ■General Wires (Tons)■Scrap Metal (Tons)■Sheathed Cables (Tons)
End User Equipment Recycling Volume
Explanation:  ATU-R is the abbreviation for ADSL Transceiver Unit, Remote Terminal End; 
VTU-R is the abbreviation for VDSL Unit Remote■ATU-R  ■VTU-R  ■MOD Mechanical Box58 59 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactCreating a Green Business
As was announced in our 15th anniversary publication “To Build a Beautiful Sustainable Vision 2020,” we 
have set an objective for comprehensive (exclusive) green purchasing by 2015, and for active participation in international energy conservation research, as well the exploration of energy conservation and carbon reduction issues and implements corporate social responsibility. 
Promote Comprehensive Green Purchasing
We have announced that we will exclusively 
purchase “low-pollution, recyclable, and resource-saving” 
green products by 2015 and provide related services and 
activities. Comprehensive or exclusive green purchasing 
is defined as being compliant with government and other 
countries’ green marks and provision of self-proclaimed 
environmentally friendly products, services, and related 
activities. This includes the purchase of green products, 
the implementation of green purchasing by combining 
corporation and supply chains, the development of green products, and the provision of relevant services 
and activities. As we are vigorously promoting green 
purchasing, we have established the following annual 
green purchasing plans and objectives: 
Green Accommodation 
In order to promote green accommodation, green 
life, and hotelier recognition of its customer’s green actions, the Environmental Protection Administration of 
the Executive Yuan, ROC launched the “Join US! Let’s 
go green! ” project that allocates part of the amenity cost 
from hoteliers who recognize consumer green action 
to support non-government, non-profit organization 
environmental plans, keeping green actions going on and 
excel. Since 2008, our telecommunications clubs started 
to implement environmental policy in which the use of one-time disposable toiletries is stopped, bed sheets and 
towels are not changed for several consecutive stays, 
and so on in response to environmental protection.  A Green Building Label 
A Green building is academically part of the earth 
sustainable development policy. The “Green Building 
Promotion Program” promulgated by Executive Yuan 
defines seven environmental assessment indexes 
regarding buildings, which includes greenness, water 
conservation, energy saving, the reduction of CO2 
emission, the reduction of waste disposal, indoor environment, water resources, and improvement of 
sewage and garbage disposal. Therefore, we announced 
that we will apply for environmentally-friendly and 
energy-saving green building labels for new buildings 
and datacenters with a total cost fifty million construction 
budget. Our north branch has applied for diamond-rating 
green building label candidate certification. 
Waste Recycling
Recycling can reduce waste and raw material 
consumption. The recyclable material in the EARTH 
system 2011 version usually includes glass, paper, 
aluminum, asphalt, steel, printers, toner cartridges, and 
ink cartridges. The Chunghwa Telecom Green Purchasing Plan 
Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Purchase 
amount
(in 
hundred 
millions)2.06 4.1 8 10 12 14 16
Note: The years from 2012 to 2015 show target values. 
With the rise of the cloud service, we bolster energy saving at 
datacenters to achieve green ICT.RResponse58 59 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Environmental ImpactSafeguard our Beautiful Homeland
The Global climate has changed considerably in recent years. The number of storms is increasing, the power 
of typhoons has intensified, and even the summer temperature keeps hitting record highs. To relieve the pressure on the gradually depleted natural resources, countries all over the world are committed to energy conservation and carbon reduction activities. Faced with deterioration of the ecological environment and an imperious energy crisis, we need to do whatever we can to contribute to the safeguard of our beautiful homeland. 
Environmental Information Disclosure  
 ● Implement annual greenhouse gas inventory. Obtain 
ISO14064 verification and certification. 
● Respond to the annual Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire. 
● Respond to environmentally related issues in the annual Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) 
questionnaire. 
● Respond to the Common Wealth Magazine and Global View Magazine questionnaires. 
● Publish the CSR report (environmental protection): 
Provide data on greenhouse gas inventory, power, 
water, and fuel consumption, as well as waste 
recyclables generation.
Improve Energy Use Efficiency 
● Integrate datacenters: Merge and exploit datacenter space. 
● Add iEN to buildings: Incorporate iEN Intelligent Energy Saving System into new datacenter construction. 
● Save cooling energy: Use high-efficient and air-conditioners, and cold/hot channel air-conditioning 
systems in the datacenters. 
● Green building and accommodation: Use green materials for newly constructed datacenters or 
buildings.
● Solar water heaters: Install solar water heaters in 
Telecommunications clubs. 
● Recycling: Set up rainwater, underground, and condensed cooling water recycling systems.
● Environmentally-friendly LED bulbs: Internal office building trial plan.Green Energy 
● Photovoltaic system: 157.06kWp capacity System 
constructed in 2011. 
● Wind power: 26.6kWp capacity built in 2011. 
● Fuel cell: Pilot program with the Industrial Technology 
Research Institute, 15kWp capacity system built in 
2011. 
Autonomous Environmental Protection ● Green purchasing: 800 million NTD green purchasing 
target in 2011 to import green purchasing data 
into EPIS, also been imported for the sustainable development system. 
● Vehicle energy conservation and carbon reduction: Replace old vehicles with environmentally friendly, and 
use electric vehicles for trial. 
● ISO14001 management system: Certifications for overseas branches and laboratories in 2011. 
● Clean homes, energy saving office, health management system, car-free days, and paperless ODAS. 
● Energy conservation service team: Provide to help 
SMB or disadvantaged. 
● Industrial waste recycling: Set recycling goals. 
● Environmental award summary: Annual enterprise 
environmental protection award, energy-saving gold 
award, and Ministry of Economic Affairs energy 
conservation award. 
Value-added Products and Services  
● Electronic billing: Features environmental protection, 
promote with marketing section.
● iEN(Intelligent Energy Saving Network Service) and promote eight energy-saving categories.
● Mobile device recycling: Recycle bins are available at service centers in line with the promotion of waste 
recycling. 
● Assist suppliers to apply for product eco-labels.TargetTSocial
Investment
S
M
A
R
TStrategy Concentration on Digital Opportunities
Management LBG Social Contribution AssessmentAddress Minimize the Digital GapResponse Project Implementation ResultsTarget Digital Inclusion to Create Shared Value
Awards
Awarded the Excellent Performance and Outstanding Contribution trophy by BCSD-Taiwan, in its 2011 ONE
Campaign.
Received the Enterprise Citizen of 2011 award of the Commonwealth Magazine again and ranked by it as one of the 
best future and new value telecomm carriers in Taiwan.
Chairman Lu was honored by the President in the General Recognition Assembly for Japanese Earthquake
Humanitarian Aid Activities.
Won the Sports Supporter Gold Medal in the Sponsorship Category of the Sports Committee of the Executive Yuan.Attended the 2011 Listed Companies Expo and won the enterprise society responsibility excellence award, and also 
passed CG6006 advanced corporate governance system assessment certification.From ICT Technology
to Job Opportunities forDisadvantaged Groups 
Job opportunities for disadvantaged groups often stem from regulations. However, they need 
more opportunities and positions beyond those the regulations can offer. 
Since our devotion to corporate social responsibility, we have put warm creativity into our social 
investment by establishing Chunghwa Telecom EYE Social Innovation Call Center. Withinnovative technological breakthroughs, visually challenged people can skillfully use customer service information system and efficiently carry out counter service satisfaction telephoneinterviews. We could only offer inadequate assistance to visually challenged people in the past, but now we can give them pride and dignity at work! 62 63 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Social InvestmentSix Major Causes of the Digital Gap
The digital divide in today’s society is primarily due 
to the following:
● Geographical gap: a gap that results from people being 
in urban and remote areas.
● Economic gap: a gap that results from people having 
different levels of income.
● Knowledge gap: a gap that results from different levels 
of knowledge between different groups of people.
● Disability gap: a gap that results from the general 
public and disabled persons.
● Health gap: a gap that results from people of different 
age groups or health conditions.
● Gender gap: middle aged and senior women suffer 
from significant disparities when using information 
and communications services as a result of traditional 
notions of family care. 
Chunghwa Telecom had proposed many solutions 
to address these digital gaps. In the future, we will 
actively engage in social innovation to address these issues.Five Major Aspects of Digital Opportunities
Based on the information and communications 
characteristics of Chunghwa Telecom, the two major 
missions of social investments from Chunghwa Telecom 
and the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation are the 
”reduction of digital disparity and the creation of digital 
opportunity”. 
Chunghwa Telecom’s commitment on this issue 
involves diverse social investments over five aspects. 
“Hardware infrastructure” is the foundation for modern 
people’s communication. “Product or service donation” allows communication technologies to properly utilize 
their values. “Research, development, and innovation” 
focuses on assisting disabled persons with sharing 
convenient communication. “Corporate volunteerism” 
allow our employees to directly utilize their capabilities 
and participate in community building. Meanwhile, 
“Chunghwa Telecom Foundation” is the pioneer in our 
endeavor to create digital opportunities.Concentration on Digital Opportunities
In the age of technological progress, the “digital divide” has created unfair conditions in education and 
employment opportunities. Building on the characteristics and core professional capabilities of the telecommunications industry, our social investments are focused on “reducing the digital divide” and “creating digital opportunities.” We are also significantly devoted to introducing “corporate volunteers” to participate in localized community services and actively assist with the creation of digital opportunities in local communities.
Creation of Digital Opportunities
Chunghwa Telecom Solutions
Geographical 
gapIncreased availability of services, etc
Economic gap Communication incentives for low
income and minority groups
Knowledge Gap Computer classes for adults, etc
Disability gapCustomer service for visually impaired
persons
Health Disparity GPS, etc
Gender gapDigital Good Neighbors
Provide female community members with 
information education courses SStrategy 
Research, Development, and Innovation
Donation of Services / Products
Construction of Hardware InfrastructureCorporate Volunteer ServicesChunghwa Telecom FoundationCreation of Digital Opportunities
Education Industry Culture Non-Profit62 63 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Social InvestmentLBG Social Contribution Assessment
We have always been committed to our corporate vision of “utilizing society to care for society.” Not only are 
we Taiwan’s most significant composite telecommunications company with networks and services across Taiwan and its outer islands, our corporate vision further shapes our self-recognition over social contributions. Over the years, we have continued to apply our core capabilities to create concrete values for Taiwanese society and assist people to increase the quality of their lives.
Social Investment Statistics
Since 2008, we gradually increased our social 
investment amounts. In 2010, social investment 
increased 20% from 2009. Also, we improved our 
statistics measures: the new section of “management 
expenditures” has been added to social investment 
categories to allow costs transparency associated with 
non-profit activities. In 2011, cash donations accounted 
for 16.3%, product and service donations for 82.5%, 
management expenditures for 0.9%, and volunteer costs 
for 0.3%. We reduce total social contribution expense but maintain other investments is because we improved 
our management by cutting down manage costs and 
unnecessary expenditure.Social Contribution Assessment
In 2010, we adopted the London Benchmark 
Group’s (LBG) model to assess the utility of social 
investments. This model is committed to quantifying the 
effects of social investments. This model had been used 
for over 18 years internationally, which had been widely 
used by 150 corporations.
According to the LBG model:1.Form targets: community / corporation
2. Activity type (classified by motivations)
3. Investment value : total monetary value, physical objects, employee hours and planning, and 
management costs
4. External resource integration: community projects 
result from other resources
5. Community benefit: performance assessment of 
project results for communities
6. Commercial benefit: performance assessment of project results for commerce
7. Assessment of effects on communities / 
corporations 
Quantify community investments can helpus 
engaged in optimal resource allocation and avoid 
repetitive resource investment. Thus, financial and non-
financial investment can be combined effectively, while 
multitudes of stakeholders can be satisfied at the same 
time to create more effective social contributions. The 
priorities of social participation for us will enhance on 
volume management and effective communication.Type of Social
Investment2009 2010 2011
Cash
Donations165,044 273,778 260,934
Product or 
Service
Donations1,391,422 1,470,014 1,324,955
Management
Expenditures------ 131,395 14,110
Volunteer Services 
Man Power Cost------ ------ 4,863
Total 1,556,467 1,875,187 1,604,862
Percentage of 
Business Revenues0.84% 1.01% 0.83%
Hours of Corporate 
Volunteer Services 
(Hours)41,979 147,083 28,360Social Investments (Unit: Thousands of NT$)ManagementM64 65 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Social InvestmentDigital Expression.Digital Communication 
The Chunghwa Telecom Foundation (CTF) was 
established to improve the digital gap between urban 
and rural populations, social segmentation, the rich and 
the poor, education levels and dissemination as well 
as to balance the overuse of information technology 
for better physical and spiritual health. Based on the 
vision of “Leverage the computer for everyone’s benefit”, 
CTF started to help its Digital Community’s members 
in Taiwan in digital presentation and communication 
with digital tools. We believe that digitalization is the communication platform and media of the new generation 
and the best channel for voicing to the external world. 
With various interactions and learning, more information 
application opportunities are opened when cross time 
and space information retrieval becomes possible.
Telecomm Infrastructure in Remote Areas
The CTF has been undertaking the construction 
related to popular services by fulfilling its society 
responsibility, narrowing the digital gap between urban 
and rural communities, and promoting economic growth 
of remote and tribal areas:
1. Complete 12 tribe wideband access point 
construction to improve digital communication 
popularization services in non-economic regions 
in year 2100.
2. Working together with NCC to identify locations 
for 10M communication line installations 
in 81 remote counties’ 716 villages for the 
implementation of wide band policy in remote 
areas in the future.
3. Assist the NCC in a speed improvement survey 
for the 173 DOC points provided by the Ministry 
of Education and 99 remote medical points 
provided by the Department of Health to facilitate 
wide band networking and medical care of citizens in remote locations.Continuous Feedback
Chunghwa Telecom had always played pivotal roles 
in the communications and networking field. However, 
we are not only thinking about market leadership. Of 
greater importance is how to give back to society and 
fulfill our corporate social responsibilities.
As the community itself and its requirements 
differ, the CTF assists local communities in building 
up their digital application capabilities with respect to 
learning and education, industrial economy, and caring 
for humanity. In 2011, the CTF donated 66 wide band communication lines and 70 computers, to start digital 
infrastructure creation, to promote and support a range of 
computer training programs. Further learning programs 
were extended, to a total of 934 hours of computer 
courses, based on themes of local caring and focuses of 
community development. The entry level courses provide 
trainees with systematic studies in their initial contacts 
with digital equipment, the daily life based document 
applications equipped trainees with a more efficient object processing mechanism, and the advanced 
computer certification courses give trainees the chance 
to challenge  themselves  
and to become 
recognized.Minimize the Digital Gap
Chunghwa Telecom continue to assist the government with implementing increasing telecommunications 
availability and services. Also, we have established Chunghwa Telecom Foundation to fulfill the primary missions of reducing the digital gap, assisting local cultural industries, and participating in community life. Starting from communities, we continue to assist local cultural industries and participate in community life by combining caring companionship concepts with Chunghwa Telecom’s core professionalism.
Care and service around every corner in the community, leaving smiles 
of the faces of the children. AAddress64 65 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Social InvestmentCTF cooperate with the ADOC 2.0 
Plan on 2008 and became one of its non-
governmental sponsors. We created the 
ICT-based Remote Working for the Visually Impaired project to realize the ADOC 
2.0 vision, fulfill the enterprise’s social 
responsibility, decrease the digital gap, and create digital jobs. Start from January 
2009, various tasks includes: launch 
the Remote Call Center for the Visually Impaired, develop tele-market research 
systems and a Chinese dictation tool. Also, 
by integrating our ICT technologies, we enhance system with English interface to 
supplement foreign user, which reach the 
goal of assisting visually impaired workers.
CTF is good at making the most of 
various information and communication tools and in breaking through existing limits. In addition to penetrating domestic 
communities CTF is replicating its 
successful experience in international societies. Cooperation with the Blind 
Student Resource Center, TKU, a natural 
extension from participation in the Asia-Pacific Digital Opportunity Center 
ADOC2.0, and three years of R&D brought the EYE Society Innovative Call Center 
into life on 2011. The EYE center is aimed 
at helping the visually impaired obtain work 
and promoting business society innovation, as well as ensuring its sustainable and 
independent operation to fulfill our social 
responsibility of assisting the visually impaired obtain employment. This ICT 
technology model has been replicated in 
Beijing, China, and in the Philippines. The constitutional interpretation made public 
on 2008 allowed the sighted to compete 
with the visually impaired in massage 
jobs depriving the 
later of a protected job type. On 2011, 
the Legislative  
Yuan passed an  amendment to  
the Disabilities’  
Rights Protection Law and gave the 
visually impaired 
new protection  as call center  
representatives.  The EYE not only secured the Chunghwa 
Telecom customer satisfaction tele-
interview jobs but also managed to get 
the visually impaired services outsourcing project of the 1999 Taipei City Government. 
We expect that the EYE project may serve 
as a model for enterprises in realizing the new act, Council of Labor Affairs, local and 
central government agencies, legislators, 
disadvantaged groups, to name a few, that are interested in taking advantage of this 
regulation.
In 2009, the CTF started working 
together with the Remote Tutoring Team of the Fu Jen Catholic University to create 
a new learning journey for school children in remote locations. In 2011, the Remote 
Tutoring Team conducted 1-to-1 or 1-to-
2 online tutoring courses with the Good Shepherd Foundation, Banqiao, Ailiao 
Cram School, Pingdong, and the Fenglin 
Church, in Pingdong. It allowed students and teachers to communicate instantly and 
in a more systematic way. It also made 
it possible for teachers to more closely monitor the students’ learning status and 
progress using the tutoring reply log.
Although students and tutors can 
only learn and communicate in separate locations, they can meet and talk in regular 
“Good to See Each Other” and “Summer Classroom” and “Winter Classroom” 
during the vacations. Well organized pre-
planning and designed material gives students more learning opportunities, 
while most of the tutors of the program 
are college students who also received valuable experience by contributing what they had learned.
In addition to the remote  
learning project on campus and remote communities, the CTF tried to have 
more people understand the essence 
of remote tutoring and the requirements of remote communities for education 
resources. In November, CTF will co-host 
a Meet and Share forum with the South village at Taipei Guangdian as part of the 
Council of Indigenous 
Peoples’ 2011 Pure and Original Aboriginal 
Cultural Festival Series 
of Events. This forum has two agendas: the 
one is to share with 
the participants how university students  
and schoolchildren in 
remote communities met each other using 
digital technology, and 
the other is to have more people know the meaning of remote tutoring and the needs of people on the 
other side of this society by sharing the 
core values of this program.
College students involved in this 
remote tutoring program come to treat school children in remote communities in exactly the same way as their own 
brothers and sisters after long time tutoring 
and learning.EYE Society Innovative Call Center
Remote learning for Education at Zero Distance
Continued focus on disadvantaged children in remote areas, 
inspiring them to better their lives. 
AAddress
CEO Lu and Tamkang University Vice-President unveil the “EYE Social Innovation Call Center”. 66 67 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Social InvestmentProject Implementation Results
Our vision behind initiating the “Digital Good Neighbors” project in 2006 was: allow everyone to “use 
computers well,” so that “computers can serve well,” and allow everyone to “use the internet well,” so that “the internet can serve well.” The final objective is that people can “use opportunities well,” and that “opportunities can serve well.” Over the last several years, Chunghwa Telecom’s employees across Taiwan continued to provide uninterrupted service assistance, and our corporate promise and commitment to creating digital opportunities have won recognition from local authorities and local residents alike.
Stable Growth of Digital Good Neighbors
In order to help residents in remote areas in digital 
disparities, Chunghwa Telecom had been running 
the “Digital Good Neighbor” project for years. As well 
as computer, network, communication equipment 
sponsored, and a long term partnerships with local non-
profit organizations. Up to 2011, we had set a total of 63 
“Digital Good Neighbors” to promote computer education 
(up to 934 hours of computer training courses), 
initiate volunteers and assist industrial development. 
Since Chunghwa Telecom works closely with all the establishments and implement units, those mature 
“Digital Good Neighbors” are capable of devise their own 
class contents appropriate for their communities. They 
also proactively discuss class content with the Chunghwa 
Telecom Foundation, which ensured the classes were all 
conducted properly and has all yielded significant result.
Youth Volunteers in Remote Communities
The has been combining youth volunteers in 
community services from Chunghwa Telecomm since establishment. In recent years, students are encouraged, 
both in Taiwan and overseas, to engage in regional 
or global social services not only for their limitless 
creativities but also in anticipation to increase their 
liability and overcoming challenges through service to 
society.The CTF works together of local universities 
student clubs to host camps under the “Good Neighbor” 
project with activities that are suitable for school children’s and with local characteristics, or programs 
focusing on information education, or landscape ecology 
assistance, or demonstrate scientific knowledge with 
balloon creativity and so on. All these bring joy to school 
children in remote locations and enable youth volunteers 
to experience an different life.Community Industry and Cultural 
Heritage
Based on the concept of “Deep Community 
Penetration”, the CTF continues to work with individual 
communities to promote the cultural industries in a 
sustainable manner and to be a growing partner of 
them. The CTF manages to cater ideas by the design 
of suitable development project for the community that 
close to the industry trend.
Starting with the exhibition and sales of “enterprise 
gifts” in 2006, the “little mart” in 2007, the “summer 
culture and creative mart” in 2008, the “CHT love convey mart” in 2009, the theme campaign of “spot .reddening 
Taiwan” up to the establishment of “Taiwan's hot spot” 2011, the CTF combines nine community industries and 
more than fifty exclusive local arts and crafts, organic 
product, foods and fine gifts, by introducing product 
features, design concepts, manufacturing processes, 
and backgrounds of the creators. In addition, the CTF 
continues to sponsor physical exhibitions of products 
made by individual community industries to combine with virtual exhibition platform for more exposure. 
By understanding and learning opportunities from 
community industry, we promote interactions between 
workers and the public, creating business opportunities 
for aboriginal villages, and assist the promotion and the 
continuous of domestic culture.
In addition, community industries also show up in 
all the key events of CTF in 2011. A total of NT$ 220,000 
of product sale from community industries to expose community industries’ products, assist their development, 
improve their visibility and popularity.
The CTF also hired local designers for the R&D 
packaging and products to highlight industry spirit 
with modern design concepts as well as injecting new 
creativity and features so to reach the goal of advanced 
industry and sustainable business.RResponse66 67 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report Social InvestmentDigital Inclusion to Create Shared Value
In an ICT society where information communication has become an inseparable part of people’s lives, we are 
committed to building a trouble-free communications environment and to innovating our service thinking with information and communication technology to share value with the people. In the long term, we will establish comprehensive digital inclusion strategies and promote digital inclusion action plan performance indicators step by step. 
Four Aspects of Digital Inclusion Strategy 
In our disabled digital inclusion strategy, we 
leverage ICT together with discounted plans to fill 
the service gap for all the disabled groups. We are 
devoted to the development and provision of barrier free 
communications equipment oriented to improve their 
lives, education, and employment. The advancement in 
information and communication services also allows us 
to assist elderly people with chronic disease or those in 
need of special care. We offer disadvantage groups and 
low-income group cheap plans and remote assistance for the installation of communications equipment. We 
also provide the public a sufficient education courses 
as a learning channel in changing information and 
communications discipline. These assist people to 
learn how to use a wide array of smart communications 
devices and value-added services through mobile 
devices, websites, and service locations. We also hold 
all kinds of computer training courses in every county.
We belief that the provision of information and 
communications services for remote area is not subject to terrain or distance. We continue to enhance the 
accessibility of our mobile communications network 
and build dual-routes in remote areas to ensure 
communication. We will also strengthen mountain and 
outlying island communications by satellites.
 Comprehensive Inclusion Action Plan 
We define four aspect of telecom performance 
assessment according to different groups and priorities: 
1. For disadvantaged groups: trouble-free 
communication use, life quality improvement, 
disadvantaged group employment, social change 
in the community, and enhance image.
2. For low-income groups: easy to use, affordable 
rates, life quality improvement, social change 
inside community, equipment utilization, revenue, 
and enhance image. 
3. Public education by telecom equipment and 
services: course integrity, service course for 
attentive to customer, course utilization, revenue, 
social changes in community, and enhance 
image. 
4. Infrastructure improvement in remote areas 
and outlying islands: basic communications 
coverage, high-speed wireless broadband 
coverage, guarantee of smooth communication, improvement of user life, equipment utilization, 
revenue, enhance image, social change in the 
community and community environment.
The provision of diverse learning programs for everyone to be able to 
make use of information and communications services. 
We promise to improve the telecommunications infrastructure in remote areas and outlying islands on an ongoing basis to ensure smooth communication. TargetTGP5008 Issue 4 DRAFTSGS TAIWAN’S REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES IN THE
CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO.,LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT FOR 2011
NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION
SGS Taiwan was commissioned by Chunghwa Telecom Co.,Ltd (hereinafter referred to as CHT) to conduct an
independent assurance of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report of 2011. The scope of the assurance,
based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the text, and data in accompanying
tables, contained in this report.
The information in the CHT’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report of 2011 and its presentation are the
responsibility of the superintendents, CSR committee and the management of CHT. SGS Taiwan has not been
involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the CHT’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report
of 2011.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of
verification set out below with the intention to inform all CHT’s stakeholders.
The SGS Group has developed a set of protocols for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports based on current
best practice guidance provided in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the
AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). These protocols follow differing options for Assurance depending the
reporting history and capabilities of the Reporting Organisation.
This report has been assured at a Type 2, High level of scrutiny using our protocols for:
evaluation of content veracity;
evaluation of the report content and supporting management systems against the AA1000
Accountability Principles (2008);
evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines(G3.1 2011).
Evaluation against the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard (2005).
The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research; interviews with relevant employees at
headquarter and operational sites of CHT in Taipei, Taiwan; documentation and record review and validation
with external bodies and/or stakeholders where relevant. Financial data drawn directly from independently
audited financial accounts has not been checked back to source as part of this assurance process.
STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than
140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality,
environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance.
SGS Taiwan affirms our independence from CHT, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the
organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders.
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this
assignment, and comprised auditors registered with QMS, EMS, SMS, EnMS, GPMS, SA 8000, GHG
Verification Lead Auditors and experience on the SRA assurance service provisions.
ASSURANCE STATEMENTGP5008 Issue 4VERIFICATION/ ASSURANCE OPINION
On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, we are satisfied that the
information and data contained within CHT’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report of 2011 verified is accurate,
reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of CHT sustainability activities during 01/01/2011 to
12/31/2011.
The assurance team is of the opinion that the report can be used by the Reporting Organisation’s Stakeholders.
We believe that the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting.
The report is the fourth to be assured by an independent assurance team and CHT has taken a bold step by
offering the report to evaluation against both Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 guidelines and the AA1000
Assurance standard. This shows a deserved confidence in their reporting process.
In our opinion, the contents of the report meet the requirements of Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Application
Level A+and AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) type 2, high level.
AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES (2008) CONCULSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Inclusivity
CHT has demonstrated a strong commitment to stakeholder inclusivity and stakeholder engagement. A variety
of engagement efforts underpin the organization’s understanding of stakeholder concerns, and its ability to
integrate them into its decision making processes. This is demonstrated by surveys and communication to its
employees, consumers, investors, local communities, suppliers, media, NGOs and other stakeholders. CHT has
also shown its direct engagement its stakeholders via set up meetings and had dialogue directly between the
management of CHT and stakeholders and to respond questions raised by stakeholder promptly. For future
reporting, CHT may consider continuing the proactively direct engagement with stakeholders.
Materiality
CHT has established appropriate processes for determining issues that are material to the organization
implemented appropriate process for determining issues that are material to the organization. Formal review
has identified and direct engagement with stakeholders and those issues that are material to each group,
moreover the report has addressed theses at an appropriate level to reflect their importance and priority to the
identified stakeholders. For future reporting, CHT might consider profiling the sustainability impacts and
performance of organization’s business in more detail.
Responsiveness
The report cover comprehensive response to the issue and stakeholders concerns relating to CHT’s activities.
Continuing direct engagement with identified stakeholder groups to be considered in future reporting.
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORTING GUIDELINES (2011) CONCULSIONS, FINDINGS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
Principles, Standard Disclosures and Indicators
The report, CHT’s Corporate Sustainability Report 2011, is adequately in line with the Global Reporting Initiative
G3.1 application level A+. Contents of Disclosure on Management Approach may have more clearly defined
policies and goals for each aspect. It is also recommended to have more disclosure on the performance of
supplier chain management, sustainability strategy and material impacts.
Signed:
For and on behalf of SGS Taiwan
Dennis Yang, Chief Operating Officer
Taipei, Taiwan
25 June, 2012
WWW.SGS.COM
70Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 70Corporate Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE / GTSM Listed Companies Page No.
1.Enforcement of Corporate Governance
    (1) Information regarding companies formulating corporate social responsibility policies or standards, and 
assessments of the implementation results of such programs.9
    (2) Information regarding the operation of units created by companies dedicated to overseeing enforcement of corporate social responsibilities.9
  
  (3) Information regarding companies conducting corporate ethical educational, training, and briefing for the Board of Directors, Supervisors, and 
employees, and incorporating them into employee performance evaluation systems to establish clear and effective incentive and disciplinary systems.19-20
2.Development of sustainable environments
    (1) Information regarding companies committing to increasing the usage efficiency of all resources, and 
using renewable materials with low negative environmental impacts.44-45
    (2) Information regarding companies establishing environmental management systems appropriate for their industry’s characteristics.42-43
    (3) Information regarding appointment of dedicated environmental management units or personnel for environmental maintenance.42
    (4) Information regarding companies addressing the impacts of climate change on business activities and formulating corporate energy and carbon conservation and greenhouse gas reduction strategies.43
3.Protection of Public Interests
    (1) Information regarding companies complying with relevant labor legislations, protecting legal rights of 
employees, and establishing appropriate management methodologies and procedures.34-35
    (2) Information regarding companies providing employees with safe and healthy working environments, 
and conducting regular safety and health education for employees.38
    (3) Information regarding companies formulating and disclosing its consumer rights policies, and 
providing transparent and effective consumer complaint procedures for its products and services.26-27
    (4) Information regarding companies working with suppliers to jointly improve corporate social responsibilities.10
  
  (5) Information regarding companies participating in community development and relevant activities of public non-governmental organizations through commercial activities, material donations, corporate volunteer services, or other free professional services.52
4.Enhancement of Information Disclosure
    (1) Methods with which companies disclose information related to the relevance and reliability of their 
corporate social responsibilities.21
    (2) Information regarding companies producing corporate social responsibility reports and disclosing and promoting corporate social responsibilities.all
5. If companies establish their own corporate social responsibility regulations in accordance with the aforementionedCorporate Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE / GTSM Listed Companies, please explain any differences between their business practices and their regulations:all
6. Important information helpful towards understanding the enforcement of corporate social responsibilities (such as companies formulating programs and measures for environmental protection, community participation, social contribution, public interests, consumer rights, human rights, safety and hygiene, and other social responsibility activities, as well as the status of the execution of such actions):
all
7. If products or corporate social responsibility reports of companies have passed auditing standards of relevant verification agencies, they shall be explained in detail:62-63Table of Mandatory Duties7171 GRI G3.1 CONTENT INDEXGRI G3.1 Index
Disclosure Items CHT’s Responses Page
     Profile
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its 
strategy.Message from the CEO 1
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Risk and Crisis Management 19
2.1 Name of the organization. Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd --
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Profile of Chunghwa Telecom, Improve Service 
Development4, 26
2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Operational Development, Subsidiaries 5
2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 21-3 Hsinyi Road, Sec, 1, Taipei, Taiwan 100 R.O.C. --
2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically 
relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.Expanding Overseas Operations 4
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Shareholder Structure 18
2.7 Markets served. Taiwan --
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Market Position of Chunghwa Telecom 6
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. No significant changes --
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Awards Won 8, 16, 22, 36,46,60
3.1 Reporting period for information provided. 2011.01~2011.12 --
3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 2012.Feburary --
3.3 Reporting cycle. Yearly --
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Feedback Front Cover
3.5 Process for defining report content. Editorial Policy 12
3.6 Boundary of the report. Reporting Period Front Cover
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Scope and Coverage Front Cover
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly 
affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.Editorial Policy Front Cover
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 
applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report.According to each indicators --
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. According to each indicators --
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary , or measurement methods applied in the report. No significant changes --
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI G3.1 Index 71-73
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Assurance Statement 68-69
4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, 
such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Operation and Performance Assessment of the 
Board of Directors18
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer . No --
4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are 
independent and/or non-executive members. Operation and Performance Assessment of the 
Board of Directors18
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body . Information Disclosure 18
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body , senior managers, and executives, and the 
organization’s performance. Operation and Performance Assessment of the 
Board of Directors18
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Operation and Performance Assessment of the 
Board of Directors18
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the 
organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Operation and Performance Assessment of the 
Board of Directors18
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 
social performance and the status of their implementation.Enhance Code of Conduct, Ethical Corporate Culture 20-21
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’ s identification and management of economic, 
environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 
internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Operation and Performance Assessment of the 
Board of Directors18
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, 
and social performance. Operation and Performance Assessment of the 
Board of Directors18
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Risk Management Responsibilities 19
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 
subscribes or endorses. Participation in the International Energy Conservation 
Research Organization GreenTouch48
4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations. Participation in the International Energy Conservation 
Research Organization GreenTouch48
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Engagement with Stakeholders 12
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Engagement with Stakeholders 12
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Engagement with Stakeholders 12
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to 
those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.Engagement with Stakeholders 12
Economic Disclosure on Management Approach Enforcement of Ethical Business Practices 18
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and 
other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.Operational Development 6
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’ s activities due to climate change. Climate Change Risks 19
EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Retirement Benefits 42
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. No Financial Aid from Government --
EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Standard labor wage are all above local minimum 
wage--
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Deepen Supplier Partnerships, Expansion of Supplier 
Management13-14
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant 
operation.Protection of Human Rights 3872Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 72EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-
kind, or pro bono engagement.LBG Social Contribution Assessment 63
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. LBG Social Contribution Assessment 63
Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental Sustainability Management System 
(EARTH)49
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Overview of Environmental Impacts 57
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Overview of Environmental Impacts 57
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Overview of Environmental Impacts 57
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Overview of Environmental Impacts 57
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Environmental Sustainability Management 49
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as 
a result of these initiatives. Environmental Sustainability Management 49
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Environmental Sustainability Management 49
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Overview of Environmental Impacts 57
EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. No Such Case --
EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Water Resource Efficiency Management 55
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 
protected areas.No Such Case --
EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areas.No Such Case --
EN13 Habitats protected or restored. No Such Case --
EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity . No Such Case --
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas af fected by operations, by level of 
extinction risk.No Such Case --
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Overview of Environmental Impacts 57
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Overview of Environmental Impacts 57
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Carbon Management Objective 52
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. No Such Case --
EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. No Such Case --
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. No Such Case --
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Overview of Environmental Impacts 57
EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. No Such Case --
EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, 
II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally .No Such Case --
EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting 
organization’s discharges of water and runoff.No Such Case --
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Safeguard our Beautiful Homeland 59
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category . No Such Case --
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and 
regulations.No Such Case --
EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’ s operations, 
and transporting members of the workforce.Energy Conservation Action Plan and Measures 56
EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Creating a Green Business 58
Labor Practices 
and Decent 
WorkDisclosure on Management Approach Caring for Employee Needs 38
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Protection of Human Rights 38
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Protection of Human Rights 38
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Health Promotion and Management 41
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Smooth Communication Channels 39
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. The Protection of Employee Rights 39
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management- worker health and safety committees that help monitor and 
advise on occupational health and safety programs. Safety and Health Management and System 
Certification44
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region. Occupational Hazard Statistics 43
LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 
community members regarding serious diseases.Health Promotion and Management 41
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Safety and Health Management and System 
Certification44
LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Employee Education, Training, and Higher Learning 40
LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in 
managing career endings. New Training Development System Oriented for 
Professional Skills40
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Employee Education and Training 40
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender , age group, minority group 
membership, and other indicators of diversity.Protection of Human Rights 38
LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Protection of Human Rights 38
LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender . Balancing Work and Family 42
Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Enhance Code of Conduct 20
HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone 
human rights screening.Enhance Code of Conduct 20
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Expansion of Supplier Management 14
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 
including the percentage of employees trained.Enhance Code of Conduct 20
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. No Such Case --
HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and 
actions taken to support these rights.No Such Case --
HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor , and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of 
child labor.No Such Case --73HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor , and measures to contribute to the 
elimination of forced or compulsory labor.No Such Case --
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 
relevant to operations.All security personnel are trained monthly 48
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. No Such Case --
HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. No Such Case --
HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. No Such Case --
Society Disclosure on Management Approach Concentration on Digital Opportunities 62
SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on 
communities, including entering, operating, and exiting.Social Investment Statistics 63
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Ethical Corporate Culture 21
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Ethical Corporate Culture 21
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Ethical Corporate Culture 21
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Ethical Corporate Culture 21
SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. No Such Case --
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. No Such Case --
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Business Principles 18
SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. No Such Case --
SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local 
communities.No Such Case --
Product 
Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Brand Management 27
PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of 
significant products and services categories subject to such procedures.Reduce Negative Impacts 31
PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of 
products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.Reduce Negative Impacts 31
PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to 
such information requirements.No Such Case --
PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and 
labeling, by type of outcomes.No Such Case --
PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction Survey 29
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, 
promotion, and sponsorship.Business Principles 18
PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, 
including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.Business Principles 18
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Privacy Protection and Information Security 30
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and 
services.Business Principles 18
Internal Operations
IO1 Capital investment in telecommunication network infrastruc-ture broken down by country/region. Concentration on Digital Opportunities 62
IO2 Net costs for service providers under the Universal Service Obligation when extending service to geographic locations and low-
income groups, which are not profitable.Concentration on Digital Opportunities 62
IO3 Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel involved in the installation, operation and maintenance of masts, base 
stations, laying cables and other outside plant. Related health and safety issues include working at heights, electric shock, exposure to EMF and radio frequency fields, and exposure to hazardous chemicals.Enhancement of Operational Safety Management 44
IO4 Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection) standards on exposure to 
radiofrequency (RF) emissions from handsets.Reduce Negative Impacts 31
IO5 Compliance with ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection) guidelines on exposure to 
radiofrequency (RF) emissions from base stations.Reduce Negative Impacts 31
IO6 Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets. Reduce Negative Impacts 31
IO7 Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission sites including stakeholder consultation, site sharing, and initia-tives 
to reduce visual impacts.Reduce Negative Impacts 31
IO8 Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites, and sites on existing structures. Reduce Negative Impacts 31
Providing Access
PA1 Polices and practices to enable the deployment of telecom-munications infrastructure and access to telecommunications products 
and services in remote and low population density areas.Minimize the Digital Gap 64
PA2 Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of telecommunication products and services. Minimize the Digital Gap 64
PA3 Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of telecommunications products and services and quantify , where 
possible, for specified time periods and locations of down time.Minimize the Digital Gap 64
PA4 Quantify the level of availability of telecommunications prod-ucts and services in areas where the organization operates. Minimize the Digital Gap 64
PA5 Number and types of telecommunication products and ser-vices provided to and used by low and no income sectors of the 
population.Minimize the Digital Gap 64
PA6 Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication products and services in emergency situations and for disas¬ter relief. Enhancement of Operational Safety Management 32
PA7 Polices and practices to manage human rights issues relat¬ing to access and use of telecommunications products and services. Minimize the Digital Gap 64
PA8 Policies and practices to publicly communicate on EMF related issues. Reduce Negative Impacts 31
PA9 Total amount invested in programmes and activities in elec-tromagnetic field research. Reduce Negative Impacts 31
PA10 Total amount invested in programmes and activities in elec-tromagnetic field research. Customer Relations Management 28
PA11 Initiatives to inform customers about product features and applications that will promote responsible, efficient, cost ef-fective, and 
environmentally preferable use.Customer Relations Management 28
Technology Applications
TA1 Provide examples of the resource efficiency of telecommuni-cation products and services delivered. Open Innovation 35
TA2 Provide examples of telecommunication products, services and applications that have the potential to replace physical objects. Open Innovation 35
TA3 Disclose any measures of transport and/or resource changes of customer use of the telecommunication products and services 
listed above.Open Innovation 35
TA4 Disclose any estimates of the rebound effect (indirect conse-quences) of customer use of the products and services listed above, 
and lessons learned for future development.Open Innovation 35
TA5 Description of practices relating to intellectual property rights and open source technologies. Open Innovation 35
73 GRI G3.1 CONTENT INDEXwww.cht.com.tw
2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Chunghwa TelecomSUSTAINABLE INNOVATION
with ATTENTIVE LISTENING