Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2008
 Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.Value & Trust
Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2008Ratings & Awards
 Social Responsibilities/ Information Disclosure
CommonWealth Magazine Won the 2008 CommonWealth award for “Corporate Citizens” 
 Won the 2008 award for Taiwan’s most trusted brand in the telecommunication services industry
Global Views Monthly Magazine Won the 2008 award for Top 50 Companies in CSR performance
Taiwan Institute for Sustainable Energy Won the “Distinction Award” for the 2008 Taiwan CSR Award
 Financial/ Corporate Governance
Taiwan Stock Exchange Corporation,  Awarded the highest ranking of A+ for the Institute’s 5th  annual award for information transparency and
GreTai Securities Market and Taiwan disclosure 
Securities and Futures Institute
Standard and Poor’s Ratings Long-term issuer credit rating “AA”
Taiwan Ratings Corporation Long-term issuer credit rating “twAAA” and short-term issuer credit rating “twA-1+”
2008 Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific ICT Won the 2008 “NGN Service Provider of the Year Award”, being the only award winning telecom company in
Awards the Asia Pacific region 
The Asset Magazine Corporate Won the 2008 Best Corporate Governance Award in Taiwan
Governance IndexFinance Asia Won the “Best Commitment to Strong Dividend Policy 2008” award
TM Forum Management World (TMF) Won the annual award for “Best Innovation 
& Project Management”
 Green Procurement
Taipei Municipal Government Awarded the merit certificate for the 2008 “Green Procurement by Private-Sector Enterprises & Organizations”
 Corporate Image
Reader’s Digest Won the award for the “Trusted Brand in Telecommunication Services” for 4 consecutive years (2004-2008)
Next Magazine Was the 1st place in the Next Magazine’s 5th annual award for Top Service in the “Mobile & Fixed Line Services”
 category and 3rd place in the “Best Service Employees” category
Business Today Was the 1st place in the “2008 Survey for Business People’s Ideal Brand” for telecommunication services providers
Management Magazine Was the 1st place in the “2008 Survey for Consumers’ Ideal Brand” for mobile phone system and data network services
National Council on Physical Fitness Received the presentation for “Corporate Sponsorship for Sports Organizations” for 2008
and Sports, Executive Yuan
Comments
We welcome any comments about this report, and are very interested in 
receiving feedback from our readers. Please send comments to the following contact person.Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.Public Affairs Department, CSR DivisionSenior Director: Tseng, Chin-MingAddress: 21-3, Sec. 1, Hsinyi Road, , Taipei, Taiwan 100Telephone: +886 2 2344 4000Email: chtcsr@cht.com.tw 
Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2007
Published on May 23, 2008Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2008Published on September 6, 20091This is Chunghwa Telecom’s second Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report. The Report informs the general public on our various CSR initiatives and results for 2008.
Reporting Period
Disclose the various CSR management policies, key issues, countermeasures and the results of initiatives for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2008; however, a part of the Report also included a description of the initiatives taken and the results for the periods falling outside the reporting period (before January 1,  2008 and after December 31, 2008) to ensure more comprehensive coverage.
Scope and Coverage of the Report
The report covers the Head Office of Chunghwa Telecom and subsidiaries (excluding investee companies) or “Chunghwa Telecom” for short. The reported data covered the corporation’s financial, environmental and social performance while the reported financial results included both those of the Chunghwa Telecom and joint-venture companies.
Assurance of Public Information
To improve the reliability of the Report, we have engaged the “Business Council for Sustainable Development- Taiwan” to review the contents of this Report and express a review opinion on the Report. We have also engaged the “SGS Taiwan” to collaborate the reported statistics and have obtained a Certificate of Collaboration.
The Report was rated “A
+” application level according to the Global 
Reporting Initiatives (GRI) guidelines. Please refer 
the GRI G3 conformity table for details of the corresponding contents and information under the GRI G3 standards.Policy of the Report
References
The Report was compiled with reference to the G3 Guidelines of 
the Global Reporting Initiatives and the GRI Telecommunications Sector Supplement. The structure of the Report has the following two major features:
Clearly Structured:
Each Chapter Includes Four Dimensions
We made a disclosure of our strategies and 
management approach and described the ways in which we address some specific issues.
Identify our influence on the economy, society 
and environment. Determine the priority of our actions.
Review the performance indicators of our 
various activities to offer accurate and more reliable statistics.
Consider the future prospects and plan the key 
action items. Be brave in making promises to create trust and value.
Comprehensive Report Contents:
Full Coverage of Sustainability Subjects
Incorporate the sustainability factors into risk 
and opportunity considerations. Our vision is to become “the most valuable” enterprise.
Corporate responsibilities are essential in helping 
the recovery of market confidence. Our vision is to become “the most reliable” enterprise.
Match the reasonable expectations of stakeholders 
and create benefits for them. Our vision is to “care and share”.
Social Contribution: Bridge the digital divide 
with our core competency. Our vision is to “improve the quality of living”.
Develop green Information and Communications 
Technology (“ICT” henceforth) to reduce environmental impact including measures to address climate change . Our vision is “to reduce adverse impacts on the environment”.
Management
Approach
Key Issues
Major
Responses
Key Action 
Items
Operational
Development
Responsible 
Operation
Stakeholder
Feedback
Social Contribution
Environmental 
Sustainability Management
Report Application Levels2Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder Feedback
Sustainable 
Operation 07
Products and Services 08
Operating Results andEconomic Impact  11
Protection of
Shareholders’ Rights 12
Affiliated
Enterprises 13
Indirect EconomicImpact 13
Promotion ofIndustrialDevelopments 13
R&D andInnovation 14CorporateGovernance 17
Risk
Management
Mechanism  19
Improvement inInformation Transparency 22
Corporate Code of Ethics 23
Rules of Conduct forSales and MarketingStaff 23
Communication ofCSR Informationwith Investors 24CSR Organization  27
Stakeholder Involvement 29
CSR Management 30
Employee Assurance 32
Employee Diversity 33
Harmonious Labor Relations 34
Employee Rights 35
 
Health and Safety  36
Training andDevelopment 38
Promote CareerOpportunities 39 
Promotion of CareerOpportunities 39
Supplier
Management 49
Environmental Principles 49
Principles of HumanRights and Ethics 49Consumer Trust 40
Improvement of ServiceQuality  41
Service SatisfactionSurvey 42
Protection of ConsumerConfidentiality 43
Opinion Feedbacks 44
Reduction of AdverseService Impacts 46 
 
 
Electromagnetic Wave
 Issue 47
Management
Approach
Key Issues
Major
Responses
Key Action 
Items3Stakeholder Feedback Social ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
Environmental Sustainability
Management System 71
Carbon Management StrategicMap 73
Greenhouse Gas Inventory 74
Continuous Mitigation ofEnvironmental Impact 77
Employee Environmental Initiatives  82
Energy Conservation and
Carbon Reduction Services 85Five Dimensions of Social 
Contribution 51
Chunghwa TelecomFoundation 52
Create DigitalOpportunities 52
Quantifiable SocialContribution 53
Telecom UniversalServices 54
Promote DigitalLearning 55
Bridging the Digital Divide 58
Corporate Volunteerism  60
Community CulturalIndustry 62
Charitable TelecomServices 64
Charitable Activities 66
The ADOC 2.0 Project 68Third Party ReviewOpinion 92
Assurance Statement 93
GRI G3 Content Index  94
Messages from the Chairman and CEO
In 2008, we published the second Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report with the enthusiastic 
effort of our dedicated CSR Committee and staffs. The Report continued to set out the various issues concerning our stakeholders. We have undertaken various actions for systematic organization and directions to address these issues to facilitate the corporation’s continual CSR development in line with the contemporary social requirements and global trends.
Our corporate’s vision is “to become the most valuable and reliable provider of information and 
communications services”. We shall maintain focus on our core business, emphasize our professional competency, improve the operational efficiency and offer inspiring services to customers.  In spite of the global financial crisis, we will continue to adopt rigorous corporate governance principles and an 
overall risk control mechanism. Given the effort of the entire Chunghwa Telecom team and support from 
our customers as well as the support from all, we have managed to accomplish our operating targets, a consolidated operating income of NT$ 201.67 billion for the 2008 income year.
We understand that our stakeholders have keen interest in the various issues such as improvement in 
information transparency, employee assurance, consumer trust, social investment accounting, energy saving and carbon reduction. As such, we offer complete and real-time disclosure of our operating information to allow investors and shareholders to be fully on track of the corporation’s current status of operation. We also enhance communications with employees and the labor union to offer special “voluntary” resignation and retirement plans.
For the free webmail service offered to our HiNet mailbox subscribers, we launched an e-mail filtering 
mechanism in compliance with the domestic regulatory requirements to further reduce the disturbance of “Spam E-mails” to consumers. In addition, we have allocated resources to address the electromagnetic wave issue associated with base stations by engaging professional academic agencies to undertake the relevant study in hope of keeping on top of the latest developments.
The Corporation is a keen participant in numerous charitable events and we have a high level of interest 
in the welfare of disadvantaged groups.  Besides being a part of the ADOC 2.0 (APEC Digital Opportunity 
Center) program, our dedication to social welfare is evident from our sponsorships for software/
hardware infrastructure and participation in charitable events by corporate volunteers, to name just a few. We have accounted our social investments for the past year on the basis of the “Five Dimensions of Social Contribution”. The evaluation process not only demonstrated our promise to the society but also allowed us to better understand the effects and benefits of our social investments.  We shall plan our CSR events on the basis of higher “value creation”.
4Climate change is a vital contemporary issue confronting all global enterprises. We have launched 
the “iEN (Intelligent Energy Network)” targeting our corporate customers. We were the first telecommunications service provider in Taiwan to complete the greenhouse gas inventory. From understanding carbon emission to achieving energy saving for switching offices and office buildings, we have been engaging in an overall reduction of energy consumption. These comprehensive experiences were transformed into our “iEN (Intelligent Energy Network)”, through which we hope to help our industries to conserve energy and reduce carbon emissions. The optimal goal is to create positive influence on the country’s economic development.
In the world of sustainability, there is no unconditionally growth. With respect to CSR fulfillment, in 
future, we will be more focused on paving the foundation to enhance our core competitiveness, while 
at the same time, placing high levels of importance on creating digital opportunities and environmental sustainability development. Meanwhile, we will employ more efficient CSR management strategies to transform the issues arisen from interactive communications with our stakeholders into actions. We aim to develop a CSR blueprint unique to the Chunghwa Telecom. We trust that we are capable of becoming the most reliable and valuable provider of information and communications services with team dedication as well as the supervision and support from public.
Chairman 
& CEO
5
6Operational Development
The recent global financial crisis has awakened our deeper thoughts and made us 
realize that the economic crisis and the risks of climate change challenging the operations of business enterprises will eventually become closely tied to corporate behavior issues on the dimensions of environment, human rights, labor and corporate governance. Incorporation of environmental, social and corporate governance factors as part of the consideration for an enterprise’s risk and opportunities is fundamental to corporate sustainability management.
Given the difficult post- financial crisis economic environment, we trust that any 
corporation, with its existing CSR competitive advantages, is better equipped to create the long-term prospect of sustainable competitive advantages, improve employee morale and loyalty to the company and maintain stakeholders’ support for and trust in the corporation.
As such, we will utilize the internal corporate resources more effectively than in 
the past.  With respect to CSR, we plan to dedicate our efforts and resources to projects that are capable of simultaneously achieving the economic effects and promoting social benefits. That is, to integrate our pursuit of the becoming the 
“most valuable” corporate operational prospects by focusing on our core business, 
emphasizing our professional competency, improving operational efficiency and offering Inspiring Services with our corporate social responsibilities to continue increasing our investment and performance improvements in CSR fulfillment.Sustainable OperationProducts and Services
Operating Results and Economic
Impact
Protection of Shareholders’ Rights
Affiliated EnterprisesIndirect Economic ImpactPromotion of Industrial Developments
R&D and Innovation
The Most 
Valuable
Improve
EfficiencyInspiring
ServicesEmphasize
Professional
CompetencyFocus
on Core
Business
Management
Approach
Key Issues
Major
Responses
Key Action 
ItemsAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder 
FeedbackResponsible
OperationOperational Development
7
Management
Approach
Sustainable Operation
Information Communication Technology (ICT) in the 21st Century is not only a measure 
of a nation’s competitiveness in terms of technology development, but also the Integration 
of ICT application with overall management is becoming more critical. As the leader of 
the telecommunications industry in Taiwan, we have greater responsibilities in addition 
to actively grasping the global trend, providing innovative services and broadening the service range.
Upon integration of ICT to every facet of a corporation’s daily operations, it is essential 
that operations and services shall stay uninterrupted. Given the globalization of business 
operations and the fact that service hours are becoming longer with some enterprises even offering round-the-clock services year-round, it is inevitably that corporate networks need to go global and remain functioning uninterrupted at all times. As such, it is crucial to maintain the quality of our communications and Internet services as the quality of such 
services is key to our clients’ operations or moreover, reputation. We are dedicated to 
accomplishing the missions entrusted to us by our clients while reducing the risks confronting our corporate clients and us. The optimal goal is to work with our clients side by side towards sustainable growth. 
Given the economic downturn, the relevant ICT may not only help business enterprises 
to improve productivity and promote economic growth, but it is also capable of boosting low-carbon economy and in turn, creating social and environmental benefits. Our concept of sustainable operation aims at helping our customers as well as our own corporation. We believe that our management approach in caring for both the environmental resources 
and social welfare may touch people’s hearts and win the society’s recognition.
Chunghwa Telecom Organizational Chart
Southern Taiwan Business Group
Mobile Business Group
Data Communications Business
Group
International Business Group
Enterprise Business Group
Telecom Laboratories
Telecom Training InstituteOperating Departments in
Headquarters
Northern Taiwan Business Group
Shareholders’
MeetingSecretariat
Board of
Directors
Vice
PresidentsBoard of
Directors(BOD)
Chairman &
 CEOSupervisors
President
Auditing
DepartmentOperational DevelopmentSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendixStakeholder
FeedbackResponsible
Operation
8Products and Services
Telecommunication represents our core competency. Our business composition is rapidly 
changing following technological advancement in recent years. Taking the emerging and fast-growth businesses in recent years for instance including ADSL and FTTx, 
WLAN (3.5G), MOD, the various value-added businesses and the five major corporate 
services (iEN, Corporate Data Security Services, Call Center, ITS / Telematics & PBX/
IMO), it is evident that we have emerged from the traditional telecommunication market and are gradually settling into the IT services arena.
Our services include the following:
Fixed Line Services
Local Telephone Service &  Related Value-Added Services include the following: 
Domestic long distance services: include operator toll dialing (OTD), subscriber 
toll dialing (STD) and long-distance hotline services.
International long distance services: include the various types of international 
call and telephone conferencing services.
International long distance services: include the various types of international call and telephone conferencing services.
Intelligent Network (IN): toll-free service, bulk announcement, personal number 
service, and premium rate services.Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN): allowing digital communication of voice, data, text and image.
Mobile Services
GSM and 3G Mobile Services: GSM services utilize the terminal devices of Mobile phones to make domestic or international communications at any time through the digital Mobile network; 3G Mobile services not only offer voice services but also rich 
and diverse value-added (include multimedia) services as well as the application of 
real-time image.Value-Added Services: include text/multimedia messaging, mobile Internet, value-added voice mail, mobile business, mobile information, music and games downloads, 
video phone and location based service.
Radio Paging Service: the caller transmits the messages to the callee through radio signals. Numbers or symbols are displayed in the screen of the pager passing on the caller’s message to the callee.
Management
ApproachAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder 
FeedbackResponsible
OperationOperational Development
9Internet and Data Services
Internet Service: Chunghwa Telecom’s ISP service is called HiNet.  The service not only 
offers subscribers Internet access services but also valued-added services such as on-line games, video and anti-virus/ firewall protection as well as Xuite members’ services.
Wireless Services (WLAN).
MOD (IPTV) Services: our transmission platform offers our customers multimedia on demand content. Media companies use our platform to offer online TV or radio channels, programs on demand, and other applied services such as TV channels, 
high definition TV, Internet banking, and home karaoke. 
Dedicated Line Services: we offer local, long-distance or international dedicated line services for customers who require point-to-point transmission of data, and voice calls.
Business Services
We offer advanced customized data and communication services for our local corporate clients to enable them to raise their competitiveness and aggressively pursue business opportunities with the optimal goal of achieving their corporate goals and strategies.
Corporate Client Total Services: Voice value-added services, Corporate Voice and 
Data Total Services, Corporate Internet Upgrading, IPCC Customer Service Platforms, and IMO Total Management Services.Corporate Client International Services: conferencing, international dedicated line and 
Internet services.
Corporate Client Mobile Services: data services including Corporate Messaging Services, Mobile Office Services (MDVPN), Upgrading Corporate Mobile Capability, mPro Business Services, Business Travel Services, and Mobile Internet Services.Corporate Client Data Services: we offer data value-added services including Optical Fiber 
Internet Connections, Corporate Data Security Services, Electronic Commerce, Government 
Tenders and Real Estate Services, Corporate Web Hosting, Intelligent Facilities Management Services, Direct Broadcasting Platforms, Video Conferencing and HiNet Travel Web.
Other
Satellite Communications Services: include Leasing of Transponders, Satellite Uplinks, Transoceanic Broadcasting and Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) services.Operational DevelopmentSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendixStakeholder
FeedbackResponsible
Operation
10
Management
Approach
Being a valuable business enterprise, besides emphasizing our professionalism, we 
maintain focus on the impact of our core business on our stakeholders and the re-sponsible action we take to address any stakeholder related issues. The CSR issues 
corresponding to our core businesses are listed as follows, which will continue to be 
our future focus:
The market share statistics of our various types of telecommunication services give us an 
indication of our importance in contributing to the country’s economic development.Improvement in the operating efficiency and productivity in the information and communications 
industry has significant impact on the country’s overall industrial and economic development. 
As such, we are dedicated to improving our sustainable competitiveness and we work together with related industry partners and customers to deliver innovative and forward-looking products and services with the optimal goal of creating a win-win situation.
Taiwan Telecom Penetration Rate (%)
Chunghwa Telecom User Number and Market Share
		 2007		 	 2008
Local Call  12,950,000  97.4% 12,730,000  97.3%
Mobile   8,700,000  35.8%    8,950,000  35.2%
Broadband Access   4,250,000  87.0%   4,310,000  83.8%
HiNet*   4,080,000  68.3%    4,100,000  68.1%
*: HiNet includes Broadband Services (ADSL and FTTx), Dial-up and other Internet access.Our Services
Mobile
Communications
ADSL
FTTx
MOD
HiNet Internet 
Access
Customer
ServicesCorresponding CSR Issues
Recycling of cell phones and electromagnetic issues.
In line with the government’s policy for information and 
communications development and the “U Taiwan Project”, bridge the digital divide, promote digital living and health cares, induce business innovation in the information and communications industry, raise the country’s competitiveness and the living standards.Reduce wastes, achieve energy saving and carbon reduction.Energy saving, carbon reduction, create digital opportunities, increase the transparency of real-time data, responsible mar-keting behaviors and customer care.Protection of customer confidentiality, energy saving and carbon reduction.
	 2007	 2008
Mobile Phone Penetration Rate*1 105.9 110.3
Broadband Internet Penetration Rate*2  63.8  65.6
*1: Include PHS subscribers. Data was computed on the total number of subscribers.
*2: Data was computed on the total number of households using broadband internet services.Mobile Broadband
AccessSubscribers
Unit: Thousand Subscribers
2007
2008
Local
Call12,950
12,730
8,7008,950
4,2504,310
HiNet4,0804,100AppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder 
FeedbackResponsible
OperationOperational Development
112008 Shareholder Composition
MOTC
Domestic Financial InstitutionsOther Domestic Institutional InvestorsDomestic Individual InvestorsForeign Institutional and Individual Investors35.29% 44.88%
8.77%
1.69%9.37%*1: Refer to the consolidated operating income of 
 the CHT and subsidiaries. The operating income
 of CHT amounted to NT$ 186.78 billion.
*2: The real GDP for 2008 was approximately 
 NT$ 13,089.7 billion.
Key Issues
Operating Results and Economic Impact
The global economy experienced an extremely turbulent year in 2008. Many businesses 
were confronted with sales decline while employees of some enterprises were forced to take leave without pay. In spite of the difficult environment, our operating performance 
maintained our usual standards given the entire CHT team’s effort and support of our 
suppliers. The corporation’s overall operating results are as follows:
Consolidated operating income was NT$ 201.67 billion,
*1 representing 1.54% of the 
real GDP for 2008 published by the Directorate General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics, Executive Yuan.
*2
Consolidated net income after tax was NT$ 45.01 billion while net profit margin was 22.3%.Consolidated income tax was NT$ 13.89 billion, the highest among other corporate 
entities in Taiwan, providing the government a major source of revenue for public 
infrastructure construction and other developments.
Our paid-in capital is NT$ 96.97 billion. Even after privatization, the government is still our largest shareholder. As of December 31, 2008, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications
(“MOTC” henceforth) owns 35.29% of the total shares. Our business sectors observed balanced 
growth in the past year and the current business status is summarized as follows:
Mobile Phone & 3G Internet Connection: we have a total of 8.95 million 2G/3G subscribers, 
representing a market share of 35.2%. Through the Smartphone strategic alliance and channel marketing, we hope to promote the development of the domestic communications 
equipment industry and then in turn the life enhancing application of domestic mobile 
commerce and wireless broadband Internet services.Broadband Access and E-Commerce Services: Broadband construction and the household penetration rate are key indicators of a nation’s competitiveness. Because 
we have continually improving network construction and quality of services, we 
have a total of 4.31 million ADSL and FTTx subscribers, representing a market share of 83.8%, among which 1.07 million were FTTx subscribers, representing a growth rate of 99% comparing to 2007.MOD and Digital Convergence Services: our MOD services offer local suppliers of 
electronic appliances, video conferencing equipment and digital contents and the 
cultural and creative industry a platform for innovation. We have overcome traditional broadcasting barriers and offered 680,000 households selective and high-resolution TV programs such as the Olympic Games.
ICT Total Services (iEN / ITS): Bearing in mind that our ICT and related services have 
the most potential for growth, we have been promoting five major business services and offering consumers, corporate customers, other industries and the government a multiple grouping and emerging platform. We make our share of contribution to economic growth and environmental sustainability.Operational DevelopmentSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendixStakeholder
FeedbackResponsible
Operation
1212,752,00713,059,10813,892,308
2006 2007 2008Taxable Income for the Past Years
Unit: Thousand NTD184,527,634197,390,883201,669,521
2006 2007 2008Major Financial Performance for the 
Past Years
4.564.644.94Operating Income (Thousand NTD)
Basic Earnings Per Share (NTD)
Consolidated Capital Expenditure
Unit: Thousand NTD
2007 2008Other
Wireless Network FacilityWired Network Facility
19,085,3545,340,474642,2112,939,357
5,162,562
22,017,003
Major
Responses
Protection of Shareholders’ Rights
According to the current trends of global CSR development, investors have acquired 
keener interest in the social and environmental performance of business enterprises. Besides maintaining our fundamental ideal of creating profits for shareholders and making 
contributions to the society, we also communicate with investors our plans for sustainable 
corporate development and take actions to address social and environmental issues and ethical risks to ensure that they fully understand our CSR goals.
The 2008 results show that we are a steady performer. We made a dividend distribution 
as follows: NT$ 4.26 cash dividend and NT$ 0.1 stock dividend per share. In an effort to 
improve our ROE ratio, we convened an interim shareholders’ meeting in August 2008 to approve the proposal for a capital increase by capital surplus, which included a distribution of a NT$ 2 stock dividend per share. Also approved in the interim shareholders’ meeting was the proposal for capital decrease by cash refund of NT$ 1.64 per share. A total amount 
of approximately NT$ 19.116 billion was refunded to shareholders. In addition to the capital 
decrease in 2007, we have made a total refund of NT$ 28.783 billion to our shareholders in 2007 and 2008.
We have maintained steady management for the past years. Besides continuing to stay 
profitable and keeping a sound financial structure, we have also been an honest taxpayer, 
and a major contributor to the government’s revenue. Although the future operating environment is full of challenges, we will remain focused on our core businesses to create the maximum benefits for our shareholders.
Note: Several accounts in the 2006 and 2007 financial statements have been reclassified to be comparable 
with the presentation of accounts in the 2008 financial statement.	 2006	 2007	 2008
Operating Income 184,527,634 197,390,883 201,669,521
Operating Costs and Expenses 127,344,136 137,016,836 143,043,820
Personnel Expenditure 42,566,323 40,604,196 40,930,423
Earnings Before Income Tax (EBIT)  57,183,498 60,374,047 58,625,701
Earnings Per Share ($)  4.56 4.94 4.64
Income Tax 12,752,007 13,059,108 13,892,308Consolidated Financial Performance Benchmarks for the Past Years
Unit: Thousand NTDAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder 
FeedbackResponsible
OperationOperational Development
13Investees and Ownership Ratio
Company Name Shareholding Ratio (%)
Publicly Traded
Senao International Co., Ltd 29
Non-Publicly Traded
Sino Investment Corporation 49
Chunghwa System Integration Co. 100
Alcatel-Lucent Taiwan International
Standard Electronics Ltd. 40
Chief Telecom Inc. 69
Skysoft Co., Ltd. 30
Chunghwa International Yellow PagesCorp. 100
Spring House Entertainment Inc. 56
Light Era Development Co., Ltd. 100
Kingwaytek Technology 33
InfoExplorer Co., Ltd. 49
Taipei Financial Center Corp. 12
Global Mobile Corp. 11
Chi-Chiu Investment Company 8
RPTI International Ltd. 12
Kunming Biogen Science and 
Technology 9
Taiwan Siemens Telecommunication Systems Ltd. 17
Offshore companies
Chunghwa Telecom Global, Inc. 100
Donghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.  100
Viettel-CHT Company Limited 33
Chunghwa Telecom Singapore Pte.,Ltd. 100
Chunghwa Telecom Japan Co., Ltd. 100
B.V. I. Investees
New Prospect Investment Holdings Ltd.
Prime Asia Investment Holdings Ltd.Affiliated Enterprises
In 2006, we started to make investments in other businesses with the objective of expanding 
the width of horizontal linkage and depth of vertical integration between industries to achieve an overall business diversity. Currently, we operates with 23 investee companies 
and the amount of investment amounted to NT$ 11.4 billion.
Among our core investments, we place a high level of emphasis on communications 
product and service integration industries. We expect to improve our service quality and efficiency and create more opportunities in the market through proactive cooperation with 
our investee companies.  We have established more linkages between the Company and 
other industries in the non-core or emerging businesses to seek more diverse sources of revenue.
Indirect Economic Impact
Network technology and mobile communications are changing people’s life styles, offering users freedom, convenience and improved productivity. Besides making direct contributions to the economy, we have indirectly promoted the development 
of related industries in the operating process by effectively changing the industrial 
structure, creating employment opportunities and improving the quality of labor. We engage in R&D and product innovation and undertake external procurement and social investment projects to offer the general public, the various industries, consumers and 
disadvantaged groups convenience and assistance.
Promotion of Industrial Developments
Our major tasks in promoting industrial developments are as follows:
Construct the WiMAX trial network allowing local equipment manufacturers to 
undertake inter-operability tests and in turn, promoting the development of 
autonomous technology in the domestic wireless communications industry.
Starting 2008, we organized the GPON (Gigabit-capable Passive Optical Network) inter-operability tests to assist domestic providers of network communications services to obtain from prominent global OLT providers the interoperability technology and 
price advantages with respect to the central office equipment.
Research and develop intelligent living ICT services, construct a mutual platform for the respective industries and promote the development of application services in emerging industries. Develop MOD-HDTV to promote the development of the relevant digital contents 
industries.Operational DevelopmentSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendixStakeholder
FeedbackResponsible
Operation
14We are an active participant of the various 
events of the TeleManagement Forum to 
raise our international reputation. We have
campaigned for Taipei to be the host city for 
the “2010 TMF Management World Asia” 
event.
The Telecommunication Laboratories located 
in the outskirt of Chungli City, is responsible 
for the R &D projects of frontier telecommunication 
technology to improve our competitiveness.
http://www.chttl.com.tw/
Key Action 
Items
R&D and Innovation
A business enterprise’s capability in R&D and product innovation is the major drive for 
business growth. In response to the impact of changes in the overall environment, our telecommunication laboratories assume the responsibilities of R&D and work together 
with numerous tertiary institutions and academic organizations in Taiwan to undertake 
research in the innovation of next generation technology. Our R&D expenditure for 2008 amounted to approximately NT$ 3.2 billion. Besides continually enhancing our services network and improving the overall quality of service, we also develop diverse, 
quality products and services with the optimal goal of “becoming the most reliable and 
valuable provider of information and communications services”.
We trust that by addressing the key CSR issues with our unique corporate resources 
and specialization to improve the corporation’s competitive environment, we may create the mutual benefits for the society and the Corporation. Mature corporate social 
responsibilities shall become integrated with the enterprise’s core activities for the 
benefits of organization unification and innovation.
In future, we plan to incorporate our R& D policies with respect to product, production and 
sales and human resources management into strategic CSR planning according to our own 
resources and core competency. Meanwhile, we will consider internal conditions and ex -
ternal demands and give a serious thought on the type of social issues that genuinely help 
and create the maximum positive influence to formulate CSR strategies that are systematically planned and with clear objectives. We will continue to improve the subsequent implementation efficiency and performance of the relevant CSR projects through collection 
and analysis of performance data. The major results of our study in 2008 are as follows:
Be Informed of Environmental Changes and Ensure Strategic 
Competitive Advantages
Study the operating performance and innovative management strategies of 
benchmark telecommunication providers, competition and development trends in the telecommunications industry and the Corporation’s operating strategies in 
response to the development and evolution of digital convergence.
Study and analyze reinvestments and cooperative strategies, SOP of domestic and global strategic alliances, multiple management approaches and investments by Taiwan-capital entrepreneurs.
Study the SMP supervisory policy and countermeasures adopted by major nations, 
analyze regulatory revisions of other nations and follow up and discuss the NCC policies.AppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder 
FeedbackResponsible
OperationOperational Development
15
Undertook microwave construction projects 
in rural areas to provide telephone and Internet 
connection services.
TeleManagement Forum
TeleManagement Forum (TMF), set up by primary 
companies of the Telecommunication Industrial 
Chain, aims to assist the Telecommunication 
companies in the world in running Operational 
and Business Support System(OSS/BSS). Ever 
since the deployment of New Generation 
Operations Systems and Software (NGOSS) 
in 2000, we have been actively involved in establishment of technical standards. 
We have not only published many papers 
on TMF Case Study, we have also presented 
several speeches at the past meetings. Also, 
we have worked on “One Stop FMC Service” 
Catalyst Project with TELUS Telecom, Amdocs, 
Infosys, TechMahindra, TCS, NSN, Microsoft and other unlisted companies. The project 
was given the permission to report achievementsat the TMF annual conference for three
consecutive years. In 2008, the project was even 
awarded the prize of Best Catalyst Project 
Management 2008 at the World TeleManagement Forum.
http://www.tmforum.orgRefinement of Development of 3G Technology, Offering of Diverse 
Premium Services
Developed the 3G “Talk Assured” service system and prepaid “Ideal Card” (mobile data 
value-added service platform) to enhance our competitive edges, increase customer retention rate and attract more new customers to subscribe with us.
Developed the 3G Mobile phone audiovisual service system, allowing 3G subscribers 
to view a rich source of real-time audiovisual programs. This will be applied in the various types of mobile phone TV services in the future.Developed the Hami service platform exclusive for 3G iPhone subscribers to offer 
differentiated value-added services.
Wise Utilization of ICT Core Technology, Integration and Pro-
motion of Intelligent Living
Completed the development of the Telematics On-road Information Services system 
and the mobile taxi satellite dispatching system.Completed the development of the Environmental Sustainability Management 
System (EARTH) that offers the functions including tree planting and the management 
of electricity and water consumption, lighting equipment, resource recycling, environmental conservation innovation and inventory of greenhouse gas.In line with the “Broadband Everywhere” project of the National Communications 
Commission (NCC) and the construction of the broadband network in tribal villages, 
we have developed an integrated wireless local and broadband Internet access system, which has already gone live at over ten locations in Taiwan.
Continual Enhancement of System Functions, Improvement of 
Overall Service Quality
Completed developing the Near Real Time Roaming Data Exchange of the International 
Roaming services. Improve the timeliness of fraud detection from 24 hours down to 4 hours.
3G RSV/MOS/RAN View and Core View/Roaming View real-time surveillance and 
analysis system went live, which effectively improve the timeliness of the surveillance and analysis of the network quality.Completed the upgrading of the five major IT systems that maintained the mobile 
mega infrastructure (MNOC/TIME/MTRIS/MBASIS/MORIS) and managed over 10,000 
base stations and core network equipment of the 3.5G/3G/GPRS/GSM network.16Responsible Operation
Corporate responsibilities are beneficial in restoring market confidence. The 
value and success of an entity are closely tied to the question of whether the environmental, social and corporate governance considerations are integrated into corporate management and operation.
Our vision for “Responsible Operation” is to become the “Most Reliable” entity. 
With respect to corporate governance, we have established the CSR Management Committee in 2006 in addition to adopting a policy of segregating the duties of our Board of Directors. We have consolidated CSR with corporate management and at the same time, established the risk management system to reinforce our pursuit of becoming the most reliable entity.
We consider that information transparency is a key indicator of responsible 
operations. Besides improving the transparency of our financial information, in 2007, we have published our first Corporate Social Responsibility Report with the objective of disclosing non-financial corporate information. In future, we will continue this endeavor to enable shareholders and stakeholders to better understand our initiatives on environmental, social and corporate governance 
issues.Corporate Governance
Risk Management Mechanism
Improvement in Information
Transparency
Corporate Code of Ethics
Rules of Conduct for Sales and
Marketing Staff
Communication of CSR
Information with Investors
The Most
Reliable
Ethical
OperationRisk
ManagementCorporate
Governance
Management
Approach
Key Issues
Major
Responses
Key Action 
ItemsAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder
 FeedbackOperational
Development
17Responsible Operation
Corporate Governance
In an effort to become the most reliable entity, we have appointed experts from the 
various fields to take up the roles as our independent directors upon privatization of the company. We have high expectations for our independent directors, hoping that 
they may help to further enhance our existing corporate governance practices with their 
expertise, while also take up the vital role as dutiful supervisors for our risk management practices and ethnical operations on behalf of the public.
The Chunghwa Telecom Board is comprised of 13 directors and 3 supervisors, including 
3 independent directors and 7 non-executive directors. There are 3 functional committees 
namely Strategy, Audit, and Compensation Committees. The Chairman is acting concurrently as the Chief Executive Officer. Independent directors offer the Board professional and objective comments according to their areas of expertise and assist the Board making the most beneficial management decision for shareholders. All our directors and supervisors 
are covered by indemnity insurance to protect them from being personally liable for or 
suffering any financial loss on a litigated event as a result of performing their duties.
In order to enhance the efficiency of executive decisions of the Company, the Board 
hereby establishes the Strategy Committee. The members of this committee shall consist 
of 5 directors of the Company and hold meetings as may be authorized by the Board. 
Any and all conclusions of the Committee’s meetings shall be submitted to the Board.
The committee also holds special meetings to within its discretion to discuss and review 
the major corporate development issues. However, all meeting findings shall be submitted to the Board of Directors for resolution. Major corporate development issues include:
Budget compilation and revisionCapital increase or decreaseNew re-investments and capital increase, capital reduction, or withdrawal of investmentsApplication or return of business license
Reorganization of business groups or affiliated enterprises
All mid-term and long-term development plansOther major issues
The Compensation Committee was established in November, 2005 comprising of 5 directors, among at least one of the committee’s members shall be an independent 
director that shall serve as the Chairperson. The committee’s authority is to formulate 
the proposals for the following:
Directors and supervisors’ remunerationRemuneration of the Chairman, CEO, and President 
Other matters delegated by the Board of Directors2007 CSR Report 
Our Commitment to CorporateGovernance:
To our way of thinking, corporate governance is 
not just a matter of sound financial performance. 
Corporate social responsibilities and genuine 
concern for employees are also of paramount 
importance…. Of even greater importance 
to us though is integration of our corporate 
social responsibilities as a part of our 
corporate governance framework through the establishment of the CSR committee.
Management
ApproachAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementStakeholder 
FeedbackOperational
DevelopmentSocial
ContributionResponsible Operation
18Our audit committee was established on September 21, 2004 and is comprised of 3 
independent directors. The Committee is responsible for supervising the corporation’s financial operations and the functioning of the internal controls system through a fair 
and objective approach. The committee has the following duties:
Appointment (or dismissal) of the Corporation’s independent accountants and 
determination of the audit engagement fee.Review and discuss with the independent accountants the Corporation’s annual reports 
and interim financial statements.
Communication and interaction with the Corporation’s independent accountants.Approve independent accountants’ annual audit and non-audit service items.Coordination of conflicting views between the management and the independent auditors in relation to the financial statements.
Review the appropriateness of the internal controls policy as well as any revision to 
the policy; Issue the Statement of Internal Controls System.Discuss about other financial information of the company and the report prepared under the U.S Securities and Exchange Act with the Company‘s management and 
independent accountants.
On August 20, 2008, our largest institutional shareholder, the MOTC, reappointed 2 
independent institutional directors. On the same date, we convened the 5th special meeting of the 5th term of Board of Directors, appointing Mr. Lu Shuye-Ching (formerly the President) as the Chairman and Mr. Chang Shiou Tong (formerly the Vice President) 
as the President. Code of Corporate Governance
http://www.cht.com.tw/CompanyCat.
php?CatID=912 
Management
Approach
Chunghwa
Telecom Board
of Directors
Strategy CommitteeDirectors and supervisors’ remuneration; remuneration of the Chairman, Vice 
Chairman, CEO, and President; other matters delegated by the Board of Directors.Compensation Committee
Audit Committee
Fair presentation of the Corporation’s financial statements; appointment (or 
dismissal) of the independent accountants and overseeing the independence and performance of the independent accountants; effective implementation of the Corporation’s internal controls system; compliance with the regulatory 
requirements; management of the Corporation’s existing or potential risks.Organizational Chart of the Chunghwa Telecom Board of Directors
3 Supervisors
Review of the budgets or any revisions where applicable; assessment of capital 
increase/ reduction; review of financial forecasts or any revisions where applicable; matters related to new investments or capital increase by investee companies ; review on granting or revocation of the business license; review 
of mid-term and long-term development plans.AppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder
 FeedbackOperational
Development
19Responsible Operation
Risk Management Mechanism
For the purpose of enhancing our initiatives for responsible operations and identifying and 
controlling risk events, we have put in place the “Chunghwa Telecom Risk Management Standards” (the “Standards” henceforth) for our employees to refer to in performing their 
duties. The Risk Management regulations include the following:
Risk Awareness Goal Setting
Risk Event Identification  Risk Analysis
Risk Evaluation Risk Treatment
Control Process Information 
& Communication
Risk Monitoring
Besides, the Standards also clearly set out the framework and process of risk management operations as well as the authorities and responsibilities assigned to the respective 
departments. The Standards require that we carry out risk management of various plans of Chunghwa Telecom and subsidiaries including the med-term and long-term development projects, the annual business and contingency plans, new implementation projects and 
business execution reporting according to actual requirements. Furthermore, the Standards 
also require that we ensure that risks are maintained at a manageable level with the aid of the risk management network, systemized records and follow-up management.
Risk Management Structure
Organization
Board of Directors 
(including Audit and StrategyCommittees)
High-Level Management
(CEO, President and VP)
All Departments at the 
Headquarter (Operation and Planning Department is theOffice of the ExecutiveSecretariat)
Affiliated Branches and
OfficesJob Responsibilities
Establishment of policy, structure and culture regarding risk management.Ensure the effectiveness of risk management system and perform resource allocation.Carry out risk management proposals adopted by the Board of Directors.Coordinate inter-departmental interactions and communications in relation to risk management.Summation of the results of risk management execution.Assist and supervise risk management activities conducted by branches and offices.Determine and change risk classification according to the changes in the environment and recommend the risk endurance methods.Carry out daily risk management activities.Self-evaluation of risk management activities.
The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
system effectively tracks and manages the 
various risk events.
Management
ApproachAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementStakeholder 
FeedbackOperational
DevelopmentSocial
ContributionResponsible Operation
20External Risks & Countermeasures
Risk management is the most fundamental issue of corporate operation. Internal risks 
are more easily managed while external risks are more difficult to be kept under control. The key to external risk management is dependant on periodic evaluations of the risk 
factors and the countermeasures adopted by an entity.  Traditionally, external risks that 
attract our attention are primarily natural disasters and policy and regulatory changes.  However, as business operations are going global, it is becoming increasingly important that we incorporate some of the most talked about global subjects as the benchmarks 
for managing external risks such as CSR risks including climate change, corporate fraud 
and the ethical supply chain to name just a few.
Natural Disasters
Abnormal weathers caused by climate change may potentially impact the functioning of our stationary control stations and manpower dispatching. For instance, additional manpower required for service restoration due to a disruption by a draught or other 
natural disasters, the additional backup power required as a result of an earthquake or 
tsunami and consumer compensation payments will significantly increase the maintenance costs of our power stations. The global increase in temperature caused by emission of greenhouse gas will inevitably result in higher energy consumption by and expenditure 
on the control stations.
During 2008, our communication facilities were stricken by 4 typhoons, especially that 
Typhoon Kalmaegi and Sinlaku brought massive rainfall, inflicting severe damage to the central and southern part of the island. Local call and mobile communication facilities in some regions were severely damaged, causing serious disruption to our service. 
During the period of disasters, we have immediately activated our contingency 
mechanism and used all our available manpower and supplies to overcome the hazards such as power stoppage, flooding and bridge/road blockage to restore normal service in a timely manner.
Our experience shows that “Disaster Prevention is More Important than Disaster Rescue” 
and on the basis of our concept, “More Preparation, Less Loss”, we are dedicated to enhancing our disaster prevention measures from time to time. We undertake regularfacility maintenance, inspection and upgrades and reinforce disaster prevention measures in regions more susceptible to impacts of natural disasters in order to keep 
potential loss at the lowest possible level.
Management
ApproachAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder
 FeedbackOperational
Development
21Responsible Operation
Countermeasures for Policy & Regulatory Changes
The National Communications Commission (NCC) is the competent authority governing 
the operations of telecommunication service providers in Taiwan. Any change in the NCC policy or regulatory requirements may impact the results of our operation. For instance, 
the fact that NCC has pushed for Chunghwa Telecom to liberalize access to last-mile 
connections would impact our fixed line voicemail and ADSL businesses. The NCC’s continual tariff adjustments and reduction in the usage charges on mobile voice services have sliced our revenue on mobile services. On top of that, an increasing number of 
operators have been licensed to cut into the VoIP market, delivering a direct impact on 
the local, long-distance and international call markets. To tackle the abovementioned changes on our business operation, we have offered additional total value-added services to raise our operating revenue while continued to enhance communications with the NCC to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements.
Smooth Roads Project and Countermeasures
We have cooperated with the “Smooth Roads Project” undertaken by the Public Construction Commission, Executive Yuan, to lower existing manhole and handhole covers to below the pavement level in order to improve the quality of asphalt paving 
work when roads are repaved. We plan to keep infrequently used manhole and handhole 
covers underground in line with the government’s target of decreasing the number of unused covers and at the same time moving covers to underground to ensure smother roads and improve citizens’ satisfaction on road quality. Our optimal goal is to become 
the most reliable entity.
Climate Change and Countermeasures
Given the crisis of global warming, CO2 emission is a hot issue at hand. We have 
commenced the groundwork for carbon inventory. In future, we plan to perform 
analysis on the carbon footprints of our various services. Besides undertaking energy 
conservation and carbon reduction management within our corporation, we will offer 
low-carbon products and services to proactively influence consumers’ carbon awareness and jointly create a low-carbon economy.
CSR Risks and Countermeasures
With respect to CSR issues such as corporate fraud and the ethical supply chain, we have reinforced employees’ compliance with the Corporate Code of Ethics. Moreover, we have established a CSR Committee and gradually the respective management 
systems will be put in place. In 2008, we started to propel supply chain management 
by formulating environmental, human right and ethical standards requiring our suppliers to aide by. We also attempted to establish a social investment management system. In future, we plan to establish a stakeholders’ communication management system. National Communications Commission 
http:/www.ncc.gov.twAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementStakeholder 
FeedbackOperational
DevelopmentSocial
ContributionResponsible Operation
22Improvement in Information Transparency
Enhancement of corporate governance practices has become our set policy in order to 
achieve our target of becoming the most reliable entity. The transparency of our published information becomes the most critical review benchmark. Besides improving the transparency 
of our financial information, we published our first Corporate Responsibility Report in 
2007, disclosing the corporation’s non-financial information, which allowed shareholders, investors and stakeholders to understand our initiatives with respect to environmental, social and corporate governance issues.
In 2008, we have completed the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP) surveys. Participation in the surveys proved to be an invaluable exercise as it enabled us to further understand the global trends in the development of environmental sustainability and CSR requirements and ways in which an entity may apply such requirements in practice on the dimension of corporate management. Participation 
in the surveys may be described as an eye-opening exercise in that it broadened our 
visions for and imaginations on any dimensions of CSR.
Forward Exchange Incidence
In September 2007, we have entered into a forward exchange knock-out agreement as required by circumstances. By the end of February 2008, due to rapid appreciation in our home currency against the US dollar, a significant unrealized loss on valuation of 
the investments resulted. We immediately convened a Board of Directors meeting and 
investor and press conferences in early March 2008, making a public announcement on the status of the event domestically and overseas as well as disclosing the relevant statistics, allowing all to understand the situation in the shortest time possible.
The Board also formed a Special Task Group to handle the subsequent events. In October 
2008, the contract automatically expired when the exchange rate for the US Dollar against the NT Dollar reached 32.7. We made a gain of approximately NT$ 30 million upon settlement. Our highly transparent approach in handling the incidence has won us the trust and support of our shareholders and customers. Our endless effort will be devoted to the following aspects 
of business management including continual information disclosure and establishment of an 
effective communication network between the management team and the board of directors and supervisors to ensure full exertion and reflection of the Board’s expertise and fairness.
Legal compliance is fundamental to realizing our CSR initiatives. Besides being an honest 
taxpayer, we have ensured compliance of our business operations and employee conduct 
with the regulatory requirements through the following control.
Key IssuesAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder
 FeedbackOperational
Development
23Responsible Operation
Corporate Code of Ethics
We strictly require satisfaction of our employee’s conduct with the ethical standards. 
That is, all employees of Chunghwa Telecom shall abide by a code of conduct and ethnical standards as they do business and while performing their duties. As such, we 
have formulated the “Chunghwa Telecom Corporate Code of Ethics” to be used by 
employees as the basis for performing their duties.
The code of ethics clearly outlines the ethical standards and responsibilities required of 
directors, supervisors, executive officers and all employees while engaging in business 
practices.  The code of ethics applies to individual employees and groups and the corporation 
when dealing with the public and other stakeholders. The code of ethics is now a part of our corporate training programs for new employees. Each employee also takes tests every year on the code of ethics. In 2008, close to 100% of our employees have taken the test.
Rules of Conduct for Sales and Marketing Staff
Our first-step communications with customers are achieved through sales and marketing. We have put in place the Rules of Conduct for Sales and Marketing Staff in order to improve the standards of our sales and marketing practices and build up consumer satisfaction on 
the corporation’s products and services, which will in turn reduce customer complaints 
and disputes. The rules have been drawn up in accordance with the applicable law and cover advertising, articles and leaflets, promotions, tele-marketing, free giveaways, prizes and handling of customer information. The rules have been incorporated as a part of the 
performance review process in relation to senior executive officers. Each department is 
required to continually reinforce compliance with the rules by their teams to ensure an overall sound corporate image and goodwill.
The Chunghwa Telecom’s ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange for trading 
and as such, we are also subject to the governance of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. Article 404 
of the Act stipulates that we make appropriate disclosure of the Corporation’s financial 
information and put in place a series of internal controls and procedures to prevent the information from internal and external threats or unauthorized access to ensure the completeness and confidentiality of customer and shareholder information.
In spite of our effort in preventing unlawful sales and marketing practices, there were 
5 incidences of sales misconduct in 2008 and we were fined NT$ 1.84 million by the competent authority. However, the results saw a significant decrease comparing to 2007. In future, we will definitely keep up our effort in governing our marketing approaches to 
improve customer satisfaction.Sales & Marketing Practices In Breach 
of Law and the Total Amount of Fine
2007 2008Total Amount of Fine (Thousand NTD)
Incidences of Legal Violation
(No. of Cases)
4,300
11
1,840
5 Codes of Ethics
http://www.cht.com.tw/CompanyCat.
php?CatID=911
Major
ResponsesAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementStakeholder 
FeedbackOperational
DevelopmentSocial
ContributionResponsible Operation
24Communication of CSR Information With Investors
We have not only accomplished brilliant operating results but were also the first entity 
in Taiwan to establish a CSR Committee in 2006. Our purpose is to facilitate proactive communications and interactions with our stakeholders in all respect. Domestically, 
we have been a part of the Global Views Monthly Magazine CSR Award and Common 
Wealth Magazine Corporate Citizens Award evaluations. On the global scale, in recent years, we were invited to respond to international surveys including the DJSI and CDP evaluations. We view that our participation in completing these surveys conducted by 
prominent domestic and international institutions is a way of demonstrating the 
transparency of our corporate information.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes
The fact that Chunghwa Telecom’s ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange for trading and that we are ranked among the TOP500 global enterprises, we have received consecutive invitations to participate in the annual DJSI survey, competing 
with some of the largest multinational providers of fixed line telecommunications to be 
included in the index.
In 2008, we responded to the DJSI survey for the first time. In spite of the fact that we 
were not listed in the index, we have performed better on the economic side while 
there was still some room for improvement with respect to environmental and social 
issues according to the DJSI benchmarks. We have confidence in achieving better results in the 2008 survey for we were the first telecommunication provider in Taiwan to complete greenhouse gas inventory with third-party collaboration and accounting of social and charitable investments.
During the period from 2002 to 2008, the weightings of the DJSI benchmarks for 
telecommunications providers were constantly changing. The DJSI benchmarks the sustainable performance and risk rating of major global companies through an assessment on the companies’ strategy, management and industry specific factors in the economic, 
social and environmental dimensions to include the top 10% companies in the indices 
as benchmark companies for related financial product developments and investment evaluations.  The significant increase in the weighting of the social aspect explains the fact that global investors have gained increasing interest in “corporate social responsibilities”.  Our approach in promoting our CSR initiatives is to learn from the experience of global 
benchmark companies. Our vision is to become one of the world-class benchmark 
companies in the years to come.
The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes were 
jointly launched by Dow Jones and the Swiss-
based Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) 
Group in September 1999, initially including 
the top 10% sustainability-driven companies 
(rated on the basis of over 3,000 component 
stocks included in the Dow Jones Industrial 
Index) in each industry sector as component stocks. The DJSI were a type of “Social 
Responsibility Investment” indexes.
http://www.sustainability-index.com
Key Action 
ItemsAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder
 FeedbackOperational
Development
25Responsible Operation
World mainstream institutional investment 
companies initiated the Carbon Disclosure 
Project in 2003. Each year, the CDP invites 
over 2,500-3,000 major global companies to 
disclose the risks of climate change confronting 
their corporation and the potential opportunities 
for development. The CDP investor project is 
backed by some 475 institutional investors with a total of US$ 55 trillion worth of assets under 
management and holds the largest corporate 
database of climate change information in 
the world. 
http://www.cdproect.netCarbon Disclosure Project
The issue of climate change has attracted worldwide attention. In a business that is highly 
sensitive to changes in the operating environment, we have planned years ahead with respect to energy conservation. The National Energy Conference 2009 and the Energy 
Management Act and the Reusable Energy Act that were passed recently have indeed 
signaled for carbon management to become an integral part of corporate management.
On the international level, the CDP has become the benchmark for global entities 
in “Disclosure of Carbon Management Information”. In 2008, over 1,550 companies 
around the world participated in the CDP, disclosing their statistics on greenhouse 
gas emission as well as the strategies and countermeasures to address the threats and opportunities brought upon by the global climate change.
To demonstrate our emphasis on the issue of climate change, in 2008, we have initiated 
a carbon inventory project, which would also prepare us for participation in the CDP 
survey. We will incorporate carbon management into our thoughts in innovating and 
developing our various products, technology, service and business models to gradually pave out the foundation for carbon management and secure the potential business opportunities. We hope to leverage on our core competency and make our contribution 
to the country’s progress in creating a low-carbon society and developing a low-carbon 
economy.
CSR Information Feedback Mechanism
CSR
Information
Management
SystemCSR Information Request from External Stakeholders/
Organizations
CSR Secretariat as the Main Contact Window
Hold the Kick Off Meeting chaired by the CSR Committee 
Members/
Attendees are 6 working groups and relevant departments
Each group take charges of the responsible
part of survey
CSR Secretariat compiles surveys and provides the
feedback to stakeholders as well as follow up the results.26Stakeholder Feedback
Chunghwa Telecom’s vision for “Stakeholder Feedback” is “Caring and Sharing”. 
For our employees, we hope to achieve “mutual trust, responsible, growing and sharing”; and for our customers, we hope to “show care any where at any time”; and for our chain of suppliers, we hope to gradually establish an experience sharing platform for CSR management.
CSR OrganizationStakeholder InvolvementCSR Management
Employee AssuranceEmployee Diversity
Harmonious Labor RelationsEmployee RightsHealth and SafetyTraining and DevelopmentPromote Career Opportunities 
Promote Career OpportunitiesConsumer TrustImprovement of Service Quality
Service Satisfaction SurveyConsumer Privacy ProtectionOpinion FeedbacksReduction of Adverse Service Impacts
  
Electromagnetic Wave IssueSupplier Management
Environmental Principles
Principles of Human Rights and Ethics
 Caring
and Sharing
SupplierConsumerEmployee
Management
Approach
Key Issues
Major
Responses
Key Action 
ItemsOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
27CSR Organization
Identification of stakeholders and their participation in corporate management are 
fundamental to an entity’s CSR. The promise and support of senior management is moreover a vital source of strength to promote an entity’s CSR initiatives.
In June 2006, our “CSR Committee” was formed comprising of senior executives from 
the various departments, to engage in the planning of the CSR strategic map and the relevant activities. The purpose of the Committee was to create a new corporate culture by making our dialogue with stakeholders become a normal part of our business. We 
adopt a management ideal of “collaboration” to jointly formulate valuable and meaningful 
goals for sustainable development, which will be pursued by 6 working groups. We learn about and listen to the needs of our stakeholders to obtain the required information and achieve the desired results.Chunghwa
Telecom
CSR VisionCorporate Mission
Innovative, High Quality,
Affective, Trustworthy
Customer Relations
Proactive, AvailableCommunity
Contribution
Bridging Digital Divide
Environment Protection
Disadvantaged People
CareTeam Culture
Mutual Trust,
Responsible,
Sharing,
Growing
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation
CSR Secretariat
Corporate
Volunteerism
GroupConsumer
Care GroupEnvironmental
Sustainability
GroupChunghwa Telecom CSR Committee
Consultants
Digital
Opportunities
GroupCorporate 
Governance
GroupEmployee
Care GroupChunghwa Telecom CSR Committee Organizational Chart
Management
ApproachOperational
DevelopmentResponsible 
OperationSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
28Environmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
Introduction on the Chunghwa Telecom CSR Working Group
Working Group 
CSR Secretariat
Corporate
GovernanceGroup
Employee Care
Group
Consumer Care
Group
Environmental
SustainabilityGroup
Digital
OpportunitiesGroup
Corporate
VolunteerismGroupDepartment
in Charge
Public AffairsDepartment
Finance
Department
Human 
ResourceDepartment
Marketing
Department
Administration 
and AssetsManagementDepartment
Operations
and Planning Department
Chunghwa
TelecomFoundationPublicAffairsDepartmentMission and Function
Establish a mechanism for interactions and communication with stakeholders. Coordinate and communicate the operations of the CSR working groups.In conformity to global standards.Establish high-standard corporate governance practices.Establish a mechanism for interactions and communication with stakeholders.Protect shareholders’ benefits.Constantly promote employee’s rights. Open communication and consultation avenues offer a healthy and safe workplace environment.Offer disadvantaged groups employment opportunities.Treat long-term customer care and information transparency as our corporate mission. Establish a sound channel of communication with consumers and consumer welfare associations.Constantly promote environmental conservation, energy conservation, carbon reduction and resources recycling, to name just a few.Strengthen cooperation with suppliers or the relevant R
&D organizations to develop more 
environmentally sustainable/low-carbon solutions.Create an environment and opportunities for fair application of ICT. Assist disadvantaged groups to gain access to information services and create digital opportunities.Expand diverse digital opportunities on the dimensions of employment, culture and industry.Bridge the digital gap. Offer assistance to local cultural industries.Cultivate community living.Unite local employees and their core competency to promote the various volunteer services.Summon retired employees to participate in volunteer services.Ching-Hu Tsai
Senior Managing DirectorPublic Affairs Department
We consider that CSR activities are not 
only the simple feedback for some specific 
issues.  The Corporation shall give an 
overall thought on the impacts of corporate activities on a longer-term and overall 
dimension. Our approach is to establish 
a formal CSR organizational framework 
closely tied to our day-to-day business 
operations. The 6 CSR working groups are assigned their own responsible 
departments. The CSR Secretariat acts as 
the platform for interactive communication. 
Internally, the Secretariat is the coordinator
between the working groups and
departments; and externally, it is a channel 
of communication between stakeholders and the corporation. Meanwhile, we stay 
close to any latest global trends to ensure 
that our developments are in conformity 
to the global standards.
Our CSR activities began from involvement 
in community charitable events and to 
gradually expand to promote the universality of telecommunication services and create 
digital opportunities. We are now in full 
action for our CSR pursuit and our team 
of dedicated staff is striving to creating 
a rich, colorful, and sustainable society.
Management
ApproachOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
29Stakeholder Engagement Mechanism
Stakeholder
Government
Investor
Employee
Consumer
SupplierSociety Public
NPOs / NGOs
Industry PeerCommunication Channel
Responsible Departments/
Single Window forCommunicationChunghwa Telecom Official WebsiteAnnual Report,Periodic or Special ReportsIntranet:The Chunghwa Telecom Web 2.0 Interactive Platform
Customer Service Hotline
Project Manager assigned toprovide 24-Hour ServicePeriodic or Special Information, Investigation Supplier,Supplier ConferenceCommunity CommunicationDesignated Departments
Taiwan
Telecommunication Industry Development Association(TTIDA)Parties
NCC, The LegislativeYuan, to namejust a fewShareholder
InvestorCurrent
Employee
Consumer
CorporateCustomerSupplier
General Public
Consumers’Foundation, EnvironmentalConservationGroup, OtherOtherTelecommunicationService ProvidersCSR Affairs
Fair Competition,CommunicationManagementFinancial 
& Business 
Status
Corporate Policy,
Welfare/Compensation,PerformanceManagement System,PersonnelDevelopment Affairs, Educational TrainingQuality of ServiceQuality of Service, Fee ChargesCommunicationof CSR Policies
Brand Image
Disadvantaged Group Care,Fee Charges,ElectromagneticwavesIndustrialDevelopmentStakeholder Involvement
We initiate communication with stakeholders and participate in several different organizations. 
We expect to work side by side with these key partners to enhance our capabilities through experience sharing and further exert our industrial influence.
Management
Approach
World Business Council for
Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
We joined the WBCSD in 2006, which is by 
far the most influential corporate alliance in 
the world and their experience in corporate 
sustainable development and corporate social 
responsibility is valuable for most companies. 
In addition to participating in member meeting 
and other relevant meetings, we have also 
published reports on CSR strategies and the sustainability, which is our solid response to 
objects of the organization.  
http://www.wbcsd.org/
Taiwan Business Council for Sustainable
Development (BCSD-Taiwan)
BCSD–Taiwan is a non-profit organization 
formed by large-scale industrial corporate in 
Taiwan in May 1997. BCSD-Taiwan assists the 
members in building a more advanced 
environment management tool and the best
practical measures to respond early to
international trends.  Participation in sustainability 
issues to reinforce our issue management and information transparency is our solid 
response to objects of the organization. 
http://www.bcsd.org.tw/
Taiwan Telecommunication Industry
Development Association (TTIDA)
TTIDA was founded in 2004.  We were one of
the founding members. Currently our Chairman 
is the president of the Association and
furthermore we occupy three member seats 
and two supervisor seats. We will continue to 
combine industrial, academic and government resources via TTIDA, and provide professional 
suggestions for the newly regulated environment.
http://www.ttida.org.tw/Operational
DevelopmentResponsible 
OperationSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
30Environmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
CSR Management
We operate in a highly competitive and fast changing industrial environment. The trends 
such as increasing demand for mobile services and convergence of media telecommunications and network services and climate change are important issues we need to attend to in 
our future business development. We believe that it is vital for an entity to be equipped 
with the capabilities to keep on top of the latest development trends to be adaptable to rapid developments in the regional markets.
We refer to the EU definition of CSR, “a concept whereby companies integrate social 
and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interactions with 
their stakeholders on a voluntary basis” and integrate CSR in our business operations. We trust that sound CSR management is critical to realizing our visions and in the long term, will enable us to face any potential problems or challenges with a more responsible attitude to maximize the value for the Corporation’s business development, 
consumer and stakeholders.
Our considerations for CSR are total, systemized and policy-based. We include CSR 
into our day-to-day operation to ensure that the various CSR issues may be effectively discussed, planned and controlled. Besides instituting the CSR Committee to be the supreme 
command, we have also established six working groups to deal with specific and 
important CSR affairs including the promotion and execution of the relevant projects, controls of effects and information feedback.
Upon establishment of a CSR organization, we are faced with the issue of establishing 
the various management systems and policies. Upon review of our 2-year experience in 
organizational operation, we have put in place a key CSR issues assessment system as 
our first step to propel CSR management. The goals are to ensure smoother functioning of the six working groups and familiarity with the linkage between the respective issues to facilitate segregation of duties.2007 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 
Outlook for 2008:
The directions of our future endeavors to 
improve our CSR performance are as follows: 
Enhance the CSR Organization System: institute the Public Affairs Department to 
be the designated unit responsible for 
coordinating CSR affairs.  Assign Class 1 and 
Class 2 organizations to promote CSR 
initiatives and set up the designated contacts for the respective working groups.
Establish a forum of communication and 
dialogue with stakeholders and enhance 
dialogue with investors, institutional 
shareholders, the supply chain, cooperative 
partners for charitable events, community 
residents and other stakeholders.
Management
ApproachOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
31Assessment of Key CSR Issues
For the 2008 assessment of key CSR issues, we adopted the Materiality Assessment 
Process. We took the levels of “social concern” and “operational impact” as our two major tools to assess and select the respective CSR issues. The CSR Secretariat invited 
the six working groups to convene the materiality assessment meeting and assess the 
CSR issues and contents by completing forms and compiling the results. The major task is to clarify the priority of key CSR issues.
To increase the objectivity of our assessment, we conducted analysis on media reports, 
international standards, and global telecommunication industry benchmarks as well as 
sought the advice of external and academic experts. We then assessed the impact of these issues on our financials, risk management and corporate goodwill to derive the final results for disclosure in the CSR annual report.
We undertook the materiality assessment process and identified our priority CSR issues 
for 2008 as follows: operating performance and economic impacts, improvement in 
information transparency, employee assurance, consumer trust, supply chain management, development of social accounting policies and greenhouse gas inventory.
In light of the increase in the number of CSR issues and the amount of event information, 
besides taking into account the continuation of information disclosure, our future 
reporting focus will be placed on disclosing information related to key, high-priority CSR issues. We will separately disclose regular event information on the Corporation’s official website to improve the readability of the report.Operational
Impact
Social Concern HighHigh
LowLowQuantifiable
Social Contribution(P.53)Greenhouse Gas Inventory(P.74)Employee Assurance(P.32)Supplier Management(P.49)Operating Results andEconomic Impact(P.11)Improvement in InformationTransparency(P.22)Consumer Trust(P.40)
Mr. Chang Tsung Yen, a CSR Committee 
member and Vice President of the company 
leaded six CSR working groups to exchange 
opinions on the relevant issues.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible 
OperationSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
32Environmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
Employee 
Employee Assurance
 
We consider our employees are our most valuable asset. During the financial crisis in 2008, we have chosen to offer “Employee Assurance” as our true commitment to our 
employees. We value employees’ rights and respect their opinions and at the same 
time, we continuously reinforce communication with employees to make sure they can work assured in the aftermath of the financial crisis. We have taken this action to fulfill our CSR, which also demonstrates our emphasis for our employees.  We believe that 
we may only maintain our usual level of competitiveness and accomplish our goal of 
sustainable management with the dedication and assistance of outstanding employees.
As at December 31, 2008, the Corporation employed a total of 24,551 employees.  During 
the year, 335 employees resigned from employment while 728 were newly recruited. The staff turnover rate was 2.2% for 2008. Once hired, employees who do the same job 
are offered the same basic salary, regardless of gender.
Key Issues
2007 Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report
Our Commitment to Employees:
The most vital spirit of CSR is to emphasize 
stakeholder participation and dialogue between 
stakeholders and the company. Employees 
are our most important stakeholders and our 
best partners in promoting the various CSR 
issues. As such, we are serious in promising 
to show higher respect for labor negotiation 
and enhance communication and dialogue with the labor union.
Total Number of Employees at the beginning of 
2007 was 25,864. Total Number of Employees at the beginning of 2008 was 24,138.24,13824,551
2.2
2007 2008Total Number of Employees and
Turnover Rate for 2008
4.39Total Number of Employees (person)
Employee Turnover Rate (%)
We take “Employee Assurance” as our promise and our employees take 
dedicated services as their own responsibilities.  Yu Jhong Yang, a senior 
employee from the Kaohsiung Service Center was the 3rd place in the Best 
Service Employees Category of the “5th Best Service Award”.  On the other 
hand, the Corporation was again named the Best Service Corporation in mobile telephone and fixed line services.Turnover Rate by Category
By Gender 
By RegionBy Age Group Male Female
 2.1% 2.4%
 Northern Area Southern Area
 3.0% 1.1%
 Below 40 41~60 Above 60
7.9% 0.6% 9.4%Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
33Employee Diversity
All of our employees must first take the tests applicable to the job they apply for. These 
tests are open to the general public and all jobs at Chunghwa Telecom are open to members of either sex. In the spirit of providing job opportunities for disadvantaged 
groups, we also allow disabled or aboriginal applicants to pass the tests with lower 
scores.
Employment of Women
As at the end of 2008, the Corporation employed a total of 6,918 female employees, making up 28.18% of our workforce. The proportion of female managers has risen slightly from 21.51% in 2007 to 22.11% in 2008.
We have established sexual harassment prevention measures and complaints handling 
criteria. Dedicated lines, a fax number, an e-mail address and a compliant investigation and assessment committee were set up for handling reported sexual harassment incidences. However, no incidence was reported in 2008. 
Maternity and Child-Care Leave Subsidy
We introduced the maternity leave policy from July 2006 in consideration of the welfare of our female employees. During maternity leave, the policy offers all female employees with a subsidy that is equivalent to 50% of their monthly Insurance salaries of Labor 
Insurance up to 2 years.  During 2008, 125 female employees applied for maternity 
leave. There were 52 people on leave without pay, among which 49 people applied for the subsidy.
Employment of the Physically and Mentally Disabled
Paragraph 2, Article 38 of the “People with Disabilities Rights Protection Act” stipulates that “The number of disabled people capable of performing job duties employed by any given private organization/ institution shall be no less than 1% of the corporation’s total 
workforce.” As of December 31, 2008, we employed a total of 695 disabled employees, 
which was 3.06 times of the regulatory requirement.
Our Fengshan Office donated the reward payment 
of $459,360 received from the Kaohsiung 
County Government to the special fund for 
employment of people with disabilities. Wu 
Ming-De (2nd from the left), Manager of the 
Chunghwa Telecom Fengshan Office represented the company to accept the presentation by Mr. 
Yang Chiu-Hsing (2
nd from the Right), Governor 
of Kaohsiung County.
Major
Responses
30153
Senior
Management 1,987383
Middle
Management7,5032,343
Lower
ManagementGender Ratio
Unit:person
Female
Male
Employee Diversity
The total number of disabled employees that 
the Corporation is required to recruit for 2008 according to regulatory requirements was 227 people. 2007 2008
Female Employees (%)  28.06 28.18
Female Managers (%) 21.51 22.11
Employees with  656 695
Disabilities (person) Operational
DevelopmentResponsible 
OperationSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
34Environmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
Harmonious Labor Relations
Our employees have recourse to a system of claims and appeals and the right to become 
a union member. The collective agreement stipulates that labor representatives from the Head Office and the corporation’s branches and offices convene at least one labor relations 
meeting once every 3 months or special meetings when required. Union representatives may 
also be invited to participate in hiring committees, examining committees and monthly business meetings. One of the directors on the board was also put forward by the union to participate in board affairs in accordance with the resolutions adopted by the Legislative 
Yuan on June 6, 2003.
In January 23, 2009, the Chunghwa Telecom Workers’ Union made a public announcement 
of the list of the 5th term of executive members, supervisors, representatives and staff. Upon re-election, the union was able to fully communicate employees’ comments with the corporation, help to promote harmonious labor relations and the corporation’s business 
developments.
In an effort to improve our manpower structure to cut down personnel costs and look 
after employees’ career planning, in November 2008, we made a special retirement/ resignation offer. A total of 160 employees applied. This offer was made on an entirely 
voluntary basis to demonstrate our concerns for our employees.
Chang Shiou Tong, President of Chunghwa Telecom attended the 1st meeting 
of the 5th council meeting, giving a speech on the corporation’s ideals and 
approaches. The communication with union members was smooth. Chunghwa Telecom Workers’ Union
http://www.ctwu.org.tw
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
35Employee Rights
We held information sessions in two stages to ensure that employees understand the 
amendments to the Labor Insurance Act (adopted in the Legislative Yuan on July 17, 2008) and their own rights.  Stage I information sessions were conducted by experts 
from the Labor Insurance Bureau to give a full report to all departments of the Headquarter, 
district HR managers and members of the Taiwan Confederation of Trade Unions. Stage II information sessions were conducted by the respective district branches and offices and the operation centers, which shall be completed prior to September 20, 2008. A 
total of 77 information sessions were held with a total of 6,827 attendees.
The starting salaries of our newly hired employees are higher than the statutory minimum 
monthly pay (NT$17,280). In order to attract outstanding talents and boost staff morale, we have established the “Employee Performance Review Guidelines” serving as the basis for employee promotion, salary increment (decrement), staff disciplinary actions 
and rewards, training, adjustment to job responsibilities, and allocation of bonuses. 
Based on the results of the year-end performance review, the maximum salary increment is 5%.
Besides, employees receiving outstanding performance reviews are entitled to as high 
as 4 times of the average bonus in accordance with the “Corporate Bonus Distribution 
Process.” We also distribute performance bonuses based on the Corporation’s profitability and financial condition. For outstanding customer service or line maintenance contractors, we have a policy of recruiting them as permanent employees to show our care for them. 
Other measures guaranteeing employee rights are: meetings with the labor union and 
meetings for negotiation of adjustments to the criteria governing employee bonus and performance review. Provisions regarding the shortest notification period and required preliminary work for the negotiation meetings are stipulated in the relevant regulations. 
We approve and notify the relevant employees of any departmental restructure or transfer 
prior to the actual date of change in order to delegate the relevant job responsibilities.
We have high regards for employees’ welfare. 
We regularly invite experts to give speeches 
and the Q & A sessions allow our employees 
to fully understand the impact of amendments to the Labor Insurance Act.
The Chunghwa Telecom Web 2.0 Interactive 
Platform gives employees the opportunity to 
openly express themselves.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible 
OperationSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
36Environmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
Health and Safety
A safe and healthy workplace environment is a fundamental CSR requirement. We offer our 
employees free annual health checkup, organize a number of health seminars and constantly promote the Employee Assistance Program (EAP). We demonstrate our concerns for 
employees’ health and safety through policy setting and resource dedication. In 2008, 
the occurrence of occupational accidents was 0.106%, representing a decrease of 0.027% than in 2007.
Occupational Safety and Health Management System
To offer employees a safe and healthy workplace, we were the first in the industry to introduce an “Occupational Safety and Health Management System”. We involve our employees and their representatives in the planning, construction, execution, review, 
assessment, and improvement of the system. Their involvements help us to carry out 
employee safety and health management under a “policy-based” and “systematic” mechanism. The optimal goal is to improve the quality of operations and the standards of workplace safety.
Certification of the Occupational Safety and Health Management 
System
It is a global trend to obtain OHSAS 18001 certification of the Occupational Safety and 
Health Management System. There are 44 relevant (equivalent) safety and health management system standards developed under OHSAS 18001. To ensure applicability 
of the standards in Taiwan, in 2007, the Council of Labor Affairs of Executive Yuan 
promulgated the TOSHMS (Taiwan Occupational Safety and Health Management System) to match the dual demand of business enterprises of “obtaining international certification” and “in compliance with local regulatory requirements”.
Mental and Physical Health of Employees
In light of the fact that employees’ health is of vital importance to us, we offer our employees more favorable care comparing to regulatory requirements. Each of our employee is entitled to a free health checkup each year. In 2008, we held 219 seminars 
on specific health care topics.  Besides, we hosted 29 fitness contests and 124 inspiring 
tours to enhance employees’ fitness while caring for communities. We also continue to carry out our Employee Assistance Program (EAP), offering employees one-to-one professional consultation services, which include assisting employees to solve mental, 
legal, financial management, medical consultation, job and living problems.
Every operation office has a Fitness Center and 
arranges several fitness training programs 
to improve employees’ physical health.
Gradually, all our operation offices 
will be certified to the OHSAS18001/ 
TOSHMS standards to protect 
employee safety and improve the 
quality of our operations.
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
37Just before the labor day in May 2008, we completed the renovation of the employee 
cafeteria located at the corporate headquarter. The newly renovated cafeteria offers a refreshing and bright dining environment, which we think help revive employees’ spirit 
while working. A fitness center is instituted at each operations office, providing simple 
fitness training equipments for use by employees.
We also encourage our employees to go outdoor, experience nature and make full use 
of our “Chunghwa Telecom Hostel (“CHT Hostel” henceforth).  The CHT hostels were 
remodeled from idle staff dormitories, and currently offer semi self-serviced facilities 
managed by our employees. We have enhanced environmental friendly and energy efficient measures by centralizing procurement of supplies for the hostels, installing solar-energy heating systems on site, offering bicycle rental services and promoting environmental conservation concepts while traveling.  As at the end of 2008, there were 
28 CHT hostels (and a total of 366 rooms) open for us by employees.  Employees are 
only required to make an online reservation 30 days in advance to use the service.
The Chunghwa Telecom Hostels are good, 
budget accommodation choices for employees 
and their families when traveling and a reflection 
of our effort in environmental conservation. 
Pictured above is the “Song Yuan Hostel” in 
Hualien.
We place high emphasis on continual employee 
training and education. We have training centers 
in Panciao, Taichung and Kaohsiung, allowing 
employees to receive training within the proximity 
of their home and workplace. Pictured above 
is the Panciao training center. 2007 2008
No. of Employees Receiving Health Checks 23,378 24,018
% of Workforce Receiving Health Checks 97.08 98.09
Cost of Health Checks 38,734,376 39,851,601
Occupational Accident Occurrence Rate (‰)  1.33 1.06Employee Health Checkup and Safety Statistics
Note: Occupational Accidence Occurrence Rate = Number of Accidents for the whole year / No. of 
Employees= 26/24,551= 1.06 ‰
Employees Training
 2007 2008
Total Training Expense ($) 616,673,532 659,309,528
Average Training Expense Per Head ($) 25,549 26,855
Total Training Hours (Hour) 2,023,112 2,190,419
Average Training Hours Per Head (Hour)  84 89Operational
DevelopmentResponsible 
OperationSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
38Environmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
Training and Development
Employees are important assets for corporate development. Our investment in employee 
training includes general vocational training, elite training programs and subsidies granted to employees to promote further education. The results of these programs 
show an improvement in employees’ willingness to receive further training and hence 
the average level of their vocational competency and qualification.
General Vocational Training
In terms of general vocational training, the three telecommunication training centers in Northern, Central and Southern Taiwan hosted annual training courses covering 8 major vocational competency and operational management topic areas. The classes 
are taught either in the classroom or in long-distance mode through video conferencing 
facilities. In 2008, a total of 2.19 million hours of training were received by employees, representing a total investment in excess of NT$ 659.3 million. 
Elites Incubation and Training
In response to sustainable corporate development and the need for bridging the gap between different telecommunication generations, we have reached an agreement with the National Taiwan University in 2008, marking the beginning of a joint cooperation 
arrangement between the university and the Corporation in wireless communications, 
broadband communications, multimedia DSP and information security. The College of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, being the primary organizer, works with the Graduate Institutes of Management, Law and Social Science, to build a multi-
dimensional platform covering telecommunication operation, policies and regulations, 
and social services. In September 2008, the special “Advanced Telecommunication Network Technology Program” was officially offered for the first time. We expect that cross-sector exchanges and industrial and academic cooperation will be extremely beneficial for our middle and senior management to develop more in-depth operational management 
theories and practical skills. 
Employee Further Education Subsidy
The “Chunghwa Telecom Manager Training Criteria” established in 2007 provides that 
we nominate employees with potential for further development each year and send them to pursue further studies at local tertiary institutions. We also encourage all employees 
to pursue lifetime learning. Any employee in satisfaction of the requirements stipulated 
in the “Criteria Governing Tertiary (Incl. Postgraduate) Education for Chunghwa Telecom Employees” is eligible to apply for a further education subsidy. The maximum subsidy grant is NT$ 20,000 per semester. In 2008, a total of 1,219 employees were granted the 
subsidy, representing a total cost of NT$ 12.68 million.
Diverse professional vocational and management 
training programs to satisfy employees’ needs 
in obtaining new knowledge and advancing their skills. 
Chairman of Chunghwa Telecom (4th from the 
left) and Ming-Je Tang, Deputy Principal of the 
National Taiwan University (6th from the left) 
participated in the orientation ceremony for the “Advanced Course in Telecommunications 
and Network Technology”.
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
39Internal Business Incubation
Besides educational training, we also encourage employees to start up businesses 
within the organization. The “Chunghwa Group Purchase Team” is the first official business incubation group set up under our approval. We use the power of group orders to create 
more benefits for our employees. From October 24, 2007, the Team began cooperation 
with the employee welfare committee. As at the end of 2008, the online order transaction amount was in excess of NT$ 0.2 billion. We expect that all employees will become members by the end of May 2009. The experience shows that we have raised the 
management of employee welfare to a new level and our success stories can also be 
considered for adoption by other enterprises.
“Chunghwa Leading Photonics Tech (CLPT)” is the second eligible group to establish 
under the business incubation scheme. The group takes the advantages of the equipment and technology of our telecommunication laboratories to design and produce 3 types 
of infrared light detection and array image models for application in industrial testing, image 
surveillance at nights, agriculture and military fields. Both local and overseas orders have been received for the product. The Team has successfully marketed the product to Europe including Germany and Belgium.
Promote Career Opportunities
Since our privatization in 2005, we adopted a multifaceted recruitment program. Employment opportunities were made through branches and offices and up to the end of 2008, a total of 2,173 employees (including 138 outstanding contractors appointed 
as permanent employees) were recruited by the corporation. 
In spite of the impact delivered by the financial crisis, we maintain our existing 
management ideal of CSR fulfillment. Not only have we retained all our employees on board during this period of economic downturn, we have also offered additional 
employment opportunities to help ease the hiking unemployment rate. Although the 
outlook for 2009 remains passive, we have set aside a quota for 382 new employees to promote employment, which we consider is a part of our social responsibilities.
Group orders create more benefits for employees. 
The increasing popularity in e-Shopping will 
benefit the promotion of our Internet business.
Key Action 
Items
The Number of New Recruits for the 
Past Years
450
2005
500 0 1,000 1,500 2,000684
274765
2006 2007 2008
Accumulated NumberOperational
DevelopmentResponsible 
OperationSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
40Environmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
Consumers
Consumer Trust
In the increasingly competitive telecommunication services industry, in addition to the 
competition of product prices and functions, we believe that we can only win customers’ ultimate trust in the following ways: maintain sound customer service attitudes, offer 
timely response to customer demands and complaints and make customers feel that 
we are genuinely interested in resolving social issues with our influences besides working hard on improving our profitability. The above actions constitute the true meaning of our CSR initiatives.
Establishment of the Customer Service Department allows us to integrate existing customer 
service resources to respond to and match customers’ various demands in a timely and precise manner and improve customer satisfaction through assurance of service quality. We have implemented an overall reinforcement of measures to protect consumer confidentiality and respond to customers’ requests (including improvement in Internet 
speed, decrease of telecommunication service fees and filtering of junk e-mail messages 
and porn spam) with a responsible attitude. 
We make profits from providing services, and with consumers’ support and trust, we 
have accumulated stronger power to influence our suppliers. In relation to supplier 
management, we drew up the principles of human rights and ethics and environmental 
guidelines governing our suppliers primarily based on the local labor and environmental conservation regulations.
This was our first step to engage in two core issues of the global CSR initiatives-- the 
ethical supply chain and green supply chain. In relation to ethical supply chain management, 
we will bridge with the world step by step, by referring to the standards of labor conditions 
and human rights, safety and hygiene, environmental protection, management system requirements and code of corporate conduct stipulated in the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC) to launch our ethical supply chain management policies.
In terms of green supply chain, we will consider to adopt standards of the “European 
Union including the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment” (WEEE), the “Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS)” and the “Eco-Design Requirements for Energy Using Products (EuP)”. Suppliers will be required to provide easily recyclable, low-pollution and environmental friendly 
products.Global Business Dialogue on
e-commerce (GBDe)
The GBDe has been playing an influential role 
in international e-commerce policies and was 
dedicated to promote comprehensive information 
social policies since it was founded in 1999. 
Upon joining the GBDe in 2004, we took up 
the role as a key member of the Business Steering 
Committee, responsible for promoting and 
working on important committee affairs. Weled the project for establishment of the 
“international small payment working group” in
2005 and subsequently the “digital family working 
group” in 2007. We hosted the “Summit of 
Global Business Dialogue on e-commerce” in 
Taipei in November 2006 which was beneficial 
for our business development as well as escalating Taiwan’s international visibility. 
http://www.gbd-e.org/index.html
Secure Online Shopping Association
(SOSA)
We were one of the founding members of the 
Secure Online Shopping Association (SOSA) 
since it was established in March 1999. We have been an enthusiastic participant in the 
various committee affairs and offering the committee both manpower support and material 
resources. We are in the hope of creating a 
“mutual trust & win-win” business environment 
for consumers and participating merchants. 
In 2008, we served as the president of the 
SOSA. At the same time, we were elected the 
Chairperson of the SOSA by the Asia-Pacific-Trustmark Alliance (ATA) to lead the Taiwanese 
Familiarization Tour Group to take a field survey 
of e-commerce business opportunities in Vietnam. 
In October the same year, we hosted the ATA 
2008 Meeting and eASIA Forum in Taipei.
http://www.sosa.org.tw
Key IssuesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
41Improvement of Service Quality
Overall improvement in the leadership and management skills of customer service 
managers, who were encouraged to obtain the internationally recognized AQF (Australia Qualification Framework) Certification.
Organized the professional training sessions, “Customer Contact Communication 
Skills and Development Abilities” aiming at improving customer service managers’ abilities in quality supervision and performance management.The “Professional Qualification Training for Leading Customer Service Consultants” programs 
were offered in two stages; a total of 80 employees became qualified lecturers.
We conducted the “Customer Service Practical Skills (mobile and digital) Program” for professional certification several times to encourage multi-skill and inter-disciplinary career development of customer service staff. A total of 82 people obtained certification.
Integration of Outsourced Services to Reduce Contractor Turnover Rate
We have put in place the standards and an assessment mechanism governing our outsourced operations, stipulating a reasonable fixed pricing policy and restricted tender invitations. We have consolidated all our external customer service tender invitations from the 35 
cases down to 10. The contractor turnover rate was reduced from 3.34% to 0.78%. 
Certification of Service Quality
All branches and offices had been actively practicing the Service Level Agreement 
(SLA) and Operation Level Agreement (OLA), and holding regular review meetings to improve the quality of customer services to come up with the countermeasures 
for major customer complaints.
All of our customer service hotlines (a total of 15 customer service centers) supporting the various business categories were certified to the SGS Group’s quality standards in December 2008. We received the ISO 9001: 2000 certificate for proof of compliance 
with the SGS quality standards.
Standardization of our teller-service operational procedures was achieved through obtaining the SGS Qualicert service certification. The service quality certification in all geographic areas was completed in 2008. From 2009, we introduced the quality review process applying to all departments and branches to ensure high standards of service.
The overall improvement of service: service level, directory service call transfer rate, 
and customer satisfaction have all improved. First Call Resolution (FCR), first introduced as a KPI in 2008, reached 96.70% far surpassing our expected goal (76.50%). 
We recruit professional lecturers to conduct 
training on customer service skills in order to 
improve the overall service quality and offer 
Inspiring Services to our customers.
Major
Responses
Customer Service KPI
 2007 2008
Customer Satisfaction 4.41 4.71
Rate of Response 
79.1% 87.1%
Within 20 Seconds
First Call Resolution  - 96.7%
Directory Service Rate 15.41%  23.29%Operational
DevelopmentResponsible 
OperationSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
42Environmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
Service Satisfaction Survey
Survey of Fixed Telecommunication Service Quality
For achieving NCC’s requirement to protect consumer’s interests and keep fair competition 
in the market, we drew up the Fixed Telecommunication Service Quality Assessment. The assessment targets are following subjects: the installation course, service failure frequency 
per year, service recovery time, billing accuracy, completion rate of network connection, 
104 directory service test, customer satisfaction and consumer dispute statistics.
Our market share is over 97% in fixed telecommunication network service; therefore, 
our complaint cases are relatively more than other service provider’s. According to the 
2008 NCC survey, 88% consumer disputes were from our customers in 494 cases. 
For better consumer interests and right protection, we will continue to communicate with our customers and improve our services.
Customer Satisfaction Survey
To understand the level of customer satisfaction in relation to our various services and customers’ recognition of our corporate image, brand value and quality and service, we engaged external market research agencies each year to conduct surveys on customer 
service satisfaction. Our target respondents include consumers, SME and LE. This 
survey is designed to find out issues and expectations our customers care about the most for the respective businesses to serve as our goals for future development. 
Note: Customer satisfaction is rated on a scale of 5 
for each group of customers: Very satisfied, Satisfied, Neither Satisfied Nor Dissatisfied, Dissatisfied and Very Dissatisfied as shown by a rating score of 5, 
4, 3, 2 and 1.LE
SMEConsumers
2008 2007 20064.7
4.78
4.65
4.44.184.66
3.93.81
3.66Comparison of Customer
Satisfaction By Group
Major
Responses
Survey on the Quality of Fixed
Telecommunication Service
Unit: No. of cases
200843757
41475
2007
Note: annual survey period is from October of 
previous year to September.Other
Chunghwa TelecomOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
43Protection of Consumer Confidentiality
We carried out the relevant protective measures on the following 4 dimensions to enhance 
protection of consumer confidentiality and prevent customer service staff (including permanent employees and contractors) from unlawfully accessing customer information 
from the corporate information system:
Combat Fraud
To enhance customer care and prevent applications from being made under a false 
name, we send out a written confirmation to validate applications for a new home or cell phone account with our customers. This is to ensure the confidentiality of consumers’ 
personal information and prevent any illegal act from occurring. Some digits of the telephone 
number displayed on an ordinary individual subscriber’s phone bill are marked with asterisk.  However, the full telephone number may be displayed on the bill at the request of the account subscriber. 
In the event where our customers’ telephones were intercepted and used illegally by 
someone else, we will credit the charge incurred from illegal usage upon confirmation of details relating to the case. We also create a record of the details of any reported loss of identification documents notified by our customers through any customer service center in our risk reporting system. We will enhance our background checks on any new application 
made at a branch located in a region different to the applicant’s usual place of residence.Protection
of Consumer 
ConfidentialityLaws and
Regulations
Protecting customer basic information by keeping it “confidential”.
Employees should sign the “business confidentiality agreement”, and their senior executives should take the responsibility in relation with it.In the event where a contractor is involved in confidential business matters, both the contract and his/her employer shall sign the relevant confidentiality agreements.
All branches and offices shall report on the status of their implementation of the measures to protect consumer confidentiality on an annual basis.Customers’ application forms are stored and locked away in designated cabinets.The corporate headquarter and branches shall conduct special audits 
on the various service centers. 
Promote the importance of ensuring the confidentiality of consumer information and the associated legal liabilities from time to time. Internal
Control
System
Management
First-line operators are prohibited from using portable storage device on their computers and sending emails. They also have limited access to Internet connection. Establish the customer information management system and supervisors shall check the inquiry records on a daily basis.  Management of authority limits is included as a key item of periodic and special audits on information security.Protection of Customer
Information
Pre-event control measures: Some of the customers’ personal information is not accessible by base-level operators.Post-event audit and random inspection: A complete record of information usage and inquiry is well documented and maintained.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible 
OperationSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
44Environmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
Opinion Feedbacks
Business growth and service improvements are driven by instantaneous consumer 
demands. We have been self-demanding in listening to and proactively respond to our customers. Fee reduction, the speed of ADSL services and handling of junk mails were 
the most attention-getting issues of our shareholders and the public in 2008. We have 
launched the related measures to deal with these issues.
Reduction of Telecommunication Fees
We reduced the HiNet ADSL and optical fiber Internet connection fees in November 2008 by an average of 8.8%. We negotiated with China Mobile (CMCC),  the largest mobile telecommunication industry in China, about discounts on the usage of international 
roaming services by our customers when traveling in China. Effective from January 
2009, our customers making calls from their mobiles back home from China using the CMCC network will enjoy a 34% discount on call charges, 43% discount on text messaging or a massive 67% discount on digital roaming. Our customers doing business or traveling 
in China are able to enjoy talking leisurely with friends and relatives back home.
ADSL Speed Problems
Technically, we are unable to guarantee the bandwidth of our different grades of ADSL 
services due to distance and environmental constraints. We hope to match our customer’s demands by introducing new technology and reducing fees as well as providing a bandwidth 
testing website to ensure that all our customers are well informed of the relevant information 
regarding ADSL speed. Internet Connection Speed Test
 http://www.hinet.net/support/testspeed.
html
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
45Dealing with Junk Mail and Porn Spam
We have invested close to NT$ 100 million on hardware and software equipment to better 
service our HiNet mail service subscribers through improved functions. In relation to junk mails, we have installed a filtering function on our free webmail service, which filters out 
junk mails. Account users are required to go through the simple setup procedures only 
once to determine as to whether any suspected junk mail is to be “deleted directly”. 
About 90% of junk mails relate to a porn spam. We have offered the K12 mailbox to 
parents who are concerned about their children receiving porn emails. The functions of 
a K12 mail box feature the following: 
Text Filtering: blocking mail with the subject or contents containing offensive terms.
Picture Filtering: Use 11 different types of picture reading methods to block porn spam.Web Feedback: The message, “this is a junk mail” is reported by Webmail to increase the accuracy of the filtering engine. 
Web Server Forced Quarantine: Unlike other service providers who store junk mails 
in junk mail boxes, the K12 mail box enforces a forced quarantine  at server-end.
Mr. Xiang-Yi Chen, the Vice President of HiNet said: “K12 represents the 
“purest mail box” HiNet intends to provide for our minors from kindergarten 
through to year 12.  We hope that our next generation is offered a healthy 
Internet surfing environment.”4646Reduction of Adverse Service Impacts
We have long been striving to provide our customers services free of needless concerns. 
We will continue to develop new services and reduce possible negative impact caused by our products or services. Key points of our endeavors are summarized as follows.
Filtering of Improper Content
To create an Internet environment suitable for children while at the same time offering assurance to parents, we introduced the hiCare (Internet Porno Gatekeeper) Service. This service does not require the user to download or install any software. Our customers can stay 
away from websites containing materials relating to pornography, violence, suicide, drug abuse, 
weapons and gambling that are harmful to children and teenagers. We have a complete multi-language coverage in the blacklist database. Update the database once every two hours to secure the interception rate to almost 100%. We plan to provide this service free 
of charge to the Department of Social Welfare of the Taipei Municipal Government and 
other charitable organizations, representing a total donation of NT$ 3.62 million.
Time Control
The “HiNet online time management” and “3G easy talk” services are provided to elementary school students and junior high school students who are learning to acquire time management ability. Parents can set online time periods and call limit using these 
services. Our unique advanced management functions allow parents to control children’s use of 
mobile phones and Internet, and make specific bill settings. These services enable parents to train up their children to adopt a good habit of using telecommunication services.
Protection of Telecommunication Security
We introduced the “HiNet One Time Password” device and “caller blacklist” to protect the interests and rights of our customers. The “HiNet One Time Password” device randomly generates a set of one time password every 60 seconds, which may only be used once. 
This device helps prevent theft of account numbers or illegal access to personal information 
by fraud gangs through a fraudulent website. The device is currently used by the Chunghwa Telecom members and in authentication of HiNet small-sum payment, Yahoo! Kimo account lock and HiNet auction.
The “caller blacklist” allows our customers to add the phone number of any unwanted 
caller to the blacklist. The system will then filter unwanted calls by rejecting to make a connection. Any private-number call or call with an unknown number will be automatically diverted to voicemail. This service effectively blocks disturbing calls from fraud gangs to ensure the security of customers’ phone service.
We are not only an Internet services provider 
but are also serious about the possible impacts 
of our services. The “Internet porno gatekeeper” 
and “online time management” are our actions 
for CSR fulfillment. 
 HiNet Safe Online
http://www.hicare.hinet.tw
The small and portable one-time password 
device requires no computer connection or
installation of any software. The two-way 
authentication mechanism effectively prevents 
account theft scams, enabling the user to freely 
use Internet services.
 HiNet one-time password
http://otp.hinet.net/
Major
Responses47
We sponsored the Mountain Hiking Event to 
find out dead spots of telecommunication services 
in order to provide unobstructed services. The 
event concluded with huge success. Three 
managers from our Mobile Service Group and 
hiking experts took a photograph together.Electromagnetic Wave Issue
Being the largest mobile telecommunication service provider in Taiwan, we established a 
wide and complete electromagnetic signal network, providing omnipresent telecommunication services. Integration of the third-generation broadband mobile telecommunication and 
Internet provides not only voices but more applications and services including mobile 
multi-media, mobile video, mobile Internet and e-commerce etc. Users can keep in contact with other people at anywhere such as in underground rapid trains, mountains or even other countries. For any emergency circumstances, users can seek helps by 
dialing a special number. Our employees will keep our telecommunication network fluent 
for a whole day to improve people’s living convenience.
Electromagnetic Waves Safety & Propaganda
For ten years since 1996, the WHO has spent US$ 250 million on the research of international electromagnetic fields. Project participants included a number of developed countries such as the USA, UK and France as well as some prominent international organizations 
and research institutes such as the ITU and ICNIRP. As concluded in the No. 304 document 
published by the WHO in May 2006, there was no reliable scientific evidence supporting the claim that weak radio frequency signals generated by base stations and wireless networks may cause harmful impact on human health according to an extremely low 
level of exposure values and data collected by scientific research till this date.
In an effort to educate the general public on correct electromagnetic concepts, we co-hosted 
the “Understanding Electromagnetic Waves of Base Stations” seminars in different parts of Taiwan with the TTIDA. Academic speakers and experts gave a precise speech on the electromagnetic wave issue, which was supplemented by on-site measurement 
using precision apparatus. Journalists were able to give fair reports of the electromagnetic 
wave issue in a scientific and rational approach. Meanwhile, the Corporation and other telecommunication service providers also requested the TTIDA to centrally publish the various propaganda materials relating to the electromagnetic wave issue. In 2008, the 
TTIDA published the following propaganda materials: the “2008 Propaganda Journal”, 
“environment-friendly bags/cups”, “baseball caps”, “portable storage device” and “easy tags” as well as a massive amount of posters for distribution to our branches and offices and other relevant governmental and private organizations to reinforce the results. WHO No. 304 Document
http://www.who.int/mediacentre/
factsheets/fs304/en/index.html
Key Action 
ItemsOperational
DevelopmentResponsible 
OperationSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
48Environmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
Beautify Base Stations
To ensure network performance and complete service coverage, providers of mobile 
communication services have built base stations everywhere. Construction of an excessive number of base stations is rather harmful to the existing environment and views. 
People have developed psychological rejection towards base stations.
To reduce the impact of base stations on existing landscape and ease people’s visual 
impact, we have used special designs to beautify the antennas installed at our new and existing base stations. Different forms of design were used according to location and 
the surrounding environment. For instance, we have used color painting, garden lights, 
trailing plants and special patterns etc. Around 46.6% of our base stations were beautified as at the end of 2008.
Impartial Measurement Company
To clear the doubts of people living near base stations on the issue of electromagnetic waves, the Corporation and other telecommunication service providers have set up a hotline “0800-873888” for arrangement of a free electromagnetic wave measurement 
service. An impartial measurement company will conduct a free on-site measurement 
and give expert opinions. In 2008, we have accepted 168 applications.The Process of Electromagnetic Wave 
Measurement Service
The applicant lodges a complaint
Counter service staff confirms the responsible 
telecommunication service provider and 
sends out the contact letter.
Send the contact letter to the service 
provider that accepts to handle the 
compliant.
The service provider accepts the complaint 
and informs the NCC, counter service staff and applicant of the countermeasures.
A third-party measurement company 
conducts on-site measurement and fills 
out the electromagnetic wave measurement 
record sheet, draws up a map of the measurement site, and sends the measurement 
results to the service provider.
The service provider passes on the 
measurement results to the NCC, counter 
service staff and applicant. All correspondences are kept in file for reference.
Key Action 
Items
We have ensured sound integration of base stations essential for mobile 
communication services with existing landscapes to satisfy the varying 
needs of our stakeholders.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial
ContributionStakeholder Feedback
49Supplier Management
We insisted on a principle of conducting impartial and serious business cooperation 
with our suppliers. We adopt a verification process to ensure the quality of apparatus provided by our suppliers. We also reinforce the self-management mechanism governing 
suppliers to ensure the quality of our telecommunication services. The optimal goal 
is to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities and achieve the purpose of elimination through competition. 
Based on the principles of fair and ethical trade, the Labor Standards Law and the Taiwan 
Environmental Law, we have drawn up the management principles governing the standards 
of environment and human resources required of our qualified suppliers. 
Environmental Principles
We require our suppliers to comply with the relevant local regulations governing environment protection in Taiwan. In response to global warming, we urged our suppliers to cut down energy consumption and the level of impact on the environment caused by their 
products or services.
The Corporation and our suppliers offer joint assurance on the fact that the processes 
of manufacturing, delivery of products and services and waste disposal are conducted in a responsible way to the society and environment.
We encourage our suppliers to assume a level of environmental responsibilities 
higher than the statutory requirements to show their commitments towards reducing harmful impact on the environment.Our suppliers are required to obtain the permit for all manufacturing activities.We encourage our suppliers to engage in product development and innovation and 
come up with solutions benefiting the environment.
Principles of Human Rights and Ethics
We are in compliance with internationally accepted principles with respect to the protection 
of the human rights of our employees. We work with suppliers who are also in compliance with the principles. The following standards are recognized under the Labor Standard 
Law, which shall also be complied by our suppliers:
Ensure the security and confidentiality of the information entrusted by the Corporation 
and we shall only cooperate with suppliers who value the same practice.Suppliers shall not offer any agreement, bribes, commissions, rebates, gifts, invitations 
or other unlawful benefits to our staff. The same applies to our contractors. We shall 
terminate or revoke the agreement if the supplier is in breach of the above.Suppliers shall comply with the relevant standards of the Labor Safety and Health Act while performing the contract.
The EICC covering human rights, labor safety 
and health, environmental protection, management 
system requirements and standards of corporate 
ethics, serves as an important guideline for 
development of our future supplier management 
policies.
 Electronic Industry Code of Conduct
 http://www.eicc.info
Major
Responses50Social Contribution
We have been maintaining the corporate concept of “giving back to the 
society what we benefited from it”. The fact that we are the largest provider of composite telecommunication services with our extensive network and service coverage across Taiwan and its offshore islands shapes our self-awareness for social contribution. For many years, we have leveraged on our core competency and worked robustly to create value for our society and improve the living standards of our citizens. 
In response to the requests of domestic and offshore stakeholders, in 
2008, we have made cash donations and offered free products and services with the purpose of bridging the digital divide and making our part of the contribution to social charitable events. The total amount of our donation for 2008 was estimated to be NT$ 248 million, making up 0.43% of our operating profit.Five Dimensions of Social ContributionChunghwa Telecom FoundationCreate Digital Opportunities
Quantifiable Social ContributionTelecom Universal Services
Promote Digital LearningBridging the Digital DivideCorporate Volunteerism
Community Cultural Industry
Charitable Telecom ServicesCharitable Activities
The ADOC 2.0 Project
Improve
the Quality
of Life
Care for the
DisadvantagedCommunity
AssistanceInformation
Support
Management
Approach
Key Issues
Major
Responses
Key Action 
ItemsOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
51Five Dimensions of Social Contribution
We have categorized different forms of social contribution into the following 5 dimensions: 
“Hardware Infrastructure” is fundamental to people-to-people communication; “ Product or Services Donation” makes information technology more valuable; “Research and Innovation” 
is centered on assisting the disabled to mutually share the convenience of communication 
services; “Corporate Volunteerism” gives our employees the opportunity to directly take advantage of their expertise and be involved in enriching lives in communities; the “Chunghwa Telecom Foundation” is our pioneer in creating digital opportunities.
Jing Liao Village is the starting point for our 
Digital Good Neighbor project, covering new 
migrants, school children to cultural assets.
The Five Dimensions of Chunghwa Telecom’s  Social Contribution
Chunghwa
Telecom
Foundation
Digital
Good
Neighbor
Click Taiwan/
Touring Taiwan
Taiwan
Indigenous
 Peoples’ Web
CommunitiesProduct/
Services Donation
EduCities
Website
Concerns
for New
Migrants
Phone Call
To Home
Service for
Jail InmatesToll-free
Short
Code
Service
Anti
Telephone
Fraud
Emergency
 Rescue
System
Special
Charitable
Number
Service
System
Radio Station 
Sea RescueResearch &
Innovation
Physically and
Mentally
Disabled
Information
System
Distance
Working for
the Visually
Impaired
ADOC
2.0Corporate
Volunteerism
Project
Plan
Education and 
Training
Information
 Volunteer
Charity/
Volunteer 
Websitee-Tutor
Program for
Remote School 
Children
Promotion of
Environmental 
and Ecological
EducationHardware
Infrastructure
Broadband 
Access
to Tribal
Villages
Terrestrial 
to Satellite
Project
FTTB for
Every
School
Management
ApproachOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
52Appendix
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation
The “Chunghwa Telecom Foundation” was founded in 2006. Besides our concerns for 
environmental issues, our founding mission is to integrate our core competency with social resources to assist with the development of community culture, bridge the digital divide 
and be involved in the cultivation of community living. Our endeavors are centered on the 
local culture and we take community involvement and services as the starting point. Our optimal goal is to make our contribution to community development in Taiwan.
Our major work include the following:
Assist the Local Culture and Industry: Construct the “Click Taiwan” website, offering 
the community and industry a platform for information exchanges. We hope that through text, images and videos we can join hands with local enterprises to record their efforts and the stories created in local communities.Bridge the Digital Divide: To bridge the digital divide by establishing Digital Good 
Neighbor facilities in remote parts of the island that will offer equipment and broadband 
connections. The Foundation’s aim is to provide resources and volunteers to improve the quality of life, education, and industry in deprived local communities.To Enrich Lives in Local Communities: Chunghwa Telecom’s volunteers are helping 
communities with sustainable development through active and affective participation 
in local issues. 
Create Digital Opportunities
With respect to social contribution, we place special emphasis on the concept of “creating digital opportunities” , which is closely related to our core business. Our dedicated team of technical experts traveled far and deep into remote regions to build 
a major part of the broadband network, paving the foundation for our endeavor 
in creating digital opportunities. With the backup of hardware facilities, we have gone a step further to make product or services donation or other special offers to remote communities. And our work does not stop there. To maximize the benefits of our 
products and services, the Foundation’s corporate volunteers have been dedicating 
themselves to educating the remote population on the application of digital products and services. Besides caring for the next generation’s growth, our work also extends to assisting with the local cultural and industrial developments and looking after the disadvantaged groups. We hope to achieve digital-inclusion in the society with our total, 
bottom-up effort.
Chunghwa Telecom FoundationCreate Digital
Opportunities
Education  Culture Industry Volunteerism
Corporate Volunteer Services
Product/Services Donation
Hardware Infrastructure
Illustration of “Creation of Digital Opportunities”The Chunghwa Telecom Foundation has 
installed the “Digital Good Neighbor” sites 
at 29 remote locations. In addition to 
installing digital hardware equipment at 
the sites and setting up digital classrooms, 
the Chunghwa Telecom employee volunteers 
have assisted to promote a digital learning 
environment within the communities that has helped disadvantaged people narrow
the digital gap and also created digital 
opportunities. The optimal goal is to allow 
the power of technology to grow and take 
root within the local communities.
In 2007, the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation
and the Tourism Bureau, Ministry of Transportation and Communications, 
joined efforts to organize the “Touring 
Taiwan” project, taking cultural tours to 
every part of the island with the objective 
of enhancing and depth and authenticity 
of travel in Taiwan. The Foundation will 
continue to leverage on the corporation’s core competency to actively create digital 
opportunities for remote and disadvantaged 
communities on the various dimensions of 
CSR including education, local industry and 
culture and volunteerism.
Management
Approach
Mike Lin
CEO of ChunghwaTelecom FoundationOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
53Social Contributions for 2008Quantifiable Social Contributions
At the request of domestic and offshore stakeholders, we estimated our social contributions 
for 2008 to total NT$ 248 million, making up 0.43% of the operating profit. Our next step is to continuously enhance quantification management and communication of our social 
contribution initiatives.
Quantification of social contributions is vital in that the statistics will help us make more 
appropriate resource allocation to avoid duplicate investments, effectively integrate financial and non-financial information and satisfy the needs of our stakeholders for life 
quality.2007 CSR Report
Our Commitments to DigitalOpportunities:
In future, we will continue utilizing both direct 
and indirect methods of assisting communities 
and disadvantaged groups apply Internet 
technologies to improve their communities 
and personal quality of life and promote the 
development of community and tribal cultural 
assets. This continues to be our unwavering 
commitment to create digital opportunities. 
Fixed line telephone services were not available to the residents of the Xian-
Bi region of Tai-An Village, Miaoli County. Farmers relied on cell phones 
to conduct their businesses but frequently encountered problems due to 
poor reception. Our colleagues from the Miaoli Operation Office installed 
the fixed line telephone and broadband services network for the locals 
at a total cost of NT$ 2 million, severing approximately 20 households. 
Chunghwa Telecom absorbed the total costs of this project. The costs of 
making call service available to each household amounted to about NT$ 100,000 per household. Type of Social Contribution Amount
Cash Donation  71,380
Product or Services Donation  176,136
Grant Total  247,516
Social Contributions As a Percentage of Operating Profit 0.43%
Key Issues
Unit: Thousand DollarsOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
54Appendix
Telecom Universal Services   
We have been working on our long-term objective of achieving the universality of 
telecommunication services in the country, allowing citizens to have access to basic telecommunication services. At present, the household penetration rate for fixed line 
telephone services is 98%. We have offered over 220 thousand households telephone 
services and 28,000 households data communication services in over 81 remote and economically deprived areas, installed over 20,000 sets of public telephones in 25 counties/cities and offered data communication intercepting services to some 3,700 primary and 
high schools and public libraries. We have also cooperated with the government’s initiative 
in promoting a 100% school penetration rate for Internet services and raising the broadband usage rate. By the end of 2008, we have assisted 81.03% of remote schools to gradually switch from their existing ADSL network or data circuit over to FTTB.
Broadband Access to Every Village
By the end of 2007, NCC planned to implement broadband infrastructure in 46 village, in which we have completed 43 village (93%). In June, 2008, NCC planned to implement broadband infrastructure in 50 tribes, in which we have completed 42 tribes (84%). 
Above accomplishment has reached 7,388 villages and tribes, which covers 75% of the 
families in Taiwan.
We also take the initiative to provide 31 primary schools in 42 tribes with premium rates 
in compliance with NCC’s project called “Broadband Access to Every Village”, including 
free installation, free circuit and internet access fee for 2 years, free anti-virus and 
antihacker services for 2 years, free HiNet learning e-card for 2 years, and 2 notebooks. In addition, we also donate PC to communities, held computer courses, help the residents to design the website as well as to teach them the computer skills and help them to promote their agricultural products and tourism.
We have promoted over 1,500 broadband users in areas where we have constructed the 
broadband network under the “Broadband Access To Every Village” and “Broadband Access to Tribal Villages” projects. The broadband household penetration rate has grown from 0% to 30% and our services have indirectly improved the living standards of 
residents in remote areas and promoted local developments.
Terrestrial to Satellite Project
From 2004, as requested by the Council of Indigenous Peoples of Executive Yuan, we 
began construction of a direct satellite broadcast system to improve the problem of poor reception in tribal villages. As at the end of 2008, we have installed the system in 
a total of 64,620 households.
Network construction is fundamental to bridge 
the digital divide. Our active devotion to this 
project reflects our disregard for the initial 
hardware construction costs and subsequent 
repair and maintenance expenditure. Pictured 
above is the engineering site in Chihshang 
Village, Taitung.
We have not only created network but also offered 
computers, the true “eFamily”. Pictured above is 
the A-Li Tribe in Wutai Village, Pingtung.
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
55Promote Digital Learning
Network services enable a remote tribal village to connect to the globe and create infinite 
possibilities. We believe that digital opportunities are built on the creation of digital learning environments for remote communities, tribal villages and disadvantaged groups.
Digital Good Neighbor
The project, “Digital Good Neighbor,” started in 2006. The Corporation and our team of some 24,000 employees were dedicated towards accomplishing the corporate promise of creating digital opportunities. By the end of December 2008, we have completed the 
construction of 29 Digital Neighbor Sites, and donated 466 computers and 355 sets of 
computer software equipment to remote areas and tribal villages. We introduced the various resources according to specific needs and different features of community industry developments. Our goal is to enable digital learning to take root in every part of the 
remote regions by joining the efforts of CHT and other sources of volunteer services.
PunCar Action
The PunCar Action was undertaken by a group of bloggers and enthusiasts, realizing the 
concept of “Delivering Nerdy Boys to Villages” in their own unique way. A second-hand van was transformed into the PunCar-a van equipped with Internet technology and online 
communication devices, commissioned to conduct digital education in deprived communities. 
The creative and practical way of teaching gave the students at the digital sites an extremely fun learning experience.
EduCities Learning
“EduCities”, the first Internet educational city of its kind in the world, responds to the real world, connects people and the current education and carries out the learning activities online. The programs, “English Vocabulary Marathon” and “IQ king” are popular among 
students and teachers of primary and secondary schools across the island. In 2008, over 
500 schools registered for the programs with over 170,000 students signed up for the competition. Meanwhile, in an effort to promote the criticalness of environmental issues such as global warming and climate change, “EduCities” has launched the anti-global 
warming, dream building campaign in hope of making our children show more care and 
love for the Earth. 
The cute PunCar van was surrounded by a 
group of enthusiastic children.
The digital site located in Jiamu Tribal Village, 
Wutai Township, Pingtung was inaugurated! 
The Rukai women extended their warm greetings 
for Mr. Lin, CEO of the Chunghwa Telecom 
Foundation and our corporate volunteers.
The final of the “English Vocabulary Marathon 
Competition”. Winner of the Distinction Award 
from the Junior High School Category excitedly 
joined Mr. Ma Hong-Tsian, Head of Marketing 
Department, Data Communications Group for 
a photo together. EduCities
http://www.educities.edu.twOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
56Appendix
Major
Responses
Jingliao Village
Jingliao Village in Tainan was our starting point for the Digital Good Neighbor project.  
Corporate volunteers were assigned to assist newly immigrated foreign spouses 
build up their computer literacy through weekly computer lessons.  A strong bond 
was formed between our volunteers and the newly immigrated foreign spouses.
“Yi-Chang Rice Grinding Factory” was founded in the early period of Taiwan’s restoration 
in 1945 and ceased operation in early 2006. The style of the factory is simple and 
ancient and 80-year old rice grinding machine made purely of wood is moreover 
a precious antique. Our corporate volunteers took part in the factory restoration 
project. The purpose is to allow our future generations to see the ancient cultural 
objects that are of high historical significance.
Tung Yuan Village
Mr. Wen Wei-Luan, Chief of the Tung Yuan Village has returned to his hometown from the city only two years ago due to his father’s illness. He has been an advocator 
for digital learning. We joined efforts with the volunteers of Chiao Tung University 
to teach indigenous children how to use the blog, improve photo-taking skills and 
organize small-scale artwork presentation. The objective is to help these children 
enjoy the fun of learning and build up their confidence.
Hsin Hsin Primary School
In November 2008, we organized an orientation program, which took place at the Hsin Hsin Primary School in Jin Fong Village, Taitung, allowing the local advocators of the 
“Digital Good Neighbor” site and volunteers to get to know each other and undertake 
information exchanges. Besides experience sharing and improving understanding, 
we hope to duplicate the success stories of the “Digital Good Neighbor” project to 
create more digital communities.
Banoh Tribe
The Banoh Tribe located in the Nan Juiang Village, Miaoli County became widely known due to a TV ad on automobiles that was filmed there. In the ad, the village was located in 
an mountain environment with winding roads and beautiful landscapes. It has become a 
popular tourist attraction subsequently and at the height of its popularity, reservation for
the local B & B must be made 6 months in advance. However, the area observed a 
significant decline in its local tourism industry after several typhoons inflicted severe damages on the area. It became This, however, gave the local residents more time 
to rethink the future for their tribe. 
The local travel agencies together with the advantages of borderless Internet facilities 
offered the local people much hope in allowing the public to learn more about their 
Atayal culture. After the computer room was put in use, a series of computer training 
programs were also planned and offered. The local people are pondering on ways of 
constructing their own tribal blog to create more business opportunities for the tribal 
families.
Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
57MeMelihang Worshop
The MeMelihang Workshop was founded with the mission for continuing the 
Atayal Dying and Weaving Culture. The Studio is a prominent teaching center for the 
traditional indigenous weaving and dying art. In 2008, we helped the MeMelihang 
Workshop to undertake digital archiving of the Atayal weaving artwork. We offer 
the digital tools to allow more systematic and comprehensive preservation and 
continuation of the indigenous culture.
Lohok Tribe
Mr. Wang, a teacher at Song Pu Primary School in Yuli Township, Hualien, who came to work in the remote town from the big city, has fell in love with the tribal 
culture every since his arrival. Mr. Wang has expressed his appreciation for the fact 
that continuation of the Amei Culture shall begin from early childhood and that digi-
tal application tools are essential to achieve this purpose. In light of this, Mr. Wang 
worked with tribal youth groups to promote digital learning and document the bits 
and pieces of tribal events using digital application tools. In addition, they were also 
able to create the tribal stories on the website with the aid of network facilities. At 
present, we have trained up near 10 school pupils to assume the role of the tribal 
journalists. Just log onto the tribal website and you can browse articles written by these junior journalists as well as details of the cultural collection stories.
With all’s encouragement, the Lohok Tribe began to try out organic farming.  Details 
of the trial process were published on the website, allowing interested parties to 
keep track of the latest development. The objective is to create new opportunities for the tribal people using digital applications.
Yuanaye Cloth Workshop
In order to create a stable source of income for the tribal families, Mr. Cheng, the Principal of Hsin Hsin Primary School in Taitung, founded the “Yuanaye Wood 
Workshop” and “Yuanaye Cloth Workshop” by joining the various resources. The 
workshops create a variety of products made by cloth and wood with a rather 
limited supply of resources. The Chunghwa Telecom Foundation made its share of 
contribution by inviting leading designers to discuss with the workshop artists about 
their creative work while offering them some valuable tips to ensure a delivery of 
higher quality and more mature products.
Lijia Tribe
The Lijia Tribe is located near the popular Alishan National Scenic Area. The communities have been hoping to utilize the power of broadband network to promote the local 
industries. In 2007, the Lijia Tribe was the first “Broadband Access to Every Tribal 
Village” site gaining access to Chunghwa Telecom’s broadband services. The Li Jia 
Primary School, with its comprehensive computer equipment, is the most popular and 
convenient public space for the villagers. We installed the “Digital Good Neighbor” 
site in the village to allow the children construct a website and blog for their own 
home place, introducing technology into their living.
Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
58Appendix
Bridging the Digital Divide
We fully understand the importance of NPOs (Non-Profit Organizations) on social 
welfare.  As such, we make product donations, online promotion and donation of e-Receipts to support the development of the various social charitable organizations.  
Specific for the disadvantaged groups such as low-income families and people with 
disabilities, we offer several different plans at much reduced rates to help them gain access to high-efficiency communication services at relatively low costs.
Discount of Telecom Services Fee
*1: We offer plans at much reduced rates for 
 the visually, hearing, and vocally impaired 
 applicants and double the premium on 
 domestic communications services. They 
 can choose either the 2G “88 option” or 3G 
 “183 option” and in addition we double the
 value of the original low monthly rates on 
 domestic communications (NT$ 88 or NT$ 
 183) providing NT$ 176 or NT$ 366 of
 service at the same low cost.
*2: The visually and vocally impaired applicants
 can choose the 2G “188 option” or 3G “183 
 option” and be entitled to 300 free on-net 
 SMS messages and 100 off-net SMS
 messages.
*3: A manual communication service featuring 
 customer service representatives of the 
 Hearing Impaired Service Hotline passing 
 on the messages of the hearing impaired 
 caller to a normal callee.Description
Number of Low Income Households with Broadband Internet 
Discount (256K/64K & 2M/256K at 50% off the normal monthly fee)
Number of Low Income Households with NT$ 600 Phone Card Discount Per Year
Number of Disabled People with Broadband Internet Discount 
(2M/256K at 15% off the normal monthly fee; others at 0.5% off the normal monthly fee)Number of Disabled People with “Care and Love Premium A” 
*1
Number of Disabled People with “Care and Love Premium B” *2
Number of Visually Disabled People with NT$ 200 Phone Card Per YearNumber of Telecom Transit Calls for Those with Speaking 
and Hearing Difficulties 
*3Item
1
2
3
4
56
7Performance
5,6337,030
1,022
1,499
1,5581,170
585
Major
Responses
The “Children Are Us” Bakery and Cafeteria located at the basement level 
of the corporate headquarter. The Foundation paid for the upfront interior 
design costs as well as the monthly water and electricity bills to offer long-
term employment opportunities for these disadvantaged children.Information current as at December 31, 2008Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
59Taiwan Indigenous Peoples’ Tribal Portal Site
The “Taiwan Indigenous Peoples Tribal Portal Site” gives the tribal people the opportunity 
to utilize the web’s resources to set up a website for their tribe, a channel to allow the external world gain knowledge on their tribe. As at the end of December 2008, there were 
over 591 tribal websites being constructed. Upon review, we offered a $ 20,000 subsidy 
program to 40 (out of 43) respective eligible tribes that constructed their own websites by using the web resources in 2008. We also organized events or computer training sessions to enhance computer usage by the tribal people with the longer term goal of promoting 
digital learning opportunities.
The subsidy program has proven to produce brilliant results. For instance, the Makazazai 
Tribe of Pingtung county published a detailed record of the traditional Paiwan wedding ceremony on their tribal website for many to take a glance at the solemnity of the tribal wedding ceremony. The Banaguali Tribe located in Taian Township, Miaoli had a longstanding 
problem of lacking broadband access and inability to get online and the $ 20,000 subsidy 
grant was the solution to their problem and also allowed the tribal people to start their computer training. The Madawdaw Tribe of Taitung County offered traditional bark weaving courses to hand down their handcrafting techniques to the next generation.
Care for New Immigrants
Due to changes in social and economic trends, the population of foreign spouses is expanding. Statistics shows that one out of every 8 newborn were the children of foreign spouses. We help the foreign spouses and their children to bridge the cultural gap with 
our actions.
Over 600 phones calls per month were received through the dedicated line “0800-
080508” designed specifically to look after the life of newly immigrated foreign spouses. This toll-free number provides services in 5 different languages (Mandarin, 
English, Indonesian, Thai, and Vietnamese), offering extremely helpful living consultation 
services to newly immigrated foreign spouses.
In order to assist new female immigrants in obtaining learning materials and adapting 
to life in Taiwan, we have completed 100 volumes of multimedia course materials for families of the new female immigrants. The course materials are broadcasted on the 
MOD platform free of charge. In 2008, more than 97,000 people benefited from the 
program. In addition, we also donated this program to several governmental organizations and charities.
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation is a long-term 
supporter for the Taiwan Indigenous Peoples’ 
Tribal Websites.
http://www.hohayan.net.tw
On the Mothers’ Day Fair, we offered newly 
immigrated foreign spouses free international 
calls to relieve their nostalgic feelings for 
their home town.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
60Appendix
Corporate Volunteerism
Being a highly local provider of telecommunication services, our service network covers 
the entire nation. Besides corporate resources, we have some 24,000 employees, who are our most valuable manpower resources in assisting with the corporation’s initiatives on 
community, social concern, and environmental and ecological issues. Our telecommunication 
expertise enables us to become the pioneer in creating digital learning opportunities.
On November 30, 2007, we completed Taiwan’s first “Corporate Volunteer Service 
Guidelines and Plan” in accordance with the spirit of the Volunteer Service Act. The 
Guidelines and Plan will serve as a basis for us to promote volunteer services and care 
for communities.
By the end of 2008, 678 CHT employees (2.76% of the CHT workforce) have completed 
volunteer training courses and were awarded the “National Volunteer Service Booklet.” In addition, due to differences in the service projects, we have conducted a total of 
10,690 hours of special training on volunteer services.  We also offered a total of 49,355 
hours of corporate volunteer services through different charitable events by joining our corporate resources and corporate volunteerism.
Remote Classes for Children of Remote Areas
In May 2008, we joined efforts with the Fu Jen Catholic University to undertake the distance tutorial project for school pupils living in remote areas. We leveraged on our core telecommunications resources to share the Joint Net platform, donated computer 
software/ hardware and provided subsidies for circuit price spreads to resolve remote 
schools’ inability to expand their existing digital facilities due to budget constraints. We do what we do because we are fully aware of the fact that helping school pupils living in deprived regions quickly pick up their schedule of learning is the very first step in 
narrowing the digital gap between urban and remote areas. In addition, we have also 
involved local corporate volunteers to take charge of the repair and maintenance of school computer facilities
On top of the attentive tutorials given by the teachers from the Fu Jen Catholic University, 
we place high emphasis on pupils’ character building. On the other hand, the extended 
“Glad To See Each Other” event not only helped children from remote regions the 
opportunity to broaden their vision but also for teachers and students to interact face to face, enhancing the warmth between the tutors and students. We have not only successfully delivered concerns the urban people have for the remote people but also 
inspired the remote pupils’ planning for and thoughts about their future.
Chunghwa Telecom volunteers (right) assisted 
remote schools to resolve communication 
problems.
The Banciao training center provided the venue 
for the “Glad to See Each Other” event and accom-
modation arrangements for the students.2007 CSR Report
Our Commitments to DigitalOpportunities:
We introduced the “Corporate Volunteerism” 
project in 2007 to create more opportunities 
for our enthusiastic employees to be actively
involved in community events. Backed up by 
a systematic and well-planned project, we 
encourage our employees to demonstrate 
their kindness and potential, taking the Chunghwa 
Telecom’s mission deep into the communities to create more digital opportunities for the 
locals.
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
61A Documentary Film on Environmental Conservation – 
The Man Who Plants Trees
In July 2008, in an effort to fulfill our open commitment to the society and encourage 
people to integrate the “Going Green” art into their daily living, we provided an exclusive sponsorship for the documentary film “The Man Who Plants Trees”, which tells a true 
story on LU Ming-Shih, a man who vows to plant trees along the Tropic of Cancer.  
Production of the film took over a year with the crew going out of their ways to obtain countless interviews with the main character and experiencing his spirit of “action is louder than words”. The audience is deeply intrigued by the authenticity of the passion 
for land and nature. The documentary film was nominated by environmental conservation 
groups as an excellent teaching material for ecological education.
Besides a nation-wide screening tour and free downloads from MOD and hiChannel, 
we have also offered the film for organizations and groups to use free of charge. We also invited experts to write a teaching program on screening of the film. The green 
concepts are communicated to viewers of different ages to awaken their passion for 
this land- Taiwan!
Promotion of “Biodiversity” 
Starting from fall 2007 to June 2008, we joined efforts with our business partners and green organizations to promote the concept of “Biodiversity” by going to 104 schools across the nation to promote the concept of going green by planting native trees. It was 
a warm, inspiring activity with our friendly volunteers accompanying the school children 
to touch, exercise and experience the softness of soil together and get to know the resilience and vital force of native species.
Unification of our love for the earth and concerns 
for the disadvantaged people: our corporate 
volunteers accompanied children with multiple 
disabilities to experience the nature.
 The Digital Forest Green Thumb Event
 Journalhttp://blog.xuite.net/chttree/treeblog
The exclusive website of the documentary 
film not only provides online filming but also 
a platform for opinion exchanges.
 The Man Who Plants Trees
http://life.cht.com.tw/TreeManOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
62Appendix
Community Cultural Industry
Little Market Place & Little Indigenous Market Place
At the end of 2007, for the purpose of promoting local industries, we organized a 3-day 
“Forest Black Tea” fair in “southvillage” located at the commercial circle within the proximity of the National Taiwan Normal University. The event was a huge success in 
that we have successfully marketed a local brand outside of the local community, which 
received overwhelming popularity. Beginning March 2008, the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation once again joined efforts with southvillage to host a series of activities for exhibition of local produce. Besides, during the period from March to June 2008, we 
organized 6 story-sharing events about the origins of some local industries with community 
industry participants including the Fuh Ting Aboriginal Development Center (Hualien), Varasa Workshop (Titung), Yuanaye Cloth Workshop and Wood Workshop (Hsin Hsin Primary School), Melihang Workshop (Miaoli) and Cidiyao Farm (Nantou).
During the period from August to November 2008, a total of 13 local industries participated 
in the little market place events that took place at “southvillage” including: Forest Black 
Tea, Varasa, Cidiyao, Melihang Workshop, Yuanaye Wood Workshop and Yuanaye Cloth Workshop and so on.  A fruitful sale of approximately NT$ 1 million was created through The “Little Market Place” and “Little Indigenous Market Place” events 
that lasted for over 6 months.2007 CSR Report
Our Commitments to DigitalOpportunities:
From 2006, the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation 
has launched different projects in 16 communities 
nation-wide. Prior to including each community 
to our project, we undertook detailed study and 
several field visits, including full interactions with 
the local people until we are certain about the 
true needs of the local residents for information 
services. We then draw up a constructive project and action plans, which we implement step-
by-step with revisions to the project plan from 
time to time with our corporate manpower and 
resources.
Major
Responses
The little market place at “southvillage” narrows the distance between re-
mote and urban communities as well as the producer and consumer. We 
not only integrated network with actual events, but have also assisted with 
the development of local culture and industries.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
63Click Taiwan
In 2008 the website of “Click Taiwan” has contained information on over 100 community 
cultures, 74 unique community stories and over 100 documentary films. In 2009, we expect to add 16 community life stories about “Digital Good Neighbor” to the website so 
that more people can understand the beauty of Taiwan. 
Starting February 2009, we started to publish the monthly “Click Taiwan” ePaper of 
which contents are presented in different subject areas. The ePaper gives the reader an introduction on the abundant contents of the “Click Taiwan” website and some interesting 
local stories associated with the “Digital Good Neighbor” communities and other local 
industries. At present, the “Click Taiwan” ePaper has attracted close to 10,000 subscribers. In future, we will continue to add more diverse and in-depth contents to the ePaper to enhance the compactness between the “Click Taiwan” website and “Click Taiwan” community partners.
Touring Taiwan
Based on the concept of “Click Taiwan,” Chunghwa Telecom Foundation and the Tourism Bureau of the MOTC co-organized the event, “Touring Taiwan & Tell Your Own Story,” in 
November 2007.  We invited 50 celebrities and 150 travel experts to write their own 
travel stories and construct a database containing over 300 scenic spots classified under 
the Natural, Cultural, Local and Energetic categories. In January 2008, the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation and Reading Times co-published the book, “Touring Taiwan, Celebrities Telling Their Own Stories”. In light of the overwhelming support received 
for the first book, in June the same year, we published the 2
nd book “Touring Taiwan, 
Follow the Experts”, taking our readers for an in-depth, inspiring tour of Taiwan with 
the experts.
To continue the awesome feelings inspired by traveling, we donated the full amount of 
the royalty payment for the first book “Touring Taiwan, Celebrities Telling Their Own Stories” to support the “Charity Tour for Children” program, which provides for children from deprived regions and disadvantaged children living in metropolitan areas to genuinely 
feel the beauty and warmth of Taiwan through travel exchanges and experiences. The 
“Charity Tour for Children” program organized four, 2-day itineraries of art, cultural, science and local experience tours. Children can freely choose their favorite tour as they prefer and enjoy a fun, special tour that enables them to learn at the same time.
Children who participated in the charity tour 
expressed their heart-felt gratitude through 
their drawings.
 Click Taiwan
http://www.clicktaiwan.com.twOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
64Appendix
Charitable Telecom Services
Toll-Free Numbers and Public SMS Services
We provide various toll-free numbers (local telephone and mobile), such as 110 (police), 
113 (children and women protection), 118 (coastline crime reporting), 119 (fire), 165 (anti-fraud inquiry), 1922 (national epidemic situation report), and 1957 (assistance), a total of 
eight numbers. In addition, 1985 (MOD consultation service) is a local telephone toll-free 
number. In 2008, the total expense on public communications service is estimated to be NT$ 18.72 million with 11.22 million calls.
We also send SMS messages to assist the government in sending out information on 
Chinese New Year Transportation, enterovirus, government-issued coupons, and etc. In 
2008, we have sent a total of 11.43 million public SMS messages.
Anti-Fraud Dedicated Line 
165 Anti-Fraud Dedicated Line
Our customer service center initially takes all calls through the 165 anti-fraud dedicated line and deals with any queries about telephone fraud, but if the caller 
wishes to report a crime the call is immediately transferred to the police.
In relation to any fraudulent number reported through the 165 hotline, we  use the network management system of the signal network to make call tracking and filter the related calls. Designated personnel manually goes through the warning reports 
and confirms that the reported number has been diverted without authorization. 
We will cancel the call divert and notify the account user.
Offer Customers Call Filtering Service: We provide our customers with the call filtering service. Customers may activate the function to reject any private number calls.
Mobile Phone Service (caller black list): customers may create their own black 
list (up to 30 sets of telephone numbers) through the Internet and activate the 
black list or divert any private number calls to the voicemail system.Fixed Line Telephone (call filtering service): filters calls according to the black list created by the client. The function may be used to filter private number calls and 
international calls. The account user may reject any private call numbers.
Secure Lock Service for the Fixed Line Call-Divert Option: when a local call customer sets up the call-divert option on the telephone, he/she is required to get the password authenticated. The password verification mechanism may effectively avoid the telephone number being unlawfully diverted by fraudsters.
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
65Anti-Fraud Measures 
To avoid fraudsters from installing intercepting or eavesdropping devices in our outdoor cross connecting cabinets or cabinets installed inside buildings, we have 
completed the construction of a cabinet surveillance system in all regions. Besides 
enhancing the surveillance function and the structure of the cabinets, we have affixed anti-eavesdropping posters on the bulletin boards of buildings, the building administration office, on the cabinets or at other visible places in accordance with the NCC requirements 
to remind the building occupants to be highly alert of and join efforts to prevent any act 
of fraud and eavesdropping.
Complete the Construction of the Emergency Rescue and the 
Special Charitable Number Service System
In line with the project of the National Fire Agency, Ministry of Interior, to improve the 
119 emergency reporting network, we have restructured the 119 reporting network and finished constructing the related network equipment platform. 
The 1999 Citizen Hotline provides a one-contact service system for government 
information and enquiry services to callers. We have assisted the Taipei Municipal and County Governments to complete constructing the telecommunications and information system required by the 1999 Call Center to ensure that enquiries or 
complaints be handled in a timely manner.
In line with the project of the Council for Economic Development, Executive Yuan to set up a 24-hour consultation services center for government-issued consumption vouchers, we have devoted a massive amount of manpower resources and supplies to complete constructing the network platform (0800-883-600 and 02-412-3600) for 
the Consumption Voucher Contact Center.
Sea Rescue Communication Service
Our coastal radio stations, in coordination with the national policies as well as rules 
of the international organizations, are assigned by the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to deploy a communications service called “Global Maritime Distress 
and Safety System (GMDSS).” The service provides local and foreign vessels in our sea 
regions with free information on communications with the land in case of emergencies, navigation safety, rescue plan, and international news. The service is also responsible for the communication work in case of any dangers or accidents on the sea. The Ministry 
of Transportation and Communications allocated a NT$ 35 million subsidy grant for 
this service. Our actual business expenditure was approximately NT$ 100.46 million. In 2008, 122 emergency radio transmissions were deployed. Out of 122 emergency radio transmissions deployed, there were 35 shipwrecks in particular and 229 people were rescued. There were also 79,502 DSC safety calls and 172,930 times of navigation 
warning telex (NAVTEX) were issued. 
You can call “1999” from your cell phone at any 
place in Taipei to be connected to the Citizen 
Hotline of the Taipei Municipal Government.
 COSPAS-SARSAT System
http://www.cospas-sarsat.orgOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
66Appendix
Charitable Activities
Olympic Broadcast-Outdoor TV
We obtained the exclusive right to broadcast the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. We 
broadcasted the Olympic through MOD (TV), hiChannel (network) and emome (cell phone) and leverage on the various advantages of IPTV to offer customers high-
resolution services (MOD), the most comprehensive coverage (hiChannel) and the 
convenience of viewing the games at any time (emome). Comparing to services provided by traditional wireless and cable broadcasting providers, our synchronized Olympic Games broadcasting services gave local viewers an entirely new viewing 
experience, which also received a high level of recognition from the governmental 
organizations, the academic fields and the general public.
During the period of the Olympic Games, free Olympic programs offered to our customers 
are in excess of NT$ 40 million. To help our citizens cheer for the Chinese- Taipei team, 
we joined efforts with the various county/municipal governments and organizations to 
host 110 rounds of the “Olympic Broadcast, Outdoor TV Party” in 34 locations. We endeavored to offer the baseball fans a higher level of visual experience and created the awesome feelings as if they were in a live show through our live broadcasting (MOD) 
and high-resolution images. The launch of the Olympic parties received overwhelming 
responses from citizens and every party was packed. We estimated total of 300,000 people were cheering for the Chinese-Taipei team in a single outdoor event across Taiwan, creating an amazing record of joining together the largest crowd, spread across the most number of locations with the highest amounts of cash rewards.
We co-organized with the Taipei Municipal Government for the “Olympic 
Chinese-Taipei Baseball Game Broadcast-Outdoor TV”, and attracted 
thousands of fans to cheer for the Chinese-Taipei team on site.
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
67Warmup for The Deaflymics
The 21 summer Deaflympics will be convened in Taipei on September 5, 2009. Before 
this, we have offered telecommunication related services including local call, FTTB ADSL and HilinkVPN, server collocation, multimedia messaging system, 3G number and SIM 
cards, Ideal Card and stored value cards to the Taipei Organising Committee of the 21
st 
Summer Deaflympics in the planning of the “World Deaf Swimming Championships” and 
“Invitational Games for the Deaf, Taipei”. The sponsorship was about NT$ 4 million. We have experienced to provide the services for hearing impaired by participating above 
activities so that we could brain storm and plan the completed services for 2009 
Deaflympics. Our acts fully demonstrate our support for sports events and the determination to care for the society.
Sichuan Earthquake Relief
In order to show our concern for the Sichuan Earthquake, we donated 100 Inmarsat Satellite Phones for people in the disaster zones to make external contacts. We offered 20 voice phones with data modem and 80 voice-only phones. Every phone was sent 
with two prepaid cards offering 850 minutes of free talking time. The donations were 
delivered by the China Telecom and the China Charity Association to the Chengdu Command Center, which then passed on the donations to the disaster zones. During the period from May 12, the day of the Earthquake, to late May, calls to Sichuan from any home 
phone using the “019” IDD service were charged at the discounted rate of only NT$ 
1 per minute. The total amount of discount was credited against the balance of the subscriber’s phone bill. This special offer was specifically for our clients in Taiwan to extend their concerns to their relatives in the Sichuan disaster zones. Our employees also initiated a fundraising event to raise a cash donation of NT$ 17.67 million in total, 
which is the act to show the humanitarian concern from the Corporation and employees.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
68Appendix
The ADOC 2.0 Project
The development of core techniques of over 10 intelligent technology by our telecom-
munication laboratories is near maturity. The objective of these technological developments is to fulfill our CSR and assist the disabled people. Besides the following technology 
including the intelligent document analytical system, optical character recognition, 
intelligent computer text-to-speech synthesis, intelligent Mandarin speech recognition, listen to text messages, the phonebook for answered/missed calls and the 616 fast voicemail dial function, we have been devoted to developing an Internet access 
interface for the disabled people in 2008. We have completed the following:
Automatic recognition by a single key, pure traditional Chinese text, pure 
simple Chinese text or pure English characters and numerical.The TTS software system that supports multiple languages.The selection of male or female voice to allow system output of the body contents 
and messages using different voices.
Customers can listen to SMS messages using a smart phone or choose a male or female voice for the voicemail system.The Guide Mouse system (Windows 2000, XP, Vista).
The website of the telecommunication laboratory is modified to be user friendly to 
disabled users. They can browse or listen to the page contents. The website is rated as an A
+ Accessible Web.
We have donated the above innovation to the Tamkang University’s resource center for the visually impaired students for teaching purposes. In 2008, the total number of 
people that benefited from our innovation was as follows:  
Computer training for the visually impaired: 671 person-times.
Learning aid for the visually impaired: 842 person-times.Accessible website and Chinese e-Library for the visually impaired: 1,936 person-times.
Besides the development of an exclusive information system, we have co-organized ICT experience camps with charities for the handicapped people to reduce the distance between normal and visually impaired people. We hope to create new possibilities and opportunities for the disabled people by giving them warmth and love through our volunteer events.
The convenience of technology shall be 
accessible to all. As such, we develop the 
Guide Mouse System to enable visually 
impaired users to use computers freely.
We organized the event “Explore the Secrets 
of Communication-Cheng Ching Lake Internet 
Pals Club”. Our volunteers lead the visually 
impaired friends to experience the culture 
and people in southern Taiwan. The event 
also gave us the opportunity to demonstrate 
the results of applying voice techniques in 
accessible technology.
Key Action 
ItemsOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackAppendixEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementSocial Contribution
69In the 2003 annual meeting of APEC, Taiwan proposed the APEC Digital Opportunity 
Center with the mission of narrowing the digital gap. The initiative was put in action in August 2004 to set up digital opportunity centers in 7 member nations including 
Vietnam, Chile etc. The project is built upon the Taiwan’s advantages in information 
technology and industrial experience. It is project that is affirmed by the APEC each year, which helps to raise Taiwan’s international reputation significantly.
In the 2007 APEC meeting in Sydney, Australia, Mr. Stan Shih, Taiwan’s representative 
for the ADOC 2.0 project, which differed from the Phase-1 project in that the project now 
also relied on private-sector funding instead of just on governmental funding. Private-sector and non-governmental organizations of the APEC member nations were invited to participate in the project to establish a mutual cooperative platform.
On August 1, 2008, we have signed the “Letter of Intent for Participation in the ADOC 
2.0 Project” and officially became one of the private-sector initiator of the ADOC 2.0 
project. To carry out the related ADOC 2.0 sponsorship programs in line with our spirit to narrow the digital gap and create digital opportunities, we have joined efforts with the Tamkang University Resource Center for the Visually Impaired Students and the 
customer service center of our telecommunication laboratories to promote the “ICT 
Assisted Long-distance Working By the Visually Impaired” project to create more employment opportunities for the visually impaired people in Taiwan. Our experience in this project will enable us to set up a model. In future, we expect to offer the related mechanisms and interfaces to required APEC economies to show our contribution to the ADOC 2.0 
project.
Mr. Lee Yen-Song, Vice President of Chunghwa Telecom (left), Mr. Huang 
Shao-Hua, CEO of the Private-Sector Office, ADOC 2.0 and Chang, Chia-Yi, 
Principal (center) of Tamkang University jointly hosted the inauguration 
ceremony for the “ADOC 2.0 Digital Opportunity Center” and announced 
the official start of the distance-working dream for the visually impaired. The ADOC 2.0 Project
http://www.apecdoc.org70Environmental Sustainability 
Management
Chunghwa Telecom’s vision for “environmental sustainability management” 
is to “mitigate environmental impacts”. We hope to reduce environmental impacts through establishing the environmental management system, responding to climate change and developing green technology.
Environmental Sustainability Management SystemCarbon Management Strategic Map
Greenhouse Gas InventoryContinuous Mitigation of Environmental Impact
Employee Environmental Initiatives
Energy Efficient and Reduced-Carbon Services
Mitigation of
Environmental
Impact
Development
of Green
TechnologyResponse 
to Climate
ChangeEnvironmental 
Establishment 
Management
System
Management
Approach
Key Issues
Major
Responses
Key Action 
ItemsOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
71Statistics on the Number of Times Using
Environmental-friendly Bicycles andWaste  Recycling Statistics
Water and Electricity Cost Management
Statistics on the Recycling of
Water Resources
Information Management of
Greenhouse Gas Emission
Assessment and Expert Management
System of Power Consumption EfficiencyLighting Facility ManagementEnvironmental Innovation and
Energy Conservation Management
Documentation of Tree Inventory and 
Corporate ForestFunctions of Environmental
Sustainability Management SystemEnvironmental Sustainability Management System
In 2007, Chunghwa Telecom began to establish an environmental database, the “environmental 
sustainability management system” for all departments to store, retrieve and control data on environmental performance. This system allows all departments to effectively compile 
and manage all information related to the environment. After it was put on trial for one 
year, in 2008, the system was modified with better and new functions including analysis, statistics and departmental comparison. Each department can draw up more specific and quantitative objectives of environmental improvement to improve job efficiency.
The environmental sustainability group of Chunghwa Telecom’s CSR committee conducted 
propaganda tours in 2008 to conduct training and lecturers on the functions and methods of using this system in all departments and offices of the Corporation. All employees were able to understand the correct way of using the system, and through communication and interactions with the users, we obtained different opinions and comments for continuous 
modification and correction of this system.
Energy Consumption
We use a significant amount of power and chemical fuel in the process of providing 
telecommunication services including data communication, corporate and engineering vehicles, furnace, switching offices and air-conditioning.  Besides adopting systematic 
data management, we have taken acts to improve the efficiency of power consumption 
to reduce greenhouse gas emission.
Under the dual strategies of information control and energy conservation measures, we have 
managed to cut down the consumption of energy and water as well as the amount of waste 
disposal in 2008 as compared with those in 2007, except that electricity consumption was 
slightly higher in 2008 as we have acquired new facilities. The figure below illustrates the Corporation’s achievements in managing electricity consumption, greenhouse gas emission, total energy consumption and the management of water resources and waste disposal.
Management
ApproachOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
72Appendix
Energy-Consumption Analysis
Electricity
1,200.9
20051,304.81,418.03 1,463.6
2006 2007 2008128.5 141.4131.4Electricity
Electricity Consumption (MWh)
Eco-Efficiency Ratio
152.7
777,123
2005850,491930,439 944,900
2006 2007 20080.190.22 0.2Greenhouse Gases (GHG)
Greenhouse Gas Emissions(t-CO2e)
Eco-Efficiency Ratio
0.24
4,597,847
20054,970,8585,112,6365,068,123
2006 2007 20080.037
0.036Energy Consumption (Electricity + Fuel)
Energy Consumption(GJ)
Eco-Efficiency Ratio
0.04
0.037
2,603
20052,514 2,431 2,378
2006 2007 200875.576.6Water Consumption
Water Consumption(1,000m3)
Eco-Efficiency Ratio
70.473.3 2005 2006 2007 2008
 System System Verified  System
 Value*4 Value*4 Value*3 Value*4  
Electricity Consumption (MWh) 1200.9 1304.8 1418.02*2 1453.6
Eco-Efficiency Ratio1 152.7 141.4 131.4 128.5
*1: Eco-Efficiency Ratio = Operating income for the current fiscal year / category. Chunghwa Telecom’s
 operating income for 2008 was NT$ 186,780.65 million.
*2: As shown in the 2007 CSR Report, electricity consumption in 2007 was 1,364.1 (MWh); This figure
 was estimated from the total amount of electricity costs. The total level of electricity consumption
 for 2007 was revised to 1,418.0 (MWh) after an inventory, and therefore,  the eco-efficiency ratio was
 revised to 131.4.
*3: Verified Value: Verified Value: the total level of power usage of Chunghwa Telecom’s equipment
 with “Numbered Electricity Meter & Un-numbered Electricity Meter”, which was assured by a third party.
*4: System Value: the total level of power usage of Chunghwa Telecom’s equipment with “Numbered 
 Electricity Meter”. In our annual exercise of greenhouse gas inventory, we will compile the power 
 usage level of the equipment with “Un-numbered Electricity Meter” to modify the total level of power
 usage for the previous year.
Management
Approach
Waste
 2005 2006 2007 2008
Waste Production (t) - - 10,295 7,917
Eco-Efficiency Ratio - - 18.1 23.6Water Consumption
 2005 2006 2007 2008
Water Consumption (1,000m3) 2,603.8 2,515.4 2,431.0 2,378.0
Eco-Efficiency Ratio 70.4   73.3  76.6  75.5Energy Consumption (Electricity + Fuel)
 2005 2006 2007 2008
Energy Consumption*6 (GJ) 4,597,847 4,970,858 5,112,636 5,068,123
Eco-Efficiency Ratio 0.04  0.037 0.036  0.037
*6: Total energy consumption (GJ) calorific value = total electricity consumption (GJ) calorific value +
 total fuel consumption (GJ) calorific value.Greenhouse Gases (GHG)
 2005 2006 2007 2008*5
 System System Verified  System
 Value Value Value Value
Emissions (t-CO2e) 777,123.7 850,491.6 930,439.94 944,900
Eco-Efficiency Ratio 0.24 0.22 0.2 0.19
*5: The total level of greenhouse gas emissions in 2008 is the value measured by the “environmental
 sustainability management system” that will be confirmed in 2009.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
73Carbon Management Strategic Map
The Taiwanese government, consumers and the general public are beginning to pay serious 
attention to the issue of “energy conservation and carbon reduction”. One can see that the industrial structure will gradually reshape and we shall expect development of low 
carbon industries. As a telecommunication service provider, we are in a place to support 
other industries including improving their energy efficiency, reducing the amount of raw materials and supplies, or cutting down energy consumption and carbon with alternative methods (such as video conferencing and the intelligent energy saving system).
By elaborating on such feature, the Company will help other industries achieve the goal of energy 
conservation and carbon reduction. On this issue, we are dedicated to improving eco-efficiency and cutting down the environmental footprints created in the process of our operations. In 2008, we have taken more constructive actions in hope of allowing consumers to enjoy more environmental friendly and high energy-efficient telecommunication services.
We formally incorporated the issues of energy conservation, carbon reduction and environmental 
protection into our business plan in 2008, and drew up the “Chunghwa Telecom Carbon Management Strategic Map” based on the Corporation’s current situation to be used as the basis for our future actions. Internally, we have sought enhancement of our fundamental 
capabilities through improved energy efficiency, employee environmental initiatives, and 
development of low carbon products. Externally, we communicated with our suppliers to carry out green supply chain management and mobile phone recycling. We endeavored to build up a network of reduced wastes and low carbon within the scope of our business operation. 
Step-by-step introduction of solar and wind 
power generators to reduce the level of 
greenhouse gas emissions.
Chunghwa Telecom Carbon
Management
Internal
DimensionExternal
DimensionEstablishment of the Information
System
Environmental sustainability management
Carbon
Management
Strategies
Greenhouse
Gas Emission
InventoryRenewable
Energy
Photovoltaic
Water HeaterCommunication
with Supply
Chain
Mobile
 Phone
RecyclingProduct
Development
Green Products
Energy-Saving
Services
Working from
HomeEmployee
Environmental
Initiatives
Recycling for Reuse
Office Environmental
Protection
Tree Planting in
Science Park
Changes to Office
Working StyleImprovement
of Energy
Efficiency
Facility Energy
Conservation
Building Energy
Conservation
Facility
Replacement
Green Switching 
OfficeChunghwa Telecom Carbon Management Strategic Map
Management
ApproachOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
74Appendix
2007 CSR Report
Our Commitment to EnvironmentalSustainability:
“We are fully aware of the importance of 
having clear goals for the pursuit of energy 
conservation and carbon reduction. Carbon 
inventory is the first step for further pursuit of 
“carbon management”. We have made a clear 
commitment to environmental sustainability. In 
2008, we completed the groundwork for carbon 
inventory. Precise figures on CO2 emissions 
will help us progress to the next level of carrying 
out our carbon management strategies.”Greenhouse Gas Inventory
A corporation’s carbon management capabilities are acquired through long-term 
accumulation of experience. In order to increase the efficiency of energy saving management practices and set quantitative targets, in 2008, we were the first in the industry 
to implement the GHG Inventory project and became the first telecommunication 
services provider in Taiwan to complete the inventory of greenhouse gas emissions.
We adopted the Greenhouse gas protocol (GHG Protocol) developed by the World 
Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD) to calculate the Corporation’s overall level greenhouse gas emissions. We 
established a complete register of GHG emissions, which will serve as the basis for the Corporation’s future endeavors in reduction of greenhouse gas emission. 
We took year 2007 as our base year. The “Environmental Sustainability Development 
Working Group” under our “CSR Committee” formed a “GHG Inventory Promotion Group” 
in a project-oriented way together with all relevant departments to promote and implement 
GHG inventory. Missions of the GHG Inventory Promotion Group are as follows: 
Inventory and management of greenhouse gasesBe informed of GHG emission by the company
Look for feasible solutions to reduce GHG emission
Implement GHG emission projectsPromote ecological strategies and execute environmental sustainability development
Organization Chart of Chunghwa Telecom’s GHG Inventory Promotion Team
Key Issues
International Business
 GroupEnterprise Business GroupTelecom Laboratories
Northern Taiwan Business Group
(12 Operation Offices)Southern Taiwan Business Group 
(11 Operation Offices)Mobile Business Group
(3 Operation Offices)
GHG Inventory CoverageTelecom Training Institute
(2 Training Institutes)
GHG Inventory Execution Department
Administration & Asset Management DivisionData Communication
Business GroupGHG Inventory Promotion Team 
Project Leader & Vice PresidentPerson in Charge CSR CommitteeOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
75The Scope of Inventory
The scope of our inventory exercise is rather extensive in that it covered a total 37 
business units, over 1,800 operation offices and 20,000 electricity meter numbers including the corporate headquarter, branches, offices and their corresponding operation 
offices, telecommunication laboratories and telecommunication training institutes. We 
also conducted 3 training sessions in Taipei, Taichung and Kaohsiung to ensure that all employees understand the objectives and contents of the inventory. We estimated that a total of 300 people including those assisting with the exercise were involved in the 
inventory process.
Data Verification
We engaged the SGS Taiwan to verify the statistics we obtained on greenhouse gas 
emissions to ensure its credibility. In accordance with the ISO 14064-1 standards and stringent verification procedures (paper and on-site evidence investigations) of the SGS, 
we were successfully certified to the ISO 14064-1 standards after over 30 days of verification.
Analysis of Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Upon undertaking the inventory and verification procedures, we hereby revise  the total 
level of greenhouse gas emissions by the Corporation for 2007 to 930,439.94 t-CO2e 
in this CSR Report; The figure is higher than the estimate published in the 2007 CSR Report.
In the verification process undertaken in 2008, we installed an inventory computation 
tool in the system to allow employees to obtain statistics on greenhouse gas emission during the process of managing power consumption information. The overall goal is to improve the management of system efficiency. According to system measurements, 
the total level of greenhouse gas emissions for 2008 was 944,900 t-CO
2e (the data will 
be verified in August 2009). Upon close examination, the reason of the rise was attributed 
to the introduction of second-generation telecommunication network facilities in line 
with business growth, thus causing a slight increase in power consumption. 
Sources of greenhouse gas emission are from indirect emissions generated by externally 
purchased electricity (Category 2), which made up about 97.08% of the total emission level. Direct emissions (Category 1) are from fuel consumption for the need of our daily 
business operations (eg. gasoline, diesel fuel), gas dissipation from fire extinguishers 
and air conditioners, and methane dissipation from septic tanks, representing 2.92% of the total emission level. 
SGS ISO 14064-1 verification statement Good Sound preparation to meet verification 
requirements. 
Education and training that involved the most 
number of people.
Percentage of Each Emission Category
Category 1 Emission
Category 2 Emission2.92% 97.08%Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
76Appendix
We investigated greenhouse gas emissions produced by outsourced activities,  classified 
as Category 3, including employee commute, outsourced waste disposal, outsourced coffee bar, duty jobs, outsourced restaurants, etc. In consideration of internal communication 
and the predicted user purposes of future emission inventory, we only listed the sources 
of greenhouse gas emissions in Category 3 without incorporating this category into the business margin and calculation of the inventory. This part of estimation and calculation work will begin in 2009 after we further understand our employee commute and business 
travels.
Analysis on the inventory of greenhouse gas emissions in 2007 showed that CO
2 and 
methane (CH4) occupy 99.33% and 0.24% of the total emissions respectively.
We understand that climate change may result in the risks of natural disasters, and 
if the rise of temperature caused by global warming persists, the air conditioners in 
telecommunication switching offices will require more energy, and that will largely 
increase our service cost and greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, after the inventory of greenhouse gases in 2007 was completed, we immediately drew up relevant energy conservation plans, which include the five-year project of gasoline and vehicle reduction, 
and the five-year projects of energy conservation and carbon reduction in telecommunication 
switching offices and office buildings. Action plans were also drawn up to improve energy efficiency of telecommunication switching offices, office buildings and vehicle control in the goal to systematically and gradually lower various types of energy conservation with middle-term and long-term plans.
Internet is the most important common platform for modern industrial development. 
Taiwan is not one of the nations listed in Appendixes 1 and 2 of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and is not subject to the restriction of national carbon reduction. Taiwan government has not yet set up specific goals of carbon reduction 
for each type of industry. We however take the initiative in reducing carbon production 
by establishing the goal to “restore greenhouse gas emissions to the level of 2008 in 2013”. We will also elaborate ICT technical experience and service capabilities by assisting industry in establishing information system and database, developing application services and techniques, strengthening the collaboration with emerging industrial partners, and 
elaborating the integrated effect of the industry. We expect the company to serve as a 
common platform for the development of emerging industries, and provide crucial support to the development and growth of future low-carbon industries. The Emissions of 6 Greenhouse Gases 
in 2007
Key Issues
Greenhouse Emission Percentage
Gases (t-CO2e) of the Total
  Emissions
  (%)
CO2 924,258.25 99.33
CH4 2,187.65 0.24
N2O 580.26 0.06
HFCs 3,403.82 0.37
PFCs 5.52 0
SF6 4.44 0
Total 930,439.94 100Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
77Continuous Mitigation of Environmental Impact
We have been eagerly promoting technological innovation, behavioral changes and 
better control as well as seeking possible solutions in reducing energy consumption and continuous mitigation of environmental impact in terms of architecture, electricity, 
telecommunication facilities, air conditioning, traveling and shipping and recycling.
Energy Conservation in Office Buildings
Based on our computation, a possible 20% saving on energy consumption may be 
achieved through improving the energy saving features of power supply, lighting, air-conditioning and office equipments. We formulated the “5-Year Office Building Energy 
Conservation & Carbon Reduction Plan” to promote power management in office buildings 
as follows:
Inventory on Building Usage: Our buildings include office blocks, telecommunication 
switching offices and composite buildings. Before embarking on any improvement, we 
took an inventory of the energy costing equipment used or installed in the various types 
of buildings and record the power consumption status in detail.Intelligent Energy Network (iEN): Upon analysis, in 2008, we selected office buildings housing the most number people and delivered more significant results in relation to energy saving for installation of the iEN equipment to monitor the level of energy 
consumption.
Energy-Saving Diagnosis: We formed the “ Energy Conservation Taskforce” in each business unit and instituted the inter-departmental “Energy Saving Diagnosis” groups to offer diagnosis and recommendations for improvement on power consumption, air-
conditioning, lighting system and general business affairs. Meanwhile, we also conduct 
analysis on power consumption management and efficiency of the respective buildings.System Record: We document our energy-saving measures in the “Energy Conservation and Innovation” system, which is a sub-system of the environmental sustainability system that allows information and experience sharing across the board.
Benefits Evaluation: To compare the efficiency of energy consumption before and after 
the improvement, we offer customized power consumption control reports generated by the environmental sustainability management system to enable our various departments can compare and control the power consumption by specific buildings.
Energy-Saving Benefits
As for office buildings installed with iEN facilities, using electronic ballasts and T5 and high-efficiency lamps can save 12% of building electricity consumption each year. The iEN system for control of air conditioners and other electricity-consuming facilities can 
save about 5% electricity. These measures thus can approximately save 17% electricity 
of each office building each year.
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
78Appendix
Saving Energy in Switching Offices
Telecommunication switching offices the vital facilities for telecommunication service 
providers. Energy consumption by switching offices is primarily attributed to telecommunication equipments and the air-conditioning system. We aim to cut down 
electricity consumption by our switching offices to carry our energy saving initiatives.
Ever since 2007, we have embarked on an overall energy saving plan with respect to our 
switching offices, which was carried out from 3 respective dimensions, the up, middle and down streams.  Moreover, we further launched the “5-Year Switching Office Energy 
Saving Plan” in hope of more effectively cutting down electricity consumption by switching 
offices.
Promotion of Green Buildings
A building from construction, repair and maintenance, use to dismantling can cost a Note able amount of energy as well as CO
2 emission. In consideration of this aspect, 
we took promotion of green buildings as an important measure, based on which, we could propagate the ideas of eco-system, energy conservation, waste reduction and 
health.
We launched the “green building action plan” in 2008 that any new buildings with 
construction cost above NT$ 50 million shall meet the regulations stipulated in the “Guidelines for promotion and use of green house label for public buildings and candidate 
green building certificate” promulgated by the Ministry of the Interior. It was in the 
hope of providing our employees and consumers a healthy, comfortable and safe environment while causing only minimum impact on the environment.
Application of Renewable Energy
The most advantage of renewable energy is the nonstop and repeated use of energy without producing greenhouse gas emissions and other air pollutants. Good use of renewable energy will give us a better environment.
With the efforts of our branch offices in North and South Taiwan, and oversea and 
mobile branch offices, 16 sets of “solar power regenerator” with a total of 71.8kWp capacity were established. At our training centers and guild halls, 66 sets of hot-water heaters covering an effective area of 252.12 m
2 were installed in 2008 which saved 
about 291,900Wh electricity and NT$ 729,700 electricity cost. This showed the commitment of our guild halls to “care about our environment from the aspect of a telecommunication 
industry”.We installed photovoltaic panelplates at 
appropriate locations to save the cost of 
electricity.
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
79Reduction of In-Use Vehicles and Gasoline Consumption
In terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from in-use vehicles, we introduced the 
project to cut down the number of in-use cars and motorcycles in 2007, in addition to the education and training for changing drivers’ driving habit to lower gasoline consumption. 
By 2008, we cut down the use of 1,012 cars and 549 motorcycles.
After examining and gathering statistics on the actual situation, we modified the “5- Year 
Project of Gasoline and Vehicle Reduction” and “5-Year Project of Vehicle Replacement” in early 2008, and planed to cut down 625 cars and 248 motorcycles in 5 years of time.
Chunghwa Telecom 5-Year Project of Gasoline and Vehicle Reduction
Green Procurement
We actively promoted green consumption action in coordination with the policy of the Environmental Protection Administration, “daily life environmental protection and consumption with labels”. We purchased products with environmental protection labels, 
and signed the “consent form of green procurement for private industries and organizations” 
with the Department of Environmental Protection of the Taipei City Government. Green procurement seminars were also held for our employees to promote the concept of green procurement.
The price of our green procurement in 2008 was NT$ 201 million; if classified according to 
city and county, the procurement in Taipei was worth more than NT$ 100 million and that in Kaohsiung exceeded NT$ 30 million. We fulfilled our commitment to environmental sustainability and contributed to the economic development of local cities and counties. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total
Cars 166 138 145 141 35 625
Motorcycles 94 46 44 44 20 248
Note : as set in the Chunghwa Telecom CSR Report 2007, the company aimed to cut down 495 and 
205 cars and motorcycles respectively; these numbers were modified to 324 and 214 respectively in early 2008.
 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total
Cars 1,126 792 631 367 302 3,218
Motorcycles 279 290 263 164 229 1,225Chunghwa Telecom 5-Year Project of Vehicle Replacement
Note : as described in the Chunghwa CSR Report 2007, the company aimed to replace 333 motorcycles, 
which was then modified to 60 in early 2008.
Our endeavors were recognized by the 
Department of Environmental Protection of 
the Taipei City Government. The Chunghwa 
Telecom headquarters, the Southern Taiwan 
Business Group and Mobile Business Group 
were also awarded the prize of “Excellent 
Green Procurement Industry” by the 
Environmental Protection Administration.
324
214396
Cars Motorcycles236Outcomes of Vehicle Reduction in 2008
Unit: Car
Goal
Outcomes
1,160
60
Cars Motorcycles999
57Outcomes of Vehicle Replacement in 2008
Unit: Car
Goal
OutcomesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
80Appendix
Waste Recycling
A majority of our industrial waste is mixed hardware, which belongs to recyclable 
resources. We classified the waste into R, D and E three types in accordance with waste disposal related laws and regulations to be recycled by qualified contracted 
companies.
R: waste that should be recycled or reused as promulgated.
D: general waste cables and mixed hardware.E: oil-containing waste cables.
Total Amount of Recycled Waste in 2008
Amount of Recycled Mixed Hardware
 Plastic Mobile Phones Waste Computers  Waste Light Tubes  Aluminum Cans
 (Kg) (Unit) (Unit) (Unit) (Kg)
 9,565 609 3,061 26,101 4,650
Waste Batteries   Waste Paper  Paper Reduction   Toner Cartridges
 (Kg) (Kg) (Sheet) (Unit)
 10,465 361,161 4,579,273 4,807 Recovery Type  2008
ATU-R (uni)  380,213
VTU-R (uni)  57,735
MOD-ST (uni)  129,084Number of Recycled from Internet Customers
We set up recycling bins in offices and encouraged employees to classify and recycle 
office and living waste, and register recycling results into the “environmental sustainability management system” for tracing.
Outcomes of Office and Living Waste Recycling in 2008After the wires were uninstalled, we conducted 
a thorough check on the parts that were still 
good for re-use to cut down the level of resource 
wastage while achieving cost saving for the 
company.
Note : batteries should only be discarded if they are no longer usable after five years of use. The number of 
recycled batteries is associated with the amount of construction that year, and does not serve as an indicator of achievements. Due to different capacities, the number of batteries cannot be converted to weight. The weight of recycled batteries in 2007 was 1,028 metric tons, and that in 2008 was 582 metric tons. Kind 2007 2008
Battery (uni)  3,315 3,006
General Cables (Metric Ton) 5,018 3,219
Waste Hardware (Metric Ton) 1,137 875
Jelly Filled Cables (Metric Ton) 825 817
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
81Water Recycling
We implemented water-saving measures in 2008 and launched rainwater and living waste recycling programs. Recycled water was used in watering trees and 
cleaning outdoor areas and sidewalks. The recycling data were registered into 
the environmental sustainability management system for analysis, control and evaluation by all departments. The water-saving measures include: 
A spraying apparatus was installed to each tap to reduce water flow.
Two-stage flushing systems were installed to some female toilets to lower flushing 
water. 
Rainwater and living wastewater recycling programs. (The volume of rainwater 
and shower water recycled for 2008 was 5,078,984 liters and 11,940 liters, 
respectively. On the other hand, the actual volume of RO Water recycled was 
1,238,608 liters.
Mobile Phone Recycling
If waste mobile phones are recycled and processed, one can prevent the hazardous substances inside mobile phones from contaminating the environment during waste 
burning and burying processes. The usable substances in mobile phones can also be 
recycled to reduce resource and energy consumptions.
In past few years, mobile telecommunication technology advances rapidly, and more 
and more innovative products are sold in market. This encourages consumers to purchase 
new mobile phones. For convenient recycling of waste mobile telecommunication 
products, we signed the “memorandum for collaboration on recycling waste mobile telecommunication products” with the Environmental Protection Administration of the Executive Yuan on December 30, 2008. The recycling of mobile phones was launched at our 319 service centers and 210 retailers of the Senao International Co., Ltd.
We hope to urge the public to pay attention to the recycling and reuse of technology 
products through the promotion of mobile phone recycling. This can avoid not only the distribution of waste telecommunication products to developing countries, but also damage and contamination to local environment and resident’s health.
The mobile phone recycling bins 
made of recycled papers symbolizes 
how determined we are to recycle 
and reuse resources.
Waste Water
CollectorClean Water
Collector
Water
CleanerMotorShower Water Recycling SystemOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
82Appendix
Employee Environmental Initiatives
Employee participation is vital for promotion of environmental conservation. We 
encourage our employees to try their best to take action in environmental and energy conservation.
In order to allow the employees to fully understand the Corporation’s commitments to 
and actions in environmental conservation, we have formulated the “Code of Environmental Friendly Living and Energy Saving Behaviors” in 2007. to allow employees to realize environmental conservation and energy saving concepts in daily life.
Starting from 2008, we have been promoting employee environmental initiatives. The 
goal is to enable every employee to make his/her part of the contribution to preserving our natural environment through changing the ways they live or working habits.
Investigation of Employee Commuting
We have over 24,000 employees all over Taiwan. We also have perceived troubles brought to human beings by a large amount of commutes, as long commute time wastes natural resources, worsens environment pollutions and wastes time. If we 
could reduce GHG emissions due to daily commutes for a day, we can then reduce 
101 tons of CO
2 emission, thereby mitigating the adverse effects on the Earth and the 
environments.
In order to understand GHG emissions generated during commute hours and their 
willingness in participating low carbon commute means, we have deployed the first 
“Employee Commute Questionnaire” on International Car Free day in 2008. Most employees participated enthusiastically and 32% participated in online questionnaire.
The questionnaire result shows that:
Primary means of commute are motorcycle and car, which are adopted by 45.4% 
and 26.52% of the employees respectively, showing that most employees rely highly on motorcycle and car.Approximately 80% of the employees spend 40 minutes on commuting.As for GHG emissions during commutes, every employee, on average, produces 
4.11 kg CO
2 everyday (estimated using the GHG calculator provided by Environmental 
Quality Protection Foundation).
Even though commute conditions may not be improved immediately, employees 
are still willing to use low carbon commute means for three days every week. 
Primary low carbon commute means are bicycle and public transportation, which are adopted by 35.48% and 25.80% of the employees respectively. Time spent on low carbon commute means is slightly increased but employees are 
still willing to adopt a more environment-friendly commute means.Bike
Public
Transportation
Carpooling
Walking
Others45.56%
33.15%
9.38%
9.35%
2.55%What Kind of Low Carbon Commute 
Means Would You Like to Use?
Major
Responses
One-Way Commute Time Comparison
Between 21~30 Minutes
Between 11~20 MinutesLess than 10 Minutes
More than 51 Minutes
Between 41~50 MinutesBetween 31~40 Minutes14.24%9.40%8.56%
29.09%14.17%
24.53%45.40% Motorbike
Car
(Without carpooling)
Bus
Walking
Bike
MRT
Car (Carpooling)
Train
Coach
HSR26.52%
17.97%
15.90%
15.13%
13.85%
10.71%
3.98%
0.76%
0.13%% of Commute Means
(Multiple Selections)
Note: Multiple choices are allowed, thus the percentage 
total does not equal to 100%.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
83
Assessment on Energy-Saving Achievements
The energy-saving promotion group was established not only at the headquarters but 
also each branch office and business operation centers. The chief of each unit assigned energy-saving management staff to draw up goals and plans of energy conservation 
each year, and conduct various energy-saving measures. 
After certain achievements were obtained by the energy-saving measures, we conducted 
the “internal assessment of energy saving” in 2008; the headquarters sent a group of experts to assess the energy saving at each branch office and business operation center. 
We expected them to view and learn from each other by examining energy-saving results 
so as to encourage the growth of professional technology and innovative development.We encouraged creative energy-saving 
plans, for instance, an orchid garden on the 
rooftop can help lower indoor temperature 
and provide a form of recreation to our employees.
We understand that energy is limited. By 
allowing all institutions to view and learn 
from each other about energy saving, we 
hope our employees can keep in mind the 
idea of energy saving.
Competition of Energy Conservation in Telecommunication 
Switching Offices and Offices
We encouraged our employees to adopt the attitude and habit to save energy. We 
therefore held the “competition of energy conservation in offices” in September 2008.  By participating in this activity, our energy-saving measures can be well practiced, and 
our employees can share their energy-saving experience with each other at the “Chunghwa 
Telecom Forum”, and that can influence more people.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
84Appendix
Reducing the Number of In-Use Cars by Sharing the Same Business 
Cars
As our telecommunication services are distributed throughout the nation, relevant 
constructions and services require the use of business cars. To reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from fuel consumption, we launched the plan of arranging and sharing 
business cars in 2008. An effective arrangement of business cars can reduce the 
number of in-use cars and fuel consumption. We educated our employees correct driving concepts with some measures including:
Central arrangement of business cars, and encouraging or coordinating staff who 
have the same routes of business trip to share the same car.
Encouraging employees having short-distant business trips to travel by public transportation or riding bicycles (more than 25,915 users in 2008).Supervising drivers to keep appropriate tire pressure and temperature of air conditioner, and prohibiting car idle operation.
Walking on Stairs Activity for Employees
Elevators are essential to office buildings for saving people’s strength and time. However, avoiding frequent use of elevators can reduce electricity consumption and save energy as well as allow people to do exercises by walking on stairs.
Therefore, we launched the activity, “walking on stairs more rather than taking an 
elevator”, in December 2008 for all employees. We developed an intelligent card swiping system for this activity that all employees or contracted workers can make a record by swiping their ID cards on the machine located on the corner of stairs room 
on each floor when they walk on different floors of the headquarters building.
This activity was estimated to save elevator operation for about 80 hours each month, 
and NT$ 60,000 electricity cost each year. This is equivalent to 12,000 kg of carbon reduction. Walking on stairs is not merely a good exercise as it can save energy and lower carbon emissions.
Eco-System Protection
We not only strived to lower the negative impact to our environment, but also contributed to eco-system protection by taking the initiative to plant trees after considering biodiversity. We encouraged our employees to make green by planting trees. A management system 
was used to control the growth of plants. So far we had planted more than 50,000 trees.Environment-friendly bicycles for business 
purpose had been commonly used. 
Chairperson of the Hope Foundation, Ms. Chi 
Cheng, and Chairperson of the company, Mr. 
Lu recommend the card swiping system for 
walking on stairs activity.
An ecological pond was built at an open 
space.
Major
ResponsesOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
85Energy Conservation and Carbon Reduction Services
We have long been establishing optical fiber network and NGN network, and assisting 
with Taiwan industrial upgrade and development by providing excellent and complete IT service platforms. In view of an important issue in this century, “energy conservation and 
carbon reduction”, we will strengthen the market development of emerging industries 
and create industrial cluster effect by establishing information systems and databases, developing application services and techniques and collaborating with partners.
To fulfill our commitment to environmental sustainability, we promoted the service of 
“energy conservation and carbon reduction” in 2008. Taking Intelligent Energy Network 
(iEN) as an example, computer data processing and analysis provide industries a solution of excellent environmental management, and allow them to carry out energy conservation management. This service can at least increase energy consumption efficiency by more than 20%.
The Telematics that is in progress of development is the first service mode of Intelligent 
Transportation System (ITS). It provides consumers the information ranging from energy conservation, security, emergency aid, navigation, real-time traffic information, entertainment, traveling and shopping premiums…etc as well as the convenience of 
enjoying mobile recreation and entertainment.
In the field of fine agriculture, as we hold the key techniques of near infrared ray (NIR), 
Internet overseeing service and information integration technique, we can assist in automation of fine agriculture to monitor the growing process of agricultural products, and establish production resumes for more product additional value. In the field of tourism, 
we are actively setting up new fundamental platforms for traveling websites to provide 
consumers information about traveling, stores and festivals by combining existing GIS map system and yellow page shops. With electronic means, energy consumption can be reduced while improving living convenience. 
Keeping in mind the idea of sustainable development, we are responsible for the society 
and friendly to the environment. We will continue the research and development of telecommunication and network technology and make innovations. We hope to bring more plentiful, beautiful and innovative low-carbon living services to the public.Dr. Michael Nobel is a great grand-nephew 
of the founder of Nobel Prizes, Alfred Nobel. 
He is currently the chairperson of the Nobel 
Foundation. He has long been paying 
attention to environmental protection and 
energy conservation, and in recent years, 
has dedicated to the exploitation of new 
energy resources in the hope of improving environmental pollution and slowing down 
global warming. Dr. Nobel was invited to 
give speeches at the “Conference of National 
Energy Resources”. His first stop in Taiwan 
was to visit our iEN, and we had a great 
discussion on the importance of energy 
conservation.
Key Action 
ItemsOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
86Appendix
Account Integration and Electronic Bills
Electronic bills have the advantages of “carbon reduction” and “carbon fixation”. Electronic 
form of bills can reduce CO2 produced during mail delivery which helps reduce carbon. 
Using less paper can help cut down fewer trees. That increases the effect of carbon fixation and CO
2 absorption.
We encouraged customers to manage their bills in electronic form, in order to promote the concept of energy conservation and carbon reduction. We chose to begin account 
integration with telephone bills, which cost the largest amount of paper. By end of 2008, 
about 84% customers used account integration, saving about 206.4 million pieces of A4 paper, equivalent to savings of 18,763 trees and 3,715 metric tons of CO
2 emission.
To take a further step to cut down the use of paper, we introduced the “online electronic bill service” in August 2005 providing consumers the services of checking bills, online fee 
payment and bill analysis etc. By end of 2008, there had been 2,020,000 accounts (about 
1,300,000 bills) using electronic bills. This saved 38,700,000 pieces of A4 paper, equivalent to savings of 3,518 trees and 697 metric tons of CO
2 emission. 
Outcomes of Account Integration and Electronic Bills2007 CSR Report
Our Commitment to Environmental Sustainability:
“We hope to draw on our experience of strict 
carbon management, energy conservation and 
carbon reductions, and integrate this with our 
core skills in Internet telecommunications to 
develop innovative services that are more 
environmentally friendly and provide substantial 
energy savings.” 
 2007 2008 2009 Target
Percentage of Customers Using Account Integration (%) 82 84 84
Customers Using  Electronic Bills  (million)  1.18 2.02 3
Note : 220,000 pieces of A4 paper ≒  , 1 metric ton of paper pulp ≒ 20 trees, According to the CO2 
reduction information station of the environmental protection administration, one piece of A4 paper can 
produce 0.018kg of CO2 .
Key Action 
ItemsOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
87Intelligent Energy Network Service
Although ICT industry holds the probability to solve the risks of climate change and 
create low-carbon life, it cannot achieve these goals independently. We continue to develop new products and services through partnership, and hope to meet the goal of 
low-carbon life with our consumers. 
With 25 years of electricity-monitoring and energy-saving experience, in addition to 
independent energy conservation, we dedicate to develop complete green energy-saving solutions using information technology and innovation and integration skills: intelligent 
energy-saving services, to manage energy-saving outcomes using iEN, in order to 
achieve the goals of environmental protection and energy conservation.
The service provided by iEN is not only systematic, but a total solution, covering power 
management system, air conditioning system, heat pump and boiler system, solar system, illumination system, water supply & sewerage system, environmental surveillance system, 
water-saving system etc.
Lighting
SystemAir Conditioning
System
Electricity
System
Environment
Monitoring SystemDraining
System
Heat Pump and
Boiler SystemScope of iEN System
Better Efficiency
by Changing Use
BehaviorBetter Efficiency
without Changing
Use BehaviorBetter
System and
 Facility
Efficiency
Better
Use of
Systems and
FacilitiesOptimal Arrangement of Transformer 
Load EfficiencyAir Conditioning System Adjustment(Balancing and Adjustment of Ice Water System)Control of  Pump FrequencyConversion and Parallel ConnectionChange to High-efficiency Light Tubes
Change to Heat Pump System
Demand Control
Schedule ControlProcedure ControliEN Means of Improving Energy-Saving BenefitsOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
88Appendix
Enjoy Carpooling Network
Promotion of energy saving and carbon reduction can never be accomplished by a 
single organization or institute, and it is also not possible to change the modern lifestyle instantaneously, thus, we have used our core technology and professionalism to build a 
platform for carpooling search.  The goal is to make the first step with the public majority 
to create “multiple win” results for individuals, the society and the environment.
Individuals: This platform allows the individuals to save on fuel, parking fees and car depreciations, and at the same time increase social activities, get to know new 
friends and reduce commute times.
Society: This program is integrated into the environment protection policy as well as the transportation policy, aiming to mitigate the problem of traffic jam and decrease the demand for car park construction. As to the environment, the program reduces CO
2 emissions and air pollution.
In 2008, the total mileage achieved by the platform was 79,951 kilometers, which isequivalent to rounding the Earth for 1.99*  times. Currently, we are planning the corporate
version of the carpooling service. With a customized platform, we expect to build thecarpooling network platform for companies within the shortest time and in the most cost-effective way, thus enhancing the benefits of energy saving and carbon reduction.
* Note : One circle of the planet ≒ 40,000 km
Telex Information System
We assisted the government to build the Land Administration Telex Information System, which electronically links every municipal/county land administration offices. People are able to surf the Internet via computers or PDA, and by using the Natural Person (Corporate) 
Identity Certificate, one can then make an inquiry on all municipal/county land registration 
information. The service is both convenient and fast, which indirectly cuts down CO
2 
emissions from the various forms of transporation.
System Features
Convenience: You just need a HiNet account to make inquiries on all municipal/county land registration information over the Internet.Accuracy: Data is synchronized real time with the database in every municipal/county 
land registration offices.
Safety: The user may make an inquiry of the land registration information by category to ensure confidentiality of personal information.
From 2005 to January 2009, we issued a total of 83.5 million transcripts. If each 
transcript costs 5 minutes, we saved 3.8 million hours for the government, and if 
people travel for one hour and pay NT$ 50 for transportation to get a transcript, we saved 45.63 million hours about NT$ 2,281.5 million for people.
 Enjoy Carpooling Network
http://carpool.hinet.net/open/acced.
html
Key Action 
Items
2005 2006 2007 2008Graph of Number of Transcripts Each Year
Unit: 10,000 pieces
2,758
1,5262,729
2,0242,562
2,2532,1212,405Counter Application
Electronic TranscriptOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
89Digital Homey Service
Digital homey service is a powerful, stable and high-safety service management platform. 
Making use of our optical fiber network, mobile network and wireless technology, it provides customers the terminal monitoring function, allowing them to remote control 
curtains, lighting, air conditioners and gas interceptor etc.
We can use this platform to maintain and control our customers’ facilities, and by 
combining with MOD and broadband Internet, provide them safe and comprehensive digital household services.
Distance Medical Care
We cooperated with Puli Christian Hospital to install WiMAX broadband network (with bandwidth about 40 Mbps and end-terminal FTTB network) in two traveling medical vans, which serve as “mobile clinics” to conduct traveling medical care.
The WiMAX broadband network confers the functions of mobile hospitals to medical 
vans. Distance medical care can be given by integrating in-hospital resources. We also installed the authentication mechanism for information security to protect medical records. Seeking medical care in the medical vans would be as safe and convenient as in a 
hospital. People living in mountains would have a quick access to medical care without 
delay due to traffic inconvenience. It can also save medical personnel’s time of traveling and increase medical care efficiency. It is no doubt beneficial to the quality of medical care service provided to people living in remote areas and tribes. Mobile Medical Care.
Mobile Medical Care
1. Service Requirements
6. Image Transmission
Identity AuthenticationHIS System
Diagnostic Imaging Service
Medical Group Voice ServiceMedical RecordsTraveling Medical Vans4. Register of National Health
 Insurance / Patient’s Personal
 Information
5. Searching for Medical
 Records
7. Image and Sound Transmission3. Authentication
 OK
In-hospital
and Out-of-
Hospital
DiagnosisVPN System
Authentication Server2. Identity
 Authentication
Patient’s Service RequestsOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
90Appendix
90Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackAppendixSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability Management
91
91Operational
DevelopmentStakeholder 
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
92Responsible
Operation
Third Party Review Opinion
This is the second independent Corporate Social Responsibility Report published by the Chunghwa Telecom. Co., Ltd (“Chunghwa 
Telecom” henceforth). In comparison to CSR Report for 2007, there were significant improvements in terms of the selection of CSR issues, clarity, comprehensiveness and balance of the report contents and the completeness and reliability of reported data. There 
are several features that are worth mentioning as follows:
1. Chunghwa Telecom recognizes that CSR fulfillment is built upon matching the reasonable expectations of stakeholders.  ChunghwaTelecom adopts a systematic “Materiality Assessment Process” to prioritize its CSR issues and clearly disclose the list of its stakeholders and issues requiring feedback from the corporation.
2. Chunghwa Telecom measures its social welfare expenditure through an innovative quantified management approach, which is a
 valuable reference for other corporations in Taiwan to manage their social welfare investments.
3. Chunghwa Telecom has in-depth understanding on the uniqueness of its own industry.  In response to the issue of climate change,the corporation has been actively researching and developing products and services in line with the concept of “energy conservation and carbon reduction”.  This is indeed a very good demonstration of the contributions that the ICT industry is capable 
of making with respect to energy and climate change related issues.
Listed below are the few areas of improvements we expect Chunghwa Telecom to make with respect to the preparation of its future 
CSR report and fulfillment of its CSR:1. Formulate a comprehensive set of CSR goals and commitments:  Disclosure of statistics and data on the corporation’s current
status of operations have raised the interest of many stakeholders in gaining further understanding on Chunghwa Telecom’s short-, 
medium- and long-term goals or commitments for the various CSR issues.
2. Illustration of qualitative and quantitative data analysis: The CSR Report not only provides an avenue of communication between acorporation and its stakeholders, it is also an important management tool.  However, the benefits of this management function will somehow be limited and report users will not have access to key information due to the lack of analysis on historical data.
3. Description of the interactive process between the corporation and its stakeholders: Issues such as electromagnetic waves andliberalization on the “last mile” have attracted quite significant social concern.  However, the report did not include a description of the process of communication or discussion between Chunghwa Telecom and its stakeholders and ways in which the final management decision was made to govern the issues.
4. Influence on suppliers: The relevant environmental and ethical requirements were mentioned in the report but the relevant
 countermeasures were not disclosed.
Overall, we observed marked improvements in Chunghwa Telecom’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report for 2008 with respect to report preparation, planning or contents. The issues and items disclosed in the report fully reflect the challenges currently confronting the corporation.  The Report is worthy of reading and may be referred to by other industry peers in preparation of their 
CSR reports.
Niven Cheng-Chung, Huang
Secretary General, Business Council for Sustainable Development               
Management
ApproachOperational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
93ASSURANCE STATEMENT
Independent Assurance Statement
SGS Taiwan’s report on sustainability activities in the CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO., LTD. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2008.
Nature and Scope the Assurance / Verification
SGS Taiwan was commissioned by CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO., LTD. to conduct an independent assurance of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report 2008. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the text, and data in accompanying tables, contained in this report.
The information in the CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO., LTD. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2008 and its presentation are the responsibility of 
the governing body and the management of CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO., LTD.. SGS Taiwan has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the report.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of verification set out below.The SGS Group has developed a set of protocols for the Assurance of Corporate Social Responsibility Report based on current best practice guidance 
provided in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006). These protocols follow differing levels of Assurance depending the reporting history and capabilities of the Reporting Organisation. This report has been assured using our Level 2 protocol for:
content veracity;evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines;
The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research to identify issues of materiality to the organisation, as identified by stakeholders, peer organisations, those which are expectations of regulations or international standards and those of general concern both in the public eye and raised by expert opinion. The process also included interviews with managers and relevant employees at their head office in Taipei, Taiwan; documentation and record review and evaluation of the report contents against the GRI’s G3 application requirements.
The process also includes the provision of an internal management report designed to feedback to the organisation on improvements and 
recommendations as a result of the assurance process.
Financial data was drawn directly from the audited accounts of CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO., LTD. and has not been checked back to source as part 
of this assurance process.
Statement of Independence and Competence
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social ASSURANCE STATEMENT and sustainability report assurance. SGS Taiwan affirms our independence from CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO., LTD. being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders.
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience of the industry and qualifications for this assignment, and include auditors 
who are registered Quality, EMS, OHSAS and SA 8000 Lead Auditors and IRCA Registered Sustainability Assurance Practitioner.
Verification/ Assurance Opinion
On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, we are satisfied that the information and data contained within CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO., LTD. Corporate Sustainability Report 2008 is accurate, reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO., LTD.’s sustainability activities during the reporting period.
We believe that the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting.
The report is the first time to be assured by an independent assurance team and CHUNGHWA TELECOM CO., LTD. have taken a bold step by offering 
the report to evaluation against GRI’s G3 guidelines. This shows a deserved confidence in their Corporate Social Responsibility Report development.
In our opinion, the contents of the report meet the content and quality requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative G3 Version 3.0 Application Level A
+.
Signed:
For and on behalf of SGS Taiwan Ltd.Dennis Yang, Chief Operating Officer of Eastern Asia17 August, 2009
Operational
DevelopmentStakeholder 
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
94Responsible
Operation
GRI G3 Content Index
Profile	 Disclosure	Items	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Strategy	and	Analysis	 1.1	 Statement 	from	the	most	senior	decision	maker	of	the	organization	about	the	relevance	 Messages	from	the	Chairman	and	CEO	
4	 	 of	sustainability	to	the	organization	and	its	strategy	
	 1.2	 Description	of	key	impacts,	risks,	and	opportunities.	 CSR	Issues	Management	 30
Organizational	 2.1	 Name	of	the	organization.	
Chunghwa	Telecom	Co.,	Ltd.	 Back	of	the
	 		 	 cover	page
	 2.2	 Primary	brands,	products,	and/or	services.	 Product	and	Service	 8
	 2.3	 Operational	structure	of	the	organization,	including	main	divisions,	operating	companies,	
Organization	Structure,	Other	Venture	Investments	
7,13	 	 subsidiaries,	and	joint	ventures.	
	 2.4	 Location	of	organization’s	headquarters.	
21-3	Hsinyi	Road,	Sec,	1,	Taipei,	Taiwan	100	R.O.C.	Back	of	the
	 		 	 cover	page
	 2.5	 Number	of	countries	where	the	organization	operates,	and	names	of	countries	with	 	
	 	 either	major	operations	or	that	are	specifically	relevant	to	the	sustainability	issues	 Other	Venture	Investments	 13
	 	 covered	in	the	report.
	 2.6	 Nature	of	ownership	and	legal	form.	 Shareholders	Structure	 11
	 2.7	 Markets	served.	 Market	Position	 10
	 2.8	 Scale	of	the	reporting	organization.	 Operating	Results	and	Economic	Impact	 11
	 2.9	 Significant 	changes	during	the	reporting	period	regarding	size,	structure	or	ownership.	 Change	of	Board	Directors	 18
	 2.10	 Awards	received	in	the	reporting	period.	
Awards	 Back	of	the
	 		 	 cover	page
Report	Parameters	 3.1	 Reporting	period	for	information	provided.	
January	2008	to	December	2008	 Back	of	the	
	 		 	 cover	page
	 3.2	 Date	of	most	recent	previous	report.	
May	23rd,	2008	 Back	of	the	
	 		 	 cover	page
	 3.3	 Reporting	cycle.	 Annually	 1
	 3.4	 Contact	point	for	questions	regarding	the	report	or	its	contents.	 Purpose	of	the	Report	 1
	 3.5	 Process	for	defining	report	content.	 CSR	Issues	Management	 30
	 3.6	 Boundary	of	the	report.	 Purpose	of	the	Report	 1
	 3.7	 State	any	specific	limitations	on	the	scope	or	boundary	of	the	report.	 Purpose	of	the	Report	 1
	 3.8	 Basis	for	reporting	on	joint	ventures,	subsidiaries,	leased	facilities,	outsourced		 	 	
	 	 operations, 		and	other	entities	that	can	significantly	affect	comparability	from	period	 Purpose	of	the	Report	 1
	 	 to	period	and/or	between	organizations.
	 3.9	 Data	measurement	techniques	and	the	bases	of	calculations,	including	assumptions	 	
	 	 and	techniques	underlying	estimations	applied	to	the	compilation	of	the	Indicators	 Energy-Consumption	Analysis	 72
	 	 and	other	information	in	the	report.
	 3.10	 Explanation	of	the	effect	of	any	re-statements	of	information	provided	in	earlier	 Energy-Consumption	Analysis,	Reduction	of	In-Use	72,79	 	 reports,	and	the	reasons	for	such	re-statement.	 Vehicles	and	Gasoline	Consumption
	 3.11	 Significant	changes	from	previous	reporting	periods	in	the	scope,	boundary,	or	
(No	Significant	Changes)	-
	 	 measurement	methods	applied	in	the	report.
	 3.12	 Table	identifying	the	location	of	the	Standard	Disclosures	in	the	report.	 GRI	G3	Content	Index	 94
	 3.13	 Policy	and	current	practice	with	regard	to	seeking	external	assurance	for	the	report.	 Third	Party	Review	Opinion;	Assurance	Statement	 92,93
Governance,	Commitments,	 4.1	 Governance	structure	of	the	organization,	including	committees	under	the	highest	 	
and	Engagement	 	 governance	body	responsible	for	specific	tasks,	such	as	setting	strategy	or	 Corporate 	Governance	 17
	 	 organizational	oversight.
	 4.2	 Indicate 	whether	the	Chair	of	the	highest	governance	body	is	also	an	executive	officer.	 (No)	 -
	 4.3	 For	organizations	that	have	a	unitary	board	structure,	state	the	number	of	members	
Corporate	Governance	 17
	 	 of	the	highest	governance	body	that	are	independent	and/or	nonexecutive	members.
	 4.4	 Mechanisms	for	shareholders	and	employees	to	provide	recommendations	or	
Improvement	in	Information	Transparency	
22	 	 direction	to	the	highest	governance	body.
	 4.5	 Linkage	between	compensation	for	members	of	the	highest	governance	body,	senior	
Corporate	Governance	
17	 	 managers,	and	executives,	and	the	organization’s	performance.
	 4.6	 Processes	in	place	for	the	highest	governance	body	to	ensure	conflicts	of	interest	are	
Corporate	Governance	
23	 	 avoided.
	 4.7	 Process	for	determining	the	qualifications	and	expertise	of	the	members	of	the	highest	 	
	 	 governance	body	for	guiding	the	organization’s	strategy	on	economic,	environmental,	 CSR 	Committee	 27
	 	 and	social	topics.
	 4.8	 Internally	developed	statements	of	mission	or	values,	codes	of	conduct,	and	principles	 	
	 	 relevant	to	economic,	environmental,	and	social	performance	and	 the	status	of	their	 CSR 	Committee	 27
	 	 implementation.
	 4.9	 Procedures	of	the	highest	governance	body	for	overseeing	the	organization’s	 	
	 	 identification		and	management	of	economic,	environmental,	and	social	performance,	
CSR	Committee	
27	
	 	 including	relevant	risks	and	opportunities,	and	adherence	or	compliance	with
	 	 internationally	agreed	standards,	codes	of	conduct,	and	principles.
	 4.10	 Processes	for	evaluating	the	highest	governance	body’s	own	performance,	particularly	
CSR	Committee	
27	 	 with	respect	to	economic,	environmental,	and	social	performance.
	 4.11	 Explanation	of	whether	and	how	the	precautionary	approach	or	principle	is	addressed	
Risk	Management	Mechanism	
19	 	 by	the	organization.
	 4.12	 Externally	developed	economic,	environmental,	and	social	charters,	principles,	or	other	
ADOC	2.0	Project	69	 	 initiatives	to	which	the	organization	subscribes	or	endorses.
	 4.13	 Memberships	in	associations	and/or	national/international	advocacy	organizations.	 (Descried	by	Associations	Types)	 15,29,40Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
95Profile	 Disclosure	Items	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Governance,	Commitments	 4.14	 List	of	stakeholder	groups	engaged	by	the	organization.	 Stakeholders’	Engagement	 29
and	Engagement	 4.15	 Basis	for	identification	and	selection	of	stakeholders	with	whom	to	engage.	 Stakeholders’	Engagement	 29
	 4.16	 Approaches	to	stakeholder	engagement,	including	frequency	of	engagement	by	type	
Stakeholders’	Engagement	
29	 	 and	by	stakeholder	group.
	 4.17	 Key	topics	and	concerns	that	have	been	raised	through	stakeholder	engagement,	and	 	
	 	 how	the	organization	has	responded	to	those	key	topics	and	concerns,	including	 Stakeholders’ 	Engagement	 29
	 	 through	its	reporting.
Economic	Performance	Indicators	 	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Management	Methods	to	Expose	 	 	 Sustainable	Operation	 7
Economic	Performance	 EC1	 Direct 	economic	value	generated	and	distributed,	including	revenues,	operating	costs,	 	
	 	 employee	compensation,	donations	and	other	community	investments,	retained	 Operating	Results	and	Economic	Impact	 11
	 	 earnings,	and	payments	to	capital	providers	and	governments.
	 EC2	 Financial	implications	and	other	risks	and	opportunities	for	the	organization’s	activities	
Climate	Change	and	Countermeasures	
21	 	 due	to	climate	change.
	 EC3	 Coverage	of	the	organization’s	defined	benefit	plan	obligations.	 Employee	Rights	 35
	 EC4	 Significant	financial	assistance	received	from	government.	 No	Financial	Aid	from	Government	 -
Market	Presence	 EC5	 Range 	of	ratios	of	standard	entry	level	wage	compared	to	local	minimum	wage	at	
Employee	Rights	
35	 	 significant	locations	of	operation.
	 EC6	 Policy,	practices,	and	proportion	of	spending	on	locally-based	suppliers	at	significant	
Supply	Chain	Management	
49	 	 locations	of	operation.
	 EC7	 Procedures	for	local	hiring	and	proportion	of	senior	management	hired	from	the	local	
Employee	Rights	
35	 	 community	at	locations	of	significant	operation.
Indirect	Economic	Impacts	 EC8	 Development	and	impact	of	infrastructure	investments	and	services	provided	
Quantifiable	Social	Contribution	
53	 	 primarily		for	public	benefit	through	commercial,	in-kind,	or	pro	bono	engagement.
	 EC9	 Understanding	and	describing	significant	indirect	economic	impacts,	including	the	
Five	Dimensions	of	Social	Contribution	
51	 	 extent	of	impacts.
Environmental	Performance	Indicators	 	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Management	Methods	to	Expose	 	 	 Environmental	sustainability	management	system,		
71,73	 	 	 Carbon	management	strategic	map
Materials	 EN1	 Materials	used	by	weight	or	volume.	 Energy-Consumption	Analysis	 72
	 EN2	 Percentage	of	materials	used	that	are	recycled	input	materials.	 Waste	Recycling	 80
Energy	 EN3	 Direct	energy	consumption	by	primary	energy	source.	 Energy-Consumption	Analysis	 72
	 EN4	 Indirect	energy	consumption	by	primary	source.	 Energy-Consumption	Analysis	 72
	 EN5	 Energy	saved	due	to	conservation	and	efficiency	improvements.	 Continuous	Environmental	Impact	Mitigation	 77
	 EN6	 Initiatives	to	provide	energy-efficient	or	renewable	energy	based	products	and	 	
Application	of	Renewable	Energy	
78	 	 services,	and	reductions	in	energy	requirements	as	a	result	of	these	initiatives.
	 EN7	 Initiatives	to	reduce	indirect	energy	consumption	and	reductions	achieved.	 Continuous	Environmental	Impact	Mitigation	 77
Water	 EN8	 Total	water	withdrawal	by	source.	 Energy-Consumption	Analysis	 72
	 EN9	 Water	sources	significantly	affected	by	withdrawal	of	water.	 No	Such	Cases	 -
	 EN10	 Percentage	and	total	volume	of	water	recycled	and	reused.	 Water	Recycling	 81
Biodiversity	 EN11	 Location	and	size	of	land	owned,	leased,	managed	in,	or	adjacent	to,	protected	 (No	Fixed	Assets	in	Such	Areas)	 -
	 EN12	 Description	of	significant	impacts	of	activities,	products,	and	services	on	biodiversity	
No	Such	Cases	
-	 	 in	protected	areas	and	areas	of	high	biodiversity	value	outside	protected	areas.
	 EN13	 Habitats	protected	or	restored.	 No	Such	Cases	 -
	 EN14	 Strategies,	current	actions,	and	future	plans	for	managing	impacts	on	biodiversity.	 Promotion	of	“Biodiversity”,	Eco-System	Protection	 61,84
	
EN15	 Number	of	IUCN	Red	List	species	and	national	conservation	list	species	with	habitats	
No	Such	Cases	
-	 	 in	areas	affected	by	operations,	by	level	of	extinction	risk.
Emissions,	Effluents,	and	 EN16	 Total	direct	and	indirect	greenhouse	gas	emissions	by	weight.	 Energy-Consumption	Analysis	 72
Waste	 EN17	 Other	relevant	indirect	greenhouse	gas	emissions	by	weight.	 Energy-Consumption	Analysis	 72
	 EN18	 Initiatives	to	reduce	greenhouse	gas	emissions	and	reductions	achieved.	 Energy-Consumption	Analysis	 72
	 EN19	 Emissions 	of	ozone-depleting 	substances	by	weight.	 We	do	not	report	on	this	issue	(no	intention	of	reporting
	 	 	 in	the	future),	since	the	disclosure	does	not	relate	to	our	 -
	 	 	 business	because	we	are	not	a	manufacture	
	 EN20	 NO,	SO,	and	other	significant	air	emissions	by	type	and	weight.	 We	do	not	report	on	this	issue	(no	intention	of	reporting
	 	 	 in	the	future),	since	the	disclosure	does	not	relate	to	our	 -
	 	 	 business	because	we	are	not	a	manufacture	
	 EN21	 Total	water	discharge	by	quality	and	destination.	 We	do	not	report	on	this	issue	(no	intention	of	reporting
	 	 	 in	the	future),	since	the	disclosure	does	not	relate	to	our	 -
	 	 	 business	because	we	are	not	a	manufacture	
	 EN22	 Total	weight	of	waste	by	type	and	disposal	method.	 Waste	Recycling	 80
	 EN23	 Total	number	and	volume	of	significant	spills.	 No	Such	Cases	 -
	 EN24	 Weight	of	transported,	imported,	exported,	or	treated	waste	deemed	hazardous	 	
	 	 under	the	terms	of	the	Basel	Convention	Annex	I,	II,	III,	and	VIII,	and	percentage	of	 No 	Such	Cases	 -
	 	 transported		waste	shipped	internationally.
	 EN25	 Identity,	size,	protected	status,	and	biodiversity	value	of	water	bodies	and	related	habitats	
No	Such	Cases	
-	 	 significantly	affected	by	the	reporting	organization’s	discharges	of	water	and	runoff.
Products	and	Services	 EN26	 Initiatives 	to	mitigate	environmental	impacts	of	products	and	services,	and	extent	of	 Continuous	Environmental	Impact	Mitigation,		
77,82	 	 impact	mitigation.	 Employee	Environmental	Initiatives
	 EN27	 Percentage	of	products	sold	and	their	packaging	materials	that	are	reclaimed	by	category.	 No 	Such	Cases	 -Operational
DevelopmentStakeholder 
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
96Responsible
Operation
Environmental	Performance	Indicators	 	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Compliance	 EN28	 Monetary	value	of	significant	fines	and	total	number	of	non-monetary	sanctions	for	
No	Such	Cases	
-	 	 noncompliance	with	environmental	laws	and	regulations.
Transport	 EN29	 Significant 	environmental	impacts	of	transporting	products	and	other	goods	and	materials	 Reduction	of	In-Use	Vehicles,	Investigation	of	
79,82	 	 used	for	the	organization’s	operations,	and	transporting	members	of	the	workforce.	 Employee	Commuting
Overall	 EN30	 Total	environmental	protection	expenditures	and	investments	by	type.	 Continuous	Environmental	Impact	Mitigation	 77
Labor	Practices	and	Decent	Work	Indicators	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Management	Methods	to	Expose			 	 CSR	Organization,	Stakeholder	Feedback,		
27,29,30	 	 	 CSR	Managemen
Employment	 LA1	 Total	workforce	by	employment	type,	employment	contract,	and	region.	 Diversity	 33
	 LA2	 Total	number	and	rate	of	employee	turnover	by	age	group,	gender,	and	region.	 Turnover	Rate	by	Category	 32
	 LA3	 Benefits 	provided	to	full-time	employees	that	are	not	provided	to	temporary	or	 Employee	Rights	
35	 	 part-time	employees,	by	major	operations.
Labor/Management	 LA4	 Percentage	of	employees	covered	by	collective	bargaining	agreements.	 Employee	Rights	 35
Relations	 LA5	 Minimum 	notice	period(s)	regarding	operational	changes,	including	whether	it	is	
Employee	Rights	
35	 	 specified	in	collective	agreements.
Occupational	Health		 LA6	 Percentage 	of	total	workforce	represented	in	formal	joint	management–worker 	health	and	
Occupational	Safety	and	Health	Management	System	
36and	Safety	 	 safety	committees	that	help	monitor	and	advise	on	occupational	health	and	safety	programs.
	 LA7	 Rates 	of	injury,	occupational	diseases,	lost	days,	and	absenteeism,	and	number	of	
Occurrence	of	Occupational	Accidents	
37	 	 work	related	fatalities	by	region.
	 LA8	 Education, 	training,	counseling,	prevention,	and	risk-control	programs	in	place	to	assist	 Looking	After	the	Mental	and	Physical	Health	of	
36	 	 workforce	members,	their	families,	or	community	members	regarding	serious	diseases.	 Employees
	 LA9	 Health	and	safety	topics	covered	in	formal	agreements	with	trade	unions.	 Harmonious	Labor	Relations	 34
Training	and	Education	 LA10	 Average	hours	of	training	per	year	per	employee	by	employee	category.	 Employees	Training	 38
	 LA11	 Programs 	for	skills	management	and	lifelong	learning	that	support	the	continued	
Training	and	Development	
38	 	 employability	of	employees	and	assist	them	in	managing	career	endings.
	 LA12	 Percentage 	of	employees	receiving	regular	performance	and	career	development	reviews.	 Training	and	Development	 38
Diversity	and	Equal	 LA13	 Composition 	of	governance	bodies	and	breakdown	of	employees	per	category	according	
Diversity	
33Opportunity	 	 to	gender,	age	group,	minority	group	membership,	and	other	indicators	of	diversity.
	 LA14	 Ratio	of	basic	salary	of	men	to	women	by	employee	category.	 Once	hired,	employees	who	do	the	same	job	are	offered
	 	 	 the	same	basic	salary,	regardless	of	gender	 32
Human	Rights	Performance	Indicators	 	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Management	Methods	to	Expose			 	 CSR	Organization,	Stakeholder	Feedback,		
27,29,30	 	 	 CSR	Managemen
Investment	and	 HR1	 Percentage	and	total	number	of	significant	investment	agreements	that	include	human	 	
Supply	Chain	Management	
49Procurement	Practices	 	 rights	clauses	or	that	have	undergone	human	rights	screening.
	 HR2	 Percentage	of	significant	suppliers	and	contractors	that	have	undergone	screening	
Supply	Chain	Management	
49	 	 on	human	rights	and	actions	taken.
	 HR3	 Total	hours	of	employee	training	on	policies	and	procedures	concerning	aspects	of	human	
Diversity	
33	 	 rights	that	are	relevant	to	operations,	including	the	percentage	of	employees	trained.
Non-Discrimination	 HR4	 Total	number	of	incidents	of	discrimination	and	actions	taken.	 Diversity	 33
Freedom	of	Association	 HR5	 Operations 	identified	in	which	the	right	to	exercise	freedom	of	association	and	collective	
Harmonious	Labor	Relations	
and	Collective	Bargaining	 	 bargaining	may	be	at	significant	risk,	and	actions	taken	to	support	these	rights.	 	 34
Child	Labor	 HR6	 Operations	identified	as	having	significant	risk	for	incidents	of	child	labor,	and	
No	Such	Cases	
-	 	 measures	taken	to	contribute	to	the	elimination	of	child	labor.
Forced	and	Compulsory	 HR7	 Operations	identified	as	having	significant	risk	for	incidents	of	forced	or	compulsory	
No	Such	Cases	
-Labor	 	 labor,	and	measures	to	contribute	to	the	elimination	of	forced	or	compulsory	labor.
Security	Practices	 HR8	 Percentage 	of	security	personnel	trained	in	the	organization’s	policies	or	procedures	
No	Such	Cases	
-	 	 concerning	aspects	of	human	rights	that	are	relevant	to	operations.
Indigenous	Rights	 HR9	 Total	number	of	incidents	of	violations	involving	rights	of	indigenous	people	and	
No	Such	Cases	
-	 	 actions	taken.
Society	Performance	Indicators	 	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Management	Methods	to	Expose			 	 Five	Dimensions	of	Social	Contribution,	Chunghwa	
51,52	 	 	 Telecom	Foundation,	Create	digital	opportunities
Community	 SO1	 Nature,	scope,	and	effectiveness	of	any	programs	and	practices	that	assess	and	manage	
Five	Dimensions	of	Social	Contribution	
51	 	 the	impacts	of	operations	on	communities,	including	entering,	operating,	and	exiting.
Corruption	 SO2	 Percentage	and	total	number	of	business	units	analyzed	for	risks	related	to	corruption.	 Corporate 	Code	of	Ethics	 23
	 SO3	 Percentage	of	employees	trained	in	organization’s	anti-corruption	policies	and	procedures.	 Corporate 	Code	of	Ethics	 23
	 SO4	 Actions	taken	in	response	to	incidents	of	corruption.	 Corporate	Code	of	Ethics	 23
Public	Policy	 SO5	 Public	policy	positions	and	participation	in	public	policy	development	and	lobbying.	 Countermeasures	for	Policy	&	Regulatory	Changes	 21
	 SO6	 Total	value	of	financial	and	in-kind	contributions	to	political	parties,	politicians,	
No	political	donations	in	2008	
-	 	 and	related	institutions	by	country.
Anticompetitive	Behavior	 SO7	 Total 	number	of	legal	actions	for	anticompetitive 	behavior,	anti-trust,	and	monopoly	
Rules	of	Conduct	for	Sales	and	Marketing	Staff	
23	 	 practices	and	their	outcomes.
Compliance	 SO8	 Monetary	value	of	significant	fines	and	total	number	of	non-monetary	sanctions	for	
Rules	of	Conduct	for	Sales	and	Marketing	Staff	
23	 	 noncompliance	with	laws	and	regulations.
Product	Responsibility	Performance	Indicators	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Product	Responsibility	Performance	Indicators	 Products	and	Services	 8
Customer	Health	and		 PR1	 Life 	cycle	stages	in	which	health	and	safety	impacts	of	products	and	services	are	 	
Safety	 	 assessed	for	improvement,	and	percentage	of	significant	products	and	services	 Lowering 	Negative	Service	Impacts	 46
	 	 categories	subject	to	such	procedures.Operational
DevelopmentResponsible
OperationStakeholder 
FeedbackSocial
ContributionEnvironmental
Sustainability ManagementAppendix
97Product	Responsibility	Performance	Indicators	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Customer	Health	and	 PR2	 Total	number	of	incidents	of	non-compliance 	with	regulations	and	voluntary	codes	 	
Safety	 	 concerning	health	and	safety	impacts	of	products	and	services	during	their	life	cycle,		 Lowering 	Negative	Service	Impacts	 46
	 	 by	type	of	outcomes.
Product	and	Service	 PR3	 Type	of	product	and	service	information	required	by	procedures	and	percentage	of	
No	Such	Cases	
-Labeling	 	 significant	products	and	services	subject	to	such	information	requirements.
	 PR4	 Total	number	of	incidents	of	non-compliance 	with	regulations	and	voluntary	codes	
No	Such	Cases	
-	 	 concerning	product	and	service	information	and	labeling,	by	type	of	outcomes.
	 PR5	 Practices 	related	to	customer	satisfaction,	including	results	of	surveys	measuring	
Service	Satisfaction	Survey,	Opinion	Feedbacks	
42,44	 	 customer	satisfaction.
Marketing	Communications	 PR6	 Programs 	for	adherence	to	laws,	standards,	and	voluntary	codes	related	to	marketing	
Rules	of	Conduct	for	Sales	and	Marketing	Staff	
23	 	 communications,	including	advertising,	promotion,	and	sponsorship.
	 PR7	 Total	number	of	incidents	of	non-compliance 	with	regulations	and	voluntary	codes	 	
	 	 concerning	marketing	communications,	including	advertising,	promotion,	and	 Rules 	of	Conduct	for	Sales	and	Marketing	Staff	 23
	 	 sponsorship	by	type	of	outcomes.
Customer	Privacy	 PR8	 Total	number	of	substantiated	complaints	regarding	breaches	of	customer	privacy	
Customers	Privacy	Protection	
43	 	 and		losses	of	customer	data.
Compliance	 PR9	 Monetary 	value	of	significant	fines	for	noncompliance 	with	laws	and	regulations	
Rules	of	Conduct	for	Sales	and	Marketing	Staff	
23	 	 concerning	the	provision	and	use	of	products	and	services.
Telecommunication	Sector	Specific	Indicators	 Chunghwa	Telecom’s	Responses	 Page
Internal	Operations
Investment	 IO1	 Capital	investment	in	telecommunication	network	infrastructure	broken	down	by	
Consolidated	Capital	Expenditure	
12	 	 country/region.
	 IO2	 Net	costs	for	service	providers	under	the	Universal	Service	Obligation	when	extending	
Quantifiable	Social	Contribution	
53	 	 service	to	geographic	locations	and	low-income	groups,	which	are	not	profitable.
Health	and	Safety	 IO3	 Practices	to	ensure	health	and	safety	of	field	personnel	involved	in	the	installation,	 	
	 	 operation	and	maintenance	of	masts,	base	stations,	laying	cables	and	other	outside	
EMF	Issues	
47	 	 plant.		Related	health	and	safety	issues	include	working	at	heights,	electric	shock,
	 	 exposure	to	EMF	and	radio	frequency	fields,	and	exposure	to	hazardous	chemicals.
	 IO4	 Compliance	with	ICNIRP	(International	Commission	on	Non-Ionising	Radiation	
EMF	Issues	
47	 	 Protection)	standards	on	exposure	to	radiofrequency	(RF)	emissions	from	handsets.
	 IO5	 Compliance	with	ICNIRP	(International	Commission	on	Non-Ionising	Radiation	 	
	 	 Protection)	guidelines	on	exposure	to	radiofrequency	(RF)	emissions	from	base	 EMF 	Issues	 47
	 	 stations.
	 IO6	 Policies	and	practices	with	respect	to	Specific	Absorption	Rate	(SAR)	of	handsets.	 EMF	Issues	 47
Infrastructure	 IO7	 Policies	and	practices	on	the	siting	of	masts	and	transmission	sites	including	
EMF	Issues	
47	 	 stakeholder	consultation,	site	sharing,	and	initiatives	to	reduce	visual	impacts.
	 IO8	 Number	and	percentage	of	stand-alone	sites,	shared	sites,	and	sites	on	existing	structures.	 EMF 	Issues	 47
Providing	Access
Access	to		 PA1	 Polices 	and	practices	to	enable	the	deployment	of	telecommunications 	infrastructure	 	
Telecommunication	 	 and	access	to	telecommunications 	products	and	services	in	remote	and	low	population	 Universality	of	Telecommunication	Services	 54
Products	and	Services	 	 density	areas.
	 PA2	 Policies 	and	practices	to	overcome	barriers	for	access	and	use	of	telecommunication	
Promote	Digital	Learning,	Bridge	the	Digital	Divide	
55,58	 	 products	and	services.
	 PA3	 Policies 	and	practices	to	ensure	availability	and	reliability	of	telecommunications	 	
	 	 products 	and	services	and	quantify,	where	possible,	for	specified	time	periods	and	 Natural	Disasters	 20
	 	 locations	of	down	time.
	 PA4	 Quantify	the	level	of	availability	of	telecommunications	products	and	services	in	areas	
Marketing	Position	
10	 	 where	the	organization	operates.
	 PA5	 Number	and	types	of	telecommunication	products	and	services	provided	to	and	used	
Discount	of	Telecom	Services	Fee	
58	 	 by	low	and	no	income	sectors	of	the	population.
	 PA6	 Programs 	to	provide	and	maintain	telecommunication 	products	and	services	in	 Emergency	Rescue	System,	Sea	Rescue		
65	 	 emergency	situations	and	for	disaster	relief.	 Communication	Service
Access	to	Content	 PA7	 Polices 	and	practices	to	manage	human	rights	issues	relating	to	access	and	use	of	
Lowering	Negative	Service	Impacts	
46	 	 telecommunications	products	and	services.
Customer	Relations	 PA8	 Policies	and	practices	to	publicly	communicate	on	EMF	related	issues.	 EMF	Issues	 47
	 PA9	 Total	amount	invested	in	programs	and	activities	in	electromagnetic	field	research.	 EMF	Issues	 47
	 PA10	 Initiatives	to	ensure	clarity	of	charges	and	tariffs.	 Opinion	Feedbacks	 44
	 PA11	 Initiatives 	to	inform	customers	about	product	features	and	applications	that	will		
Opinion	Feedbacks	
44	 	 promote	responsible,	efficient,	cost	effective,	and	environmentally	preferable	use.
Technology	Applications
Resource	Efficiency	 TA1	 Provide 	examples	of	the	resource	efficiency	of	telecommunication 	products	and	
Energy	Conservation	and	Carbon	Reduction	Services	
85	 	 services	delivered.
	 TA2	 Provide 	examples	of	telecommunication 	products,	services	and	applications	that	have	
Energy	Conservation	and	Carbon	Reduction	Services	
85	 	 the	potential	to	replace	physical	objects.
	 TA3	 Disclose 	any	measures	of	transport	and/or	resource	changes	of	customer	use	of	the	
Energy	Conservation	and	Carbon	Reduction	Services	
85	 	 telecommunication	products	and	services	listed	above.
	 TA4	 Disclose 	any	estimates	of	the	rebound	effect	(indirect	consequences)	of	customer	use	
Energy	Conservation	and	Carbon	Reduction	Services	
85	 	 of	the	products	and	services	listed	above,	and	lessons	learned	for	future	development.
	 TA5	 Description 	of	practices	relating	to	intellectual	property	rights	and	open	source		
R&D	and	Innovation	
14	 	 technologies.Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.