$
.
:
$.
.:
$:
$.:
,ʕശཥߵࠦ܆ڦ˖وQEGɨʹ1
We are very glad to take this opportunity to share the com-
pany’s visions and accomplishments achieved in 2009 
regarding corporate social responsibility through the publi -
cation of Chunghwa Telecom ’s third “CSR Report. ” 
The most important part of being socially responsible is to 
manage our core business well. “Focusing on core busi-
nesses, valuing professionalism” has always been the 
motto of the company. All along, Chunghwa Telecom was 
devoted to its core businesses. By integrating telecommu -
nications and information technology, we provide all cus-
tomers and partners a quality platform for communication 
to help them in their business development and expansion.
Exceptional corporate governance is the key to a com-
pany ’s sustainable development which is highly valued by 
us. Our persistence in lawful operation and transparent in-
formation contributed to the fact that we are acknowledged 
amongst the most reliable benchmark business proven 
by the various awards received. Facing the constant risks 
brought by climate change and resource consumption, we 
continue to research on innovative integration through in-
formation and telecommunication technologies to develop 
more environmental-friendly products and services. This is 
just part of our ef forts in the area of Green Economy .
Chunghwa Telecom’s Intelligent Energy Network (iEN) 
integrated the telecommunication network and information 
technology to develop customized energy-saving products 
as a total solution that can perform energy consumption 
diagnosis, control, management and improvement. iEN 
can assist corporations to perform centralized monitoring 
of internal electricity-using devices and organize and ana-
lyze data to provide optimal operational environment man-
agement while realizing energy management at the same 
time. For example, after Miao-Li General Hospital started 
to use iEN, 200 million is expected to be saved annually on 
energy costs. This constitutes to a 49.27% saving rate on 
costs and a 400 tons reduction on carbon emission. Per-
formances of other corporate clients that are using the sys -
tem also showed that their energy efficiency could go up 
to over 20% higher than before. Chunghwa Telecom also 
implemented the system on all plants and office buildings 
which won us the 18th Annual Enterprises Environmental 
Protection Award on 2009 by the Environmental Protection 
Administration.
Apart from the above, we practice our commitment in be-
coming an environmental-friendly operation through green 
procurement. In 2009 alone, we spent over NT$206 million 
on green procurement. This not only marks a record within 
Taiwan’s service industry but also gained us recognition 
from Taipei City on Green Procurement by the Govern-
ment, Private Enterprises and Organizations. Mobile com-
munications equipment waste recycling is also one of our 
key missions in gradually realizing responsible consump-
tion.
Last year, we successfully recycled almost 40 hundred 
waste mobile phones and 20 hundred kilos accessories 
(including batteries). Chunghwa Telecom proved itself to 
be the best in Taiwan in terms of mobile phone recycling.   Over many years, Chunghwa Telecom has accompanied 
Taiwan’s society in its development and created a strong 
emotional bond with communities. Charity work and pro-
viding care for the disadvantaged is seen as our unshak-
able responsibility. Chunghwa Telecom Foundation and 
local volunteers enabled us to go into remote areas to set 
up “Digital Neighbor sites “providing people with computer 
hardware and software, computer lectures and repair 
services so that the disadvantaged, such as children and 
immigrant spouses, can enjoy the opportunity of learning 
through digital means. 
While the nation was attacked by the Typhoon Morakot 
with flood on August 8th, 2009, our colleagues went into 
the disaster areas at the first instance to complete the mis-
sion of “zero communication isolation.” A disaster relief 
campaign and local produce fairs were also initiated to 
help the people who were affected. We also collaborated 
with Fu Jen Catholic University and made use of our previ -
ous experiences on distance learning in helping children in 
rural areas. A three-year plan is in place to provide children 
in the disaster areas with a quality after-school learning 
environment. 
Being one of the initiators of ADOC 2.0 (see note) from the 
private sector, we integrated the Blind Resources Center 
of Tamkang University to jointly promote the “Assisting the 
Visually-impaired in Telecommuting through ICT Program ”. 
Chunghwa Telecom and the Center are working hand in 
hand to set up a Call Center for the Visually-impaired so 
that they can enjoy more employment opportunities. Given 
the success of the project, we also exported the complete 
set of operational model to places like the Philippines and 
Beijing to help them set up their own “ADOC 2.0 Digital 
Opportunity Center for the V isually-impaired. “
In an environment filled with challenges, Chunghwa Tele-
com will enhance our dialogues with different communities 
and partners with the efforts from our staff and support 
from clients to continuously pursue growth and excellence 
for a better future for all.
ADOC 2.0 is the acronym for APEC Digital Opportunity Center 2.0. This is the second phase of the Project for Digital Opportunity Center . 
This project was proposed to APEC and is managed by Taiwan.Note:Chairman
Shyue-Ching Lu
2Integrity
InclusivityInvestors/Shareholders,
Employees, Government,
Industry PeersCorporate Governance
Risk management  Regulation Compliance and 
Information T ransparency Corporate Social Respon -
sibility
Reinforcing CSR Regula -
tionsInvestors/Shareholders,
Employees, Government
Elevating Innovation ’s 
Efﬁciency
Chunghwa T elecom 
Foundation
Management of Social 
ContributionGreenhouse Gas Inventory and 
Electricity Management
Environmental Sustainability 
Management SystemExtension of Innovation
EngagementInvestors/Shareholders, 
Government, Business Part -
ners, Global Environment
Local Communities and Civil 
Groups
Employees, Local Commu -
nities, and Disadvantaged 
GroupsDiversity
Human Rights and Labor 
Relations
Talent Attraction and 
Training
Brand Management and Product 
Promotion
FeedbackCustomer ServiceEmployees, Dependents
Customers, Community 
OrganizationsEmployees and Business 
Partners313
Carbon Disclosure and -
Climate Change-derived 
RisksIndustrial Environment of 
Fair CompetitionSocially Responsible In -
vestmentKey Issues MatrixCSR Survey on Stake -
holdersCommunication and 
Opinion Exchange with 
StakeholdersCSR Key Information 
Disclosure 
CSR Key Performance 
Index
eICT Innovation
Digital Good Neighbor
Reconstruction after T yphoon 
Morakot
E-tutoring Projects for School 
Children in the Devastated 
AreasTelecom Green Buildings 
Action
Green Procurement and 
Renewable EnergyADOC 2.0 ProjectSupply Chain Management
Universal T elecom Services
E-tutoring Projects for 
School Children in the Dev -
astated AreasEnvironmental Protection 
Actions and Ethical Con -
sumptionInternationalization of R&D 
Results
Digital Character
Developing Products for 
Special NeedsEthical Supply Chain Man -
agement in the T elecommu -
nications Industry
Balancing W ork and 
Lifestyle
Disaster Response and Re -
sponsible CommunicationsHealth, Safety and Retire -
ment Protection
Privacy Protection and Combating 
Telephone Fraud
Healthy User Environment
Electromagnetic Radiation Decision-
Making Mechanism and EducationCorporate V olunteering
Innovative V alue-Added 
Services4Operational Development
Even though 2009 was a challenging year, our operational performance was still remarkable thanks to the efforts of all 
our hard-working staff. The company ’s operational performance is summarized as follows: the consolidated revenues 
were NT$ 198.36 billion; Consolidated net income attributable to stockholders of the parent was NT$ 43.76 billion; 
earnings per share after tax was NT$ 4.51; consolidated income tax expenses were NT$ 12.74 billion.
To comply with the company ’s mid-term development strategies to advance revenues, investments on domestic and 
overseas markets are still strongly promoted. This can not only solidify our core businesses but also boost more en-
ergy for developing emerging businesses and expanding to overseas markets. We strengthen our communication with 
companies we invest in through periodical affiliated enterprises management meetings. During these meetings, we 
review and establish targets and strategies regarding these companies to set up annual operational goals and execu -
tion plans. Annual operational performance reviews of the companies we invested on are also included in our Board 
operational meetings to truly monitor and manage these businesses.
Consolidated Financial Performance of Chunghwa T elecom and subsidiaries (unit: thousand NTD)Chunghwa T elecom Organizational Chart 2.3
EC1
2008 2009
201,669,521
113,546,289
29,556,241
58,566,911
4.64198,361,220
112,735,948
29,231,194
56,394,078
4.51
Charts indicated with (     ) represent disclosure items disclosing GRI G3 indexes (see P .73-80) Note:Shareholders ’
MeetingSupervisors
PresidentVice
PresidentsOperating Departments in
Headquarters
Northern  Taiwan Business Group
Southern  Taiwan Business Group
Mobile Business Group
Data Communications Business
Group
International Business Group
EnterPrise Business Group
Telecom Laboratorie s
Telecom  Training InstituteBoard of
Directors
Auditing
DepartmentBoard of 
Directors(BOD)
Chairman &
CEO
Net revenues
Operating Costs
Operating Expenses
Income from operations
Earnings per shareSecretariat28.81% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 56.04% 100% 69.36% 100% 49.07% 89% 100% 100%
5Market Position of Chunghwa T elecom (User Number and Market Share)
Main businesses of Chunghwa T elecomChunghwa T elecom Co., Ltd and Subsidiaries
2.7
2.2
43.6%
11.9%
36.0%
7.7%
0.80%
100%2.5
2007 2008 2009
1,295
870
425
40897.4%
35.8%
87.0%
68.3%1,273
895
431
41097.3%
35.2%
83.8%
68.1%1,244. 8
926.9
430.4
406.797.1%
34.4%
83.0%
71.8%100%
100%100% 100% 100% 100% 53.74% 100%
100%3.66%
100%
Local TelephoneChunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.
(Chunghwa)
Senao 
International 
Co. Ltd.,
(SENAO)
Senao Interna -
tional (Samoa) 
Holding Ltd. 
(SIS)Concord 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. (Concord)Unigate Telecom 
Inv. (Unigate)CHIEF Telecom 
(HK) Ltd. 
(CHIEF( HK))Chief 
International 
Corp. (CIC)Chunghwa 
Precision Test 
Tech. Co., Ltd. 
(CHPT)Chunghwa In -
vestment Holding 
Co. (CIHC)
Senao Interna -
tional HK Ltd. 
(SIHK)Glory Network 
System Service 
(Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
(GNSS(Shanghai))CHI One Invest -
ment Co., Ltd. 
(COI)Chunghwa 
International 
Yellow Pages Co. 
Ltd.(CIYP)Chunghwa 
Telecom 
Singapore 
Pte., Ltd.
(CHTS)Chunghwa 
System
Integration Co., 
Ltd.(CHSI)Chughwa 
Telecom 
Global, Inc.
(CHTG)Donghwa 
Telecom Co., 
Ltd. (DHT)Spring House 
Entertainment Inc. 
(SHE)Light Era Develop -
ment Co., Ltd. (LED)CHIEF Telecom 
Inc.( CHIEF)Chunghwa 
Telecom Japan 
Co.,Ltd. 
(CHTJ)InfoExplorer 
Co.,Ltd. (IFE)Chunghwa 
Investment Co., 
Ltd. (CHI)New Prospect 
Investments 
Holdings Ltd. 
(New Prospect)Prime Asia 
Investments Group 
Ltd. (Prime Asia)
Mobile Phone
Broadband Access
Services
Mobile Communication
Services
Internet
1.Local Telephone 
Services  
Domestic2.Domestic 
Long-Distance 
Telephone Services
3.Broadband Access 
(ADSL  and FTTx) 
International Fixed Commu -
nication
Other
TotalDue to stiff market competition and instable economy, ARPU suf-
fered some loses. Mobile phone sales also decreased due to the 
economic downturn.
Internet value-added services such as information security and 
online music services, and incomes from special projects were the 
main reasons for revenue growth in this area. 
Mainly inﬂuenced by NCC ’s demands on lowering connection fees 
and decrease in phone calls due to the economic downturn.
Revenues from FTTx increased since more ADSL users’ were 
upgraded to optical fiber-based broadband. At the same time, 
revenues from ADSL suffered some loses due to such upgrade, 
fierce competition among broadband service providers and NCC’s 
demands of a price cut. 
The recession caused the rapid replacement of traditional inter-
national communication services by VOIP and other cost-saving 
services. Influenced by the economic downturn and substitution by mobile 
phones and VOIP . Description
86.52 billion (-2.6%)
23.65 billion (+2.7%)
33.21 billion (-3.9%)
7.40 billion (-12.7%)
19.90 billion (-0.3%)
15.24 billion (-4.3%)
1.47 billion (+74.3%)
198.36 billion (-1.6%)RatioRevenues
(Comparison of revenue with same period last year)HiNet6Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) received a large amount 
of attention in the past few years. Taiwan Stock Exchange and 
Gre Tai Securities Market composed the “Corporate Social Re-
sponsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE/GTSM Listed 
Companies” to regulate said companies’ responsibilities and li-
abilities in terms of environmental, human rights and labor rights 
protection.  For Chunghwa Telecom, this marks that CSR is 
moving from voluntary disclose to governmental regulation com-
pliance.
On the other hand, investors from around the world are also 
seeing CSR as an important index while evaluating potential 
profiting capability and operational risk management. Chunghwa 
Telecom will continue to strengthen our management on related 
issues and properly communicate with all related parties in order 
to achieve the ultimate goal of elevating our corporate value.7
We listen carefully to peoples ’ 
diversified expectations 
First company to declare com -
pliance with the “Corporate 
Social Responsibility Best 
Practice Principles for TWSE/
GTSM Listed Companies ” Responsible
        Management
Investors/shareholders, employees, government
  
P10
13Index Category
First telecom service provider to conduct 
CSR survey on institutional investors
“National Sustainable Development Award ” by Executive Yuan
“Corporate Citizenship Award ” by Common W ealth Magazine
“Corporate Social Responsibility Award ” by Global V iews Monthly Magazine
“Taiwan Corporate Sustainability Report Award - Gold Award ” by Taiwan ’s Institute for Sustainable Energy
“Best Corporate Social Responsibility ” by Finance AsiaExecution
neededContinued 
executionEnforced2008
Commitment2009
Performance2010
TargetPage
Corporate Social Respon -
sibility
Reinforcing CSR Regula -
tionsKey Issues MatrixCSR Survey on Stake -
holdersCommunication and 
Opinion Exchange with 
StakeholdersCSR Key Information 
Disclosure  
CSR Key Performance 
IndexInvestors/shareholders, 
employees, governmentVoices
Commitment8
Article 54: ”In developing its normal business and 
maximizing the shareholders’ interest, a TSEC/
GTSM listed company shall pay attention to con-
sumers’ interest, environmental protection of com-
munity and public interest issues, and shall have 
high regard for the social responsibility of the com-
pany .”Corporate Governance Best-Practice Principles 
for TSEC/GTSM Listed CompaniesCSR Committee
“Chunghwa Telecom CSR Committee” is chaired by the 
Chairman while the general manager serves as the dep-
uty-director. The “CSR Secretariat” is appointed as the 
dedicated window of contact. The committee is divided 
into the following six groups: Corporate Governance, 
Employee Care, Consumer Care, Environmental Sus-
tainability, Digital Opportunities and Corporate Volun-
teerism. The committee also collaborates with Chunghwa 
Telecom Foundation in various project promotions. 
CSR Committee Organizational ChartIn order to normalize our dialogue with all stakeholders and integrate CSR into our daily operations, 
a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was formed comprising of senior executives from vari-
ous departments in June 2006. The committee is responsible of planning strategies, setting goals 
and delegating tasks to the 6 taskforces.Corporate Social Responsibility
CSR Development EnhancementCSR Management Model: SMART
We listen and comprehend the voices and needs of stake -
holders, and take a step further to obtain information and 
evaluate our CSR performance. Following systematic 
information disclosure, we developed the “SMAR T” man-
agement model so that this report presents information in 
a clearer fashion. This way, the report can serve as a refer-
ence for future CSR promotions. Every chapter of the report 
is composed of five elements: Stakeholder , Management, 
Points to Address, Response and Target. CSR V ision4 Is
Based on our corporate philosophy: “focus on core busi-
nesses, value professionalism, enhance efficiency and 
prove heart-warming services, ” we strive for becoming the 
most valuable and reliable information and communication 
Technology service provider . With years of CSR practice, 
we created a unique CSR vision that covers various sus-
tainability-related issues.
Integrity Practice honesty-based management to reach 
the ultimate goal of elevating corporate value.
Innovation Facing the challenging environment and cli-
mate change with innovation to accomplish our mission 
of sustainable operation.
InsideCare for the inner needs of employees and cus-
tomers and continue all communications and care-giv -
ing.
Inclusiveness Create a society free of information bar-
riers by putting together the power of technology , soft-
ware and volunteers.  
Target Stakeholder
Response
AddressSMART Management Model
ManagementManagement
Chunghwa Telecom CSR Committee
Chunghwa Telecom
Foundation
Setting an
Overall Target
Review 
and LearningsReview 
and Learnings
Publication, 
Distribution and 
RealizationFollow-up and 
EvaluationPlanning 
ManagementContent
Planning
Report
ComposingConfirming the 
cutting angle
Practical 
ExecutionManagement 
ProcessReporting 
ProcessCorporate 
Governance 
GroupEmployee 
Care GroupConsumer 
Care GroupEnvironmental 
Sustainability 
GroupDigital 
Opportunities 
GroupCorporate 
Volunteerism 
GroupCSR SecretariatConsultants9
In 2009, Taiwan ’s efforts on CSR development had a major breakthrough. Taiwan Stock Exchange 
Co. (TWSE) and Gre Tai Securities Market (GTSM) established the “Corporate Social Responsibil -
ity Best Practice Principles for TWSE/GTSM Listed Companies ” serving as the basic principals for 
CSR.Reinforcing CSR Regulations
Analysis and Responses
on Current Situation
”Corporate Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles 
for TWSE/GTSM Listed Companies ” and GRI G3 comple -
ment each other . One takes the viewpoint of the manage -
ment process while the other of the reporting process. 
Since Chunghwa Telecom ’s 2008 CSR Report has already 
reached Application Level A, most of the regulations stated 
were already satisfied. Still, there is room for improvement. 
For example: 
Article 6 states that: “The board of directors of a TWSE/
GTSM-listed company shall exercise the due care of good 
administrators to urge the company to perform its corpo-
rate social responsibility initiatives, examine the results of 
the implementation thereof from time to time and continu -
ally make adjustments so as to ensure the thorough imple -
mentation of its corporate social responsibility policies. ” 
Article 7 states that “For the purpose of managing corpo-
rate social responsibility initiatives, TWSE/GTSM-listed 
companies are advised to establish an exclusively (or 
concurrently) dedicated unit to be in charge of proposing 
and enforcing the corporate social responsibility policies or 
systems of the company and to report on the same to the 
board of directors on a periodic basis. ”
Chunghwa Telecom has already set up a CSR Committee 
and a dedicated window of contact. In the future, a formal 
system will be in place for the Committee’s Secretariat to 
periodically report back to the Board regarding CSR-relat -
ed work process and directions of development.Sustainable Development
Training Program
The Environmental Education Act was passed by the Legis -
lative Yuan in May 2010 which made Taiwan one of the few 
nations in the world that promote environmental education 
at a legislative level. Article 19 is the one that is most related 
to us. It states that “Employees of organizations and pub-
licly-operated institutions should receive at least four hours 
of environmental education per year. The results should 
be reported back to the central administrative institution. ” 
Article 19 nicely responds to Article 15 on the ”Corporate 
Social Responsibility Best Practice Principles for TWSE/
GTSM Listed Companies ” which states that “TWSE/GTSM 
Listed Companies should establish a dedicated unit or as-
sign dedicated personnel for environment management to 
maintain the environment management system and should 
hold environment education courses for their managerial of-
ficers and other employees on a periodic basis. ” In regards 
of such articles, we set up plans for
All employees receive 4 hours annual training on sus-
tainable development.
Managers of all regions should receive special training in 
terms of external stakeholder communication and partici -
pation and performance evaluation. 1.
2.
“Corporate Social Responsibility Practice Best 
Principles for TWSE/GTSM Listed Companies ” is 
composed of 6 chapters with 31 articles. It aims at 
“to assist companies listed on the Taiwan Stock Ex-
change Corporation (“TWSE ”) and the GreT ai Secu -
rities Market (“GTSM ”) to fulfill their corporate social 
responsibility and to promote economic, social and 
environmental balance and sustainable develop -
ment. ”The Environmental Education Act consists of 26 
articles in total aiming at improving citizens ’ knowl -
edge, capability , attitude and values on environmen -
tal protection. This law will educate citizens, make 
them more aware of the environment and urge peo-
ple to take action towards sustainable developmentCorporate Social Responsibility Practice Best 
Principles for TWSE/GTSM Listed CompaniesThe Environmental Education ActManagement10
Employees
Internally , we used intranet to conduct a series of surveys to 
collect employees ’ opinions regarding CSR-related issues. 
The results turned out impressive:
The more satisfied employees are regarding a com-
pany ’s CSR performance, the more they identify them -
selves with the company .
The more satisfied employees are regarding informa -
tion disclosure, the more they identify themselves with 
the company .
When CSR helps promote the company ’s brand image, 
the more employees identify themselves with the com-
pany .
You feel satisfied about the performance of 
the company ’s efforts on promoting CSR.Agree
37.49 56.82
39.50 54.23
30.67 65.54
33.41 59.85HighlyAgree
You feel satisfied with the presentation of 
information regarding CSR by the company .
Chunghwa Telecom ’s performance on CSR 
is beneficial for enhancing the company ’s 
brand image.
How do you feel regarding “I am proud of 
being a Chunghwa Telecom employee. ”? Employee ’s View on CSR
Source: 2009 Employee CSR Cognition SurveyCustomers
The public has grown highly suspicious over how trustwor -
thy corporate brands are due to recent financial crisis and 
company scandals. We commissioned external financial 
experts to conduct researches on how Chunghwa Tele-
com’s efforts in carrying out CSR reﬂect on our brand value. 
Combining our profiting capability index, risk evaluation 
index and market value index, the research showed that 
our stock prices are more stable than others against market 
volatility and economic turmoil. Through integrating CSR 
into our daily operation, we performed well in many areas 
which show that introducing the concept of CSR into an 
enterprise is beneficial for stabilizing a company ’s financial 
performance.Corporate GovernanceIssue
Issue20.13
15.86
15.61Percentage
PercentageEnhancing Economic Development
Charity Activities
Health and Safety 31.98
21.22
20.57Educational Training
Labor-Management HarmonyThree CSR-related Issues that are Most 
Recognized by Employees
Three Employee-related Issues that are 
Most Recognized by EmployeesIdentifying and communicating with stakeholders is the foundation of CSR. We started to actively commu -
nicate with stakeholders since 2009 through surveys and interviews to collect internal and external opin-
ions. Stakeholders targeted include employees, customers and institutional investors. We hope to have a 
comprehensive understanding on the experience and expectations of different kinds of stakeholders so as 
to serve as reference for future action plans.Address CSR Survey on Stakeholders11
Social Concern
Operational Impact Low HighHigh
LowKey Issues Matrix
To increase objectivity , we conducted analysis on media reports, international standards and global telecommunication indus -
try benchmarks. At the same time, external opinion was sought which includes professional advice from the academia. After 
we assessed the impact of these issues on our financials, risk management and corporate reputation, final results were agreed 
on and disclosed in the CSR report. 
CSR Survey on Stakeholders ( →P.10)
Carbon Emission Disclosure and Climate Change-derived 
Risks ( →P.19)
eICT  Innovation ( →P.26)
ADOC 2.0 Project ( →P.28)
Telecommunication Green Buildings Initiative ( →P.36)
Green Procurement and Renewable Energy ( →P.37)
Career and Life Balance ( →P.45)
Rescue and Liability Telecommunications ( →P.52)
Digital Good Neighbors Projects ( →P.61)
Disaster Relief and Reconstruction after August 8th Flood 
(→P.66)
Online Schoolwork Assistance Project for Children in 
Disaster Areas ( →P.67)Key Issues Matrix
Communication and Opinion Exchange with Stake -
holders ( →P.12)
Industry Environment for Fair Competition ( →P.20)
Industry Chain Ef fect ( →P.29)
Eco-friendly Initiatives and Responsible Consump -
tion ( →P.38)
Health, Safety and Retirement Insurance ( →P.46)
Privacy Protection and Fraud Calls Countermea -
sures ( →P.54)
Environmental Health ( →P.55)
Electromagnetic W aves-related Policy Making 
Mechanism and Campaigns ( →P.56)
Telecommunications Populization Services 
(→P.62)
Charitable Telecommunication Services ( →P.68)CSR Key Information Disclosure ( →P.13)
CSR Key Performance Index ( →P.14)
Social Responsible Investments ( →P.21)
R&D Results Internationalization ( →P.30)
Telecommunications Supply Chain Manage -
ment ( →P.39)
Corporate V olunteer Services ( →P.47)
Innovative V alue-added Services ( →P.57)
Digital Literacy Enhancement ( →P.64)
Specifically Requested-Products Develop -
ment ( →P.69)
CSR Management Policy ( →P.8)
Reinforcing CSR Regulations ( →P.9)
Corporate Governance ( →P.16)
Regulation Compliance and Information Transparency ( →P.17)
Risk Management ( →P.18)
Innovation Efficiency Enhancement ( →P.24)
Extend Innovation Inclusiveness ( →P.25)
Greenhouse Gas Inventory and Electricity Consumption Manage -
ment( →P.32)
Environmental Sustainability Management System ( →P.34)
Human Rights Protection and Labor-Capital Relationship ( →P.43)
Talent Attracting and Cultivating ( →P.44)
Brand Management and Product Marketing ( →P.49)
Customer Service ( →P.50)
Feedbacks ( →P.51)
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation ( →P.60)
Social Contribution Management ( →P.66)4.15The Materiality Assessment Process was continued on 2009. “Social Concern ” and “Operational Impact ” 
were used as the main indexes of evaluation to prioritize key CSR issues and evaluate the tools used to 
tackle these issues.Address12
Communication and Opinion
Exchange with Stakeholders
Supervising Party (NCC, the
Legislative Yuan)Dedicated division/ Single Window
for CommunicationFair Competition
Communication Management
Scheduled and nonscheduled information survey
Suppliers ’ ConferenceQuality of
Service Charges
Public W elfare Activities
Care for the disadvantaged
Industry Development
Fair CompetitionInvestors (Shareholders, 
Institutional Investors)Financial status & 
Business development
Customers ( Individuals, 
Corporate Customers)Customer Service Hotline/
Project Manager
Partners (Suppliers,
Contractors)Communication of 
CSR Policies
Employees (Current employees, 
family of employees)The Chunghwa Telecom W eb
2.0 Interactive Platform
Communication with communities
Dedicated divisions
Taiwan Telecommunication Industry 
Development Association(TTIDA)Welfare/ Salary
Performance Management System 
Personnel Development
Educational TrainingChunghwa Telecom ’s Official W ebsite
Annual Reports
Scheduled and nonscheduled reports
Brand Image
Care for the disadvantaged
Charges
Electromagnetic W avesCommunities/NPOs/NGOs
Media/ General Public
Industry PeersIssue Communication ChannelStakeholder Engagement 4.16
World Business Council for Sus -
tainable Development
Chunghwa Telecom joined the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD) in 2006. WBCSD is 
the world’s most influential business alliance concerning 
sustainable development and CSR which has many expe -
riences worth us studying. In 2009, we signed the WBCSD 
Manifesto for Energy Efficiency in Buildings(EEB).
The World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD): http://www .wbcsd.org/Communication with International En -
vironmental Protection Organizations
In September 2009, we visited various environmental pro-
tection organizations in UK to learn from advanced enter -
prises and organizations ’ experiences and share our per-
formance and results on CSR promotion.
Chunghwa Telecom was also invited to join the “The 
Prince ’s Mayday Network, ” the largest anti-climate change 
corporate organization with over 3,027 British corporations 
as members. We already received the official 2010 May 
Day logo and committed to reduce carbon emission, record 
and respond to climate change tracks, take part in industrial 
initiatives and play out our inﬂuence on climate change is-
sues along with large British enterprises.Carbon Trust: An independent institution set up by 
the British Government aiming at creating low carbon 
economy. From them, we learned the most advanced 
energy saving and carbon reduction standards and 
specifications, and discussed future long-term strate-
gies together .
Business in the Community (BITC):Dedicated institu-
tion to promote corporate engagement to charity proj-
ects. This visit enabled us to exchange opinions with 
BITC members and brainstorm on how to enhance 
social development with our initial power .Chunghwa Telecom values the opinions of all stakeholders. We proactively communicate with them to 
timely respond to their needs. We also exchange opinions with international advance organizations to 
widen our eyes to more knowledge regarding CSR and sustainable development. Through collaboration 
projects, our commitment is now much more inﬂuential than before.Response
 CSR Survey on Stakeholders13
CSR Key Information Disclosure 
CSR Committee CSR Motion Strategies
Satellite Mobile Phone SystemRisk Management StructureOrganization Chart of 
Chunghwa Telecom Board of Directors
Brand Management Structure Flowchart for Innovative Proposals ContestFlowchart for CSR Information
Feedback MechanismSMAR T Management Model
SaaS CRM ServiceSupply Chain Management Methods
Cloud Computing: hiCloud CaaS ServiceTelecommunication Network Repair Policy
MOEACA  Smart Card 
and Card Issuing SystemTelecommunication Service Negative 
Impact Reduction Policy
Renewable Energy 
Telecommunications Application System
Intelligent & Mobilized Citizen Self Care Project
Rainfall Recycling
Energy-saving Auditorium
Eco-compliant Control Room
Retiree Life-long Study
hiCare(Internet Porno Gatekeeper)P08 P08
P26P18P16
P49 P24P21P08
P26P39
P26P52
P27P55
P27
P27
P34
P36
P36
P46
P55Hami Bookstore
hifree
i Care
Smart Phone Mobil Office 
Computer Class for New migrants
Reading before using the Internet
Tribal Craftsmanship ClassroomP57
P57
P57
P57
P61
P63
P66
Environment and Utilities 
Establishment for e-tutor program P67
Unlimited Dreams to Shine in the W orld
Click Taiwan
Puncar Action!P69
P70
P70In order to let the public have a better understanding on our CSR management performance, organiza -
tional, management policies and case studies are included in this report. Organizational Index  refers 
to the relevant organizations we have working on CSR. Policy Index   refers to the guidelines of CSR-
related works. Case Index    are examples of best practices.Target14
CSR Key Performance Index
Corporate Governance Principles
Environmental Education Act
Labor Union LawRegulations on Code of Conducts
UN Global Compact 
Internalization of 
the Two Treaties (on human rights)
Regulations on training and education
Volunteer Service Act
NCC policies on service popularization
2007
21.51 22.11 22.48
656 695 709
---- 52 55
---- ---- 1,023
---- ---- 100
---- 247,516 1,556,467---- ---- 41,979
3.81 3.66 3.732009 2008 Page No. Description
First time to be listed as 
an index item
First time to be listed as 
an index item
First time to be listed as 
an index itemPercentage of female supervisors
Number of employees with
disabilities 
Applications for
maternity leave (ppl.)
Customer satisfaction: regular 
customers (5 as highest score)
Computer lessons provided in 
remote areas (hours)
Number of remote area residents that 
passed the TQC certification (ppl.)
Amount of donation for community 
investment (thousand NTD) Corporate volunteer service hoursP08
P09
P43
P42
P42
P45
P51
P61
P61
P65P47P17
P19
P36
P42
P43
P43
P44
P47
P62First telecom service provider
to conduct CSR survey on employees P10
First telecom service provider
to conduct CSR survey on institutional investors P21
First telecom service provider to conduct 
supply chain management P38
Only one telecom service provider that is equipped with a labor 
union and that had signed a group agreement with its employees P43
Mobile telecommunication relief ﬂeet P52Telecom service provider 
with highest R&D budget: 3.2 billion P24
First telecom service provider to set up 
an energy consumption target: 12% reduction P33
Company with the highest amount of expenditure on green pro -
curement within the service industry: 206 million P35
Telecom service provider with the highest 
number of cell phones recycled: 39,807 P37Target
Since we started to enforce CSR in 2006, various performance indexes were accumulated and are pre-
sented on this report by different symbols. Compliant Index    stand for the CSR works that we performed 
in compliance with relevant regulations. Benchmark Index    refer to those items on which we set a bench -
mark for others to follow while Management Index     refers to the items on which performance manage -
ment is still conducted.     represents the awards we won on such field.
Risks and opportunities regarding
regulations on climate change
WBCSD Manifesto for Energy Efficiency in 
Buildings (EEB)
Physically and Mentally
Disabled Rights Safeguard Law15
P16
P19
P21In this world, only transparency 
brings us trust.
Becoming the benchmark en -
terprise on local and overseas 
social responsible investment.Value 
     Integration
investors/shareholders, employees, 
        government, industry peers
  
Index Category2008
Commitment2009
Performance2010
TargetPage
Regulations on Code of Conducts
Risks and opportunities regarding
regulations on climate Change
First telecom service provider to conduct 
CSR survey on institutional investors 
Information Transparency and Disclosure Ranked A+ in Securities & Futures Institute in Taiwan
“twAAA/twA-1 ” on long/short-term issuer credit ranking by Taiwan Ratings Corporation
“Internal Audit Quality Assessment Certificate ” by The Institute of Internal Auditors Taiwan
“Trusted Brand-Network Service Provider: Platinum Award ” by Reader ’s Digest
“Best Financial Disclosure Award ” by IR Global Rankingc
Finance AsiaMost Committed to a Strong Dividend Policy , “Asia’s Best Companies ”, “Best Managed Com -
pany ”, “Best Corporate Governance ”
Long-term credit “AA” rating by Standard & Poor ’s  Execution
needed
Execution
neededCompliance 
needed Continued 
compliance 
Continued 
evaluation
Continued 
executionEnforced
EnforcedEnforced
investorsshareholders,
employees, government, 
industry peersCorporate Governance
Regulation Compliance and 
Information T ransparency 
Risk management Carbon Disclosure andCli -
mate Change-derived RisksIndustrial Environment of 
Fair CompetitionSocially Responsible 
InvestmentVoices
Commitment16
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors
Our Board is currently comprised of 13 directors, including 
3 independent directors. To ensure the diversity of mem -
bers, there are one female director , one independent fe-
male director , and one labor director .  We also have 3 su-
pervisors, and two of them are female.  
To enforce the Board ’s supervising and management func-
tions, three functional committees are in place to take care 
of strategy , audit and compensation. 
Independent directors provide objective opinion according 
to their expertise to assist the Board in making the best 
decisions. To protect directors and supervisors from being 
held personally liable for or suffering any financial loss on a 
litigated event as a result of performing their duties, Chun -
ghwa Telecom ensures that they are covered by indemnity 
insurance. 
Ministry of Transportation and Communications is Chungh -
wa Telecom ’s largest shareholder with the company Chair -
man and President acting as the government ’s represen -
tatives. The representatives are responsible for enforcing 
policies and ensure social responsibilities are fulfilled. Each 
year, they need to be evaluated by the Ministry according 
to “Selection, management and evaluation principles on pri-
vate enterprise and juridical person institution representa -
tives assigned by the Ministry of Transportation and Com -
munications. ” 
In terms of the management of the Chairman, President 
and share-holding representatives appointed to compa -
nies we invested, a management mechanism known as the 
“Selection, management and evaluation principles on busi-
ness representatives and share-holding representatives 
assigned by Chunghwa Telecom ” is in place for evaluation 
and performance assessment.Internal Audit
Internal audit is the core of internal control and corporate 
governance. To assess IA’s conformance to the IIA’s Inter-
national Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal 
Auditing (Standards), we requested the Institute to conduct 
a quality assessment (QA) of Internal Audit(IA) in 2009. Af-
ter over a month ’s data collecting and document review -
ing, added with a two-week field research and interviews, a 
team of senior quality assess experts from IIA reported that 
“IA generally conforms to the IIA’s Standards and Code of 
Ethics. ” It was an excellent rating, and meaned that our IA 
was recognized as the highest level.
Director and supervi-
sor’s remuneration; re-
muneration of the Chair -
man, Vice Chairman, 
CEO, and President; 
other matters delegated 
by the Board of Direc-
tors. 
Domestic 
Financial Institutions
Other Domestic 
Institutional InvestorsDomestic 
Individual InvestorsForeign Institutions
and Individual 
Investors GovernmentChunghwa Telecom 
Board of Directors
Compensation 
CommitteeAudit
CommitteeStrategy
Committee3 Supervisors
Fair presentation of the 
Corporation’s financial 
statements; appoint-
ment/dismissal of inde-
pendent accountants 
and overseeing their 
independence and 
performance; effective 
implementation of the 
Corporation’s internal 
control system; compli-
ance with regulatory 
requirements; manage-
ment of the Corpora-
tion’s existing or poten-
tial risks.Budget listing and re-
viewing; assessment of 
capital increase/reduc-
tion; financial forecasts 
listing and reviewing, 
matters related to new 
investments or capital 
increase/deduction or 
removal of investee 
companies; review on 
the acquirement and 
return business license; 
review on adjustments 
made to branches or 
service stations; review 
of mid-term and long-
term development plans. Organizational Chart of the Chunghwa
Telecom Board of Directors
Shareholder Composition 2.6Chunghwa Telecom believes that healthy corporate governance, while being the foundation to sustain -
able development, is necessary to satisfy customers ’ and the society ’s expectations.  “Code of Corporate 
Governance for Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd.” states the official governance principles which include: 
establish an effective corporate governance structure, ensure shareholders ’ rights, enforce responsibilities 
and liabilities of the directorate board, bring out supervisors ’ functions, respect the rights of stakeholders 
and increase information transparency .Management
36.16%
12.97%
1.34%11.87%37.67%17
Regulation Compliance and 
Information T ransparency
Information Disclosure
Being a listed company in Taiwan and having our ADRs 
traded on the New York Stock Exchange requires us to be 
in compliance with all domestic and overseas regulations 
regarding information disclosure. These regulations in-
clude setting up a spokesperson system, publish major an-
nouncement and information as required in a timely manner 
and ensure the accuracy and completeness of information 
published on the corporate website. All issues of interest to 
investors should be made publicly available simultaneously 
in Taiwan and overseas in both Chinese and English to offer 
investors complete and real-time financial and operational 
information of the company . By doing so, we enhance the 
information ’s degree of transparency and accuracy for in-
vestors to base their decision upon, strengthen investors ’ 
confidence in us and enhance corporate value to benefit 
both parties.Code of Conduct
Our Code of Ethics outlines the ethical standards and re-
sponsibilities required of directors, supervisors, executive 
officers and all employees while engaging in business prac-
tices. This applies to individual employees and groups and 
the corporation when facing the public and all stakeholders. 
An employee report hotline is also in place for all employees 
to express their opinions under a secure and confidential 
mechanism.
We demand our employees to strictly abide by the code of 
ethics and shall never , under any circumstances, compro -
mise to achieve a specific purpose. The goal is to ensure 
compliance of our business practices with legal require -
ments and social ethical standards to prevent any miscon -
duct. The code of ethics is now a part of our corporate train-
ing programs for new employees. Each employee receives 
an annual evaluation and the results are considered as part 
of their performance.
In 2009, 12 violations were reported which involved 13 per-
sons. Besides the needed punishment, review and analysis 
were completed and the Corporation is still working hard on 
further education and promotion.Business Principles
To elevate our business quality and enable consumers to 
have more faith in us, Business Principles were laid out 
firmly to ensure all our acts are in compliance with the laws 
and regulations of administrative organizations. High-level 
managers ’ performance is also evaluated in this regard to 
make sure all employees work together to maintain reputa -
tion and corporate image. Chunghwa Telecom Corporate Code of Ethics
Chunghwa Telecom Corporate Principles on V iolation 
Cases 
Chunghwa Telecom Corporate Principles on Business 
Secrets Keeping
Chunghwa Telecom Corporate Human Resource 
Department: Employees Complaints Hotline Regulations on Code of Conduct
Business malpractice cases and penalties
Amount of Penalty 
(Thousand of NTD)
Case of Malprac -
tice (No. of Case )2007
430
11184 268
9 52008 20094.8
PR7Chunghwa Telecom is dedicated to act in compliance with regulations within and outside the nation to im-
prove the degree of transparency and accuracy of all information disclosed. This can not only strengthen 
investors ’ confidence in us and increase corporate value but also reduce our financing costs thus reaching 
the goal of creating a win-win situation for both the corporation and the investors. As a result, we estab -
lished the “Chunghwa Telecom Code of Ethics ” as the fundamental principle of daily operations for all 
employees and our service providers to follow . Management18
Risk Management
Risk Analysis and Response Mechanism
The Regulations clearly set out the framework and process of risk management operations as well as the authorities and re-
sponsibilities assigned to the respective departments. The Regulations require that we carry out risk management of various 
plans of Chunghwa Telecom and subsidiaries including the med-term and long-term development projects, the annual busi-
ness and contingency plans, new implementation projects and business execution reporting according to actual requirements. 
Furthermore, the Regulations also require us to conduct risk analysis, systemized records and follow-up management when 
appropriate.
Currently we adopt a Risk Map as our main evaluation tool which includes statutory risks, risks of network operation, risks of 
market competition and risks of financial operation. At the same time, we continuously conduct sensitivity analysis and pres-
sure testing around the company . Our goal is to bring the losses to a minimum through risk acceptance, risk transfer , risk miti-
gation and risk avoidance. 
After the ﬂood on August 8th, 2009, “climate change ” was officially included in our “performance and risk management ” 
evaluation system. Significant risks are all listed in Chunghwa Telecom ’s annual operation plan and are subject to target 
monitoring and performance evaluation for constant verification and feedbacks.ࠬᎈ၍ଣଡ଼ᔌݖ࿴
Authority and Responsibilities Organization Name
Board of Directors
(including Audit and Strategy Committees)
High Level Management 
(Chief Executive Officer , President, V ice President)
Headquarters 
(The Corporate Planning Department takes on the 
duties of  Executive Secretary) 
Subordinate BranchesEstablish Risk Management Policies, Frameworks, and Culture
Ensure the Ef fectiveness of Risk Management Mechanisms and 
Proceed with Resource Allocation1. 
2. 
1. 
2.
3.
4. Compile Implemented Results of Risk Management Activities
Assist and Supervise Risk Management Activities in Subordinate 
Branches
Decide Risk Types based on Environmental Changes and Establish 
Risk Undertaking
Proceed with Efficiency Assessment and Coordination after Risk 
Adjustments1. 
2. Execute Board of Directors Risk Management Decision-Making
Coordinate with Inter- Departmental Risk Management Interac -
tion and Communication
1. 
2. Execute Risk Management Activities
Execute Self-Evaluation of Risk Management and Control ActivitiesRisk Management ResponsibilitiesRisk management is an issue at the core of a corporation ’s operation. For the purpose of enhancing 
our responsible operations, identifying and controlling risk events, we have put in place the “Chunghwa 
Telecom Risk Management Regulations ” (the “Regulations ” henceforth) for our employees to refer to in 
performing their duties. The President is appointed as the person in charge for any event involving risk 
and crisis management. He is required to report back to the Board of Directors concerning those events.Management19
While discussing actual risks, we continue to follow up on 
regulations related to climate change and evaluate the pos-
sible risks they might cause us. When appropriate, they are 
included in our risk evaluation system for further manage -
ment. By responding to regulation changes early , we not 
only reduce the operational risks but also strengthen our 
image as a green benchmark corporation. 
Risks and opportunities regarding
regulations on climate ChangeOf all the climate abnormalities, torrential rain in a short 
period of time makes the largest impact to Taiwan and 
may badly damage central office and telecommunica -
tion facilities. We need a large amount of budget for pre-
caution plans and disaster relief activities.
Chunghwa Telecom employs over 20 thousand people 
working in all around Taiwan. Contagious diseases that 
are caused by climate change might inﬂuence our staffs’ 
daily operations and services.
In a long term, temperature increasing and sea level 
rising might significantly inﬂuence central office opera -
tion and manpower distribution. Extra manpower and 
resources for emergency repairs, emergency power 
supply in the cases of power failure and compensation 
for consumers are all possible causing for additional op-
erational costs.Renewable energy devel -
opment fund merged into 
electricity bills is causing 
an increase in electricity 
costs  
The government audits 
on the energy efficiency 
of corporations which 
might increase our costs 
in facilities improvement 
and maintenance
Limiting the amount of 
greenhouse gas emitted 
by the telecom industry. 
This might increase fu-
ture carbon emission cap 
and trade costs. EC2aCarbon Disclosure and Climate 
Change-derived Risks
Actual Risks Statutory Risks
In group discussions, the potential risks regarding climate 
change that were raised include “greenhouse emission 
causing a raise in temperature which leads to higher cen-
tral office costs, ” “climate change leading to abnormalities 
increasing the possibility of potential damages on central 
office by natural disasters, ” “revenue loses due to commu -
nication problems ” and “insurance costs for risk transfer .” 
Typhoon Morakot was the perfect proof of those four risks 
raised.
Renewable 
Energy 
Development 
Regulation
Energy 
Management 
Law
Green -
house Gas 
Reduction 
Bill (under 
discussion)
Energy Tax 
(under 
discussion)Regulation Risks Opportunities
Provides us an op-
portunity to evaluate 
the possibilities of 
forestation or renew-
able energy generating 
facilities establishment 
on unused non-urban 
areas. 
Use our ICT and tele-
communication exper-
tise to assist corpora-
tion in achieving carbon 
reduction and energy 
saving.
Develop methods for 
large capacity renew-
able energy generating. 
Electricity generated 
can be used by our 
company or sold to 
customers.
Beneficial for ITS/Tele-
matics development.
As a response to the 
current trends of low-
carbon communities 
and low-carbon cities, 
this can be beneficial 
for the promotion and 
marketing of intelligent 
energy-saving services.
By responding to the 
needs in energy-saving 
appliances household, 
we can enjoy further 
earnings through ener-
gy-saving. 
LED lighting develop-
ment.
Use our ICT and tele-
communication exper-
tise to work with other 
electricity providers 
and to create a Smart 
Grid.In response to the 2009 Carbon Disclosure Project survey results, we organized a “World Cafe ” (see Note) 
in May within the company to encourage discussions. Staffs from various departments were invited to 
discuss the risks and opportunities climate change might bring to Chunghwa Telecom.
(Note: World Café is a conversational process that’s been widely popular in the recent years. This process 
can encourage dialogues, enhance knowledge sharing and even find people new initiatives.)Address20
Supervising Institutions
Any changes in policies or regulations might pose an inﬂu-
ence on our operational result. That is why we closely moni -
tor every move of the National Communications Commis -
sion (NCC) which oversees all our activities. For example, 
starting in 2007, NCC has been lowering the X value for 
three consecutive years leading to an over 14% reduction 
on mobile phone service charges and an over 19% reduc -
tion in broadband service charges. Without any doubts, we 
are happy to see that broadband is more and more popular 
around the nation and we are glad to help in minimizing the 
digital gap in our society . While striving for satisfying cus-
tomers ’ needs for high-speed broadband, we still believe 
that charges should be fixed according to the market. 
Facing the said operational impacts, besides keep develop -
ing comprehensive value-added services to increase reve-
nue, we also pay close attention to the following regulation/
policies changes and propose countermeasures to tackle 
them:Peer Relationship
In a highly competitive market, service providers ’ profits are 
limited which lead to a lot of concerns regarding the “last 
mile” from peers and the public. The last mile was released 
in 2004. In 2006, it was announced as a bottleneck mecha -
nism according to which it last mile circuits are leased to 
other fixed network providers under historical cost and the 
number of cores are used as the basis for cost allocation. 
Under the prizing regulations, the last mile charge we ask 
for is the lowest in the world (126 NTD/month). This is about 
30%~50% of the price asked for in Japan. It is evident that 
the price we charge is already the lowest we can af ford to. 
In April 2009, our failure in reaching an agreement on the 
networking charges with other service providers such as 
TFN raised a lot of concern. To settle this dispute, we limited 
parts of TFN’s bandwidth with consideration for customers ’ 
interests.  
In August of the same year, NCC finally stated that the new 
listed price for connection charges should be1 Mbps/1,480 
NTD. 
To provide customers with good communication quality and 
better services, added with the fact that most of our facili-
ties are reaching their retirement age, we continue to put in 
tens of billions of construction and maintenance funds each 
year for last mile infrastructure. We sincerely hope to create 
a sane and healthy competition environment along with our 
peers in the industry to provide customers with diversified 
and high quality services.Actively participate and provide suggestions in the 
amendment process  of the Telecommunication Law, 
the Cable Radio and Television Law, Broadcasting and 
Television Law , and Satellite Broadcasting Law .
Our GSM 9001800 License are due to expire on 2012
2013. W e will work harder for a license extension.
NCC is expected to release 7 licenses for Second SFN 
of Digital Terrestrial TV in 201 1.
Domestic WiMAX service providers will gradually start 
operating in 2010. Apart from expanding the mobile net-
work coverage and quality , we will speed up the promo -
tion of Fiber to the Building (FTTB) services.Under the inﬂuence of the financial crisis, the domestic economy did not perform well in 2009. Added with the overﬂow of suppliers in the 
traditional telecom market and the supervising institutions controlling service charges through administrative means, the whole industry 
was facing fierce challenges from the environment. Under intense competition, peers started to become doubtful of our market position. 
While ensuring the rights of our customers and shareholders, we will continue to communicate with supervising organizations and peer 
service providers.Response Industrial Environment of Fair Competition21
SRI Surveys
We started to reply the two important Socially Responsible 
Investment surveys that are known around the world since 
2008 and 2009: Dow Jones sustainability Indexes (DJSI) 
and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We firmly believe 
that by replying surveys from high authority institutions, we 
can enhance the transparency of information disclosure 
and encourage CSR management within the company .
On the other hand, even though Socially Responsible 
Investment is at its early stages in Taiwan, we already 
started to conduct CSR surveys on our global institutional 
investors to find out their expectations towards us.  
Institutional Investors CSR 
Engagement 
We take the initiative to send out online questionnaire to lo-
cal and overseas institutional investors to understand their 
views on CSR and SRI. This also shows our determination 
and performance in practicing CSR. The overall return rate 
was lower than expected but from the returned question -
naires, we still managed to find some SRI trends.
When making investment decisions, some institu-
tional investors take whether a company realizes 
its CSR into consideration.
Some questionnaires indicated that “corporate 
governance” and “human resource development” 
are important when evaluating a company’s per-
formance. Some even take “carbon management” 
into consideration.
Some institutional investors showed knowledge 
and applauded us for our ef forts on CSR.First telecom service provider to conduct CSR 
survey on institutional investors CSR Information Feedback MechanismInvestors Relationship
In order to enable our investors to have a better idea of 
our management strategies and operational performance, 
quarterly meetings are hold and high level managers can 
take the opportunity of non-deal road shows for overseas 
investors to have face to face communication with our 
institutional investors. Apart from the above, we update fi-
nancial and business information on our website in a timely 
manner . At the same time, news releases and importance 
notices regarding the company’s development are also 
posted on the website for better information transparency .In 2009, along the global trends in Socially Responsible Investment (SRI), the four major government 
funds such as the Labor Pension Fund and the Labor Insurance Fund decided to include a company’s 
CSR performance into their decision making process for fund investment. In view of this, we will continue 
to communicate with investors and shareholders to reach our ultimate goal of enhancing corporate value.Target Socially Responsible Investment
External Stakeholders/ 
Organizations
CSR Information Acquiring 
CSR Secretariat as the Main 
Contac Window
Kick Of f Meeting
Hosted by CSR 
Committee Members
6 working groups and relevant 
departments representatives are 
to attend
Surveys are filled by each 
responsible group
The CSR Secretariat organizes 
the results, provides feedback, 
conduct follow-ups and responds 
to requests.22In the highly competitive telecommunications business environment, if the enterprise 
does not commence timely action on innovation , it will not only affect the staff loyalty 
and the consumer perception of the enterprise but also impact the long-term value.
In response to the forward-looking long-term development of innovation, Chunghwa 
Telecom not only improves the efficiency of its R&D resource, but also enhances the 
synergy with the external R&D institutions to actively improve the processes and prod-
uct innovation for the better of the society and the environment.
To cope with climate change is an external drive for innovation, Chunghwa Telecom 
in recent years focus its innovation on technology in order to extend its new market 
positioning, and to reduce business risks and operating costs.  In addition, Chunghwa 
Telecom follows the laws and regulations to enhance reputation and legitimacy of the 
practice for enterprises to increase new market opportunities, expand product diversity , 
and enhance brand value and reputation23
Through innovation, the future 
of human beings can be better
Becoming the benchmark cor -
poration in innovation in the 
countryInnovation
Investors/ shareholders, government, 
                    business partners, global environment
P24Index Category2008
Commitment2009
Implementation2010
TargetPage
Have the highest R&D-revenue ratio 
in the Telecom Service industryTo be 
reachedremain
leading3.2 billion 
NTD
Ministry of Economic Affairs “Industrial Technology Advancement Award-Outstanding Innovation 
Award ”
Ministry of Economic Affairs “National Invention and Creation Award-Contribution Award ”
Bureau of Standards, Metrology & Inspection (M.O.E.A.) “10th National Standardization Award 
-Company Standardization Award ”
“7th Golden Map Award-Best Application System ”-digital duty control and management system for 
the Police Department
Cite Publishing “Top Ten Science & Technology Award – Golden Award in Annual Product Innova -
tion, Golden Award in Mobile Communications ”
“2009 IT Month: Outstanding INFO Application and Product Award ” and “2009 Linux Golden Pen-
guin Award ”-Open Telematics service platform-InfoQ
“2009 TM Forum Best Practices Award-service provider ”-NGOSS Evolution Project 
Elevating innovation ’s 
efﬁciency
Extension of Innovation
engagementeICT Innovation
ADOC 2.0 ProjectSupply Chain Manage -
mentInternationalization of 
R&D ResultsInvestors/ shareholders, 
government, business 
partners, global environ -
mentVoices
Commitment24
Elevating Innovation ’s Efﬁciency
Understanding the trends in the industry and performing innovation and R&D are the driving forces for 
business growth. Even though we were facing great challenges from the downturn of the global finance 
in 2009, we still invested close to 3.2 billion NTD, the same amount as 2008, on R&D for continuous in-
novation workﬂow improvement. The investment accounted for 1.71% of the company ’s revenue of the 
year. Our R&D scale was the largest among our peers in Taiwan.Management
Enhance the Efﬁciency of 
R&D Resources 
Enhance Joint Innovation with 
External ForcesInnovation that Beneﬁts the 
Society and the Environment
We strive to improve the efficiency of our R&D resource 
and to maintain the quality of our R&D system’s. Apart 
from setting up the Quality Promotion Working Group (QP), 
Quality Assurance Center (QAC) and Engineering Process 
Group (EPG) under the Chunghwa Telecom Telecommuni -
cation Laboratories (CHTTL), we also introduced interna-
tional regulations and organizational audit systems such as 
ISO quality management system, CMMI(Capability Matu-
rity Model Integration)-based Project Management System 
(CPMS), several R&D process improvement activities for 
standardization. All these efforts are to enable high level 
management to manage audit activities, enhance their 
project management capability, improve products quality, 
fine-tune R&D quality and raise employees ’ quality aware -
ness.
To efficiently and actively integrate the resources from 
CHTTL  and our operational units and to grasp every busi-
ness opportunity , the Laboratories have set up service sta-
tions both in Taipei and Kaohsiung to bring the collective 
power of R&D and marketing to a full play .
We were the pioneers to venture to the Long Term Evolu -
tion (LTE): 4G. We developed a “LTE Trial Network ” along 
with Ericsson which will enable Taiwan to keep its competi -
tiveness during ICT industry’s transformation to the next 
generation of mobile broadband services.
In November 2009, we singed a Cloud Computing Stra-
tegic Alliance MOU with Microsoft. In the future, we will 
collaborate with each other regarding cloud computing 
services and facilities and software applications at the user 
end. We hope that this new operation model can open up 
more cloud computing-based business opportunities for 
both companies.
In terms of Smart Grid Technology, Chunghwa Telecom 
plans to have the 23,000 users of the industrial high volt-
age (11000 V) whose usage accounts  for 50% of the total 
electricityin Taiwan completed the switching to Smart Me-
ter by 2012. To achieve this goal, we are currently working 
with Tatung Co. to develop Smart Meters. Tatung Co. is in 
charge of the development of the hardware whilewe focus 
on the the development of wireless data transmission. 
Smart Meters are currently being tested in small areas. It 
is our desire to continue being the pioneer and the leader 
in the field of Smart Grid for the future.Innovative products and services that focus on the environ -
mental protection and the social issues-solving will be cru-
cial  to a companyto compete globally in the future. As the 
leader of the industry bearing a mission on CSR, we already 
made environmental and social innovation the core mission 
of our future R&D strategies. We will invest our resources 
in a well-planned matter so as to benefit the society , the 
environment and the company .
Flowchart for Innovative Proposal Contest 
Preliminary
RewardProposal
Denied 
N
Recommendation 
denied
Award denied
EndReceived by the 
Planning Office
Patent application 
delivered to the 
Patent Office
Patent Searching
Internal preliminary 
examination 
Approved
Award Granted
Recommend for HQ ’s 
2nd round evaluation
Assistance provided 
for online preliminary 
evaluation on Innova -
tion W ebsite  Recommendation 
by unit
Recommendation 
by unitBriefing for the
Innovative Proposal 
Presentation  Advanced
Reward25
Extension of Innovation 
Engagement
Chunghwa T elecom Application 
ContestInternal Employee Business 
Starting
In 2003, we started to host the “Telecommunications Value-
adding Application Contest ” for college students. It is now 
seen as the Oscar Award in the telecommunication field. 
Every year, the contest attracts more than 2000 teams to 
participate. Upon to the 7th year (2009), the total number of 
participants has already exceeded 17,000.
The 2009 Telecommunications Value-adding Application 
Contest was divided into 5 groups: “Broadband Value-
adding Group ”, “3G Mobile Life Application Group ”, “3G 
Campus Mobile Application Group ”, “Fixed-network Value-
adding Group ” and “ICT Application Group ”. We took this 
opportunity to recruit the talents from participating teams to 
join us in our R&D branches and CHTTL.
In the future, we will continue to tie the topic of the con-
test closely to our businesses and continue to invite more 
and more students with different backgrounds to participate 
the contests. For example, in 2010, we plan to add another 
group, “Integrated Marketing Group ” for business school 
students.
In addition to educational training, we also encourage our 
employees to start their businesses within the company. 
Currently, Chunghwa Leading Photonics Tech (CLPT) 
has been evaluated and approved internally to carry our 
enterprise incubation under CHTTL. 
The team utilizes CHTTL’s Optical Transceiver Module 
manufacturing facilities to develop a new generation of 
Short-wave Infrared Imaging Module while at the same 
time devotes itself to enhance the technologies for the 
industry. So far, products are on a trial sale to European 
nations and the team has been working with European 
equipment manufacturers to develop environmental pro-
tection-related applications such as solar panel crack 
inspection or waste classification inspection.  At the mo-
ment, the team is seeking investments from relevant in-
dustries in hope to bring theR&D results to life as a prod-
uct and to truly accomplish the value-adding application 
on technology and service.Facing the constant change of telecommunication applications, diversified life experiences are the source 
of innovation. In addition to our own R&D departments and external technological partners, we welcome 
college students and everyone in the company to engage R&D activities and offerR&D positions and op-
portunity to start-up new business internally  to bring R&D results to a full play .Management26
CTCommunication T echnology
Lately , we reached the following three kinds of achieve -
ments in CT  R&D:
1.
2.
3.Full integration of wireless landline and broadband inter-
net access system. Our goal is to provide broadband ac-
cess to ever village.
Improvement of the service quality of wired/wireless 
communication systems.
Introduction and establishment of the mobile satellite 
system.IInformation T echnology
CLOUD COMPUTING
Mobile Satellite SystemSaaS Customer Relationship Management 
(CRM) Service
hiCloud CaaS ServiceIn response to the Ministry of the Interior ’s policies of 
establishing a rescue and disaster relief mobile satel -
lite system, and to solve the communication difficul-
ties in rural areas, at sea, in mountain areas or disas -
ter areas, we introduced the famous Thuraya satellite 
communications system to Taiwan. Via satellite com-
munication, positioning technologies and internet, we 
can provide our services to every corner of the island.
hiCloud CaaS (Computing as a Service) is a brand 
new cloud computing service that we developed. 
Such service provides customers with a virtual 
computing environment that can be operated on 
various operation systems (Windows, Linux, etc). 
Customers can enjoy the safest, most stable and 
most reliable internet environment. Apart from that, 
customers can integrate their customized applica-
tion settings and programs to perform the services 
they need.Through SaaSSoftware as a Service, we enable 
SMEs to perform CRM using cloud computing under 
a limited budget and help them to enhance their op-
erational value. Besides providing enterprises with a 
full range of CRM applications, customers can apply 
for value-adding services such as MMS, eDM or fax 
application. This way, SMEs can lower their IT cost 
and elevate their operational efficiency .As the leader of the Alliance of Cloud Computing Technolo -
gies and Applications (ACCT A), we already launched vari-
ous innovative services in cloud computing.
eICT is the perfect demonstration of our innovative vision. Looking into the future development of the 
ICT industry , we know that in-depth R&D and new applications are not enough. All the technology and 
development will be tightly connected to sustainable operation and corporate responsibility. Therefore, 
we revisited our innovative R&D missions and laid down three Es with communication technology as the 
foundation and information technology for the path of development. The three Es are as follows.
1.
2.
3.Energy: Use renewable energy and reduce energy consumption.
Environment: Reduce the amount of resource used and monitor changes in our environment.
Empower: Care for the disadvantaged groups and provide assistance to social development.Address eICT Innovation27
Environment
Saving Energy
Continuously utilizing our core expertise in telecommunica -
tion technology , we developed various innovative energy-
saving and carbon-reducing products. Internally , we can 
effectively reduce the amount of energy consumed while 
externally , we can provide customers with a complete range 
of energy-saving products and services. We are fully committed to innovative R&D in communica-
tion networks. Through outstanding R&D capability and 
our expertises in communications and network, we have 
developed many resource-efficient products that reduces 
burden on the environment.
Industry and Business Certiﬁcation Smart 
Cards and Card Issuing System of MOEA
To help promote ICT services, we have developed a 
new generation of Hi-COS 2048 bits Smart Card sys-
tem. The system has already passed all inspections by 
the Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA) in December 
2009. In January 2010, the Distributed Card Issuing 
System was brought online and started its operation. 
In 2009, we held 100% market share in Industry and 
Business Certificate and expect to issue one million 
certificates  by the end of 2010. Looking forward, we 
anticipate to see more than  130 million transactions 
completed through this service with a large saving on 
paper .
Ministry of Economic Affairs Certification Authority
http://moeaca.nat.gov .tw/news.htmlEmpowerment
As the citizens in Taiwan, we know it is our responsibility to 
contribute back to the society . Other than setting up tele-
communication and internet infrastructures in remote areas, 
we will continue to pay attention to the needs of all people 
in the society , including those at disadvantage, and to help 
develop more innovative products for the realization of so-
cial welfare values.
Smart Mobile National Self Care
With our innovation, we entered the family preventive 
medical market in which we applied CIT to health -
care and medical treatment services. Users can con-
duct measurement at specific locations of their limbs 
(nerves and veins) and transmit the data to the remote 
database for  matching and analysis. From the ana-
lyzed data, users will be able to retrieve information 
regarding his/her personal health for future health 
management. This is very helpful in saving medical 
resources and transportation-related resources from 
hospital visits.
28
Assisting the V isually Impaired to 
Work Remotely via ICT
In 1988, we joined the group of “Computer for Blind Peo-
ple” hosted by the Ministry of Education. Alongside Tam-
kang University Resource Center for the Visually Impaired 
Students, we developed the “Chinese Information Applica -
tion System for the Visually Impaired.” We committed to 
provide the visually impaired with a brand new integrated, 
multifunctional and intelligent telecommunication service 
that can truly satisfy their needs of a barrier-free commu-
nication environment in order to enable them to enjoy the 
wide range of resources on the internet and thus increase 
their opportunities in education and employment. 
After years of hard-work, our efforts in combining research 
with practice brought fruitful results. Our self-developed 
TTS software was applied to the “Chinese/English Informa-
tion System for the Visually Impaired.” Working in combi-
nation with the “Barrier-free Mobile Computer Cluster ,” this 
system enabled the visually challenged to share the rich 
results of digital development with the rest of the society .
ADOC 2.0 Project
http://www .apecdoc.org/Resource Center for the V isually Impaired Students, Tamkang University
http://www .batol.net/Tamkang University ’s “ADOC 2.0 Digital Opportunity Cen-
ter for the Visually Impaired” officially started its opera-
tion on June 2, 2009. This opened the door of customer 
satisfaction survey services for the visually impaired while 
at the same time offered the government and enterprises 
a new pool of man power. The visually impaired can thus 
enjoy digital employment opportunities. At the initial stage, 
6 visually impaired persons were offered the opportunity to 
work for Chunghwa Telecom’s customer service division. 
The division will open up more job opportunities in the fu-
ture.
Through a “fully export operation model, ” we share our ex-
periences and the successful model with others. In Octo-
ber, 2009, the first overseas “ADOC 2.0 Digital Opportunity 
Center for the Visually Impaired” was officially launched 
in Quezon, the Philippines withall the software, hardware, 
educational training and manpower engagement setup in 
place at once.  It was highly praised by local and foreign 
media.  In addition, the establishment of the “Beijing Digital 
Opportunity Center for the Visually Impaired” is expected 
to be completed in September , 2010.
Visually Impaired Information Development Key Index
Technological AchievementOur volunteers lead the visually impaired friends to experi -
ence the culture and people in northern Taiwan.
Computer Educational Training 
for the V isually Impaired
Educational Assisting Tools for V isually 
Impaired Students (people)
Barrier-free Internet and Chinese e-Library 
for the V isually Impaired (viewer)337 people/year , 454 people in total
407
13,787,249Item 2009
Phone CS system by the V isually Impaired
“Rapid Dictation ” System by the V isually Impaired
Movie Playback System for the Blind
KTV playback system for the blind, barrier-free reading project and other 
assisting tools for the visually Impaired.In the 2007 APEC conference in Sydney, Australia, Taiwan’s delegate proposed the ADOC 2.0 Project. 
Private-owned enterprises and NGO from all APEC member states were invited to co-establish a multina-
tional collaboration platform through which private and public institutions can work with each other. Chunghwa 
Telecom signed the “Letter of Intent for Participation in the ADOC 2.0 Project” on August 1, 2008, and officially 
became one of the private sector initiators of the ADOC 2.0 Project.Address ADOC 2.0 Project
Long T erm Relationship with the 
Visually Impaired29
ICT Collaboration
Developed by CHTTL, IPv6, an internet management test-
ing tool and standard, has officially become the Interna-
tional IPv6 Ready Logo testing standard.
In 2003, Chunghwa Telecom was commissioned by the 
government to conduct individual IPv6 standard testing 
projects and has since devoted itself to promote local 
relevant technologies. In the past few years, we assisted 
domestic companies to obtain the International IPv6 Cer-
tificate (ranked third in the world in terms of total number of 
certificates granted) and actively participated in activities 
regarding International IPv6 Standard Testing. We are one 
of the founding members of the IPv6Ready Logo Commit -
tee and our IPv6 Standard Testing Lab is one of the five 
IPv6 certified labs recognized internationally . In the future, 
we will continue to research on and develop relevant 
standard testing kits to ensure we master the key technol -
ogy for the next generation internet infrastructure so as to 
provide assistance for future network technology develop -
ments.
We organized “GPON (Gigabit-capable Passive Optical 
Network) ” testing activities for two consecutive years since 
2008. This was to speed up the comprehensiveness and 
maturity of local GPON providers’ products and drive the 
business opportunities of the optical broadband communi -
cation industry forward to bring a win-win effect on HiNet ‘s 
network infrastructure.Our full-scale ICT collaboration with the Industrial Technol -
ogy Research Institute (ITRI) covers 12 areas including 
cloud computing, e-book, energy-saving applications, re-
mote medical treatment, Triple Play Services/IPTV, Home 
Messenger system, car-use Telematics system, wireless 
positioning system, smart monitoring system, HD smart 
action inspection and service-sharing platform, 3D imaging 
system technology platform and RFID Reader system.
Trough technological collaboration, we expect to see more 
inspiration and more telecommunication-related value add-
ing services to perfectly merge our daily needs with ICT. 
Not only will we reinforce our establishment in the ICT 
industry but also help carry Taiwan ICT industry forward to 
complete worldwide.In the Science and Technology Advisory Meeting in November 2009, Premier Wu Den-yih, indicated that the 
government will actively promote six major emerging industries. After the meeting, the “six major emerging 
industries ” became part of the government ’s most important industry development strategy . For a very long 
time, Chunghwa Telecom committed itself in technological innovation. At the same time, we highly value the 
importance of maintaining a close relationship with Taiwan ’s industry development. We strive for a healthy rela-
tionship with the 6 major emerging industries to bring out our full strength and jointly explore new markets and 
new business opportunities to create a new phase of collective prosperity . Response 6 Major Emerging Industries
IPv6 International Standard
GPON Interpolarity T est30
After 8 years since its establishment, the Taiwan-Nippon IT 
Commerce Promotion Committee has already made a sub-
stantial amount of achievement in the fields of electronic 
data interchange (EDI), Radio Frequency Identification 
(RFID), etc. Currently , the position of Taiwanese president 
is served by our Chairman, Mr. Shuye-Ching Lu. In the 
“Taiwan-Nippon e-Commerce Collaboration- Six-Party Talk 
with Officials and Citizens” that took place in June 2009, 
Chairman Lu and the Japanese president, special advisor 
Mr. Kawamura Toshiro from NEC, signed a memorandum 
of cooperation. The memorandum states that besides 
continuous collaboration on e-commerce, both parties will 
work together to “create new business opportunities” and 
conduct more “opinion exchange on IT policies.” The part 
regarding the creating of new business opportunities will 
focus more on the industries that generate contents while 
the part regarding the opinion exchange on IT policies will 
focus more on green IT .
In November 2009, Chairman Lu and Michiyoshi Mazuka, 
representative of Fujitsu, represented the presidents of the 
“Taiwan-Japan IT Business Dialogue Promotion Commit-
tee” to host the “1st Taiwan-Nippon IT Business Dialogue 
Conference. ” The conference confirmed the establishment 
of working groups for “e-Commerce, ” “Digital Content ” and 
“Green IT.” Experts from the industry were elected as con-
veners and they are expected to present their results on 
the “2nd Taiwan-Japan IT Business Dialogue Conference ” 
that will take part in Tokyo in 2010.In 2008, we won the “Best Catalyst Project Management-
Award of Excellence” with One Stop FMC (Fixed-Mobile 
Convergence) Service. In 2009, under fierce competition 
with 20 major international telecommunications operators 
such as AAPTAT&TCOXKTVerizonTelestraTelecom 
ITALIAMicrosoft Online Services, etc, we won the “2009 
Best Practices Award-Service Provider” thanks to our re-
markable operation structure, standardized interface and 
striking operational performance.
Taiwan-Japan IT  Business Dialogue 
http://www .tjbd.org.tw/tw/Telecommunication Management Forum
http://www .tmforum.org
Years of hard work in R&D brought us fruitful results and helped us to stay connected with the global com-
munity . In 2009, we filed for 26 patents in Taiwan, 1 in UK, 1 in France, 1 in Germany , 1 in Japan, 1 in Korea 
and 2 in China. We also registered 10 trademarks and 99 copyrights in Taiwan. In addition, we took every 
opportunity to attend international conferences and intensify the exchange of R&D results internationally .Target Internationalization of R&D Results
Telecommunication Management 
ForumTaiwan-Nippon IT Commerce Pro -
motion Committee31
    
P38P37P37P33P36There is only one Earth. The oppor -
tunity for future generations and all 
creatures to live should be cherished.
Electricity consumption of 2012 will be 
reduced by 12% on the basis of the 
2007 level; approximately a reduction 
of 110,000 tons of CO2 emissions.Environmental 
      Sustainability
Employees and Business Partners
Voices
Commitment
Index Category2009
Targets2009
Performance2010
CommitmentPage
The first telecom services provid -
er that sets energy-saving targets
The telcom serives provider that 
recycles the most mobile phones 
in number
The first telecom services provide 
that take initiative in supply chain 
managmentThe services provider that has the 
highest expenditure on green pro-
curement WBCSD’s manifesto of  Energy 
Efficiency in Buildings
The Annual Enterprises Environmental Protection Award by the Environmental Protection Ad-
ministration, Taiwan
The Outstanding Enterprises and Organizations in Green Procurement Award by the Environ -
mental Protection Administration, Taiwan
Clean Community Award by Business Council for Sustainable Development-T aiwan
Best Green Strategy for a Data Center by Hitachi Data Systems (HDS)To follow
To achieve 
To achieve 
To achieve To executeEnforced
Enforced12% of 
reduction
NT$ 206 
million
39,807 
mobile phonesTo continue 
A reduction of 
12% from the 
2007 level
Continued 
execution
Continued 
execution
Continued 
execution
Greenhouse Gas Inventory 
and Electricity Management
Environmental Sustainabil -
ity Management SystemTelecom Green Buildings 
Action
Green Procurement and 
Renewable EnergyEnvironmental Protec -
tion Actions and Ethical 
ConsumptionEthical Supply Chain Man -
agement in the T elecom -
munications IndustryEmployees and 
Business Partners32
“Verified ” means that the values are verified statistics of emissions by the third independent party . “System measurements ” means the 
values acquired from Chunghwa Telecom ’s “Environmental Sustainable Development Management System. ” The disclosed GHG emis -
sion statistics will be verified the next year , and the previous year ’s statistics woul be modified. Note: Greenhouse Gases
Emissions
(t-CO2e/yr)946,020.45 
100.00%Percentage of the 
total emissions  CO 2
938,837.24 2,019.91 548.33 3,345.79 5.52 1,263.65
99.24% 0.21% 0.06% 0.35% 0% 0.13%CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 Total emissions of the 6 GHGEmissions of the 6 Greenhouse Gases in 2008
Analysis of Chunghwa T elecom ’s GHG emissions
Ranges
Scope1Use of gas and diesel fuel of the business cars
Kitchen and lavatorial facilities
Emissions of the septic tank 
Emissions of the extinhuisher and refrigerant1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
1.Externally purchased electricity for office buildings, 
switching offices, and FTTx facilities Scope2
Total amount of emissions31,721.54 28,679.81
914,298.91 897,383.22
946,020.45 926,063.03    Level of GHG emissions
2008 
(verified)2009 
(system measure -
ments)Sources of the GHGInventory results
After inventory and verification of statistics, our total emis-
sions in 2008 amounted to 946,020.45 t-CO2e, which is 
higher than the level provided by system measurements in 
last year’s report. The total of 2009 GHG emissions reached 
926,063.03 t-CO2e by system measurements. This resulted 
from a continuous growing need for the telecom services 
and introduction of the next-generation telecommunications 
and internet facilities. Therefore, growth in electricity con-
sumption in each telecommunications point leads to a slight 
increase in GHG emissions. Results of the inventory and verification show that exter-
nally purchased electricity constitutes the main source of 
GHG emissions. Thus, the main strategy to cut our GHG 
emissions is to take actions in managing electricity use 
and cut the electricity consumption.
EN16
EN16Management
Following the initiative of “The GHG Emissions Inventory Project ” in 2008, we continued to work on veri-
fication of the 2008 emission statistics in 2009, and were awarded with the verification statement by the 
SGS Taiwan.Greenhouse Gas Inventory and 
Electricity Management33
c
Energy- Saving T argets Effects of Energy Management
We announced specific enegy saving targets in 2009. We 
promised that excluding the growth in business due to the 
introduction of the next-generation internet facilities, the 
electricity use in 2012 will be reduced by 12% from the 
2007 level. The reduction is equal to 168 million GWh of 
electricity and approximately 1 10,000 metric tons of CO2.
For the switching offices that consume more electricity, 
we plan to adopt the iEN to control the air conditioning 
of the switching offices; for telecommunications facilities 
such as electricity, switches, transmitters, mobile, internet 
receivers, we adopt energy-saving methods like renewal, 
replacement, consolidation, and optimizations; as for pro-
curement, we will choose facility providers that meet inter-
national green energy standards, so that we can reduce 
the electricity consumption of switching offices. With the 
above action plans, we intend to reduce the electricity use 
of switching offices by 138 GWh in 2012 from the 2007 
level. For administrative office buildings, we apply the iEN 
on current office buildings first and use the smart energy-
saving system as well as corporate intnernal management 
platform, plan to save electricity by 30 GWh by the end of 
2012. The energy saving ratio reaches 7.85% and we will 
take the challenge of 10%.With continuous promotion of energy-saving practices for 
internal switching offices and office buildings, as well as ris-
ing awareness of employees and exclusion of the increased 
amount of electricity due to introduction of the next-gener -
ation facilities, the total electricity consumption was cut by 
12,063,008 KWh in 2009 as compared with 2008. We found 
this extraordinary .
Year Electricity use (KWh)
2008
2009
Difference
Strategy
Target
2007 2012Save 168 GWh1,343,339,812
1,331,276,804
-12,063,008 Results of 2009 Energy Use Management
Strategies and T argets
Electricity man -
agement of office 
buildingsEnergy-saving 
practices of 
switching officesExploration and 
application of re -
newable energyPractice of all 
employees ’ 
energy-saving 
actions34
Environmental Management System Water Resources Managment
Our Southern Taiwan Business Group took the lead in 
integrating the environmental management system ISO 
14001:2004 into the operation of the company in 2008. 
With good trial experiences in implementation, we decided 
to help each department with integration of the manage-
ment system step by step. After the Mobile Business 
Group acquired their certificate in 2009, all of the business 
institutes that occupy more than 90% of the revenue of the 
company already acquired the ISO 14001.
While introducing the system, we emphasized the engage -
ment of employees and cultivation of expertise. Take the 
Mobile Business Group for example. In 2009 with active 
participation of all of the employees, there were more than 
200 people that received the training of ISO 14001; a to-
tal of 4 internal promotions were held, and participating 
employees accounted for more than 300 person-times. 
Besides, 138 employees were awarded the certificates of 
“Implementing an ISO 14001 Environmental Management 
System” and 127 employees were awarded qualified “In-
ternal Auditors.” With the back-up of complete knowledge 
and experts, we can take proper and correct actions.Global climate change has a lot to do with water resources. 
Noting the change in the extreme weather, we started to 
include water resouces into the management. Besides in-
cluding leakage into the detection function in the products, 
we also include the water consumption of the company 
into the environmental sustainability management system, 
manging and analyzing with the informationalized inter-
face. We also continue to promote water-saving practices 
such as recycling and reuse of the rainfall and household 
wastewater .
In order to provide good-quality connection along the 
coastline, we set up facilities upon the He-T ien Hill in 
Hualien. To solve problems with air conditioning of 
switching offices and water for daily use, we collect 
rain in the most natural way: filters are installed in rain 
drainage in the buildings; storage tanks were digged 
out underground for use during maintenance.Recycling of the Rainfall
The telecommunications industry generates low pollution, but we are aware that energy and resources 
consumed in the process of operation would still impact the environment. Therefore, we established sound 
management procedures and built environmental awareness, taking active initiatives that were good for 
the environment.ManagementEnvironmental Sustainability Man -
agement System35
Electricity MWh Eco-Efficiency Ratio
Electricity includes the electricity consumption of the introduced 
next-generation telecom facilities.
To provide good-quality services,12,473 sets of FTTx facilities 
were lately acquired,which slightly increased the overall electricity 
consumption.
Eco-Efficiency Ratio = revenue of 2009/ electricity consumption.Note1:
Note2:
Note3:GHG emissions of year 2009 will be verified in 2010.
Eco-Efficiency Ratio= revenue of 2009 / GHG emissions
Eco-Efficiency Ratio revenue of 2009 / amount of waste
Batteries should only be discarded if they are no longer usable after 
five years of use. The number of recycled batteries is associated with 
the amount of construction that year, and does not serve as a perfor -
mance indicator .
ATU-R stands for ADSL  Transceiver Unit, remote terminal end. VTU-R 
is short for VDSL  Transceiver Unit Remote.Note1:
Note2:
Note:
Note:
Note:20071418.021453. 6
1393.72
2008 2009GHG emissions t/CO 2e Eco-Efficiency Ratio
Waste tons Eco-Efficiency Ratio131.4 128.5132
Petroleum 1m3Eco-Efficiency Ratio
Eco-Efficiency Ratio = revenue of 2009/ petroleum consumption. Note:20076742. 7
6607. 8
6422. 3
2008 200927.2927.8528.66
Diesel fuel 1m3Eco-Efficiency Ratio
Water Consumption 1000m3
Eco-Efficiency RatioEco-Efficiency Ratio = revenue of 2009/ diesel fuel consumption Note:2007809.9
748
716.9
2008 2009227.24246.04
256.72
Energy Consumption 
(Electricity + Fuel)GJ Eco-Efficiency Ratio
Total energy consumption (GJ) calorific value= total electricity con-
sumpti on (GJ) calorific value + total fuel consumpti on (GJ) carlo rific 
value
Eco-Efficiency Ratio= revenue of 2009 / energy consumption
Eco-Efficiency Ratio = revenue of 2009 / water consumptionNote1:
Note2:
Note:An Overview of Environmental Impacts
INPUT OUTPUT
20072,431.002,378.002,762.80
2008 200976.675.567.9200710,295.00
7,917.00
5,372.00
2008 200918.123.634.3
Number of the Recycled from Internet 
Customers
380,213
57,735
129,084695,999
145,394
210,2952008 2009
ATU-R (uni)
VTU-R (uni)
MOD-ST  (uni)Amount of Recycled Mixed Hardware
Battery (uni)
Waste hardware 
(metric tons)
Jelly filled cables 
(metric tons)3,315
5,018
1,137
8253,006
3,219
875
8175,867
3,267
855
460Types
Types2007 2008 20092007930,439.94946,020.45
926,063.00
2008 20090.19 0.190.2
General cables 
(metric tons)
20075,112,6365,068,1235,254,697
716.9
2008 20090.036 0.0370.035336
In 2009, making “environmental protection and 
energy-saving” as the theme, we renovated the out-
look platform and skylight in the auditorium of the 
Chunghwa Telecom Laboratories. With the energy-
saving design, the auditorium can cut approximately 
5,760 kWh of electricity per year, which saves about 
NT$20,000 and reduces GHG emissions by 4000 kg. 
Even though the direct effects are limited, the mes-
sage of energy saving for users of the auditorium will 
perform multiplying effects. This renovation project 
received positive feedback from the Environmental 
Protection Administration, and the auditorium was 
designated as the venue for the “2009 Corporate En-
vironmental Protection Award ” Seminar .The Energy Saving AuditoriumIncreasing the Energy Efﬁcien -
cy in BuildingsPledging to the Manifesto of “En-
ergy Efﬁciency in Buidlings ”
In 2009, we started to focus on increasing the energy ef-
ficiency of construciton like office buildings. Setting targets 
in creating zero energy consumption to minimize environ-
mental impacts, we tried different solutions and deployed 
actions to increase the energy efficiency of buildings by im-
proving systems, constructing green buildings, and adopt -
ing the innovative behavior management, and etc. In 2009, as a Taiwanese member company , we pledged to 
the “Manifesto for Energy Efficiency in Buildings” initiated 
by the World Business Coucil for Sustainable Developmet 
(WBCSD). We will voluntarily put the manifesto into prac-
tice.
One of the switching offices of Chunghwa Telecom is 
located in Mt. JiJida in Jhongliao Township, Nantou 
County. It is a nexus of telecommunications in the 
central Taiwan area. In September 2008, Typhoon 
Sinlaku stroke Taiwan with violent rain, collapsing the 
retaining wall of the office and breaking the road by 
the down slope. We immediately took emergency ac-
tions to ensure the safety of the office, and decided 
to adopt the ecological engineering method to rebuild 
the retaining wall on the slope. Meanwhile, we en-
gaged factors such as greening and integration of 
views in the reconstruction of permanent retaining 
walls. This construction work was completed in June 
2009, and it successfully passed the test of Typhoon 
Morakot.The Ecologically Engineered Switching OfﬁceChunghwa Telecom has more than 1,800 operation offices across Taiwan. We hope that by effectively in-
creasing the energy efficiency of buildings, we will reduce the operational costs, enhance the production 
power of employees, and reach the energy-saving targets.Address
WBCSD Manifesto for Energy 
Efficiency in BuildingsChunghwa Telecom’s responding 
actions
We already disclosed our 
preliminary target of carbon 
management in the 2008 CSR 
repor: GHG emissions in 2013 
would be mitigated to the level 
of 2008. We also set targets in 
reducing the energy consump-
tion. Response to the Manifesto for Energy 
Efﬁciency in Buildings
The chapter of environmental 
sustainability in the CSR report 
clearly discloses our carbon 
management policy. Currently 
we are promoting the assess-
ment of enengy efficiency in 
buildings and improvement 
projects. 
“The Evaluation on Energy 
Saving Performance” is con-
ducted in each business group 
and operation office regularly; 
among all, the electricity use 
and energy conservation prac-
tices in the offices are included 
in the performance review . 
“GHG Emissions Inventory Proj-
ects” are conducted regularly 
every year. Meanwhile, through 
the “environmental sustainabil-
ity management system,” we 
can know well and disclose the 
situation of CO2 emissions.
Regular activities include “Ener-
gy-saving training,” publication 
of “energy saving brochures,” 
as well as promotion posters 
and slogans for enegy saving 
of buildings.
Energy-saving practices and 
experiences are shared on the 
CHT interactive platform 
Consumers are encouraged to 
use electronic bills and others.
“The Evaluation on Energy 
Saving Performance” and edu-
cational courses are conducted 
in each business group and 
operation office. 
It is planned that the concept 
of increasing energy efficiency 
will be communicated and pro-
moted to suppliers since year 
2010. To create a baseline of the 
company’s commercial build-
ings and set time-based energy 
and/or CO2 reduction targets in 
line with transformative change.
To publish a company policy for 
minimum energy performance 
levels in the company’s com-
mercial buildings.
To define and carry out the 
company’s audit program and 
implementation strategy to 
meet energy targets for its com-
mercial buildings
To publish annually buildings’ 
energy use, CO2 emissions 
and progress against reduction 
targets, in the companies’ re-
spective CSR or other report.
To further promote building 
energy efficiency among sup-
pliers, employees, and other 
stakeholders through advocacy , 
marketing activity , R&D, educa -
tion and training.Telecom Green Buildings Action37
a
Solar Power Supply System
In 2009, we built the country ’s first solar power supply sys-
tem that supplies power for cellphones, e-bulletin board, 
and telecommunications, and etc. The generated power not 
only can be supplied for facilities, but also serve as a sup-
port during power failure. The promise of “no power , but you 
can still call” is fulfilled.  In order to increase the manage -
ment efficiency , our solar power supply system has a visu-
alized interface that enables the superintender to monitor 
daily solar radiation, the temperature of solar panels, the 
temperature, output electricity , warnings and etc. immedi -
ately online. Both the Fangshan switching office of the In-
ternational Business Group as well as the Hueilai Switching 
Office of the Southern Business Group won “2009 Golden 
Sun Shooter Award —excellent demonstration of solar pow-
er applications. ” 
We have established 20 sets of “the solar power supply sys-
tem,” whose total capacity was 92.7kWp and 128 sets of the 
solar water heater , whose toal area of the heating modules 
were 483.52Ĕ. With devices of solar power supply system 
and other energy-saving designs, we can have effects on 
energy conservation in switching offices and buildings.Green Procurement Benchmark  
Expenditure on Environmental 
ProtectionIn 2009, the amount of our green procurement was 
NT$206 million. According to the Environmental Protection 
Administration, there were a total of 20 companies whose 
expenditure on green procurement exceeded NT$20 mil-
lion. Consolidating all the branches, Chunghwa Telecom 
was ranked the first in the tertiary sector, and the third 
among all. All of Chunghwa Telecom’s operation offices 
have signed the consent form of green procurement, ac-
tively participating in green procurement-related activities 
promoted by local governments. If the expenditure on 
green procurement was sorted by administrative districts, 
Taipei City with NT$109 million was the most, Taoyuan 
County with NT$27.84 million came the second, and Kaoh -
siung City with NT$20.22 million was the third. 
We also actively responded to the green store policy pro-
moted by the Environmental Protection Administration, 
becoming the first private company that joined the green 
stores as an employee cooperative, and encouraging em-
ployees to consider green products first. Our efforts won 
us positive feedback from the Taipei City Government as 
the benchmark of “private enterprises and organizations in 
green procurement,” and as the promoting green store in 
“bettering marketing channels and procurement informa-
tion of environmental products. ”
The total of the expenditure on environmental protection in 
2009 was NT$468.5 million. We encouraged development 
of the green industry with tangible actions.
Amount of the Expenditure
(Unit: billion NTD)
Categories Amount
TotalDecontamination 0.026
0.002
0.07
0.06
2.46
0.0072.06
4.685Scrap paper 
Waste
CSRES
Sanitation
Green procurement
Treatement of discarded 
cemet electricity polesEN30Another advantage of Chunghwa Telecom of promoting environmental sustainability is that we budget for 
the procurement, so that we can promote development of the green industry as a customer . Besides, we 
take advantage of Chunghwa Telecom ’s buildings, actively developing and adopting renewable energy; 
therefore, we can ensure energy conservation, carbon reduction and provide continuous telecommunica -
tions services even during the power failure.Address Green Procurement and Renewable Energy38
Bill Integration and Electronic Bills
To promote the integration of bills, we decided to start with 
the phone bills because they consumed the most paper . By 
the end of 2009, 86% of customers have already integrated 
their bills. This saves us 240 million pieces of paper per 
year, which is equal to saving 20,000 trees and a reduction 
of 4000 tons of CO 2 emission. To further our action in going 
paperless, we started the service of online billing in August 
2005; customers can make online inquries, pay online, and 
analyze the bills online, and etc. By the end of 2009, e-bill 
has been provided for 2.83 million cellphone numbers. This 
saves 1.62 million pieces of paper , equal to saving 4,400 
trees, and a reduction of 79 tons of CO 2 emissions. 
Recycling W aste Mobile T elecom -
municaion Products Project
Mobile telecommunications technology advances rapidly , 
and innovative products are always available in market. Af-
ter waste mobile phones are recycled and treated, we can 
avoid the toxic substances contained in the waste ones to 
contaminate the envrionemnt in the process of incineration 
or landfill. Besides, some substances in the waste mobile 
phones can be reused, and we can reduce the consumption 
of the resources and energy on the Earth.
On December 30, 2008, we signed the “Memorandum for 
Collaboration on Recycling Waste Mobile Telecommunica -
tions Products ” with the Environmental Protection Adminis -
tration, Executive Yuan. Regardless of the brand and types, 
people can bring their waste mobile phones and accesso -
ries such as batteries, and rechargers to the 319 service 
centers and 210 stores of the Senao International Co., Ltd, 
a subsidiary company of the Chunghwa Telecom. In 2009, 
we recycled 39,807 waste mobile phones; 19,120 kg of bat-
teries and accessories. This is the most effective mobile 
phone recycling project across Taiwan.Coastal Cleanup on Earth Day
The Clean Neighborhood ActionsOn the eve of 2009 Earth Day, Chunghwa Teleocm initi-
ated a series of beach cleaning activities, protecting the 
seashore from the north to the south. In the north, Mr. 
Siao-Tung Chang, the General Manager, led 250 people, 
consisiting of employees and their families from the Head -
quaters and Shilin Operation Office. They cleaned the 
beach along the Shitsao Coast in Laomay Village, Shih-
men Township, Taipei County. In the Taoyuan, Hsinchuh 
and Miaoli district, the Telecom Laboratoies joined the 
Coast Guard Administration, Executive Yuan in the spring 
beach cleaning activity in the Yong An Snow Forest in 
Sinwu Township, Taoyuan County . The Hsinchu Operation 
Office took part in the beach cleaning activities along the 
Ciding coast. The Tainan Operation Office participated in 
the beach cleaning activities held by the Environmental 
Protection Bureau, Tainan City. To show the commitment to 
protecting the environment with energy-saving practices, 
on the day of April 22, the light was turned off in all of the 
offices for an hour at noon. 
We actively engaged ourselves in the EPA-promoted corpo -
rate action plan “the Clean Neighborhood, ” working togeth -
er on cleaing the neighborhood and commiting ourselves 
to environmental protection in the community . In January 
2009, the environmental volunteer service team was of-
ficially formed. Taking the responsibility of a big neighbor , 
employees are expected to be more concerned about their 
neighbors and communities and to maintain the quality of 
the environment spontaneously . With actions, we greatly in-
creased the efficiency in cleaning and maintaining the sani-
tary of each community and were awarded “Clean Commu -
nity Award ” by the Environmental Protection Administraiton.Chunghwa Telecom hopes to mitigate their environmental impacts together with the customers by encour -
aging its employees to take part in environmental protection activities and to decorate the office with plants. 
During the past three years, we have worked hard on promoting integration of bills and e-bills, and effects 
have shown. In late 2008, we started to promote the recycling of cellphones, and through the cooperation 
with a subsidiary company Senao International Co., Ltd., we have recycled approximately 40,000 waste 
cellphones. ResponseEnvironmental Protection Actions and Ethical 
Consumption39
Roadmap of Supply Chain Management
2008 2009 2010 2011~2013Chunghwa T elecom ’s Roadmap of Supply Chain ManagementChunghwa Telecom is the first company that made supply chain management policy in the domestic telecommunications 
industry . In 2008 we officially declared the “Supplier Environment, Human Rights and Ethics Principles. ” Besides asking sup-
pliers to comply with domestic labor and environmental regulations on the basis of the procurement requirements, we called 
on the three main departments-the internet, the supply, and the administrative management- to complete the questionnaire 
“Survey on Chunghwa Telecom’s Supplier Corporate Social Responsibility” based on the “Electronics-Tool for Accountable 
Supply Chains ” (E-TASC) developed by the Global e-Sustainability InitiativeGeSI in 2009. Permitted by the CSR committee, 
the “Chunghwa Telecom Ethical Supply Chain Management ” action was officially launched.  
Since 2010, starting with suppliers that we have a big portion of procurement from and that are inﬂuential to the society and 
environment, we will send questionnaires and hold a suppliers’ general meeting. In addition to understanding our suppliers’ 
current CSR performance (labor rights and environment in particular), we would like to let suppliers understand our CSR strat-
egy and practices by communicating and interacting with them. Through our inﬂuence, we hope to deepen the roots of CSR in 
Taiwan.
Concept/Strategy
/Guideline
To create CHT ’s 
supply chain man -
agement strategy
To ensure organiza -
tion management 
and targets on dif -
ferent stages
To design the ques -
tionnaire on CSR of 
CHT’s suppliersSupplier 
Environ -
ment, Hu -
man Rights 
and Ethics 
PrinciplesTo do the suppli -
ers’ CSR survey 
To hold the suppli -
er communication 
meetingTo design the as -
sessment of CHT ’s 
ethical supply 
chain and auditing 
standards scheme
To promote to and 
train specific sup -
pliersTo design an 
infrastructure for 
auditing
To plan on auditing 
suppliers
To audit and con -
duct improvement 
plans
After 2014Survey and 
CommunicationStandards
/PromotionAuditingEC6Chunghwa Telecom purchases products, services, constructions from domestic and international suppliers, 
which include Internet facilities, information facilities, cables, marketing and design, and the waste treat-
ment. There are a great number of both purchases and suppliers, which also means that we are inﬂuential 
enough to inﬂuence our suppliers to take corporate social responsibility together .TargetEthical Supply Chain Management in the 
Telecommunications IndustryCHT conducted the second online employee CSR survey in 
2009 to learn more about employees ’ CSR expectations. CHT 
also launched a number of convenient value-added services to 
strengthen the link between our service offerings and our custom -
ers’ lifestyle as well as well as increase our potential market. 
Thanks to a corporate philosophy of emphasizing inspiring ser-
vice, CHT has long been the voted the best telecommunications 
brand by consumers. Many top minds also name CHT as their 
dream employer . The new orange, green and blue corporate 
identity system embodies the new image shining forth from within.41
 



P42
P43
P43
P43
P47
P42
P42
P45
P47
P43The pride in being a CHT  employ -
ee comes from social acceptance.
Continue to be the most desirable 
employer for people from dif ferentEmployee Care
Employees, Dependents
Voices
Commitment
Index Category2009
Commitment2009
Performance2010
TargetPage
Physically and Mentally Disabled 
Citizens Protection Act
Voluntary Service Act
Proportion of women officers (%)
Employment of the handicapped 
Unpaid parental leave applica-
tions (persons)
Only telco to have a company union 
and sign a collective bargaining 
agreement employeesCorporate volunteer service (hours)Labor Union ActIncorporation of the two interna-
tional human rights conventions 
into domestic lawUN Global CompactCompliance 
required
Compliance 
required
Must increase
Must increase
Must increase
Set indicators
Must realizeCompliance 
requiredCompliance 
requiredCompliance 
requiredIn compliance
In compliance
In complianceIn complianceIn complianceIn complianceContinued 
compliance
Continued 
compliance
Continue to 
increase
Continue to 
increase
Continue to 
increase
Continue to 
increase
Must maintainContinued 
complianceContinued 
complianceContinued 
compliance
“Healthy Workplace Self Accreditation-Health Promotion Mark(Department of Health, Executive Yuan) 
“Health Management Award ” (Bureau of Health Promotion, Department of Health, Executive Yuan)
“Health Excellence Award ” (Taipei City Government)
Diversity
Human Rights and Labor 
Relations
Talent Attraction and 
TrainingBalancing W ork and 
LifestyleHealth, Safety and Re -
tirement ProtectionCorporate V olunteering Employees, De -
pendents42
Equal Opportunity Support for Handicapped
Respect for Indigenous RightsCHT employed a total of 24,668 people in 2009. The em-
ployee turnover rate was 1.27% with 313 separations and 
434 new recruits. We employed a total of 6,950 women, or 
28.17% of our total workforce. We have issued the “Guide -
lines for Prevention for Prevention and Reporting of Sex-
ual Harassment ” in accordance with the Gender Equality 
in Employment Act though no related complaints were re-
ceived in 2009. There has been little change in the propor -
tion of female employees over the last three years though 
the proportion of female officers has increased slightly up to 
22.48% in 2009.In 2009 we employed a total of 709 physically or mentally 
handicapped people. This represents 2.87% of our total 
workforce and is 3.1 times the statutory minimum, demon -
strating our commitment to good corporate citizenship.
The indigenous peoples enrich the cultural diversity of 
Taiwan. CHT employs 50 people from indigenous back-
grounds and we fully respect their different cultural cus-
toms. 
Total W orkforce and T urnoverNumber of Handicapped Employees
Gender Equality by Role
2007656695709
2008 200952 379
1,990 7,537 2892,416Gender Equality by YearPeople with Disabilities Rights Protection Act
Article 38, Paragraph 2 of the People with Disabili -
ties Rights Protection Act stipulates: “Any private 
business organization …. Shall employ people with 
disabilities with capacity to work and the number of 
employees with disabilities shall be no less than 1 
percent of the total number of employees. ”LA2
LA2LA13
LA1, LA22007 2008 200928.06 28.18 28.17
21.5122.11 22.48
200724,13824,55124,668
2008 20098.27
1.36 1.27We respect the differences of our employees and help them balance their career with family life. Employ -
ee recruitment is principally through open examinations with no gender restrictions on roles and assign -
ments. To provide disadvantaged groups with more employment opportunities we offer bonus points for 
people with physical/mental handicaps or from indigenous groups. Once employed, employees perform -
ing the same work receive the same salary with no dif ferences due to gender , age, ethnicity or religion.Management Diversity
Proportion of female employees (%)
Male
Upper
ManagementMiddle
ManagementLower
ManagementFemale
Total (Persons)Total (Persons)
Turnover Rate (%)Proportion of female officers (%)43
Labor Relations Human Rights and Anti-corruptionCHT is dedicated to maintaining harmony in labor relations. We also uphold the spirit of international hu-
man rights conventions such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor 
Organization Conventions by forbidding discrimination in any form, coerced labor and the use of child 
labor . Management
CHT is the only telecommunications operator in Taiwan 
to have set up a company union and signed a collective 
bargaining agreement with employees. Apart from con-
forming to stringent local and overseas regulations, it also 
demonstrates our commitment to protecting the rights of 
our employees. The collective bargaining agreement not 
only guarantee employees’ right to make suggestions, 
submit complaints and join a trade union, but also require 
a labor relations meeting to be convened every 3 months 
by management and worker representatives at the head 
office and regional branches. Extraordinary labor relations 
meetings may also be held as necessary and workers’ 
representatives may attend meetings on personnel evalu-
ations, performance reviews and business reports. A di-
rectorship on the CHT Board is also reserved for workers ’ 
representatives in accordance with the resolution passed 
by the Legislative Yuan on June 6, 2003, enabling labor 
participation in Board affairs.  In 2009, up to 99.3% of all 
CHT employees were union members.
CHT’s President and CEO frequently meet or talk with the 
president, directors and auditors from the union to ensure 
a clear line of communications between the employer and 
labor. A total of six national labor relations meetings and 
two extraordinary meetings were held in 2009, with con-
sensus achieved on several related issues. 13 negotiations 
on labor relations (performance review and the issuing of 
performance bonuses) were also convened and a conclu -
sion reached, effectively enhancing harmony in labor rela-
tions.
The starting salary for all new employees is set above the 
minimum wage required by law. Affected units and person -
nel are also notified in advance of organizational restruc-
turing or transfers and assignments updated as necessary . 
The above measures all serve to enhance harmony in 
labor relations.
For exceptional contract employees working in customer 
service or operations support, we have a program in place 
to offer them full-time employment. The program is our 
way of taking care of local contract workers at our regional 
branches.We join other large international enterprises in embrac-
ing the ten general principles of the United Nations Global 
Compact, and oppose corruption and bribery in any form. 
We will not make any political contributions other than the 
payment of legal taxes.
In support of the UN International Covenant on Civil and 
Political Rights and International Covenant on Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights being incorporated into do-
mestic law in December 2009, CHT will work to increase 
employee awareness on human rights to ensure that CHT 
employees, customers, suppliers, investors and local com-
munities are all treated with respect and fairness.
UN Global Compact
Labor Union ActInternational Convention as Domestic LawThe Global Compact is a CSR declaration 
launched in 2000 by the United Nations. The Com -
pact sets out behavioral guidelines for enterprises 
in human rights, labor standards and the environ-
ment. 
In human rights, the Global Compact asks busi-
nesses to respect and uphold the international 
conventions on human rights and to not take part 
in ignoring or violating human rights under any cir-
cumstances. In labor standards, the Global Com-
pact calls on businesses to respect the freedom of 
association, acknowledge labor ’s right to collective 
bargaining, eliminate all forms of coerced labor, 
stop the use of child labor and eliminate any dis-
crimination in employment.
Article 6: “An industrial union or craft union shall 
be organized in accordance with law, which work -
ers of full 20 years of age, of the same industry in 
the same area or in the factory or workshop, or in 
the same area and in the craft, exceed the number 
of thirty .”
Article 12: “All male and female workers within the 
jurisdictional area of a labor union who have at-
tained full 16 years of age, shall have the right and 
obligation to join and become a member of the 
labor union for industry or craft in which they are 
engaged; provided, that those who have joined an 
industrial union may be allowed not to join a craft 
union ”.On December 10, 2009, the Government an-
nounced that the N International Covenant on Civil 
and Political Rights and International Covenant on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights have been 
incorporated into domestic legislation. Under the 
new laws, CHT will continue to promote positive 
contribution to human rights through business ac-
tivities and reducing their negative impact.Human Rights and 
Labor Relations44
Increasing Employment
CSR Review for ExecutivesTelecom T raining Institute
Elite Development PartnershipPerformance ReviewIn 2009, CHT continued to offer increased employment op-
portunities to help reduce unemployment and recruited 434 
new employees through competitive examination. Due to 
our strategy of diversification and support of government 
initiatives in the six emerging industries of green energy , 
biotechnology , healthcare, boutique agriculture, tourism 
and creative culture, we have embraced employee incen -
tive training programs to develop and retain the next gen-
eration of telecommunications expertise.
CHT has established a comprehensive performance re-
view system that standardizes performance reviews for 
employees at all levels.
We also ensure that every employee can discuss every 
part of their performance directly with their supervisor. All 
managers are required to conduct face-to-face interviews 
throughout the review process. By helping employees un-
derstand their expected roles and responsibilities as well 
as provide guidance on career planning, the system helps 
to boost employee morale and organizational loyalty .
To ensure that CSR strategy and business strategy comple -
ment each other at CHT, performance reviews for execu -
tives look at not only traditional financial indicators but also 
take into consideration their response to stakeholder opin-
ions, realization of environmental management targets and 
improvement of CHT ’s charitable image. The Telecom Training Institute (TTI) organizes competen -
cy training courses each year to systematically train em-
ployees on core networking technologies, access network 
technologies, mobile communications technologies, value-
added services, information technology , business manage -
ment, operations management and human resources man-
agement. 
To enhance the capability of the management team, the TTI 
also hosts regular leadership training courses and training 
for exceptional managers assigned to re-investment sub-
sidiaries as executives or shareholder representatives. 
In 2009, a total of 1.92 million hours of actual employee 
training were conducted through physical classes and dis-
tance education at a total cost of $661.36 Billion.
In addition to internal training, CHT also partners with re-
spected outside educational institutions to cultivate ex-
pertise in telecommunications technology and boost our 
industrial competitiveness. In 2008, the TTI partnered 
with the National Taiwan University to host the “Advanced 
Telecommunications Network Technologies ” program. The 
4-semester program consists of 50 places and has been 
very successful in giving students a solid grounding tele-
communications network theory . We also encourage gen-
eral employees to embrace lifelong learning with education 
subsidies of up to $30,000 per semester . In 2009 a total of 
1,142 employees applied for in-service education subsidies 
and total spending amounted to NT$16,530,000.
Education & T raining Related Regulations
Chunghwa Telecom Guidelines for Employees 
Studying at University or College (including Grad -
uate School)
Chunghwa Telecom Management Development 
GuidelinesEmployee Education & T raining
Total Training 
Costs (NTD)
Training Cost 
per Person 
(NTD)
Total Hours 
of Training 
(Hours)
Training Hours 
per Person 
(Hours)2007
616,673,532 659,309,528 661,362,885
25,549 26,855 26,819
2,023,1 12 2,190,419 1,927,751
84 89 782008 2009LA10The global financial crisis of 2008 continued to make its presence felt in 2009. At CHT, we lived up to our 
commitment of “no retrenchments, no salary cuts and no unpaid leave” so employees can continue to 
focus on their work. In 2009, we invested 3.1% of our annual revenues in personnel development and 
employee education. Average spending on employee training has remained steady despite the global 
financial crisis.Management Recruitment and T raining45
CHT offers healthcare that exceeds statutory requirements 
and all employees are eligible for a free health checkup 
once a year. In 2009, we hosted 230 health workshops as 
well as 32 physical competitions and 111 excursions to im-
prove employee fitness and introduce them to the beauty 
of Taiwan. The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is 
also continuing to provide employees with one-to-one con-
sultation on mental, legal, financial, medical, work and life-
style issues. Total cost of employee healthcare amounted 
to 0.15% of annual revenues.
CHT encourages employees to spend time outdoors and 
enjoy nature. Unused dormitories around Taiwan have 
been refurbished into the “CHT Te-lodgings ” managed on a 
part-time, semi-self service basis by CHT employees. The 
Te-lodgings feature many green initiatives such as unified 
purchasing of supplies, solar powered water heater and bi-
cycle rental. The Te-Lodgings also promote environmental 
friendly travel. There are now 29 Te-lodgings throughout 
Taiwan with a total of 460 rooms.Balancing W ork and Family
The Taiwanese society will increasingly feel the impact of 
an aging population and decreasing birth-rate in the future. 
To encourage employees to embrace their responsibili-
ties as parents as well as balance their work and family, 
CHT introduced unpaid parental leave in July 2006, with 
employees on unpaid parental leave entitled to receive a 
parenting subsidy equivalent to half of their insured salary 
for up to two years. Other benefits include family leave, 
paternity leave, menstrual leave and nursing rooms. In 
2009 there were 155 applications for maternity leave, 55 
applications for unpaid parental leave and 53 applications 
for parenting subsidy .Health Beneﬁts
CHT T e-Lodgings
Employee Applications for Parenting Subsidy
2009 2008
125155
5255
4953
Employees that 
underwent health 
checkup (Persons)
Proportion of 
employees that 
underwent health 
checkup (%)
Total cost of 
employee health 
checkups (NTD)
Rate of occupa -
tional hazard per 
thousand employ -
ees (%)Maternity leave 
applicationsUnpaid parental 
leave applicationsParenting subsidy
Employee Health Checkup
24,018 23,378
98.09 97.08
39,851,601 38,734,376
1.06 1.33 1.092008 2007 2009
23,924
98.03
67,978,876LA7, LA8CHT led the industry in implementing unpaid parental leave in 2006 to help employees balance their 
work and lifestyle. We also provide healthcare superior to statutory requirements. CHT’s network of 
“CHT Te-Lodgings ” throughout Taiwan offer employees a great option of travel and recreation. The many 
energy-saving measures implemented at Te-lodgings also demonstrate our efforts in environmental pro-
tection.Address
The number of applications for unpaid parental leave is 
higher than the number of applications for parenting subsidy 
because the latter is only available to women.Note:Balancing W ork and Lifestyle46
Occupational injuries 
and deaths (%)
Death in line of duty 
(Persons)Occupational Injury
0.89 0.712008 2007 2009
0.56
8 6 6LA7OSH Management System
CHT regularly monitors OSH performance and the safety 
of work-related equipment t o provide employees with a 
safe and healthy workplace. IN 2009 the total damage & 
injury index was 0.14 (Note). 
Our OSH management system is externally audited to 
ensure “standard” and “systemic” management of em-
ployee safety and health as well increase the quality and 
safety of our operations. In addition to the international 
OHSAS 18001 occupational safety & health system certi-
fication, the Council for Labor Affairs unveiled in 2007 the 
Taiwan Occupational Safety  Health Management System 
(TOSHMS) based on both “overseas certification ” and “do-
mestic compliance ”. 
As of the end of 2009, 33 CHT units have passed OH-
SAS 18001 certification with 23 of these also achieving 
TOSHMS certification.
H1N1 ResponsePension Fund
H1N1 attracted widespread attention around the world in 
2009. As the vectors and symptoms of H1N1 are similar to 
inﬂuenza, precautionary management measures were ad-
opted by CHT .Frequency-Severity Indicator =  
(Rate of disabling injuries*severity of disabling injuries)/1000
Injury Frequency Rate (FR) = No. of disabling injuries * 106 
/ Total work hoursNote:
Note:Retirements are processed in accordance with the Em-
ployee Retirement Pension and Separation Guidelines, the 
Labor Standards Act and the Labor Pension Act.  The maxi -
mum pension contribution (15%) is paid into employees ’ 
pension funds each month to ensure that employees are 
properly provided for .
Lifelong Learning for Retired Employees
In 2009 CHT donated $4.5 Million to the CHT Retire -
ment Association to improve the care of retired em-
ployees. A dedicated website (http://www .chtr.org.tw/) 
has also been established to promote healthcare and 
lifelong learning among retirees.CHT emphasizes safety in the workplace and has continued to implement various occupational safety & 
health management systems over the years. We pay particular attention to employee retirement entitle-
ments for their peace of mind.Response Health, Safety and Retirement Protection47
Volunteer Service Act
Volunteer T raining Program
Corporate V olunteer ServiceTo realize the ideal of working together for a civil society, 
CHT released Taiwan’s first ever corporate volunteer ser-
vice guidelines and service plan on November 30 in 2007. 
The plan encourages employees to participate in volunteer 
service and a comprehensive management scheme will be 
gradually developed.
To ensure the safety and health of corporate volunteers as 
well as protect the rights of service recipients, CHT offers 
special training in addition to the basic statutory require-
ments to maximize volunteer contributions and raise the 
standard of service. A total of 6,692 hours of volunteer 
training (including both basic and special training) were 
completed in 2009.
As of the end of 2009, 892 CHT employees (3.72% of the 
total workforce) have completed statutory volunteer train-
ing and received the national “Volunteer Service Logbook ”. 
CHT has drawn upon both corporate and social resources 
to organize a variety of different charity activities, contribut -
ing a total of 41,979 hours of corporate volunteer service in 
2009.Paid V olunteer Leave
The current volunteer leave system provides each employ -
ee with a set amount of volunteer leave each year . 
As CHT employees over 20,000 people throughout Taiwan, 
if every employee makes full use of their volunteer leave 
we can provide community groups with a huge source of 
manpower and contribute to the development of the civil 
society in Taiwan.
Volunteer Service ActWe encourage employees to participate in charity activities 
to enrich their life experience. To learn about employee 
preferences on volunteer activities an internal online sur-
vey was carried out. The results showed that employee 
preferences in volunteering were as follow:Employee Participation Survey
Helping students in remote rural regions with e-learning 
and computer repairs (22.94%)
Participation in eco-conservation activities (20.08%)
Community relations building (19.95%)
Article 7 (Implementation of service plan)
Voluntary service utilization units shall utilize 
volunteers in accordance with voluntary service 
plans.
Voluntary service plans, as referred to in the prec-
edent Paragraph, shall cover volunteer personnel 
recruitment, training, management, utilization, 
guidance, evaluation and service scopes.
Article 9 (V olunteer education & training)
In order to enhance the quality of voluntary ser-
vice, and safeguard the rights and interests of ser-
vice recipients, voluntary service utilization units 
shall provide the following training to volunteers:
(1) Basic training
(2) Special trainingCorporate volunteering is an extension of CSR. To encourage our employees to be proactive in giving 
back to the community , volunteer leave is now officially recognized in the personnel system. Flexible vol-
unteering options as well as free and professional volunteer training effectively enhance the contribution 
to society made by corporate volunteers.Target Corporate V olunteering48
    
P51Inspiring service comes from an 
experience that “exceeds my ex -
pectations ”
Continue to be the consumers ’ 
most trusted telecommunications 
brandInspiring 
        Service
Customers, Community Organizations
Voices
Commitment
 
Index Category2009
Commitment2009
Performance2010
TargetPage
Customer Satisfaction: General 
Consumers (Scored out of 5)Improvement 
neededContinued 
improvement 3.73
“Professional Medal and Certificate ” - Ministry of Transportation and Communications
“The Benchmark Enterprise with Best Reputation – First Place in Telecom Services ” – Common -
Wealth Magazine
“Taiwan Conscience Enterprises – 1st Place in the Service Industry ” – 1111 Job Bank
“The Ideal Brand Award – 1st Place in the Telecom Brands category ” – Business Today Magazine
“6th Service Awards – 1st Place in Mobile / Fixed Communications (emome) ” – Next Magazine
“5th Service Awards – 3rd Place in Mobile / Fixed Communications (HiNet) – Next Magazine
“Ideal Consumer Brand in Taiwan – 1st Place in the Mobile Phone System & Data Network Ser-
vices (ADSL) category ” – Management Magazine
“Fixed Broadband Service Provider of the Year Award ” – Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific ICT Awards 
Privacy Protection and 
Combating T elephone 
Fraud
Healthy User 
Environment
Electromagnetic Radiation 
Decision-Making Mecha -
nism and EducationBrand Management and 
Product Promotion
FeedbackCustomer ServiceDisaster Response and 
Responsible Communica -
tionsInnovative V alue-
Added ServicesCustomers, Community 
Organizations49
Brand Management Strategy
CSR Brand DevelopmentThe General Manager of CHT is also the Brand Manager 
in charge of supervising the creation, management and 
modification of all CHT brands. The Brand Manager also 
communicates with the deputy brand manager of each 
business group through the CSR committee. The role of 
deputy brand managers is undertaken by the deputy gen-
eral managers of each business division. Their responsi-
bility is to carry out the overall corporate brand strategy 
as well as promoting their brands in their own way to the 
extent of their authority . 
“Chunghwa Telecom” is the byword for absolute depend-
ability in Taiwan. We have therefore adopted a supportive 
brand framework where all secondary brands are semanti -
cally or visually linked to CHT . 
We have also adopted a variety of performance indicators 
including market/product penetration, customer loyalty/sat -
isfaction, brand value, employee and recruitment/retention 
to measure brand ’s inﬂuence on long-term development.
CHT does not want to be just a “green” brand but also to 
be the No. 1 “Telecom CSR” brand in Taiwan. CSR is a key 
strategy in all of our activities as it helps to boost customer 
acceptance, preference and loyalty. CSR can also enhance 
employee loyalty, creating a positive feedback cycle. For 
this reason, the General Manager (Brand Manager) regu-
larly meets with executives in charge of CSR strategy and 
development to discuss how business strategy and CSR 
strategy can complement each other .
Framework of the Brand ManagementHigh Quality Product/Services
Free Customer EducationIt has always been our strategy to provide high quality 
products/services. In terms of the actual products and 
services, we passed the 3G mobile telephony service qual -
ity survey conducted by the NCC in 2009. The results of 
quality testing from CHT’s data access network are also 
reported to the NCC on a monthly basis. The key perfor-
mance indicators are as listed below and our performance 
has consistently exceeded the standards defined by the 
NCC. 
We are also continuing to strengthen our relationship with 
channel partners to provide our customers with better qual-
ity service.
As the leader of the Taiwanese telecom industry, it 
is the responsibility of the CHT to educate consum-
ers about using telecom equipment/services in an ef-
ficient way. To help smartphone customers make the 
most effective use of their mobile phones, we set up 
nine types of free Dr. mPro training courses on basic 
mobile phone usage and configuration, advanced and 
special features, mPro mobile briefcase and introduc-
tion to the Hami service. A total of 459 classes were 
taught with 7,979 students. Key Performance Indicators for the T ele-
communications Service Industry
Local Call 
Connection 
Rate
Mobile 
Phone 
Interruption 
Rate
Packet Loss 
Rate for 
Digital Com -
munications
Brand Manager
General ManagerDeputy Brand Manager
Deputy General Manager of
data communications subsidiary
Deputy Brand Manager
Deputy General Manager of
mobile communications subsidiaryDeputy Brand Manager
Deputy General Manager of
regional subsidiaries≥ 95.6% 99.99%2007.7.1-
2008.6.30
≤ 3% 0.49%2009.2.1-
2009.4.30
≤ 3% 0.0005%2008.7.1-
2009.6.30NCC 
StandardActual CHT  
PerformanceItem PeriodPR5“Chunghwa Telecom ” has always represented high quality , dependable and localized services. We are 
always thinking about how brand management can be used to make the best use of existing resources, 
differentiate ourselves from our competitors and continuing to track customer requirements. In addition to 
provide high quality telecommunications products/services, we also strive to help our customers make use 
of telecommunications products/services in a more efficient manner .Management
Local Call connection Rate Survey was not conducted by 
NCC in 2009.Note:Brand Management and Product 
Promotion50
Customer Service Quality
ImprovementInternet Support and 
Call Centers
Enterprise Customers
Reducing Contractor T urnoverWe are improving customer service quality by enhancing 
the collaboration between physical and virtual counters. 
By also setting up a coordination mechanism for handling 
complex cases, we can provide customers with a total 
service regardless of the customer type or service chan-
nel. Satisfaction surveys are also carried out at customer 
service centers on counters service, customer service hot-
lines and installation/repair services to improve the quality 
of service in a timely manner .For the customer convenience and the reduction of the 
travel time, we have expanded the scope of our service 
provided in the call centers and internet. For example, 
proof-of-payment can now be resent by just one click in the 
Internet support web site, and “HiNet KOD ” can be applied 
through just one call to the call centers. This is not only 
more convenient for the customer but also more environ-
mental friendly .
Introduced “ON-site Customer Service Quality Survey ” 
in customer service centers to check the overall ser-
vice quality and verify the behavior of customer service 
representatives. 
Implemented the “Inspiring Service – Re-engineering 
Project ” to establish a set of quality service standards, 
improve the quality of counter service and instill the 
values of quality service into our corporate culture. 
Completed “SGS Qualicert” international service qual-
ity certification for all branch counters to maintain a 
high standard of service. 
Implemented automatic monitoring of counter waiting 
times and queue lengths. When the number of cus-
tomers in the queue exceeds a certain multiple of the 
available counters, the system automatically alerts the 
supervisor to assign more staff. Supervisors are also 
required to adopt management by walk about.
Upgraded the computerization of transaction systems 
and counters to more efficiently process applications 
and streamline the application process.Customers with an account manager: An account 
manager is assigned to key customers and high value 
SMEs as their contact window. We also offer enterprise 
customers with custom integrated data and communi-
cations service to help them reduce operating costs. 
Customers without an account manager: We provided 
discount bundles for each branch to promote through 
telephone marketing and customer information ses-
sions as necessary .
We have significantly reduced contractor turnover to 0.75% 
from 3.34% through the consolidation of the outsourcing 
standards for regional customer service contractors, the 
effective evaluation of contractor performance, and the 
adoption of reasonable fixed-price selective tenders. Even 
more, our outsourcing contractors also explicitly require 
the contract to conform to the Labor Standards Act and the 
Labor Safety & Health Act.After all regional customer service centers were consolidated under the Customer Service Department 
in 2007, CHT immediately began introducing international training and certification for customer service 
management in an effort. The move was intended to build the customer service team’s consensus on 
improving the quality of service and meet international customer service benchmarks. Professional cer-
tification training such as AQF (Australian Qualification Framework)) customer service management & 
management, customer communications and skill development were introduced in 2008. In 2009, the 
APCSC (Asia Pacific Customer Service Consortium Customer Service Analyst and Auditor certification 
were introduced between 2009 and 2010. We also introduced process improvements for ISO 9001 certi-
fication and set up a mystery shopper scheme to carry out self-audits from a customer perspective. The 
push for constant improvement is aimed at providing customers with more attentive and better quality 
service.Management Customer Service51
To find out how satisfied customers are with our services 
and their perception of our corporate image, brand value, 
and quality of service, we have commissioned an external 
market research firm every year to survey the customer 
satisfaction of general consumers, SMEs, and large enter -
prise customers. The surveys are aimed at identifying the 
key issues and expectations in each service and provide a 
guide for our future development.Customer Feedback Mechanism Customer Satisfaction Survey
The opinions of our customers are important to us and 
CHT has a 24-hour service window in place that customers 
can use to send us their feedback online, over the phone 
or through e-mails. We have also set up a CPS (Customer 
Opinion Process System) to pass customer feedback (in-
cluding complaints, praise and suggestions) directly to the 
relevant technical/service (e.g. line maintenance, product 
design/marketing, accounting), risk management and pub-
lic relations departments for response. The feedback is 
reviewed every month with customer service at a meeting 
chaired by the deputy general manager of the product sub-
sidiary .
Note: Satisfaction with each service is measured using the 5-point scale: 
Very satisfied, Satisfied, Average, Dissatisfied, These are represented 
by a score of 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 respectively .“First call resolution rate” refers to whether the customer service rep-
resentative was able to provide a complete service “after just one call” 
by the customer .Note:Key Performance Indicators for 
the Customer Service Hotline
Customer
satisfaction
Percentage of 
calls answered 
within 20 seconds
First call 
resolution rateLarge enterprise customer
SME customer
General consumer4.41 4.71 4.74
79.1% 87.1% 82.61%
----- 96.7% 86.17%2007 2008 2009
2007 2008 2009Customer Satisfaction SurveyPR5
PR5
4.784.66 4.67
4.4
4.184.34
3.81
3.663.73CHT values the opinion from every one of our customers and have set up an easy to use customer feed-
back mechanism that is available all year round. CHT also commissions customer satisfaction surveys 
from market research firms each year to identify customer issues and expectations.Management Feedback52
Weather anomalies caused by climate change such as ris-
ing sea levels, drought and heavy rains will all affect the 
placement of telecom exchanges. Maintenance costs for 
telecom services will also increase significantly due to the 
added manpower required for emergency repairs and con-
sumer compensation. For this reason, we stepped up our 
education and awareness efforts in 2009 in the hopes of 
forming a “bottom-up” innovation chain that will help each 
region adapt to problems caused by climate change. 
CHT places a strong emphasis on disaster prevention and 
has emergency repairs teams standing by at all times to 
maintain communications in disaster areas. Our disaster 
prevention preparations include:Typhoon Morakot wreaked havoc on fixed networks and 
mobile phone base stations in parts of southern and 
central Taiwan. CHT immediately mobilized all available 
manpower and resources to make emergency repairs. The 
military was also called in to help transport technicians and 
satellite base station equipment by helicopter. Ultimately, 
a total of 43 sorties were ﬂown, transporting 102 people, 
over 9,610 liters of fuel, 18 power generators and 8 sets of 
satellite communications equipment. 
At the same four-wheel-drive satellite trucks carrying por-
table satellite antenna, base station equipment, diesel 
generators, fuel and repair technicians advanced deep 
into the disaster areas such as Pingtung County ’s Linbian 
Township, Taitung County ’s Dawu and Taimali Townships, 
Kaohsiung County’s Namaxia Township, Jiaxiang Town-
ship, Taoyuan Township, Maolin Township as well as 
Baolai and Laonong in Liugui Township. The teams set up 
emergency satellite base stations and made emergency 
repairs to mobile phone base station. These efforts provide 
disaster rescue units and disaster victims with emergency 
communications that allowed them to “maintain contact ”.Disaster Preparations Maintaining Contact
Annual self-inspection in April each year the typhoon 
season.
Typhoon defenses are inspected in May every year . 
Emergency repair supplies are checked to ensure an 
adequate inventory is on hand and regularly main-
tained. 
Emergency repair machinery are maintained by dedi-
cated staf f and regularly tested. 
Portable satellite phones are tested to ensure they are 
serviceable. 
Emergency repair teams organized and regular drills 
carried out.
Equipment lists and maps are kept up to date so they 
can be quickly restored after a disaster . 
Redundancy is built into the design of switching and 
transmission nodes. 
Central monitoring system automatically manages pri-
mary and secondary backup circuits.
Emergency Mobile Communications V ehicle Fleet
Due to the lessons of Typhoon Morakot CHT not only upgraded existing disaster prevention and response mechanisms 
but also invested $45 million into building a fully computerized operations platform, five emergency repair vehicles with 
heavy cross-road capability , winches and snorkels, satellite communications equipment and 36 sets of portable genera -
tors. The move signaled our determination to ensure that communications will be restored and maintained during future 
disasters so losses can be reduced to a minimum.Emergency Repair Principles for 
Telecommunications NetworksThe most touching moment for field technicians involved with emergency repairs for Typhoon Morakot 
was how “when people finally got through on the mobile phone, both sides started crying. ” When a hur-
ricane strikes, CHT repair teams are immediately mobilized to restore communications to the disaster 
area.  For the repair team, “restore communications first” and “accomplishing the mission ” is the most 
important thing even if they have to bulldoze their way through or carry water pumps to ﬂooded ex-
changes on a bamboo raft. The emergency repairs must also be carried out with zero accidents.Address Disaster Preparations
Satellite phone to maintain contact
Mobile has priority , fiber comes first
Use both satellite and microwave 
communications
Relays have priority followed by fixed 
lines
Watch over the generators and pro -
tect the data centers
Divide into areas of responsibility 
and launch all-out repairsPriority is 
restoring
communicationsEmergency
Repair
Principles53
Chairman Lu surveyed the disaster area at Linbian early in 
the morning on August 10 accompanied by Deputy Gen-
eral Manager Hsieh from CHT South, Manager Su from 
the Pingtung branch and others. At the time, the route 
between the Linbian Fire Department and the Linbian 
Exchange was still under waist-high flood waters so the 
group could only proceed slowly by a telecom engineering 
truck. On the way back, they encountered an old woman 
who was trapped at home with no hot water for milk to 
feed her baby . Chairman Lu immediately gave up the front 
seat of the engineering truck to the old woman and joined 
the other employees on the truck bed piled high with tools 
and supplies. The compassion of CHT employees have 
become another heart-warming local story .On August 16, the Linkou-Zhongzhou fiber-optic cable 
accidentally was severed by the Taiwan Water Company, 
interrupting fixed line, mobile and broadband commu nica-
tions to Chishan, Meinong, Liugui and Jiaxiang. Assistant 
Engineer Lin had already been carrying out emergency 
repairs for 8 straight days but he still immediately set out 
to meet with other CHT personnel. With the No. 21 Taiwan 
Highway half washed out and covered with mud, he nev-
ertheless made a slow and thorough survey using just the 
car’s headlights to find the break. Once he confirmed that 
all four fiber-optic cables were out of service Lin sent an 
emergency rerouting request. Communications was finally 
restored at 3:20AM on August 17. Assistant Engineer Lin was publicly hon-
ored at an audience with President Ma
Chairman Lu checking on the situation in 
Pingtung and personally inspecting the di-
saster area in Linbian.Disaster Response Story 1
Disaster Response Story 2Time: 23:00, August 16.
Employee: Assistant Engineer LIN Zuo-teng
Time: August 10
Employee: Chairman LU, Shyue-ching
54
Network ManagementDisconnection Operations
Telephone Fraud AwarenessThe Fraud Disconnection Operations System (FDOS) was 
set up to refer suspicious phone activity to the police for 
investigation. Three customer service representatives are 
on average assigned each month to helping the police with 
immediately disconnecting suspicious phones to reduce 
the impact of telephone fraud on customers and the gen-
eral public.
More than 100,000 shifts were allocated to the various 
telephone fraud prevention tasks between 2004 and the 
end of 2009. Anti-fraud awareness information was also 
printed on over 1.78 billion account statements, sent 
through over 70 million SMS messages and over 340,000 
suspicious phone records turned over at the request of law 
enforcement. Total cost amounted to over NT$1.8 billion.We helped the government establish the 165 anti-fraud 
hotline in November , 2007. In 2009 an average of 15 cus-
tomer service representatives were assigned each month 
to assist the Criminal Investigation Bureau handle tier-1 
services between 8AM and 8PM weekdays. Key manage -
ment measures included:
Development of the automated communications record 
inquiry system (CRIS)
Encrypted call forwarding for fixed line exchanges.
Blocking of 30 telephone numbers belonging to govern -
ment and private organizations identified by the CIB as 
having been tampered with each day .
Screening of billing data to identify and block fixed lines 
suspected of having been hijacked. 
Caller ID screening service. 
Providing the “Retain 886 country code for international 
calls” function. 
Adjusting the coverage of mobile phone base stations in 
the Kinmen and Mazu regions to prevent remote mobile 
telephone fraud. 
Setting up of anti-tampering alerts for telephone switch 
boxes to prevent the hijacking of telephone lines as well 
as strengthening the management of wiring closets.1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.SMS Spooﬁng Detection System
SMS spoofing is where unethical overseas operators 
manipulate the sender address to send SMS fraud 
messages around the world through CHT network. 
Signal analysis is used by our system to check the 
actual position of overseas SMS senders. If spoofing 
is confirmed, the SMS center is immediately alerted to 
block the message and the victim’s account balance 
corrected.Communications Security
For network and communications security , CHT now offers 
the “HiNet OTP” and “Caller Blacklist ” services for our cus-
tomer’s protection. “HiNet OTP” uses a One Time Pass-
word randomly generated every 60 seconds that can be 
only used once to prevent hackers from hijacking accounts 
or fraud websites from stealing personal data. 
“Caller Blacklist” allows the customer to blacklist a phone 
number they don’t want to take calls from. By default, 
these calls are automatically rejected by the system. Calls 
with hidden caller ID or an unidentifiable number are re-
directed to the voice mailbox instead, effectively protecting 
the customer against organized fraud groups or harass-
ment.
Privacy Protection Measures
All customer details at CHT are rated as “Very Confidential” 
and customer applications stored in locked file cabinets to 
prevent leaks and unauthorized access by customer ser-
vice representatives (including both CHT employees and 
contractors). All employees are required to sign a “Confi-
dentiality Agreement” and their direct superior required to 
take collective responsibility. For outsourced operations 
that involve the use of business secrets the contractor 
and its employees are also required to sign confidentiality 
agreements as well. Subsidiaries are required to report on 
their implementation of customer data protection each year 
while the head office and subsidiaries also conduct sur-
prise audits at service centers to ensure proper protection 
of consumer privacy .The right to privacy is a basic human right and a pillar of modern social order . Since the Computer-
Processed Personal Data Protection Act was introduced, CHT has maintained a comprehensive 
management system that makes use of advanced network technologies. CHT not only works close -
ly with government agencies to combat telephone fraud but is also protecting customer data from 
illegal theft and exploitation through international cooperation.ResponsePrivacy Protection and Combating 
Telephone Fraud55
Improper Content Filtering Time ManagementAdvances in telecommunications services may produce some products and services that have negative 
consequences. We are committed to ensuring that our customers can enjoy a digital lifestyle with com-
plete peace of mind.Response Healthy User Environment
We offer HiNet e-mail customers with a free webmail ser-
vice to deal with the problem of spam. The user can then 
set the webmail service to delete suspected spam directly . 
We also offer parents the K12 mailbox for blocking porno -
graphic spam. The mailbox features include text filtering, 
picture filtering, web feedback and network-side quaran-
tine.
The “HiNet Porno Gatekeeper” service blocks websites 
that may be harmful to children and youths such as por-
nography, violence, suicide, drugs, weapons and gam-
bling without requiring any special settings, software or 
hardware. Our comprehensive black list covers multiple 
languages and is updated once every two hours for a high 
level of safety .Mobile Internet Porno Gatekeeper
To fulfill our duty of care to underage mobile Internet 
customers, CHT offers an industry-leading mobile 
Internet filter service that identifies and blocks por-
nographic web pages in 54 languages (including 
traditional/simplified Chinese, English, Japanese… 
etc.), e-mail links to malicious content, phishing web-
sites, all types of malware (not just Java) and harmful 
content on Youtube and Next Media. CHT conforms 
with the NCC “Regulations for the Rating of Internet 
Content” and our comprehensive blacklist database 
ensures the online safety of CHT  customers. 
CHT expects the service to have 20,000 subscribers 
by the end of 2010 and to reach 50,000 subscribers 
by the end of 201 1.For elementary and junior high school students whose 
self-control are still underdeveloped, parents can opt for 
the “HiNet Online Time Management ” and “3G Talk Easy ” 
service to limit the calling times and call lengths. Our pro-
prietary advanced management features allow the parent 
to effectively to track their children ’s phone/Internet usage 
and bills so they can teach their children good communica -
tion habits.
Potential Consequences Our Response
Improper 
Content
FilteringUse webmail to filter spam
K12 mailbox quarantine
HiNet Porno Gatekeeper
Mobile Internet Porno 
Gatekeeper
Mobile Phone RecyclingSpam e-mail
Pornography
Time Management
Communications
Security
Electronic W asteHealth User Environment
“HiNet Online Time 
Management ”
“3G Talk Easy ”Internet:
Mobile Phone:
לഒၣყၣ༩ٙЍઋeБਗᎇࣛટ՟ၣყၣ༩
ٙᔮబʫ࢙ၾٝᗆ
ၣყၣ༩
ᅳɢeራ௹eۜݭe
͕ໆഃϞ࢔ʫ࢙XCHT uses Cloud technology 
to provide you with always-on 
protection~Can be used with 
network cards, mobile phones 
and smart phones!Reject pornography, vio-
lence, gambling, drugs 
and crime-related harmful 
content on the InternetXAlways-on access to the 
content and knowledge 
on the InternetO
“HiNet OTP ”
“Caller Blacklist ”Internet:
Mobile Phone:
Internet56
Compliance with National Standards
The World Health Organization (WHO) launched a 10-year 
international study at a cost of US$250 Million to study the 
effect of electromagnetic fields on public health in 1996. 
The results were published in Fact Sheet No. 304 by WHO 
in May, 2006, and concluded that “considering the very 
low exposure levels and research results collected to date, 
there is no convincing scientific evidence that the weak RF 
signals from base stations and wireless networks cause 
adverse health effects”. There is therefore no cause for 
concern and the general public is free to enjoy the eco-
nomic benefits and convenience of mobile communica-
tions. 
As for the telecommunications industry, the regulatory 
authority in Taiwan has now set limits on the level of per-
missible EM radiation from base stations. All base stations 
must pass a technical review by the regulator before it may 
enter service. EM radiation should only be measured by 
trained experts using professional instruments. Measure-
ments taken by laymen or improper instruments (e.g. using 
low-frequency Gauss meter to measure high-frequency 
EM waves) increases the chance of invalid readings.
Electro Magnetic Fields: 
http://www .emfsite.org.tw/Community Communication
We have adopted a two-stage approach the communicat-
ing with the general public. Under normal circumstances, 
base stations are beautified and awareness programs run 
to explain their safety. In the event of a dispute, an inde-
pendent third-party agency is commissioned to take mea-
surements
Within CHT we emphasize the beautification of base sta-
tions to reduce their visual impact on the environment and 
the local people. Apart from beautifying the antennae of 
new base stations, we are also retro-fitting existing base 
stations as well. Decorations vary depending on the site 
and surroundings including painting, garden lights, vines 
and other special shapes. By the end of 2009 62% of all 
base station antennae have been beautified.
We partnered with the Taiwan Telecommunications In-
dustry Development Association to set up the “Electro 
Magnetic Fields” website to educate the general public 
about EM radiation. Members of the public that still have 
EM radiation concerns can submit an application to the 
free base station EM radiation measurement hotline (0800-
873888) jointly set up by CHT and other telcos, or request 
a meeting between CHT and the base station ’s stakehold -
ers. If they agree to have the EM radiation measured, we 
will commission an independent company to make on-site 
measurements. The results will be explained to the stake -
holders by experts. The resistance to base stations is now 
showing signs of improvement in 2009 with 158 appeals 
received from the general public, a decrease of 6% on 
2008.Mobile phone technology has now evolved from offering basic voice calls to delivering the latest mobile 
broadband communications. To provide our customers with the most advance and high quality mobile 
communications service, CHT has continued to build and optimize our core networks and base stations. 
Constant increases in wireless transmission rates has enabled an increasing number of wireless Internet 
and multimedia applications that require more bandwidth to run smoothly. The improvements have not 
only increased customer satisfaction but have spurred the development of many entertainment, industrial 
and commercial applications.ResponseElectromagnetic Radiation Decision-Making 
Mechanism and Education57
Smart Phone Mobile Ofﬁce
hifreeHami Book iHome
Hifree is offered as a basic service for CHT that de-
livers the latest online music, video and lifestyle in-
formation straight to their door. No registration, login 
or selection is needed for our subscribers to legally 
access free multimedia content in a secure network 
environment.
The service is expected to have over 10 million by 
the end of May. Currently each subscriber uses the 
service an average of 3.5 hours a day .The Hami mobile phone book store system was de-
veloped by in 2009  in support of the government’s 
policy on creative culture, cloud computing and digi-
tal content industries. 
Hami Book’s use of digital content reduces the 
amount of paper required for printing and also offers 
improved re-readability compared to paper books. 
Benefits include less energy consumption, carbon re-
duction and the ability for book lovers to choose their 
preferred reading environment without being limited 
by the weight of books.The concept is intended to meet customer needs and 
offer them peace of mind, comfort, convenience and 
economy . The smart t elephone serves as the heart of 
the “iHouse” to provide MICE (Monitor/ Information/ 
Communication/ Entertainment) services. Family 
members can use the smartphone to access a wide 
range of lifestyle information, home monitoring, e-
commerce and health management services. 
Chunghwa Telecom developed the “Mobile Inbox of 
the Future” as a mobile office for business people 
on the move. The secure and efficient Push Email 
and document approval solution is compatible with 
iPhone/ Symbian/ Windows Mobile smart phones 
and supports the following e-mail systems: IBM Lo-
tus Notes, Microsoft Exchange Server and standard 
POP/IMAP  mail servers. 
The service has been adopted by many enterprises 
since t was launched in October 2009. Our competitiveness has always been based on our ability to meet customer requirements. CHT has 
therefore continued to leverage our competitive advantage by providing a variety of integrated and value-
added services. In addition to new subscription upgrade packages, new digital lifestyle value-added ser-
vices are also constantly being released in response to the change in consumer habits from digital con-
vergence in order to boost their customer benefits.TargetInnovative V alue-Added Services
Alerts
Performance 
indicators
Order 
managementOperational 
status
Expense
review
Attendance 
managementIn the rapidly changing times, CHT is committed to creating a digital 
inclusive society. There is no gap in this information society. The 
individual will have equal opportunities to access the information re-
gardless education level, sex, age, race and residential areas. 
 CHT and CHT Foundation believes: “Make good use of computers, 
computer is good; make good use of the Internet, the Internet is 
good; make good use of the opportunity , the opportunity is good. ” In 
the process of addressing the digital divide and create digital oppor -
tunities, we emphasis on the importance of the integration of tech-
nology , software and volunteers. The same principle also applies to 
our reconstruction for post-T yphoon Morakot Disaster .59
P62
P61
P611,023
100The digital gap can be made up 
with the computer and the Inter -
net, but is this enough?
We continue to create assessable 
results of digital opportunities.Digital 
      Opportunities 
Local communities and civil groups
Voices
Commitment
Index Category2009
Commitment2009
Performance2010
TargetPage
NCC ’s  widely-accessible  services 
policy
Offering computer courses in 
remote areas (hour) 
People in remote areas acquiring 
the TQC certificate (people) Compliance 
needed
To set up 
indexes
To set up 
indexesContinued 
compliance
To continue
to increase
To continue
to increaseEnforced
Telecom Universal Service Award - Best V olunteer Team by National Communications 
Commission (NCC)
Telecom Universal Service Award - Best Construction Award by NCC
Telecom Universal Service Award - Best Access Service Promotion Award by NCC
Telecom Universal Service Award - Best Customer Care Award by NCC
Chunghwa T elecom 
FoundationDigital Good Neighbor Universal T elecom 
ServicesDigital Character Local communi -
ties and civil 
groups60
Our Mission and W ork Approaches
The Chunghwa Telecom Foundation combines the core 
ability of the telecommunications industry and various so-
cial resources, to assist communities with development of 
the culture industry , to narrow the digital gap, and to culti-
vate lives in local communities. Local culture is the motif of 
our work, and community participation is the starting point 
of our services. We hope to contribute our efforts to com-
munity development in Taiwan. Our major work includes: 
The Chunghwa Telecom Foundation 
http://www .chtf.org.tw/
Click Taiwan
http://www .clicktaiwan.com.twThe foundation of the digital opportunities was laid by Chun-
ghwa Telecom’s employees who went deep into remote areas 
and shouldered most of the broadband installation tasks. With 
the backup of hardware facilities, we further donate products 
or services or provided other special offers. The Foundation 
and corporate volunteers also have dedicated themselves to 
educating the remote population. Besides our attention to the 
next generation’s growth, we also assist with development of 
the local culture industry, and we are concerned about the dis-
advantaged groups. With bottom-up and multi-faceted efforts, 
we hope to make Taiwan become a digital-inclusion society.To assist with the local culture industry: We construct 
the “Click Taiwan” website, offering the local community 
industry a platform for information exchange. We hope 
that through words, images and videos, we can keep a 
record of their efforts and stories in local communities 
together .
To narrow the digital gap: We narrow the digital gap 
by establishing the Digital Good Neighbor project in 
remote areas and tribal villages. Besides installing fa-
cilities and the broadband Internet, we introduce social 
resources and corporate volunteers to improve the 
quality of life, education, and industry in the communi -
ties.
To cultivate lives in local communities: We continue to 
care about and engage in the communities. Through 
providing various volunteer services, we help commu-
nities with their sustainable development.To fulfill the promise of creating digital opportunities, Chunghwa Telecom officially founded the Chunghwa 
Telecom Foundation in 2006 and passed the Foundation bylaw . The Digital Opportunities Group was es-
tablished under the CSR Committee, committing itself to promoting projects on narrowing the digital gap.
Illustration of Creation of Digital OpportunitiesManagement Chunghwa T elecom Foundation
Create Digital 
Opportunities
Education Industry Culture Charities
Chunghwa Telecom Foundation
Corporate V olunteer Service
Product/Services Donation
Hardware Infrastructure61
TQC Computer Certiﬁcate Courses Make Good Use and Do Good
The ideal of the Digital Good Neighbor is that letting every -
one “make good use” of computers and “do good ” through 
computers; everyone can “make good use” of the Internet, 
and “do good ” through the Internet; the ultimate goal is to 
make everyone “make good use” of opportunities, and “do 
good ” through the Internet. 
This ideal came from reflection upon years of practices. 
We found that to narrow the digital gap is not to simply give 
away computers or deploy the Internet. If there is a lack in 
proper guidance from the surroundings, the next genera-
tion might use the Internet wrongly and cause more social 
problems.
In addition, the digital gap does not only exist between the 
urban and the rural. There are one million people in New 
Taipei City solely who are computer illiterate. The digital 
gap in the urban area is a miniature of that in Taiwan. 
“Do not fail to do good even if it’s small; do not engage in 
evil even if it’s small. ” The Chunghwa Telecom Foundation 
continues to deepen and cultivate the power of technology , 
making it well applied on creating social welfare.“In order to tangibly evaluate the effects of promoting 
digital opportunities, and practice the idea of making 
good use of computers and making them do good,” we 
started to assist people in remote areas with acquiring 
the TQC computer certificate courses, and meanwhile, 
we could ensure their learning effects. There have been 
135 people taking the test, and 100 have passed. The 
passing rate was 74%. 
We also have provided computer-related courses for 
1,023 hours, helping people in remote areas to make 
use of resources on the Internet. In 2010, we will intro-
duce computer courses that reinforce the application on 
daily life, and will keep promoting the TQC certificate 
test.
Computer Courses for New Residents
The new resident mother in Jingliao Village in Tainan 
County takes computer courses under the Digital 
Good Neighbor Project on Tuesdays and Thursdays.We started the project “Digital Good Neighbor ” in 2006. Together with 24,000 employees across the na-
tion, we worked on fulfilling the corporate promise of creating digital opportunities. By the end of 2009, 
we have established 43 Digital Good Neighbors, and donated 658 computers and 355 sets of software 
equipment to remote areas and tribal villages. We introduced the service provided by our corporate vol-
unteers and various resources to communities according to their specific needs.Address Digital Good Neighbor62
Common Satellite Shared Discs 
Project Investment on the InfrastructureWe have worked on the long-term policy objective that citizens are guaranteed with their basic rights 
to telecommunications and that they have fair and wide access to telecom services. At present, the 
house- hold penetration rate for fixed line telephone services in Taiwan is 96.8%. We have provided over 
220,000households with telephone services and more than 30,000 households with data communication 
services in over 81 remote and economically deprived areas; over 19,000 sets of public telephones in 25 
administrative districts; more than 3,700 primary and high schools and public libraries with data commu -
nication services. In 2009, Chunghwa Telecom spent a total of NT$978 million on the widely-accessible 
services.Response Universal T elecom Services
Broadband Access to T ribal 
Villages
We actively assisted the National Communications Com-
mission (NCC) with the policy on the universal telecom 
services, so that we provided residents in remote areas 
with the broadband network and narrowed the digital gap 
between the urban and the rural. In 2007, we constructed 
broadband infrastructure in 43 villages among 46 (93.5%) 
under the project “Broadband for Villages.” In 2008, we 
constructed broadband infrastructure in 42 villages among 
50 (84%) under the project “Broadband for Tribes ”. 
At the “Universal Services and Civic Participation” award 
ceremony for the third anniversary of NCC’s foundation, 
we won four prizes in total: “Telecom Universal Service 
Award - Best Customer Care Award,” “Telecom Universal 
Service Award - Best Construction Award,” “Telecom Uni-
versal Service Award - Best Access Service Promotion 
Award,” “Telecom Universal Service Award - Best Volun-
teer Award. ”
In 2009, NCC continued to promote construction of broad -
band infrastructure in 51 tribal villages. In order to well 
take corporate responsibility , we were responsible for more 
than 90% of them, which accounted for 48 villages in total, 
distributed across 12 counties.Commissioned by the Council of Indigenous Peoples, Ex-
ecutive Yuan, we have constructed a direct satellite broad -
cast system to improve the TV signal reception in tribal 
villages since 2004. By the end of 2009, we have installed 
the system in 71,228 households.Responding to the government ’s promotion of major public 
investments, we expect ourselves to facilitate development 
of the industries and generate the most economic benefits, 
by taking advantage of our core ICT ability. The govern-
ment plans that the coverage rate of broadband (>30Mbps) 
will reach 80% by 2012. However , by the end of 2009, the 
broadband coverage rate already reached 73%, so that 
the policy objective will be achieved successfully . In 2009, 
Taiwan ’s FTTB penetration rate by households was ranked 
the fourth worldwide, only next to Korea, Hong Kong and 
Japan.
Due to rapid growth in the broadband internet in the Asia-
Pacific region, we continue to expand the capacity of cur-
rent undersea cables and engage ourselves in establishing 
new undersea cable systems, to satisfy the need of cor-
porate customers for increasing bandwidth. In May 2009, 
we announced the cooperation with major telecom com-
panies in the Asia-Pacific Region in constructing the new 
undersea cable in East Asia “Asia-Pacific Gateway ” (APG), 
which is estimated to be completed and launched in 201 1.
Taiwan T elecom Penetration Rate (%) PA4
2007 2008 2009
105.9
63.8110.3
65.6116.6
64Mobile 
phones
Broadband 
Internet63
Reading Companions for 
Disaster-Affected ChildrenFrom the Digital Opportunity to the 
Cloud Computing Services
To nurture children ’s heart through reading, the Chunghwa 
Telecom Foundation picked and gave 300 psychologi-
cal healing picture books to children in Jialutang Military 
Camp in Fangshan Township, Fongshan Military Academy , 
Fongshiung Military Camp and Jingling Military Camp in 
Yenchao Township, and Renmei Military Camp in Dashu 
Township, Dahsin Elementary School in Jiadong Town-
ship, and Hengchun Christian Hospital in Pingtung. During 
September and October , the Chunghwa Telecom Founda -
tion also worked with the Hengchun Christian Hospital on 
a “Mobile Book Wagon” project: we went to the Jialutang 
Miliary Camp for two days, with one volunteer accompany -
ing the children to read there.After years of promoting digital opportunities, we have real-
ized that the digital gap is not simply a gap in facilities, but 
a gap in abilities to make use of information. For individu -
als, the ability to read serves as the base of using various 
internet services. For the whole society, the general pub-
lic’s ability to apply information is the base of developing 
new industries such as the cloud computing. So our long-
term goal is to develop better social soil as the base and 
cultivate every digital opportunity. We hope to make Taiwan 
a genuine benchmark for information
Read First and You Can Surf the Internet
In the Digital Good Neighbor in Xidiyao in Nantou, 
children have to read first for 30 minutes before they 
use the computer. It is because we are convinced that 
a habit to read formed in the childhood will enable 
these children to better use the power of technology 
in the future.
We are aware that the key to creating digital opportunities is to cultivate the digital character of the next 
generation. Facing the virtual world that computers and the Internet create together, adults are not the 
only one that needs to tell the basic difference between ¨use them well© and ¨use them poorly;© it is 
the next generation that needs an opportunity to learn how to correctly use the Internet. This is what chal-
lenges the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation the most, as well as where the importance of corporate social 
responsibility lies.Target Digital Character64
    
1,556,467P47
P65The point in giving a hand to peo -
ple is to give the most needed the 
best.
The amount of social contribution 
will rise and get closer to the stan -
dards of the international bench -
mark.Social 
      Philanthropy
Employees, local communities, 
                          and disadvantaged groups
Voices
Commitment
 
Index Category2009
Commitment2009
Performance2010
TargetPage
Service of corporate 
volunteers (hour)
Amount of Social Contribution 
(thousand NT$)To set up 
indexes
To continue to 
increaseTo continue
to increase
To continue 
to increase
Certificate of Appreciation by The 921 Earthquake Relief Foundation 
Management of social 
contributionReconstruction after 
Typhoon Morakot
E-tutoring Projects for 
School Children in the 
Devastated AreasE-tutoring Projects for 
School Children in the 
Devastated AreasDeveloping Prod -
ucts for Special 
NeedsEmployees, local commu -
nities, and disadvantaged 
groups41,97965
In the “2009 CSR Report, ” we calculated “social contribution as a percentage of the operating profit. ” In order to make comparison, modi -
fications are therefore provided.Note:The T otal of Social Contribution (Thousand)
CashCharitable 
donationsCommunity 
investmentBusiness 
advocacy
Products or Services
Total 2008
NT$71,380 NT$ 165,044
NT$ 1,391,422
NT$ 1,556,467NT$176,136
NT$247,5162009 TypesTypes of Social Contribution Activities
EC8Chunghwa Telecom considers that social contribution is 
not simply to give something away . How to reinforce quan -
tification of the management and communication is even 
more important. In 2009, we divided social contribution 
into three categories: charitable donations, community 
investment, and business advocacy, in the hope that we 
can strengthen communication with internal and external 
stakeholders with transparency .After Typhoon Morakot stroke Taiwan, we immediately 
announced¨a corporate donation of NT$20 million for 
typhoon relief,©and invited all of the employees to make 
donations. Donations from the employees amounted to 
NT$45,725,973dwhich was already remitted to the relief 
account of the Ministry of the Interior .
Employee donations do not account for the amount of social 
contribution.Note: Social Contribution Donations for T yphoon Relief
EC8
27%
68%5%It is estimated that Chunghwa Telecom§s social contribution in 2008 amounted to NT$247.51 million. 
In 2009, it was even increased to NT$1,556.46 million. The three main reasons for the increase are: 1. 
the special offer and assistance for relief of the Typhoon Morakot aftermath; 2. Sponsorship for telecom -
munications facilities for the W orld Games in Kaohsiung and the Deﬂympics in Taipei; 3. Intensification of 
the accounting management of CSR information, with a detailed list of donation in terms of products and 
services.Management
 Management of social contribution66
To ensure clear communications in the devastated area 
and meanwhile subsidize the victims, we provided more 
temporary jobs for them by hiring the aboriginal youth to 
support the work on saving base stations and transporting 
the necessities. Our work covered these areas: Laiji in Mt 
Ali, Lijia, Yuntan in Meishan, Changshu Lake, Liuguei in 
Kaohsiung, Taoyuan, Namasia, and Wutai in Pingtung. The 
total of the pay cheques was more than NT$480,000, and 
more than 600 aboriginal youth were therefore benefited.To show our concerns for customers in the devastated 
area, we provided various special offers on telecom servic -
es fees, including a discount on the monthly cost and the 
calling feefree replacement of a new SIM card, the cable 
modems, and the set-top-box, and etc.To assist the official settlement center and other civil 
groups with relief, we provided 90 mobile phone, 54 satel -
lite phones, 253 telephones, 168 public phones, and 75 
broadband Internet accesses, 22 dedicated lines and 16 
MOD accesses.
To help villagers in the shelters in Nantou, Chiayi, Fong-
shan and Taidong to surf the Internet, 108 corporate volun -
teers provided the service. The accumulated service time 
was 633 hours.
Increasing Job OpportunitiesSpecial Offers of T elecom Services 
for the T yphoon-AffectedFree Communication Facilities and 
Corporate V olunteer ServiceAssisting the Government with 
Reconstruction
Marketing agricultural produces in 
disastrous areasWe assisted the Morakot Post-Disaster Reconstruction 
Council with the construction of permanent houses, instal -
lation of telecommunications channels, the Internet, copper 
cables, optical cables, MSAN devices, to provide services 
of local calls, broadband, and MOD. We spent approxi-
mately NT$16 million in Yuemei Farm in Shanlin Township, 
and about NT$13 million in Majia Farm in Majia Township. 
We continue to pay attention to the development of the 
industry in the devastated areas. In order to provide proper 
space for business, we started to convert the operation 
offices in Fongshan, Chiayi, Pingtung and Taitung into the 
Chunghwa Telecom Passing-the-Love Markets. Farmers 
in Mingzu Village in Namasia Township and Siaolin Village 
in Jiasian Township in Kaohsiung, Jinfong Township in Tai-
tung, which are the most severely damaged, were invited 
to sell their agricultural products here. Our employees and 
customers were therefore provided with an opportunity to 
show their concerns for the victims.
The T ribal Handcraft Classroom
The tribal handcraft teachers from the Minzu Village 
in the Namasia Township were busy collecting weav -
ing materials after arriving in the shelter and taught 
tribal women to weave, to distract their attention from 
the disaster. They were encouraged to weave their 
love for the lost family and home into their works. 
Such works are also available in the Passing-the-love 
Market.Typhoon Morakot devastated the eastern and southern areas  in Taiwan.  We by all means  helped with the 
government ’s rescue, relief and settlement work and tried to figure out how to make most of the coopera -
tion of the public and private sectors to accompany the victims on the road of reconstruction.Address Reconstruction after T yphoon Morakot67
In December 2009, the Virtual Elementary School, 
the experiential project that the Chunghwa Telecom 
Foundation practiced in the Majia Township, Ping-
tung County, officially started the E-Tutoring for 
School Children in the Typhoon Morakot Devastated 
Areas Project. We will continue to look for proper 
locations and partners in the devastated areas, in 
order to help more affected school children.  Fund-
ing of this project will be provided from the corporate 
donation of NT$20 million for typhoon relief that we 
publicly announced.Our idea about education is to provide the most needed 
with the best. Lesson designs that are one-on-one on-line 
and customized can better fit the needs of students. There-
fore, it is more efficient than asking a teacher to come all 
the way here and teach quite a few students at one time. 
We solved problems like the unstable Internet and low 
transmission rate. The group from the Fu Jen Catholic Uni-
versity was responsible for selection of volunteer tutors. 
Compared with traditional tutoring, what one-on-one e-
tutoring requires are more than computers on both the 
teacher and the student sides. To facilitate on-line interac -
tion between the teacher and student, software equipment 
and hardware equipment like a web camera, a pentop 
computer, and handwritten ﬂashcards are also necessary. 
Thus, a set of facilities can cost as much as NT$35,000. 
However , it is worth it to see children ’s serious attitudes to-
wards learning and their facial expressions while interact-
ing with the teachers.Continuous Projects Advantages of E-tutoring
E-Tutoring Framework
Our online tutoring environment is divided into teach -
ing end and learning end. Each has a personalized 
equipment to facilitate one-on-one distance learning.aIn the process of company , we gradually figured out the approach to support the long-term reconstruc -
tion in the devastated areas. We think the key is to improve the education environment for children who 
are now doubly disadvantaged. W e started to cooperate with the Fu Jen Catholic University in May 2008, 
working on the E-Tutoring Project for School Children in Remote Areas. Enough experiences have been 
accumulated ever since, and it is officially changed into the E-Tutoring Project for School Children in the 
Devastated Areas.AddressE-tutoring Projects for School Children in the 
Devastated Areas
Teaching end
Teaching platform: 
Video Conference SystemLearning endInternetCamera Camera
Headset Headset
PC PC
Tablet Tablet68
The Public-Help-Search System
Toll-Free Numbers and Public SMS 
ServicesGMDSS
Low-income households and 
Disadvantaged Groups“The Public-Help-Search System” invented by the Tele-
communications Laboratories was provided with one-year 
free trial for charities such as the Child Welfare League 
Foundation and the Seeks Association Center of the Fed-
eration for the Welfare of the Elderly . Through approaches 
such as MOD, HiNet, Hichannel, emome, Xuite, e-bills, 
greeting letters to customers, and mobile DM, we deliver 
messages of help-search volunteer recruitment. At the ear-
ly stage we would recruit mobile phone users of Chunghwa 
Telecom to join this project, hoping to make use of MMS to 
expand the broadcast. It requires more attention for miss-
ing children, teenagers and seniors to find their way home.
The Public-Help-Search System
 https://mfind.echt.com.tw
We provide various toll-free numbers (local telephone and 
mobile), such as 110 (police), 113 (children and women 
protection), 118 (coastline crime reporting), 119 (fire), 
165 (antifraud inquiry), 1922 (national epidemic situation 
report), and 1957 (assistance), a total of eight numbers. 
Besides, we also send SMS messages to assist the gov-
ernment in promoting policies and orders. In 2009, the ac-
cumulated fees reached to almost NT$99.44 million.Our coastal radio stations, in coordination with the national 
policies as well as rules of the international organizations, 
are assigned by the Ministry of Transportation and Com-
munications to deploy a communications service called 
“Global Maritime Distress and Safety System (GMDSS).” 
The service provides local and foreign vessels in our sea 
regions with free information on communications with the 
land in case of emergencies, navigation safety, rescue 
plan, and international news. The service is also respon-
sible for the communication work in case of any dangers 
or accidents on the sea. The Ministry of Transportation and 
Communications allocated a NT$ 38.95 million subsidy 
grant for this service. Our actual business expenditure was 
approximately NT$100.491 million. In 2009, 136 emergen -
cy radio transmissions were deployed. Out of 136 emer-
gency radio transmissions deployed, there were 51 ship-
wrecks in particular and 264 people were rescued. There 
were also 46,135 DSC safety calls and 165,378 times of 
navigation warning telex (NA VTEX) were issued.
For low-income households and the disadvantaged groups 
like the physically and mentally challenged, we provide 
various discount plans on the broadband Internet and 
phone cards, to help them enjoy high-performance telecom 
services with low charge.
Special telecom offers for low-income households and disadvantaged groups
Offers 2008
7,030 11,880
6,958
2,084
2,222
2,127
2,2995,633
1,022
1,170
1,499
1,5582009
NT$600 phone card discount for low-income households per year (household)
Discount on the broadband Internet for low-income households (household)
Discount on the broadband Internet for the physically and mentally challenged (household)
NT$200 phone card discount for the visually impaired (person)
Special of fer of the Care Plan 1 (person)
Special of fer of the Care Plan 2 (person)With our core ability and expertise, Chunghwa Telecom provides various charitable telecom services with 
society. From as early as filial calls for the prisoners to the latest “The Public-Help-Search System,” we 
have aimed to improve social welfare and solve social problems.Response
Note1:
Note2:Visually impaired, hearing impaired or speech impaired person may select the “2G-88 type” or “3G-183 type” service plan, and will be offered the same 
amount of credit (free monthly credit of NT$88 or NT$183). That is, including the monthly fee, the impaired person can enjoy NT$176 or NT$366 of talk 
time per month.
Hearing impaired or speech impaired person may select the “2G-188 type” or “3G -183 type” service plan, and will receive the bonus offer of 300 free text 
messages (same network) or 100 free text messages (dif ferent network).Charitable T elecom Services69
Barrier-free Deaﬂympics Obstruction-free W orld Games
While Chunghwa Telecom helped with planning the “World 
Deaf Swimming Championships ” and the “Taipei Invitation -
al Games for the Deaf ” in 2007 and 2008 respectively , we 
already started to consider telecom-relevant services that 
the hearing impaired would need. All of our efforts paid off 
while we sponsored the 2009 Deaﬂympics in Taipei.
The 2009 Deaﬂympics in Taipei was the first time for the 
Deaﬂympics to happen in an Asian city. We were well pre-
pared for what could facilitate the information communica -
tion for the hearing impaired by taking care of aspects like 
services, technology and businesses. Besides, we had 
customized plans with special offers such as the video-
phone.
In the outdoor MOD live broadcasting of the open ceremo -
ny, we added the service of instruction in sign language. 
Therefore, all of the hearing impaired could have a good 
grasp of the games and felt the stirring atmosphere.Responding to the M-Taiwan Project hosted by the Indus -
trial Development Bureau, Ministry of Economic Affairs, we 
made investments of over NT$300 million, completed 25 
WiMAX base stations and provided WiMAX services dur-
ing the time the W orld Games were held.
In addition to the wireless broadband Internet provided for 
citizens, we also provided wireless services such as the 
mobile remote monitor, the mobile navigator, the value-
added broadband platform, and the ITS. 
Because of the wireless services of Chunghwa Telecom, 
the World Games in Kaohsiung showed a different per-
spective to all: reporters could submit their coverage any-
time; referees and athletes could check up the games any 
time; taxi services were available through the information 
dispatch system; the audience could watch games on their 
mobile phone, computer , and the new media-MOD.
Dream without Limits, and Shine 
around the W orld
Chunghwa Telecom has sponsored the tennis player 
Yen-Hsun Lu since 2009 as a good companion for 
the top athletes who pursue their dreams around the 
world. Besides, we also sponsored cyclists Po-Hung 
Wu, Ting-Yin Huang and the Chunghwa Telecom 
Women ’s Basketball Team.A thoughtful communication design can strengthen communication between specific communities and society, and 
improving the quality of life is one of the corporate social responsibilities of the telecommunications industry; we 
sponsor great games with state-of-the-art technology, to broaden the horizons of the general public and stretch the 
imagination of future urban life.Target Developing Products for Special Needs70The Chunghwa Telecom Foundation started to promote 
the Digital Good Neighbor Project four years ago. Directed 
by Pastor Chiu-An Wu from the Presbyterian Church, the 
computer lab in Jingliao, Houbi Township, has been rather 
outstanding. It is the power recharge station in the eyes of 
the new residents. 
Because there were courses of webpage design and 
multimedia editing, students in the after school in Jingliao 
were accustomed to using their camera to keep a record 
of everything around them with their specific perspective. 
When Typhoon Morakot hit Taiwan, Bajang River overﬂew 
the embankment and flooded the computer lab. The first 
thing these children did afterwards was to take pictures of 
the aftermath and uploaded them to the website of Click 
Taiwan of Chunghwa Telecom. “After these children grow 
up, my dream will not be far away ,” said Pastor W u.“One of my biggest dreams is that one day farmers in Jingliao will sell their agriculture produces online without being 
exploited by businessmen.” 
“When anything emergency happens in the future world, the Internet world will play a more and more important role. Our 
dream is to connect the Internet world and the actual world.”Listen to Their Stories 1
Listen to Their Stories 2Project: Digital Good Neighbor--Jingliao V illage, Tainan County .
Storyteller: Pastor Chiu-An W u
Project: Typhoon Morakot Online Disaster Report Center
Storyteller: Ting-Y ao Hsu, Chair of the Association of Digital Culture
Click T aiwan
In 2009 Chunghwa Telecom gave it a new try: We 
financially supported 20 students from the Chengchi  
University to engage 10 Digital Good Neighbors. They 
chose community industries or special communities 
that have a local character or full of cultural heritage. 
They kept a record of their stories with documentaries, 
expecting to put together a picture with local Taiwanese 
lives and the humanities. More stories on Click Taiwan:
http://www.clicktaiwan.com.tw/twspot/about.htm
A group of young people who built the relationships with 
Chunghwa Telecom in 2008 because of the “Puncar Ac-
tion,” started to establish the Typhoon Morakot Online 
Disaster Report Center during the early hours of the morn -
ing on August 9th. They integrated disaster reports of all 
sources through Twitter and Plurk in the hope of filtering 
information for rescue assistance and relief. 
Similarly, the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation actively 
provided assistance at the first possible time. Besides 
coordinating the Research, Development and Evaluation 
Commission to borrow 40 3.5G USB modems, it also pro-
vided the Center with unlimited bandwidth and facilities. 
The Center therefore had enough strength to become the 
emergency operations center on the Internet during the 
most difficult two weeks for rescue.  
“We appreciate Chunghwa Telecom’s help, so that an 
Otaku person can become a rescue hero,” said Ting-Yao 
Hsu, Chair of the Association of Digital Culture.Puncar Action
In 2008, three young men and a second-hand micro-
bus together created the “Puncar Action.” They made 
known of the idea “delivering an Otaku person to a 
remote village to teach computer courses,” and was 
awarded the “Digital Community Award” at the Austrian 
Digital Arts Festival. Their first piece of sponsorship was 
from the Chunghwa Telecom Foundation.
Puncar Action
http://puncar.tw/717273GRI G3 CONTENT  INDEX
Disclosure ItemsChunghwa Telecom ’s 
ResponsesPage
Statement from the most senior decision maker of the orga -
nization about the relevance of sustainability to the organiza -
tion and its strategy .
Name of the organization.Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.
Primary brands, products, and/or services.
Date of most recent previous report .Operational structure of the organization, including main divi -
sions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.
Reporting cycle.Location of organization ’s headquarters.
Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.Number of countries where the organization operates, and 
names of countries with either major operations or that are 
specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the 
report.
Process for defining report content.Nature of ownership and legal form.
Boundary of the report.Markets served.
State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 
report.Scale of the reporting organization.
Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 
facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 
significantly af fect comparability from period to period and/or 
between organizations.
Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, 
including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 
applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other informa -
tion in the report.Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 
size, structure, or ownership.
Awards received in the reporting period.
Explanation of the ef fect of any re-statements of informa -
tion provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such 
re-statement.
Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 
scope, boundary , or measurement methods applied in the 
report.
Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in 
the report.
Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 
assurance for the report.Message from CEO
Chunghwa Telecom Co., LtdRisk Management
Operational Development
2009.09.06Operational Development, 
Subsidiaries
Yearly21-3 Hsinyi Road, Sec, 1, 
Taipei, Taiwan 100 R.O.C.
Purpose of the ReportSubsidiaries
Key Issues MatrixShareholder Composition
Purpose of the ReportMarket Position
Purpose of the Report
Purpose of the ReportMarket Position
No significant changes
(Demo as Note after 
Each Table)Awards W on
No re-statements
No significant changes
GRI G3 Content Index
Assurance Statement1.1
2.11.2
2.2
3.22.3
3.32.4
3.42.5
3.52.6
3.62.7
3.72.8
3.82.9
3.92.10
3.10
3.11
3.12
3.13Profile
Strategy 
and 
Analysis
Organizational 
Profile
Report 
Parameters1
18, 19
4, 5, 49
4, 5
- -
- -- -
Reporting period for information provided. 2009.01~2009.12 3.1 - -
- -
- -
- -
- -
- -
- -
- -
- -
- -
73~80
71, 727, 15, 23, 31, 
41, 48, 59, 645
1116
5
574Disclosure on Management Approach Corporate Governance
Direct economic value generated and distributed, including 
revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, dona -
tions and other community investments, retained earnings, 
and payments to capital providers and governments.Operational DevelopmentEconomic 
EC1Economic 
Performance416Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 
of engagement by type and by stakeholder group.
Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 
stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has re -
sponded to those key topics and concerns, including through 
its reporting.CSR Survey on Stakeholders
Key Issues Matrix4.16
4.1710
11Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 
whom to engage.Communication and Opinion 
Exchange with Stakeholders4.15 12Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach 
or principle is addressed by the organization.
Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 
charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organiza -
tion subscribes or endorses.
Memberships in associations and/or national/international 
advocacy organizations.
List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state 
the number of members of the highest governance body that 
are independent and/or non-executive members.
Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide rec -
ommendations or direction to the highest governance body .
Linkage between compensation for members of the highest 
governance body , senior managers, and executives, and the 
organization ’s performance.
Processes in place for the highest governance body to 
ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided.
Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the 
members of the highest governance body for guiding the or -
ganization ’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social 
topics.
Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes 
of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmen -
tal, and social performance and the status of their implemen -
tation.
Procedures of the highest governance body for oversee -
ing the organization ’s identification and management of 
economic, environmental, and social performance, including 
relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compli -
ance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, 
and principles.
Processes for evaluating the highest governance body ’s own 
performance, particularly with respect to economic, environ -
mental, and social performance.
Risk Management
Corporate Social Re -
sponsibility Practice Best 
Principles for TWSE/GTSM 
Listed Companies
Internationalization of R&D 
Results
Communication and Opinion 
Exchange with StakeholdersCorporate Governance
Operation of the Board of 
Directors, Harmony in Labor 
Relations.
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
CSR Management Model: 
SMAR T
CSR Management Model: 
SMAR T
CSR Management Model: 
SMAR T
CSR Management Model: 
SMAR T
4.11
4.12
4.13
4.144.3
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.7
4.8
4.9
4.10Governance, 
Commitments, 
and Engagement
18, 19
9
30
1216
16, 43
16
16
8
8
8
8Governance structure of the organization, including com -
mittees under the highest governance body responsible for 
specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational 
oversight.
Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is 
also an executive officer .Corporate Governance
No4.1
4.2 - -1675Disclosure on Management ApproachEnvironmental Sustainability 
Management SystemRange of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to 
local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.
Development and impact of infrastructure investments and 
services provided primarily for public benefit through com -
mercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement.Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 
organization ’s activities due to climate change.
Understanding and describing significant indirect economic 
impacts, including the extent of impacts.Coverage of the organization ’s defined benefit plan obligations.
Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior manage -
ment hired from the local community at locations of significant 
operation.Significant financial assistance received from government.
Harmony in Labor Relations
Management of social 
contribution
Management of social 
contributionRisks and opportunities regarding 
regulations on climate Change
Ethical Supply Chain Man -
agement in the Telecommuni -
cations IndustryRetirement Protection
Increasing EmploymentNo Financial Aid from 
Government
Environmental EC5
EC8EC2
EC6
EC9EC3
EC7EC4Economic 
Performance
MaterialsMarket Presence
EnergyIndirect 
Economic Impacts
Water3443
6519
39
6546
44- -
BiodiversityMaterials used by weight or volume.
Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.
Total water withdrawal by source.Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.
Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy 
based products and services, and reductions in energy re -
quirements as a result of these initiatives. 
Water sources significantly af fected by withdrawal of water .
Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 
Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reduc -
tions achieved.Indirect energy consumption by primary source.
Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or 
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 
value outside protected areas.
Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and 
services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areas.
Habitats protected or restored.
Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing 
impacts on biodiversity .
Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation 
list species with habitats in areas af fected by operations, by 
level of extinction risk.An Overview of 
Environmental Impacts
An Overview of 
Environmental Impacts
An Overview of 
Environmental Impacts
An Overview of 
Environmental Impacts
An Overview of 
Environmental ImpactsEnergy- Saving Targets
Solar Power Supply System
No such cases
Water Resources ManagmentTelecom Green Buildings 
Action
(No Fixed Assets in 
Such Areas)
No such cases
No such cases
No such casesEnvironmental Protection 
ActionsEN1
EN5
EN8EN2
EN6
EN9
EN10EN3
EN7EN4
EN11
EN12
EN13
EN14
EN1535
33
35
- -
- -
- -
- -
- -35
37
3435
3635
38Policy , practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based 
suppliers at significant locations of operation.76Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, 
and region.
Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, 
gender , and region.Diversity
DiversityLA1
LA2Employment42
42Significant environmental impacts of transporting products 
and other goods and materials used for the organization ’s 
operations, and transporting members of the workforce.
Total environmental protection expenditures and 
investments by type.An Overview of 
Environmental Impacts
Expenditure on 
Environmental ProtectionEN29
EN30Transport
Overall35
37
Disclosure on Management ApproachDiversity , Recruitment 
and TrainingLabor Practices and 
Decent W ork42, 44Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and 
services, and extent of impact mitigation.
Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-
monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental 
laws and regulations.Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials 
that are reclaimed by category .eICT  Innovation , 
Ethical Consumption
Ethical ConsumptionEN26
EN28EN27Products 
and 
Services
Compliance - -26, 38
38Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.
Total number and volume of significant spills.
Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste 
deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention 
Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste 
shipped internationally .
Identity , size, protected status, and biodiversity value of 
water bodies and related habitats significantly af fected by the 
reporting organization ’s discharges of water and runof f .An Overview of 
Environmental Impacts
No such cases
No such cases
No such cases
No such casesEN22
EN23
EN24
EN25- -
- -
- -35NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.
Total water discharge by quality and destination.We do not report on this issue 
(no intention of reporting
in the future), since the dis -
closure does not relate to our 
business because we are not a 
manufacture
We do not report on this issue 
(no intention of reporting
in the future), since the dis -
closure does not relate to our 
business because we are not a 
manufactureEN20
EN21- -
- -Emissions, 
Efﬂuents, And 
WasteTotal direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.
Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reduc -
tions achieved.
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.Greenhouse Gas Inventory 
and Electricity Management
Greenhouse Gas Inventory 
and Electricity Management
Greenhouse Gas Inventory 
and Electricity Management
We do not report on this issue 
(no intention of reporting
in the future), since the dis -
closure does not relate to our 
business because we are not a 
manufactureEN16
EN17
EN18
EN19 - -32
32
3277Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, 
including whether it is specified in collective agreements.
Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control 
programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, 
or community members regarding serious diseases.Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 
management–worker health and safety committees that 
help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety 
programs.
Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with 
trade unions.
Average hours of training per year per employee by employee 
category .
Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of em -
ployees per category according to gender , age group, minor -
ity group membership, and other indicators of diversity .Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 
support the continued employability of employees and assist 
them in managing career endings.
Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category .Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 
career development reviews.Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major 
operations.
Rates of injury , occupational diseases, lost days, and absen -
teeism, and number of work related fatalities by region.Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 
agreements.
H1N1 ResponseHarmony in Labor Relations
Harmony in Labor Relations
Recruitment and Training
Recruitment and Training
Recruitment and Training
Diversity
DiversityBalancing W ork and Lifestyle
OSH Management SystemHarmony in Labor Relations
Harmony in Labor Relations LA5
LA8LA6
LA9
LA10
LA13LA11
LA14LA12LA3
LA7LA4Employment
Investment And 
Procurement 
Practices
Non -
Discrimination
Child Labor
Forced And Com -
pulsory LaborFreedom Of
 Association 
And Collective
BargainingLabor/
Management 
Relations
Occupational 
Health And 
Safety
Training 
And Education
Diversity 
And Equal 
Opportunity
39
39
43
- -
- -
- -
- -
- -43
46
4343
44
4244
424445
4643
Disclosure on Management ApproachHuman Rights and 
Labor RelationsHuman Rights 43
Percentage and total number of significant investment 
agreements that include human rights clauses or that have 
undergone human rights screening.
Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken.
Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of 
child labor , and measures taken to contribute to the elimina -
tion of child labor .
Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 
of forced or compulsory labor , and measures to contribute to 
the elimination of forced or compulsory labor .Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom 
of association and collective bargaining may be at significant 
risk, and actions taken to support these rights.Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have 
undergone screening on human rights and actions taken.
Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 
concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to op -
erations, including the percentage of employees trained.
Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization ’s 
policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights 
that are relevant to operations.Ethical Supply Chain Man -
agement in the Telecommu -
nications Industry
No such cases
No such cases
No such casesNo such casesEthical Supply Chain Man -
agement in the Telecommuni -
cations Industry
Human Rights and 
Labor Relations
No such casesHR1
HR4
HR6
HR7HR5HR2
HR3
HR8Security 
Practices78Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and volun -
tary codes related to marketing communications, including 
advertising,promotion, and sponsorship.
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations 
and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, 
including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of 
outcomes.Business Principles
Business PrinciplesPR6
PR717
17Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of 
products and services are assessed for improvement, and 
percentage of significant products and services categories 
subject to such procedures.
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations 
and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts 
of products and services during their life cycle, by type of 
outcomes.Healthy User Environment
Healthy User EnvironmentPR1
PR2Customer 
Health And 
SafetyDisclosure on Management Approach Product Responsibility 
55
5549~51Product Promotion, 
Customer Service, Feedback
Type of product and service information required by proce -
dures, and percentage of significant products and services 
subject to such information requirements.
Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations 
and voluntary codes concerning product and service informa -
tion and labeling, by type of outcomes.
Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of 
surveys measuring customer satisfaction.No such cases
No such cases
Customer Service, FeedbackPR3
PR4
PR5
Marketing 
CommunicationsProduct 
And Service 
Labeling- -
- -
50, 51Corruption
Public Policy
Anti-
Competitive 
Behavior
Compliance- -
- -60, 28Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of 
indigenous people and actions taken.No such cases HR9 Indigenous Rights
Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for 
risks related to corruption.
Public policy positions and participation in public policy devel -
opment and lobbying.Percentage of employees trained in organization ’s anti-cor -
ruption policies and procedures.
Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political 
parties, politicians, and related institutions by country .Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.
Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior , 
anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.
Monetary value of significant fines and total number of 
non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and 
regulations.Nature, scope, and ef fectiveness of any programs and prac -
tices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on 
communities, including entering, operating, and exiting.
Code of Conduct, Human 
Rights Protection and Fight -
ing Corruption
Code of Conduct, Human 
Rights Protection and Fight -
ing Corruption
Code of Conduct, Human 
Rights Protection and Fight -
ing Corruption
Supervising Institutions
No political contribution
Industrial Environment of 
Fair Competition
Business PrinciplesManagement of social 
contribution
SO2
SO5SO3
SO6SO4
SO7
SO8SO1 CommunityDisclosure on Management Approach Society 
17, 43
20
20
1717, 43
17, 4365Chunghwa Telecom Foundation, 
ADOC 2.0 Project79Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches 
of customer privacy and losses of customer data.
Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws 
and regulations concerning the provision and use of products 
and services.
Capital investment in telecommunication network infrastruc -
ture broken down by country/region.
Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption 
Rate (SAR) of handsets.Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel 
involved in the installation, operation and maintenance of 
masts, base stations, laying cables and other outside plant. 
Related health and safety issues include working at heights, 
electric shock, exposure to EMF and radio frequency fields, 
and exposure to hazardous chemicals.Net costs for service providers under the Universal Service 
Obligation when extending service to geographic locations 
and low-income groups, which are not profitable.
Compliance with ICNIRP  (International Commission on 
Non-Ionising Radiation Protection) standards on exposure to 
radiofrequency (RF) emissions from handsets.
Compliance with ICNIRP  (International Commission on 
Non-Ionising Radiation Protection) guidelines on exposure to 
radiofrequency (RF) emissions from base stations.Privacy Protection and 
Combating Telephone Fraud
Business Principles
Universal Telecom Services
Universal Telecom Services
OSH Management System
Electromagnetic Radiation 
Decision-Making Mechanism 
and Education
Electromagnetic Radiation 
Decision-Making Mechanism 
and Education
Electromagnetic Radiation 
Decision-Making Mechanism 
and EducationPR8
PR9
IO1
IO6IO3IO2
IO4
IO5Compliance
Telecommunication Sector Specific Indicators
Investment
Health and 
SafetyInternal Operations54
17
62
5662
46
56
56Customer 
Privacy
Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites, 
and sites on existing structures.Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission 
sites including stakeholder consultation, site sharing, and initia -
tives to reduce visual impacts.
Polices and practices to enable the deployment of telecom -
munications infrastructure and access to telecommunications 
products and services in remote and low population density 
areas.
Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of
telecommunications products and services and quantify , 
where possible, for specified time periods and locations of 
down time.Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and 
use of telecommunication products and services.
Quantify the level of availability of telecommunications prod -
ucts and services in areas where the organisation operates.
Number and types of telecommunication products and ser -
vices provided to and used by low and no income sectors of 
the population.Electromagnetic Radiation 
Decision-Making Mecha -
nism and Education
Universal Telecom Services
Responsible 
CommunicationsDigital Good Neighbor , 
Digital CharacterElectromagnetic Radiation 
Decision-Making Mechanism 
and Education
Taiwan Telecom 
Penetration Rate
Special telecom of fers for 
low-income households and 
disadvantaged groupsIO8
PA1
PA3PA2IO7
PA4
PA5Infrastructure
5656
62
61, 63
52
62
68Access to Tele-
communication 
Products and 
ServicesProviding Access80Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites, 
and sites on existing structures.Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission 
sites including stakeholder consultation, site sharing, and initia -
tives to reduce visual impacts.
Polices and practices to manage human rights issues relat -
ing to access and use of telecommunications products and 
services.Polices and practices to enable the deployment of telecom -
munications infrastructure and access to telecommunications 
products and services in remote and low population density 
areas.
Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication 
products and services in emergency situations and for disas -
ter relief.
Policies and practices to publicly communicate on EMF 
related issues.Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of
telecommunications products and services and quantify , 
where possible, for specified time periods and locations of 
down time.Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and 
use of telecommunication products and services.
Quantify the level of availability of telecommunications prod -
ucts and services in areas where the organisation operates.
Number and types of telecommunication products and ser -
vices provided to and used by low and no income sectors of 
the population.Electromagnetic Radiation 
Decision-Making Mecha -
nism and Education
Healthy User EnvironmentUniversal Telecom Services
Charitable Telecom Services
Electromagnetic Radiation 
Decision-Making Mechanism 
and EducationResponsible 
CommunicationsDigital Good Neighbor , 
Digital CharacterElectromagnetic Radiation 
Decision-Making Mechanism 
and Education
Taiwan Telecom 
Penetration Rate
Special telecom of fers for 
low-income households and 
disadvantaged groupsIO8
PA7PA1
PA6
PA8PA3PA2IO7
PA4
PA5
Access to Content
Customer 
RelationsInfrastructure
5656
55
5662
6861, 63
52
62
Provide examples of telecommunication products, services 
and applications that have the potential to replace physical 
objects.
Disclose any measures of transport and/or resource changes 
of customer use of the telecommunication products and 
services listed above.
Disclose any estimates of the rebound ef fect (indirect conse -
quences) of customer use of the products and services listed 
above, and lessons learned for future development.
Description of practices relating to intellectual property rights 
and open source technologies.Total amount invested in programmes and activities in elec -
tromagnetic field research.
Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tarif fs.
Initiatives to inform customers about product features and 
applications that will promote responsible, efficient, cost ef -
fective, and environmentally preferable use.
eICT  Innovation
eICT  Innovation
eICT  Innovation
Extension of Innovation 
EngagementElectromagnetic Radiation 
Decision-Making Mechanism 
and Education
Customer Service, Feedback
Customer Service, FeedbackPA9
TA2PA10
TA3PA11
TA4
TA5Customer 
Relations
26, 27
26, 27
26, 27
2556
50
5068Access to Tele-
communication 
Products and 
ServicesProviding Access
Provide examples of the resource efficiency of telecommuni -
cation products and services delivered.eICT  InnovationTA1
Resource 
EfficiencyTechnology Applications
26, 2781
$
.
:
$.
.:
$:
$.:
,ʕശཥߵࠦ܆ڦ˖وQEGɨʹ