2017  
Sustainability Report2 
A MESSAGE FROM  MA TT F ARRELL  
We began our Company in 1846 with a baking soda business. Today, we are a top-tier 
Consumer Products Company with a large portfolio of brands that consumers love, 
especially ARM & HAMMER™ baking soda. 
Our Company has a rich heritage of commitment to people and the planet. Over 100 
years ago, we began using recycled materials in our cartons. We were the first US 
manufacturer to remove phosphates from laundry detergent. We were the first and only 
corporate sponsor of the first Earth Day in 1970. Today, the equivalent of 100% of our 
global electricity needs come from renewable sources. 
We take great pride in fostering an enduring culture of doing well by doing good. By 
focusing on making meaningful contributions to society, in addition to generating 
shareholder value, we create a stronger, more resilient company while contributing to a 
better world.
Our sustainability efforts are incorporated into our new product innovation. Our consumer 
insights have helped shape our product innovation goals to provide safer, more 
sustainable and higher performing offerings to the benefit of our consumers and the 
environment.
Our thinking on sustainability extends to the well-being of our employees and the 
communities in which we operate. We want to connect our brands with consumers 
to positively impact peoples’ lives. An example is the VITAFUSIONTM brand’s Fruit Tree 
Project, which we launched in 2017. We’ve planted over 10,000 fruit trees in underserved communities around the world with a goal of planting over 200,000 fruit trees by 2020.
On a local level, our highly successful Employee Giving Fund (EGF) contributed about $1.2 
million and almost 1,000 hours of employee time to 179 charitable organizations in 2017. 
Since inception, the EGF has donated over $10 million through 1,700 grants, along with countless hours of volunteer time. The EGF is another example of how our employees 
engage in local causes in which they have a personal interest.
Church & Dwighters are goal-oriented people. To create a compass for our sustainability 
program, we have established aggressive goals for ourselves. Those goals are included 
in this report. Our top sustainability goal is to achieve carbon neutrality for our global 
operations by the end of 2025. We have a roadmap to get there together, and I’m pleased 
to report that we are well on our way.
There is overwhelming evidence that the planet needs to be protected. At Church & 
Dwight, we choose to be an active participant. Please read this report to see the progress 
we have made over the past year in our sustainability efforts.
Matthew T. Farrell 
President and Chief Executive Officer
LETTER FROM THE CEO3 
ABOUT CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC
SUST AINABILITY APPROACHOUR FOCUS: 6 CORE PILLARS OF SUST AINABILITYPILLAR #1: OUR BRANDSPILLAR #2: PRODUCTSPILLAR #3: P ACKAGINGPILLAR #4: EMPLO YEES & COMMUNITIESPILLAR #5: RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGPILLAR #6: ENVIRONMENTSUST AINABILITY PERFORMANCE DA T AABOUT THIS REPORTGRI INDEX4613142124263641555759
T ABLE OF CONTENTS4 
We are a $3.8 billion company that was founded in 
1846 and is headquartered in Ewing, New Jersey. 
Over the past decade, we delivered an annual Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) of approximately 16.3%, 
significantly outpacing the S&P 500 stock index  
TSR of 6.2%. As a testament to our growth, we were added to the S&P 500 in 2016. 
We develop, manufacture and market a broad range of consumer 
household, personal care and specialty products, and we operate our business in three segments:
 Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and 
Specialty Products (SPD). In 2017, the Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and 
SPD segments represented approximately 76%, 16% and 8%, respectively, of our 2017 consolidated net sales.
The marketing efforts for our consumer products are focused principally 
on our 11 “power brands.”  These well-recognized brand names include ARM & HAMMER, 
used in multiple product categories such as baking soda, cat litter, carpet deodorization and 
laundry detergent; TROJAN condoms, lubricants and vibrators; OXICLEAN stain removers, cleaning solutions, laundry detergents and bleach alternatives; SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes; FIRST RESPONSE home pregnancy and ovulation test kits; NAIR depilatories; ORAJEL oral analgesic; XTRA laundry detergent; the combination of the L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION brand names for the our gummy dietary supplements; BATISTE™ dry shampoo; and WATERPIK water flossers and showerheads. 
POWER BRANDS
ABOUT CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC.5 
Over the past 15 years, we have expanded from an almost 
exclusively U.S. business to a global company.  Our Consumer 
International business sells a variety of personal care, household and  
over-the-counter products in international markets.  Our expanding global 
presence includes operations in Canada, France, Australia, Germany, the United Kingdom, Mexico and Brazil, and we export our products to more than 100 other countries. We manage over 60 brands in international markets including global icons ARM & HAMMER, TROJAN and OXICLEAN, as well as newly acquired brands WATERPIK, ANUSOL, VIVISCAL and TOPPIK
Our Specialty Products segment is the largest U.S. producer of 
sodium bicarbonate. We sell sodium bicarbonate to businesses along with 
other specialty chemicals in three product areas: Animal Productivity, Specialty Chemicals and Specialty Cleaners. Since the ARM & HAMMER animal productivity business began in 1972, with its launch of ARM & HAMMER baking soda as a feed additive to help dairy cows produce more milk, we have built a leading portfolio of nutritional supplements designed to help improve the health and productivity of dairy cows. Over the last five years, we have been successful at expanding  
our product offerings to include unique prebiotics and probiotics that help ensure a well-functioning gastrointestinal tract in dairy cows, beef cattle, poultry and other livestock.
In May and July 2017, respectively, we acquired Agro 
Biosciences – an innovator and leader in developing custom 
probiotic products for poultry, cattle and swine – and WATERPIK water flosser and showerhead business.  
The data in 
this report reflects the partial year metrics associated with these acquisitions. 
In addition, we divested an operating facility in Brazil. There were no other acquisitions or divestitures in 2017 which would have had an impact on the  
data within this report. 
Business  
Segment:Consumer 
DomesticConsumer  
InternationalSpecialty Products
Description: Household and 
personal care productsPrimarily personal  care products for  
international markets Animal productivity products, bulk sodium bicarbonate and specialty cleaning products 
2017 Net Sales: $2,854.9M $621.1M $300.2M APPROXIMATELY  
4,700  
EmployeesHeadquartered in  
Ewing, NJ
2017 
Net Sales  
$3.78
BillionPublicly  
Traded on  
New York  
Stock 
Exchange  
(CHD)
2017 Total 
Shareholder Return 
 
15.3%ABOUT CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC.6 
We believe that 
sustainable operations 
are both financially and 
operationally beneficial to our business, and 
critical to the health 
of the communities in which we operate.
  
Accordingly, each year we publish a Sustainability Report that highlights our 
business and corporate responsibility commitments by detailing our financial, environmental, social and governance performance.
In 2017, we strengthened our commitments to transparency and sustainability 
to ensure meaningful progress into the future. The following are representative samples of our progress in 2017:
 We reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project our carbon dioxide emissions from 
global operations and the use of palm oil in derivatives. 
We continued our journey to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations, 
including our goal of achieving carbon neutral status for all global operations by end of 2025 through our commitment to green electricity and our partnership with 
the Arbor Day Foundation, which are further described in this Report. 
We increased the percentage of recycled materials in our packages and partnered 
with the Sustainable Packaging Coalition to include How2Recycle Labels on many 
of our packages.
We revised our Global Operations Guiding Principles – the cornerstone of our 
Responsible Sourcing Program – to reinforce our commitment to internationally recognized human rights and social standards in our supply chain, and launched a 
program to audit our higher risk suppliers for compliance with those principles.SUST AINABILITY APPROACHSUST AINABILITY APPROACH 7 
How do we govern our sustainability approach? 
In 2017, our Corporate Issues Council continued to guide integration of sustainability into  
all parts of our business, and to drive continuous improvement in our sustainability approach  
and performance.
The Council is comprised of senior executives and leaders representing all key functional areas 
across the company including Human Resources, Law, Global Operations, Research & Development, Marketing and Sales. The Council takes the lead in defining, evolving, and implementing our sustainability strategies across the six pillars of our global sustainability program, Our Brands, 
Products, Packaging, Employees & Communities, Responsible Sourcing and Environment. The Council’s duties include allocating resources to appropriately address sustainability issues; reporting on our progress to drive continuous improvement in our sustainability approach and performance; and monitoring, prioritizing and addressing evolving standards and stakeholder requirements.
As disclosed more fully in our Proxy Statement , our Board of Directors, acting principally through 
its Governance & Nominating Committee, oversees our sustainability program. Their focus is an 
oversight of management’s risk assessment and management processes, and our ethics and compliance program supported by our Internal Audit Department. This process is designed to identify and rank the most significant risks that affect our Company, including sustainability related concerns, by considering the risks associated with companies in the consumer products industry.
How do we assess material issues?
The Global Reporting Initiative defines material issues as those that “have a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental or social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large.” Defining our material issues is an ongoing process. The Corporate Issues Council established the six pillars of our sustainability program by collecting issues our stakeholders expressed as sustainability priorities. The Council ranks various risks and opportunities, informed by a survey to show relative impact and likelihood. The Council, evaluates and discusses the most significant sustainability issues, risks and opportunities we face and the functions within the company that should be accountable for them. Our most significant sustainability issues, risks and opportunities are reflected within each of the six pillars of our sustainability program as set forth in this Report. There are additional topics included in this Report that may not have reached the same level of materiality but are provided for informational purposes. Note that the concept of “material issues” under Global Reporting Initiatives guidelines used for purposes of this Report is not meant to correspond to the concept of materiality for purposes of securities laws and disclosures required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules.
SUST AINABILITY APPROACH 8 How do we engage stakeholders?
We regularly receive communications and inquiries from our stakeholders regarding 
our sustainability practices. In 2017 we received inquiries, recommendations and insights from customers, shareholders and investor groups, government agencies and trade associations. Stakeholder issues are included on the agenda for each Corporate Issues Council meeting and sustainability issues raised by investors and other stakeholders are reviewed with the Board’s Governance & Nominating Committee at each of its meetings.
In 2017, we improved our processes for efficiently and accurately responding 
to sustainability related inquiries from our stakeholders. For example, based 
on collaborative communications with a group of stakeholders and our review of 
various customers’ requirements, we took other measures described in this Report to strengthen our Responsible Sourcing Program. This collaboration led to revising our Global Operations Guiding Principles to reinforce our commitment to internationally recognized human rights and social standards in our supply chain and launched a program to audit our highest risk suppliers for compliance with these principles.
The various methods of engagement with stakeholders are described on the 
following page.
SUST AINABILITY APPROACH 9 Stakeholder Method of Engagement
Our employees• Employee engagement surveys 
• Corporate Town Hall meetings • Plant meetings • Postings on bulletin boards • Web postings on our Company intranet site • Newsletters – Brand Buzz• Corporate communications
Our consumers• Consumer inquiries • Consumer surveys • Social media postings• Postings on Company website
Our retail customers and partners• Trade partner supplier expectations• Commercial partner inquiries or surveys• Meetings, conferences, presentations• Industry associations/collaborations
Our peers and suppliers• Peer benchmarking• Supplier meetings • Assessments and disclosure requests•  Trade meetings, conferences or presentations
Shareholders and investor groups• Direct inquiries and feedback • Face-to-face meetings • Investor conferences•  Individual communications (written, telephone or web-based)
Government and regulatory bodies• Monitoring of regulatory activity • Face-to-face meetings• Inspections, surveys
Non-Governmental organizations• Direct inquiries and feedback • Face-to-face meetings • Participation in boards, advisory councils • Reporting and disclosure expectations
Industry trade associations•  Business association newsletters, updates,  
or mailings
• Working Groups
Local communities and community groups• Direct inquiries and feedback • Face-to-face meetings• Charitable work
Media• Direct inquiries and feedback•  Communications (written, telephone or  
web-based)Methods of engagement with stakeholdersSUST AINABILITY APPROACH 10 We connect with other stakeholders through industry groups, 
associations and coalitions including the following:
CDP® 
In 2017, we reported to CDP our carbon dioxide emissions from global 
operations and the use of palm oil derivatives within our supply chain. CDP is a not-for-profit organization that operates a global disclosure system to provide consistent reporting of key environmental impacts.
www.cdp.net/en
PRODUCT CARE® 
We are a member of Product Care®, the Household and Commercial 
Products Association (HCPA) product stewardship program. Through 
Product Care®, we participate in training sessions and mentor relationships 
with other member companies. Together with HCPA we are currently developing industry-wide management principles across seven product life cycle areas, ranging from product design to anticipated disposal needs.
www.thehcpa.org
Issues that we determined to be potentially material for the Company are reported in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K of our annual report and include environmental matters and reputational risk.  
While management has primary responsibility for stakeholder engagement, the Governance & 
Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors is regularly informed about these engagement efforts as part of its oversight role. Our Board is committed to enhancing shareholder value and considering requests and inquiries from our stakeholders, which includes shareholders. Our engagement practices and controls, which are designed to grow constructive communications between our shareholders and independent directors, include the ability to submit shareholder proposals and recommend candidates for election to our Board, as well as the ability to communicate directly with our Board of Directors.
Our Independent Lead Director acts as a contact person to facilitate communications between 
employees, shareholders and others with the independent directors. The Lead Director, who is also Chair of the Governance & Nominating Committee, is responsible for ensuring that shareholder requests, recommendations and proposals are evaluated by that Committee, the Compensation & Organization Committee or Audit Committee, as appropriate, and then by our Board of Directors based on the applicable Committee’s recommendation. 
We also work with our local communities to address concerns relating to our operations. We 
engage with them through multiple channels, including this Report, our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, our website, and one-on-one communications.SUST AINABILITY APPROACH 11 RESPONSIBLE CARE® 
Through our Specialty Products Division’s (SPD) Specialty Chemicals 
Group, we actively participate in Responsible Care®, the American 
Chemistry Council’s voluntary program to help companies reduce their environmental impacts, health and safety, and security performance beyond U.S. environmental and safety regulations and standards. SPD applies the Responsible Care Management System (RCMS), which is a structured approach to improving company performance in community awareness and emergency response; security; distribution; employee health and safety; pollution prevention; and process and product safety. In addition, for customer stakeholder engagement, a semi-annual customer satisfaction survey is distributed and results evaluated for opportunities to improve. Included are questions related to the elements of Responsible Care. We rely on a third-party auditing firm to confirm and re-certify our adherence with the RCMS technical standards. 
responsiblecare.americanchemistry.com
THE AMERICAN CLEANING INSTITUTE (ACI)  
The ACI is the home of the U.S. Cleaning Products Industry®, representing 
producers of household, industrial and institutional cleaning products, 
their ingredients and finished packaging, oleochemical producers, and chemical distributors to the cleaning product industry. The ACI was established in 1926, and its members have engaged in “social sustainability” efforts long before that terminology came into being. Member companies continue to be passionate about their work to create products that provide hygiene and cleanliness, in a manner that is environmentally sound, socially responsible and economically viable, without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. ACI and its member companies are committed to a mission that endeavors to drive sustainability improvements across our industry and throughout our supply chain.
www.cleaninginstitute.org/sustainability/
SUST AINABILITY APPROACH 12 COUNCIL FOR RESPONSIBLE NUTRITION (CRN)  
We hold a Board membership in CRN. CRN and its members share a 
commitment to improving public health through nutrition, including the appropriate use of dietary supplements and functional foods. In pursuit of this goal, CRN’s members pledge to observe and uphold the highest ethical principles in their dealings with their customers, suppliers, competitors, regulators and consumers. As a Board member, we are deeply committed to ensuring the highest standards of product quality, safety and environmental responsibility. 
www.crnusa.org
PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS COUNCIL (PCPC)  
The Personal Care Products Council and its member companies – which 
represent the global cosmetic and personal care products industries – are committed to doing their part to make the world better. Whether it is conducting business to reflect environmental responsibility, supporting numerous charitable causes, or demonstrating the importance of giving back to our communities by providing jobs and professional development, our industry’s impact on the world is significant. Starting in 2010, the PCPC’s board of Directors approved three Sustainability Principles. These principles demonstrate the industry’s commitment to sustainability, including the environment, society, and economy. As a member company, we are fully committed to actively work with PCPC to further the industry sustainability goals.
www.personalcarecouncil.org
THE SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING COALITION  
The Sustainable Packaging Coalition is a membership-based 
collaborative that believes in the power of industry to make packaging more sustainable.  They are the leading voice on sustainable packaging and are passionate about creating packaging that is good for people and the environment.
sustainablepackaging.org
13 
Our global sustainability platform as defined by our six pillars means 
conducting our business so that we preserve the environment for future generations, provide a safe and healthy working environment for our employees, and respect the communities where we work and live while promoting the continued success of our company. 
Our global sustainability platform is derived from our heritage and  
organizational values, and it is a core component of our leadership vision.We place a high priority on operating in 
a responsible and respectful manner. 
Delight consumers with our brands and contribute 
to a more sustainable world.
Provide safe and effective products for consumers and 
the environment.
Utilize consumer friendly and environmentally 
responsible packaging.
Embrace the principles of good corporate citizenship and 
social responsibility within the communities we can impact.
Take responsibilities for our supplier’s environmental, 
social and ethical practices.
Minimize environmental impact of our 
global operations.OUR BRANDS
PRODUCTS
PACKAGING
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING
ENVIRONMENTThe following six pillars are the core focus of our  
sustainability efforts:
Our goals related to each of our sustainability pillars  
are included with the discussion of each pillar on the  
following pages. 
OUR  PILLARS OF  SUST AINABILITY
ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE
SOURCINGPRODUCTS PACKAGING EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIESOUR BRANDS
OUR FOCUS14 
1)
2)Integrate sustainability into our Brands and marketing efforts.
Utilize our Brands to drive awareness and engagement around sustainability. Delight Consumers with Our Brands and Contribute To a More 
Sustainable World
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIESPACKAGING PRODUCTS
Our goal is to delight our customers and consumers 
with high-quality, affordable products that are safe 
and effective for people and the environment. 
We endeavor to do this by continually challenging ourselves to identify and develop  
products with new and distinctive features that meet ever-changing consumer needs and 
preferences. From the earliest design stages to the end of consumer use, we explore ways to reduce the environmental impacts of our product formulation and packaging. We have established sustainability goals related to our ingredients and packaging, and will continue to provide updates on our progress in future reports.
Meeting our goals requires:  
Removing, reducing and restricting the use of materials that 
may present human health or environmental toxicity risks.
Optimizing product and package design to reduce materials.
Maximizing the use of sustainably sourced materials.Supporting recycling by designing with recyclable material s 
and communicating recyclability.OUR BRANDS
OUR BRANDSOUR BRANDS
15 
“Making a healthy,  
happy world” 
With our commitment to supporting healthy  
lifestyles in sustainable and nutritious ways,  
America’s #1 gummy vitamin brand, VITAFUSION, 
began a new mission partnership with the Fruit Tree Planting Foundation in 2017. Together, we are dedicated to planting fruit trees in underserved communities to provide access to nutrient-rich  
fruit while improving our surrounding air, soil  
and water. In 2017, we planted 10,600 fruit trees for communities in need across the U.S. and  
internationally for a positive impact today, and  
for generations to come. Brand Support in the Communities 
We give back through donations, volunteering and a universal drive 
to improve the communities where we work and live. Each brand 
has its own unique way of giving back. This year, VITAFUSION,  
WATERPIK, FIRST RESPONSE, and TROJAN had notable, positive effects on the communities they can impact the most.
The sustainable footprint from these  
green-scapes includes:
Providing 1.5 million pieces of fresh fruit  
for underserved communities
Removing 2.2 million pounds of carbon  
dioxide from the atmosphere Generating 1.8 million pounds of oxygen Filtering 67 thousand pounds of air  
pollutants
OUR BRANDS
16 
In 2017, edible forests 
of peach, apple, pear, 
cherry and plum trees 
were created in city parks, community 
centers and schools 
in the following communities: 
Bronx , new YorkMinneapolis , M innesota
seattle , washington trenton , new Jerse Y
el salvadorBentonville , arkansas
Uganda
We are just getting started. Our goal 
is to expand our fruitful impact from 
10,600 fruit trees in 2017 to planting 
200,000 fruit trees by 2020.
OUR BRANDS
17 With the acquisition of the WATERPIK brand in 2017, there was 
an opportunity to give back and improve the local community  
of Fort Collins, Colorado through the following donation:
Waterpik Donates $200,000 to Boys & Girls Clubs of 
Larimer County
FORT COLLINS, Colo. (December 26, 2017) WaterPik, a Church & Dwight  
company, donates $200,000 to Boys & Girls Clubs of Larimer County before  
the new year! Church & Dwight purchased Fort Collins-based Waterpik in  
August 2017, which makes water flossers, professional oral care products,  
and replaceable shower heads. 
Waterpik has been a staple in Fort Collins, CO since 1962. The company  
understands the importance of giving back to its community. Because Boys & 
Girls Clubs of Larimer County serves thousands of youth, Church & Dwight/  
Waterpik determined Boys & Girls Clubs of Larimer County is a wonderful  
organization to partner with and give back to the community where its  
employees live and work.
Todd Whitbeck, Chief Financial Officer of Waterpik said, “Our intention is to give 
back to our community where we plan to stay to provide the greatest impact. Boys & Girls Clubs of Larimer County provides services to kids who truly need it the most. Because they help thousands of kids each year in our backyard, this made the decision to give strategic and quite easy. We are pleased to partner with such a long standing and worthwhile organization.”
Boys & Girls Clubs of Larimer County’s mission is to enable all young people,  
especially those who need us most, to reach their full potential as productive,  
caring, responsible citizens. This is met by providing life-changing programs led  
by trained and caring staff. Boys & Girls Clubs of Larimer County provides an  
evidence-informed, comprehensive, out of school service for young people ages 
 6 to 18 years old. To help ensure that every child has an opportunity to attend, Boys & Girls Clubs of Larimer County provides low-cost membership at just $20 per child for an entire year.
Kaycee Headrick, Executive Director, Boys & Girls Clubs of Larimer County, said, 
“We are thrilled to partner with Church & Dwight/Waterpik
, their commitment 
will ensure youth in our community have a safe and positive place to go each day. This gift is one of the largest corporate donations our organization has ever received. We are unbelievably grateful.”
Source: Margaret Bachrach, Vice President of Development and Communications, Boys & Girls Clubs 
of Larimer CountyOUR BRANDS
18 FIRST RESPONSE PARTNERS WITH NATIONAL  
INFERTILITY ASSOCIATION
Since 2007, our FIRST RESPONSE brand team has partnered with RESOLVE, the National 
Infertility Association. RESOLVE provides compassionate support and community, advocacy for coverage, access to care, education, and awareness of all family building options. The FIRST RESPONSE brand team partners with RESOLVE in the following ways:
These efforts were recognized in 2017 when FIRST 
RESPONSE received the Barbara Eck Founders Award. This national award is presented annually to an individual or group who has demonstrated leadership in the field of infertility or infertility resolution.Raising awareness about the disease of infertility, and encouraging  
the public to understand their reproductive health as a part of National 
Infertility Awareness Week®.
Donating over 10,000 Pregnancy and Ovulation Tests to dozens of “Walks of Hope” across the US, in support of those with infertility.
Promoting RESOLVE on millions of Ovulation Test kit packaging for  
over a decade.
Pictured left to right: Dan Bracken (C&D, VP Consumer 
Engagement), Joey Cummings (The Joey Company, Founder/CEO), Julie Berman (RESOLVE Board Chair), Stephanie Berez (C&D, Director, Marketing), Christine Parker (C&D, Sr. Assoc. 
Brand Manager), Stephanie Schwendinger (C&D, Brand 
Manager), Barb Collura (RESOLVE, President/CEO).
OUR BRANDS
19 TROJAN SEXUAL HEALTH PROGRAM
As the manufacturer and distributor of TROJAN brand 
condoms, we are committed to increasing awareness among young adults in the U.S. about the risks of unprotected sex – notably unintended pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). In 2017, we worked toward this goal in several ways:
 
Partnering with Advocates for Youth to execute the third year of our 
“Consent. Ask for It.” Campaign. This program directly impacts 120 
colleges and university campuses across the U.S., with education and 
awareness activities to further the consent conversation.
Working with the Great American Condom Campaign – a youth-led 
grassroots movement to make the U.S. a sexually healthy nation – to 
donate more than one million condoms to college campuses.
Continuing to promote the “Condoms (STILL) Work!” Campaign, which 
is a 10-year effort and is referenced on our condom boxes.
Donating more than one million condoms to health departments 
across the U.S. annually. This is part of a partnership with the National 
Coalition of STD Directors (NCSD) to refocus attention, resources, and 
consumer education on condoms as a highly effective form of STD and unintended pregnancy prevention.
Driving sexual health education and action through Amazon Prime 
Day and Giving Tuesday campaigns. Based on the number of  
condoms purchased, TROJAN donated 65,000 condoms.
OUR BRANDS
20 
ARM & HAMMER SUPPORTS FARMS AND THEIR 
ANIMALS THROUGH OPTIMUM NUTRITION  
Within our Specialty Products Division, the Animal Productivity Group delivers 
high-quality microbial and nutritional solutions to livestock producers to enhance animal health and performance.
Our mission is to help farmers feed the world while  
taking the best care of their animals, their families, the  
environment and communities where they live, work  
and play. We are committed to continuously working to  
innovate and advance our portfolio of animal nutrition  
and food production offerings.  
To learn more about the Animal Productivity business, visit  
AHanimalnutrition.com
21 
1)   Remove 100% of Chemicals of Concern from formulated products by 
2020 and ensure timely elimination from acquired products.
2)   Fully disclose ingredients for all formulated products by 2020.Provide Safe and Effective Products for Consumers  
and the EnvironmentPRODUCTS
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCINGENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIESPACKAGING
OUR BRANDS
PRODUCT SAFETY 
Many of our products are subject to regulation by one  
or more U.S. agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug  
Administration (FDA), the Environmental Protection  
Agency (EPA), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and  
the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), as well 
as, foreign agencies. We are regulated by various agencies  
of the countries, states, provinces and other localities in 
which we sell our products.
FDA regulations govern a variety of matters relating to the products, such as product 
development, manufacturing, premarket clearance or approval, advertising and  
distribution. The regulations and standards imposed by the FDA and similar foreign agencies evolve over time and can require us to make changes in our manufacturing processes and quality systems to remain in compliance. These agencies periodically  
inspect our manufacturing facilities and other operations. If we fail to comply with  
applicable regulations and standards, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines and penalties, the recall of products and cessation of manufacturing and/or distribution.PRODUCTSPRODUCTS22 In addition, we sell products that are subject to regulation 
under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, both of which are administered by the EPA. We are subject to regulation by the FTC with respect to the content of our labeling,  
advertising, promotion, trade practices and other matters.
The CPSC administers the Poison Prevention Packaging Act, 
and has issued regulations requiring special child resistant packaging for certain products, including pharmaceuticals, dietary supplements, and dietary substances containing certain ingredients (e.g., iron).
We have strict policies and procedures in place to ensure compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations, and that our products and packaging are safe for consumer use. With the guidance of toxicologists, trade associations and external scientific experts, we actively monitor the latest science on any emerging chemicals of risk. 
Beyond compliance, in 2017 we continued our product  
sustainability journey with an ongoing program to eliminate  
materials that do not meet our own formulation standards,  
including developing more than 35 improved product  
reformulations.  For example, we expanded our offerings of highly concentrated  
unit dose laundry detergent pods, which save water in the manufacturing process, reduce the amount of packaging used relative to traditional liquid laundry detergent products, and provide more efficient means of product transportation.
FOUR-STEP SAFETY ASSURANCE PROCESS
In order to provide safe and effective products, we have developed a 
four-step process that allows us to meet our consumers’ needs without 
risk to their health or environment. The following four steps are critical  
in moving towards removing Chemicals of Concern: 
1)  INGREDIENT SELECTION: evaluate the safety of each ingredient at its 
proposed concentration level, and comparing to our Chemicals of Concern 
database which is comprised of published regulatory lists, including U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency Safer Choice Ingredient list and chemicals of concern as noted by our stakeholders.
2)  INGREDIENT/ FINISHED PRODUCT EVALUATION: determine potential 
human exposure and evaluate the safety of proposed ingredients/product under normal use and reasonably foreseeable misuse conditions.
3)  PRE-MARKET SAFETY CLEARANCE: develop a pre-market safety dossier 
on the finished product to ensure that all safety criteria are met prior to 
manufacture and prior to shipment to customers.
4)  POST-MARKET EVALUATION: conduct post-market surveillance and gather 
customer and consumer feedback.PRODUCTS23 FRAGRANCE AND FLAVOR SAFETY
Fragrances and flavors are important to our consumers, and we take care to 
tailor our products to their preferences, while assuring that all ingredients used to create these attributes are safe. We design all fragrance mixtures to comply with the safety standards set by the International Fragrance Association, and all flavor mixtures to those of the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers Association and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. We also conduct comprehensive safety reviews on all fragrances used, based on expected patterns of consumer use. As existing fragrance and flavor ingredients come under regulatory review, we revise current products to comply with the new guidelines. Additionally, we specially manufacture mild and fragrance-free products for consumers with sensitive skin.   
PRODUCT DISCLOSURE
We devote significant attention and care to transparency  
by disclosing ingredient and safety information for our  
products.  Safety Data Sheets for our products are available on our website.  
We disclose ingredients in all our products in accordance with the relevant federal 
regulations, and continue to work towards full ingredient transparency by 2020.  
To that end, all formulated consumer products have online ingredient disclosures, and our full fragrance palette.
While all our brands work to meet consumer needs safely, VITAFUSION and  
L’IL CRITTERS are exemplary of the transparency and simple effectiveness we  
seek to achieve. 
VITAFUSION and L’IL  
CRITTERS give consumers what they need and nothing they don’t.
America’s #1 gummy vitamin brands,  
VITAFUSION and L’IL CRITTERS, work hard 
to offer products 100% free of artificial flavors, high fructose corn syrup, synthetic dyes, gluten and dairy. The ultra-healthy formulations combined with delicious  natural fruit flavors have helped consumers across the country fall in love! In fact,  
our portfolio of products shipped over  
35 million pounds of natural fruit flavor gummies and penetrated over 10 million U.S. households in 2017 alone.
24 
P ACKAGING
1)   Ensure greater than 95% of global product packaging is recyclable by 2025.
2)  Ensure all non-pharma product packaging is free from PVC, including timely 
elimination from newly acquired products.
3)  Source all paper and board packaging from recycled material and/or  
sustainably managed forests by end of 2020.Utilize Consumer Friendly and Environmentally  
Responsible Packaging
In 2017, we continued to increase the levels 
of post-consumer recycled plastics within our products. We joined the Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR) and have been working with them and leading industry partners to find new technologies to increase the recyclability of our product packaging.We continue to deliver  
consumer friendly and  
environmentally responsible 
packaging across all of  
our brands.  
PRODUCTS
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING 
ENVIRONMENT
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES
PACKAGING
OUR BRANDS
PACKAGING25 RENEWABLE ENERGY PURCHASES
During the past year, we worked to achieve independent certification of our renewable 
energy purchases for all U.S. operations through the Green-e program. A program of the nonprofit Center for Resource Solutions, Green-e is North America’s leading independent consumer protection program for the sale of renewable energy and greenhouse gas  
reductions in the retail market. Green-e offers certification and verification services through Green-e Energy: a program that certifies renewable energy that meets environmental and consumer protection standards developed in conjunction with leading environmental,  
energy and policy organizations.
Moving forward, we will begin to incorporate the program’s nationally recognized logo into 
our product labeling to further reinforce our commitment to stakeholders. www.green-e.orgRENEWABLE PACKAGING GUIDELINES
In addition to all the improvements in our manufactured product packaging, we made 
comprehensive changes to our Global Sustainable Packaging Guidelines. The new  
guidelines more effectively evaluate future innovation designs on the basis of improving Sustainable Sourcing, Optimizing Design and Increasing Recycling and Recyclability.
TERRACYCLE
TerraCycle, located near our Corporate Headquarters in Trenton, New Jersey, is an innovative recycling company that has become a global leader in hard-to-recycle packaging waste.  
In 2017, we established a partnership with TerraCycle to determine recycling opportunities for baking soda and unit dose laundry detergent pouches. With TerraCycle, we are taking  
ingredients that typically are not recyclable and making them a recyclable commodity.  
Baking soda and unit dose laundry detergent pouch packaging will include the Terracyle  
logo and be on store shelves in 2018.
RECYCLING EDUCATION
We partnered with the Sustainable Packaging Coalition to include How2Recycle labels on many of our packages. The How2Recycle Label is a voluntary, standardized labeling system that clearly communicates package recycling instructions to the public. The labels inform consumers how to recycle correctly and how to find recycling information specific to their municipality. Several of our North American products include this label information, and we continue to phase it in across all relevant products. More information on the How2Recycle can be found at www.How2Recycle.info .  
26 EMPLO YEES & COMMUNITIES
We drive Company performance  
by unleashing the power of people. 
We attract and hire best in class talent to drive our company to high levels of financial and sustainability performance. 
PRODUCTS
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING 
ENVIRONMENTEMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES
PACKAGING
OUR BRANDS
1)   Integrate sustainability into our corporate brand and employer  
value proposition, emphasizing our environmental heritage and  future commitments.
2)  Enhance our Corporate Social Responsibility program to include  
goals, programs and commitments around diversity & inclusion, gender equality, and health & well-being.
3)  Establish community enhancing, philanthropic programs and initiatives  
at our global operating sites.Embrace the Principles of Good Corporate Citizenship and  
Social Responsibility Within the Communities We Can ImpactEMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES27 We pride ourselves in fostering a culture that 
values and encourages collaboration, honesty, accountability, respect, continuous learning and our sustainability commitment through the  following model: 
Maintaining a small, flat organization to remain fast-paced and 
nimble. Employees are urged to take initiative and ownership  
and our structure gives them the opportunity to make an impact  
regardless of title. Our goal is for everyone, at every level, at every location, to be engaged in the business.
Fostering an entrepreneurial spirit where action is encouraged.  
We are extremely competitive externally, but not internally. Open 
and honest communication among departments, functions and 
employees builds a mutual respect that enables us to challenge 
each other, leading to more cohesive and proactive teams.
Creating an environment of honest, open failure. This encourages 
action and informed risk-taking while avoiding complacency.
Learning from both successes and failures to compete and win  
in the marketplace.
Maintaining mutual respect so that we can challenge each other  
to reach higher. This results in a strong, motivated group of  
employees that takes pride in our company and our brands.Dedicating ourselves to sustaining the top-tier performance that 
will take our company to increasingly higher levels.
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES28 
On December 31, 2017,  
we had approximately  
4,700 employees. We are  
party to a labor contract  
with the International Machinists Union at our Colonial 
Heights, Virginia plant. Internationally, we employ union  
employees in France, Mexico, Brazil and New Zealand. We believe our relations with both our union and non-union  
employees are satisfactory.
TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
We are committed to ensuring that all our employees have the opportunity, tools and resources to develop their careers. 
 
We recognize our employees’ contributions by giving increased responsibilities and 
opportunities for success. Employees can gain valuable experience by participating in cross-functional projects and assignments to help them broaden their skills and diversify their career experience. Additionally, an internal job posting system notifies employees of new career opportunities as they arise.
We provide a variety of offerings for employees’ continuous learning and development. 
Training opportunities include instructor led, on-line, and on-the-job settings. Based on a benchmarking study conducted in 2017, we provide approximately six h ours of 
compliance training per employee per year as opposed to three hours from the study’s peer companies. In 2017, we launched our first American Production and Inventory Control Society (APICS) certification course onsite for a selected group of Supply Chain employees. approx . 
4,700  
eMploYees
year end 
2017
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES29 
We launched a broad reaching leadership development  
program called LEAP (Leadership Empowerment  
Achievement Program) for our mid-level Managers.  
Managers get the most from their teams through:
The program encompassed several capability building courses with a focus in the 
areas of Situational Leadership, Building a Business Case, Conflict Management, Powerful Presentations, Digital Savvy and Workplace Civility & Ethics. We will be enhancing this program for 2018.Speed in decision-making.
Clarity of thought through simple, clear communications.
Empowering their people to make decisions and take  
appropriate risks.
Direct, timely feedback and encouragement to their teams.
In 2017, we piloted a Digital Mentorship program, called What the 
WiFi?!?, which paired cross-functional Senior Leaders with digitally-savvy Mentors. The pairs met weekly for eight weeks to cover a curriculum of apps, social media and business tools. 
The pilot led to an increase 
of digital usage and aptitude, and fostered interdepartmental 
communication between upper management and associate- 
level employees. We are extremely excited to roll this program out more broadly 
to the rest of our organization in 2018.
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES30 
We offer an international e-learning platform that offers 
more than 1,000 courses. These “learning breaks” give 
employees a toolbox to enhance their Microsoft platform 
skills, financial planning for retirement or work/life balance 
to name a few. 
Lastly, we offer a tuition reimbursement program  that  
encourages employee development on both a professional and personal level. 
Employees are encouraged to develop new skills and become qualified for new jobs, as they become available, by taking outside courses of study that will  
help advance their careers.more than  
1,000  
courses offerede-learning
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES31 WORKPLACE SAFETY 
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for 
all employees and visitors to our facilities.  This commitment is evident 
by active employee safety committees at each of our global operations. Within these 
committees, employee representatives of all levels can freely raise and discuss safety concerns for appropriate action. The most important measure we use to evaluate  our safety performance is the “DART” rate which is a term indicating the number of accidents resulting in an injury with Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred normalized to hours worked. A declining DART Rate is favorable and means less accidents per time on the job. The most common employee injuries recorded during 2017 include low severity incidents such as slips, falls from floor level, and muscle strains. Moreover, there have been no fatalities and zero contractor injuries. 
As noted in the chart below, the DART rate for our global operations continues a  
favorable downward trend and remains well below the relevant industry benchmark 
(BM Manufacturing).
1 Within the last six years, we have reduced the accident rate  
by half, during a time of significant growth for the Company. 
1. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics defines Benchmark Manufacturing as: food; beverage and tobacco product; 
textile mills; textile product mills; apparel; leather and applied product; wood product; paper; printing and related support activities; petroleum and coal products; chemical; plastics and rubber products; nonmetallic mineral product; primary metal; fabricated metal product; machinery; computer and electronic product; electrical equipment,  appliance, and component; transportation equipment; furniture and related product; miscellaneous. CHURCH & DWIGHT DART RATE
3.0
2.0
1.0
0.0
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
 Global DART Rate 1.7 1.6 1.2 1.3 1.1 0.8
  DART Rate USA 1.6 1.7 1.2 1.2 1.1 0.9
 BM Manufacturing 2.3 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.1EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES32 WORKPLACE SAFETY TRAINING
We provide a comprehensive education program for all employees, including 
training in safe work practices. We believe that training in all aspects of  
workplace safety is a priority and a key component of the company’s program  to prevent work related injuries and illness. Training includes chemical awareness, behavioral safety, personal protective equipment, safe machine operation  
and many other important topics.
WORKPLACE SAFETY AUDITS 
Through our corporate safety department, we implement a safety auditing  program for adherence to local, state and federal safety standards and  
regulations. These audits are conducted annually for global operations by third-party consultants enforcing a rigorous assessment of regulatory standards, internal procedures and program performance. The audits are scored, and are currently indicating high levels of compliance in our operations. The auditing  
program confirms the Company’s commitment to best management practices and principles. We continually increase the rigor and level of scrutiny of the  safety auditing process to drive continuous improvement in our operations.
SAFETY-RELATED REGULATORY ACTION 
Like all other companies, we are subject to regulatory inspections and review. In 2017, we received a total of 10 regulatory inquiries (letters, phone calls, planned and unplanned visits) to our global operations sites. From these 10 regulatory inquiries, 11 regulatory violations/findings were issued and only 1 resulted in a monetary penalty.
Inquiries / Inspections Citations Penalties
10 11 $3,200*
*Note: one citation has been contested and settlement anticipated in 2018.
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES33 
CELEBRATING EARTH DAY
Employee involvement is key to building a more 
sustainable mindset at all levels of the organi -
zation. In 2017, we held Earth Day celebrations at our Ewing Corporate office and Princeton Research & Development facility. Employees participated in several activities during the week leading up to Earth Day including a Farmer’s Market, an “e-waste” collection of 700 pounds of electronic waste for recycling, and a tree planting on campus.
We gave away 650 tree saplings for employees to plant at their 
homes. Local environmental organizations including Sustainable 
Princeton, Conserve Wildlife NJ and the Princeton Gardens  
Cooperative hosted booths at our Princeton facility and engaged with employees, building bat boxes and creating seed packets.
Earth Day also provided a great opportunity to kick off a recycling program  
for the single serve coffee packets used on the Princeton and Ewing campuses  
Through 2017, approximately 62,000 packets were recycled 
via TerraCycle®. When processed for recycling, the coffee grounds and tea 
leaves are separated from the plastic packaging and composted into fertilizer. 
The packaging is recycled into durable plastic goods, like park benches.
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES34 We feel strongly that, as a member of the communities 
where we operate, our success should be shared. To that end, in 2005, we established the Church & Dwight Employee Giving Fund, Inc. (EGF), a workplace  
giving program that primarily supports charitable organizations in the communities in New Jersey and Eastern Pennsylvania. In the years since its inception, the EGF has become a cherished part of our culture. Through 2017, the EGF has awarded about 1,700 
grants totaling almost $10 Million to charitable organizations throughout the areas where our employees live and work.
 
 
9th Annual EGF Backpack Drive! 
 
Help us give local Children in need a fighting chance th is fall by donating a filled backpack and/or supplies per the 
lists below. Items in most need are indicated*. 
Our goal is 5 00 Filled Backpacks 
 Backpacks will be donated to EGF Sponsored  
organizations Home Front and RISE.  
 
 
 
 
Drop-off through 8/15:  
 
Ewing: Behind Lobby, 1 North Guard station  
or Mike Vercelletto (3N) / Jen Parracho’s (3S) office. 
 
Princeton: Downstairs Elevator vestibule, Main Lobby,  
or Janet Gayden/Holly Bartido’s office.  
 
*Please contact  Holly x1821 or Mike x1478 with any questions or for other ways to donate.                                                                                      
If you don't have time to shop, monetary donations are accepted and the EGF team will shop for you.  
 
Benefitting	Mercer	Street	Friends	Pre -School
Winter	Coats:	Size	2T -5T
Youth	sized	gloves,	Hats	&	Scarves
New	Items	only	please
EGF	campaign	ends	Friday,	November	17th
There	will	be	boxes	in	both	Princeton	&	Ewing	Starting	Thursday,	October	26th.		
If	you	have	any	questions,	please	email	 egf@churchdwight.com
EMPLOYEE GIVING FUND
Each year, we invite our employees to dedicate a portion of their paychecks to the 
EGF. We encourage employee donations by offering employees additional time off depending on their level of giving, and matching all employee contributions dollar for dollar, with no cap.
Through our annual grant process in 2017 , the EGF  
awarded $1.2 million to 179 organizations in a variety of areas, including animal rescue, disadvantaged youth, domestic violence, education,  
health, homelessness, hunger relief, military services, preservation of the environment, services for the elderly, and the visual and performing arts. Employees are encouraged to sponsor applications for their favorite  
charities, and funding preference is given to those organizations with an employee sponsor. In addition, to our annual grant process, the EGF  
coordinates workplace collection drives and fundraisers year-round (including a backpack drive, Toys for Tots, and a cold weather clothing drive), supports individual employee fundraising activities (e.g. 5K charity races), and provides disaster relief support as needed. HomeFront NJ, a local nonprofit that provides services for homeless youth and families in Central New Jersey, is one of EGF’s signature partners. Each year the EGF supports HomeFront NJ’s work through both grants and volunteerism.  
In 2017, we continued two annual traditions as our employees served a holiday dinner to homeless families and volunteered at HomeFront’s Camp Mercer – a summer day camp for homeless youth.In 2017, about 60% of the Ewing and Princeton   
employees pledged their support to the EGF, with an  
average annual financial contribution per  
participating employee of over $1,300.
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES35 The EGF also coordinated our 5th Annual Week of Service,  
providing a variety of opportunities for our Ewing and Princeton 
employees to donate their time and give back directly to our surrounding communities. During one week in June, over 450 employees participated in 20 events, donating over 950 hours 
to our partner organizations. At the culmination of the week, we hosted our popular  
EGF Organization Showcase at our Ewing headquarters, during which EGF grantees  
were invited to share information on their organizations and educate employees on  
more ways to get involved. 
COMMUNITY SUPPORT BEYOND THE  
EMPLOYEE GIVING FUND
In addition to the work done through the EGF, we also support the local community in a variety of ways, including acting as a principle sponsor of the Princeton Half Marathon. This annual event benefits HiTops, a local organization that helps adolescents increase their access to life-changing health information and develop and improve decision-making skills at a time in their lives when they need it most.
We also routinely donate cat litter to the 
ASCPA as well as other animal shelters. In 2017, over $70,000 was donated from the EGF 
to assist with relief and recovery efforts following 
the devastating hurricanes, floods, and wildfires 
throughout the U.S. and Puerto Rico.over 
$70K  
donated
To particularly assist with the recovery and cleanup efforts in Puerto Rico, the 
Employee Giving Fund provided a disaster relief grant to the Hispanic Federation.  We were attracted to the Hispanic Federation as
 100 percent of our grant will 
directly help children, adults, and families 
recover from the devastation .
In response to the devastation caused by  
Hurricane Harvey across Texas and Louisiana,  
and Hurricane Irma across Florida and the  
Southeast, the EGF committee authorized a  
disaster relief grants for the American Red  
Cross, helping thousands.   
2017 Week of Service Schedule
Subject to Change
Friday	
June	9th
Special	
Olympics	NJ	
Summer	Games
Unified	Young	
Athlete	ProgramMonday	
June	12th	
PB&J	Lunches
(Princeton)
Mercer	Street	
Friends	Food	Bank
Food	Pantry
CCFA
Sorting	Inventory
TASK	
Dinner	ServiceTuesday	
June	13th
Operation	
Shoebox	(Ewing)	
Military	Care	
Packages
Isles	
Fruit	Tree	Planting
Daytop	Village	of	
NJ	
Painting
Dress	for	Success
Sort	ClothingWednesday	
June	14th
PB&J	Lunches
(Ewing)
Pet	Rescue	
(Princeton)
Making	Pet	Toys
Quilts	for	Kids
Making	Quilts
Jewish	Family	and	
Children’s	Services
Food	Pantry
Kidsbridge
Painting/Sewing
TASK	
Dinner	ServiceThursday	
June	15th
Pet	Rescue	
(Ewing)
Making	Pet	Toys
Organization	
Showcase	(Ewing)
Habitat	For	
Humanity
Building	Houses
Boys	&	Girls	Club	
Bike	Exchange
American	
Repertory	Ballet
PaintingFriday	
June	16th
Operation	
Shoebox	
(Princeton)	
Military	Care	
Packages
RISE
Clean/Organize	
Store
EASEL	Animal
Rescue
Dog	Walking
Onsite	Activity Offsite	Activity New	Activity
Operation	
Shoebox	
Sorting	Event
(Princeton)
The	Bag	Project
Emergency	Kits
36 
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING  
1)     Launch and execute global responsible sourcing program and achieve at 
least 75% at risk supplier participation by the end of 2018. 
2)    Source 100% of palm oil-based ingredients on a certified sustainable basis, 
primarily through Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) credits and 
partially through mass balance by the end of 2018.
3)     Achieve 100% traceability to the mill level for all of our palm oil-based  
ingredients by 2020.
4)   Source 100% of palm oil-based ingredients from certified sustainable  
physical sources through RSPO from mass balance, segregated or identify 
preserved supply chains by the end of 2025.SUPPLIERS  
Committed to Taking Responsibility For our Supplier’s  
Environmental, Social and Ethical Practices
We are committed to managing our operations in a 
responsible and sustainable manner. By upholding 
high ethical standards, continually evaluating our 
environmental impact, creating a safe workplace, and vigilantly maintaining our commitment to  
responsible sourcing, we have held our position as 
a trusted provider of household, personal care, and 
specialty products for over 170 years.
PRODUCTS
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING 
ENVIRONMENT
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES
PACKAGING
OUR BRANDS
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING37 
Our supply chain is a significant part of our business, and more than half of our 
employees support its day-to-day operations.  We directly source from numerous 
suppliers, the majority of which are located in North America. All of our employees and suppliers are expected to comply with our Global Operations Guiding Principles, which are based on internationally recognized human rights and labor standards, including the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the Labor Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 
These Principles are also substantially aligned with the Ethical Trading Initiative 
Base Code and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010, which requires manufacturers doing business in California to disclose their efforts to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their direct supply chains. These Principles are included or incorporated into our supplier agreements. They apply to our employees and suppliers and are available under the “Corporate Governance” heading on the Investors page of our website at www.churchdwight.com.
In 2017, we launched a Responsible Sourcing Program  
that reflects our commitment to internationally recognized 
industry standards, while remaining commercially reasonable in our approach as we gather and analyze data relating  
to our suppliers’ practices. 
We work with independent social audit firms 
to audit certain of our higher potential risk raw material and component suppliers, 
and contract manufacturers to ensure their compliance with our Principles. We also conduct risk-based supplier audits against ISO Quality Standards and Food Safety Standards. These audits are conducted by our Quality Department and supplemented, as needed, by independent third parties.
We have launched a training program for applicable employees and management 
re-enforcing the Guiding Principles. This new program supplements our Code of Conduct training that applies to all employees and directors, and that requires compliance with applicable laws, including those prohibiting slavery and human trafficking. Any violations of applicable laws, our Code of Conduct or the Guiding Principles by a Church & Dwight employee or supplier are subject to corrective  
actions, which may include disciplinary action, termination of employment or  business relationship.
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING38 
While Church & Dwight does not directly buy or use palm oil 
or palm kernel oil in our products, some of our products –  
including animal feed, liquid laundry detergents, gummy  
vitamins, oral care and feminine care products – include palm oil derivatives. We recognize the palm oil industry has a  
significant impact on biodiversity, climate change, people and 
communities. Accordingly, we strive to responsibly source 
palm oil derivatives in a manner which does not contribute to deforestation of high conservation value and high carbon 
stock forest and peatlands, or exploitation of people and 
local communities. 
Although our use of palm oil derivatives is relatively low, we are committed to  
responsibly sourcing palm oil ingredients. In 2017, we sourced virtually all of  
our approximately 55,000 tons of palm oil derivatives from one supplier, who is a 
member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). As of December 31, 2017, approximately 96% of our palm oil derivative volume received from that supplier was independently verified as traceable back to the mills according to our primary supplier’s supply chain mapping. That supplier has also represented to us that  
all such palm oil derivatives have been produced in conformance with its “No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation Policy.” Based on our primary supplier’s representations, we expect to trace all of that supplier’s palm oil derivative  
volume purchased by us to the mills by 2020.
Colonial Heights Plant
2
238,000 Square Feet on ~60 Acres
PALM OIL96%
VERIFIEDNo Deforestation, 
No Peat,  No ExploitationRESPONSIBLE
SOURCING39 In 2018, we plan to join the 
RSPO with a goal of sourcing  
100% certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO) for our palm  
oil-based ingredients, including fractions and derivatives,  
by year-end 2018 through the Mass Balance and RSPO Credit supply chains.
In addition, we have expanded our Palm Oil Sustainable Sourcing Commitment to 
more thoroughly address issues relating to deforestation, peatland protection and exploitation of workers in palm oil production. Our new and more comprehensive commitment expands the scope of our sourcing of palm oil derivatives commitment to address those areas. That commitment demonstrates our compliance with the 
following specific sourcing practices:
Not contributing to deforestation by conserving and 
protecting primary and secondary forests, High Carbon 
Stock1 and High Conservation Value2 forests across all  
supplier landholdings.
Committed to no new development on peatlands,  
regardless of depth.
Using best management practices3 for existing palm oil 
plantations on peat soils.
Prohibiting the use of fire for preparation or clearing of  
land areas.
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and 
existing operations.  
Complying with existing RSPO Principles and Criteria or 
other equivalent standards.
Ending any exploitation of the rights of indigenous peoples 
and local communities.
1. High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests as defined at http://highcarbonstock.org by the HCS Steering Group
2.  High Conservation Value (HCV) as defined by the HCV network: https://www.hcvnetwork.org/about-hcvf/the-sixhigh-conservation-values. 
3.  Best management practices covered by the “RSPO Manual on Best Management Practices (BMPs)  for existing oil palm cultivation  on peat.”
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING40 
To accomplish these goals, we require our primary supplier  
to meet or exceed the standards set forth in its No  
Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation Policy, provide  
quarterly reports regarding its supply chain mapping and 
progress reports against the commitments set forth in  
its policy, and meet or exceed RSPO standards for  
RSPO certification.  
From time to time, we may also further investigate various other approaches and tools 
that may be available to help us assess our supply chain. Due to the complexity of  
the palm oil derivative supply chain, the process of achieving traceability involves a number of companies at many tiers. 
Because our greatest opportunity to influence 
the supply chain is through our partnerships with our suppliers , our objective of 
achieving traceability to the mills by 2020 is subject to change based on the progress of our suppliers.  In addition to full traceability to mills, we support and encourage suppliers to achieve as much traceability to the plantations as possible and to comply with RSPO standards as they evolve.
CONFLICT MINERALS
We are committed to ensuring that our products 
do not contain conflict minerals that have funded 
armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo or an adjoining country. Any supplier  
found to be in violation of our policies is subject to corrective action which may include termination 
of business.
41 
ENVIRONMENT
1)   Achieve carbon neutral status for all global operations by end of 2025.
2)   Reduce global process water and/or wastewater by 25% by 2022 using 
2016 as baseline.
3)   Achieve global operations solid waste recycling rate of 75% by 2020.Minimize Environmental Impact of Our Global OperationsENVIRONMENT
In 2017, we established new environmental 
goals with respect to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water reductions and solid waste recycling. Our GHG goal is to be carbon neutral by the end of 2025 and achieved through: 
Reduce
 – our overall consumption of energy from  
our operations and transportation.
Recycle  – continue the successful recycling efforts at all operations.
Renew  – support the generation of clean green energy. 
Replenish  – Partner with organizations, such as the Arbor Day 
Foundation, to offset our GHG emissions.
PRODUCTS
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING 
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES
PACKAGING
OUR BRANDS
RENEWREPLENISHREDUCERECYCLEENVIRONMENT42 
MANAGING FOR  
ENVIRONMENTAL  SUSTAINABILITY  AND SAFETY
It is essential for us to make great products and to produce 
them in facilities with robust environmental, health and safety 
performance. We work toward this high-performance culture by adhering  
to well established principles defined in the company environmental and safety 
policies. These policies guide our environmental and safety practices and  
expectations, and they are implemented through the following approach:
Accountability  – Each of our facilities has a designated on-site environ -
mental and safety coordinator responsible for monitoring and managing  
environmental and safety issues affecting their facility. These coordinators are closely networked to enable peer mentorship and best practice sharing across facilities.
Audits and Inspections  – Each of our facilities undergoes a third-party 
conducted safety audit each year, and a third-party conducted environmental audit every other year. All facilities are subject to periodic, unannounced inspections by federal, state and local environmental agencies. 
Awareness  – We offer regular training for all our manufacturing  
employees to promote awareness of environmental and safety practices  
and procedures. This includes an annual Environmental and Safety  Conference for facility environmental and safety coordinators. 
Awards – In 2017, we recognized our Folkestone UK facility for its  
exemplary environmental performance and safety practices resulting in a continual reduction in a DART rate below benchmarks. In addition, projects were implemented to reduce the facility’s overall energy use, and increase preventative measures and employee engagement to achieve improvements in the overall safety and environmental performance. ENVIRONMENT43 
ENVIRONMENTAL  
PERFORMANCE
We have experienced a significant growth of our business through organic growth 
and acquisitions, and we anticipate growth to continue in the coming years. Our growing business provides the challenge of managing its environmental footprint and minimizing impacts of our expanding operations. To manage this, we rely upon our employees’ strong implementation of our sustainability initiatives. In addition, we regularly evaluate our primary impact metrics (regulatory compliance, energy use, water use and waste generation) and take necessary actions across the  
company to optimize our operations.
2017 CITATIONS & PENALTIES/SURCHARGES
All facilities undergo periodic, unannounced inspections by federal, state, and 
local environmental agencies. In 2017, there were 17 such inspections conducted at our operations, which resulted in eight minor citations. We also received three citations as a result of self-disclosed non-compliance issues. The citations were for a combination of administrative or record keeping issues, or wastewater  discharge permit excursions. Corrective actions were immediately implemented for all instances. No penalties were issued for any of the citations received.
Media Total PenaltiesCitations-
Inspections 
RelatedCitations-Self 
Reported
Wastewater $0 5 2
Air $0 2 1
Emergency Response $0 1 0
ENVIRONMENT44 SPILLS/RELEASES TO THE ENVIRONMENT
We monitor and report on spills and releases to the environment. This includes our  
Colonial Heights, VA plant, which, as a result, of the manufacturing process, releases  
ammonia to the atmosphere on a consistent basis each year and in compliance with  
air pollution control regulations.
We had four minor reportable accidental releases in 2017. Two involved internal plant 
spills that reached the local sanitary sewer. The local sewer operating authorities were notified and management practices revised to minimize the risk of re-occurrence. A third spill was the result of a failed sanitary sewer line causing a backup of sanitary waste water. The local sewer operating authority was notified and the state environmental agency was informed of the release. The spill was contained to local soil impact. Corrective actions included soil clean up and sewer line repair. The fourth release was the result of a puncture of a 250-gallon intermediate bulk container during unloading. The spill was contained in the parking lot and local response authorities were notified. These releases were promptly reported to the appropriate state or local environmental regulatory authority. Immediate response and clean up actions were taken and corrective measures were designed and put in place to prevent such releases in the future. None of these incidents caused ongoing adverse impacts to public health or the environment. Less than $10,000 total direct response and corrective action costs were incurred because of these releases.
REMEDIATION
In 2017, there was limited activity regarding environmental remediation Company wide, with the most significant activity occurring in connection with closure and remediation activity at the Company’s wholly owned Brazil subsidiary Química Geral do Nordeste Ltd. (QGN). The closure and remediation activities are summarized below.
REMEDIATION  
EFFORTS   
$782,000
TOTAL SPEND  
IN 2017
QGN, Itapura, Brazil 
The mining operations that supported the inorganic salt manufacturing operation for QGN is undergoing closure activity. The remediation efforts in 2017 are primarily the re-vegetation of the slopes of the surface mine. Total spend in 2017 was $131,900.QGN, Feira de Santana, Brazil 
There are ongoing remediation efforts at the closed facility of QGN in Brazil. The remediation efforts include the control and capture of contaminated groundwater through an  interceptor trench drainage system. Total spend in 2017 was $782,000.ENVIRONMENT45 
REDUCE
During 2017, we continued to assess our facilities 
for opportunities to reduce impacts to the environ -
ment through reductions in energy usage, water usage, and waste generation. As a growing  
company, our absolute values in terms of total  
energy, and water use, total waste generation  would be expected to continue to increase  
commensurate with our growth. Projects such as LED lighting conversions; installing “right sized”  
boilers or compressors with secondary high demand step up units; line efficiency assessments and  
modifications to increase yield and decrease waste; adding product recovery loops; changing waste  
handling and treatment procedures; conducting studies to identify and eliminate once through  
cooling water uses; and similar projects help us  
reduce our overall impacts and meet our stated goals.
RECYCLE
We have a very robust recycling program across our 
global operations. In 2017 we recycled 11,459 tons (22,900,000, lbs) of 
waste that would have been destined for disposal facilities, such as landfills. We 
recycle approximately 58% of the solid waste generated by our global operations, excluding chemical or hazardous wastes. In 2017, the annual environmental  
benefits from the paper/cardboard recycling efforts alone saved:
120,000 mature trees
50 Million gallons of water
21,000 cubic yards of landfill space
4.3 Million gallons of oil
RENEW
In 2016, we entered agreements to support and purchase electricity sourced  
from sustainable sources – primarily wind energy – for approximately 50% of  
our anticipated 2017 global electricity demand. Buying green energy reduces  
carbon dioxide emissions by generating electricity from renewable resources 
instead of conventional fuels. Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) for primarily wind energy are acquired directly from the energy companies servicing our locations, or from third party energy brokers. In 2017, we made a commitment to offset 100% of electricity for company operations sourced from sustainable sources. We will monitor our electricity use on an annual basis and secure forward looking REC’s to offset our anticipated tons of CO2e for the subsequent year.ENVIRONMENT46 These efforts and policies do not go unnoticed. We were  
recognized in 2017 for EPA green power leadership, and  we rank no. 53 on the EPA’s national top 100 list of green power users.
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)  
established the Green Power Partnership (GPP) in 
2001 to protect human health and the environment by increasing organizations’ voluntary green power use to advance the American market for green  
power and the development of those renewable 
electricity sources. The program provides a framework that includes credible  
usage benchmarks, market information, technical assistance, and public  
recognition to companies and other organizations that use green power.
REPLENISH
In 2016, we partnered with The Arbor Day Foundation to offset carbon dioxide emissions through the planting of trees and protecting existing forests. Our  
partnership offsets the carbon dioxide emissions generated from the use of fossil fuels (primarily natural gas) from our operations. In 2017, we increased our commitment to the Partnership for verifiable emissions reduction credits to offset approximately 25% of the total carbon dioxide emissions from the use of fossil  fuels at our operations.
SUNLIGHT
CO2(Carbon Dioxide)
O2(Oxygen)ENVIRONMENT47 As one of the world’s largest operating conservation foundations, the Arbor Day Foundation – 
through its members, partners, and programs – makes it possible for stakeholders and  communities to involve themselves in making our earth greener and healthier for this and future generations. 
In partnership with Church & Dwight, the Arbor Day Foundation is working with public and 
private partners in Arkansas, Mississippi, Louisiana, Kentucky, Illinois, Missouri and Tennessee. One of the most critical wetland resources in North America, the Mississippi River Valley, is  
a vital habitat for migratory birds and numerous plant and animal species. 40% of North  
America’s waterfowl and 60% of all bird species migrate along the Mississippi River, although their population has dwindled from habitat loss.
Originally the area was covered with 25 million acres of forestland, but currently less than  
5 million acres remain forested, which has dramatically affected the ecosystem. The loss of this 
precious resource has resulted in a decline of the wildlife as well as in the water quality that has since lead to an increasing dead zone in the Gulf of Mexico. This conversion of forestland 
has also resulted in the loss of its natural flood control buffer. The Arbor Day Foundation  
works with local farmers and landowners in this region to help improve water quality and wildlife habitat. Forests are created that landowners will permanently maintain due to financial incentives including carbon credit sales, sustainable wood products, and recreational services,  
as well as the ecological benefit of restoring critical wildlife habitat. 
For the second consecutive year, Church & Dwight has acquired forest carbon credits toward 
our carbon reduction goals. In total, over 60,000 tons of carbon has been sequestered through their support of forests. This is the estimated equivalency of taking over 13,000 cars off the road, offsetting the energy use of almost 6,700 homes per year, or over 150,000,000 miles  
driven by an average passenger vehicle – that’s like driving from Earth to Mars.
Improve  
air qualityEnsure  
water  
qualitySlow  
climate 
changeCombat 
deforestationFeed the 
human  
soulPrevent species  
lossEase  
poverty and 
hungerFounded in 1972, the Arbor Day Foundation has grown to become the largest nonprofit membership organization dedicated to planting trees, with more than one million members, supporters, and partners. During the last 46 years more than 300 million Arbor Day Foundation trees have been planted in neighborhoods, communities, cities, and forests throughout the world. With a mission of inspiring people to plant, nurture, and celebrate trees, the Foundation 
is a recognized leader in creating an understanding that trees are a solution to many of the 
global issues we face today. We plant trees and encourage others to plant trees to:
Matt Harris  
Chief ExecutiveDan Lambe 
PresidentENVIRONMENT48 
ENERGY USE 
Our net energy consumption  
associated with manufacturing  
(in gigajoules) was down  
approximately 1.3% in 2017  
compared to 2016 (down approximately 22,600 gigajoules) with 
growth increases largely offset by divestiture of one operating plant in Brazil.
 The single largest impact to the overall energy usage in 2017 was the  
reduction in total purchased steam energy (-19%). Corporate wide, combined with  
a reduction in propane use (-16%), this offset a 3% increase in natural gas use.  
Electricity use remained effectively neutral with less than 1% deviation from 2016  
levels. Implementation of several energy reduction projects has enabled us to  
minimize increases in our absolute natural gas and electricity use. Natural gas/  
propane and electricity usage, normalized to millions of pounds of product shipped, were both down by approximately 4% and 5% respectively compared to 2016.  
Normalized total energy (GJ/MM lb shipped) was also down, approximately 6%,  
reflecting the additional impact of reduced purchased steam volume.
For the 2017 energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) data, we contracted with an  
independent third party, ERM CVS, to evaluate that our energy data collection  
process and calculations are rigorous, inclusive and accurate. 
2015 2016 2017360
350
340
330320310
300343348
328NORMALIZED ENERGY USAGE
(GigaJoules Energy/MM lb shipped)ENVIRONMENT49 GREEN HOUSE GAS (GHG) 
GHG emissions are associated with all aspects of our supply chain and product 
use.  Raw material production, transportation to point of manufacture, product manufacture, product distribution and product use all have an impact. We define our GHG scope to GHG emissions over which we have a direct control. This includes Scope 1 direct emissions from our operated facilities, Scope 2 indirect emissions from our operated facilities (primarily electric and steam purchases), and Scope 3 emissions associated with transport of our finished products to our first point of customer contact (in US and Canada) and corporate business air travel. Other Scope 3 emissions related to supply chain, including product transport to customers outside the US or Canada, are not currently monitored or measured for this report due to the absence of reliable processes or reliable data for operations outside our direct control. We will continue to evaluate options to monitor and measure other Scope 3 aspects of our supply chain and consider how they might be included in the future.
Our absolute GHG emissions were reduced approximately 3.7% in 2017 over 2016. 
Global GHG emissions associated with shipping operations were reduced 6% and GHG emissions from manufacturing operations were down 1% in 2017 over 2016. This reduction was primarily a result of continued reduction in total miles driven  related to both higher average weight per load and shorter routes and an increase in the percentage of intermodal shipments for transportation and divestiture of one operating plant. The chart below provides the net and normalized GHG emissions. Total GHG emissions, normalized to million pounds shipped continued to decline  
in 2017 .
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG)*
* Note that the above GHG figures have been adjusted compared to previously reported figures to 
align with CDP GHG calculation factors and to address corrected errors in 2015 and 2016. The 2016 & 2017 GHG calculation reflect the use of the USEPA 2016 eGrid factors as well as revised calculation to reflect short-ton mile factors for Intermodal shipments.Media 2015 2016 2017
GHG Emissions-Manufacturing 
Operations (tons CO2e)207,741 192,318 189,973
GHG Emissions-Transportation Operations (tons CO
2e)233,304 206,600 194,377
GHG Emissions - Combined 
Operations  (tons of CO2e)441,045 398,918 384,350
GHG Intensity  (tons of CO2e /MM 
pounds of product shipped)88.83 78.11 71.93ENVIRONMENT50 In addition to GHG emissions, some of our facilities report on specific 
air emissions as required by a facility air permit. The chart below  
represents the breakdown of Criteria Air Pollutant emissions as  
defined by the USEPA for those facilities that are required to report  
air emissions. In 2017, the air emissions of criteria pollutants were  
less than 500 tons with the majority being particulates.
THE ROLE OF PRODUCT FORMULATION IN  
TRANSPORTATION EMISSIONS
One of the biggest contributors to our GHG carbon footprint is shipping. The energy 
requirements to ship some of our heavier products – such as cat litter– can be  
particularly intensive. By considering product weight at the design stage, we have an opportunity to reduce GHG emissions in shipping. For instance our light weight cat litter reduces the product’s weight by 50%, resulting in less energy intensive shipping. In 2017, we increased the use of intermodal shipping (rail/truck combined) by 12% as well as optimized shipping loads to maximize amount of product per load and reduce total truck miles shipped. Between intermodal shipping and load optimization we shipped 8% more product by weight, but decreased the number of miles driven by 4%. This resulted in a reduction of 11,500 tons CO
2e for product transportation in 2017 
compared to 2016.Carbon Monoxide
NOx
SOx
Particulate (PM-10)
Ozone (VOC)
HAP2017 CRITERIA AIR POLLUTANT EMISSSIONS
(by percent)
13.81%2.33%6.08%
6.74%
0.15%
70.89%ENVIRONMENT51 WATER
Water conservation and management is a particularly high priority for us because water is  
a main ingredient in several of our products. The majority of our water use is as a product  
ingredient. A portion of our water is also used for cooling, cleaning, or other process operations 
and then returned to the environment. A small percentage of the water is attributed to personal consumption and sanitary use. During 2017, our operations required nearly 521 million gallons of water intake. Approximately 82% of water intake is from public water supply systems. The remaining 18% is from groundwater wells on our facilities. Total water intake was up approxi -
mately 3.7% in 2017, while net consumption increased only 1%. Most of our operating facilities showed an increase in net water consumption for 2017, often directly correlated to increased production or process changes. As we continue to increase production, we are actively  
exploring ways to avoid corresponding increases in water consumption. We define net water consumption as:
TOTAL WATER
(gallons)
2015 2016 2017550,000,000
500,000,000450,000,000400,000,000350,000,000300,000,000
250,000,000
200,000,000150,000,000100,000,000489,453,757
279,224,447
210,229,280499,140,928
282,443,265
216,697,663520,887,758
288,415,572
232,472,186
Total Discharge (gal) Net Consumption (gal)
 Total Water Intake
We are committed to reducing wastewater discharges by 25% by 2022 compared to our  
2016 baseline. In 2017, we discharged 232.5 million gallons of wastewater, up approximately 
7% over 2016. Despite implementing several water optimization projects, the net volume of  
wastewater increased during the year. We continue efforts to identify and implement specific projects related to optimizing water recycling systems, minimizing evaporative losses and improving efficiency in our water handling and treatment equipment, especially at our most water intensive plants to achieve our stated goal.
None of our facilities are in extremely high water-stressed areas as identified by the World  
Resources Institute. The water risk evaluation identifies areas with higher exposure to water 
related risks, and is an aggregated measure of all selected indicators from the physical quantity, quality and regulatory & reputational risk categories. The chart below provides the normalized water and net water intake and water consumption for the last three years. Water use, both total intake and net consumption continues to decline when normalized to millions of pounds of product shipped.Net Consumption(gal) =  
Total water intake(gal) – Total Water discharges/disposals (gal)ENVIRONMENT52 Approximately 90% of our wastewater is discharged to local municipal 
wastewater treatment plants, hauled off site for appropriate disposal, or treated onsite prior to discharge. The remaining 10% is direct discharge of non-contact cooling water or clean fire system water. Our discharges do not significantly impact water quality in any water bodies.
WASTE
In 2017, our total waste generation was essentially flat compared to 2016. Reductions in 
non-hazardous process wastes and total recycle volume were offset by increases in hazard -
ous waste, general trash, and hauled wastewater for a net increase of <1%. Wastewater transported offsite, which cannot be sent to a public sewer at the manufacturing location for a variety of reasons, represents the largest percentage of our waste by weight, at 44%.
Our Company hazardous waste generation increased in 2017 by 11%, but this represents 
less than 1.5% of all waste generated. Most of our facilities are considered small quantity  
generators of hazardous waste. No hazardous wastes are treated onsite, or are exported. All hazardous wastes are transported off site by properly licensed vendors to appropriate treatment storage or disposal sites. All solid waste is transported offsite and properly  
disposed at licensed facilities except for our facility in Wyoming, which maintains an  
onsite non-hazardous waste landfill. We have no international shipments of hazardous  or nonhazardous wastes.Sewer (POTW)
Direct Surface w/o Treatment
Direct Ground w/o Treatment
Direct Surface w/ Treatment
Direct Ground w/ Treatment
Other48.51%
16.55%7.76%1.65%2.20%23.33%WASTEWATER DISPOSITION2015 2016 2017200
100
05598
5699
5497NORMALIZED WATER USE
(Thousand gallon /MM lb shipped)
Intake/MM lb shipped Consumed/MM lb shipped
ENVIRONMENT53 The following charts provide a comparison of the offsite waste  
disposal methods utilized in 2017 and net and normalized waste  
generation quantities for the last three years.
2015 2016 201714
1210
8
6420NORMALIZED WASTE GENERATION
(Tons/MM lb shipped)
Total Waste      Non-hazardous Solid Waste      WW Hauled Office      Recycle      Hazardous Waste2017 WASTE DISPOSAL METHODS
Compost
Incineration
Landfill
WW Treatment
Recycle/Reuse5%1%1%1%
19%
44%29%
Absolute waste generation totals by weight have remained flat for the past three years.  
However, the normalized waste per million pounds shipped have continued to decline each year for each waste category, except for wastewater hauled off site. Water reduction efforts at locations where wastewater is transported offsite continues to be an emphasis of our waste minimization efforts.ENVIRONMENT54 
All of our operating plants were challenged in 2017 to develop a specific, targeted 
waste minimization effort, and results were reported into company management. While these efforts were not always successful, the net results are reflected in the reduced non-hazardous process waste observed in 2017. Some examples of waste minimization projects implemented at our plants in 2017 include:
We will continue to look for opportunities to apply these and 
other promising programs across the company. Developing a simple, physical treatment process for select 
plant wastewater that enabled the resulting effluent to be 
discharged to sewer and eliminated 1.9MM pounds normally 
transported for offsite disposal.
Installing a product recovery loop that increased plant yield 
and decreased process waste generation by 16%.
Implementing an employee give away and donation program 
for suitable products, instead of disposal. This has assisted in 
reductions in disposals from our distribution centers as well as Research & Development.
Eliminating transfer totes with single use plastic liners at a 
plant. This resulted in the removal of more than 6 tons of  
disposable liner waste, as well as improved production rates 
and efficiency, including improved product loss ratio and 
wash water demands. As with energy  
and water, we are  continuously exploring ways to reduce waste as we increase  
production. 55 ENVIRONMENTAL Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015
Total Energy Use Thousand GJ 1,754 1,777 1,702
Gas (Natural Gas + Propane) Thousand Cubic Feet 830,335 806,090 811,729
Electricity Thousand kWh 162,683 164,047 163,639
Fuel Oil/Gasoline Gallons 91,191 83,195 93,328
Purchased Steam Tons 90,462 112,250 80,457
Normalized Energy Use GJ/MM LBS SHP 328.3 347.9 342.9
Combined (Process and Transport) CO2e Tons 384,350 398,981 441,045
Process  CO2e Tons 189,973 192,318 207,741
Transport CO2e Tons 194,377 206,600 233,304
Normalized Combined CO2e   Tons CO2e /MM LBS SHP 71.9 78.1 88.8
Global Net Water Use Thousand Gallons 288,416 282,443 279,225
Global Water Input Thousand Gallons 520,888 499,141 489,454
Global Water Effluent Thousand Gallons 232,472 216,698 210,229
Normalized Global Water UseThousand Gallons/MM  
LBS SHP97.5 97.7 98.6
Total Waste Produced Tons 60,695 60,617 60,854
Hazardous Waste Produced Tons 828 746 752
Non-hazardous Solid Waste Produced Tons 18,736 20,012 22,003
Wastewater Trucked for Offsite Disposal Tons 29,672 27,513 23,552
Recycled Non-hazardous Waste Produced Tons 11,459 12,346 14,547
Normalized Waste Produced Tons/MM LBS SHP 11.4 11.9 12.3
Environmental Penalties Total $0 $22,032 $250
Total Reported Releases Total 5 4 2
Accidental Releases Total 4 3 1
Continuous Releases Total 1 1 1
Total Employees Total 4,707 4,485 4,408
Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Total 3,777 3,503 3,408
Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) Total 930 982 1,000SUST AINABILITY  PERFORMANCE  DATA  SUSTAINABILITY  PERFORMANCE  DATA 56 The following adjustments were made on past data in this report:
GHG net tons and normalized data for 2015 and 2016 have been adjusted to align with the 2015 CDP 
reporting by Church & Dwight including use of location specific CDP emission factors and references for GHG calculations and identified reporting errors.Total Female Employees Percent 40 39 40
Female Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Percent 38 38 39
Female Employees – International  
(Outside of U.S.)Percent 47 46 47
Total Male Employees Percent 60 61 60
Male Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Percent 62 62 61
Male Employees – International  (Outside of U.S.)Percent 53 54 53
Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred 
(DART) Rate (Global)Recordable Incidents/100 FTE0.8 1.1 1.3
Net Sales Billions $3.78 $3.49 $3.39
Consumer Domestic Sales Millions $2,854.9 $2,677.8 $2,581.6
Consumer International Sales Millions $621.1 $525.2 $501.0
Specialty Products Sales Millions $300.2 290.1 $312.2
Employee Giving Fund Distributions Millions $1.2 $1.2 $1.2ENVIRONMENTAL Indicator Unit 2017 2016 2015
57 
Our 2017 Sustainability Report continues our commitment to 
transparently communicate our sustainability efforts. 
The report reflects our performance for the year ended December 31, 2017, along with prior 
data and information on changes to our operations, plants, and data collection process, where relevant.  The report also references 2018 initiatives planned at the time of publishing the report. 
To lead the collection of information and the report preparation process, we assembled 
a team representing Environmental, Health and Safety, Finance, Human Resources, Law, Marketing, Operations, Procurement, and Research and Development. 
The report is closely aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative’s 
Standards. We have addressed GRI’s four Reporting Principles in defining the scope  
and content of this Sustainability Report:
Stakeholder Inclusiveness  – The report addresses those topics 
that are of greatest interest to a broad range of stakeholders.
Sustainability Context – We reference the key sustainability  
challenges that our company is facing, and how our actions and 
performance fit into the larger context; see for example our  
discussion of responsible sourcing and palm oil.
Materiality – The report covers our significant economic,  
environmental and social impacts.
Completeness  – We provide information on our global operations, 
representing company-wide performance throughout 2017.
ABOUT THIS  REPORT 58 Employment and EHS indicators include all our operated manufacturing 
and distribution facilities, our R&D Corporate Technical Center, and our corporate headquarters, with select smaller scale operations excluded. Please use the following link to be directed to our website 2017 Annual Report for more information on our company, joint ventures and subsidiaries worldwide.
We welcome input from stakeholders, including 
customers, consumers, shareholders, nonprofit organizations, neighbors, and employees,  
who seek to help us improve our business  
and sustainability performance.
 
Please send questions or comments about this report to  
sustainability@churchdwight.com.  
For all other inquiries, please visit our website at  
http://www.churchdwight.com. 
ABOUT THIS  REPORT  59 GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-1 Name of organization Church & Dwight Co, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services About Church & Dwight
102-3 Location of headquarters Ewing, New Jersey, US
102-4 Location of operations About Church & Dwight
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form About Church & Dwight
102-6 Markets served About Church & Dwight
102-7 Scale of the organization About Church & Dwight
102-8 Total workforce Sustainability Performance Data
102-9 Supply chain Responsible Sourcing
102-10 Significant changes to the organizations  
and its supply chainAbout Church & Dwight
102-11 Precautionary approach • Product Safety
• Products
102-12 External initiatives • Stakeholder Engagement
• Responsible Sourcing
102-13 Membership in associations Stakeholder Engagement
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms  
of behavior• Sustainability Approach
• Stakeholder Engagement
• Responsible Sourcing
102-18 Governance structure See the Corporate Governance section of  
our website
102-40 List of stakeholder groups • Stakeholder Engagement
• About This Report
102-42 Selection of stakeholders About This ReportWe align our sustainability reporting with the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards, an internationally recognized guidance for transparency in sustainability performance.
The Index below lists the GRI indicators addressed in this report, and either includes the 
information directly or provides a page reference to the relevant section(s) within this Sustainability Report.GRI INDEX60 102-43 Approach to engagement • Stakeholder Engagement
• About This Report
102-45 Entities included in the report About This Report
102-46 Defining report content • Sustainability Approach
• About This Report
102-48 Restatements of information • Greenhouse Gas Emissions
• Sustainability Performance Data
102-49 Significant changes in report scope and 
boundariesThere were no significant changes in the scope and boundaries of our reporting for 2016.
102-50 Reporting period About This Report
102-51 Date of previous report Our previous report was published in 2016 and 
included performance data for calendar year 2015.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point About This Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the  
GRI StandardsAbout This Report
102-55 GRI index GRI Index
102-56 External assurance Energy Use
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 
201-1 Direct economic value
• About Church & Dwight
• Our Brands
• Our Communities
• Sustainability Performance Data
205-2 Communication and training about  
anti-corruption policies and proceduresResponsible Sourcing
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE301-1 Recycled input materials used Packaging
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
• Energy Use 
• Sustainability Performance Data
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 
organizationSustainability Performance Data
302-3 Energy intensity • Energy Use 
• Sustainability Performance Data
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy UseGRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)GRI INDEX61 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source • Water
• Sustainability Performance Data
303-2 Water sources significantly affected by 
withdrawal of waterWater
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions • GHG Emissions
• Sustainability Performance Data
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions • GHG Emissions
• Sustainability Performance Data
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions • GHG Emissions
• Sustainability Performance Data
305-4 GHG emissions intensity • GHG Emissions
• Sustainability Performance Data
305-5 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions • Energy Use
• GHG Emissions
305-7 SOx, NOx, and other air emissions GHG Emissions
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination • Water
• Sustainability Performance Data
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method • Waste
• Sustainability Performance Data
306-3 Significant spills Spills/Releases to the Environment
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste • Waste
• Sustainability Performance Data
306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoffWater
307-1 Environmental fines and sanctions Citations and Penalties/Surcharges
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 
management-worker health and safety committeesEach of our facilities has a Safety Committee with management and worker representation
403-2 Rates of injury
• Workplace Safety
• Sustainability Performance Data
403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of 
diseases related to their occupationChurch & Dwight has no locations or types of workers that experience high incidence or risk of 
occupational diseasesGRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)GRI INDEX62 404-1 Average hours of training per year Training & Development
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programsTraining & Development
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviewsAll Church & Dwight employees receive an annual performance review
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies  or proceduresResponsible Sourcing
413-1 Community engagement
• Our Brands
• Community Support
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts  
of products and services• Product Safety
• Spotlight: Animal Productivity
• Ingredients
417-2 Product and service information and labeling Church & Dwight experienced no incidents of  
non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes 
regarding product labeling in 2017.
417-3 Marketing communications Church & Dwight experienced no incidents of  
non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes regarding marketing communications in 2017.GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
GRI INDEX2017  
Sustainability Report