2
INTRODUCTION
CHURCH & DWIGHT AT A GLANCE
OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY & ESG PILLARS  
PILLAR 1 – OUR BRANDS
PILLAR 2 – PRODUCTS
PILLAR 3 – PACKAGING
PILLAR 4 – EMPLOYEES & COMMUNITIES
PILLAR 5 – ENVIRONMENT
PILLAR 6 – RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
ABOUT THIS REPORT
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA
GRI INDEX
SASB INDEX06
10
124
126
128
13553
65
75
81
98
118TABLE OF
CONTENTS
3
INTRODUCTION
A MESSAGE 
FROM OUR CEO 
We began in 1846 as a baking soda business. Today, we are a top-tier Consumer 
Products Company with a large portfolio of brands that consumers love, especially 
the ARM & HAMMER® brand.
We have a rich heritage of commitment to people and have long regarded 
ourselves as a friend of the environment. Over 100 years ago, we began using 
recycled materials in our cartons. We were the first U.S. manufacturer to remove 
phosphates from laundry detergent. We were the first and only corporate 
sponsor of the inaugural Earth Day in 1970. Today, 100% of our direct operations’ 
global electricity needs are offset with renewable sources. We are reducing our 
environmental footprint by increasing renewable energy usage at our facilities, 
reducing water usage and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, reducing solid waste 
to landfills, developing environmentally responsible packaging and improving our 
suppliers’ environmental practices.
Church & Dwighters are goal-oriented people. To create a compass for our 
sustainability program, we have established aggressive goals for ourselves. Our 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) efforts are directed towards improving 
the sustainability profile of our operations and products, positively impacting our 
employees and the communities in which we operate and minimizing the 
environmental impact of our expanding global operations.
Our top environmental goal is to achieve carbon 
neutrality for global operations owned and 
controlled by us by the end of 2025. We 
have already offset more than 70% of our 
carbon dioxide emissions. To achieve 
carbon neutrality, we partnered with the 
Arbor Day Foundation in 2016, and over 
the years have grown to be its largest 
forestry carbon partner. Through this partnership we’ve supported the planting and growing of millions of trees in the 
Mississippi River Valley and the protection of existing forests in Canada and Peru. 
These trees will remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and emit life-sustaining 
oxygen. In 2021, we established new science-based targets and submitted our 
application to the Science-Based Targets Initiative. These new targets take into 
account the level of carbon reduction needed to meet the goals set forth in the Paris 
Agreement. Our absolute GHG emissions in 2021 (Scopes 1 + 2 and targeted Scope 3) 
decreased approximately 4% versus 2020.
We are continuing to pursue our strategy to ensure that our plastic packaging 
has minimal impact on the environment by eliminating or reducing plastic from 
our packaging wherever it is practical, including seeking non-plastic alternatives 
and reducing plastic weight where possible, increasing plastic recyclability and 
circularity through plastic component simplification and consumer education 
and by increasing the amount of Post-Consumer Recycled (PCR) plastic in our 
packaging. Our new concentrated liquid laundry detergent formulas, launching in 
2022, will mean that less liquid detergent (and therefore less plastic packaging) is 
required to deliver the same number of washloads.   This change alone is projected 
to reduce the amount of High-Density Polyethylene plastic in our bottle portfolio 
by well over 3,000 Tons in 2022. Our goal is to increase PCR plastic to a minimum 
of 25% average across all global plastic packaging by end of 2025. Currently, 
18.4% of our plastic packaging is PCR. Building on our progress, we are continuing 
the foundational work necessary to disclose a meaningful virgin plastic packaging 
reduction goal in next year’s Sustainability Report.
Since early 2020, the world has faced the challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic. With 
more than 5,100 employees at over 30 sites around the world, the safety and wellness 
of our employees have been and continue to be our top priorities. Recognizing that 
the mental health of our employees is as important as their physical well-being, 
we launched the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to provide free professional 
support to our employees who may be dealing with relationship, emotional, substance 
abuse or other issues. In 2021, we also launched the Church & Dwight Employee 
Relief Fund (ERF) to provide financial assistance to those Church & Dwighters who 
have experienced financial hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue 
to work through this challenging chapter, and I remain confident we will emerge as 
a much stronger and more sustainable company.
4
INTRODUCTION
Matthew T. Farrell 
President and Chief Executive Officer
We embrace the diversity of our employees and believe that a diverse and 
inclusive workforce fosters innovation and cultivates an environment filled with 
unique perspectives, talents and experiences. Diversity is a strength and makes 
us better. We are dedicated to maintaining a culture of belonging at Church & 
Dwight, and have addressed in this Report our goals, programs and commitments 
regarding Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI).
We take great pride in fostering an enduring culture of “doing well by doing 
good.” By focusing on making meaningful contributions to society each of us 
can create a stronger, more resilient company while contributing to a better 
world. In 2021, we matched, dollar for dollar, donations our employees made 
to the Church & Dwight Employee Giving Fund (EGF), an employee-run giving 
program that primarily supports charitable organizations where our employees 
work and live. Recently, given the scale of the humanitarian crisis in and around 
Ukraine, the EGF expanded its reach to collect funds from employees globally 
for the International Red Cross, with Church & Dwight matching employee 
contributions. The EGF contributed $1.2 million to 225 deserving organizations 
in a variety of areas in 2021, and it has contributed over $15 million to charitable 
organizations in the U.S. to date. In addition, six organizations in the DEI and 
Environmental Sustainability space were chosen in 2021 by the Church & 
Dwight Philanthropic Foundation (the “Foundation”) to receive grants totaling 
$1 million in the aggregate. Established in 2020, the Foundation is administered 
by C&D employees and focused on helping to create equitable and inclusive 
opportunities and advancing environmental preservation.
While we have made significant progress, we missed some of our goals. In 
2021, we achieved a 4% reduction in global process water and/or wastewater 
normalized to production against our overall annual goal of 10%. Normalized 
total GHG emissions per weight of product shipped and normalized energy 
use were reduced in 2021 by 3% and 4%, respectively, each falling short of 
our 10% reduction target due to erratic production related to the COVID 
pandemic. We made positive steps in 2021 with regard to DEI, but we are not 
satisfied with our representation numbers.We have a clear roadmap to meet our Sustainability and related ESG goals. For 
our efforts in 2021, we earned public recognition, including being listed as one of 
Forbes America’s Top Midsize Employers, Forbes Green Growth 50, Newsweek’s 
Most Sustainable Companies, Newsweek’s America’s Most Trusted Companies, the 
EPA’s Green Power Partnership Top 100, the Wall Street Journal’s Top 250 Best Run 
Companies, and in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Please read this Report to see the progress we have made over the past year to 
make Church & Dwight a better company.
5
INTRODUCTION
2021 AT A GLANCE
OUR BRANDS
PRODUCTSPACKAGING
EMPLOYEES & COMMUNITIESRESPONSIBLE SOURCINGLaunched our first recyclable tube  
to help support our recycling initiatives in the Oral 
Care space
Eliminated PVC from  
our packaging  in our fully 
integrated (non-pharma product) 
portfolio
Created a COVID relief fund  
to provide financial support to 
employees adversely affected by the 
COVID-19 pandemicExpanded our Employee Assistance 
Program to all global locations to provide 
enhanced support and benefits during the  
COVID-19 pandemic
Contributed approximately  
$2.2 million  to our communities  
through donations and grants from 
our employee led giving program and 
employee administered foundationAssessed 94% of at-risk suppliers
Sourced over  97% of  
our palm oil  derivative traceable  
back to the mills
Increased our support of certified 
diverse suppliers by 35% (by spend)
CLIMATE CHANGE
Established new  
science-based targets  
and submitted our application to the 
Science-Based Targets Initiative
Offset 73% of our targeted GHG emissionsReduced targeted GHG emissions 
(Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3 
transportation in North America), both 
absolute and normalized by productionVITAFUSION brand team 
planted trees in underserved 
communities across the U.S.  
in partnership with The Fruit Tree 
Planting foundation 
TROJAN brand team donated and raised 
money in support of the youth sex-ed 
non-profit, HiTOPS, by being a “Finish-Line 
Sponsor” of its annual half-marathon race
ARM & HAMMER Laundry Detergent 
brand team partnered with Dress for 
Success on the “Your Hour, Her Power” 
campaign to empower women 
and lighten their loadFIRST RESPONSE brand team 
provided support to the Black Mama’s 
Matter Alliance and Every Mother 
Counts and their commitment to 
addressing maternal health 
inequities
Removed over 99%  of 
Chemicals  of Concern from our 
global portfolio of formulated productsENVIRONMENT
Recycled or beneficially reused 
approximately 32 million  
pounds of waste material
Increased female and U.S. 
minority representation 
at the management levelImproved overall 
recyclability  across our  
broad portfolio of products  
(excluding newly-acquired brands)
Achieved 100% 
Ingredient Disclosure   
on pack or on-line world-wideReduced water use by 4% 
normalized to production
Reduced energy use by 3% 
in absolute terms6
INTRODUCTION
CHURCH & DWIGHT 
AT A GLANCE
Our Company  
At Church & Dwight, we are focused on creating an inclusive, 
stronger, more resilient company while contributing to a better, 
more sustainable world.  
Founded in 1846
Headquartered in Ewing, NJ    
Over 30 locations around the World
2021 Net Sales of $5,190.1MM
2021 T otal Stockholder Return of 17.9%  
Publicly traded on New York  
Stock Exchange (CHD)
7
INTRODUCTION
$3,941. 9$336. 0
$912. 2OUR THREE DIVISIONS
Consumer Domestic Consumer International Specialty Products
• Household and personal care products  
for the U.S. market• Primarily personal care products for  
international markets• Animal and food production products
• Bulk sodium bicarbonate 
• Specialty cleaning products
Our consumer products are sold within the U.S. 
under a variety of brands through a broad 
distribution platform that includes  
supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale 
clubs, drugstores, convenience stores, home 
stores, dollar and other discount stores, pet and 
other specialty stores, and websites and other 
e-commerce channels, all of which sell our  
products to consumers.A variety of our personal care, household and 
over-the-counter products (including some of our 
“power brands”) are sold in international  
(non-U.S.) markets, including Australia, Canada, 
France, Germany, Mexico and the United 
Kingdom, and in more than 130 global export 
markets around the world, including China, Japan 
and India. We manage over 60 brands in  
international markets. Our specialty products are sold to industrial 
customers, livestock producers and through 
distributors.
 
2021 Net Sales ($millions)
Consumer - Domestic
Consumer - International
Specialty Products8
INTRODUCTION
OUR BRANDS  
We develop, manufacture and market a broad range of consumer household, 
personal care and specialty products. Our consumer products marketing efforts 
are focused principally on our 14 “power brands.” These well-recognized brand 
names include ARM & HAMMER® baking soda, cat litter, laundry detergent, 
carpet deodorizer and other baking soda based products; TROJAN® condoms, 
lubricants and vibrators; OXICLEAN® stain removers, cleaning solutions, 
laundry detergents and bleach alternatives; SPINBRUSH® battery-operated 
toothbrushes; FIRST RESPONSE® home pregnancy and ovulation test kits; 
NAIR® depilatories; ORAJEL® oral analgesic; XTRA® laundry detergent; L’IL 
CRITTERS® and VITAFUSION® gummy dietary supplements for children and 
adults, respectively; BATISTE® dry shampoo; WATERPIK® water flossers and 
showerheads; FLAWLESS® beauty-products; ZICAM® cold relief and shortening 
products; and THERABREATH® alcohol-free mouthwash.
POWER BRANDS
9
INTRODUCTION
OUR PEOPLE  
In their everyday work, our employees embody our commitments to integrity, quality and 
innovation, and in doing so, they directly contribute to our long-standing character and reputation.  
3.1%
87.1%9.8%
51.4% 48.6%
7.76%5.10%
7.65%Location Hourly vs. Salaried
2021 Turnover (20.57%)
RetirementHourly Salaried Americas EMEA APAC
Voluntary (Non-retirement) Involuntary
For more information on our employee metrics, see “Employees and Communities”” starting on Page 81.5,138 Employees 
(globally) in over  
30 locationsProductivity:
Revenue Per  
Employee
$1,010,140
10
INTRODUCTION
OUR SUSTAINABILITY 
STRATEGY & ESG PILLARS   
Our global sustainability strategy is derived from our heritage and organizational values. 
We believe that sustainable operations are both financially and operationally beneficial 
to our business, as well as critical to the health of the communities in which we operate. 
Sustainability is how we refer to our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts 
as part of our overall success in delivering growth and profitability while making a 
meaningful and positive impact and contributing to a better world. 
ENVIRONMENTAL
We strive to meet the challenge of managing our environmental footprint and to 
minimize the impact or our expanding global operations. Our environmental top 
priorities include providing effective products that are safe for our consumers, the 
animals they care for and the environment, developing and producing consumer 
friendly and environmentally responsible packaging improvements across all our global 
brands, reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, reducing water usage, recycling 
solid waste and improving our suppliers’ environmental practices.
11
INTRODUCTION
We have a goal to achieve carbon neutral status for our owned and 
controlled global operations by 2025, and we have already offset more than 
70% of our carbon dioxide emissions. In furtherance of our commitment to 
reduce our GHG emissions, we recently established new science-based 
targets and submitted our application to the Science-Based Targets Initiative. 
These new targets take into account the level of carbon reduction needed 
to meet the goals set forth in the Paris Agreement. In addition, we improved 
overall recyclability across our broad portfolio of products, with global 
recyclability increasing from 71% to 84% since 2018. Almost all (99.8%) 
of our paper and board packaging is sourced from recycled material and/
or sustainably managed forests. We have a goal to increase Post-Consumer 
Recycled plastic to a minimum of 25% average across all global plastic 
packaging by end of 2025, and by the end of 2021 we had achieved 
approximately 18.4% against that goal.
Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules 
and regulations relating to environmental concerns, and we endeavor to 
take actions necessary to comply with such regulations. These steps include 
periodic environmental and health and safety audits of our facilities. The 
audits, conducted by independent firms with expertise in environmental, 
health and safety compliance, include site visits at each location, as well as, 
a review of documentary information, to determine compliance with such 
federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations.
Please see “Products”, “Packaging”, “Environment” and “Responsible Sourcing” 
for further details and highlights regarding our ESG - Environmental efforts.
12
INTRODUCTION
SOCIAL 
Our Social focus includes our goals of delighting 
consumers with our brands through our contributions  
towards a more sustainable world, improving our suppliers’  
labor, health and safety, environmental and ethical practices,  
and supporting our employees - all to create a stronger, more 
resilient company while contributing to a better world.  
In their everyday work, employees embody our commitments to integrity, quality 
and innovation, and in doing so, directly contribute to our long-standing character 
and reputation. Employee safety and wellness are top priorities. We developed and 
administered company-wide policies to ensure the safety of each team member and 
compliance with OSHA standards and implemented COVID-19 protocols across all 
locations to ensure both the safety of our employees and compliance with federal and 
local requirement and guidelines. Recognizing that the mental health of our employees 
is as important as their physical well-being, we increased the reach of our Employee 
Assistance Program (EAP) to provide free professional support to our employees who 
may be dealing with a variety of issues, including relationship, emotional, substance 
abuse and others. In 2021, we also launched the Church & Dwight Employee Relief  
Fund (ERF) to lend a helping hand to those Church & Dwighters who have experienced 
financial hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
We embrace the diversity of our employees and believe that a diverse and inclusive 
workforce fosters innovation and promotes an environment filled with unique 
perspectives, talents and experiences. We strive to cultivate a culture and processes that 
support and enhance our ability to recruit, develop and retain diverse talent at every level. 
As part of our enhanced diversity and inclusion initiatives that began in 2020, and our 
commitments to transparency and accountability that will drive continuous progress, we 
are publishing workplace demographics of our employees in this Report.
We also encourage our employees to become involved in their communities through our 
Employee Giving Fund (EGF) and The Church & Dwight Philanthropic Foundation, which 
are described elsewhere in this Report.13
INTRODUCTION
We place a high priority on operating in a responsible, respectful and ethical 
manner. The Church & Dwight Code of Conduct (the “Code of Conduct”) 
provides guidance on a broad array of business ethics and legal compliance 
topics. In addition, our Global Operations Guiding Principles (the “Principles”), 
which are significantly aligned with the United Nations Declaration on Human 
Rights, address business ethics and compliance, anti-corruption, fair labor 
conditions, health and safety, and environmental protection, and reflect our 
commitment to internationally recognized standards and our support and respect 
for internationally proclaimed human rights. The Code of Conduct and Principles 
set out the minimum standards we require of ourselves and our suppliers.
Please see “Our Brands”, “Employees and Communities” and “Responsible 
Sourcing” for further details and highlights regarding our ESG - Social efforts.
GOVERNANCE  
Our governance focus includes the processes, resources and 
systems in support of our operational, sustainability and 
ESG efforts and is described in our Proxy Statement for our 
Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption 
“Sustainability Strategy and ESG Pillars”.
Our Corporate Issues Council (the “Council”) comprised of senior  
executives representing all our key functional areas, guides the integration of 
sustainability with all parts of our business and drives continuous  
improvement in our sustainability approach and performance. The Council 
takes the lead in defining and implementing our sustainability strategies across 
the six ESG pillars .  Its duties include allocating resources to appropriately 
address sustainability issues; reporting on our progress to drive continuous 
improvement in our sustainability approach and performance; and monitoring, 
prioritizing and addressing evolving standards and stakeholder requirements. 
Our Board of Directors, acting principally through its Governance, Nominating 
& Corporate Responsibility Committee, oversees our sustainability program and 
ESG efforts, including our climate change policies and programs.14
INTRODUCTION
The Governance, Nominating & Corporate Responsibility Committee, which changed 
its name in 2021 to more specifically address its overall responsibility for ESG 
and sustainability matters, focuses on governance, brands, products, packaging, 
responsible sourcing, environmental and all other aspects of ESG not otherwise 
overseen by the Compensation & Human Capital Committee and the Audit 
Committee.  Our Compensation & Human Capital Committee, which also changed 
its name in 2021 to more specifically address its responsibility for human capital 
matters, focuses on issues related to our people, including diversity, equity and 
inclusion. Our Audit Committee oversees our compliance and ethics program.
At each regularly scheduled quarterly Board meeting, the Chairs of our Governance, 
Nominating & Corporate Responsibility Committee, Compensation & Human Capital 
Committee and Audit Committee each reviews with our Board of Directors the status 
of the elements of our sustainability program and ESG elements over which they have 
oversight. These reviews are supplemented by the Chairs or members of management, 
from time to time, as requested by our Board of Directors or as appropriate.
In addition, our Executive Vice President and General Counsel, who is a member of the 
Council, meets regularly with the Governance, Nominating & Corporate Responsibility 
Committee, together with subject matter experts from the Council, to review the health 
of our sustainability program, opportunities for improvement, and the status of execution 
against agreed program priorities.  Our Board also reviews the results of our periodic 
employee engagement surveys and has oversight over our planned response strategy. 15
INTRODUCTION
While management has primary responsibility for stakeholder engagement, 
our Board of Directors, through its committees and as part of the strategic planning 
process, is regularly informed about and oversees these efforts. Our Independent 
Lead Director is responsible for ensuring that stockholder sustainability and ESG 
related requests, recommendations and proposals are evaluated by the Governance, 
Nominating & Corporate Responsibility Committee, additional committees within the 
Board as appropriate, and then by the Board of Directors, if needed.
For our efforts in 2021, we earned public recognition, including being listed as 
one of Forbes America’s T op Midsize Employers, Forbes Green Growth 50,  
Newsweek’s Most Sustainable Companies, Newsweek’s America’s Most Trusted 
Companies, the EPA’s Green Power Partnership T op 100, the Wall Street Journal’s 
T op 250 Best Run Companies, and the FTSE4Good Index Series, among others.
16
INTRODUCTION
       CORE                PILLARS
   OF SUSTAINABILITY6
Our goals related to each of our 
sustainability pillars are included 
with a discussion of each pillar  
on the following pages.17
INTRODUCTION
  
OUR BRANDS
Delight consumers  
with our brands & 
contribute towards a more 
sustainable world.PRODUCTS
Provide safe and 
effective products 
for consumers & the 
environment.PACKAGING
Utilize consumer  
friendly & environmentally 
responsible packaging.EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
Embrace the principles of 
diversity, equity and inclusion 
(“DEI”), good corporate 
citizenship and social 
responsibility within the 
communities we can impact.
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING
Improve our suppliers’ 
environmental, labor, 
health & safety and 
ethical practices.ENVIRONMENT
Minimize environmental 
impact of our global 
operations, with a focus  
on increased renewable 
energy usage, reduced 
water consumption, 
greenhouse gas  
emissions and solid  
waste to landfills.
Each is supported through our Governance 
practices that determine how we operate and align 
the interests of our stakeholders in support of 
ethical business practices and financial success.These six pillars are the core  
focus of our Environmental  
and Social efforts:18
INTRODUCTION
How we assess material issues  
We use the standards and guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board industry specific standards 
and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures to inform 
our sustainability and ESG disclosures. These disclosures are included in 
our Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”), our Proxy Statement 
for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders and this Sustainability Report 
(“Report”). The “materiality” thresholds in those standards and guidelines 
may differ from the concept of “materiality” for purposes of the federal 
securities laws and disclosures required by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission’s (“Commission”) rules in our Annual Report.
The inclusion of sustainability and ESG disclosures in this Report and in 
our other filings with the Commission does not necessarily imply that we 
consider them to be material for purposes of the federal securities laws 
or the Commission’s rules and regulations governing such disclosure.
Defining our material issues, including environmental matters and 
reputational risk, is an ongoing process overseen by the Council.  
The Council established the six pillars of our sustainability program 
(identified above) by collecting issues our various internal and external 
stakeholders expressed as sustainability priorities. The Council 
evaluates and ranks various risks and opportunities based on relative 
impact and likelihood, discusses the most significant sustainability 
issues, risks and opportunities we face, and determines which of our 
internal functions should be accountable for them. Our most 
material issues are listed in the table to the right, as well as an 
indication of whether the issue relates to our own operations, our  
upstream impacts in the supply chain, or our downstream impacts 
associated with customers and consumers.
Risk factors that we determined to be potentially material for us (as 
defined by federal securities laws and regulations) are reported in our  
Annual Report, which includes environmental matters and reputational risk.Topic
Upstream* Operations Downstream*
Our Brands
Engaging with customers and 
consumers; integrating 
sustainability
Products
Safe ingredients; disclosure
Packaging
Consumer-friendly and 
environmentally responsible
Employees &  
Communities
Diversity & Inclusion, gender 
equality and employee health 
Community-enhancing  
philanthropy and outreach
Responsible Sourcing
Suppliers’ environmental, labor, 
health & safety and ethical 
practices Palm Oil Derivatives
Environment
Energy and GHGs; 
Water & WasteWhere do the impacts occur?
*Upstream refers to the material inputs needed for production and impacts associated with those inputs and resources.  
 Downstream refers to impacts that occur where products are distributed and used.19
INTRODUCTION
Certain of our business activities and the production of some of the 
materials used in our products, including petroleum based, agricultural and 
forest materials and the growing global demand for livestock products which 
is the focus of our Animal and Food Production business, can contribute to 
deforestation, climate change and reduction in biodiversity, and can 
adversely impact water quality and availability, people and communities. 
Climate change is, in turn, a threat to each of those activities. While we strive 
to minimize the environmental impact of our global operations, a potential 
loss in business could result from reduced demand for our products and 
loss of customers if we do not meet their expectations related to our efforts 
towards sustainability and fighting climate change. Please see the “Climate 
Change” section of this Report for a discussion of climate change, our  
potential impacts and response.
How We Engage Stakeholders  
We regularly receive communications and inquiries from our stakeholders regarding 
our sustainability practices. Stakeholder issues are included on the agenda for 
each of the Council’s meetings, and sustainability and ESG related issues raised 
by investors and other stakeholders are reviewed with the Board’s Governance, 
Nominating & Corporate Responsibility Committee at each of its meetings.
Our customers continue to express interest in our performance with respect to 
climate impacts and mitigation, palm oil supply chain management, water use 
and social impacts in the supply chain. We respond to these requests by  
sharing information through the CDP Climate Change, Water and Forests 
Responses. The “Packaging”, “Environment” and “Responsible Sourcing”  
sections of this Report include more detail about our management of these topics.
We also work with our local communities to address concerns relating to our 
operations and engage with them through multiple channels including this  
Report, our filings with the Commission, our corporate website and one-on-one.
20
INTRODUCTION
Stakeholder Method of Engagement Material Topics of Greatest Interest
Our Employees• Employee engagement surveys
• Corporate Town Hall meetings
• Quarterly CEO video message 
• Digital signage and plant postings
• Plant meetings 
 • Plant management  
    produc tion walk throughs
• Intranet site 
• Newsletters – SCOOP and                                   
    Brand Buzz
• Social media postings
• Direct mailingBrands – Customer Engagement; Integrating Sustainability
Products – Safe Ingredients 
Packaging
Employees – D&I; Health & Safety
Community Outreach
Environment
Our Consumers• Consumer inquiries 
• Consumer surveys 
• Label claims, eco-logos,         
    ingredient listing• Social media postings
• Postings on company  
    websiteBrands – Customer Engagement; Integrating Sustainability
Products – Safe Ingredients; Disclosure
Packaging
Our Retail Customers  
and Partners• Trade partner supplier  
    expectations
• Commercial partner inquiries  
    or surveys• Meetings, conferences, 
    presentationsBrands – Customer Engagement; Integrating Sustainability
Products - Disclosure
Packaging
Responsible Sourcing
Environment
Our Peers and Suppliers• Peer benchmarking
• Supplier meetings • Assessments and disclosure 
    requests
• Trade meetings, conferences 
    or presentationsProducts - Ingredient Disclosure
Packaging
Shareholders and  
Investor Groups• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings 
• Investor conferences
• Individual communications (written, telephone or web-based)Brands – Customer Engagement
Products – Safe Ingredients; Disclosure
Packaging
Employees – D&I; Health & Safety
Environment – Energy and GHGs
Government and  
Regulatory Bodies• Monitoring of regulatory activity             • Inspections and surveys
• Face-to-face meetingsProducts – Safe Ingredients; Disclosure
Employees – Health & Safety
Environment – Regulatory Compliance
Non-Governmental Organi-
zations (NGOs)• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings 
• Reporting and disclosure expectationsProducts – Safe Ingredients; Disclosure
Packaging
Responsible Sourcing – Palm Oil
Environment
Industry Trade Associations• Business association newsletters, updates or mailings
• Working groups
• Participation in boards, advisory councilsProducts - Disclosure
Packaging
Environment
Local Communities and 
Community Groups• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings
• Charitable donations
• Sharing of best practicesBrands – Customer Engagement
Community Outreach
Media• Direct inquiries and feedback
• Communications (written, telephone or web-based)Brands – Customer Engagement
Community Outreach21
INTRODUCTION
In addition to the methods already outlined above, we also connect with stakeholders through our 
involvement with organizations such as industry groups, trade associations, nonprofits and  
coalitions, including those listed below:22
INTRODUCTION23
INTRODUCTION24
INTRODUCTION25
INTRODUCTION
Our membership in trade associations enables us to combine our efforts and collaborate with other similarly affected companies on a broad variety of  
issues important to us, e.g., responsible sourcing, sustainable packaging and products and nutrition to name a few. Annually, we evaluate our membership in 
these associations to ensure their actions are in line with our values and that we are obtaining commensurate business value to further build the business and 
increase shareholder value. However, as with many associations, there will be diverse points of view, and we will not agree with positions taken by each 
association on every issue. If we were to identify a misalignment on a policy issue, we would communicate directly with the association or organization and, if 
necessary, re-evaluate our future participation and support.  In all cases, our position on a matter of public policy is the prevailing company position, irrespective 
of any trade association position. We are consistent in the positions we share with external stakeholders as well as in our trade association engagement.26
INTRODUCTION
POLITICAL ADVOCACY  
As a company, we make no payments or contributions to political candidates, 
parties or committees (including those supporting or opposing ballot initiatives) 
or to other political entities organized and operating under 26 U.S.C. Sec. 527 of 
the Internal Revenue Code, such as the Democratic and Republican Governors 
Associations, or so-called “Super PACs.” In addition, we do not make  independent 
political expenditures in direct support of or opposition to political campaigns. A 
portion of the membership and other fees we pay to certain of the trade  
associations and other tax-exempt organizations (e.g.,501(c)(4)s) identified  
previously in this Report may be aggregated with fees contributed by all other 
members and used for that association/organization’s political purposes.  
Annually, we evaluate our membership in those associations/organizations to 
ensure their actions are in line with our values.
DATA PRIVACY AND CYBERSECURITY  
Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated 
computer crime, including ransomware, denial of service and phishing attacks and 
advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of our information 
technology systems, networks and services, and those of our customers and other 
business partners, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data, 
and the data of our customers and other business partners. Accordingly, we take 
cybersecurity and data privacy and security issues very seriously.
27
INTRODUCTION
One of the most important ways in which we protect ourselves against these 
risks is by increasing employee awareness.  Every year, all employees are  
required to take training to better understand the issues and risks relative to 
data privacy and cybersecurity. In addition, periodically throughout the year 
our IT department performs phishing and other exercises to both test our 
systems and reinforce the training.  Further, we have developed an Information 
Security Program, managed by our global chief information security officer 
(CISO) that is designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity and  
continued availability of all information owned by us, or in our care. This 
program also includes a cyber incident response plan that provides controls 
and procedures for timely and accurate reporting of any material cybersecurity 
incident, and its maturity is assessed annually by an external third party. 
Our Board of Directors oversees our Information Security Program, and 
several of our Board members have strong information technology/ 
cybersecurity knowledge and experience.  Acting principally through the 
Audit Committee, our Board is actively involved in the oversight of the 
significant risks affecting our business, including information security risks. 
Each of the members of the Audit Committee is independent within the 
meaning of the NYSE listing standards and meets the additional 
independence requirements of the NYSE listing standards applicable to audit  
committee members. Our Board of Directors receives updates on 
cybersecurity risks from our CISO on a quarterly basis, or more frequently if a 
material cyber matter arose. The Board of Directors and the Audit Committee 
receive updates about a third-party independent assessment of our  
cybersecurity program and our internal response preparedness at least 
annually.  They also receive quarterly updates on the results of exercises and 
response readiness. The Audit Committee regularly briefs the full Board of 
Directors on these matters, and the full Board also receives periodic briefings 
on cyber threats to enhance our directors’ literacy on cyber issues.
28
INTRODUCTION
DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY  
We collect, use and store personal data of our employees, customers and other 
third parties in the ordinary course of business. In addition, we sell certain of our 
products directly to consumers online and through websites, mobile apps and 
connected devices, and we offer promotions, rebates, customer loyalty and other 
programs through which our data systems may receive personal information.
We recognize the importance of data privacy and security and are committed 
to safeguarding and protecting our information and any other information 
entrusted to us. To date, we have not paid any penalties or settlements 
relative to an information security breach.
We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing global data 
privacy and security laws and regulations that apply to the collection, storage, 
use, transmission and protection of personal information and other consumer 
and employee data, including particularly the transfer of personal data between 
or among countries.  We have systems in place to monitor compliance with 
appropriate privacy laws and regulations, and with our own policies.
We have policies and procedures in place governing the secure storage of personal 
information collected by us or our third-party service providers.
29
INTRODUCTION
CYBERSECURITY  
We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed 
by third-party service providers, to conduct our business. Our information technology 
systems and, our third-party providers’ systems, have been, and will likely continue 
to be, subject to advanced computer viruses or other malicious codes, ransomware, 
unauthorized access attempts, denial of service attacks, phishing, social engineering, 
hacking and other cyberattacks. If we or our service providers, suppliers or customers 
experience system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively 
affected, which may result in a disruption in our supply chain or reduced customer 
orders or other business operations.  
T o reduce the likelihood of external cyber-attacks impacting our  
business, we have implemented cyber security controls, perimeter 
defenses and threat monitoring systems. In addition, we have immediate 
response capabilities in place to mitigate identified threats.  We also maintain a global 
system for the control and reporting of access to our critical IT systems, which is tested 
annually. We have instituted policies addressing the use of IT systems and applications 
by our employees. To protect our systems and information, we also have a set of IT  
security standards that we closely monitor in operation. Hardware, software and 
services that run and manage core operating data are fully backed up with separate 
contingency systems to provide backup operations should they ever be required. In 
addition, before being given access to our IT systems, contractors, vendors and other 
service providers are subject to a risk assessment. To date, we have not seen any  
material impact on our business or operations from cyber-attacks.
30
INTRODUCTION
CLIMATE CHANGE  
One of the most significant risks that the world 
faces today is climate change.  
It is widely recognized that continued emission of greenhouse gases (GHGs) will 
cause further warming of the planet that could lead to damaging planetary,  
economic and social consequences. At Church & Dwight, we recognize the urgent 
need to reduce our carbon footprint and do our part through resource efficiencies, 
renewable energy use and a reduced carbon footprint. Our understanding of our 
full carbon footprint continues to improve as we develop more robust analyses and 
build upon our engagement opportunities throughout our operations. The urgency 
of climate change requires us to rethink how we plan. It pushes us to develop new 
business models, partnerships, solutions and products for a more resilient company.
As climate change and other ESG and sustainability concerns become more  
prevalent, our stakeholders are increasingly sensitive to these issues. Our  
customers and consumers are demanding more transparency regarding our efforts 
to mitigate climate change impacts. During 2021, some of our major customers 
continued to request that we respond to various questionnaires, including the CDP 
Climate Change, Water and Forests Questionnaires. We engage with our  
stakeholders on an ongoing basis to understand and align with their ESG and  
sustainability requirements and concerns, including those related to climate.
31
INTRODUCTION
More detailed information on our climate change program is available in 
our 2021 CDP Climate Change Response, a copy of which is available on our 
website. In 2021, we received a B score from CDP on our Climate Change 
Response, which was down from our 2020 A- score. We believe that the 
reduction of our score is due in part to more companies providing robust 
responses and raising the overall level of transparency and commitment. We 
will perform a detailed year-over-year analysis of our identified strengths and 
weaknesses in order to improve our program and reporting. In addition, we 
will continue to build out a timely and effective climate strategy that aligns 
with CDP’s climate change priorities and expectations and drives continuous 
improvement in this area. In 2021, we also continued to align our evaluation 
and reporting of our efforts to reduce our carbon footprint with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD). The following disclosures regarding governance, strategy, risk 
management and metrics and targets are intended to align with TCFD’s 
recommended disclosure framework. For more information on the specific 
TCFD disclosures, refer to the TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED 
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES – INDEX on page 137 of this Report.
CDP is a nonprofit organization that operates a global disclosure system  
to provide consistent reporting of key environmental impacts.
Visit website to learn more.
32
INTRODUCTION
GOVERNANCE  
As we noted above in this Report, in addition to other aspects of our sustainability 
program, the Board of Directors, predominantly through its Governance,  
Nominating & Corporate Responsibility Committee, oversees our environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) efforts. Through that Committee and our strategic  
planning process, the Board has oversight over our climate change strategy and  
supporting action plans and annual budgets and business plans. Our Corporate  
Issues Council (the “Council”) has direct management responsibility for our  
sustainability program and ESG priorities, including our climate change strategy. 
The Council is comprised of senior executives, subject matter experts and other 
representatives across various functions. Our Executive Vice President and General 
Counsel, who is a member of the Council, meets quarterly with the Governance, 
Nominating & Corporate Responsibility Committee, together with subject matter  
experts from the Council, to review the health of our sustainability and ESG  
program, its priorities, and the status of execution against those priorities.
This framework for Board oversight is designed to facilitate the integration of 
sustainability risks, including climate change, into our overall strategic processes. 
The Council monitors climate-related issues such as emerging regulations, extreme 
weather and business continuity, and changing market forces on an ongoing basis.
We regularly receive communications and inquiries from our stakeholders regarding 
our sustainability practices and our management of climate-related issues, and this 
also informs our understanding of important areas to address. The Council evaluates 
and discusses the most significant sustainability issues, risks and opportunities we 
face (including climate-related issues) and the functions within the company that 
should be accountable for them. Stakeholder issues are included on the agenda for 
each of the Council’s meetings and sustainability issues raised by investors and other 
stakeholders are reviewed with the Board’s Governance, Nominating & Corporate 
Responsibility Committee at each of its meetings.
33
INTRODUCTION
STRATEGY  
Our primary climate change strategic goal is for global operations 
owned and controlled by us to be carbon neutral by 2025,  
reducing and offsetting our carbon emissions through energy savings projects, 
renewable energy credits, onsite solar projects and tree planting. Our science-based 
climate mitigation targets, submitted for validation in December 2021, take into account 
the level of carbon reduction needed to meet the goals set forth in the Paris Agreement. 
To improve our understanding of climate change impacts in our supply chain, we have 
increased the level of engagement with contract manufacturers. We have developed a 
comprehensive Scope 3 emissions inventory and reported those emissions in our CDP 
Climate Change Response in 2021. See further discussion of Scope 3 emissions and our 
science-based targets in the “Metrics and Targets” section below. 
As we evaluate and strengthen our supply chain to minimize disruptions, we are seeking 
opportunities to shorten our supply chain and increase resilience, which may provide 
opportunities to reduce Scope 3 emissions by optimizing and minimizing total miles of 
material and product transportation.
In addition to carbon neutral and science-based targets goals, we are addressing the  
impacts that climate change may have on our operations, including extreme weather, water 
and other resource restrictions, and increased temperature impacts on food production and 
other natural resource production. We consider climate change impacts in  our business 
planning and strategy and in our product and packaging design. For example:
• We strive to eliminate or reducing plastic from our packaging wherever it is practical, 
including seeking non-plastic alternatives and reducing plastic weight where possible, 
increasing plastic recyclability and circularity through plastic component simplification 
and consumer education, and by increasing the amount of Post-Consumer Recycled 
(PCR) plastic in our packaging.
• We invest in R&D for new products and packaging formulated to minimize water and  
energy requirements, reduce package weight and increase recyclability of packaging – all 
of which help reduce our Scope 3 emissions by reducing our use of resources and  
reducing consumer waste. Scope 3 emissions are the result of activities from assets 
not owned or controlled by us, but that our organization indirectly impacts either in the 
upstream supply of materials and resources or in the downstream distribution and use of 
our products (i.e., our “value chain”).
34
INTRODUCTION
Our Approach to Climate Resilience 
In considering our overall climate resilience strategy, we think of resilience as both our  
capacity to recover from and adapt to the physical impacts of climate change and our 
ability to respond to the impacts of policy and market shifts brought about in response to 
climate change. These efforts impact many of the issues identified in this Report, including 
being active water stewards, reducing packaging waste, encouraging our suppliers to  
produce our ingredients in more sustainable ways and considering the climate impacts of 
our operations as we innovate for increased efficiency and better value creation.  
Risks and Opportunities
A few examples of our most significant climate-related risks, as 
set forth in our Annual Report, are discussed below: 
• Reduced availability of transportation or disruptions in our  
transportation network could adversely affect us.  
We distribute our products and receive raw materials and packaging components 
primarily by truck, rail and ship and through various ports of entry.  Reduced 
availability of trucking, rail or shipping capacity due to adverse weather conditions, 
natural disasters, including climatic events (or other potential effect of climate 
change), allocation of assets to other industries or geographies or otherwise, work 
stoppages, closure of operations due to government restrictions or sick  
employees or other impacts of pandemics, strikes or shutdowns of ports of entry 
or such transportation sources, could lead to inflationary cost pressures, cause us 
to incur unanticipated expenses and impair our ability to distribute our products or 
receive our raw materials or packaging components in a timely manner, which could 
disrupt our operations, strain our customer relationships and competitive position.
• We are subject to increasing focus and sensitivity by governmental, 
non-governmental organizations, customers, consumers and  
investors to ESG issues, including those related to climate change.  
As climate change, land use, water use, deforestation, recyclability or recoverability 
of packaging, plastic waste, ingredients and other ESG concerns become more  
prevalent, federal, state and local governments, non-governmental organizations and 
our customers, consumers and investors are increasingly concerned about these issues. 
35
INTRODUCTION
Their requirements and preferences could negatively impact our ability to obtain raw 
materials or could increase its acquisition and compliance costs or cause us to 
contribute funds to recycling and other waste management infrastructure, thus 
making our products more costly, less competitive than other competitive products 
or reduce consumer demand. This increased focus on ESG may result in new laws, 
regulations and requirements that could cause disruptions in, or increased costs 
associated with, manufacturing our products. This could cause us to incur additional 
costs or to make changes to our operations to comply with any of the foregoing. 
We could also lose revenue if our consumers change brands or our customers move 
business from us because we have not complied with their ESG requirements and 
ESG-conscious investors may choose not to invest in our Common Stock if we do 
not comply with their business expectations.
We have recognized that our customers and consumers are 
increasingly demanding transparency regarding our efforts to 
mitigate our impacts on climate change.  
For example, during 2021, some of our major customers requested we respond to  
various questionnaires, including CDP Climate Change, Water and Forests  
Questionnaires, and use our responses and CDP grades to evaluate us. Efforts to meet 
these standards could impact our costs, and failure to meet our customers’ expectations 
could impact our sales. Certain of our business activities and the production of some of 
the materials used in our products and certain of our business activities, including  
petroleum based, agricultural and forest materials, and the growing global demand for 
livestock products which is a focus of our Animal and Food Production business,  
contribute to deforestation and climate change and reduction in biodiversity, and can  
adversely impact water quality and availability, people and communities. Climate change 
is, in turn, a threat to each of those activities. While we strive to minimize the  
environmental impact of our global operations, a potential loss in business could result 
from reduced demand for our products and loss of customers if we do not meet their 
expectations related to our efforts towards sustainability and fighting climate change.
36
INTRODUCTION
We have also identified significant climate-related opportunities to improve our 
business performance, including the following examples:
•  Products and services  – We continue to identify opportunities for new products 
and packaging formulated to minimize water or energy requirements in manufacture 
or consumer use and increase recyclability of packaging. Examples of product  
improvements already implemented include laundry products tailored to high-efficiency 
appliances, and greater recyclability of our products through How2Recycle labeling.
•  Access to new markets – We recognize that our customers and consumers are 
increasingly demanding transparency regarding our efforts to mitigate our impacts 
on climate change. We continuously strive to respond to customer and consumer  
concerns or perceptions regarding practices for packaging materials, such as plastic 
packaging, and their sustainability performance. In 2021, our continued efforts in 
key areas of sustainability earned recognition from various third parties, as noted 
in this Report. Activities that help establish and improve this reputation enable us 
to maintain existing markets and expand into other markets and consumer  
segments where these ideals are valued.
•  Resource efficiency  - Reducing energy use will reduce the costs associated with 
procuring and managing energy, materials and water. Our primary environmental 
strategic goal is for operations owned and controlled by us to be carbon neutral by 
2025, by offsetting our carbon emissions through energy savings projects, 
renewable energy credits, onsite solar project and planting trees. As part of this 
goal, our collective facility-level objectives are designed to reduce total energy 
consumption or at minimum, remain energy neutral on a year-to-year basis. To 
achieve this, certain of our plants have implemented a variety of energy efficiency 
projects. Our CDP Climate Change Response contains more detailed information 
regarding the impact of these opportunities and the following risks on our  
business, strategy and financial planning.
37
INTRODUCTION
RISK MANAGEMENT 
Risk assessment and risk management are the responsibility 
of our management, and our Board of Directors has oversight 
responsibility for those processes and findings.  
The Board and its committees oversee the execution of our environmental,  
social, governance and sustainability strategies and initiatives as an integral part 
of the overall strategy and risk management.  The Audit Committee of the Board 
of Directors oversees our enterprise risk assessment program, and our ethics and 
compliance program, each of which is supported by our Internal Audit department. 
We actively manage climate-related risks in a way that is integrated with our overall 
business risk management approach. Our Internal Audit department administers a 
vigorous risk assessment effort every other year, in collaboration with all our  
directors and executive officers. This process is designed to identify and rank the 
most significant risks that affect us as a company by considering the risks  
associated with companies in the consumer products industry. The assessed risks 
include sustainability risks, as well as other risks such as economic, industry,  
enterprise, operational, compliance and financial risks. As part of the risk  
management process, our Internal Audit department annually prepares an Internal 
Audit project plan under which it reviews activities directed to mitigate business and 
financial related risks. This plan is subject to approval by the Audit Committee of our 
Board of Directors. Our Internal Audit Director meets quarterly with our executive 
officers to assess any changes in the magnitude of identified risks, as well as the  
status of mitigation activities regarding the most significant risks, and reports  
quarterly to the Audit Committee.
38
INTRODUCTION
Additional climate-related risks and opportunities that are 
relevant to our business, as well as how we manage them over 
the short, medium, and long term, are discussed below: 
• Current regulations  - The evaluation of applicability of current climate 
change regulations to our existing operations is primarily the responsibility of 
our Environmental & Safety Operations Department. For example, we track the 
applicability of greenhouse gas emissions reporting requirements at all our  
locations in the U.S. and elsewhere. All our U.S.-based operations are currently  
below the EPA 25,000 metric tons per facility GHG reporting threshold. 
Likewise, most of our international manufacturing operation emissions are 
below their respective reporting thresholds. Several sites do participate in state 
or provincial level emission reporting as required by rule. This responsibility also 
includes evaluating new acquisitions for regulatory applicability. The Law  
Department Regulatory Affairs evaluate impacts on a product level. Our  
businesses are not in industries heavily affected by existing or potential GHG 
regulation (such as power or automotive). Relevant risks are included on the 
agenda of our Corporate Issues Council (the “Council”).
• Emerging Regulations  – The evaluation of emerging climate change 
regulations to existing and new operations is the responsibility of our Law and 
Environmental & Safety Operations Departments, as well as the Council. 
Additionally, our Chemicals of Concern Committee monitors and tracks 
emerging data and trends for chemicals that are being reviewed for  
environmental impact. Each department has a responsibility to ensure that 
proposed relevant legislation and regulations are included on the agenda of 
the Council. For example, we are monitoring global regulatory trends regarding 
carbon pricing and tax frameworks, particularly in the European Union. Facilities 
may need to allocate additional staff resources in the future if lower reporting 
thresholds for greenhouse gas emissions are enacted. 
39
INTRODUCTION
• T echnology  - We have publicly stated GHG emission reduction goals.  
Relevant technology that supports those goals is evaluated by various departments 
throughout the organization, for example, lighting efficiency improvements that will 
reduce energy consumption, or new energy monitoring technologies that could create 
energy savings opportunities. Risks may be associated with cost-effective technology 
not being available to continue reducing our energy consumption into the future.
• Legal - Any sustainability-related legal issues that could have a material impact 
on us are evaluated and discussed by the Council. To date, we have not identified any 
climate-related risks associated with actual or potential litigation against us.
• Market  – Our customers and the relevant climate change issues that are 
important to their sustainability strategies are relevant and important to us. We 
respond to their inquiries of our operations, implement appropriate product 
formulation changes, and make adjustments to meet many global initiatives. For 
instance, major retailers that sell our products are requesting greenhouse gas 
reduction initiatives from their suppliers, and we are responsive to their requests. 
We discuss climate-related issues with our customers, directly and through 
industry association reporting initiatives.
• Supply Chain - To improve our understanding of climate change impacts in our 
supply chain, we have increased the level of engagement with contract manufacturers.
40
INTRODUCTION
• Acute Physical – We actively monitor the climate change issues 
that could have an acute effect on our operations such as increased severity 
of weather-related events. For example, some of our coastal facilities may be 
subject to business interruption due to climate-related risk of storm damage 
or flooding. We have established business continuity plans for our operations 
designed to be implemented in the event of a natural or man-made event. 
These plans are customized to address relevant concerns at each location. In 
addition, our supply chain relies upon the availability of shipping facilities to 
bring raw materials and intermediate goods into the U.S. In recent years, 
hurricanes and tropical storms have affected port operations and severe 
weather/flooding in the central U.S. has disrupted rail service and chemical 
production, posing potential business risks in the form of interruption to our 
raw material availability and ability to transport products. 
• Chronic physical  – Water availability is a significant factor for some of 
our manufacturing sites. We manufacture products, such as laundry detergent 
and other cleaning products, that contain water as an ingredient, while some 
products require water for processing. Future water scarcity could result in 
increased operating costs for manufacturing these products or affect our 
ability to manufacture product. We have publicly stated goals to reduce the 
impact of our operations and transportation by reducing our greenhouse gas 
emissions, support the generation of renewable energy and commit to 
reducing our water consumption by 10% per year on a normalized basis. We 
have locations that are near the oceans, including our facilities in Folkestone, 
UK, and Lakewood, NJ, and we monitor chronic conditions such as sea level 
rise, temperature increases, water quality and availability.
41
INTRODUCTION
METRICS AND TARGETS
Emissions  
GHG emissions are associated with all aspects of our supply chain and product use. Raw 
materials production, raw material transportation to the point of manufacture, product 
distribution and product use all have impacts. For the purposes of our current 2025 carbon 
neutral goal for global operations owned and controlled by us, we define our GHG  
emissions inventory to include those emissions over which we have direct control. This 
includes Scope 1 direct emissions from our operated facilities, and Scope 2 indirect 
emissions from our operated facilities (primarily electricity and steam purchases). We also 
include in our historical assessment of GHG emissions those Scope 3 emissions associated 
with transport of our finished products to our first point of customer contact (in the U.S. 
and Canada) and corporate business travel. We have quantified and tracked these elements 
of our Scope 3 inventory as part of our metrics and targets for several years, and we refer 
to them in this Report as targeted Scope 3 emissions.
In 2021, for purposes of our preparing our CDP Climate Change Response and  
establishing our science-based targets, we looked beyond our targeted Scope 3emissions 
and also analyzed the Scope 3 emissions resulting from operations in our supply chain 
that are not owned or controlled by us, as well as emissions from the use of our products.  
Data regarding this comprehensive Scope 3 emissions inventory was reported in our CDP 
Climate Change Response in 2021, a copy of which is available on our website. To improve 
our understanding of climate change impacts in our supply chain, we have increased the 
level of engagement with contract manufacturers. As we evaluate and strengthen our 
supply chain to minimize disruptions, we seek opportunities to shorten our supply chain 
and increases resilience, which may provide opportunities to reduce Scope 3 emissions by 
optimizing and minimizing total miles of material and product transportation.
The table on the following page provides the most recent three years of data for our Scope 
1 and 2 GHG emissions, plus the targeted Scope 3 emissions that we have incorporated into 
our GHG metrics and targets for many years. We have added the total Scope 3 emissions 
calculated across all 15 categories as defined in the GHG Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain 
Accounting Standard. These emissions were calculated in 2020-2021 based on supply  
chain activity for 2019, the most recent data available. We plan to update our  
Scope 3 emissions inventory periodically.
42
INTRODUCTION
Our absolute GHG emissions in 2021 (Scopes 1 + 2 and targeted 
Scope 3) decreased approximately 4% versus 2020. Global GHG 
emissions from manufacturing operations (Scope 1 + Scope 2) 
were down 2% in 2021 over 2020 with decreases in both Scope 
1 and Scope 2 emissions through various energy reduction 
programs and projects, primarily related to electricity use. 
Normalized total GHG emissions per weight of product shipped 
were reduced by 3% in 2021, falling short of our 10% reduction 
target due to erratic production at many of our manufacturing 
facilities that were impacted by COVID-19 pandemic and 
associated labor and supply chain issues. Our targeted Scope 
3 emissions were down nearly 6% in 2021 due primarily to 
decrease in total miles driven. In 2021, impact from new nodes 
in our distribution network was fully realized. Total truck miles 
were down 7% and average miles per shipment was down 
approximately 3% versus 2020, while total weight of product 
shipped was up 1% and weight per load was up 5%. As a result of 
this optimization, more product was delivered in fewer, shorter trips.
In 2021, through electric power RECs and certified carbon  
forestry credits, we were able to offset a total of 73% of our  
combined Scope 1, Scope 2 and targeted Scope 3 GHG emissions.
The following chart provides our absolute and normalized GHG 
emissions. The normalized results provide an indication of GHG 
emissions relative to production and shipping of products.GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG)*
2021 2020 2019
GHG Emissions- Scope 1 
(MT CO2e) 89,100 91,159 87,583
GHG Emissions- Scope 2 
(MT CO2e)68,678 69,393 74,853
GHG Emissions- Scope 1+ Scope 2 
(MT CO2e)157,778 160,553 162,436
GHG Emissions- Scope 3-North America 
Transportation Operations (MT CO2e)211,662 225,956 213,892
GHG Emissions – (Total Scope 1 + 2 + 3)  
(MT of CO2e)369,439 386,508 376,328
GHG Intensity (Scope 1 + Scope 2)
(MTs of CO2e /MM pounds of product 
shipped)26 26 29
GHG Intensity (Total by product shipped)
(MTs of CO2e /MM pounds of product 
shipped)62 63 67
GHG Intensity (Total by USD Sales)
(MTs of CO2e /MM USD Sales)71 79 86
*All GHG values have been updated to reflect GHG emission factors in GHG Protocol/IEA v15 (05/2021); Defra v9.0 (09/2020); and/or the most 
current country emission factors available in the applicable Sphera Cloud Corporate Sustainability platform library.  
As a result, 2019 and 2020 data differ from what was reported in our 2020 Sustainability Report.43
INTRODUCTION
28.8
26.3 26.3
0.05.010.015.020.025.030.035.0
2019 2020 2021Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG per product shipped
 [tonnes CO2e/MM lb shipped]66.763.461.5
0.010.020.030.040.050.060.070.080.0
2019 2020 2021Total GHG per product shipped
[tonnes CO2e/MM lb shipped]
44
INTRODUCTION
Our primary environmental strategic goal is for all global  
operations owned and controlled by us to be carbon neutral by 2025,  
by reducing and offsetting our carbon emissions through energy savings projects, renewable 
energy credits (RECs), purchase power agreements (PPAs) onsite solar projects and tree  
planting. Carbon emissions associated with electricity use are currently 100% offset by RECs,  
while our Scope 1 and targeted Scope 3 emissions are partially offset by certified forestry  
credits through the Arbor Day Foundation®. In 2021, our operational goal was to  
achieve zero increase in carbon emissions from manufacturing operations compared to 
2020 to minimize the offsets required.  Our actual operational carbon emission (Scope 
1 + Scope 2) in 2021 were down 2% versus 2020, and our absolute GHG emissions in 
2021 (Scopes 1 + 2 and targeted Scope 3) decreased approximately 4% versus 2020. 
In December 2021, we developed new science-based targets and submitted our  
application to the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), an organization promoting 
best practice in emissions reductions in line with climate science. This year, we will 
engage with SBTi to validate that our targets align with their latest criteria for  
maintaining global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius for Scope 1 + Scope 2 
emissions and well below 2 degrees Celsius for Scope 3.
Church & Dwight commits to reduce absolute Scope 1 +2 
GHG emissions 46% below 2020 levels by 2031
Church & Dwight pledges to use absolute Scope 3  
emissions below 2019 levels through influencing our 
supply chain partners*
Church & Dwight commits to continuing our  
pledge to use 100% Renewable electricity for  
operations under our control
*Our goal is for our suppliers that represent 75% of our Scope 3 emissions to establish their own science-based targets by 2026. These 
suppliers include providers of purchased goods and services, capital goods and upstream transportation and distribution45
INTRODUCTION
ENERGY USE  
Natural gas is our primary energy source (55% of total energy use in 
gigajoules (GJ) followed by electricity (approximately 36%) and purchased steam 
(approximately 8%). Remaining fuel sources including diesel, gasoline and propane 
represent <1% combined.
2021 was a particularly challenging year due to supply chain disruptions that 
impacted production efficiency. As a result, many of our plant operations 
experienced intermittent production interruptions, excessive changeovers to 
enable production of products based on material availability and similar impacts 
that impinged on many efficiency efforts, including energy efficiency. It was only 
through ongoing energy reduction efforts and projects that we were able to 
continue an overall energy reduction trend. As shown on the accompanying 
graphs, natural gas represents the largest energy source used for our operations. 
In 2021, electricity use was down 1.2%, purchased steam was down 2.5%, while 
natural gas use was down 3.7%. Implementation of several energy reduction 
projects has enabled us to minimize increases in our energy use. Some examples 
are highlighted on the following page.46
INTRODUCTION
Efforts to reduce energy usage, specifically natural gas, are a key element of our 
science-based target commitment to reduce GHG emissions. We will continue to 
evaluate opportunities to reduce energy use, and to convert onsite combustion 
processes to greener electricity, while continuing to grow our business. Our  
long-term commitment to science-based targets will be reflected in shifting to 
electricity as our primary energy source.  Electricity can be generated through low 
carbon processes. This shift to greener energy sources will be accompanied by  
continuing efforts to reduce our total overall energy use.
In 2021, our total energy use was approximately 1.53 million GJ, down 3% compared 
to 2020. Normalized energy use was 254 GJ per million pounds shipped, which  
represents a 4% reduction over 2020. While the normalized reductions were a  
positive achievement in 2021, we were unable to achieve our standing 10% reduction 
goal due to erratic production at many of our manufacturing facilities that were  
impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and associated labor and supply chain issues.
0.03%1%1%
8%
36% 55%Electricity
Diesel Fuel/Fuel Oil
Gasoline
PropaneNatural Gas
Steam2021 Energy Use Breakdown47
INTRODUCTION
1,649,2961,570,7711,527,008
0200,000400,000600,000800,0001,000,0001,200,0001,400,0001,600,0001,800,000
2019 2020 2021
257 254
050100150200250300350
2019 2020 2021Energy per product shipped [GJ/MM lb ]
29148
INTRODUCTION
SPARKFUND-IMPROVED LIGHTING  
AND HV AC PERFORMANCE
Since 2019, we partnered with Sparkfund to change the 
way we manage our building energy use. Six of our plants 
partnered with Sparkfund to install, maintain and manage 
new LED lighting systems.  This turn-key approach puts responsibility 
for maintenance and monitoring of the lighting system in Sparkfund’s hands, 
reduces capital necessary to re-lamp our sites, and provides the benefit of energy 
savings associated with the new LED lighting. Our Colonial Heights, Virginia plant 
completed implementation of Sparkfund management of their HVAC systems 
and our York, PA plant continued to expand their LED lighting program through 
Sparkfund. In 2021, Sparkfund lighting and HVAC projects reduced our electricity 
needs by an estimated 8 million KWH per year (equivalent to approximately 
2,800MT of CO2e). Since initiating the Sparkfund partnership in 2018 we estimate 
Sparkfund projects have reduced our electricity use by over 13 million KWH. 
ENERGY AUDITS
In 2021, Church & Dwight engaged in formal, energy audits of six of our largest 
energy consuming plants. These audits were conducted by a third-party engineering 
firm and focused on central energy systems such as natural gas, electricity, steam, 
and compressed air. These audits successfully identified many short-term and 
longer-term energy conservation measures as well as combustion reduction projects 
that will support our SBT implementation over the next several years. In 2022, 
we are performing similar audits in the remainder of our U.S. based locations. The 
audit program helps us identify and prioritize energy conservation measures and 
also helps drive our energy reduction and SBT goals further into the organization 
by directly engaging plant management and workers in examining, understanding, 
discussing, and communicating their energy consumption footprint and savings 
opportunities, strengthening our overall commitment to our energy reduction goals. 
49
INTRODUCTION
ADDITIONAL STEAM SYSTEM 
IMPROVEMENTS IN GREEN RIVER, WY
Building off steam system repairs and audits in 2020, our Green River, WY 
plant identified several additional steam system improvements including 
installing timers on steam pumps, installing new valves and increasing  
frequency of steam leak assessments. In all these projects saved an estimated 
2,800 tons of steam use (equivalent to approximately 500 MT CO2e).
COMPRESSED AIR SYSTEM 
INSPECTIONS
Maintenance in several of our plants focused on inspection and repair of 
compressed air systems, including replacement of some older, inefficient 
air compressors. These efforts contributed to an electricity KWH 
reduction of between 1% and 6% at the respective plants.
ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS 
DATA VERIFICATION 
For our 2021 energy and GHG data, as in previous years, we have 
contracted with an independent third party, ERM CVS, to evaluate and 
assure that our energy data collection process and emissions calculations 
are rigorous, inclusive and accurate. The resulting verification statement 
will be included with our annual CDP Climate Change Response.
50
INTRODUCTION
Since 2016, we’ve partnered with the Arbor Day Foundation® to offset 
carbon dioxide emissions. Through this partnership we’ve supported 
the planting and growing of millions of trees in the Mississippi River 
Valley and protection of existing forests in Canada and Peru. 
Our partnership offsets the carbon dioxide emissions generated from the use of fossil fuels 
(primarily natural gas) from our operations and other emissions, such as transportation 
emissions. In 2021, we continued our commitment to this partnership for verifiable 
emissions reduction credits with a multiyear $5 million investment. The Arbor Day 
Foundation® has become the largest nonprofit membership organization dedicated to 
planting millions of trees with more than one million members, supporters and partners.  
Church & Dwight has grown to be one of the Foundation’s most trusted forestry carbon partners, 
resulting in the reduction and removal of over 878,000MT of carbon from the atmosphere. 
Verified carbon credits offer the private sector a pathway to engage in the protection, 
improvement, and restoration of forest ecosystems and the local communities they support.
“Nature-based climate solutions not only mitigate the 
environmental impact of daily business operations but 
also protect the ecosystems and economies that people 
and wildlife alike rely upon. Verified carbon reduction and 
removal is a vital near-term step for companies hoping to 
become carbon-neutral.” 
Dan Lambe, Arbor Day Foundation President  
and Chief Executive51
INTRODUCTION
Crafted by the Arbor Day Foundation, our forestry 
carbon portfolio has expanded with the following  
high-quality global projects: 
• Protect  - Alto Mayo Protected Forest: The Alto Mayo project  
conserves 182,000 hectares (ha) of ecologically rich fauna and flora in 
the Peruvian Andean Amazon. By providing essential funding for forest 
management, and through a unique community-based conservation 
model involving over 1,000 families, the project is effectively stemming 
some of the highest rates of deforestation in Peru’s protected areas and 
has successfully avoided over 17,000 ha from being deforested.
•  Improve  – Darkwoods Forest Conservation: This project zones and 
monitors different areas of 63,000 ha of private Boreal forest in 
southeastern British Columbia and targets specific areas for: strict 
biodiversity protection by limiting/deactivating roads, infrastructure, 
and activity; public access; invasive species control, conservation 
research, and a low level of sustainable harvesting. The project 
leverages carbon finance to conserve critical ecosystems and carbon 
sequestration areas at an unprecedented scale. 
• Restore  - GreenTrees Reforestation Project: This work aims to reforest 
one million acres in the Mississippi River Alluvial Valley, one of the most 
important wetland ecoregions in North America. The project focuses on 
restoring degraded agricultural lands back to a highly beneficial, native 
forest ecosystem by helping landowners establish and grow trees on 
private lands that have been in continuous agricultural use for decades. 
Reforestation will aid the health of this vital watershed, restore habitat 
for threatened and endangered| wildlife, and support the economic 
livelihoods of over 550 farming families.
52
INTRODUCTION
The Church & Dwight Philanthropic Foundationdonated to 
 the Northeast Wilderness Trust to preserve wild land.  
This organization is focused on climate change and biodiversity collapse by preserving and 
connecting wildlife habitat and carbon sequestration corridors in the northeast United 
States; a region that has been identified as a critical region for global climate stabilization 
because of its carbon density and potential for additional carbon accumulation. The Trust’s 
primary efforts are around “rewilding” by giving space back to wildlife and retuning wildlife 
to the land. The process of rewilding restores ecosystems and the life-supporting functions 
they provide. These forever-wild places are allies in the fight to slow climate change, as they 
sequester and store carbon at a greater rate than timberlands. For more information about 
the Northeast Wilderness Trust, see: www.newildernesstrust.org
Since 1989, D&R Greenway Land Trust has been on a mission to preserve and care for 
land and inspire a conservation ethic. Its preserved farms and community gardens provide 
local organic food for its neighbors—including those most in need. Through strategic land 
conservation and stewardship, D&R Greenway combats climate change, helps to research 
carbon sequestration, protects birds and wildlife and ensures cleaner air and drinking water 
for future generations. In 2021, the Church & Dwight Employee Giving Fund donated to 
D&R Greenway to help it grow its stewardship team that builds and maintains trails and 
environmentally important preserves. For more information about the D&R Greenway Land 
Trust, see: www.drgreenway.org.
TREE PLANTING IN GUANGZHOU, CHINA  
For the third year in a row, our team in Guangzhou, China planted new trees in the city 
where they live and work.  They are able to watch the trees they planted in prior years get 
bigger and stronger.  It was a great opportunity to get together and help protect the planet.
OUR BRANDS53
OUR BRANDS
Delight Consumers with Our Brands & Contribute  
T oward a More Sustainable World
Integrate sustainability into our brands and marketing efforts.
 Utilize our brands to drive awareness and engagement 
around sustainability.
Our brands strive to provide our customers and consumers  
with high-quality, affordable products and to continuously  
deliver in the area of social and environmental responsibility.  
In 2021, our brand teams expanded the positive impact we 
have on our communities through their philanthropic efforts.
OUR BRANDS54
ARM & HAMMER Laundry Detergent Brand’s New Partnership 
with Dress for Success and Your Hour, Her Power® Campaign 
in the Midst of the First Global Female Recession  
Dress for Success is an international nonprofit organization dedicated to celebrating 
and helping women, many of whom are facing underemployment, chronic 
unemployment, or struggling with their economic situations. For these women, Dress 
for Success provides the resources to succeed during this unprecedented time. 
In 2021, the ARM & HAMMER Laundry Detergent brand team partnered with 
Dress for Success on the “Your Hour, Her Power” campaign to empower women 
and lighten their load. The campaign is inspired by the belief that when a woman 
has access to opportunities that can change her life for the better, she becomes 
powerful beyond measure. With the COVID-19 pandemic impacting women around 
the world at disproportionate rates, women now face the first female recession. 
Women are experiencing unprecedented layoffs while balancing business and 
school closures, home schooling, and tending to the daily needs of loved ones.  
The ARM & HAMMER Laundry Detergent brand donated $60,000 
to support the cause and encouraged people via social media to 
participate by donating the equivalent of one hour of pay to help 
women displaced by the pandemic ensure their economic stability.  
The money raised helped Dress for Success provide women access to programs 
that focus on job search support, financial literacy education, health and wellness, 
and entry to a professional network and safe community. 
“We are grateful for ARM & HAMMER Laundry’s support in helping us raise 
awareness and funds during this critical time.  Together, we are celebrating 
the qualities that women share including courage, strength, and resilience 
to help all women regain employment and economic health.”
Joi Gordon, CEO of Dress for Success
OUR BRANDS55
Our VITAFUSION brand celebrated the 5th year of its 
partnership with The Fruit Tree Planting foundation by 
planting in underserved communities across the U.S. and 
supporting their mission of providing delicious nutrition for all.  
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s State Indicator 
Report on Fruits and Vegetables (2018), only 12.2% of adults meet the 
recommended daily fruit intake with the driving factors being convenience and 
affordability.  At a time when health and wellness are top of mind, our VITAFUSION 
brand continues to strive towards its mission of providing delicious nutrition for all 
by planting fruit trees in communities across the U.S. who need it most.
In 2021, we: 
• Participated in a 2-day planting event in Los Angeles, CA with brand 
ambassador Tiffany Haddish.  This event featured a Satellite Media Tour 
that helped highlight the VITAFUSION brand’s commitment to delicious 
nutrition for all. At the event, Ms. Haddish planted a soursop tree in honor of 
the partnership and spoke to the impact that comes with giving back to your 
community. The team planted a total of 39 trees and distributed 30 trees to 
community members. 
• Planted 35 trees for Concrete Safaris, an organization centered on 
providing fruit trees to underserved communities in East Harlem, NY. 
This planting will provide nutritious, free, healthy produce for Jefferson House 
residents, a low-income housing association in East Harlem.
• Planted fruit trees in San Gabriel, CA and Bay Mills, MI. 
• Continued to plant internationally to support communities across the 
globe with plantings in Brazil and Peru.
OUR BRANDS56
The Fruit Tree Planting Foundation is an international 
nonprofit dedicated to planting edible fruit trees and plants 
to benefit the environment and its inhabitants. Since 2017, 
the VITAFUSION brand has held 313 tree planting and/or 
distribution events around the world through the Fruit Tree 
Project, with 74 events in the U.S. and 239 internationally. 
The VITAFUSION brand and the Fruit Tree Planting Foundation have helped 
increase the accessibility of fresh fruit by planting trees at public schools, 
Native American communities, city parks, community gardens, low-income 
neighborhoods and hurricane-stricken areas. 
“VITAFUSION is deeply rooted in 
health and wellness, making the 
Fruit Tree Planting Project our 
mission to provide communities 
with the nutrients they need.”  
 Michael Vercelletto, 
Marketing Director 
OUR BRANDS57
Our VITAFUSION brand Supported WhyHunger’s 36th Annual 
Hungerthon to Increase Accessibility of Nutritious Foods and Invest in 
Long-T erm Solutions to End Hunger by Building Healthy Communities. 
According to the USDA’s Food Security Status of U.S. Households, in 2020, 1 in 4 
households experienced food insecurity. At a time when health and wellness are 
top of mind, our VITAFUSION brand team continues their partnership with global 
nonprofit WhyHunger, dedicated to ending world hunger and advancing the human 
right to nutritious food.
Building off a successful 2020 partnership with WhyHunger, our VITAFUSION 
brand team continued its support by matching donations up to $100,000 in 2021 
to help reach WhyHunger’s Hungerthon goal of raising $1,000,000, which will be 
used to transform communities by providing healthy living opportunities and access 
to nutritional food. This donation directly impacted local food banks, food pantries, 
soup kitchens, and community farms, helping address disparity in food access and 
nutrition during the 2021 Thanksgiving holiday.
According to the USDA, 1 in 6 children is hungry in the U.S., and L’il Critters knows 
how important it is for children to receive the proper nutrition for their learning, 
development, and growth. For #NoHungerHolidays, the L’IL CRITTERS brand 
matched $50,000 in donations to supplement up to 600,000 meals which have 
helped many children and families have a healthy and happy holiday.
 “VITAFUSION is committed to taking fruitful steps towards a healthier, 
happier world. Through our partnership with WhyHunger, we look 
forward to supporting long-term solutions to end hunger while 
continuing to help people achieve and maintain a healthy lifestyle. 
Nutrition is a priority, and we recognize that malnutrition primarily 
stems from a lack of access.”  
Michael  Vercelletto, Marketing Director 
OUR BRANDS58
OUR FIRST RESPONSE BRAND EMPOWERED WOMEN’S  
MATERNAL HEALTH JOURNEYS WITH DIVERSE  
STORY-TELLING AND CAUSE AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS.
As the manufacturer and distributor of FIRST RESPONSE pregnancy test kits, we are committed 
to empowering women’s maternal health journeys through education and awareness through 
reputable cause marketing partnerships.
In 2021, we: 
• Supported National Infertility Awareness Week (NIAW) with the following partners:
• Pregnantish  “This is What Infertility Looks Like” campaign. The campaign showcased 
diverse storytelling and faces of infertility and was featured on Pregnantish social 
channels, in a syndicated Glamour article, as well as a segment on NBC New York. 
• RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association  in their United to RESOLVE virtual 
event for NIAW. 
• Continued our commitment to addressing maternal health inequities with ongoing support of:
•  Black Mama’s Matter Alliance (BMMA) 2021 Black Maternal Health Virtual Conference 
sponsorship at the ‘Change Maker’ level which was highlighted via social, in the BMMA 
newsletter, and throughout the conference. 
• Every Mother Count’s  virtual event for Mother’s Day, MAMAthon and end of year 
campaign for Giving Tuesday, pledging to match all donations made for each campaign. Our 
FIRST RESPONSE brand team helped increase donorship, visibility and further drove 
engagement and awareness of EMC’s mission via influencers, including Kelis Rogers, 
Rosanna Javier, and Sydney Leroux for Mother’s Day and Kyra Epps, Melanie Fiona, Ashlyn 
Harris, Cristal Allure, and Maddie Obray for Giving Tuesday.
OUR BRANDS59
OUR TROJAN BRAND PROTECTED  
COMMUNITIES WITH SEXUAL HEALTH  
PROGRAMS, EDUCATION, AND DONATIONS.  
As the manufacturer and distributor of TROJAN brand condoms, we 
are committed to complete sexual health through education, and 
increasing awareness among young adults in the U.S. about the risks 
of unprotected sex – notably unintended pregnancies and sexually 
transmitted diseases (STDs). 
In 2021, we: 
• Continued our partnership with youth sex-ed nonprofit, HiTOPS, by sponsoring its 
annual half-marathon race last November in Princeton, NJ. HiTOPS works to foster 
strong and healthy young people of all identities by providing inclusive sex education 
and LGBTQ+ support for young people throughout New Jersey. Trojan was the race’s 
“Finish-Line Sponsor,” donating and helping to raise thousands of dollars for the organi-
zation. Trojan and employees from across Church & Dwight volunteered to help on race 
day and hand out product from the TROJAN, ARM & HAMMER, OXICLEAN, VITAFU -
SION and BATISTE brands and more to participants and supporters.
OUR BRANDS60
• Converted a production line in our Colonial Heights, VA plant to produce 
latex gloves in response to the nationwide shortage of personal protective 
equipment caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Our team at Colonial 
Heights developed the process from start to finish, working cross-functionally 
across the company, and produced ~300,000 latex gloves. 16,000 gloves 
were donated in Q4’21, with the remainder set for donation in Q1’22.
• Worked with the Condom Collective – a youth-led grassroots movement 
to make the U.S. a sexually healthy nation – to donate more than one 
million condoms to student-run safe sites in a peer-to-peer program on 
college campuses. 
• Donated vibrators to health organizations across the country to further our 
mission of sexual health education and avoid destruction of excess inventory.
• Continued a tradition of donating more than one million condoms to 
health departments across the U.S. annually as a part of a long-standing 
partnership with the National Coalition of STD Directors. Together, we 
refocus attention, resources, and consumer education on condoms as 
a highly effective form of STD and unintended pregnancy prevention. 
Through this partnership, which is referenced on our condom boxes, we 
also continue to support the “Condom Connect” Initiatives.
OUR BRANDS61
TERRACYCLE® AND THE  
ARM & HAMMER BRAND CONTINUE  
POUCH RECYCLING PARTNERSHIP  
In 2021, we continued our partnership with TerraCycle® to provide innovative recycling 
solutions for ARM & HAMMER and OXICLEAN brand plastic pouches. Since its launch 
in 2018, the program has diverted 87.1 thousand baking soda and laundry pouches from 
landfills thanks to 10,600 recycling locations around the country. In 2021, we saw a 38% 
increase in sign-ups for new recycling locations from 2020.
An estimated 400 million toothpaste tubes end up in landfills across America every year. 
The ARM & HAMMER brand team has partnered with TerraCycle® to create a way for 
consumers to curb this issue. The program is similar to the recycling program we have 
for our ARM & HAMMER and OXICLEAN brand single dose detergent pouches, in that 
consumers can go to our website to download a shipping label to return their empty 
tubes to TerraCycle®, who will process them. We are excited about this partnership and 
will be calling out the recycling option on-pack during our upcoming packaging refresh. 
The OXICLEAN brand launched media campaigns focused on the 
sustainable behavior of preserving the clothes and things you love.  
In partnership with Treehugger and The Spruce Décor online platforms, we got the word 
out to consumers about simple ways to make the things you love last longer. Keeping 
clothes looking newer longer and saving stained furniture and clothing is what our  
OXICLEAN brand is all about. The content drove strong relevance, significantly  
increasing consideration intent among younger consumers. 
 
OUR BRANDS62
The ARM & HAMMER Pet Care brand is passionate about 
pet adoption. In 2021, the brand continued its mission in 
supporting overlooked shelter cats through its partnership 
with the ASPCA, and animal shelters across the nation, to 
raise awareness for pets needing loving homes. This included: 
• Dedicating a shining light on ‘purrfectly impurrfect cats,’ a campaign through our 
ARM & HAMMER Feline Generous platform which grew to include two annual 
tent-pole events. Through this platform, ARM & HAMMER Pet Care brand team 
is committed to donating a minimum of $50,000 annually to animal shelters.
• 1st annual partnership with the ASPCA in June in honor of National  
Adopt-a-Shelter-Cat Month to highlight senior cats, during our “Senior Tails 
Giveaway”. After receiving over 2,500 submissions, three winning shelters 
received $2,500 each. 
• In honor of National Cat Day on October 29, the brand launched its “Unsung 
Heroes” Giveaway to recognize the committed staff and volunteers at cat 
welfare organizations who go above and beyond to help purrfectly impur -
rfect shelter cats by meeting their physical, emotional, and medical needs. 
After receiving over 4,500 entries, three winning shelters were awarded a 
total of $30,000, and Kris Kaiser was named our AdvoCAT of the Year for her 
work as a foster for special needs cats at Bitty Kitty Brigade in Minnesota.
• Continuing our tradition of donating litter to shelters around the country 
through our plant network, providing over 1,000,000 pounds in 2021.
 
OUR BRANDS63
THE ARM & HAMMER BRAND TEAM 
SPONSORED STEM COMPETITION 
ODYSSEY OF THE MIND™ 
In 2021, we continued our partnership with Odyssey of the 
Mind™, an international STEM competition where students in 
kindergarten through college work together to solve creative 
problems at the regional, state, and world level.  
For over 170 years, the ARM & HAMMER brand has been committed to encouraging 
inventive problem-solving from the kitchen to the outdoors, to the classroom,  
empowering millions of consumers to dream up countless versatile uses for the product. 
In 2021, our continued support of Odyssey of the Mind and STEM education included: 
• Sponsoring a problem where teams will use ARM & HAMMER baking soda 
as a key element in their solution and performance. 
• Providing $100,000 in sponsorship grants to help more student teams 
participate in the program. 
• Providing an augmented reality “Hammer Force” mobile game that teaches 
students about the power of baking soda in practical scientific applications. 
• Sharing virtual content at Odyssey of the Mind™ World Finals in May 2021 to 
provide edutainment to the thousands of teams and families in attendance. 
This partnership will help us to advance our mission of championing innovative 
thinking and we are excited to see the creative solutions these powerful young 
minds come up with as we continue our support in 2022!
 
OUR BRANDS64
OUR SPECIALTY HAIR CARE BRANDS 
PARTNERED WITH CONSCIOUS BEAUTY 
AT ULTA BEAUTY™  
Conscious Beauty at Ulta Beauty™ empowers consumers withtransparency and choice 
to be able to identify clean, cruelty free, vegan, and sustainably-packaged brands 
and products. It also highlights brands that positively impact our communities and planet. 
In addition, to observe International Women’s Day, the BATISTE brand team 
sponsored the “See Her, Hear Her”  one-hour special with iHeart Radio, 
celebrating the lives of women in music, including Gwen Stefani and Cardi B. 
With this, the BATISTE brand team donated $100,000 to Vital Voices, a nonprofit 
focused on extending the voices of women changemakers.The Specialty Hair Care brands met the qualifications 
for the pillars below:
BATISTE® - Sustainable Packaging 
VIVISCAL® - Clean Ingredients 
TOPPIK® - Clean Ingredient 
NAIR® - Clean Ingredients
PRODUCTS65
PRODUCTS
Provide Safe & Effective  
Products for Consumers &  
the Environment 
Develop effective products that are safe for our consumers, 
the animals they care for and the environment worldwide
Provide informed choices to consumers across the globe 
through ingredient transparency 
PRODUCTS66
Develop effective products that are safe  
for our consumers, the animals they care  
for and the environment  
Our Global Research & Development (R&D) organization employs 400 
scientists worldwide including: Product development chemists, experts 
in toxicology, and professionals in consumer relations, sustainability, and 
regulatory and quality compliance. We also have a strong external network of 
toxicology and technical experts to provide insight and guidance on specific areas 
of ingredient or product assessment. 
Consumer insight and engagement is key to our product development process to  
ensure we meet consumer needs and expectations for ingredients, product performance, 
quality, safety and the environment.  The feedback we receive from our consumers and  
retailers are communicated to Product Development for future innovations.  
Product Development T eam
New Ingredients and products
Consumer & Retailer InputNew  
InnovationPost-Market 
Experience
Consumer & Retailer FeedbackPRODUCTS67
Our safety assurance process is global 
and science-based
Our R&D team follows a rigorous and science-based 4-step 
evaluation process that is well above and beyond regulatory 
compliance:  
Step 1. Safe and Sustainable Ingredient Selection  
As the first step, our Product Development team reviews our company’s 
“Chemicals of Concern” list to ensure none of the ingredients on this banned 
list of chemicals are used in any formulations. We use all possible sources 
to evaluate the safety of each ingredient that goes into our products for any 
potential acute and chronic human, animal and environmental hazards and 
strive to select safer chemicals while considering each group. Based on a 
comprehensive exposure assessment, the toxicologist can establish a range of 
concentration that the ingredient can be safely used in the product. If safety 
cannot be confirmed, the ingredient is not allowed in the product and we 
explore alternative ingredients(s).
Step 2. Finished Product Evaluation 
Our global mission is to ensure safety of our products worldwide under 
expected use and reasonably foreseeable misuse conditions. If there are 
any data gaps, a safety program consistent with our company commitment 
to animal-alternative research is developed to address and resolve the data 
gaps. Based on our safety assessment, we provide proper use instructions and 
ingredient and safety related statements on package label and product website.  
Product Development and Quality Compliance teams ensure that the 
finished product (and ingredients) meet all specifications such as formulation 
verification, stability, shelf life, and preservative efficacy.1. Ingredient Selection 
Evaluate the efficacy and safety of each 
ingredient.
• Check company “Chemical of Concern”  
list to ensure the ingredient is not banned
• Data collection and review (acute and 
chronic toxicity, aquatic toxicity, 
biodegradation, bioaccumulation 
• Exposure Assessment to ingredient in the 
product 
• Risk Assessment - Should we use the  
ingredient?
2. Finished Product Evaluation 
Ensure safety use of our products under 
normal use and reasonably foreseeable 
misuse conditions.
• Health exposure and sa fety testing 
program 
• Consumer/customer messaging
• Quailty Assurance
4. Post-market Surveillance 
Proactively listen to our consumers and 
customers.
• Health exposure and safety testing 
program 
• Consumer/customer messaging
• Quailty Assurance3. Re-market Clearance 
Check the facts and document our  
science-based R&D product dossier
• Safety 
• Quality
• Sustainabilty• Performance 
• RegulatoryPRODUCTS68
Step 3. Pre-market Clearance 
Prior to manufacture and prior to shipment release of every product, the R&D product 
pre-market dossier is carefully reviewed by our Quality Department to ensure the 
ingredients and products meet our corporate, industry and regulatory standards.
Step 4. Post-market Surveillance and Evaluation 
Our Consumer Relations team ensures the voice of our consumers and customers is 
heard at all stages of product life cycle. Adapting quickly to emerging trends, external 
feedback is analyzed and communicated to the R&D organization to ensure the safety, 
performance and quality expectations are met. We review feedback from consumers 
and retailers, which is vital to new product development.  Currently, a new internal 
vigilance team is streamlining how we meet regulatory compliance, while ensuring 
global feedback is heard by the business. We have also established a partnership with 
an independent leader in product vigilance to further advance our capabilities. 
 
PRODUCTS69
Continued monitoring and removal of 
Chemicals of Concern from formulated 
products worldwide  
Our R&D Chemicals of Concern Committee has developed a master list of 
Chemicals of Concern for humans, pets and the environment. This list is derived 
from global regulations, scientific literature and customer/retailer guidelines 
such as California’s Proposition 65, IARC, National Toxicology Program, FDA, 
REACH SVHC list, UN Endocrine Disruptors, IFRA, and Retailer RSLs.
Our goal was to remove 100% of Chemicals of Concern from formulated products.  
By the end of 2021 we removed more than 99% of the Chemicals of Concern, 
except where regulatory hurdles prevented us from achieving 100%. Given this 
progress, we are now focused on our new goal which continues to elevate our 
commitment to safe products via monitoring and improvements. Today, none of the 
chemicals on our master list will be used in any of our formulations. The Committee 
regularly reviews current and emerging issues to determine if a chemical(s) 
should be added to our master list.  We have removed parabens from majority of 
our products and we expect to remove them from the remaining few regulated 
products in the near future. Anti-microbials on the Chemicals of Concern list were 
removed from FEMFRESH®, TOPPIK, VIVISCAL and CURASH® shampoos. 
We design all fragrance mixtures to comply with the safety standards set by the 
International Fragrance Association, and all flavor mixtures to those of the Flavor 
and Extract Manufacturers Association and our Chemicals of Concern process, 
in addition to the regulatory requirements worldwide. We specially manufacture 
mild hypoallergenic fragrance oils for our scented sensitive skin products. We have 
moved away from using phthalates in our fragrance oils and finished products. Lilial 
has been fully removed from fragrance oils in the European cosmetic products 
and we are in the process of removing it from the cosmetic products in other 
geographies.  Lyral has been removed from over 90% of our fragrance oils and we 
are in the process of removing it from the remaining fragrances globally. 
PRODUCTS70
Our commitment to  
animal-alternative research   
It is our corporate policy that we do not conduct, nor do we request that 
our raw material suppliers conduct, any animal studies unless absolutely 
required to comply with law or regulations.  Our animal-alternative 
methods of safety and efficacy evaluation include: publicly available 
toxicology and clinical safety data, computer (in silico) and human-
simulated modeling, and in vitro and clinical testing.  While many in vitro 
methodologies are validated for single ingredients, they are not fully 
validated for ingredient mixtures such as finished products. Therefore, 
we continue to invest in in vitro testing validation and actively participate 
in collaborations with industry, regulatory agencies, and special interest 
groups to validate in vitro testing for chemical mixtures. We also 
participate in the Consumer Health Care Products Association (CHPA) 
task force to seek FDA’s acceptance of alternatives on fluoride uptake for 
toothpaste.  For more information about our animal testing policy, 
please see:  https:/ /churchdwight.com/our-brands/animal-
testing-policy.aspx.
Ingredient Disclosure  
All ingredients found in our products worldwide are disclosed on-line or  
on-pack. We devote significant attention and care to transparently disclosing 
ingredient and safety information for our products. Safety Data Sheets for 
our products are available on our website. We disclose ingredients in all our 
products in accordance with the relevant federal regulations.
PRODUCTS71
Global standardization of our products 
while adapting to local product needs
Our R&D organization has adopted a “One R&D - Think and Act Global” approach 
while adapting to local needs. We strive to develop a single formula to meet the 
needs of consumers worldwide, thereby simplifying and improving our agility to 
changing needs. We also offer variation(s) of a global formula based on the local 
consumer preferences, socioeconomics, manufacturing and distributions.  
We have mastered consumer safety worldwide, and we continue to further 
advance our environmental risk assessment of ingredients and products as 
consumer and regulatory requirements evolve. 
Sustainability & Innovation 
We have placed sustainability at the center of product innovation as we 
recognize it is an integral part of the consumer journey and a winning consumer 
experience.  We are continually developing new sustainability focused tools and 
flexible processes to further enable and encourage our scientists to incorporate 
sustainability at all stages of the innovation and development process.  
PRODUCTS72
Highlights of 2021 Accomplishments
• Laundry Detergents Water Reduction and Energy Efficiency.  
Our new concentrated liquid laundry detergent formulas provide 10% more 
stain fighters per drop of laundry detergent. The new concentrated formulas 
will deliver the same great performance that consumers have grown to love and 
expect from the  ARM & HAMMER brand while allowing them to use less 
product and wash in cold water. This will ultimately reduce the amount of water 
per dose of laundry detergent product by 11% translating to approximately 
28,000 tons of water saved annually.
• EPA’s Safer Choice 2021 Partner Award Winner.  The Environmental  
Protection Agency (EPA) recognized Church & Dwight Co., Inc. for our continued  
efforts in creating safer cleaning products as a Safer Choice 2021 Formulator-  
Product Manufacturer Partner of the Year. From removing phosphates in all  
detergents to using recycled materials for packaging, sustainability and the 
well-being of consumers is at the heart of ARM & HAMMER business and product 
development. The ARM & HAMMER brand also worked in tandem with the EPA 
to develop and implement an in vitro testing strategy to meet the Safer Choice pH 
criteria for laundry detergent. Building on this, we continue to pursue new potential 
opportunities for partnership with the EPA’s Safer Choice program. https:/ /www.
epa.gov/saferchoice/2021-safer-choice-partner-year-award-winners-profiles#tab-8     
• ARM & HAMMER Sensitive Skin Free & Clear Liquid Detergent  
Certified 100% by SkinSAFE™.   Our Gentle-on-Skin Formula excludes 100% 
of SkinSAFE’s Topmost Considered Skin Allergens  The data-driven SkinSAFE 
platform developed in collaboration with the Mayo Clinic uses clinical ingredient 
data to help people with sensitive skin find products that meet their sensitive 
skin needs and avoid products that don’t.  Our Free & Clear Liquid Detergent 
is free from perfumes, dyes and preservatives. It is dermatologist tested and 
designed to work in both standard machines and today’s energy conscious high 
efficiency (HE) models.  The new SkinSAFE rating has been included across 
ARM & HAMMER Sensitive Free & Clear marketing efforts in 2021 - inclusive 
of updated packaging, digital banners, PR, and more. 
     *certified by SkinSAFE to exclude 100% of their topmost consider skin allergens. 
   SkinSAFEproducts.com 
†PRODUCTS73
• Continued safety assurance of our laundry detergent unit dose pods.  
In addition to a pictogram and comprehensive warning statements to increase 
consumer alertness to keep the pods out of the reach of children, we are 
continuing our collaboration with the American Chemical Institute task force and 
American Society for Testing and Materials committee to monitor health effects 
incidents and to ensure continued safe use of the pods.  
• VITAFUSION AND L’IL CRITTERS GUMMY Vitamins.  We source great 
flavors in nature and do not use synthetic FD&C colors.  Our gummy vitamins are 
gluten free and do not contain high fructose corn syrup.  For our Apple Cider  
Vinegar gummy,  the apple cider vinegar is produced in the U.S. and domestic 
apples are used in the apple juice concentrate.
• ORAJEL Fluoride Anti-Cavity T oothpastes and Fluoride-Free Training 
T oothpastes. The product has been reformulated to replace synthetic 
ingredients with naturally-sourced ingredients. The Fluoride Toothpaste contains 
over 99% naturally sourced ingredients and the Training Toothpaste contains 100% 
naturally sourced ingredients. The formulas use great tasting natural flavors and 
do not contain artificial colors, dyes, sweeteners, or preservatives. They are free of 
sodium lauryl sulfate, parabens, gluten, dairy, sugar, alcohol, silicones, and sulfates. 
PRODUCTS74
• FEMFRESH Wipes in Europe.  We moved to 99% natural origin ingredients 
while gaining “Vegan Society” accreditation which means no ingredients from 
animal origin/derivatives. The new FEMFRESH foam product line is 97% 
Natural origin, dye-free and vegan certified
• WATERPIK.  In 2021, the WATERPIK brand continued the expansion of the 
high efficiency, EPA WaterSense certified showerhead product portfolio. These 
showerheads are engineered from the ground up to maximize performance 
while reducing flow rates by up to 28%. Over 90% of WATERPIK showerheads 
shipped in the U.S. in 2021 were WaterSense certified.
• Consumer Education on benefits of Vitamin D.  We have partnered with 
the Council for Responsible Nutrition Foundation to establish “Vitamin D and 
Me” website https:/ /www.vitamindandme.org/ which is intended to educate 
consumers on fact-based benefits of Vitamin D and its role in immunity and 
make current robust clinical research on potential benefits of Vitamin D in 
association with Covid-19 accessible to the consumers.
• Veterinary advisory council for ARM & HAMMER cat litter products.  
We take special care supporting the safety of the animals our consumer care 
for. We have established and regularly meet with our cat expert advisory council 
comprised of both academic & practicing expert veterinarians and certified cat 
behaviorists.  The advisory council critically reviews and provides feedback on 
our product performance and safety evaluation strategies to ensure we meet high 
quality standard for our consumers and their cats.
• Specialty Products.  Our Animal and Food Production business serves a vitally 
important purpose—to feed people. Agriculture survives because it NEEDS to 
be sustainable. With our food safety antimicrobial technologies, we are helping 
customers supply a wholesome and safe food supply to meet the demands of 
a growing population. Our natural feed ingredients for livestock and poultry, 
such as prebiotics and probiotics, are used by protein producers as alternatives 
to antibiotics. We will continue to focus on these global initiatives by doing our 
part in production and processing by providing products that allow our  
customers to meet their own sustainability goals.
PACKAGING75
PACKAGING
Utilize Consumer-Friendly and Environmentally Responsible Packaging 
Ensure greater than 95% of global product packaging is recyclable by the end of 2025. 
Ensure all non-pharma product packaging is free from PVC,  
including timely elimination from newly acquired products. 
Increase Post-Consumer Recycled (PCR) plastic to a minimum of 25%  
average across all global plastic packaging by end of 2025. 
Source all paper and board packaging from recycled material and/or sustainably 
managed forests ensuring compliance for all future product acquisitions.
We are committed to developing and producing consumer friendly  
and environmentally responsible packaging across all our global brands.  
We continuously evaluate plastic component reduction and elimination from our  
packaging wherever it is practical, including seeking non-plastic alternatives and  
reducing plastic weight where possible, increasing plastic recyclability and circularity 
through plastic component simplification and consumer education and by increasing the 
amount of PCR plastic in our packaging.  These include opportunities to reduce 
our virgin plastic packaging footprint through increased use of PCR plastic, 
light-weighting, product formula concentration, durable/refillable  
packaging and plastic material substitution.PACKAGING76
PLASTIC PACKAGING STRATEGY 
Aligned with our overall Sustainability objectives, and in recognition of the global 
challenges around the use of plastic in packaging, we continue to pursue our Plastic 
Packaging Strategy. We want to ensure that our plastic packaging has minimal 
impact on the environment, and we hope to achieve that with three key focus areas:
1. Plastic should be eliminated or reduced from our packaging wherever it is practical.  
This means seeking non-plastic alternatives from across our supplier base. 
Plastic should also be reduced in weight where it is not deemed necessary for 
product protection and containment.
2. Plastic recyclability should be increased through a combination of plastic 
component simplification and consumer education.   During development, we 
will seek solutions to make plastic packaging free from contaminants that 
prevent recyclability.  This can include moving from multiple plastic materials, 
which cannot be separated, to a mono material structure, or removing metal 
from plastic packaging.
3. Plastic sustainability should be grown through increased circularity.   We continue 
to increase the amount of PCR plastic across our packaging and will 
increasingly look to source plastic from sources that actively reduce pollution 
from our Earth’s oceans.
PACKAGING77
PACKAGING RECYCLABILITY  
We have improved overall recyclability across our broad portfolio of  
products, with global recyclability increasing from 71% to 84% since 2018.  
This equates to 60 million lbs. of recyclable material recovered from the packaging waste 
stream every year. As an activator member of the US and UK Plastics Pacts, we collaborate to 
improve the recyclability of our portfolio and to eliminate problematic and unnecessary plastics, 
driving action toward a circular economy. Our work with the Association of Plastic Recyclers 
and The Recycling Partnership helps us design our packaging to deliver recycle-friendly 
packages, incorporating and producing high quality post-consumer recycled content.
Consumer Education on Package Recycling  
During 2021 we continued the use of How2Recycle labels through our partnership with the 
Sustainable Packaging Coalition.  We increased adoption to more than 2,000 How2Recycle® 
labels on our North American packages since joining.   WATERPIK® now has the majority of their 
product packaging updated to include How2Recycle labels. How2Recycle labeling will remain 
a priority for us in all future acquisitions. In addition, we have joined and adopted the On Pack 
Recycle Label for all products sold in the UK, and our packaging in France will carry the Triman 
recycle symbols to aid consumers in 2022. These programs are highly beneficial to the recycling 
industry by informing consumers what should and should not be recycled through clean and 
simple communication, helping to drive the circular economy. 
Highlights of 2021 Accomplishments
• Cleaner Bottles  - Driving towards our goal to be 95% recyclable by 2025, spray cleaner bottles 
were identified as a unique and necessary challenge to redesign for recyclability. Removal of the 
color pigment in the polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle is our first phase of transition, and 
development work was completed in 2021, with implementation set early 2022. Our program of 
replacing polyethylene terephthalate glycol (PETG) shrinksleeves with cPET sleeves drives us 
closer to a recyclable container and away from problematic materials for the recycle stream.
PACKAGING78
• Tubes – In 2021, we launched our first recyclable tube to help support our 
recycling initiatives in the Oral Care space. The launch of ARM & HAMMER 
100% Natural Baking Soda toothpaste was the UK’s first that is recyclable for 
the carton, tube and cap.  Continuing that success, our 2022 program for the 
U.S. toothpaste and ORAJEL brands will be to develop recycle ready package 
conversions in the tube packaging format. To encourage widespread adoption, 
we have worked closely with suppliers and competitors across the industry to 
bring tube packaging to recyclable status across North America. 
PLASTIC AND PVC REDUCTION 
We continuously look for opportunities to reduce or eliminate plastic from our 
packaging. We have a specific goal to ensure all non-pharma product packaging is 
free from PVC. In support of that goal, we no longer use PVC for any of our  
fully-integrated (non-pharma) packaging, and we are committed to eliminating 
it from our newly acquired brands. The WATERPIK business over a period of 2 
years successfully transitioned to PET, achieving 100% PVC free packaging in 
2021. We intend to address the use of PVC in our FLAWLESS products in 2022.
Highlights of 2021 Accomplishments
• Baking Soda - In 2021, we relaunched our ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda in 
a refillable shaker to the market. The new shaker has a dual flap cap for added 
functionality, eliminates three lid labels and the container lid is now removable 
for refill and re-use by the consumer.
PACKAGING79
INCREASED USE OF PCR 
In addition, we have a goal to increase Post-Consumer 
Recycled (PCR) plastic to a minimum of 25% average across 
all global plastic packaging by end of 2025.  
By the end of 2021, we achieved approximately 18.4% against that goal.
Highlights of 2021 Accomplishments
• Laundry Fabric Care  - Our plastics usage in laundry is a major focus towards 
our 2025 goals, as we continue to increase our qualification of PCR addition 
across our packaging, navigating the challenges of recycled material supply 
availability while maintaining consumer performance. In addition, we are  
working with our core vendors to include higher levels of recycled plastic 
content. Our liquid laundry today is accountable for 26.5 million lbs. of recycled 
material back into our laundry bottles. Our Scent Booster product packaging 
provides us with more opportunity to add PCR, proven at 25% and ready to  
implement at 50% inclusion. Programs are active on transitioning sleeving  
material compatibility with our HDPE containers, to improve material recovery 
in the recycling system, without the need for consumers to remove the labels. 
These materials are fully certified from the Association of Plastic Recyclers.
PACKAGING80
PAPERBOARD SOURCING 
Our goal is to source all paper and board packaging from recycled material 
and/or sustainably managed forests ensuring compliance for all future product 
acquisitions, and in 2021, we achieved 99.8% certified sustainable board against 
that target. Compliance standards are in place with paperboard suppliers to 
ensure that the corrugated and carton board we use in our packaging is derived 
from 100% recycled board materials or sustainably sourced forests and is handled 
through the supply chain in a responsible manner. We will continue to partner 
with and challenge our paperboard suppliers to meet this lofty goal. All new supplier 
partners are directed to meet compliance with our certified paperboard goals.
In 2021, our WATERPIK showerhead business completed a 
transition to more sustainable packaging materials across the 
entire product portfolio. By investing in a move from PVC to 
PETE plastic packaging components, we now have a package 
that is readily recyclable for the end consumer.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES81
EMPLOYEES & COMMUNITIES
Embrace the Principles of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
(“DEI”), Good Corporate Citizenship & Social  
Responsibility Within the Communities We Can Impact
Enhance our Corporate Social Responsibility program to 
expand goals, programs and commitments around diversity and 
inclusion, gender equality and health and well-being.
Endeavor to have candidate slates and interview panels for  
campus and experienced hires at corporate locations each consist 
of at least one candidate who is female and at least one candidate 
who is from an underrepresented racial and ethnic group.
Expand community enhancing, philanthropic programs and  
initiatives at our global operating sites.
We are focused on contributing towards a better, more sustainable 
world, by supporting our employees and our community.EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES82
AT CHURCH & DWIGHT, WE  
HAVE A COLLECTIVE ENERGY  
AND AMBITION.  
It’s a place where you can make a real difference and we owe it all to our 
employees. Together, we’ve spent the past century building iconic brands and 
providing affordable, quality consumer products for everyday life. Consistent with 
our environmental heritage, from the earliest design stages of our products to the 
end of consumer use, employees across all functions support the sustainability 
priorities summarized in this Report.
With a storied history of success and bold ambitions in sustainability, we look to 
our current and future employees to help shape our future. We work together to 
share ideas and contribute to collective goals. We share a passion to work hard, 
innovate and push boundaries. We may be considered a small company, but we 
use our size to our advantage. Employees get unrivalled exposure, career growth and 
opportunity, all with the backing of stable and supportive cross functional teams.
Ours is a culture where relationships matter. We are grounded in a shared sense 
of purpose that guides major decisions about the business and our people. We 
believe that we all have something to contribute, and something to gain from 
working together. We have invested in multiple enhancements to our digital and 
physical workplaces to allow our employees the best environment to collaborate 
and to apply themselves in the most productive way.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES83
DIVERSITY, EQUITY  
AND INCLUSION  
We embrace the diversity of our employees and believe that a diverse 
workforce fosters innovation and cultivates an environment filled with unique 
perspectives. As a result, our DEI efforts aspire to help us achieve a more 
diverse workforce. We strive to cultivate a culture and vision that supports and 
enhances our ability to recruit, develop and retain diverse talent at every level. 
While we are encouraged to see progress in overall female-(+0.2% vs 2020 
and +0.3% vs 2019), female management (+0.2% vs 2020 and +0.6% vs 2019), 
female senior management (+4.7% vs 2020 and +5.3% vs 2019) overall U.S. 
minority (+1.4% vs 2020 and +3.4% vs 2019), U.S. minority management (+1.3% 
vs 2020 and 2019) and U.S. minority senior management representation (+0.5% 
vs 2020 and + 1.4% vs 2019) we recognize we have more work to do in our 
aspiration to have a diverse workforce reflective of our consumer base.
59.4%40.6%
59.2%40.8%
Male Femal e Male Femal e2020 2021
Gender2020 2021
6.7%
23.3%48.8%6.8%
21.4%
22.8%48.9%
AGE
36-54 36-54 26-35 26-35 55 & older 55 & older 25 & under 25 & underAge
22.2%26.1%41.9%40.6%
20.0%30.8%42.1%40.8%
Total
Management
Senior Management
ExecutiveTotal
Management
Senior Management
ExecutiveFemales
12/31/2020 12/31/202121.1%EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES84
We are also committed to increasing transparency and disclosure. For the first time, we are 
publicly disclosing consolidated data from our most recent Employer Information Report 
(EEO-1) submitted to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The EEO-1 Report 
is a compliance survey mandated by U.S. federal statute and regulations.  Please note 
that these prescribed categories are different from how we organize our workforce and 
our jobs, how we apply our inclusion and diversity objectives and initiatives and how we 
organize our workforce to meet the specific needs of our business. Also, our inclusion 
and diversity initiatives are global, while the EEO-1 is solely U.S.-focused.
Our EEO-1 Report for 2021 is not available as of the publication of this Report, but the 
consolidated Employment Data forming a part of our EEO-1 Report for 2020 is included 
on page 138 of this Report. Our 2021 consolidated Employment Data for 2021 will be 
posted on our website at www.churchdwight.com when it becomes available.
We have made a clear commitment to long term support of 
building an inclusive environment through our following  
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion statement: 
We win when we respect every employee for who they are – regardless of gender, 
age, race, ethnicity, religion, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation or any other 
differences. We believe that our employees’ contributions are richer because of their 
diversity. We aim to be a diverse, inclusive and equitable company and are determined 
to build a culture where people have the power to win together. 
11.1%13.5%22.4%33.5%
11.1%13.0%21.1%32.1%
Total
Management
Senior Management
ExecutiveTotal
Management
Senior Management
ExecutiveU.S. Minorities
12/31/2020 12/31/2021
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES85
In 2021, our DEI initiative continued to progress in supporting an inclusive 
environment at our facilities while exploring our diversity representation 
and talent policies for actionable goals and opportunities. This has been an 
initiative supported both globally and across our varied sites.
Our DEI strategy includes four areas of focus. 
• Talent Acquisition: We aim to attract and select a diverse workforce that is 
representative of the markets we serve. 
• Conscious Inclusion: We aim to create an environment where everyone 
feels free to bring their authentic self to work every day.
• Community Outreach: We are committed to advancing DEI in the communities 
we serve by engaging with our community partnerships and philanthropy. 
• How We Run the Business: We are committed to fostering a diverse and 
inclusive mindset in our business practices and partnerships with 
customers, vendors and suppliers. 
In addition to our four areas of strategic focus we make a commitment 
to seek advice and engage our hourly employees through our Inclusion 
Contributors pillar of the D&I Council.
We continue to work to achieve representation in our company that reflects 
available talent across all underrepresented groups especially in leadership 
and technical positions. To that end, we made powerful commitments for 
2021 and adopted new, inclusive hiring practices and programs to support 
historically underrepresented team members in their advancement at all 
levels of our company. For example, in furtherance of the Board of Directors’ 
commitment to building a diverse and well-rounded Board comprised of 
individuals from different backgrounds and with a range of experiences 
and viewpoints, the Governance, Nominating & Corporate Responsibility 
Committee will continue to require that search firms it engages include a 
robust selection of women and racially/ethnically diverse candidates in all 
prospective director candidate pools.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES86
Our senior leaders in the organization engaged in robust training on 
leading inclusion. The training addressed inclusive leadership concepts 
and approaches we can use as we execute against our DEI strategy. 
Following the training, each senior leader participated in a detailed 
functional analysis of their diversity metrics and inclusion practices. 
People leaders at Church & Dwight host quarterly “Courageous 
Conversations” focused on dedicated conversation on each dimension 
of diversity with their teams. In 2021, conversations highlighted 
Diverse Abilities, LGBTQIA+, Generations, Veteran, and Immigrant 
experiences building upon our 2020 discussion on Race, Ethnicity and 
Gender. Employees have appreciated the dialogue, and the most recent 
engagement survey results support that overall employees responded 
favorably to the areas of diversity, inclusion and belonging.
We endeavor to have candidate slates and interview panels for campus 
and experienced hires at corporate locations each consist of at least 
one candidate who is female and at least one candidate who is from an 
underrepresented racial and ethnic group. Additionally, we encourage 
the slate of candidates and interview panels to encompass a wide array 
of diverse backgrounds including but not limited to diversity of gender, 
Military experience, LGBTQIA+ and individuals with disabilities. To reach 
a more diverse candidate pool, we developed partnerships with local 
historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs). During our U.S. 
campus season, we also have conducted outreach to D&I student groups 
and clubs at our undergraduate and MBA schools. We are striving to 
increase our company brand awareness with a wider demographic of 
students, and to educate them on the variety of opportunities available at 
both the undergraduate and MBA-levels at Church & Dwight.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES87
Our Board of Directors also recognizes that “tone is set at the top” and 
the processes applicable to determining the composition of the Board 
and senior management will have significant impact on attracting and 
retaining individuals throughout our operations. In 2021, the Board 
renewed its commitment to having a diverse board and is committed to 
using refreshment opportunities to strengthen the Board’s diversity. To 
accomplish this, the Governance, Nominating & Corporate Responsibility 
Committee will continue to require that the search firms we engage include 
a robust selection of women and racially/ethnically diverse candidates 
for serious consideration in all prospective director candidate pools.  
In addition, the Governance, Nominating & Corporate Responsibility 
Committee is committed to considering the candidacy of women and 
racially/ethnically diverse candidates for all future vacancies on the Board. 
The Board has also modified its age and tenure restrictions to increase 
refreshment of the Board and opportunities to add new and diverse 
Board members. The new guidelines require that existing Board members 
retire on the earlier of reaching age 72, or twenty years on the Board and 
new Board members retire on the earlier of reaching age 72 or fifteen 
years on the Board. The Board also believes that tenure diversity should 
be considered in order to achieve an appropriate balance between the 
detailed Company-knowledge and wisdom that comes with many years of 
service, and the fresh perspective of newer Board members.  
We believe that our current Board has an appropriate balance of 
experienced and newer directors, with tenure of the current directors 
averaging 10 years. The Governance, Nominating & Corporate 
Responsibility Committee balances all of the above considerations when 
assessing the composition of our Board of Directors. 
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES88
In 2019 we established our U.S.-based Supplier Diversity Program that is designed 
to drive spend growth with certified diverse suppliers by ensuring their inclusion in 
our Procurement-led sourcing process. Diverse supplier expenditure increased in 
2021, and we continue to expand our Supplier Diversity with the Women’s Business 
Enterprise and National Council, National Minority Supplier Development Council 
and National LGBT Chamber of Commerce. Refer to the “Responsible Sourcing”  
section of this Report for additional information on our Supplier Diversity Program. The following charts demonstrate the Board’s commitment to 
diversity of backgrounds and Board refreshment.
BRING YOUR DETERMINATION: We’ll give you the power to own 
your success and do work you didn’t know was possible. 
BRING YOUR TEAM SPIRIT: We’ll offer you an openminded and 
low-ego environment. 
BRING YOUR COURAGE: We’ll help you make a tangible impact.
2
333
11 directors
3 women
2 racially diverse16+ 0-5
years
6-10 
years11-15 
years32
11Diversity T enureEMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES89
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 
As part of our overall effort to attract, develop and retain talented 
employees, our compensation programs are designed to align the 
compensation of our employees with our Company and their individual 
performance, and to provide the proper incentives to attract, retain 
and motivate employees to achieve superior results. Moreover, our 
policies and procedures are designed to ensure compensation is 
fair for employees of the same job, at the same level, location and 
performance. These include utilizing pay grades for appropriate job 
groupings, making pay decisions based on relevant factors, such as 
education, experience, and performance, and subjecting pay decisions 
to higher levels of leadership and Human Resources review to ensure 
those decisions are fair, equitable and align with our equal employment 
opportunity policies and objectives.
Employees are eligible for health insurance, prescription drug benefits, 
dental, vision, hospital indemnity, accident, critical illness, and disability 
insurance, life insurance, health savings accounts, flexible spending 
accounts, reproductive rights coverage, participation in savings plans, 
and identity theft insurance, in each case subject to the terms and 
conditions of the applicable plans and programs.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES90
TALENT AND DEVELOPMENT   
Our talent strategy is focused on attracting the best talent and recognizing 
and rewarding performance, while continually developing, engaging 
and retaining our talented employees. We focus on the team member 
experience, removing barriers to engagement, further modernizing the 
human relations process, focusing on hourly team member retention, 
and continually improving equity and effectiveness of all talent practices 
including a fair equitable identification and selection hiring process. 
We invest resources in professional development and growth as a 
means of improving employee performance and improving retention. 
This includes our bi-annual “LEAP” (Leadership Empowerment 
Achievement Program), which is aimed at continuous learning, 
professional training and development opportunities, targeted 
leadership development courses for new and existing leaders 
of different levels of seniority, tuition reimbursement, and job 
specific programs for our employees. Over 732 people leaders have 
participated in the LEAP program since inception. These leaders have 
received on average 37.5 hours of learning in the LEAP program. 
We are committed to ensuring that all employees have the 
opportunities, tools and resources to develop and drive their careers. 
Our employees gain valuable experience in their roles and have the 
opportunity to learn new skills through broad responsibilities and 
experiences. Employees also broaden their skills by participating in cross 
functional projects and assignments. Manager and employees discuss 
their development annual through our performance management cycle.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES91
THE RED BANDANA  
AWARD ON YAMMER  
The Red Bandana Award recognized employees below director 
level who demonstrated certain behaviors, which helped drive our 
company goals and vision. Despite practicing social distancing and 
working remotely, the award program lived on with virtual postings 
on our internal social media Yammer page recognizing employees for 
exemplifying those behaviors.
HIRING OUR HEROES  
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation’s Hiring Our Heroes 
(HOH) is a nationwide effort to connect veterans, service members 
and military spouses with meaningful employment opportunities. In 
collaboration with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s vast network 
of state and local chambers and strategic partners from the public, 
private and nonprofit sectors, their goal is to create a movement 
across America in hundreds of communities where veterans and 
military families return every day. We re-established our partnership 
with HOH in 2019 with the goal of placing fellows in temporary 
assignments in our domestic plants. To date, we’ve had three fellows in 
our Harrisonville, MO plant, all of which received full-time offers. Due 
to the success of the program and our commitment to hiring military 
talent, we expanded the program to our corporate office in 2021.
CAMPUS RECRUITING  
We have long established undergraduate and MBA Marketing 
Internship programs. Our interns and co-ops gain hands-on experience 
and are given the opportunity to test their abilities. We have a core 
school approach for connecting with undergraduates and school 
agnostics, as well as a few core schools for Marketing recruiting.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES92
Diversity, equity and inclusion are a focus for early in-career recruiting. To ensure 
we attract and engage underrepresented minority students, we conduct outreach 
to student groups as well as The Consortium, the nation’s largest diversity 
network. Interns work on real-life projects, get exposure to senior leaders across 
the organization and participate in a multitude of learning events focused on 
building their business acumen, relationship building and communication skills. 
WORKPLACE FLEXIBILITY (WPF)  
We know WPF has proven to increase employee engagement, improve business 
results and thereby our competitive advantage. WPF takes many forms and is not one 
size fits all, so our leaders evaluate the various roles in their departments, and in the 
spirit of what’s possible, figure out how to best support flexibility in their respective 
areas. Enhanced flexibility will continue as corporate locations return to the office. We 
have achieved a great level of success working in this way and have identified roles 
within our organization that will be working from home as their primary work location 
going forward granting us greater flexibility in our sourcing of talent.
CHARITABLE GIVING  
We feel strongly that it’s important to support the communities where we operate, 
and we encourage our employees to become involved in their communities through 
the Church & Dwight Employee Giving Fund (EGF) and The Church & Dwight 
Philanthropic Foundation (the “Foundation”).
 
Employee Giving Fund  
In 2005, we established the EGF, a workplace giving program that supports 
charitable organizations where our employees work and live. While it began with a 
focus in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, the efforts of this organization are continuing 
to expand to include other states in which we have locations, such as Colorado, 
Wisconsin, Iowa and Arkansas. In addition, similar programs launched in our 
locations in Mexico and Australia in 2021.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES93
Each year, we invite our employees to dedicate a portion of their paychecks to the 
EGF. We encourage employee donations by offering employees additional time off 
depending on their level of giving, and by matching all employee contributions dollar for 
dollar, with no cap. Over the past 16 years since its inception, the EGF has become a 
cherished part of our culture, and has awarded nearly 2500 grants totaling over  
$15 million to charitable organizations in the U.S. Through our annual grant process in 
2021, the EGF awarded an aggregate of $1.2 million to 225 deserving organizations 
in a variety of areas, including animal rescue, disadvantaged youth, domestic violence, 
education, physical healthcare, homelessness, hunger relief, mental health and 
awareness, military services, preservation of the environment, services for the elderly, 
social equality, and programs for the arts. Employees are encouraged to sponsor their 
favorite charities in the application process, and funding preference is given to those 
organizations with an employee sponsor.
Additionally, the EGF funded natural disaster relief through the donation of $25,000 to 
the Red Cross to combat wildfires and tornadoes. Category # of Orgs Funding
Animal Rescue 22  $112,700 
Disadvantaged Youth 48  $284,700 
Domestic Violence 6  $45,000 
Educational Support 26  $102,500 
Elderly Services 6  $54,000 
Homelessness 17  $111,000 
Hunger Relief 30  $189,750 
Mental Health & Awareness 13  $67,000 
Military/First Responders Support 7  $40,500 
Performing & Visual Arts 11  $50,000 
Physical Healthcare 19  $ 75,775 
Preservation of the Environment 13  $100,500 
Social Equality 7  $32,000 
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES94
While we could not participate in the many volunteer activities conducted during our usual 
annual Week of Service, employees were still able to give back. Employees purchased  
back-to-school supplies to support disadvantaged youth, donated clothes and non-perishable 
items for clothing and food drives and provided supplies for a summer camp and holiday 
dinner for families in need at HomeFront NJ, a local nonprofit that provides services for 
homeless youth and families in Central New Jersey, and one of EGF’s signature partners.
CHURCH & DWIGHT 
PHILANTHROPIC FOUNDATION
The Foundation was established in 2020 with the focus on helping to create equitable 
and inclusive opportunities and advancing environmental preservation. The Foundation 
is administered by our employees. In 2021, six organizations were chosen and received 
grants in aggregate totaling $1 million. In the DEI space, the following organizations 
received grants: Junior Achievement, The Trevor Project, and Bowie University. In the 
Sustainability space, the following organizations received grants: The Recycling 
Partnership, Ocean Conservancy, Northeast Wilderness Trust, and The Xerces Society  
for Invertebrate Conservation.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES95
WORKPLACE SAFETY & HEALTH 
Our commitment to employee, contractor and visitor safety and health is integral in 
everything we do within our organization. We ensure compliance with regulatory 
agencies’ requirements and build our standards to meet or exceed them. We incorporate 
hazard identification and mitigation in our daily work and new initiatives.
We have made great progress in reducing injuries within our manufacturing facilities. 
Driven by employee training, injury case management, near miss recognition and robust 
standardized programs, we continue our work towards our goal of eliminating injuries. 
Our injury rates are consistently lower than the statistics in our manufacturing categories 
provided by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.  While we are proud of our advances in 
workplace safety, we acknowledge our work cannot stop to prevent injuries. 
We use continuous improvement, paired with our Lean program to grow our safety 
systems and culture.  We have safety committees at our manufacturing sites, comprised 
of hourly employees and leadership, working together to improve safety.  We utilize 
industrial hygiene monitoring which enables us to collect data on the effectiveness of 
our controls. Working with a global Root Cause Analysis program we eliminate hazards 
through reapplication of countermeasures across facilities. 
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES96
WORKPLACE SAFETY 
We currently use Days Away, Restricted or Transferred (“DART”) rate and Total Recordable 
Injury Rate (“TRIR”) as our historical safety performance indicators, consistent with U.S. 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration definitions. Looking to the future, we 
are developing leading indicators that represent our safety performance to help prevent 
injuries and incidents within our company. The charts below provide our DART and 
recordable rates for the past three years, and associated injuries for our global operations. 
Both metrics are well below the relevant industry benchmark (BM Manufacturing).1  
Note that the data below does not include cases related to the COVID pandemic.
1The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics defines Benchmark Manufacturing as: food; beverage and tobacco product; textile 
mills; textile product mills; apparel; leather and applied product; wood product; paper; printing and related support 
activities; petroleum and coal products; chemical; plastics and rubber products; nonmetallic mineral product; primary 
metal; fabricated metal product; machinery; computer and electronic product; electrical equipment, appliance, and 
component; transportation equipment; furniture and related product; miscellaneous.0.40.52.0 2.0
0.7 0.72.0
0.00.51.01.52.02.5
2019 2020 2021
2019 2020 20213.5
1.11.0
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.0DART RATES
TRIR
1.0 1.0
1.3 1.31.5 1.5
TRIR - USADART Rate - USA DART Rate - Global
TRIR - Global BM Manufacturing  
(1)BM Manufacturing  
(1)
3.1 3.1EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES97
WORKPLACE SAFETY TRAINING 
One of our key priorities in our safety program is training.  Our training program 
addresses the hazards we encounter at each site, along with regulatory requirements. 
We consider safety training as a proactive measure to drive injury prevention and 
control. Across our sites, we utilize a computer-based program that provides the platform 
to schedule, store and track all training.  This program delivers benefits from the sharing 
of training and knowledge across our sites.
WORKPLACE SAFETY AUDITS 
We contract a third-party consultant to lead our annual safety audits.  Auditing our sites 
and programs against regulations and internal standards is one of our leading indicators 
in safety performance.  We have enhanced our audits this past year to go beyond federal 
and state regulatory expectations and include best management practices in the industry.  
Our audit focuses on management systems and involvement, programs, compliance and 
employee behavior with a focus on leadership values, worksite analysis, prevention of 
injuries, and controls.  Action plans resulting from these audits are tracked and reviewed 
to ensure completion and effectiveness.
SAFETY-RELATED  
REGULATORY ACTION 
Like all other companies, we are subject to regulatory inspection and review. In 2021, 
we received ten regulatory inquiries (letters, phone calls, planned and unplanned visits) 
to our global operations sites. As a result of the ten regulatory inquiries, there were five 
recommendations and zero penalties issued.
ENVIRONMENT98
ENVIRONMENT
Minimize Environmental Impact of 
Our Global Operations 
Achieve carbon neutral status for our owned and controlled 
global operations by end of 2025
Achieve the approved science-based targets to reduce our 
greenhouse gas emissions by 2031
Reduce global process water and/ or wastewater by 10% 
annually normalized to production
Evaluate reductions in our water footprint in high  
water-stressed regions
 Maintain a global operations solid waste recycling rate of 75% 
Continue progress toward zero solid waste to landfill for 25% 
of our operations by end of 2023
ENVIRONMENT99
GHG EMISSION REDUCTION GOALS  
Our primary environmental strategic goal is for all global operations owned and controlled by  
us to be carbon neutral by 2025, by reducing and offsetting our carbon emissions through energy 
savings projects, renewable energy credits (RECs), purchase power agreements (PPAs), onsite 
solar projects and tree planting. We already offset greater than 70% of the carbon dioxide that 
we emit today. We also have a new goal to achieve approved science-based targets to reduce our  
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2031. For more information about our strategy for achieving 
these goals, refer to the “Climate Change” section of this Report beginning on page 30.
MANAGING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL  
SUSTAINABILITY & SAFETY 
It is essential for us to make great products in facilities with robust environmental, health and safety 
performance. We work toward this high-performance culture by adhering to well established  
principles defined in our Environmental and Safety Policies. These policies guide our environmental 
and safety practices and expectations, and they are implemented through the following approach: 
• Accountability  – Each of our facilities has a designated on-site environmental and safety 
manager responsible for monitoring and managing environmental and safety issues 
affecting their facility. These environmental and safety managers are closely networked to 
enable peer mentorship and best practice sharing across facilities. 
• Audits and Inspections  – Each of our facilities undergoes a third-party conducted  
environmental audit every other year. All facilities are subject to periodic, unannounced  
inspections by federal, state and local environmental agencies. 
• Awareness  – We offer regular training for all our manufacturing employees to promote 
awareness of environmental and safety practices and procedures. This includes an annual  
Environmental and Safety Conference for facility environmental and safety managers.  
We have systems to share our key performance indicators at both a site level and  
corporate level regarding action plan progress and sustainability performance. 
ENVIRONMENT100
• Awards  – Each year we recognize one of our global operations for exemplary 
environmental safety and sustainability performance. An award is presented to 
a representative of the operation at a company-wide Town Hall event.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 
We strive to meet the challenge of managing our environmental footprint and 
minimize impacts of our expanding operations. We rely upon our employees’ 
strong implementation of our environmental and sustainability initiatives, and on 
our lean management approaches to achieve our performance goals. We regularly 
evaluate our primary impact metrics (regulatory compliance, energy use, water 
use and waste generation) and take necessary actions across the company to 
optimize our operations. We set goals and track performance against them. 
In addition to our longer-term goals regarding carbon 
neutrality, water reduction and recycling, we have  
established annual reduction goals normalized to amount 
of product shipped, including: 
10% reduction in total energy at our operating 
facilities/MM lbs product shipped 
10% reduction in water intake at our operating 
facilities/MM lbs product shipped 
10% reduction in waste at our operating 
facilities/MM lbs product shipped 
10% reduction in GHG emissions/MM lbs product  
shipped within our defined GHG scope (Scope 1 +  
Scope 2 + Scope 3 finished goods transportation)
ENVIRONMENT101
2021 CITATIONS & PENALTIES  
SURCHARGES 
All facilities undergo periodic, unannounced inspections by federal, state, and 
local environmental agencies. In 2021, there were 18 such inspections 
conducted at our operations, which resulted in no citations. However, two 
citations were received related to administrative issues that were not 
associated with any onsite regulatory inspections.  One was the result of a 
technical deficiency on a historic spill/emergency response notification.  The 
second was a missed waste reporting deadline.  Corrective actions were 
identified and immediately implemented. Total penalties in the amount of 
$1,000 were assessed and paid by us for the citations received. 
SPILLS/RELEASES TO THE  
ENVIRONMENT 
We monitor and report on spills and releases to the environment. This includes 
our Colonial Heights, Virginia plant, which, as a result of the manufacturing 
process, releases ammonia to the atmosphere on a consistent basis each year 
and in compliance with all air pollution control regulations.  We are actively 
seeking alternate technology that could eliminate ammonia from this process or 
reduce process emission to below release threshold amounts.
In 2021, we had no reportable accidental releases to the environment.
ENVIRONMENT102
REMEDIATION 
In 2021, there was limited activity regarding environmental remediation 
companywide, with the most significant activity occurring in connection with 
the closure and remediation activity at sites in Brazil maintained by our wholly 
owned subsidiary Química Geral do Nordeste Ltda. (QGN). The closure and 
remediation activities are summarized below.  
 
QGN, Feira de Santana, Brazil 
There are ongoing remediation efforts at the closed facility of QGN in 
Brazil. The remediation efforts include the control and capture of  
contaminated groundwater through an interceptor trench drainage system, as 
well as the installation of additional monitoring wells for the site 
characterization. Remediation spending in 2021 was approximately $350,000. 
QGN, Itapura, Brazil 
The mining operations that supported the inorganic salt manufacturing 
operation for QGN is undergoing closure activity. The remediation efforts in 
2021 are primarily the grading and re-vegetation of the slopes of the surface 
mine. There was no significant remediation spending in 2021. 
ENERGY 
Energy used in our operations is a direct contributor to carbon emissions. 
Energy is required in all phases of our operations from lighting offices, to 
burning fuels for heat or steam for processing, to charging electric fork trucks in 
our warehouses. We use both direct (on site fuel combustion) and indirect (off 
site electric or steam generation) energy sources in our business. Energy is also 
used outside our operations by third parties not directly under our control, who 
provide raw materials and/or contract manufactured products. 
ENVIRONMENT103
We currently track energy use within our operation from all of our compa-
ny-controlled locations, including administrative offices, R&D operations, 
manufacturing plants, and warehouse/distribution locations. We track energy 
consumption in terms of specific fuels, total energy (GJ equivalent for all fuel 
and electricity use), and our normalized energy consumption in GJ per million 
pounds of product shipped. Additional discussion of the Energy Metrics and 
Targets is included in the “Climate Change” section of this Report.
 
TRANSPORTATION
In an effort to be more fuel efficient, we ship large portions of our freight via 
rail instead of trucks. When we do ship via trucks, we have selected core 
transportation suppliers that are reviewing and implementing various strategies 
and technologies to reduce their carbon footprint.
For example, more than 80% of our freight is transported by 
carriers(s) that have engaged (or have plans to engage) in 
one or more of the following:
• Expanded use of Zero-Emissions vehicles, including battery electric and 
hydrogen fuel cell technology
• Deployment of advanced idle reduction technologies
• Utilization of next generation clean diesel engines
• Active partnership with EPA’s SmartWay Program
• Testing of Climate Battery Powered Auxiliary Power Units (APU), with 
expect ed improvements in reduced idle time, lower fuel consumption and 
higher efficiency meeting thermal demands of the cab environment
• Reduced maximum speeds of tractors by two miles per hour, which lowers 
wind resistance and emissions output
• Field testing of new axle technology that disengages one of the two drive 
axles at highway speeds which results in lower torque and power  
requirements, allowing the engine to burn less fuel
• Implementing next generation tractor and trailer aerodynamic solutions
ENVIRONMENT104
WASTE  
We have a goal to maintain a global operations solid waste recycling rate of 75%, and in 
2021 we achieved 71% against that goal.  In addition, we have a new goal of continue 
progress toward zero solid waste to landfill for 25% of our operations by end of 2023, 
and at the end of 2021 we were at 15% against that goal.
Through our environmental management system, we have procedures in place to  
responsibly handle and dispose of waste generated in our manufacturing operations. 
We use properly licensed contractors to transport and dispose of waste from our  
facilities, and waste volumes are entered monthly into our centralized environmental 
data system. The volume of waste associated with our product use – the solid waste  
created by consumers disposing of product packaging – is approximately three times 
larger than the waste generated in our operations. We have worked extensively to  
minimize packaging, reduce plastic packaging and increase package recyclability. See 
the “Packaging” section of this Report for more information.
In 2021, our total waste generation was up by 4% over the prior year. This was primarily 
driven by trying to balance supply chain issues and customer demand.  The general result 
was creating more frequent, but potentially lower volume, production runs, yielding 
more frequent product and equipment changeovers on our manufacturing lines.  These 
higher occurrences of changeovers, by their nature created higher volumes of process 
waste equipment cleanouts, product heels, and in general less efficient manufacturing.  
This is reflected in our increased 2021 waste volume. In addition, additional trash and 
cleaning waste related to COVID-19 precautions implemented in 2020 continued 
throughout 2021 (e.g. contaminated PPE and cleaning waste). 
We experienced the trend of increased waste generation across almost all of our waste 
media types, but exhibited the largest increases in non-hazardous/chemical/process 
waste and wastewater trucked off site.  In 2021, we saw a net increase of approximately 
2,500 tons vs 2020. Wastewater transported offsite, which cannot be sent to a public 
treatment works at the manufacturing location, represents the largest percentage of the 
waste by weight, at 43%. Trucked wastewater increase (+4%) is directly related to  
production throughput and supplier and customer induced production runs with  
increased changeovers. The higher incidents of changeovers also impacted the amount 
of product-heel waste that must be disposed of through equipment cleanings and  
washouts increasing our non-hazardous/chemical/process waste generation.
ENVIRONMENT105
Total recycle weight in 2021 was down nearly 436 tons (3%).  For our base material 
recycling programs, plastic recycle was up (+89 tons) and total corrugate/paper recycle 
was up (+30 tons).  These increases were offset by decreases in wood/pallet, metal, 
and other recycled materials.  
Annual Waste Generation Totals [short tons]
2019 2020 2021
Total Waste Generation 57,758 59,888 62,420
General Trash 6,102 6,416 6,590
Hazardous Waste 1,130 411 452
Non-hazardous/chemical/process waste 13,109 11,348 13,071
Wastewater trucked off site 23,745 25,322 26,351
Recycling 13,673 16,392 15,956
 Waste Generated and Managed in 2021 [short tons]
Onsite Offsite Total
Hazardous Waste (tons)
Energy Recovery 0 96 96
Incineration 0 39 39
Other Disposal 0 318 318
Diverted from disposal 0 0 0
452
Onsite Offsite Total
Non-Hazardous Waste (tons)
Energy Recovery 0 526 526
Incineration 0 259 259
Other Disposal 1,827 43,400 45,227
Diverted from disposal 0 15,956 15,956
61,968
ENVIRONMENT106
Hazardous waste generation increased by 41 tons in 2021, and still represents less than 
1% of all waste generated. Most of our facilities are considered small quantity generators 
of hazardous waste. No hazardous wastes are treated onsite. All hazardous wastes are 
transported offsite by properly licensed vendors to appropriate treatment, storage, or 
disposal sites. All solid waste is transported offsite and properly disposed at licensed  
facilities, except for our facility in Wyoming that  maintains an onsite non-hazardous 
waste landfill. We have no international shipments of hazardous or nonhazardous wastes.
In 2021, our recycle rate was 71%, down from 72% in 2020, just below our target. We 
continue to work towards our recycle rate goal of 75% for our combined recycle and 
general trash waste streams. 
The following charts provide a comparison of the offsite waste disposal methods utilized 
in 2021, and normalized waste generation quantities for the last three years. Overall, 
our normalized waste generation to million pounds of product shipped was up in 2021. 
The normalized metric was up 6%. This was largely due to increased process scrap and  
wastewater volumes generated by higher frequency of changeovers encountered due 
to supply chain impacts on our manufacturing operations throughout 2021.  We did 
not achieve our 10% reduction in normalized waste (tons/million pounds shipped). 
In 2022, we expect to further leverage our Lean processes to help reduce our waste 
volumes as we continue to strive for our ever green 10% reduction target normalized 
waste per million pounds of product shipped.
0.2 0.5
26
38
1.01.2332021 Waste by Fate (%)
Landfill
IncinerationCompost
WW TreatmentRecycle/Reuse
Energy RecoveryOther Disposal
ENVIRONMENT107
COVID-19 precautions, workforce limitations due to illness, and travel restriction/ 
reduced personal interactions all put an unprecedented strain on our production 
operations in 2021. Demand for our products led many of our production locations 
to achieve record high output milestones. Despite these additional obstacles, as with 
energy and water, we continued exploring ways to save energy, reduce water and 
minimize waste as we increased production. Our operating plants regularly develop 
specific, targeted waste minimization projects. While these efforts are not always 
successful, the net results are reflected in the 2021 metrics described in this Report. 
0.02.04.06.08.010.012.0
Waste per   
product shipped  
 [short ton/MM lb]General Trash  
per product  
shipped  
[short ton/MM lb]Hazardous  
Waste  per 
product shipped  
[short ton/MM lb]Non-hazardous/  
chemical/process  
waste  per  
product shipped  
[short ton/MM lb]Wastewater  
 trucked off  
site per  
 product shipped  
[short ton/MM lb]Recycling per   
product shipped  
[short ton/MM lb]Normalized Waste Trends (tons/MM lb)
2019 2020 202110.29.81
1.08
0.202.324.20
2.42
1.05
0.071.864.15
2.68
1.09
0.082.174.38
2.6510.4ENVIRONMENT108
WASTE REDUCTION PROJECTS 
Continued Beneficial Reuse
In our 2020 report we discussed expanding beneficial reuse/recycling of solid 
gummy vitamin wastes to an animal feed supplement process at our York, PA plant.  
In 2021, we identified and implemented similar options for beneficialreuse of the 
solid gummy vitamin wastes to an animal feed supplement at our Vancouver, WA 
plant. This diverted an additional 1,250 tons of waste from landfills in 2021. In all, 
32 million pounds of waste that otherwise was destined for landfills was diverted 
to beneficial reuse or recycling from our plants. We continued to seek out  
beneficial reuse opportunities for many of our waste materials.
Material Processing/Handling  
Improvements
Several of our plants have implemented small to medium sized projects to 
improve general material processing and handling.  Some examples include 
better seals and maintenance on enclosed transfer equipment to minimize solid 
powder leaks, changing to container liners with roll equipment to maximize 
product removal before disposal, and installation and maintenance of improved 
product weight measurement and delivery equipment/processes that reduce 
the amount of container under/over fills and associated wastes.  We estimate 
from projects implemented in 2021 that approximately 1,200 tons of line scrap 
annually has been eliminated.
Product Reclaim
Many of our production processes include a step for reclaim of suitable off 
specification product.  These reclaim loops are utilized in production of liquid 
laundry detergent, cat litter, and sodium bicarbonate to name a couple examples.  
Additional product reclaim or improved product reclaim processes were 
incorporated into our manufacturing of OxiClean and our laundry detergent 
ENVIRONMENT109
WATER  
Water is a critical resource for the sustainable future of our business, the communities 
in which we operate, and the planet as a whole. At Church & Dwight, we recognize that 
responsible management of that resource to ensure the availability of adequate water 
volume and quality is part of our company contribution to the sustainable future of the 
communities in which we live and work. Water is a shared resource for all. Our water risk 
assessments and especially new location strategy includes evaluation of adequate water 
availability. We regularly work with our public water suppliers and regulatory authorities to 
support them and to understand potential for local water resource constraints, the needs 
of other users and potential impacts on our business and the locations where we operate.
Water quality and quantity are critical aspects of our operations as well. Water is a  
necessary ingredient in many of our products and operations. The majority of our water 
consumption is as a product ingredient. Water used for cooling, cleaning or other process 
operations, and sanitary use is treated and discharged back to the environment. 
Our water reduction programs have not yet achieved the gross reductions we had 
planned, but our data does show that we have achieved a steady reduction in annual 
water intake since 2017.  These water reduction efforts are contributing to a steady 
reduction in normalized total water intake (thousand gallons/million pounds product 
shipped). In consideration of this we have established a water goal for the company to 
work towards an annual 10% reduction of normalized water intake per million pounds 
of product shipped. In 2021, we achieved a 5% reduction in total water intake and a 4% 
reduction in water intake normalized per million pounds of product shipped. We did not 
achieve our annual goal of 10% reduction in water intake per million pounds of prod-
uct shipped.  We remain committed to reducing our water use.  Additional information 
regarding our water use strategy and performance is provided below.
WATER STRESS RISK 
The World Resources Institute (WRI) water risk evaluation identifies areas with higher  
exposure to water stress related risks and is an aggregated measure of selected regional water 
risk indicators such as physical quantity, physical quality and regulatory & reputational risk. 
Our 2021 update of the overall water stress risk associated with our operating locations used 
the most recent version of the Aqueduct 3.0 Water Risk Atlas, Global Maps Data found on the 
WRI website (https:/ /www.wri.org/aqueduct). This most recent review found that the overall 
baseline water-stress risk classification lowered the risk for two of our locations compared 
to our previous reviews, while the balance remained at the same risk classifications.
ENVIRONMENT110
None of our facilities are in areas classified with extremely high or high 
water-stress risk as identified by the WRI. Three of our North American 
locations and our United Kingdom plant are in medium to high water-stress risk areas.  
The majority of our locations are in low to medium risk or low risk areas as defined by 
WRI. In terms of overall extraction, approximately 95% of our total water extraction is 
from locations classified a low or low-medium overall water-stress risk. 
We continue to periodically assess our water risk through the WRI classification as well 
as conducting public water and ground water supply assessments, primarily focused 
on our high volume or critical water quality locations, and we have established a new 
goal to evaluate reductions in our water footprint in high water-stressed regions. Water 
supply issues are often part of our business interruption risk planning and exercises. As a 
result of our attention to water issues, we have not experienced any business disruptions 
related to water availability or quality and have not identified any imminent water supply 
concerns that would affect our operations or the locations where we operate.
58%37%5%Percent Total Water Extraction by WRI 
Water Risk Category
Medium-High (2-3)
Low-Medium (1-2)
Low (0-1)
ENVIRONMENT111
WATER INTAKE AND USE 
Approximately 84% of our water intake is from public water supply systems. The 
remaining 16% is from groundwater wells on our facilities. We routinely interact 
with our public water supply purveyors to evaluate our incoming water quality and 
quantity to assure it meets drinking water quality standards and that available water 
capacity can meet company needs. Well water used is regularly tested to verify it 
also meets our quality standards. Even with incoming water meeting drinking water 
quality standards, most of our locations engage in tertiary water treatment to 
provide the highest quality necessary for our production operations. 
We define net water consumption as: Net Consumption (gal) = T otal water 
intake (gal) – T otal water discharges/disposals (gal) 
During 2021, our operations required nearly 470 million gallons of freshwater intake, 
down 25 million gallons (-5%) from 2020. Total water discharged was increased by 
approximately 5 million gallons (3%) compared to 2020. As a result, total water net 
consumption was down approximately 10% in 2021. We consumed approximately 
57% of the water extracted and discharged 43% back to the environment in 2021. 
The consumption estimate includes evaporative losses. Our water use efficiency  
improved as can be seen in our normalized water metric (thousand gallons water 
intake/mm lbs. product shipped), which decreased by 4% from 2020 to 2021. 
The charts show the absolute and normalized water intake and water consumption 
for 2016 through 2021.
Total Water (MM gallons)
499521 507 510 495470
282 288 292 289 298268
217 233 215 221197 202
0100200300400500600
2016 2017   2018   2019   2020   2021
Intake[MM gal ] Consumed [MM gal Discharged [MM  gal ] ]ENVIRONMENT112
We continue efforts to identify and implement specific projects related to water 
conservation. Projects include eliminating single pass uses, optimizing water  
reclaim/recycling systems, minimizing evaporative losses and improving efficiency in 
our water handling and treatment equipment, especially at our most water intensive 
plants. While we continue to seek projects that will have a substantial impact on 
reducing our water use, we are also making changes on the site level throughout 
the organization that contribute to our ongoing water minimization efforts. Sites 
have installed waterless toilets, implemented improved operations and maintenance 
programs to minimize water leaks or valve failures, installed smart meters to better 
monitor water use, and evaluated opportunities to reclaim or re-use wasted water. 
Not every effort has been successful, but they all help drive our culture of  
responsibility, sustainability, and conservation that resulted in an absolute reduction 
of 25 million gallons of water intake in 2021 vs 2020.
98.0 97.591.3 90.1
81.1 78.1
55.0 54.0 52.6 51.0 48.944.6
0.020.040.060.080.0100. 0120. 0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021Normalized Water Use
(thousand gallons/MM lb shipped) 
Intake [Thousand gal /MM lb] Consumed [Thousand gal /MM lb]ENVIRONMENT113
WASTEWATER DISCHARGES  
We generate and discharge industrial and sanitary waste waters from our  
operations. These discharges have potential to impact water quality of a receiving 
water body. Approximately 99% of our wastewater is discharged to local 
municipal wastewater treatment plants, transported offsite for appropriate 
disposal, or treated onsite prior to discharge. The remaining 1% is direct discharge 
of clean fire system water.  Approximately 83% of our wastewater is treated off 
site by others before being discharged to the environment, which means it is 
discharged directly to a public treatment works for further treatment, hauled to 
an offsite facility for further treatment prior to discharge, or discharged to off-site 
evaporation ponds with no direct discharge.
66%14%0%2%1%17%Wastewater Discharge Distribution
Discharge to Sewer (POTW)
Discharge to Surface Water  
with Treatment
Discharge to Ground Water  
with Treatment
Discharge to Ground Water  
No Treatment
Discharge to OtherDischarge to Surface Water  
No Treatment
ENVIRONMENT114
Process wastewaters are discharged under permits issued by the appropriate 
local jurisdiction and treatment authorities. At about one quarter of our  
locations’ specific wastewater streams, such as high strength biochemical 
oxygen demand or surfactant streams, are segregated, collected, and 
transported off site to an appropriate treatment facility when the local 
wastewater authority is unable to receive the discharges. Priority wastewater 
treatment (or pre-treatment) of our wastewaters varies by site, operation, and 
local requirements, but may include pH adjustment, solids removal, metals 
removal (e.g., zinc), and organics reduction. 
Our Old Fort, Ohio plant is the only operation with a direct industrial 
wastewater discharge. This plant manufactures sodium bicarbonate and other 
products. Under the EPA Clean Water Act, Categorical Pre-Treatment 
regulations the sodium bicarbonate manufacturing process is considered a 
“zero discharge” process. All wastewater impacted by sodium bicarbonate is 
recovered and re-used in the sodium bicarbonate process or other production. 
The Old Fort plant treats and discharges sanitary and general wastewater (from 
mechanical systems, non-contact cooling, and other non-sodium bicarbonate 
processes). Treatment processes include filtration, settling, pH adjustment, and 
microbial disinfection (for sanitary wastes). The discharges are allowed under a 
permit issued by the state environmental regulatory authority and include 
regular monitoring of wastewater parameters for compliance with established 
limits. Parameters include flow, color, dissolved oxygen, solids, nitrogen, fecal  
coliform, chlorine residual, chemical and biological oxygen demand, oil and 
grease, and pH. No permit excursions or violations occurred in 2021. In 2021, the 
plant discharged 28.4 million gallons of treated wastewater to the Sandusky River. 
The lower Sandusky River is classified as an Ohio Scenic River.  In anticipation 
of plant expansion, we received permission in 2021 to expand and upgrade the 
wastewater treatment capacity allowed by our permit.  We continue to work with 
local regulatory authorities to ensure our wastewater is properly managed prior 
to discharge minimizing any impact to the receiving waters.
As a result of onsite treatment, pre-treatment, and off-site treatment of our 
wastewater, discharges from our operations do not significantly affect water 
quality in any receiving water bodies.
ENVIRONMENT115
Water Conservation Projects
Reverse Osmosis and Water Purification Process Changes  
A number of our operating plants conduct water purification processes, 
including reverse osmosis, to ensure we use the highest quality water in our 
products.  Many of these processes can waste large volumes of water during 
regeneration and back washing the system treatment media or system start up 
flushing (reject) until the desired water quality is reached.  We have actively  
engaged in examining these processes.  Through adjusting performance 
parameters or installing reject water capture and feedback loops, we saved an 
estimated 3.7 million gallons of water in 2021 that otherwise would have been 
wasted. We estimate by implementing these changes we have saved greater than 
12 million gallons of water since 2019. 
Elimination of a Once Through Cooling 
Water Process in UK  
Our Folkestone, England plant installed a chilled water loop to replace an existing 
single-pass cooling system for jacketed product mix tanks.  Thanks to this process 
change the plant saved approximately 2.8 million gallons of cooling water discharge.  
This change, in combination with other smaller water conservation measures,  
resulted in reducing the plant water intake by nearly 1/3 in 2021 vs 2020. 
Even the Small Changes Help  
A number of our plants also evaluated and made changes to cleaning and  
sanitation practices. These changes are often slow to take hold as we must ensure 
and validate that equipment cleaning continues to meet our GMP and quality 
standards. Some smaller changes have included installation of clean-in-place or 
fixed volume wash systems, campaigning production where possible to minimize 
equipment changeover cleaning, employee training to raise consciousness of  
excess water use during manual cleaning, and similar practices. In 2021, we 
estimate savings of between 0.5 to 1 million gallons of water related to improved 
cleaning practices and wash water management.
ENVIRONMENT116
AIR EMISSIONS  
In addition to greenhouse gas emissions discussed in the Climate Change section 
of this Report, several of our facilities report on specific air emissions as required 
by a facility air permit. The chart below represents the breakdown of Criteria Air 
Pollutant emissions as defined by the EPA for those facilities that are required to 
track or report air emissions. In 2021, our total reported air emissions of criteria 
pollutants were approximately 300 tons with 73% being particulates.
7%
6%
11%
73%0.1%0.4%3%
Carbon Monoxide
Particulate MatterNitrogen Oxides [NOx}
Ozone (VOCs)Other Air EmissionsSulfur Oxides [SOx]
Hazardous Air Pollutants2021 Criteria Air Pollutant Emissions
ENVIRONMENT117
GLOBAL LEAN IMPLEMENTATION  
We have the ambition to be recognized as the LEAN expert in CPG industry 
by 2025. LEAN is intended to minimize waste, improve overall equipment 
effectiveness, and engage the workforce. During 2021, we conducted over 
1,250 Lean activities engaging over 2,500 employees and yielding $9.4MM in 
efficiency savings as part of our Good to Great program. This is our 3rd year 
applying LEAN concepts. In 2021, six plants achieved “Lean Bronze Level 
Certification”, an important Lean milestone that signifies these plants met 
industry standards in the application of LEAN princples
Through the application of LEAN principles, we are achieving higher levels of 
production output, productivity and reduced material losses. Our goal for 2022 
is to achieve Bronze Level Certification for the two additional plants and Silver 
Level Certification at three additional plants.
Montreal Canada Bronze 
certification in November 2021RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING118
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING 
Committed to Improving our  
Supply Chain’s Environmental,  
Social and Ethical Practices 
Assess 100% of at-risk suppliers 
Source 100% RSPO Certified Mass Balance palm oil  
ingredients by the end of 2025 
Continue to purchase at least 97% of palm oil ingredients 
traceable to mills 
Continue to manage our operations in a responsible and 
sustainable manner
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING119
By upholding high ethical standards, continually evaluating  
our environmental impact, creating a safe workplace, and 
vigilantly maintaining our commitment to responsible sourcing, 
we have held our position as a trusted provider  of household, 
personal care and specialty products for over 170 years. 
Our supply chain is a significant part of our business, and more than half of 
our employees support its day-to-day operations. We source from over 500 
suppliers and contract manufacturers, the majority of which are located in 
North America. All of our employees and suppliers are expected to comply 
with our Global Operations Guiding Principles  (the “Principles”), which 
are incorporated by reference into most of our supplier agreements. 
The Principles address business ethics and compliance, anti-corruption, fair  
labor conditions, health and safety, and environmental protection, and reflect 
our commitment to internationally recognized standards and our support and 
respect for internationally proclaimed human rights. They are significantly aligned 
with the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights; the International Labor 
Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; 
and the Labor Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 
The Principles are also significantly aligned with the Ethical Trading 
Initiative Base Code, the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 
2010, the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015 and the methodology and 
guidance documents provided by Sedex, which provide a universally  
recognizable and common framework. 
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING120
In 2021, we focused our Responsible Sourcing Program, further  
educating our employees responsible for relationships with suppliers 
and contract manufacturers on potential Human Rights challenges in the 
supply chain and our Responsible Sourcing Program. We continued our 
relationship with AIM-PROGRESS, a forum of manufacturers and sup-
pliers that promotes responsible sourcing practices, to help benchmark 
and provide industry guidance in support of our responsible sourcing 
journey. We worked with our supply base to onboard participating  
factories in at-risk geographies on the Sedex platform. 
We support the Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and the UK 
Modern Slavery act of 2015. We conducted risk-based supplier audits 
against ISO Quality Standards and Food Safety Standards. Audits are 
conducted by our Quality Department and supplemented, as needed, 
by independent third parties. Suppliers found to be in violation of our 
Principles are subject to corrective actions which may include follow up 
audits and termination of business. 
We have a training program for applicable employees and management 
that reinforces our Principles. This program supplements our Code 
of Conduct training that applies to all employees and directors, and 
requires compliance with applicable laws, including those prohibiting 
slavery and human trafficking. Any violation of applicable laws, our 
Code of Conduct or our Principles by a Church & Dwight employee 
or supplier may result in disciplinary action, including termination of 
employment or business relationship.
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING121
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING - PALM OIL 
While we do not directly buy or use palm oil or palm kernel oil in our 
products, some of our products – including animal feed, liquid laundry 
detergents, gummy vitamins, oral care and feminine care products – in-
corporate palm oil derivatives. Although our use of palm oil derivatives is 
relatively low, approximately less than 4% of total direct materials spend, 
we recognize the palm oil industry has a significant impact on biodiversity, 
climate change, people and communities. Accordingly, we strive to 
responsibly source palm oil derivatives in a manner that does not 
contribute to deforestation of high conservation value, high carbon stock 
forest and peatlands, or exploitation of people and local communities. 
In 2021, we continued our membership with the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and completed our second Annual 
Communication of Progress (for 2020 results). While we are not RSPO 
Supply Chain Certified, we purchased virtually all of the 39,203 tons of 
palm oil derivative raw material volume we consumed from one RSPO 
member supplier that has represented to us that this material is over 
97% traceable to the mill. More than 32% of this volume was purchased 
in mass balance material. Our supplier has also represented to us that all 
such palm oil derivatives have been produced in conformance with its “No 
Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation Policy.” 
Due to the complexity of the palm oil derivative supply chain, the process 
of achieving traceability involves a number of companies at many tiers. 
Because our greatest opportunity to influence the supply chain is through 
our partnerships with our suppliers, our objective of surpassing 97% 
traceability to the mills is subject to change based on the progress of our 
suppliers. In addition to full traceability to mills, we support and encourage 
suppliers to achieve as much traceability to the plantations as possible and 
to comply with RSPO standards as they evolve.
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING122
Beyond traceability, our more comprehensive  
Palm Oil Sustainable Sourcing Commitment expands the  
scope of our responsibility to help address the following  
specific sourcing practices:
•   Ending our contributions to deforestation by conserving and protecting  
primary and secondary forests, High Carbon Stock1 and High Conservation 
Value2 forests across all supplier landholdings
• Ending new development on peatlands, regardless of depth
• Leveraging best management practices3 for existing palm oil plantations on peat soils.
• Prohibiting the use of fire for preparation or clearing of land areas.
• Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and existing operations.  
• Complying with existing RSPO Principles and Criteria or other equivalent standards.
• Ending any exploitation of the rights of indigenous peoples and local communities
1. High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests as defined at http:/ /highcarbonstock.org by the HCS Steering Group.
2.  High Conservation Value (HCV) as defined by the HCV network:  
https:/ /www.hcvnetwork.org/about-hcvf/the-sixhigh-conservation-values.
3.  Best management practices covered by the “RSPO Manual on Best Management Practices (BMPs) for existing oil palm 
cultivation on peat.”
To accomplish these goals, we require our primary supplier to meet or exceed the stan-
dards set forth in its No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation Policy, 
provide quarterly reports regarding its supply chain mapping, provide progress reports 
against the commitments set forth in its policy, and meet or exceed RSPO standards 
for RSPO certification. From time to time we may also further investigate various other 
approaches and tools that may be available to help us assess our supply chain. 
RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING123
CONFLICT MINERALS
We are committed to ensuring  that our products do not contain conflict  
minerals that have funded armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or  
an adjoining country. Any supplier found to be in violation of our policies is subject to  
corrective action, which may include termination of business.
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Established in 2019, our U.S.-based Supplier Diversity Program aims at driving spend 
growth with certified diverse suppliers by ensuring their inclusion in our Procurement led 
sourcing process. We joined two of the leading Supplier Diversity Certification  
organizations, The Women’s Business Enterprise National Council and The National  
Minority Supplier Development Council, to help inform and develop our program’s  
foundation. We require that diverse suppliers are certified by one of these organizations 
to be part of our Supplier Diversity Program. Our Supplier Diversity Program 2019  
baseline spend was $18.6MM. 
In 2021, we built upon our foundation by educating and collaborating with stakeholders 
throughout the organization on our Supplier Diversity Program and goals. The Supplier 
Diversity Program underwent significant transition in 2021, including the recruitment of a 
new supplier diversity leader. We used this opportunity to benchmark the Supplier  
Diversity Program, refresh its strategy, and reset priorities.  We enhanced the resources 
available to our team by enriching our data to understand our true impact on the diverse 
supplier community and how we can include these suppliers in future sourcing  
opportunities. Through increased stakeholder engagement, we increased our consolidated 
Direct and Indirect spend with certified diverse suppliers to $50MM in support of our 
revised 2025 target of $125MM (up from 75MM). We also further expanded our program 
in 2021 by joining The National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC).
DATA124
ABOUT THIS REPORT  
This 2021 Sustainability Report continues 
our commitment to transparently  
communicate our sustainability efforts.
This Report reflects our performance for the year ended December 31, 2021, 
along with prior data and information on changes to our operations, plants and 
data collection process, where relevant. This Report also references 2022 
initiatives planned at the time of publishing the Report.
To lead the collection of information and the report preparation process, we 
assembled a team representing Environmental, Health & Safety, Finance, 
Human Resources, Law, Marketing, Operations, Procurement and R&D.
For our 2021 energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) data, we have contracted with 
an independent third party, ERM CVS to evaluate and assure that our energy 
data collection process and emissions calculations are rigorous, inclusive and 
accurate. The resulting verification statement will be included with our annual 
CDP Climate Change Response.
DATA125
The Report includes disclosures recommended by the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB), the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI).
We have addressed GRI’s four Reporting Principles in defining the scope and 
content of this Report:
•   Stakeholder Inclusiveness – This Report addresses those topics that are of  
greatest interest to a broad range of stakeholders.
•   Sustainability Context –  We reference the key sustainability challenges that our 
company is facing, and how our actions and performance fit into the larger  
context; see for example our discussion of responsible sourcing and palm oil.
•  Materiality  – This Report covers our significant economic, environmental and 
social impacts.
• Completeness – We provide information on our global operations, representing 
company-wide performance throughout 2021.
Employment and Environmental, Health & Safety indicators include all our operated 
manufacturing and distribution facilities, our R&D Corporate Technical Center and 
our corporate headquarters, with select smaller scale operations excluded. For more 
information on our company, joint ventures and subsidiaries worldwide, please see 
our Annual Report on Form 10K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 on our 
corporate website (link below).
We welcome input from all stakeholders, including customers, consumers,  
shareholders, investors, nonprofit organizations, non-governmental organizations, 
neighbors and employees, who seek to help us improve our business and sustainability 
performance. Please send questions or comments about this Report to  
sustainability@churchdwight.com .
For all other inquiries, please visit www.churchdwight.com. 
DATA126
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA 
INDICATOR UNIT 2021 2020 2019 2018 GRI
ENVIRONMENTAL
Total Energy Use Thousand GJ 1,527 1,571 1,649 1,713 302-1
Electricity Thousand KWH 152,743 154,506 158,968 161,261 302-1
Natural Gas DecaTherms (US) 793,068 823,545 825,249 848,502 302-1
Propane Pounds 361,950 356,330 381,565 371,134 302-1
Gasoline Gallons 2,975 3,861 3,842 4,241 302-1
Diesel Gallons 86,262 101,784 90,592 77,831 302-1
Purchased Steam Short Tons 46,917 48,102 72,365 84,493 302-1
Energy Intensity GJ/MM LBS SHP 254 257 291 309 302-3
Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions Metric Tons CO2e 89,100 91,159 87,583 89,402 305-1
Energy indirect (Scope 2) [location based] GHG Emissions Metric Tons CO2e 68,678 69,393 74,853 80,808 305-2
Energy indirect (Scope 2) [market based] GHG Emissions Metric Tons CO2e 7,516 7,832 11,659 13,608 305-2
Total (Scope 1 and Location based Scope 2) GHG Emissions Metric Tons CO2e 157,778 160,553 162,436 170,210
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions- transport only Metric Tons CO2e 211,662 225,956 213,892 224,579 305-3
Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1+ 2 + 3) Metric Tons CO2e 369,439 386,508 376,328 394,780
GHG Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 + 2)/product shipped Metric Tons CO2e /MM LBS SHP 26 26 29 31 305-4
Total GHG Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 + 2 + 3)/product shippedMetric Tons CO2e /MM LBS 
SHP62 63 67 71 305-4
Total GHG Emissions Intensity (Scope 1 + 2 + 3)/salesMetric Tons CO2e /MM US$ 
Sales71 79 86 95 305-4
Net Water Consumption Thousand Gallons 267,962 298,350 288,533 292,033 303-5
Water Intake (Withdrawal) Thousand Gallons 470,304 495,187 509,769 506,564 303-3
Water Effluent (Discharge) Thousand Gallons 202,342 196,837 221,235 214,531 303-4DATA127
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA   (CONTINUED)
INDICATOR UNIT 2021 2020 2019 2018 GRI
ENVIRONMENTAL
Water Intake Intensity/product shipped Thousand Gallons/MM LBS SHP 78.1 81.1 90.0 91.3 303-3
Total Waste Produced Tons 62,420 59,888 57,758 61,960 306-2
Hazardous Waste Produced Tons 452 411 1,130 910 306-2
Non-hazardous Solid Waste Produced Tons 19,661 17,763 19,211 20,041 306-2
Wastewater Trucked for Offsite Disposal Tons 26,351 25,322 23,745 29,444 306-1
Recycled Non-hazardous Waste Produced Tons 15,956 16,392 13,673 11,565 306-2
Waste Produced Intensity/product shipped Tons/MM LBS SHP 10.4 9.8 10.2 11.2
Environmental Penalties US $ $1,000 $3,375 $6,500 $22,500 307-1
Total Reported Releases Total 1 1 4 3
Accidental Releases Total 0 0 3 2
Continuous Releases Total 1 1 1 1
SOCIAL
Total Employees Total 5,138 5,108 4,831 4,727 102-7
Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Total  4,101 4,098 3,833 3,766 102-7
Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) Total 1,037 1,010 998 961 102-8
Total Female Employees Percent 41 41 40 41 405-1
Total Male Employees Percent 59 59 60 59 405-1
Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred 
(DART) Rate (Global)Recordable Incidents/100 FTE 0.7  1.0 0.5 0.8 403-9DATA128
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA   (CONTINUED)
INDICATOR UNIT 2021 2020 2019 2018 GRI
ECONOMIC
Net Sales Billions $5,190.1 $4.90 $4.36 $4.15 102-7
Consumer Domestic Sales Millions $3,941.9 $3,767.6 $3,302.6 $3,129.9 102-7
Consumer International Sales Millions $912.2 $828.2 $756.3 $709.5 102-7
Specialty Products Sales Millions $336.0 $300 $298.8 $306.5 102-7
Employee Giving Fund Distributions Millions $1.2 $1.1 $1.2 $1.2 201-1
Philanthropic Foundation Distributions Millions $1.0 201-1
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-1 Name of organization Church & Dwight Co., Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Church & Dwight At A Glance
102-3 Location of headquarters Ewing, New Jersey, U.S.
102-4 Location of operations Church & Dwight At A Glance
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form Church & Dwight At A Glance
102-6 Markets served Church & Dwight At A Glance
102-7 Scale of the organization Church & Dwight At A Glance
102-8 Information on employees and other workersOur People 
Sustainability Performance Data
102-9 Supply chainResponsible Sourcing 
See pp. 7-8 of Annual Report (available at investor.churchdwight.com)GRI INDEX 
We align our sustainability reporting with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, an internationally recognized guidance for transparency in sustainability performance.
The Index below lists the GRI indicators addressed in this Report, and either includes the information directly or provides a reference to the relevant section(s) within this Report. DATA129
GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chainNo significant changes in 2021. While we acquired a new brand in 2021, 
THERABREATH, the acquisition did not include any new facilities.
102-11 Precautionary approach Products
102-12 External initiativesHow We Engage Stakeholders 
List of Trade Associations and Other Affiliations (pp 21-25) 
Responsible Sourcing
102-13 Membership in associationsHow We Engage Stakeholders 
List of Trade Associations and Other Affiliations (pp 21-25)
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviorCEO Letter  
Our Sustainability Strategy and ESG Pillars 
How We Engage Stakeholders 
Responsible Sourcing
102-18 Governance structure See the Corporate Governance section of our website
102-40 List of stakeholder groups How We Engage Stakeholders
102-41 Collective bargaining agreementsInternationally, we employ union employees in France, Mexico and New Zealand. Employees 
covered by collective bargaining agreements represent less than 1% of our total workforce. We 
believe our relations with both our union and non-union employees are satisfactory.
102-42 Selection of stakeholdersAbout This Report 
How We Engage Stakeholders
102-43 Approach to engagementAbout This Report 
How We Engage Stakeholders
102-45 Entities included in the reportOur data includes all operations under Church & Dwight control.  We have one joint venture 
(JV), The ARMAKLEEN Company, that is included in our reported data. A second JV, Armand 
Products Company, is not included because we do not have operational control.  See pp. 5-6  
of Annual Report (available at investor.churchdwight.com).DATA130
GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-46 Defining report contentOur Sustainability Strategy & ESG Pillars 
About This Report
102-47 List of material topics How We Assess Material Issues
102-48 Restatements of informationClimate Change – Metrics and Targets
Sustainability Performance Data
102-49 Significant changes in material topics and boundaries There were no significant changes in the topics and boundaries of our reporting for 2021.
102-50 Reporting period About This Report
102-51 Date of previous reportOur previous report was published in 2020 and included performance  
data for calendar year 2019.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point About This Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards, Core option.
102-55 GRI index GRI Index
102-56 External assuranceClimate Change – Metrics and Targets 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas Data VerificationDATA131
GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
103 Management approach for each material issue
Our Brands: Engaging with customers and consumers; 
integrating sustainabilityOur Brands
Products: Safe ingredients; disclosure Products
Packaging: Consumer-friendly and environmentally responsible Packaging
Employees & Communities: Diversity & inclusion, gender 
equality, employee healthEmployees and Communities
Employees & Communities: Community-enhancing 
philanthropy and outreachEmployees and Communities  
Our Brands
Responsible Sourcing: Suppliers’ environmental, labor, health 
& safety and ethical practicesResponsible Sourcing
Environment: Energy and GHGs; water and wasteClimate Change 
Environment
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
201-1 Direct economic valueChurch & Dwight At A Glance - Our Brands 
Employees and Communities  
Compensation and Benefits 
Sustainability Performance Data
201-2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities  
due to climate change Climate Change – Strategy
CDP Climate Change Response
205-2Communication and training about anti-corruption  
policies and proceduresOur Sustainability Strategy & ESG Pillars 
Responsible SourcingDATA132
GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
301-2 Recycled input materials used Packaging
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Climate Change; Energy Use  
Sustainability Performance Data
302-3 Energy intensityClimate Change; Energy Use  
Sustainability Performance Data 
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate Change; Energy Use
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Water
303-3 Water withdrawal Water Intake and Use
303-4 Water dischargeWastewater Discharges 
Sustainability Performance Data
303-5 Water consumptionWater Intake and Use 
Water Stress Risk 
Sustainability Performance Data 
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissionsClimate Change – Metrics and Targets  
Sustainability Performance Data
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissionsClimate Change – Metrics and Targets 
Sustainability Performance Data
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissionsClimate Change – Metrics and Targets 
Sustainability Performance Data
305-4 GHG emissions intensityClimate Change – Metrics and Targets 
Sustainability Performance Data
305-5 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions Climate Change – Metrics and TargetsDATA133
GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
305-7 SOx, NOx, and other air emissions Air Emissions
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Waste
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Waste
306-3 Waste generatedWaste 
Sustainability Performance Data
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Waste
306-5 Waste directed to disposalWaste 
Sustainability Performance Data
307-1 Environmental fines and sanctions2021 Citations & Penalties/Surcharges  
Sustainability Performance Data
308-2Negative environmental impacts in the  
supply chain and actions takenResponsible Sourcing – Palm Oil  
Conflict Minerals
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Workplace Safety & Health
403-2Hazard identification, risk assessment and  
incident investigationWorkplace Safety & Health
403-3 Occupational health services Workplace Safety & Health
403-4Worker participation, consultation and communication on 
occupational health and safetyWorkplace Safety & Health
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Workplace Safety Training
403-6 Promotion of worker health Workplace Safety & HealthDATA134
GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health & safety 
impacts directly linked by business relationshipsResponsible Sourcing 
Workplace Safety & Health
403-9 Work-related injuries Workplace Safety  
Sustainability Performance Data
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  
assistance programsEmployees and Communities:  
Talent and Development
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 
career development reviewsAll Church & Dwight employees receive  
an annual performance review
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Responsible Sourcing
413-1 Community engagementOur Brands
Employees and Communities
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain Responsible Sourcing
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of  
products and servicesProducts
417-2 Product and service information and labeling Products
417-3 Marketing communicationsChurch & Dwight experienced no incidents of non-compliance with regulations  
or voluntary codes regarding marketing communications in 2021.DATA135
SASB INDEX 
We are referencing the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) industry-specific sustainability accounting standards covering financially material issues. 
The table below summarizes our disclosures related to the SASB indicators for the Household and Personal Care Products category.
Many of these issues have been included in our CDP Responses and in previous years’ sustainability reports. The table below provides company-wide quantitative 
data where available, as well as references to those report sections where we address relevant sustainability topics. We are working to improve our systems to 
allow greater transparency around products and packaging data in the future.
SASB CODE METRIC/UNIT OF MEASURE REPORT SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
WATER MANAGEMENT
CG-HP-140a.1 Total water withdrawn: Thousand cubic meters (m3) 1,780 thousand cubic meters
CG-HP-140a.1 Total water consumed: Percentage (%) 57%
CG-HP-140a.1 Percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress Water, pages 109-115
CG-HP-140a.2Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies  
and practices to mitigate those risksWater, pages 109-115
PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH, AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
CG-HP-250a.1Revenue from products that contain REACH substances of  
very high concern (SVHC)We maintain systems and processes in place to ensure human and  
environmental safety of our products.  For detailed information on how 
we specifically manage the safety of our products and ingredients, see 
our disclosures beginning on page 65 of this Report.
CG-HP-250a.2Revenue from products that contain substances on the California  
DTSC Candidate Chemicals ListWe maintain systems and processes in place to ensure human and 
environmental safety of our products.  For detailed information on how 
we specifically manage the safety of our products and ingredients, see 
our disclosures beginning on page 65 of this Report.
CG-HP-250a.3Discussion of process to identify and manage emerging materials  
and chemicals of concernProducts, page 65
CG-HP-250a.4 Revenue from products designed with green chemistry principlesWe embrace many of the principles of green chemistry across our 
product innovation/development and processing efforts and continue 
to make progress.  Further information and insights on these areas can 
be found beginning on page 65 of this Report.DATA136
SASB INDEX   (CONTINUED)  
SASB CODE METRIC/UNIT OF MEASURE REPORT SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
PACKAGING LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
CG-HP-410a.1 Total weight of packaging: Metric tons Approximately 195,000 metric tons
CG-HP-410a.1 Percentage made from recycled and/or renewable materials:  Percent (%) Paperboard Sourcing, page 80
CG-HP-410a.1 Percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable: Percent (%) Approximately 84% (excluding newly-acquired brands)
CG-HP-410a.2Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of packaging  
throughout its lifecyclePackaging, pages 75-80
ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL IMPACTS OF PALM OIL SUPPLY CHAIN
CG-HP-430a.1 Amount of palm oil sourced: Metric tons 35,600 metric tons
CG-HP-430a.1Percentage certified through the Roundtable on Sustainable  
Palm Oil (RSPO) supply chains as (a) Identity Preserved, (b) Segregated,  
(c) Mass Balance, or (d) Book & claim: Percent (%)See Palm Oil section, pages 121-122
ACTIVITY METRICS
CG-HP-000.A Total weight of products sold: Metric tons Approximately 2,700,000 metric tons
CG-HP-000.B Number of manufacturing facilities 17DATA137
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES - INDEX 
The Financial Stability Board created the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to improve and increase reporting of  
climate-related financial information. The information below is our first reporting of these metrics in this Report.
TCFD REPORTING SECTION REFERENCED
Governance(a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. Climate Change: Governance  CDP C1.1
(b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing  
climate-related risks and opportunities.Climate Change: Governance CDP C1.2
Strategy(a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has 
identified over the short, medium, and long term.Climate Change: Strategy CDP C2.2, C2.3
(b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.Climate Change: Strategy  CDP C2.3, 2.4
(c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration 
different climate scenarios, including a 2-degree C or lower scenario.Climate Change: Strategy CDP C3.1
Risk Management(a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing  
climate-related risks.Climate Change: Risk Management CDP C2.2
(b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. Climate Change: Risk Management  CDP C2.2
(c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related 
risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.Climate Change: Risk Management CDP C1.1, C2.2
Metrics and Targets(a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks  
and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.Climate Change: Metrics and Targets CDP C4.1, C4.2
(b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions,  
and the related risks.Climate Change: Metrics and Targets CDP C6, C2.2, C2.3
(c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage  
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.Climate Change: Metrics and Targets CDP C4.1, C4.2DATA138
2021 EEO-1 DATA
The following table presents the consolidated data submitted to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEO-1 survey results) for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2021, which is the most recent annual data currently available.
Please note that these prescribed categories are different from how we organize our workforce and our jobs and how we apply our inclusion and diversity objectives and 
initiatives. We organize our workforce to meet the specific needs of our business. Also, our inclusion and diversity initiatives are global, while the EEO-1 is solely U.S.-focused.
JOB 
CATEGORIESHispanic or LatinoNon-Hispanic or Latino
Overal
TotalsMale Female
Male Female WhiteBlack or  
African 
America nNative  
Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
IslanderAsianAmerican 
Indian or  
Alaska  
NativeTwo or  
More  
RacesWhiteBlack or  
African 
America nNative  
Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
IslanderAsianAmerican 
Indian or  
Alaska  
NativeTwo or  
More  
Races
Exec/Sr. Officials & Mgrs 6 1 90 2 0 3 0 0 34 2 0 3 0 0 141
First/Mid Officials & Mgrs 15 10 243 11 2 11 0 5 148 19 0 22 0 3 489
Professionals 21 28 242 21 0 52 2 4 240 24 0 52 2 7 695
Technicians 9 3 57 6 0 5 1 3 44 27 0 5 0 0 160
Sales Workers 3 3 48 0 0 0 0 1 31 0 0 0 0 0 86
Administrative Support 5 24 41 4 0 7 0 3 170 11 2 22 4 3 296
Craft Workers 21 0 192 5 0 4 2 2 2 1 0 0 0 0 229
Operatives 183 96 703 111 14 26 5 21 213 32 4 22 1 11 1442
Laborers & Helpers 24 65 167 24 8 18 1 4 72 53 7 34 2 2 481
Service Workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 287 230 1783 184 24 126 11 43 954 169 13 160 9 26 4019
Previous Year Total 270 215 1712 184 19 119 9 41 916 173 9 149 10 26 3852SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT2021