 CREATING A  
SUSTAINABLE
 FUTURE
2016  
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Church & Dwight Co., Inc.
2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  2  
CHURCH & DWIGHT  is a top-tier consumer products company that 
has a long heritage of sustainability. Since our beginning in 1846, our products 
have been a standard of quality and environmental responsibility. In the late 
19th century, we supported educational programs to expand public awareness 
of wildlife conservation. Beginning in the early 20th century, we began using 
recycled paperboard in our product packaging. In 1970, we were the only 
corporate sponsor of the first Earth Day. We introduced the first phosphate-free 
laundry detergent in the United States in the early 1970s. In 2009, we designed and 
built a state-of-the-art liquid laundry manufacturing plant in the United States, achieving  
a LEED silver certification. 
Our sustainability program is based on four pillars: our products, employees, operations and communities.  
In 2016, we have made improvements within each pillar: 
Our Products  are highly effective and safe and earn Church & Dwight the trust and loyalty of our 
consumers. From the earliest design stages to the end of consumer use, we strive to improve the safety and reduce the environmental impact of our product formulations and packaging. In 2016, we continued along this 
path and expanded our offerings of highly concentrated unit dose laundry detergent pods, which use reduced 
amounts of water and packaging. 
Our Employees  are our company’s most important asset. We view our sustainability program as a 
critical component in attracting, retaining and engaging talented people who share our values.  We provide all employees with equal opportunity employment and the resources for career development and continued 
success. In 2016, we launched new online and offline training courses and learning opportunities, including 
programs specifically targeted to middle managers to develop their management skills and careers. 
Our Operations  have an excellent environmental and safety compliance record and strive for 
continuous improvement of our environmental footprint. The safety of our employees is very important to us. In 2016, we maintained our excellent safety record. We recognize that our operations have an impact on the 
environment and climate and are committed to seeking opportunities to promote recycling efforts throughout 
the organization. In 2016, we recycled 24,500,000 pounds of material from our global operations that would 
have been destined for disposal facilities such as landfills. T o offset our carbon dioxide emissions from our 
operations, we entered into agreements with the Arbor Day Foundation and for the purchase of renewable 
energy credits for green energy to support our goal of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 
2025. We operate in many parts of the world following our Global Operations Guiding Principles that reflect 
our commitment to internationally recognized standards for human rights, protection of the environment, and safe working conditions. We require our suppliers to follow our lead and follow the same Guiding Principles 
and have launched a 2017 program to audit and hold our suppliers accountable to those standards.LETTER 
FROM  THE CEO
REDUCE  
GREENHOUSE  
GAS EMISSIONS20%   
BY 2025
2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  3  
Our Communities  are important to us. From its 
inception in 2005, the Employee Giving Fund, one of our 
workplace giving programs, has provided an outstanding 
opportunity for our employees and the Company to give 
back to, and engage with charitable organizations. Through 
2016, the EGF has awarded over 1,500 grants totaling almost 
$9 million to charitable organizations. In 2016, in addition to 
volunteer contributions of time, the Employee Giving Fund 
awarded $1.2 million to 179 organizations. These contributions 
are in addition to the many giving programs at our plant locations including product donations, school supplies and monetary donations. 
In 2016, we strengthened our sustainability governance and reporting. We established a Corporate Issues 
Council to integrate sustainability into all aspects of our business. We engage with stakeholders; monitor, 
prioritize, and address evolving standards and stakeholder requirements; allocate resources to appropriately 
address sustainability priorities and report on progress toward our sustainability goals. The Council is 
comprised of senior leaders representing all functions. Our Board of Directors, through its Governance 
& Nominating Committee, now oversees our sustainability program. In 2016, we reported to the Carbon 
Disclosure Project our carbon dioxide emissions and the use of palm oil and its derivatives. Our 2016 
Sustainability Report is closely aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Reporting Standards. 
Protecting consumers, employees, the environment and the 
communities in which we operate is the responsibility of every good corporate citizen. We view that responsibility as a privilege and intend to do our part.  
 
Matthew T . Farrell 
President and Chief Executive Officer$1.2+  
MILLION  
TO 179 ORGANIZATIONSTHE GIVING FUND 
AWARDED
T able of Contents
ABOUT CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC  5
SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH  6
OUR PRODUCTS  10
OUR EMPLOYEES 13
OUR OPERATIONS  16
OUR COMMUNITIES 26
ABOUT THIS REPORT  30
GRI INDEX  31
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA  34
2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  4 Founded in 1846,  
Church & Dwight Co., Inc. is the leading 
U.S. producer of sodium bicarbonate, 
commonly known as baking soda. Our 
flagship ARM & HAMMER™ brand, along 
with eight other “Power Brands,” makes 
Church & Dwight one of the fastest 
growing consumer packaged goods 
companies in the U.S. 
Over the past 15 years, we have expanded from an almost exclusively 
U.S. business to a global company. Outside of the U.S., in 2016 we 
had operations in eight countries – Canada, Mexico, the United 
Kingdom, France, Australia, Brazil, China and New Zealand. We export 
to more than 100 other countries and in 2016, approximately 15% of 
sales were outside of the U.S. 
Our global business encompasses a wide range of personal care 
and household cleaning products. Our expanding export business 
consists primarily of personal care products, which are sold in the 
Caribbean, Eastern Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Our Specialty Products business manufactures bulk sodium bicarbonate and 
animal productivity products for the dairy and poultry industries. 
With the exception of the December 2016 acquisition of ANUSOL 
and RECTINOL brands from Johnson & Johnson, Inc., there were no 
acquisitions or divestitures in 2016 which would have had an impact 
on the data within this report. Headquartered 
IN EWING, NJ
2016 net sales of
$3,493  
MILLION4,500  
EMPLOYEES
2016 TOTAL  
SHAREHOLDER RETURN  
5.7%PUBLICLY 
TRADED ON NEW 
YORK STOCK 
EXCHANGE (CHD)
BUSINESS SEGMENT
CONSUMER DOMESTIC 
Household and personal care products 
2016 Net Sales: $2,678M
CONSUMER INTERNATIONAL 
Primarily personal care products for international markets 
2016 Net Sales: $525M
SPECIALTY PRODUCTS 
Animal productivity products and bulk sodium  bicarbonate products 2016 Net Sales: $290MPOWER BRANDS:ABOUT  
CHURCH &  
DWIGHT CO., INC. 
2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  5 2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  6 
Church & Dwight’s continued 
healthy growth is entirely predicated on the trust of 
our stakeholders including 
customers, consumers, employees, suppliers, investors, regulators, and communities. 
It is this trust that has allowed 
us to thrive over the course of our company’s history. Building and retaining that trust is at the 
foundation of our approach to 
sustainability. 
Church & Dwight sustainability focus areas are included within the 
following four pillars:
Our Products: We make safe, high-quality products that bring value to our 
customers and consumers. Our Employees: We attract and retain top talent by offering a great work 
environment.
 Our Operations: We run a sustainable business and pursue continual 
improvement in ethical, environmental, and safety performance.Our Communities: We strengthen the communities where our employees 
and consumers live and where we operate.
Employee Summer Games
Employee Summer GamesSUSTAINABILITY 
APPROACH2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  7  
Sustainability Governance  
This 2016 Sustainability Report is closely aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative’s reporting framework. 
As our product portfolio has become more diverse and the sustainability issues we face more complex, our 
sustainability governance has evolved to become more comprehensive and collaborative. T o ensure sustainability 
is integrated into all parts of our business and to drive continuous improvement in our sustainability approach and 
performance, in 2016, we established a Corporate Issues Council. The Council is comprised of senior executives 
and other leaders representing functional areas across the enterprise. The Council takes the lead in defining 
and implementing our sustainability strategies concerning ingredients, packaging, environmental impacts, 
and human rights and labor conditions in our operations and supply chain. Its duties include ensuring that we 
engage with stakeholders; monitor, prioritize, and address evolving standards and stakeholder requirements; allocate resources to appropriately address sustainability issues; and report on our progress to drive continuous 
improvement in our sustainability approach and performance. 
We have  adopted Global Operations Guiding Principles as part of our Responsible Sourcing Program. They 
reflect our commitment to internationally recognized human rights and social standards in our supply chain.  
They apply to all of our employees and suppliers and are available under the “Corporate Governance” heading 
on the Investors page of our website at www.churchdwight.com.
Our Board’s and its committees’ risk oversight activities are focused on management’s risk assessment and 
management processes, as well as on our ethics and compliance program, with support from our Internal 
Audit Department. This process is designed to identify and rank the most significant risks that affect our Company, including the risks generally associated with companies in the consumer products industry. Those 
risks include sustainability.
In 2016, we strengthened our commitment to transparency regarding sustainability issues, as well as, our 
sustainability commitments to ensure meaningful future progress. We reported to the Carbon Disclosure 
Project our carbon dioxide emissions from global operations and the use of palm oil and its derivatives within 
the supply chain. 
Materiality  
The Global Reporting Initiative defines material issues as those that “have a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental or social value for itself, its 
stakeholders and society at large.”  Defining our material issues is a continuous process. Our Corporate Issues 
Council conducted a comprehensive materiality analysis of the most significant sustainability issues, risks and 
opportunities facing Church & Dwight and the functions within the Company that should be accountable for 
them. The Council considered issues our stakeholders have expressed as their priorities and ranked various 
risks and opportunities on a survey to show relative impact and likelihood. Our most significant sustainability 
issues, risks and opportunities are reflected within each of the four pillars of our sustainability program as set 
forth in this Report. There are additional topics included in this report that may not have reached the same level of materiality.  
Employees clearing local hiking trailSUSTAINABILITY 
APPROACH2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  8  
Stakeholder Engagement  
We regularly receive communications and inquiries from our various stakeholders regarding our sustainability 
practices. While management has primary responsibility for stockholder engagement, our Board of Directors 
is regularly informed about management’s stockholder engagement efforts as part of its oversight role and 
is committed to enhancing stockholder value and to considering requests and inquiries from our stockholders 
that will help us achieve this goal. Our stockholder engagement practices and controls, which are designed 
to support our commitment to constructive communications between our stockholders and the non-
management directors, include the ability to submit stockholder proposals and recommend candidates for 
election to our Board and the ability to communicate directly with our Board of Directors.
Our Independent Lead Director acts as a contact person to facilitate communications between employees, 
stockholders and others with the non-management directors. The Lead Director, who is also Chair 
of the Governance & Nominating Committee, is responsible for ensuring that stockholder requests, 
recommendations and proposals regarding governance-related matters of the Board are evaluated by that 
Committee, the Compensation & Organization Committee or Audit Committee, as appropriate, and then by 
our Board of Directors based on the applicable Committee’s recommendation. 
In 2017 , our Board has begun to oversee the sustainability program and communications from our stockholders 
regarding sustainability practices through the Governance &  Nominating Committeee. In 2017 , we revised our Global 
Operations Guiding Principles and took other measures described in this report to strengthen our Responsible Sourcing Program, based on collaborative communications with a group of stockholders and our review of requirements of various customers.  We have also improved our processes for efficiently and accurately responding 
to inquiries from our stakeholders.
We  work with our local communities to address concerns as a result of our operations. We engage through multiple 
channels, including this report, our filings with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission, our website, and one-on-one 
communications. For example, in 2016, we reported our carbon 
dioxide emissions from global operations and the use of palm oil 
and its derivatives to the Carbon Disclosure Project
1, a not-for-profit organization that operates a global disclosure 
system for users to manage their environmental impact.     
Employees making bag lunches
1.  CDP is a registered trademark of the Carbon Disclosure Project www.cdp.net/enSUSTAINABILITY 
APPROACH2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  9  
Community Gardens - IslesSUSTAINABILITY 
APPROACH
2. Product Care is a registered trademark of CSPA www.cspa.org/sustainability/product-care-stewardship  
3.  Responsible Care  is a registered trademark of the American Chemistry Council  
responsiblecare.americanchemistry.com
4. ACI is a registered trademark of the American Cleaning Institute www.cleaninginstitute.org Product Care®2 We are a member of Product Care, the Consumer Specialty 
Products Association’s (CSPA) product stewardship program. Through Product 
Care, we participate in training sessions and mentor relationships with other 
member companies. T ogether with CSPA, we are currently developing industry-wide management principles across seven product life cycle areas, ranging from 
product design to anticipated disposal needs.
Responsible Care®3 Through our Specialty Products Division (SPD) 
Specialty Chemicals Group, we actively participate in Responsible Care, the American Chemistry Council’s voluntary program to help companies manage their 
environmental impacts, health and safety, and security performance beyond U.S. 
environmental and safety regulations and standards. SPD applies the Responsible 
Care Management System (RCMS) which is a structured approach to improving 
company performance in community awareness and emergency response; security; 
distribution; employee health and safety; pollution prevention; and process and 
product safety. In addition, for customer stakeholder engagement, a semi-annual 
customer satisfaction survey is distributed and results evaluated for opportunities to  improve. The survey includes questions related to the elements of Responsible 
Care. In 2016, our SPD operations in Old Fort, Ohio underwent a third-party audit that 
confirmed and re-certified its adherence with the RCMS technical standards.  
The American Cleaning Institute (ACI)®4 is the home of the 
U.S. Cleaning Products Industry, representing producers of household, industrial, and 
institutional cleaning products, their ingredients and finished packaging, oleochemical 
producers, and chemical distributors to the cleaning product industry. The American 
Cleaning Institute was established in 1926, and its members have engaged in “social 
sustainability” efforts long before that terminology came into being. T oday, member 
companies continue to be passionate about their work to create products that 
provide hygiene and cleanliness, in a manner that is environmentally sound, socially 
responsible and economically viable, without compromising the ability of future 
generations to meet their needs. As an ACI member company we are committed to the mission to drive sustainability improvements across our industry and throughout 
our supply chain.  We connect with stakeholders through industry groups, associations and coalitions, 
including the following: 
2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  10 
Our ultimate goal is to delight our customers and consumers with high-
quality, affordable products. We endeavor to do this by continually challenging ourselves to identify and develop products with new and distinctive features 
that meet ever-changing consumer needs and preferences. 
Product Safety 
We have strict policies and procedures in place to ensure our products and packaging are safe for consumer 
use. With the guidance of toxicologists, trade associations, and external scientific experts, we actively monitor 
the latest science on any emerging chemicals of risk. Based on this guidance, as warranted, we develop action 
plans to remove any chemical of concern present in any of the products we market. 
Some of our products are subject to regulation by one or more U.S. agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Federal T rade Commission (FTC) and the 
Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) in addition to foreign agencies.  Our activities also are regulated 
by various agencies of the countries, states, provinces and other localities in which the Company sells its products. 
The CPSC administers the Poison Prevention Packaging Act, and has issued regulations requiring special 
child resistant packaging for certain products, including pharmaceuticals, dietary supplements, and dietary substances, containing certain ingredients (e.g., iron). 
FDA regulations govern a variety of matters relating to the products, such as product development, 
manufacturing, premarket clearance or approval, advertising and distribution.  The regulations adopted and 
standards imposed by the FDA and similar foreign agencies evolve over time and can require us to make 
changes in our manufacturing processes and quality systems to remain in compliance.  These agencies 
periodically inspect manufacturing and other facilities.  If we fail to comply with applicable regulations and 
standards, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines and penalties, the recall of products and cessation 
of manufacturing and/or distribution.  
In addition, we sell products that 
are subject to regulation under 
the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide 
and Rodenticide Act and the T oxic 
Substances Control Act, both of 
which are administered by the 
EPA.  We are subject to regulation 
by the FTC in connection with 
the content of our labeling, 
advertising, promotion, trade practices and other matters.OUR 
PRODUCTS2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  11  
Four-Step Safety Assurance Process  
Our product safety assurance process follows four steps:
1.  Ingredient Selection: We evaluate the safety of each ingredient at its proposed concentration level, 
using various regulatory lists, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Safer Choice Ingredient 
list as a benchmark.
2.  Ingredient/ Finished Product Evaluation: We determine potential human exposure and evaluate the safety of proposed ingredients/product under normal use and reasonably foreseeable misuse conditions.
3.  Pre-market Safety Clearance: We develop a pre-market safety dossier on the finished product to  ensure that applicable safety criteria are met prior to manufacture and prior to shipment to customers.
4.  Post-market Evaluation: We conduct post-market surveillance and gather customer and  
consumer feedback.
Fragrance and Flavor Safety  
Fragrances and flavors are important to our consumers, so we take care to tailor our products to consumer preferences, while also assuring that all ingredients used to create these attributes are safe. We design all 
fragrance mixtures to comply with the safety standards set by the International Fragrance Association and 
all flavor mixtures to those of the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers Association and the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration. We also conduct comprehensive safety reviews on all fragrances used, based on expected 
patterns of consumer use. As existing fragrance and flavor ingredients come under regulatory scrutiny, we 
revise current products to comply with the new guidelines. For example, in 2016, 45 fragrance and flavor 
revisions were made to meet more stringent guidelines. Additionally, we specially manufacture mild and 
fragrance-free products for consumers with sensitive skin.   
Product Environmental Sustainability  
From the earliest design stages to the end of consumer use, we explore ways to reduce the environmental 
impacts of our product formulation and packaging. Our Evergreen Goals include: 
• Optimizing product and package design to reduce materials,
•  Removing, reducing and restricting the use of materials that may present human 
health or environmental toxicity risk,
•  Sourcing sustainably, maximizing the use of recycled and sustainably sourced 
materials, and
•  Supporting recycling by designing with recyclable materials and communicating recyclability.OUR 
PRODUCTS2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  12  
In 2016, we continued along the product environmental 
sustainability path. We expanded our offerings of highly concentrated unit dose laundry detergent pods which 
saves water in the manufacturing process and reduce the amount of packaging used relative to traditional liquid 
laundry detergent products. We have a long standing policy to not develop new packages with PVC and have 
eliminated virtually all PVC from existing packaging. We use corrugated containers that are sustainably sourced, 
contain 35% recycled fiber and are completely recyclable.  
In 2017 , we look to further increase the percent of recycled materials in 
our packages as well as further increase package recyclability. T o this end, we are working with the Sustainable Packaging Coalition to support 
recycling through improved on-pack communication with the addition of 
How2Recycle labels on packages. We are also working to develop innovative ways to reuse or recycle pre- and post- consumer waste that has been normally considered non-recyclable.  
Product Disclosure
 
We devote significant attention and care to transparently disclosing key ingredient and safety information 
for our products. Safety Data Sheets (SDS) for our products are available on our website. In order to ensure 
the highest levels of transparency and worker safety, Church and Dwight is converting SDS’s to the current 
Canadian WHMIS standard which provides more information than required by U.S. federal regulations. We 
disclose ingredients in all our products in accordance with the relevant U.S. federal regulations, and continue 
to work towards full ingredient transparency. T o that end, all formulated consumer products will have online 
ingredient disclosures, including allergen information and our full fragrance palette by the end of 2017 .
Safer Choice Partnership  
In 2015, Church &  Dwight’s ARM &  HAMMER™ BioEnzyme Power Liquid Laundry Detergent was awarded the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Safer Choice certification that marks the product as a leader in environmental and personal safety. As the U.S. EPA expands the Safer Choice program to more product 
categories, we will look to earn this certification for additional products. OUR 
PRODUCTS2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  13 
The power behind our company 
is our employees. We strive to hire the right people for the 
right jobs to take our company 
to ever higher levels of financial and sustainability performance. Church & Dwight prides itself in 
fostering a culture that values 
and encourages collaboration, honesty, accountability, respect, continuous learning and our 
sustainability commitment. We 
do so by the following model: 
•  We are an S& P 500 company with the freedom of a small, relatively flat organization 
offering maximum flexibility and speed in decision-making.
• A sense of ownership enables us to focus on sustaining top-tier performance.
•  Open communication among departments, functions and employees which facilitates 
open and candid conversations.
•  Acceptance of honest open failure creates an environment that encourages action and 
informed risk-taking, and avoids complacency.
•  Participative management means everyone at every level at every location is engaged 
in the business and can make a direct impact on it.
•  Learning from both our successes and failures is a critical factor in competing, and 
winning, in the marketplace.
•  Mutual respect allows us to challenge each other to reach higher, and form an ever 
more cohesive team.
At Church &  Dwight, we are committed to ensuring that all our employees have the opportunity, tools 
and resources to develop their careers. We recognize our employees’ contributions by giving increased 
responsibilities and opportunities for success. Employees can gain valuable experience by participating in 
cross-functional projects or assignments to help them broaden their skills and diversify their career experience. Additionally, an internal job posting system notifies employees of new career opportunities as they arise. 
Employee making bag lunchesSpecial Olympics NJOUR 
EMPLOYEES  Training & Development  
We regularly conduct employee engagement surveys. The 2015 survey, which had a nearly 90% response 
rate, showed strong levels of engagement in our organization. A company-wide theme that emerged from 
the 2015 employee engagement survey was a desire for more training and development opportunities. We 
conducted additional research to determine the type of training resources needed. Based on those results, in 
2016 we developed enhanced and blended training offerings that include new online and offline courses and 
learning opportunities. One program is specifically targeted to middle managers to enable them to grow their 
skills, capabilities and careers at Church & Dwight. This new offering Leadership Empowerment Achievement 
Program (LEAP), which we launched in 2017 , complements an existing training catalogue of more than 1,000 
online and in-person courses. Our tuition reimbursement program and our enterprise-wide commitment to provide on-the-job training continue to improve our greatest asset, our employees.
2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  14 Shopping for food pantriesOUR 
EMPLOYEES  2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  15  
Workplace Safety  
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace, for all employees and visitors to our facilities. 
This commitment is evident by active employee safety committees at each of our global operations. Within 
these committees, employee representatives of all levels can freely raise and discuss safety concerns for 
appropriate action. The most important measure we use to evaluate our safety performance is the “Global Days 
Away, Restricted, or T ransferred” (DART) rate. As noted in the chart below, our Global DART rate and associated 
accidents for our global operations continues on a favorable downward trend and remains well below the 
relevant industry benchmark (BM Manufacturing) during a time of significant growth for the company.1
Workplace Safety Audits  
Church & Dwight implements a safety auditing program for adherence to local, state and federal safety 
regulations. These audits are conducted annually for global operations by third-party consultants, enforcing a rigorous assessment of regulatory standards, internal procedures, and program performance. Audit 
assessments and inspections which are scored, currently showing high levels of compliance in our operations. 
The auditing program directs further improvements in safety programs and confirms the Company’s 
commitment to best management practices and principles.    
Safety-related Regulatory Action  
Safety regulators have made written inquiries at several locations in 2016, however, no findings or penalties resulted from these inquiries. However, our Victorville, California detergent plant experienced one on-site 
inspection in which two minor violations were noted and immediately corrected. A minor penalty of $840.00 
was issued.HomeFront Holiday Dinner
1.   The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 
defines Benchmark Manufacturing 
as: food; beverage and tobacco 
product; textile mills; textile product mills; apparel; leather and applied 
product; wood product; paper; 
printing and related support activities; petroleum and coal 
products; chemical; plastics and 
rubber products; nonmetallic mineral product; primary metal; 
fabricated metal product; machinery; 
computer and electronic product; electrical equipment, appliance, 
and component; transportation 
equipment; furniture and related product; miscellaneous.4.0
3.02.01.0
0.0
GLOBAL DART Rate3.13.6
2.2
2005 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Global DART Rate 3.1 1.7 1.6 1.2 1.3 1.0
 BM Manufacturing 3.6 2.3 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.21.068% drop in Global DART 
rate since 2005OUR 
EMPLOYEES  FPO
2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  16 
We are committed to managing 
our operations in a responsible and sustainable manner.  
By upholding high ethical standards, continually 
evaluating our environmental impact, creating 
a safe workplace, and vigilantly maintaining 
our commitment to responsible sourcing, we 
have held our position as a trusted provider of 
household, personal care, and specialty products 
for over 170 years. 
We conduct risk-based supplier audits against ISO Quality Standards and Food Safety Standards. Audits are conducted 
by our Quality Department and supplemented, as needed, by independent third parties.
Responsible Sourcing  
Our supply chain is a significant part of our business and more than half of Church &  Dwight employees support its 
day-to-day operations. We directly source from numerous suppliers, the majority of which are located in North America. 
All of our employees and suppliers are expected to comply with our Global Operations Guiding Principles, which were 
developed based on the principles of internationally recognized human rights and labor conditions and reflect our commitment to sustainable operations. They are substantially aligned with the United Nations Declaration on Human 
Rights, the International Labor Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the 
Labor Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. They are also substantially aligned with the Ethical T rading 
Initiative Base Code and the California T ransparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010, which requires manufacturers doing 
business in California to disclose their efforts to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their direct supply chains. 
The Global Operations Guiding Principles are included or incorporated into our supplier agreements.  
Based on extensive 2016 benchmarking  in 2017 , we are launching a Responsible Sourcing Program that reflects our 
commitment to internationally recognized industry expectations, while remaining commercially reasonable in our 
approach. We gather and analyse data relating to our suppliers’ practices utilizing independent social audit firms to 
audit certain of our higher potential risk raw material and component suppliers and contract manufacturers to ensure 
their compliance with our Guiding Principles. Risk will be determined based on country of origin, material or product 
provided and other relevant factors.     
Any supplier found to be in violation of the Guiding Principles is subject to corrective action which may include 
termination of business. We are developing a new training program for applicable employees and management regarding the Global Operations Guiding Principles. This new program supplements training provided to all 
employees with respect to our Code of Conduct. Our training program addresses ethical business practices as 
detailed in our code of conduct and  compliance with applicable laws, including those prohibiting slavery and human 
trafficking. Any violation of applicable laws, our Code of Conduct or the Guiding Principles by a Church &  Dwight 
employee may result in disciplinary action, including termination of the employee.OUR 
OPERATIONS  
2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  17  
Palm Oil  
While Church &  Dwight does not directly buy or use palm oil or palm kernel oil in our products, some of our 
products, including animal feed, liquid laundry detergents, gummy vitamins, oral care and feminine care products 
include palm oil derivatives. We recognize the palm oil industry has a significant impact on biodiversity, climate 
change, people and communities. We, therefore, strive to responsibly source palm oil derivatives in a manner 
which does not contribute to deforestation of high conservation value and high carbon stock forests and 
peatlands or exploitation of people and local communities. 
Although Church &  Dwight’s use of palm oil derivatives is relatively low, we are committed to responsibly sourcing 
palm oil ingredients. In 2016 we purchased virtually all of our approximately 55,000 tons of palm oil derivatives 
from one supplier, who is a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). As of December 31, 2016, approximately  96% of our palm oil derivative volume received from that supplier was independently 
verified as traceable back to the mills according to our primary supplier’s supply chain mapping. That supplier 
has also represented to us that all such palm oil derivatives have been produced in conformance with its “No 
Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation Policy.” Based on our primary supplier’s representations, we expect 
to trace all of that supplier’s palm oil derivative volume purchased by us to the mills by 2020. In addition, we 
have expanded our Palm Oil Sustainable Sourcing Commitment to more thoroughly address issues relating 
to deforestation, peatland protection and exploitation of workers in palm oil production. Our new and more 
comprehensive commitment expands the scope of our sourcing of palm oil derivatives from suppliers that 
demonstrate compliance with the following specific sourcing practices: 
•  Do not contribute to deforestation by conserving and protecting primary and secondary 
forests, High Carbon Stock5 and High Conservation Value6 forests across all of their 
landholdings;
• Commit to no new development on peatlands, regardless of depth;
• Use best management practices7 for existing palm oil plantations on peat soils;
• Prohibit the use of fire for preparation or clearing of land areas;• Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and existing operations;  
• Comply with existing RSPO Principles and Criteria or other equivalent standards; 
• No exploitation of rights of indigenous peoples and local communities.
5. High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests as defined at http://highcarbonstock.org by the HCS Steering Group  
6. High Conservation Value (HCV) as defined by the HCV network: https://www.hcvnetwork.org/about-hcvf/the-sixhigh-conservation-values.  
7.   Best management practices covered by the “RSPO Manual on Best Management Practices (BMPs) for existing oil palm cultivation  on peat.”
NO  
DEFORESTATION  
NO PEAT  
NO   
EXPLOITATION   POLICY
OUR 
OPERATIONS  2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  18  
We require our primary supplier to meet or exceed the standards set forth in their No Deforestation, No 
Peat, No Exploitation Policy, provide quarterly reports regarding its supply chain mapping and progress 
reports against the commitments set forth in its policy and meet or exceed RSPO standards for RSPO 
certification.   From time to time we may also further investigate various other approaches and tools 
that may be available to help us assess our supply chain. Due to the complexity of the palm oil derivative 
supply chain, the process of achieving traceability involves a number of companies at many tiers. Because 
our greatest opportunity to influence the supply chain is through our partnerships with our suppliers, our 
objective of achieving traceability to the mills by 2020 is subject to change based on the progress of our 
suppliers.  In addition to full traceability to mills, we support and encourage suppliers to achieve as much 
traceability to the plantations as possible and to comply with RSPO standards as they evolve.
Conflict Minerals  
We are committed to ensuring that our products do not contain conflict minerals that have funded armed 
groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country. Any supplier found to be in violation 
of our policies is subject to corrective action which may include termination of business.
Managing for Environmental Sustainability and Safety  
It is essential for us to make great products and to produce them in facilities with robust environmental, 
health, and safety performance. We work toward this high-performance culture by adherence to well 
established principles defined in the company environmental and safety policies. These policies guide 
the Company’s environmental and safety practices and expectations and are implemented through the 
following approach:  
Accountability –  Each of our facilities has a designated on-site environmental and safety coordinator 
responsible for monitoring and managing environmental and safety issues affecting their facility. These 
coordinators are closely networked to enable peer mentorship and best practice sharing across facilities.
Audits and Inspections – Each of our facilities undergoes a third-party conducted safety audit each 
year and a third-party conducted environmental audit every other year. All facilities also undergo periodic, 
unannounced inspections by federal, state, and local environmental agencies. 
Awareness – We offer regular training for all  our manufacturing employees to promote awareness of 
environmental and safety practices and procedures. This includes an annual Environmental and Safety 
Conference for facility environmental and safety coordinators. 
Awards – In 2016, we recognized our Lakewood, NJ facility for its exemplary environmental performance 
and safety practices resulting in a DART rate below benchmarks and a continued decrease in workers’ 
compensation costs. In addition, projects were implemented to reduce the facility’s overall energy use and 
preventative measures to achieve improvements in the overall safety and environmental programs.OUR 
OPERATIONS  2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  19  
Environmental Sustainability  
We have experienced a significant growth of our business through organic growth and acquisitions and we 
anticipate growth to continue in the coming years. A growing business provides the challenge of managing 
its environmental footprint and minimizing impacts of our expanding operations. T o manage this, we 
rely upon our employees’ strong implementation of our environmental policy objectives. In addition, we 
regularly evaluate our primary impact metrics (regulatory compliance, energy use, water use, and waste 
generation) and take necessary actions across the company to optimize our operations.
Citations & Penalties/Surcharges  
All facilities undergo periodic, unannounced inspections by federal, state, and local environmental agencies. In 2016, there were 26 such inspections conducted at our plants, which resulted in five minor citations. 
We received two citations as a result of self-reported non-compliance issues.  Corrective actions were 
immediately implemented for all instances. One of the citations, for a production related nonhazardous 
product discharge to the local wastewater authority, resulted in a $17 ,232 surcharge. A second citation for  
an administrative deficiency in a spill plan resulted in a $2,800 penalty. The remaining citations were resolved without any penalty being issued.
A subsidiary of our Specialty Products Division in Brazil (QGN) operated an inorganic salt manufacturing 
plant which began site operations in the late 1970s. In 2009, QGN was advised by the environmental authority that the plant was discharging contaminants into an adjacent creek. After learning of the 
discharge, QGN took immediate action to cease the discharge, initiated a site investigation and remediation 
of the property and ultimately a cessation of the site operations. In December 2010, the agency proposed a 
penalty to QGN which was settled and paid in 2016 for the amount of $1.1MM. 
Spills/Releases to the Environment  
We monitor and report on spills and releases to the environment. This includes monitoring our Colonial Heights, VA plant, which, as a result of the manufacturing process, releases ammonia to the atmosphere on 
a consistent basis each year. While these releases are in compliance with air pollution control regulations, 
we are evaluating alternatives to ammonia-based technologies and potential operational improvements in 
order to limit the releases. 
We had three minor reportable accidental releases in 2016. T wo involved wastewater discharges, one tank 
overflow and one broken sewer line and the third was a production related discharge of a non-hazardous 
product release to the local wastewater authority. The releases were promptly reported to the appropriate 
state or local environmental regulatory agency. Immediate response and clean up actions were taken and corrective measures were put in place to prevent such releases in the future. None of these incidents 
caused adverse impacts to public health or the environment. OUR 
OPERATIONS  2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  20  
Environmental Remediation  
In 2016, there was limited activity requiring environmental remediation of Church &  Dwight properties 
and the only material activity was in the continued closure and remediation at QGN, a wholly owned C& D 
subsidiary.  These closure and remediation activities are summarized below. 
Feira de Santana, Brazil  
As noted in the Citations &  Penalties/Surcharges previous section, there are ongoing remediation efforts 
at the closed QGN subsidiary in Brazil. The remediation efforts were for the control and capture of 
contaminated groundwater and included the start of construction of a groundwater interceptor trench in 
October 2016.  The trench is approximately 250 feet in length and construction will be completed in 2017 . 
T otal spend in 2016 was $356,126.
Itapura, Brazil  
The mining operations that supported the inorganic salt manufacturing operation for QGN is undergoing 
closure activity. The remediation efforts related to mine closure activity includes earthwork (reshaping and 
grading) and re-vegetation of the slopes of the mine. T otal spend in 2016 was $1,850,000. 
Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions  
In 2014, we established a goal to reduce our GHG emissions by 20%, normalized to million pounds of product shipped, by 2025, using 2013 as a baseline. The GHG goal, which includes emissions from both 
our manufacturing operations and shipping operations, equates to a normalized reduction of more than 
18 tons of CO2e per million pounds of product shipped. In 2016 we reviewed and finalized a roadmap to 
achieve our 2025 GHG goal. While the roadmap will include additional efficiency projects at plants and in 
transportation, these improvements alone are not expected to produce the 20% reduction. As a result, in 
2016 we embraced new efforts to improve our carbon footprint through:  
•  Reduce – our overall consumption of energy from our operations  
and transportation.
•  Recycle – continue the successful recycling efforts at all operations.
• Renew – support the generation of clean green energy. 
• Replenish – plant trees to offset our carbon dioxide emissions.OUR 
OPERATIONS  
ENERGY  PROJECTS    
 REDUCED   
CARBON DIOXIDE  
EMISSIONS BY  
 3,000    TONS ANNUALLY2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  21  
Reduce  
Starting in 2014 and continuing through 2016 we assessed a number of our facilities  
for opportunities to reduce energy usage and associated carbon dioxide emissions. 
During that time period we identified and implemented eleven specific GHG reduction 
projects involving equipment, and lighting upgrades, spent approximately $1.3MM 
in capital and reduced energy usage the equivalent of 3,000 tons of carbon dioxide 
emissions by annually. In addition, we continually look for opportunities to increase the 
use of intermodal for product transportation noting that rail transportation is 4 times 
more energy efficient than truck.
Recycle  
We have a very robust recycling program across our global operations and in 2016 we recycled 12,346 tons (24,500,000 lbs) of waste that would have been destined for disposal facilities such as landfills. We recycle 
approximately 66% of the solid waste generated by our global operations, excluding chemical or hazardous 
wastes. In 2016 the annual environmental benefits from the paper / cardboard recycling efforts alone save:    
• 123,000 mature trees     • 50MM gallons of water  
• 22,000 cubic yards of landfill space   • 14,000 barrels of oil
Renew  
In 2016, we entered into agreements (where available markets exist) to support the generation of electricity sourced from sustainable sources, primarily wind energy. Supporting green energy reduces carbon dioxide 
emissions by generating electricity from renewable resources instead of conventional fuels. Our locations 
where we offset the carbon dioxide emissions from our operations include Ewing, NJ, Princeton, NJ,  Old Fort, 
OH, Fostoria, OH,  Lakewood, NJ, Victorville, CA and York, PA which accounts for approximately 50% of the total 
carbon dioxide  emissions from the use of electricity at our domestic operations.
Replenish  
In 2016, we entered into an agreement with The Arbor Day Foundation to offset carbon dioxide emissions through the planting of trees and protecting existing forests. T rees have many benefits one of which 
includes improving air quality by removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. This new program offsets 
the carbon dioxide emissions generated from the use of fossil fuels (primarily natural gas) from our 
facilities in Ewing, NJ, Princeton, NJ, Lakewood, NJ and York, PA as well as corporate travel, which accounts for 
approximately 25% of the total carbon dioxide emissions from our domestic operations. Through the Arbor 
Day Foundation, we planted approximately 850,000 mixed hardwood and cottonwood trees on farmland 
in the Mississippi River Valley.OUR 
OPERATIONS  
RENEWREPLENISHREDUCERECYCLE157 .6163.5170
160
150
140130
120
2014            2015  2016NORMALIZED NATURAL GAS/PROPANE USE 
(Thousand Cubic Feet/MM lbs shipped)
2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  22 Trees provide:  
•  Improved air quality – removal of carbon dioxide.
•  Improved water quality – a natural water filtration that provides Americans with 
clean drinking water.
•  Soil stabilization – the root system reduces the effects of erosion caused by  
water and wind.
•  Flood control  – forests reduce floods, therefore minimizing soil erosion.
• Job creation – forest restoration creates new and sustained jobs.
• Wildlife habitats – wildlife relies on forests for food, cover, and water. 
Energy Use  
Our net energy consumption associated with manufacturing was up approximately 4%, (approximately 72,000 
gigajoules) due largely to an increase in purchased steam at one plant associated with production.  Other energy 
usage, specifically natural gas and electricity, was effectively neutral with less than 1% deviation from 2015 levels. 
Implementation of several energy reduction projects has enabled us to minimize increases in our net natural gas 
and electricity use. As shown below, natural gas/propane usage and electricity usage, normalized to millions of 
pounds of product shipped, were both down by approximately 3% compared to 2015.
 2014  2015 2016  33.5
3332.532
31.5
3130.530NORMALIZED ELECTRICITY USAGE 
(Thousand KWH/MM lb shipped)
32.05OUR 
OPERATIONS  
153.732.232.952016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  23 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG)*
2013 2014 2015 2016
 GHG Emissions 
Manufacturing Operations (tons  CO2e )210,892 214,534 204,604 218,404
 GHG Emissions 
T ransportation Operations (tons  CO2e )205,740 219,228 241,487 200,793
 GHG Emissions 
Combined Operations (tons of  CO2e )416,632 433,762 446,091 419,197
 GHG Intensity  
(tons of  CO2e /MM pounds of product shipped)91.9 90.78 90.14 82.08
*Note that the above GHG figures have been adjusted compared to previously reported figures to align with CDP GHG calculation factors. 2013 data is included as the baseline year.Green House Gas (GHG) Emissions  
Our absolute GHG emissions were reduced approximately 3.4% in 2016 over 2015. Global GHG emissions 
associated with shipping operations was down 8.5% in 2016 over 2015. This was primarily as a result of 
a reduction in total miles driven related to both higher average weight per load and shorter routes and an 
increase in the percentage of intermodal shipments. The chart below provides the net and normalized GHG 
emissions and indicates an 11% decrease in normalized GHG intensity since the baseline year of 2013.
The Role of Product Formulation in Emissions  
One of the biggest contributors to our carbon footprint is shipping. The energy requirements to ship some 
of our heavier products – such as liquid laundry detergent – can be particularly intensive. By considering 
product weight at the design stage, we have an opportunity to reduce GHG emissions in shipping. For 
instance, our ARM &  HAMMER™ plus OxiClean™ Laundry Detergent Power Paks were designed to use 
a fraction of the water of liquid laundry detergents, which exponentially reduces the product’s weight, allowing for less energy intensive shipping. OUR 
OPERATIONS  Water Use  
Water conservation and management is a particularly high priority for us because water is a main ingredient 
in several of our products. The majority of our water use is as a product ingredient. A portion of our water is 
also used for cooling, cleaning, or other process operations and then returned to the environment. A small 
percentage of the water is attributed to personal consumption and sanitary use. During 2016, our operations 
required nearly 500 million gallons of water intake. Approximately 83% of water intake is from public water 
supply systems. The remaining 17% is from groundwater wells on our facilities. T otal water intake was up 
approximately 3% in 2016, while net consumption increased only 1.2%. However, as shown below, water 
intake and consumptions, normalized to million pounds shipped, were down slightly compared to 2015. We 
define net water consumption as:
Net Consumption(gal) =  
T otal water intake(gal) – T otal Water discharges/disposals (gal)
As we continue to increase production, we are actively exploring ways to avoid corresponding increases in water consumption. For example, in 2016, we implemented several water optimization projects specifically 
related to water recycling systems, minimizing evaporative losses and efficiency improvements of our 
water handling and treatment equipment and initiated several studies to assess water use at our most 
water intensive plants. None of our facilities are located in water-stressed areas. In addition, more than 
90% of wastewater is being discharged to local municipal wastewater treatment plants or hauled off site 
for appropriate disposal, and the remaining amount is direct discharge of non-contact cooling water. Our 
discharges do not significantly affect any water bodies. The chart above provides the normalized water 
intake and water consumption for the last three years.200
100
0
2014          2015    2016NORMALIZED WATER USE
(Thousand gallon/MM lb shipped)
52925699
5598
Intake/MM lb shipped
Consumed/MM lb shipped
2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  24 OUR 
OPERATIONS  Waste  
In 2016, our waste generation remained relatively flat 
compared to 2015, down by less than 1%. While the total waste volume 
managed remained flat, we did see some increases in non-hazardous waste 
that were offset by decreases in other waste categories. A significant increase 
in waste volume at one of our plants in 2016 was as a result of our vitamin 
manufacturing start up activities, including offsite transporting for a substantial 
amount of wastewater for disposal. The increase in wastewater disposal was 
offset by the cumulative waste minimization efforts at other plants.
Most of our facilities are considered small quantity generators of hazardous waste. No hazardous wastes are treated onsite, or are directly exported. 
All hazardous wastes are transported off site by properly licensed vendors 
to appropriate treatment storage or disposal sites. It should also be noted 
that there are no international shipments of nonhazardous waste. With the 
exception of our facility in Wyoming, which maintains an onsite non-hazardous 
waste landfill, all solid waste is transported offsite and properly disposed at 
licensed facilities.  
The following charts provide a summary of our current offsite waste disposal 
methods and normalized waste generation quantities for the last three years. 
14
12
10
86
4
20
2014           2015     2016NORMALIZED WASTE GENERATION
(T ons/MM lb shipped)WASTE DISPOSAL METHODS
T otal Waste■  Compost
■  Incineration■  Landfill■  WW T reatment■  Recycle■  Recovery■  Other
Non-hazardous Solid Waste
WW T rucked Offsite
Recycle
Hazardous Waste
2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  25 39%21%
32%1%4%1%2%OUR 
OPERATIONS  2016 SUSTAINABILITY  REPORT  |  26 
Each year, we invite employees to dedicate a portion of their paychecks to the EGF . Depending on their level 
of giving, employees can earn additional time off and all contributions are matched dollar for dollar by the 
company – with no cap. In 2016, about 60% of headquarters’ employees pledged their support to the EGF , 
with an average financial contribution per participating employee of nearly $1,400.  In addition to payroll 
deductions, we conduct workplace collection drives and fundraisers year-round.   In 2016, we opened a 
company store at our Ewing, NJ headquarters and about 5% of the proceeds from all purchases go to the EGF 
to help fund our charitable activities.
In 2016, the EGF awarded almost $1.2 million to 179 organizations supporting disaster relief, animal rescue, 
disadvantaged youth, domestic violence, education, health, homelessness, hunger relief, military services, 
preservation of the environment, services for the elderly, and the visual and performing arts. Employees are encouraged to sponsor applications for their favorite charities and funding preference is given to those 
organizations with an employee sponsor.
Part of working in a community 
is the support and dedication to working together to 
strengthen the communities 
where we operate.
Employee Giving Fund
 
In 2005, we established the Church & 
Dwight Employee Giving Fund, Inc. (EGF), 
a workplace giving and volunteerism 
program that primarily supports charitable 
organizations in our headquarters 
communities in New Jersey and Eastern 
Pennsylvania. Since then, EGF has become 
a cherished part of our culture. Through 
2016, the EGF has awarded over 1500 grants totaling almost $9 Million to charitable 
organizations throughout the areas where 
our employees live and work.
HomeFront Holiday DinnerBike Repair and Exchange - Boys and Girls Club of Mercer CountyOUR 
COMMUNITIES  Church & Dwight employees volunteer at the T renton Area Soup Kitchen.
2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  27  
Community Support  
In addition to the work through the Employee Giving Fund, we also reach out to support the local community 
such as being a principle sponsor of the Princeton Half Marathon which benefits HiT ops, a local organization 
that helps adolescents increase their access to life-changing health information and develop  
and improve decision-making skills at a time in their lives when they need it most. In addition:
•  Our ongoing and primary outlet for product donations is Feed the Children and in 
2016 we donated $500,000 worth of product to Feed the Children.
•  We donate cat litter on a regular basis to the ASCPA as well as other animal shelters. 
Highlights of our Colonial Heights, VA plant efforts include:
•  Capstone Project with Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) – The Chemical Engineering Department at Virginia Commonwealth University is working our 
Colonial Heights, Virginia facility to evaluate the alternate methods of phosphorus 
removal from wastewater.
•  School supplies were donated to the Dinwiddie County Virginia School Supplies Drive.
•  Breast Cancer Awareness – Colonial Heights employees were given Breast Cancer Awareness tote bags and information to increase awareness for family members and themselves.
•  Souper Bowl – Colonial Heights employees donated canned food and placed the donations into the containers labeled with their favorite Super Bowl team. The 
most weight accumulated is the team projected to win the Super Bowl (and has 
been correct for the last three years!). All canned food items were donated to the Virginia Food Bank in Colonial Heights.
OUR 
COMMUNITIES  
COLONIAL  
HEIGHTS2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  28  
Employee Volunteerism  
Our employees regularly volunteer with EGF grantee organizations throughout the community. Each June, 
we host a Week of Service during which Princeton and Ewing based employees are invited to participate in 
company-sponsored service opportunities. Our 2016 Week of Service projects included packing over 1,500 
lunches and serving almost 500 dinners for the T renton Area Soup Kitchen; packing 300 care packages for 
our military men and women serving overseas; sorting donations for the homeless at the Rescue Mission of 
T renton; assisting with the setup of the New Jersey Special Olympics Summer Games; and helping to revitalize 
the gardens at Isles in T renton. At the end of the week, we hosted our popular EGF Organization Showcase at 
our Ewing headquarters, during which EGF grantees were invited to share information on their organizations 
and educate employees on more ways to get involved.  
HomeFront NJ  
HomeFront NJ, a local nonprofit that provides services for homeless youth and families in Central New Jersey, 
is one of EGF’s signature partners. Each year the EGF supports HomeFront NJ’s work through both grants 
and volunteerism. In 2016, we continued two annual traditions as our employees served a holiday dinner to 
homeless families and volunteered at HomeFront’s Camp Mercer – a summer day camp for homeless youth.  
First Response/Resolve
For over 10 years, our First Response brand team has partnered 
with Resolve, the National Infertility Association.  Resolve is 
dedicated to providing compassionate support, advocacy and 
education to people faced with challenges in building their 
families. Resolve provides advocacy for coverage, access to care, 
support and community, education, and awareness of all family building options. The First Response brand team partners with Resolve in the following ways:
•  Participated in National Infertility Awareness Week® to raise awareness about the 
disease of infertility and encourage the public to understand their reproductive health. 
•  Donated over 10,000 Pregnancy and Ovulation T est Kits to dozens of “Walks of Hope” 
across the US – “Walk of Hope” is a community event that support those  
with infertility.
•  Resolve was promoted on millions of First Response™ Ovulation  T est kit packaging over the past 10 years.
A Church & Dwight employee volunteers at the annual HomeFront NJ holiday partyOUR 
COMMUNITIES  
2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  29  
Sexual Health Program 
As the manufacturer and distributor of T rojan Brand Condoms, we are committed to 
increasing awareness among young adults in the U.S. about the risks of unprotected 
sex – notably unintended pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). In 
2016, we worked toward this goal in several ways including:
•  Partnered with Great American Condom Campaign (GACC) which is a 
youth-led grassroots movement to make the U.S. a sexually healthy nation, to donate more than one million condoms to college campuses.
 •  “Condoms (STILL) Work!” Campaign has been a 10-year partnership and is featured on all of our condom boxes.  
•  Donated more than one million condoms to health departments across the U.S. annually.   This is part of a partnership with the National Coalition of STD Directors (NCSD) to refocus attention, resources, and consumer education on condoms as a highly effective form of STD and unintended pregnancy prevention.
•  Released our annual T rojan™ Sexual Health Report Card ranking of college campuses according to accessibility of sexual health resources. In 2016, University of Georgia earned the top ranking.
•  Partnered with the NCSD, T rojan has donated 20,000 condoms to Alba Alvarado, a student from San Rafael, CA who raised awareness with her high school administration for a number of years to provide better access to sexual health information and bring access to free condoms to her campus via vending machines in school restrooms. Her inspiring campaign, which included acting as a “human condom machine” and handing out condoms to her peers, resulted in a significant and positive shift in the conversation around safe sex in her community. Alba’s efforts and T rojan’s support have been profiled on Glamour.com, MsMagazine.com, SexEtc.org and in Ms. Magazine’s Winter print issue.
•  Additionally, T rojan makes many donations to local health care organizations including:   Princeton Hospital Clinic and Einstein Medical Center Philadelphia, PA.
Fabric Care – Clean Scentsations 
(National Park Foundation) 
Our Clean Scentsations™ Collection of U.S. National 
Park-inspired scented laundry detergents  provides 
monetary support to the National Park Foundation 
with each bottle purchased.
Resue Mission of T rentonOUR 
COMMUNITIES  2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  30  
Our 2016 Sustainability Report 
continues our commitment to transparently communicate our sustainability efforts. 
The report reflects our performance for the year ended December 31, 2016, along with prior data and 
information on changes to our operations, plants, and data collection process, where relevant. The report also 
references 2017 initiatives planned at the time of publishing the report. 
T o lead the collection of information and the report preparation process, we assembled a team representing 
Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS), Finance, Human Resources, Law, Marketing, Operations, Procurement, 
and Research and Development. 
The report is closely aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Standards. Financial indicators include all 
subsidiaries worldwide, plus Church & Dwight’s equity share of joint ventures. 
Employment and EHS indicators include all of our operated manufacturing and distribution facilities, our R&D 
Corporate T echnical Center, and our corporate headquarters, with select smaller scale operations excluded. Please follow the following link to be directed to our website 2016 Annual Report for more information on our 
company, joint ventures and subsidiaries worldwide. 
We welcome input from stakeholders, including customers, consumers, 
shareholders, nonprofit organizations, facility neighbors, and employees, who seek to help us improve our business and sustainability performance.  
 
Please send questions or comments about this report to  sustainability@churchdwight.com.
For all other inquiries, please visit our website at  
www.churchdwight.com.ABOUT THIS 
REPORT  2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  31  
GRI INDEX
Church & Dwight closely aligns with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting framework, an internationally 
recognized guidance for transparency in sustainability performance.
The Index below lists the GRI indicators addressed in this report, and either includes the information directly or 
provides a page reference to the relevant section(s) within this Sustainability Report.
 GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES  
102-1 Name of organization Church & Dwight Co, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services About Church & Dwight
102-3 Location of headquarters Ewing, New Jersey, US
102-4 Location of operations About Church & Dwight
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form About Church & Dwight
102-6 Markets served About Church & Dwight
102-7 Scale of the organization About Church & Dwight
102-8 T otal workforce Sustainability Performance Data
102-9 Supply chain Our Operations
102-10 Significant changes to the organizations and its supply chain About Church & Dwight
102-11 Precautionary approach Our Products
102-12 External initiatives Sustainability Approach 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Our Products Our Operations
102-13 Membership in associations Sustainability Approach
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Sustainability Approach
102-18 Governance structure See the Corporate Governance section of our website
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement About This Report
102-42 Selection of stakeholders About This Report
102-43 Approach to engagement Stakeholder Engagement About This Report
102-45 Entities included in the report About This Report
102-46 Defining report content Sustainability Approach 
102-48 Restatements of information Greenhouse Gas Emissions Sustainability Performance  
Data
102-49 Significant changes in report scope and boundaries There were no significant changes in the scope and boundaries of our 
reporting for 2016.
102-50 Reporting period About This Report
102-51 Date of previous report Our previous report was published in 2016 and included performance 
data for calendar year 2015.
102-52 Reporting cycle AnnualABOUT THIS 
REPORT  2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  32  
 GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES  
102-53 Contact point About This Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report
102-55 GRI index GRI Index
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE  
201-1 Direct economic value About Church & Dwight 
Our Communities
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Our Operations
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE  
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy Use Sustainability Performance  Data
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Sustainability Performance  Data
302-3 Energy intensity Energy Use 
Sustainability Performance  
Data
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Use
303-1 T otal water withdrawal by source Water 
Sustainability Performance  
Data
303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Water
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions GHG Emissions Sustainability Performance  Data
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Sustainability Performance  Data
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Sustainability Performance  
Data
305-4 GHG emissions intensity GHG Emissions Sustainability Performance  
Data
305-5 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions Energy Use and GHG Emissions
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water 
Sustainability Performance  
Data
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste Sustainability Performance  Data
306-3 Significant spills Spills/Releases to the Environment
306-4 T ransport of hazardous waste Waste 
Sustainability Performance  
Data
306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Water
307-1 Environmental fines and sanctions Citations and Penalties/SurchargesABOUT THIS 
REPORT  2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  33  
 GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES  
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE  
403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker health and 
safety committeesEach of our facilities has a Safety Committee with management  and worker representation.
403-2 Rates of injury Workplace Safety 
Sustainability Performance  Data
403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupationChurch & Dwight has no locations or types of workers that  experience high incidence or risk of occupational diseases.
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs T raining & Development
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviewsAll Church & Dwight employees receive an annual  performance review.
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Our Operations
413-1 Community engagement Our Communities
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of products and services Our ProductsABOUT THIS 
REPORT  2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  34  
SUSTAINABILITY  
PERFORMANCE DATA  
INDICATOR Unit 2016 2015 2014
ENVIRONMENTAL
T otal Energy Use Thousand GJ 1,774 1,702 1,631
Gas (Natural Gas + Propane) Thousand Cubic Feet 804,948 811,729 734,126
Electricity Thousand kWh 163,706 163,639 153,859
Fuel Oil/Gasoline Gallons 83,195 93,328 142,627
Purchased Steam T ons 112,250 80,457 97 ,305
Normalized Energy Use GJ/MM LBS SHP 347 .4 342.9 341.4
Combined (Process and T ransport) CO2e T ons 419,197 446,091 433,762
Process  CO2e T ons 218,404 204,604 214,534
T ransport CO2e T ons 200,793 241,487 219,228
Normalized Combined CO2e   T ons CO2e /MM LBS SHP 82.1 89.8 90.8
Global Net Water Use Thousand Gallons 282,443 279,225 248,884
Global Water Input Thousand Gallons 499,141 489,454 440,693
Global Water Effluent Thousand Gallons 216,698 210,229 191,808
Normalized Global Water Use Thousand Gallons/MM LBS SHP 97 .7 98.6 92.2
T otal Waste Produced T ons 60,617 60,854 41,260
Hazardous Waste Produced T ons 746 752 730
Non-hazardous Solid Waste Produced T ons 20,012 22,003 16,071
Wastewater T rucked for Offsite Disposal T ons 27 ,513 23,552 13,218
Recycled Non-hazardous Waste Produced T ons 12,346 14,547 11,241
Normalized Waste Produced T ons/MM LBS SHP 11.9 12.3 8.6
Environmental Penalties To t a l $20,032 $250 $200
T otal Reported Releases To t a l 4 2 5
Accidental Releases To t a l 3 1 4
Continuous Releases To t a l 1 1 1 
T otal Employees To t a l 4,485 4,408 4,140
Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) To t a l 3,503 3,408 3,140
Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) To t a l 982 1,000 1,000
T otal Female Employees Percent 39% 40% 41%
Female Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Percent 38% 39% 39%
Female Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) Percent 46% 47% 47%
T otal Male Employees Percent 61% 60% 59%
Male Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Percent 62% 61% 61%
Male Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) Percent 54% 53% 53%
Days Away, Restricted, or T ransferred (DART) Rate (Global) Recordable Incidents/100 FTE 1.0 1.3 1.2
Net Sales Millions $3,493.1 $3,394.8 $3,297 .6
Consumer Domestic Sales Millions $2677 .8 $2,581.6 $2,471.6
Consumer International Sales Millions $525.2 $501.0 $535.2
Specialty Products Sales Millions 290.1 $312.2 $290.8
Employee Giving Fund Distributions Millions $1.2 $1.2 $1.1
The following adjustments were made on past data in this report: 
• GHG net tons and normalized data for 2014 and 2015 have been adjusted to align with the 2015 CDP reporting by Church & Dwight including use of location specific CDP emission factors and references for GHG calculations. • Scope 2 GHG emissions for 2014 and 2015 were further revised using the eGrid2014 emission factors published in January 2017 by USEPA. • T otal water intake for 2014 and 2015, as well as net consumption figures, and normalized data have been adjusted to account for a calculation error in a plant water intake.  • Pounds shipped data and all normalized results have been adjusted to account for inclusion of product shipped in Australia2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  |  35  
