SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT2020TABLE OF CONTENTS
42
104
106
108
115
11755
59
63
80
86
05
23We began in 1846 as a baking soda business. T oday, we are a top-tier Consumer 
Products Company with a large portfolio of brands that consumers love, especially 
the ARM & HAMMER® brand with products containing baking soda.
We have a rich heritage of commitment to people and the planet, and there is 
overwhelming evidence that they need to be protected. One of the most significant 
risks that the world faces today relates to climate change. We have expanded this 
Report to address our governance, strategy, risk management and metrics and 
targets related to climate change.
We have long regarded ourselves as a friend of the environment. Over 100 years 
ago, we began using recycled materials in our cartons. We were the first U.S. 
manufacturer to remove phosphates from laundry detergent. We were the first and 
only corporate sponsor of the first Earth Day in 1970. T oday, the equivalent of 100% 
of our direct operations’ global electricity needs are offset with renewable sources.
We take great pride in fostering an enduring culture of doing well by doing good. By 
focusing on making meaningful contributions to society, in addition to generating 
shareholder value, we create a stronger, more resilient company while contributing 
to a better world.
Church & Dwighters are goal-oriented people. T o create a compass for our 
sustainability program, we have established aggressive goals for ourselves. Our 
corporate sustainability and ESG goals include improving the sustainability profile 
of our products (packaging and ingredients), positively impacting our employees and 
the communities where we operate and reducing our environmental footprint. We 
are reducing our environmental footprint by increasing renewable energy usage, 
reducing water and greenhouse gas emissions, and reducing solid waste to landfills. 
Our top sustainability goal is to achieve carbon neutrality for global operations 
owned and controlled by us by the end of 2025. T o achieve carbon neutrality, we  
have partnered with the Arbor Day Foundation to plant millions of trees in the 
Mississippi River Valley. Trees remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and  
emit life-sustaining oxygen. We offset greater than 65% of the carbon dioxide that 
we emit today. 
We have a roadmap to meet our goals, and I’m pleased to report that we are 
well on our way. T ake a look at the “Progress At A Glance” section (page 4) to see 
how we are tracking against all of our sustainability and ESG goals. In 2020, our 
continued progress earned public recognition, including the 2020 Newsweek’s Most 
Sustainable Companies list, the EPA’s Green Power Partnership T op 100 list, the 2020 Forbes Magazine: Americas Best-in-State  
Employer Award and the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Since early 2020, we and the world have faced a new 
challenge with COVID-19. We have more than 5100 
employees at over 30 sites around the world. The safety 
of our employees has been and continues to be our top 
priority. We follow the guidelines established by the CDC including   
conducting routine temperature checks as you enter our locations, deep cleaning 
of workspaces between shifts, working in self-contained pods where possible and 
ensuring social distancing. In many situations, our employees have worked remotely 
since the COVID-19 pandemic began. We continue to work through this challenging 
environment and I’m confident we will emerge as a much stronger and more 
sustainable company.
In 2020, several incidents of racial injustice, especially the death of George Floyd, 
ignited an outcry against decades of racial inequality in the United States. The need 
for diversity, equity and inclusion in society and in the workplace has been magnified. 
We have expanded this Report to address our goals, programs and commitments 
regarding Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. Diversity is a strength and makes us better. 
We are dedicated to maintaining a culture of belonging at Church & Dwight.  
In partnership with the Church & Dwight Employee Giving Fund, Inc. (EGF), an 
employee-run giving program that primarily supports charitable organizations in 
New Jersey and Eastern Pennsylvania, we match employee donations dollar-for-
dollar. In 2020, the EGF contributed $1.1 million to 185 deserving organizations in a 
variety of areas. The EGF is another example of how our employees engage in local 
causes in which they have a personal interest. T o date, the EGF has contributed over 
$14 million to charitable organizations in the U.S..
Please read this Report to see the progress we have made over the past year to make 
Church & Dwight a better company. A MESSAGE FROM MATT FARRELL 
Matthew T. Farrell 
President and Chief Executive Officer
4PROGRESS AT A GLANCE
OUR BRANDS
PRODUCTSPACKAGING
EMPLOYEES & COMMUNITIESRESPONSIBLE SOURCING
ENVIRONMENTVITAFUSION brand team 
reached its goal of planting over 
200,000 fruit trees   
in underserved communities.
FIRST RESPONSE brand team 
partnered with Every Mother 
Counts to support Birth  
Justice, generating close to  
$150,000  that will benefit 
underserved pregnant and 
childbearing women.
Achieved 100% 
Ingredient Disclosure   
on pack or on-line world-wide.
Removed 97.9%  of 
Chemicals  of Concern from 
our global portfolio.TROJAN brand team donated more 
than one million condoms  to health 
departments across the U.S. in partnership with 
the National Coalition of STD Directors.
ARM & HAMMER brand team joined 
with the Arbor Day Foundation to 
celebrate the 50th anniversary  
of Earth Day giving away  
over  25,000  tree seedlings 
and 100,000  wildflower 
seed cards.Achieved nearly  100%  
Certified or Recycled 
paperboard  across global  
primary and secondary packaging.
Joined the U.S. Plastics Pact  
to support recycling and a circular economy. 
Continued to grow the 
number of our products 
with How2Recycle   
tile for consumer education. 
Launched an employee led 
Global Diversity & Inclusion Council 
and strategy within T alent Acquisition, 
Conscious Inclusion, Community 
Outreach and How We Run the Business.Implemented and maintained protocols 
across all our global locations to ensure 
the safety of our employees and provided enhanced 
support and benefits during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Contributed approximately  
$4.8 million  to our communities  
through donations of products, face 
coverings, hand sanitizer, supporting food 
banks and gift certificates for employees 
to support local food establishments.   Approximately  97% of  
our palm oil  derivative traceable  
back to the mills.
Increased our support of 
certified diverse suppliers.
Achieved an A- and A score  
on CDP’s Climate and Forests Reporting.
Metrics for energy use, 
water use, waste, and 
GHG were decreased 
when normalized to production.
Greater than 32,000,000  
pounds of waste material was 
recycled  or beneficially reused.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Energy use and water  
intake were down  
-2% and -3%.
Energy per MM lbs  
product shipped -10%.
Onsite solar panels installation  
in New Plymouth, NZ for  
50% of electricity needs.5We were founded in 1846 and incorporated in Delaware in 1925.  
We develop, manufacture and market a broad range of consumer household, 
personal care and specialty products focused on animal and food production, 
chemicals and cleaners. 
We operate in three principal segments: Consumer Domestic, Consumer 
International and our Specialty Products Division. In addition to the information 
below, our Annual Report on Form 10K  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2020 provides more information on our three principal segments.  
Our consumer products marketing efforts are focused principally on our 13 
“power brands. ” These well-recognized brand names include ARM & HAMMER® 
baking soda, cat litter, laundry detergent, carpet deodorizer and other baking 
soda based products; TROJAN® condoms, lubricants and vibrators; OXICLEAN® 
stain removers, cleaning solutions, laundry detergents and bleach alternatives; 
SPINBRUSH® battery-operated toothbrushes; FIRST RESPONSE® home 
pregnancy and ovulation test kits; NAIR® depilatories; ORAJEL® oral analgesic; 
XTRA® laundry detergent; L ’IL CRITTERS® and VITAFUSION® gummy dietary 
supplements for children and adults, respectively; BATISTE® dry shampoo; 
WATERPIK® water flossers and showerheads; FLAWLESS® products; and 
ZICAM® cold remedy products. 
ABOUT CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC.  
POWER BRANDS
Headquartered in Ewing, NJ
2020 net sales of $4,895.8MM
2020 T otal Shareholder Return of 25.5%
5,108 employees
Publicly traded on New York Stock Exchange (CHD)
6We sell our consumer products under a variety of brands   
through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass  
merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores, 
dollar and other discount stores, pet and other specialty stores and websites and 
other e-commerce channels, all of which sell our products to consumers. 
Our specialty products are sold to industrial customers, livestock producers  
and through distributors.
With our joint-venture partner, we distribute ARMAKLEEN® water-based 
cleaners that offer a more effective and environmentally responsible way to 
remove grease, oil, rust, paint, ink, adhesives and other coatings from most  
metal and plastic surfaces.
Our Consumer International Business markets a variety of personal care, 
household and over-the-counter products in international markets, including 
Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Mexico and the United Kingdom, and in 
more than 130 global export markets around the world, including China and 
Japan. We manage over 60 brands in international markets, including some of 
our U.S. power brands such as ARM & HAMMER, BATISTE, NAIR, OXICLEAN, 
TROJAN, L ’IL CRITTERS, SPINBRUSH, WATERPIK, FLAWLESS  
and VITAFUSION.
ACQUISITIONS / DIVESTITURES
On December 1, 2020, we acquired the ZICAM brand, which was subsequently 
merged with and into Church & Dwight effective December 31, 2020. There 
were no divestitures in 2020.   
Business  
Segment:Consumer  
DomesticConsumer  
InternationalSpecialty Products
Description:Household and personal  
care productsPrimarily personal  
care products for  
international markets Animal and food production products, 
bulk sodium bicarbonate and specialty 
cleaning products 
2020 Net Sales: $3,767.6 M $828.2 M $300.0 M
7OUR COMPANY, OUR EMPLOYEES, 
OUR COMMUNITY SUPPORT  
OUR COMPANY, OUR EMPLOYEES
Safety is always our #1 priority. We follow government safety guidelines in 
our plant operations, laboratories and offices by providing face coverings 
and hand sanitizer, conducting routine temperature checks as you enter 
our locations, deep cleaning of workspaces between shifts, working in 
self-contained pods where possible and ensuring social distancing. In many 
situations, our employees have worked remotely since the COVID-19 
pandemic began.
OUR RESPONSE TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
Our success in managing through the COVID-19 pandemic demonstrates 
our belief in action: T ogether We Have the Power to Win. From the start 
of the pandemic, we have implemented and maintained COVID protocols 
across all our global locations to ensure the safety of our employees and 
help our communities. 
Early during the COVID-19 pandemic, our employees immediately figured 
out how to help by producing hand sanitizer in our Folkstone, UK plant and 
face shields in our research and development (R&D) operation. Our supply 
chain employees continued to keep operations running while ensuring our 
high-demand products were manufactured and shipped for our consumers. 
Our R&D employees continued to work diligently to make our existing 
and new products available to even more consumers around the world. 
Corporate employees worked remotely, leveraging technology to stay in 
touch and collaborate effectively.
We communicated frequently to all employees about the impacts, protocols 
and our relatively low number of cases and transmission. We shared 
monthly tips and made sure employees knew about enhancements to 
benefits and how to seek help through our Employee Assistance Program. 
There were no employee layoffs due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  
8In recognition of our strong performance in 
2020 and the extraordinary contributions of 
our employees during 2020, the Compensation 
& Organization Committee of our Board of 
Directors approved a 10 percent increase in 
the annual bonus payouts under our Annual 
Incentive Plan to our front-line manufacturing 
and supply chain employees globally.   
The Committee also authorized one-time cash bonuses 
of $1,200 to front-line manufacturing and supply chain 
employees and $600 to all other employees below the 
executive vice president level. In addition, our non-salaried 
front-line hourly plant employees in the U.S. received 
an additional 10 percent increase in the profit sharing 
contribution made by us to each employee under our 
Savings and Profit Sharing Plan for Hourly Employees.
None of our employees at the level of executive vice 
president or our CEO received the additional 10 percent 
payout under the Annual Incentive Plan, one-time cash 
bonuses or increased contribution under the profit sharing 
plan. We also ensured that employees had access to 
company-sponsored health insurance, assumed full cost 
of coverage for COVID-related testing and treatment, and 
provided additional tools and resources to support the 
health and emotional wellness of our employees and their 
families under the company-sponsored benefit plans.
9We donated 1,000 cases of our DARK PROTECT® 
liquid laundry booster to first responders  to help 
them keep their uniforms clean and looking like new when 
the need was greatest at the height of COVID-19. Recipients 
included local fire fighters, nurses, postal workers and  
police officers.Our OXICLEAN and ARM & HAMMER 
brand teams donated laundry supplies and 
toothbrushes to areas hard hit by hurricanes.   
This was done in partnership with Jennie Finch, World 
Champion Softball Pitcher and ARM & HAMMER 
Ambassador, just in time for the holiday season. 
Our VIVISCAL brand team donated $100,000 to 
help stylists and beauty professionals enduring 
financial hardships as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic.  In partnership with the Professional Beauty 
Association (PBA), they donated a portion of sales from Viviscal.
com to PBA’s COVID-19 Relief Fund, aiding licensed beauty 
professionals who have not been able to work or are experiencing 
financial pressure due to the COVID-19 pandemic.Our Church & Dwight Employee Relief Fund (ERF) 
lent a helping hand to those of our employees  
who experienced financial hardship due to the COVID-19 
pandemic by issuing  tax-free qualified disaster payments up  
to $5,000.Our Mason City, Iowa plants donated an ‘ultra-cold 
freezer’ to Mercy One North Iowa Medical Center. 
These freezers are needed to store many types of medicines, 
including the vaccines for COVID-19. The freezers were 
difficult, if not impossible, to source and very expensive when 
they could be found. The hospital was so thrilled to receive this 
very needed freezer.OUR COMMUNITY SUPPORT
Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic we have contributed approximately $4.8 million to our 
communities through product donations,  delivering masks, hard surface sanitizers and hand sanitizers to hospitals and 
emergency services where we live and operate, donating to local food banks, and supporting local food establishments by purchasing 
gift certificates. Early on in the pandemic and at a time of great need, we were able to purchase and then donate 200,000 surgical 
masks.
240,000+
Masks, gloves and face shields donated to support 
our Healthcare Heroes in seven countries, 22 Church 
& Dwight locations and 23 hospitals/emergency 
management operations
$1.6MM+
Product donations to those in need
$100,000+
Donated to local food pantries & animal shelters in the 
communities where our employees work and live10
Our TROJAN brand team helped direct the sexual health 
conversation during the COVID-19 pandemic.
T o drive awareness of the risks of COVID-19, our brand team began a 
campaign to educate consumers and provide them with information 
from the NYC Department of Health about safe sex guidelines during 
the COVID-19 pandemic. By amplifying “CORONAVIRUS AND 
SEX: WHAT TO KNOW” on the brand website and social media, we 
encouraged couples to stay home and stay safe during the COVID-19 
pandemic. The brand team also launched “Rising Time, ” a 69-page 
cookbook designed to remind couples quarantining together that 
baking can be a fun and sexy way to spend some time. As part of the 
release of the free book, the TROJAN brand team donated 50,000 
meals to those in need in conjunction with Feeding America.Our Employee Giving Fund recognized unprecedented 
need in our communities early on in the COVID-19 
pandemic by donating $100,000 in emergency relief to 30 
food pantries and homeless shelters with high demand.
Our Montreal plant helped its local community by 
giving 4,000 masks to two local health institutions.
We are very proud and grateful for our front-line workers doing 
everything they can to keep our community safe.
At Church & Dwight, we are happy to do our part and contribute 
where we can.
11OUR SUSTAINABILITY & 
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE (“ESG”) APPROACH
We place a high priority on operating in a responsible, respectful and ethical 
manner. The Church & Dwight Code of Conduct provides guidance on a broad 
array of business ethics and legal compliance topics. In addition, our Global 
Operations Guiding Principles set out the minimum standards we require of 
ourselves and our vendors to ensure: 
• Compliance with ethical and applicable legal requirements
• Workers’ and labor rights are respected and protected
• Prevention of forced and child labor
• Working conditions are safe and the health and safety of workers is protected
• Workers are treated with respect and dignity
• Manufacturing processes are environmentally responsible
• Compliance with all applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery and trade laws
Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and 
regulations relating to environmental concerns. This includes air emissions, 
wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management activities, and 
the safety of our employees. We take the steps necessary to comply with such 
regulations. These steps include periodic environmental and health and safety 
audits of our operations including R&D. These audits, conducted by independent 
firms with expertise in environmental, health and safety compliance, include 
site visits at each location, as well as a review of documentary information, 
to determine compliance with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules 
and regulations. However, our environmental priorities extend beyond our 
compliance efforts.
       CORE
     PILLARS
OF SUSTAINABILITY6
12RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Improve our suppliers’ environmental, labor, health & safety and 
ethical practices (En vironment and Social).EMPLOYEES & COMMUNITIES
Embrace the principles of good corporate citizenship and social 
responsibility within the communities we can impact (Social).PACKAGING
Utilize consumer friendly & environmentally responsible
packaging (Environment).PRODUCTS
Provide safe and effective products for consumers &
the environment (Environment and Social).OUR BRANDS
Delight consumers with our brands and contribute towards   
a more sustainable world (Environment and Social).
ENVIRONMENT
Minimize environmental impact of our global operations, with a focus 
on increased renewable energy usage, reduced water consumption, 
greenhouse gas emissions and solid waste to landfills (Environment).
 
The following six pillars are the core focus of our 
sustainability efforts, and are identified with their 
corresponding primary ESG priorities: 
In 2020, our continued  
progress in key areas of 
sustainability earned recognition 
from various third parties including 
Newsweek’s America’s Most 
Responsible Companies T op 
100 List, the EPA’s Green Power 
Partnership T op 100 list, and the 
FTSE4Good Index Series,  
 among others.
1314
HOW WE GOVERN  
OUR SUSTAINABILITY  
& ESG APPROACH  
Our governance focus includes the processes, resources and 
systems in support of our sustainability and ESG efforts, as 
well as our corporate governance, which is separate from our 
sustainability program and described in our Proxy Statement 
for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption 
“Sustainability and ESG” .  
Our Corporate Issues Council (“The Council”), comprised 
of senior executives, subject matter experts and other 
representatives across various functions, guides the integration 
of sustainability and our ESG program with all parts of 
our business and drives continuous improvement in our 
sustainability approach and performance. The Council takes the 
lead in defining and implementing our sustainability strategies 
across the six pillars of our global sustainability program. 
Our Board of Directors, acting principally through its 
Governance & Nominating Committee, oversees our 
sustainability and ESG efforts. That Committee facilitates 
Board oversight over all aspects of ESG, including those aspects 
covered by other committees. However, our Governance & 
Nominating Committee, Compensation & Organization, and 
Audit Committees each focus on specified areas of sustainability 
and ESG. Our Governance & Nominating Committee focuses 
primarily on governance, brands, products, packaging, 
responsible sourcing and environmental aspects of ESG, 
including climate change. Our Compensation & Organization 
Committee focuses on human capital matters, including 
diversity, equity and inclusion. Our Audit Committee focuses on 
our compliance and ethics program.15The Chair of our Governance & Nominating 
Committee reviews the status of our 
sustainability and ESG program with our 
Board of Directors at each regularly scheduled 
Board meeting, and supplements this review, from 
time to time, as requested by our Board of Directors or 
as appropriate with respect to specific sustainability and 
ESG matters. Matters related to human capital, including 
diversity, equity and inclusion, are overseen by the 
Compensation & Organization Committee, and reported 
on to the Board by the Chair of that Committee.
In addition, our Executive Vice President and General 
Counsel, who is a member of The Council, meets quarterly 
with the Governance & Nominating Committee, together 
with subject matter experts from The Council, to review 
the health of our sustainability and ESG program, its 
priorities, and the status of execution against those 
priorities.
Our Independent Lead Director is responsible for 
ensuring that stockholder sustainability requests, 
recommendations and proposals are evaluated by 
the Governance & Nominating Committee, additional 
committees within the Board as appropriate, and then by 
the Board of Directors, if needed.
16HOW WE ASSESS MATERIAL ISSUES  
We use the standards and guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board industry specific standards 
and the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures to 
inform our sustainability and ESG disclosures. These disclosures are 
included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”), our 
Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders and this 
Sustainability Report (“Report”). The “materiality” thresholds in those 
standards and guidelines may differ from the concept of “materiality” 
for purposes of the federal securities laws and disclosures required by 
the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“Commission”) rules in our 
Annual Report. 
The inclusion of sustainability and ESG disclosures in this Report and in 
our other filings with the Commission does not necessarily imply that we 
consider them to be material for purposes of the federal securities laws 
or the Commission’s rules and regulations governing such disclosure. 
Defining our material issues, including environmental matters and 
reputational risk, is an ongoing process overseen by The Council.  
The Council established the six pillars of our sustainability program 
(identified above) by collecting issues our various internal and external 
stakeholders expressed as sustainability priorities. The Council 
evaluates and ranks various risks and opportunities based on relative 
impact and likelihood, discusses the most significant sustainability 
issues, risks and opportunities we face, and determines which of our 
internal functions should be accountable for them. Our most material 
issues are listed in the table to the right, as well as an indication of 
whether the issue relates to our own operations, our upstream impacts 
in the supply chain, or our downstream impacts associated with 
customers and consumers. 
Risk factors  that we determined to be potentially material for us are 
reported in our  Annual Report,  which includes environmental matters 
and reputational risk.    T opic
Upstream* Operations Downstream*
Our Brands
Engaging with customers 
and consumers; integrating 
sustainability
Products
Safe ingredients;
disclosure
Packaging
Consumer-friendly and 
environmentally responsible
Employees & 
Communities
Diversity & Inclusion, gender 
equality and employee health
Community-enhancing 
philanthropy and outreach
Responsible Sourcing
Suppliers’ environmental, 
labor, health & safety and 
ethical practices
Palm Oil Derivatives
Environment
Energy and GHGs;
Water & WasteWhere do the impacts occur?
*Upstream  refers to the material inputs needed for production, and Downstream  refers to where products get produced and distributed.17
Certain of our business activities and the production of some of 
the materials used in our products, including petroleum based, 
agricultural and forest materials and the growing global demand 
for livestock products which is the focus of our Animal and Food 
Production business, can contribute to  deforestation, climate change 
and reduction in biodiversity, and can adversely impact water quality 
and availability, people and communities. Climate change is, in turn, 
a threat to each of those activities. While we strive to minimize the 
environmental impact of our global operations, a potential loss in 
business could result from reduced demand for our products and 
loss of customers if we do not meet their expectations related to our 
efforts towards sustainability and fighting climate change. Refer to 
the Climate Change section of this Report for a discussion of climate 
change, our potential impacts and response. 
HOW WE ENGAGE STAKEHOLDERS 
We regularly receive communications and inquiries from our 
stakeholders regarding our sustainability practices. Stakeholder issues 
are included on the agenda for each of The Council’s meetings, and 
sustainability issues raised by investors and other stakeholders are 
reviewed with the Board’s Governance & Nominating Committee at 
each of its meetings. 
Our customers continue to express interest in our performance 
with respect to climate impacts and mitigation, palm oil supply chain 
management, water use and social impacts in the supply chain. A 
segment of investors has also raised some of these topics. We respond 
to these requests by sharing information through the CDP Climate 
Change and CDP Forests Responses. The Responsible Sourcing and 
Environment sections of this Report include more detail about our 
management of these topics. 
We work with our local communities to address concerns relating 
to our operations and engage with them through multiple channels 
including this Report, our filings with the Commission, our corporate 
website and one-on-one communications. We engage with 
our stakeholders 
using various 
methods including:  18Stakeholder Method of Engagement Material T opics of Greatest Interest
Our Employees• Employee engagement surveys
• Corporate T own Hall meetings
• Quarterly CEO video message 
• Digital signage and plant postings
• Plant meetings 
 • Plant management  
    production walk through
• Intranet site 
•  N e w s l e t t e r s  –  S C O O P  a n d                                    
    Brand Buzz
• Social media postings
• Direct mailingBrands – Customer Engagement; Integrating Sustainability
Products – Safe Ingredients 
Packaging
Employees – D&I; Health & Safety
Community Outreach
Environment
Our Consumers• Consumer inquiries 
• Consumer surveys 
• Label claims, eco-logos,         
    ingredient listing• Social media postings
• Postings on company 
    websiteBrands – Customer Engagement; Integrating Sustainability
Products – Safe Ingredients; Disclosure
Packaging
Our Retail Customers  
and Partners• Trade partner supplier 
    expectations
• Commercial partner inquiries  
    or surveys• Meetings, conferences, 
    presentationsBrands – Customer Engagement; Integrating Sustainability
Products - Disclosure
Packaging
Responsible Sourcing
Environment
Our Peers and Suppliers• Peer benchmarking
• Supplier meetings • Assessments and disclosure 
    requests
• Trade meetings, conferences 
    or presentationsProducts - Disclosure
Packaging
Shareholders and  
Investor Groups• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings 
• Investor conferences
• Individual communications (written, telephone or web-based)Brands – Customer Engagement
Products – Safe Ingredients; Disclosure
Packaging
Employees – D&I; Health & Safety
Environment – Energy and GHGs
Government and  
Regulatory Bodies• Monitoring of regulatory activity             • Inspections and surveys
• Face-to-face meetingsProducts – Safe Ingredients; Disclosure
Employees – Health & Safety
Environment – Regulatory Compliance
Non-Governmental 
Organizations (NGOs)• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings 
• Reporting and disclosure expectationsProducts – Safe Ingredients; Disclosure
Packaging
Responsible Sourcing – Palm Oil
Environment
Industry Trade Associations• Business association newsletters, updates or mailings
• Working groups
• Participation in boards, advisory councilsProducts - Disclosure
Packaging
Environment
Local Communities and 
Community Groups• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings
• Charitable donations
• Sharing of best practicesBrands – Customer Engagement
Community Outreach
Media• Direct inquiries and feedback
• Communications (written, telephone or web-based)Brands – Customer Engagement
Community Outreach19In addition to the methods already outlined, we also connect with stakeholders  
through industry groups, associations and coalitions including the following:
visit website to learn more
visit website to learn more visit website to learn morevisit website to learn more visit website to learn more20visit website to learn more
visit website to learn more visit website to learn more visit website to learn morevisit website to learn more21visit website to learn more
visit website to learn more visit website to learn morevisit website to learn more visit website to learn more22CLIMATE CHANGE
One of the most significant risks that the world faces today relates to 
climate change. While it is widely recognized that continued emission 
of greenhouse gases (GHGs) will cause further warming of the planet 
that could then lead to damaging economic and social consequences, 
the exact timing and severity of physical effects are difficult to 
estimate. At Church & Dwight, we recognize the need to reduce our 
carbon footprint. We are trying to do our part through resource 
efficiencies, business resilience, renewable energy use and a reduced 
carbon footprint. Our understanding of the full carbon footprint 
of our business continues to improve, as we develop more robust 
analyses and build upon our engagement opportunities throughout 
our operations.
The urgency of climate change requires us to rethink how we plan for 
the future. It pushes us to develop new business models, partnerships, 
solutions and products for a more resilient company. In 2020 we 
continued efforts to align our evaluation and reporting of our efforts 
to reduce our carbon footprint with the  Recommendations of 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  
to identify key climate risks and potential opportunities across 
our business. More detailed information on all of these topics is 
included in our CDP Climate Change Response. In 2020, Church & 
Dwight received an A- score on our CDP Climate Change Response, 
an improvement from a B score in 2019, and a recognition of the 
significant level of transparency and commitment behind our 
management of climate change impacts. 
The following disclosures regarding governance, strategy, risk 
management  and metrics and targets are intended to align with 
TCFD’s recommended disclosure framework. 
23GOVERNANCE
The Governance & Nominating Committee of our Board of 
Directors oversees the environmental pillar of our sustainability 
and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) program, in 
addition to other aspects of ESG. Through that Committee and our 
strategic planning process, the Board is actively engaged with our climate 
change strategy and supporting action plans and annual budgets and business 
plans, providing oversight and endorsement for our goal to be carbon neutral 
by 2025.
Our Corporate Issues Council (The Council) has direct management 
responsibility for our sustainability and ESG  program, including our climate 
change strategy. The Council is comprised of senior executives, subject matter 
experts and other representatives across various functions. Our Executive 
Vice President and General Counsel, who is a member of The Council, 
meets quarterly with the Governance & Nominating Committee, together 
with subject matter experts from The Council, to review the health of our 
sustainability and ESG program, its priorities, and the status of execution 
against those priorities.
This framework for Board oversight is designed to facilitate the integration 
of sustainability risks, including climate change, into our overall strategic 
processes. The Council monitors climate-related issues such as emerging 
regulations, extreme weather and business continuity, and changing market 
forces on an ongoing basis. 
We regularly receive communications and inquiries from our stakeholders 
regarding our sustainability practices and our management of climate-related 
issues, and this also informs our understanding of important areas to address. 
The Council evaluates and ranks various risks and opportunities based on 
relative impact and likelihood, discusses the most significant sustainability 
issues, risks and opportunities we face, and determines which of our internal 
functions should be accountable for them. Stakeholder issues are included on 
the agenda for each of The Council’s meetings and sustainability issues raised 
by investors and other stakeholders are reviewed with the Board’s Governance 
& Nominating Committee at each of its meetings.
24STRATEGY
Our primary environmental strategic goal is for operations owned and 
controlled by us to be carbon neutral by 2025, by offsetting our carbon 
emissions through energy savings projects, renewable energy credits, onsite 
solar projects and planting trees. We are actively evaluating the feasibility of 
setting science-based climate mitigation targets. As part of that process, we 
anticipate using scenario analysis to inform potential future targets taking 
into account the share of carbon we would need to reduce to help keep global 
climate change safely below the 2-degree threshold aligned with the Paris 
Agreement targets.
In addition to our impact on the climate in the form of carbon emissions, we 
further recognize the impacts that climate change may have on our operations, 
including extreme weather, water and other resource restrictions, and 
increased temperature impacts on food production and other natural resource 
production. These impacts are acknowledged in our business planning and 
strategy. For example:
• We are responding to increased customer and consumer demand for 
sustainable products by participating in the Center for Resource Solutions’ 
Green-e clean energy certification program and expanding our use of post-
consumer recycled material in packaging.
• T o improve our understanding of climate change impacts in our supply chain, 
we have increased the level of engagement with contract manufacturers. 
We expect to have a comprehensive inventory of our Scope 3 emissions  
completed during the first half of 2021. Scope 3 emissions are the result of 
activities from assets not owned or controlled by us, but that our organization 
indirectly impacts in its value chain.
• We invest in R&D for new products and packaging formulated to minimize 
water requirements, reduce package weight and increase recyclability of 
packaging – all of which help reduce our Scope 3 emissions.
25Our Approach to Climate Resilience
In considering our overall climate resilience strategy, we think of 
resilience as both our capacity to recover from and adapt to the 
physical impacts of climate change, and our ability to respond to 
the impacts of policy and market shifts brought about in response 
to climate change. These efforts impact many of the issues 
explored in this Report, including being active water stewards, 
reducing packaging waste, encouraging our suppliers to produce 
our ingredients in more sustainable ways, and considering the 
climate impacts of our operations as we innovate for increased 
efficiency and better value creation.
The ARM & HAMMER Brand Delivers Innovation with  
new CLEAN & SIMPLE® Laundry Detergent
In 2020, we launched CLEAN & SIMPLE, a one-of-a-kind laundry detergent that 
delivers a powerful clean with just six essential ingredients and water. CLEAN & 
SIMPLE meets EPA Safer Choice product standards to be safer for families, pets 
and the planet. Providing consumers with the high quality, value and powerful clean 
expected from the ARM & HAMMER brand, CLEAN & SIMPLE offers consumers 
everything they need and nothing they don’t. Compared to some other leading 
laundry detergents containing 10 to 30 ingredients, CLEAN & SIMPLE contains only 
six essential ingredients: a hard-working cleaner, an active stain fighter, a laundry 
booster, pure baking soda, a water softener and a gentle fragrance in addition to 
water. Each of the six ingredients are designed to play an essential role in delivering  
a powerful clean. The product is also free of unnecessary chemicals,  
preservatives, dyes, phosphates, or parabens. 
OPPORTUNITIES
• Products and services –  We continue to identify opportunities 
for new products and packaging formulated to minimize water or 
energy requirements in manufacture or consumer use and increase 
recyclability of packaging. Examples of product improvements already 
implemented include dry shampoo, laundry products tailored to high-
efficiency appliances, and greater recyclability of our products through 
How2Recycle labeling.  
• Access to new markets – We recognize that our customers and 
consumers are increasingly demanding transparency regarding our 
efforts to mitigate our impacts on climate change. We continuously 
strive to respond to customer and consumer concerns or perceptions 
regarding environmental, social and governance practices for 
packaging materials, such as plastic packaging, and their sustainability 
performance. In 2020, our continued progress in key areas of 
sustainability earned recognition from various third parties, as noted in 
this Report. Activities that help establish and improve this reputation 
enable us to maintain existing markets and expand into other markets 
and consumer segments where these ideals are also valued. 
• Resource efficiency - Reducing energy use will reduce the costs 
associated with procuring and managing energy, materials, water, etc.
Our primary environmental strategic goal is for operations owned and 
controlled by us to be carbon neutral by 2025, by offsetting our carbon 
emissions through energy savings projects, renewable energy credits, 
onsite solar project and planting trees. As part of this goal, facility-level 
goals seek to reduce total energy consumption or at minimum, remain 
energy neutral on a year-to-year basis. T o achieve this, our plants have 
implemented a variety of energy efficiency projects.
Our CDP Climate Change Response contains more detailed information 
regarding the impact of these opportunities and the following risks on our 
business, strategy and financial planning.
2627RISK MANAGEMENT
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors 
oversees our enterprise risk assessment program, 
and our ethics and compliance program, each 
of which is  supported by our Internal Audit 
department. 
We actively manage climate-related risks in a way that 
is integrated with our overall business risk management 
approach. Our Internal Audit department administers 
a vigorous risk assessment effort every other year, in 
collaboration with all of our directors and executive officers. 
This process is designed to identify and rank the most 
significant risks that affect us as a  company by considering  
the  risks associated with companies in the consumer 
products industry. The assessed risks include sustainability 
risks, as well as other risks such as economic, industry, 
enterprise, operational, compliance and financial risks. As 
part of the risk management process, our Internal Audit 
department annually prepares an Internal Audit project plan 
under which it reviews activities directed to mitigate business 
and financial related risks. This plan is subject to approval by 
the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Our Internal 
Audit Director meets quarterly with our executive officers to 
assess any changes in the magnitude of identified risks, as well 
as the status of mitigation activities with regard to the most 
significant risks. The Internal Audit Director reports quarterly 
to the Audit Committee.
28A few examples of  our most significant climate-related risks, 
as set forth in our Annual Report, are discussed below: 
• Reduced availability of transportation or disruptions in our 
transportation network could adversely affect us.  
We distribute our products and receive raw materials and packaging 
components primarily by truck, rail and ship and through various ports 
of entry. Reduced availability of trucking, rail or shipping capacity due to 
adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, including climatic events 
(including any potential effect of climate change), could cause us to incur 
unanticipated expenses and impair our ability to distribute our products 
or receive our raw materials or packaging components in a timely manner, 
which could disrupt our operations, strain our customer relationships and 
competitive position.  
• We are subject to increasing focus and sensitivity by 
governmental, non-governmental organizations, customers, 
consumers and investors to sustainability issues, including 
those related to climate change.  As climate change, land use,  
water use, deforestation, recyclability or recoverability of packaging, 
plastic waste, ingredients and other ESG and sustainability concerns 
become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments, non-
governmental organizations and our customers, consumers and 
investors are increasingly sensitive to these issues. This increased focus 
on sustainability may result in new laws, regulations and requirements 
that could cause disruptions in or increased costs associated with 
manufacturing our products. This could cause us to incur additional costs 
or to make changes to our operations to comply with any of the foregoing. 
We could also lose revenue if our consumers change brands or our 
customers move business from us because we have not complied with their 
ESG and sustainability requirements. Also, environmentally-conscious 
investors may choose not to invest in our Common Stock if we do not 
comply with their business expectations.
29We have recognized that our customers and consumers are increasingly 
demanding transparency regarding our efforts to mitigate our impacts on climate 
change. For example, during 2020, some of our major customers requested we 
respond to various questionnaires, including the Climate Disclosure Project 
(CDP) Climate Change and Forests Questionnaires and use our responses and 
CDP grades to evaluate us. Efforts to meet these standards could impact our 
costs, and failure to meet our customers’ expectations could impact our sales.
Certain of our business activities and the production of some of the materials 
used in our products and certain of our business activities, including petroleum 
based, agricultural and forest materials, and the growing global demand for 
livestock products which is a focus of our Animal and Food Production business, 
contribute to deforestation and climate change and reduction in biodiversity, 
and can adversely impact water quality and availability, people and communities. 
Climate change is, in turn, a threat to each of those activities. While we strive 
to minimize the environmental impact of our global operations, a potential 
loss in business could result from reduced demand for our products and loss of 
customers if we do not meet their expectations related to our efforts towards 
sustainability and fighting climate change.
Additional climate-related risks and opportunities that are 
relevant to our business, over the short, medium, and long  
term follow: 
• Current regulations - The evaluation of applicability of current climate 
change regulations to our existing operations is primarily the responsibility of 
our Environmental & Safety Operations Department. For example, we track 
the applicability of greenhouse gas emissions reporting requirements at all 
of our locations in the U.S. and elsewhere. All our U.S.-based operations are 
currently below the USEPA 25,000 metric tonnes per facility greenhouse gas 
reporting threshold. Likewise, our international manufacturing operation 
emissions are below their respective reporting thresholds. This responsibility 
also includes evaluating new acquisitions for regulatory applicability. Relevant 
risks are included on the agenda of our Corporate Issues Council (The Council).
30• Emerging Regulations –  The evaluation of emerging climate change 
regulations to existing and new operations is the responsibility of our 
Law and Environmental & Safety Operations departments, as well as The 
Council. Additionally, our Chemicals of Concern Committee monitors and 
tracks emerging data and trends for chemicals that are being reviewed 
for environmental impact. Each department has a responsibility to ensure 
that proposed relevant legislation and regulations are included on the 
agenda of The Council. For example, we are monitoring global regulatory 
trends regarding carbon pricing and tax frameworks, particularly in the 
EU. Facilities may need to allocate additional staff resources in the future 
if lower reporting thresholds for greenhouse gas emissions are enacted.
• T echnology -  We have publicly stated goals which include climate 
related risks, such as greenhouse gas reductions. Relevant technology 
that could assist in achieving the goals is evaluated by various 
departments throughout the organization, for example, lighting efficiency 
improvements that will reduce energy consumption, or new energy 
monitoring technologies that could create energy savings opportunities. 
Risks may be associated with cost-effective technology not being 
available to continue reducing our energy consumption into the future.
• Legal -  Any sustainability-related legal issues that could have a material 
impact on us are evaluated and discussed by The Council. T o date, we 
have not identified any climate-related risks associated with actual or 
potential litigation against us.
• Market –  Our customers and the relevant climate change issues 
that are important to their sustainability strategies are relevant and 
important to us. We respond to their inquiries of our operations, 
implement appropriate product formulation, and make adjustments to 
meet many global initiatives. For instance, major retailers that sell our 
products are requesting greenhouse gas reduction initiatives from their 
suppliers, and we are responsive to this market-based factor. We discuss 
climate-related issues during face-to-face meetings and other forms of 
engagement with our customers, such as participating in both customer 
and industry association reporting initiatives.
31• Supply Chain -  Since our founding in in 1846, we have maintained an exceptional 
reputation through the ARM & HAMMER logo and brand. We have established 
Global Operations Guiding Principles and expect our operations and suppliers 
to adhere to these principles, which address environmentally responsible  
manufacturing processes. Through responsible management of climate change 
issues as well as other sustainability challenges, we seek to preserve and enhance 
our corporate reputation and the value of our brands. Feedback from customers, 
consumers, press, social media and other stakeholders is regularly monitored. 
Relevant issues are elevated to appropriate functions and The Council based on 
significance.
• Acute Physical –  We actively monitor the climate change issues that could 
have an acute effect on our operations such as increased severity of weather-
related events. For example, some of our coastal facilities may be subject to 
business interruption due to climate-related risk of storm damage or flooding. 
We have established business continuity plans for our operations designed to 
be implemented in the event of a natural or man-made event. These plans are 
customized to address relevant concerns at each location. In addition, our supply 
chain relies upon the availability of shipping facilities to bring raw materials and 
intermediate goods into the U.S. In recent years, hurricanes and tropical storms 
have affected port operations and severe weather/flooding in the central U.S. has 
disrupted rail service which has posed a potential business risk of supply chain 
interruption to our operations.
• Chronic physical - Water availability is a significant factor for some of our 
manufacturing sites. We manufacture products such as laundry detergent and other 
cleaning products that contain water as an ingredient. Future water scarcity could 
result in increased operating costs for manufacturing these products. Our publicly 
stated goals are to reduce the impact of our operations and transportation by 
reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, support the generation of renewable energy 
and a commitment  to reducing our water consumption through appropriate product 
reformulations and an active program that evaluates opportunities to reduce water 
usage and to use water more efficiently at our plants. We have locations that are 
near the oceans, including our facilities in Folkestone, UK, and Lakewood, NJ, and 
such locations may be affected by rising sea levels. We monitor chronic conditions 
such as sea level rise, temperature increases, water quality and availability.
32Public Focus on Sustainability.  As climate change and other ESG and 
sustainability concerns become more prevalent, our stakeholders are 
increasingly sensitive to these issues. We have recognized that our 
customers and consumers are demanding more transparency regarding 
our efforts to mitigate climate change impacts. During 2020, some of 
our major customers requested we respond to various questionnaires, 
including the CDP Climate Change and Forests Questionnaires. We 
engage with these customers on an ongoing basis to understand and 
align with their climate-related requirements.
METRICS AND TARGETS
GHG emissions are associated with all aspects of our supply chain and 
product use. Raw materials production, transportation to the point of 
manufacture, product distribution and product use all have impacts. We 
define our GHG emissions inventory to include those emissions over 
which we have direct control. This includes Scope 1 direct emissions from 
our operated facilities, and Scope 2 indirect emissions from our operated 
facilities (primarily electricity and steam purchases). We also include our 
Scope 3 emissions associated with transport of our finished products to 
our first point of customer contact (in the U.S. and Canada) and corporate 
business travel. We expect to have a comprehensive inventory of our 
Scope 3 emissions  completed during the first half of 2021. Scope 3 
emissions are the result of activities from assets not owned or controlled 
by us, but that our organization indirectly impacts in its value chain.
We recognize that emissions in our supply chain contribute significantly 
to our overall footprint. Therefore, in 2020, we began the process to fully 
analyze our emissions in the supply chain for all 15 categories aligned 
with The GHG Protocol’s Corporate Value Chain Accounting Standard. 
The results of this analysis will be published in our 2021 CDP Climate 
Change Response and used to engage our supply chain to track and 
reduce emissions in the future.
33Our absolute GHG emissions in 2020 increased approximately 
3% over 2019. Global GHG emissions from manufacturing 
operations (Scope 1 + Scope 2) were up 0.1% (essentially flat) 
in 2020 over 2019 with increases in Scope 1 emissions offset 
by reductions in Scope 2 emissions. This was achieved during a 
period of increased production at many of our manufacturing 
facilities to meet increased COVID-19 pandemic demand 
for our products such as  cleaners, baking soda, laundry 
detergent and other household products. Our Scope 3 (North 
America Transportation+ business travel) emissions were up 
nearly 7% in 2020  due primarily to increased truck traffic 
associated with getting those increased demand products to 
our customers. 
Normalized total GHG emissions to million pounds of product 
shipped was reduced by 4% in 2020. While the normalized 
metric reductions were a positive achievement in 2020, 
neither normalized metric was able to achieve our standing 
10% reduction goal. The following chart provides the net and 
normalized GHG emissions. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG)*
2020 2019 2018
GHG Emissions- Scope 1 
(MT CO2e) 93,161 87,540 89,402
GHG Emissions- Scope 2 
(MT CO2e)72,640 78,157 80,808
GHG Emissions- Scope 1+ Scope 2 
(MT CO2e)165,801 165,697 170,210
GHG Emissions- Scope 3-North America 
Transportation Operations (MT CO2e)225,956 213,892 224,579
GHG Emissions – (T otal Scope 1 + 2 + 3)  
(MT of CO2e)391,756 379,590 394,788
GHG Intensity (Scope 1 + Scope 2)
(MTs of CO2e /MM pounds of product 
shipped)27 29 31
GHG Intensity (T otal by product shipped)
(MTs of CO2e /MM pounds of product 
shipped)64 67 71
GHG Intensity (T otal by USD Sales)
(MTs of CO2e /MM USD Sales)80 87 95
*All GHG values have been updated to reflect GHG emission factors in GHG Protocol/IEA v14 (11/2020) - IEA 2020; Defra v9.0 (09/2020); and/or 
the most current country emission factors available in the applicable Sphera Cloud Corporate Sustainability platform library.
As a result, 2018-2019 data differ from what was reported in our previous Sustainability Report.
34Our primary environmental strategic goal is for all 
global operations owned and controlled by us to be 
carbon neutral by 2025, by offsetting our carbon emissions 
through energy savings projects, renewable energy credits 
(RECs), onsite solar project and planting trees. Carbon emissions 
associated with electricity use are currently 100% offset by 
RECs, while our Scope 1 and defined Scope 3 emissions are 
partially offset by certified forestry credits through the Arbor Day 
Foundation®. 
In 2020 our operational goal was to maintain manufacturing 
operations as carbon neutral compared to 2019 to minimize 
the offsets required. In 2020 we had a 0.1% increase in total 
GHG emissions from operations (combined Scope 1 + Scope 2). 
We achieved this goal in our manufacturing operation through 
various energy reduction programs and projects, primarily related 
to electricity use. In fact, our GHG Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
associated with combined fuel and electricity use were down 
approximately 3,000 metric tonnes of CO2e compared to 2019, 
but miscellaneous GHG emissions (direct process losses, landfill 
emissions and refrigerant losses) were slightly higher, resulting 
in the net zero increase in our combined Scope 1 + Scope 2 
emissions. Increased product demand and shipments outpaced 
any transportation savings efforts in 2020 and as a result our 
Scope 3 transportation GHG was higher.  
In 2020, through electric power RECs and certified carbon 
forestry credits, we were able to offset a total of 64.4% of our 
combined Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions.  
352018 2019 202080
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0T otal GHG per product shipped
(tonnes CO2e/MM lb shipped)
2018 2019 202035
30
25
20
15
10
5
0Scope 1+ Scope 2 GHG per product shipped  
(tonnes CO2e/MM lb shipped)
Natural gas is our primary energy source (56% of total energy 
use in gigajoules, GJ) followed by electricity (approximately 35%) and 
purchased steam (approximately 8%). Remaining fuel sources including 
diesel, gasoline and propane represent <1.5% combined.
362020 was a particularly challenging year due 
to unprecedented demand for some of our 
products. As a result, many of our plant operations set 
production output records and it was only through ongoing 
energy reduction efforts that we were able to continue 
an overall energy reduction trend. As shown on the 
accompanying graphs, natural gas represents the largest 
energy source used for our operations.
Our natural gas, electricity and purchased steam use over 
the past several years illustrates that our use of kilowatt-
hour (KWH) of electricity and tons of purchased steam has 
helped reduce our overall energy consumption. In 2020 
electricity use was down -3%, purchased steam was down 
-34%, while natural gas use was up 4%.
Implementation of several energy reduction projects 
has enabled us to minimize increases in our energy use, 
specifically purchased steam and electricity. Some examples 
are highlighted on the following page. These efforts to curb 
energy usage while continuing to grow are truly global in 
scale, and exemplify our continuing commitment.
2020 Energy Use (% of total GJ)
37STEAM DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM 
MADE A PRIORITY 
We purchase steam at our Green River, WY plant from 
an adjacent industrial facility under a long-standing 
agreement. We achieved significant energy savings in 
2020 through a comprehensive program of assessment, 
repair and maintenance of the decades-old steam 
distribution system.
SOLAR IN NEW PL YMOUTH
In November 2020, we completed installation of our 
first on-site solar energy generation project, located 
at our facility in New Plymouth, New Zealand. Power 
from 54 individual 440-watt panels will supply over 30 
MWh or 50% of the plant’s annual electricity and reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions by 25 tonnes per year.
38SPARKFUND-IMPROVED LIGHTING  
AND HV AC PERFORMANCE
Since 2019, we have partnered with Sparkfund to 
change the way we manage our building energy use.  
Five of our operating locations have partnered with Sparkfund to 
install, maintain and manage new LED lighting systems at their site.  
This turn-key approach puts responsibility for maintenance and 
monitoring of the lighting system in Sparkfund’s hands, reduces 
capital necessary to re-lamp our sites, and provides the benefit of 
energy savings associated with the new LED lighting. Our Colonial 
Heights, Virginia plant is also piloting Sparkfund management of 
their HVAC systems. In 2019/2020 Sparkfund lighting and HVAC 
projects reduced our electricity needs by an estimated 8 million 
KWH per year (equivalent to approximately 2,800 metric tonnes of 
CO2e). Additional projects expected to save an additional 2 million 
KWH annually are being assessed for 2021.
ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS  
DATA VERIFICATION
For our 2020 energy and GHG data, we have contracted with an 
independent third party, ERM CVS to evaluate and assure that 
our energy data collection process and emissions calculations 
are rigorous, inclusive and accurate. The resulting verification 
statement is not available as of the publication of this Report, but 
will be included with our annual CDP Climate Change Response.
39In 2016 we partnered with The Arbor Day Foundation® to offset 
carbon dioxide emissions through the planting of millions of 
trees in the Mississippi River valley and protecting existing 
forests.  Our partnership offsets the carbon dioxide emissions generated 
from the use of fossil fuels (primarily natural gas) from our operations and 
other emissions, such as transportation emissions. In 2020, we increased our 
commitment to this partnership for verifiable emissions reduction credits with 
a multiyear $5 million investment. The Arbor Day Foundation® has become 
the largest nonprofit membership organization dedicated to planting millions 
of trees with more than one million members, supporters and partners. Our 
partnership is described as follows:
Church & Dwight has grown to be the Foundation’s largest forestry carbon 
partner, resulting in the reduction and removal of over 878,000 metric tons of 
carbon from the atmosphere.
Verified carbon credits offer the private sector a pathway to engage in the 
protection, management and restoration of our critical ecosystems and forest 
communities. Crafted by the Arbor Day Foundation, our forestry carbon 
portfolio has expanded with the following high-quality global projects:
Protect - Alto Mayo Protected Forest: The Alto Mayo project conserves 
182,000 hectares of ecologically rich fauna and flora in the Peruvian 
Andean Amazon. By providing essential funding for forest management, 
and through a unique community-based conservation model involving over 
1,000 families, the project is effectively stemming some of the highest rates 
of deforestation in Peru’s protected areas and has successfully avoided 
over 17,000ha from being deforested.
40
Manage – Darkwoods Forest Conservation: This project zones and 
monitors different areas of 63,000 hectares of private Boreal forest 
in southeastern British Columbia and targets specific areas for: strict 
biodiversity protection by limiting/deactivating roads, infrastructure, and 
activity; public access; invasive species control, conservation research, and 
a low level of sustainable harvesting. The project leverages carbon finance 
to conserve critical ecosystems and carbon sequestration areas at an 
unprecedented scale.
Restore - Green Trees Reforestation Project: This work aims to reforest 
one million acres in the Mississippi River Alluvial Valley, one of the most 
important wetland ecoregions in North America. The project focuses on 
restoring degraded agricultural lands back to a highly beneficial, native 
forest ecosystem by helping landowners establish and grow trees on 
private lands that have been in continuous agricultural use for decades. 
Reforestation will aid the health of this vital watershed, restore habitat for 
threatened and endangered wildlife, and support the economic livelihoods 
of over 550 farming families.
"Nature-based climate solutions not only mitigate the 
environmental impact of daily business operations but 
also protect the ecosystems and economies that people 
and wildlife alike rely upon. Verified carbon reduction and 
removal is a vital near-term step for companies hoping to 
become carbon-neutral."  
 – Dan Lambe, president of the Arbor Day Foundation. 41We distribute ARMAKLEEN water-based cleaners that offer an 
effective and environmentally responsible way to remove grease, oil, 
rust, paint, ink, adhesives and other coatings from most metal and 
plastic surfaces.
ARMAKLEEN Bio 24 is a bio based, super 
concentrated, water based industrial parts washing 
cleaner/degreaser  designed to be used in the automotive, 
industrial, military and government cleaning applications. Bio 24 is 
formulated to work in manual, immersion, spray under immersion, 
ultrasonic and spray washing equipment to remove soils such as 
grease, lubricating oils, dirt and other soils from steel, copper, 
aluminum and other polymeric surfaces.
ARMAKLEEN Bio 24 is USDA certified as a Bio Preferred product 
and contains sustainable bio carbon containing ingredients 
(surfactants and additives) that are derived from plants and other 
renewable agricultural, marine or forestry materials.
ARMAKLEEN Bio 24 complies with the Green Seal™ GS-34 Standard 
for Cleaning and Degreasing Agents. 
The ingredients of ARMAKLEEN Bio 24 are also biodegradable. 
OUR BRANDS
Delight Consumers  
with Our Brands &  
Contribute T oward a  
More Sustainable World
Integrate sustainability into our  
brands and marketing efforts.
 Utilize our brands to drive awareness  
and engagement around sustainability.
4243
Our goal is to delight our customers and consumers 
with high-quality, affordable products. We continually 
challenge ourselves to create and develop products with new and 
distinctive features that meet ever-changing consumer needs and 
preferences. From the earliest design stages to the end of consumer 
use, we explore ways to reduce the environmental impacts of 
our product formulation and packaging. We have established 
sustainability goals related to our packaging and ingredients and 
will continue to provide updates on our progress in future reports.  
Meeting our goals requires:  
Removing, reducing and restricting the use of materials that  
may present human health or environmental toxicity risks
Optimizing product and package design to reduce or more 
efficient use of materials
Maximizing the use of sustainably sourced materials
Supporting recycling by designing with recyclable materials  
and communicating recyclability of the end use of our  
product packaging44BRAND SUPPORT IN THE COMMUNITIES 
Our VITAFUSION brand reached their goal of planting 
200,000 fruit trees in underserved communities by 2020. 
According to the CDC’s 2018 State Indicator Report on Fruits and 
Vegetables, only 12.2% of adults meet the recommended daily fruit intake 
with the driving factors being convenience and affordability. At a time when 
health and wellness are top of mind, our VITAFUSION brand reached its goal 
of planting 200,000 new fruit trees by the end of 2020. This accomplishment 
was part of our eco-initiative with the Fruit Tree Planting Foundation, whose 
mission is to deliver fresh, nutritious fruit in underserved communities 
across the globe, as well as make a positive impact on the environment, by 
creating fresh air and enriching the soil.
The social and environmental benefits of this 
program and 200,000 fruit trees will:
Provide more than 33 million pounds of oxygen
Produce 28 million pieces of fresh fruit
Eliminate 40 million pounds of CO2 from the air
45
“VITAFUSION is deeply rooted in health and wellness, 
making the Fruit Tree Planting Project our mission to 
provide communities with the nutrients they need.” 
  - Michael Vercelletto,  
Marketing Director of VITAFUSION“In 2020, we recognized accessibility to wholesome food options continues 
to challenge our society and we feel fortunate that we are able to do our part 
in bringing awareness of healthy living and environmental accountability. 
We look forward to seeing further impact as our trees grow along with the 
communities we serve for generations to come. ” says Michael Vercelletto, 
Marketing Director of VITAFUSION.
The Fruit Tree Planting Foundation is an international nonprofit dedicated 
to planting edible fruit trees and plants to benefit the environment and its 
inhabitants. Since 2017, the VITAFUSION brand has held 305 tree planting 
and/or distribution events around the world through the Fruit Tree Project, 
with 68 events in the U.S. and 237 internationally. The VITAFUSION brand 
and the Fruit Tree Planting Foundation have helped increase the accessibility 
of fresh fruit by planting trees at public schools, Native American 
communities, city parks, community gardens, low-income neighborhoods 
and hurricane-stricken areas.
WASHINGTON, D.C.DENVER, COPHILADELPHIA, PA
LOS ANGELES, CA
EL SALVADORUGANDAIn 2020 we planted over 71,000 trees, our highest yearly 
total over the course of the 4-year partnership, in the 
following communities.
46Our VITAFUSION brand Supported WhyHunger’s 
35th Annual Hungerthon to Increase Accessibility of 
Nutritious Foods and Invest in Long-T erm Solutions 
to End Hunger by Building Healthy Communities.
During the 2020 holiday season, our VITAFUSION brand team 
partnered with WhyHunger, a non-profit organization dedicated 
to ending world hunger and advancing the human right to 
nutritious food. This partnership with WhyHunger served to meet 
a skyrocketing rise in hunger across the U.S. with a projection that 
1 in 6 Americans will be hungry by the end of 2020.
The VITAFUSION brand team donated $85,000 to WhyHunger 
to help distribute grants to local food banks, food pantries, 
soup kitchens, and community farms located in cities currently 
experiencing food insecurity. Additionally, this partnership 
amplified WhyHunger’s premier fundraising event, the 35th 
Annual Hungerthon, to help WhyHunger exceed their fundraising 
goal of $1 Million by the end of 2020.
Our L’IL CRITTERS brand participated in the No 
Hunger Holidays program raising money and 
encouraging donations for needy families.  
The program raised $100K for struggling families through a Feed 
the Children social match campaign. Those donations provided 
600K meals to families in need. The brand team also donated 
8,500 vitamin sample packs.  “VITAFUSION is committed to taking fruitful steps towards 
a healthier, happier world. Through our partnership with 
WhyHunger, we look forward to supporting long-term solutions 
to end hunger while continuing to help people achieve and 
maintain a healthy lifestyle. Nutrition is a priority, and we 
recognize that malnutrition primarily stems from a lack of access.”
- Michael Vercelletto,
Marketing Director of VITAFUSION47FIRST RESPONSE SUPPORTED  
BIRTH JUSTICE
Our FIRST RESPONSE brand partnered with Every 
Mother Counts to support their 2020 Race for 
Birth Justice held in October 2020. The virtual race 
aimed to raise awareness and funds to support improving 
maternal health outcomes and combatting racial disparities 
in the U.S. Runners were incentivized to sign up with the 
opportunity to double their impact, as we matched the first  
100 runners to raise $500, up to $50,000! 
Our FIRST RESPONSE brand team amplified the race and 
helped raise awareness on the issue of birth justice on 
Instagram by engaging strong, diverse influencers including 
Danielle Brooks (Actress, Orange is the New Black), Sydney 
Leroux (Orlando Women’s Soccer Player) and Wanda Mulzac. 
With over 250 virtual runners, the race generated close 
to $150,000 that will go to underserved pregnant and 
childbearing women. 
48OUR TROJAN BRAND PROTECTED 
COMMUNITIES WITH SEXUAL HEALTH 
PROGRAMS, EDUCATION, AND DONATIONS 
As the manufacturer and distributor of TROJAN brand 
condoms, we are committed to complete sexual health 
through education, and increasing awareness among young 
adults in the U.S. about the risks of unprotected sex –  
notably unintended pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). 
In 2020, we: 
• Focused on delivering content to drive awareness of the risks of 
COVID-19 and educated our consumers by providing information from 
the NYC Department of Health about safe sex guidelines during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. By amplifying “CORONAVIRUS AND SEX: WHAT 
TO KNOW” on the brand website and social media, the TROJAN brand 
team helped educate our audience on maintaining their sexual health 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
• Created the “Sext us instead” social activation campaign, which 
encouraged consumers to forgo sex with others outside their home. 
Consumers were incentivized to practice self-pleasure as a safe 
alternative. By sending us a Direct Message on social media, consumers 
could receive a free lubricant or vibrator to enjoy pleasure on their own.  
49
• Encouraged consumers to stay home and stay safe during the COVID-19 
pandemic with the launch of “Rising Time, ” a 69-page cookbook designed 
to remind couples quarantining together that baking can be a fun and 
sexy way to spend some time. As part of the release of the free book, the 
TROJAN brand team donated 50,000 meals to those in need in conjunction 
with Feeding America.
• Worked with the Condom Collective – a youth-led grassroots movement to 
make the U.S. a sexually healthy nation – to donate more than one million 
condoms to student-run safe sites in a peer-to-peer program on college 
campuses. 
• Donated condoms to the American society for Emergency contraception 
to support their efforts in delivering STD and pregnancy prevention to 
students around the country. 
• Continued a tradition of donating more than one million condoms to 
health departments across the U.S. annually as a part of a long-standing 
partnership with the National Coalition of STD Directors. T ogether, we 
refocus attention, resources and consumer education on condoms as 
a highly effective form of STD and unintended pregnancy prevention. 
Through this partnership, which is referenced on our condom boxes, we 
also continue to support the “Condom Connect” Initiatives.  50TERRACYCLE® AND THE ARM & HAMMER BRAND 
CONTINUE POUCH RECYCLING PARTNERSHIP  
In 2020 we continued our partnership with local Trenton recycling partner 
T erraCycle® to provide innovative recycling solutions for ARM & HAMMER and 
OXICLEAN plastic pouches. Since its launch in 2018, the program has diverted 
48,631 baking soda and laundry pouches from landfills thanks to the creation of 
7,868 drop-off locations around the country. In 2020 we collected 150% more 
pouches than in 2019.
An estimated 400 million toothpaste tubes end up in landfills across America 
every year. The ARM & HAMMER brand team has partnered with T erraCycle® 
to create a way for consumers to curb this issue. The program works similarly to 
the recycling program we have for our ARM & HAMMER and OXICLEAN single 
dose detergent pouches, in that consumers can go to our website  to download a 
shipping label to return their empty tubes to T erraCycle®, who will process them. 
We are excited about this partnership and will be calling out the recycling option 
on-pack during our upcoming packaging refresh.  
ARM & HAMMER toothpaste is made with 100% certified renewable electricity 
and CO2 emissions that are offset with wind energy, and by supporting the 
planting of millions of trees in the Mississippi River Valley. Our ORAJEL  
brand has also made this this commitment through its support of the Arbor 
Day Foundation and use of Green-e labeling. 
We also are evaluating a partnership with Loop, a T erraCycle® company, to 
create durable, reusable packaging to help combat waste by eliminating single 
use packaging. Our plan is to add our OXICLEAN versatile stain remover and 
ARM & HAMMER baking soda products to the Loop store in 2021. Pending 
successful testing and launch, we hope to add many more products to the Loop 
store in the future. Learn more about the Loop system here.
51We launched a media campaign focused on the sustainable 
behavior of preserving the clothes and things you love.  
In partnership with Treehugger & the Spruce, we got the word out to 
consumers about simple ways to make the things you love last longer. 
Keeping clothes looking newer longer and saving stained furniture and 
clothing is what our OXICLEAN brand is all about.
The ARM & HAMMER Pet Care brand is passionate about 
pet adoption. In 2020, the brand formalized its mission in supporting 
overlooked shelter cats and continued partnering with animal shelters  
across the country to raise awareness for pets needing fur-ever homes.  
This included: 
• Dedicating a shining light on ‘purrfectly impurrfect cats, ’ a campaign 
through our ARM & HAMMER Feline Generous platform.
• Invited rescue organizations and cat lovers across the country to nominate 
any shelter cat(s) overlooked because of their age, appearance or 
misunderstood personalities with the goal of helping these cats find loving 
fur-ever homes. 
• After receiving close to 2,000 submissions, a panel of judges selected three 
winning cats and each of their shelters received $10,000. 
• Supporting and sponsoring local shelter partners throughout the year; in 
total, we donated $50,600 to various rescue organizations.
• Continuing our tradition of donating litter to shelters around the country 
through our plant network, providing over 1,000,000 pounds in 2020.
52THE ARM & HAMMER BRAND TEAM SPONSORED 
STEM COMPETITION ODYSSEY OF THE MIND™ 
In 2020, we continued our partnership with Odyssey of the 
Mind™, an international STEM competition  where students in 
kindergarten through college work together to solve creative problems at the 
regional, state, and world level.
For over 170 years, the ARM & HAMMER brand team has been committed to 
encouraging inventive problem-solving from the kitchen, to the outdoors, to the 
classroom, empowering millions of consumers to dream up countless versatile 
uses for the product. 
Starting with the 2019-2020 tournament year, we integrated the program 
through the following:
• Sponsoring a problem where teams will use ARM & HAMMER baking soda as 
a key element in their solution and performance. 
• Providing $100,000 in sponsorship grants to help more student teams 
participate in the program.
• Launching an augmented reality “Hammer Force” mobile game that teaches 
students about the power of baking soda in practical scientific applications.
• Activating virtual events at Odyssey of the Mind™ World Finals in May 2021 
to provide edu-tainment to the thousands of teams and families  
in attendance.
This partnership will help us to advance our mission of championing innovative 
thinking and we are excited to see the creative solutions these powerful young 
minds come up with!
53OUR SPECIALTY HAIR CARE BRANDS 
PARTNER WITH CONSCIOUS BEAUTY  
AT ULTA BEAUTY™
Conscious Beauty at Ulta Beauty™ empowers consumers with 
transparency and choice to be able to identify clean, cruelty free, 
vegan, and sustainably-packaged brands and products. It also 
highlights brands that positively impact our communities and planet.
The Specialty Hair Care brands met the qualifications  
for the pillars below:
BATISTE - Sustainable Packaging
VIVISCAL - Clean Ingredients
TOPPIK - Clean Ingredients
NAIR - Clean Ingredients
PRODUCTS
Provide Safe &  
Effective Products  
for Consumers &  
the Environment
Remove 100% of Chemicals of  
Concern1 from formulated products  
by end of 2021 and timely elimination 
from acquired products.
Provide transparency by disclosing 
ingredients on all formulated products. 
1. The chemicals of concern are derived from applicable global 
regulations and customer / retailer guidelines. 
5455We have strict policies and procedures in place to 
ensure that our products are safe and effective for 
consumers and the environment worldwide  and that our 
products comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Our robust 
and comprehensive product evaluation strategy includes:
• Ingredient disclosure
• Removal of chemicals of concern
• Four-step ingredient and product safety assurance process
• Fragrance and flavor assurance process; and
• Product regulatory compliance
With the guidance of toxicologists, trade associations, and external 
scientific experts  we closely monitor latest science, mandates and 
emerging regulations and make necessary changes to our strategy 
and standards.
INGREDIENT DISCLOSURE
All ingredients found in Church & Dwight products 
worldwide are disclosed on-line or on pack.
We devote significant attention and care to transparently disclosing 
ingredient and safety information for our products. Safety Data 
Sheets for our products are available on our website. We disclose 
ingredients in all our products in accordance with the relevant 
federal regulations full ingredient transparency. T o that end, all of 
our global products have on-line or on pack ingredient disclosure. 
While all our brands work to meet consumer needs safely, our 
VITAFUSION and L ’IL CRITTERS brands are exemplary of the 
transparency and simple effectiveness we seek to achieve. America’s 
#1 gummy vitamin brands offer products that are 100% free of 
artificial flavors, high fructose corn syrup, synthetic (FD&C) dyes, 
gluten and dairy. 
56
REMOV AL OF CHEMICALS OF CONCERN
We are committed to developing safe and sustainable 
products for our consumers and the environment,  including the 
identification and removal of Chemicals of Concern from our formulated 
(consumer) products, developing new products that meet our Chemicals 
of Concern process, and being transparent about the ingredients in our 
products. The COVID 19 pandemic in 2020 affected our ability to run the 
studies necessary to completely eliminate our Chemicals of Concern from 
formulated products by 2020. However, even with this delay, 97.9% of the 
identified Chemicals of Concern were eliminated from our products by the 
end of 2020. Our goal is to complete the removal of 100% of the identified 
Chemicals of Concern in 2021, and the timely elimination from acquired 
products thereafter.
We identify potential Chemicals of Concern through Regulatory 
Intelligence of emerging global chemical restrictions and bans (i.e. EPA, 
California Proposition 65, ECHA), Industry Association and Standards 
monitoring (i.e. IFRA), and the concerns of our customers, consumers and 
stakeholders. As chemicals are being evaluated for restriction or ban, our 
Chemicals of Concern Committee, consisting of representatives from R&D, 
Product Stewardship, Safety and T oxicology, addresses these chemicals 
in terms of the safety and sustainability of our products. As a result of this 
review, chemicals are designated as Chemicals of Concern, or are added to 
our watch list until the there is sufficient data to establish their safety.
Chemicals designated as Chemicals of Concern are added to our master 
Chemicals of Concern list. Chemicals on this list will not be intentionally 
used in any of our formulations going forward, and a plan will be developed 
to eliminate the chemical from any existing formulations. In 2020, the ARM & HAMMER brand continued  
“Our Promise to You and The Planet.”  In Q4 2020, we began 
to roll out the Not T ested on Animals logo. Additionally, in accordance 
with new ingredient disclosure regulations, effective January 1, 2020 all 
ARM & HAMMER laundry product labels and websites began to include 
full ingredient listings, delivering clear communication to the consumer 
about what is in our products. 57FOUR-STEP INGREDIENT AND PRODUCT 
SAFETY ASSURANCE PROCESS
T o meet the goal of safe and sustainable products, we have developed  
a four-step ingredient and product assurance process:
Ingredient Selection:  Evaluate the efficacy and safety of each 
ingredient at its proposed concentration level, using published 
regulatory lists, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
Safer Choice Ingredient list and Chemicals of Concern as identified.
Ingredient/Finished Product Evaluation: Determine potential human 
exposure and evaluate the safety of proposed ingredients/products 
under normal use and reasonably foreseeable misuse conditions.
Pre-market Safety Clearance: Develop a pre-market safety dossier 
on the finished product to ensure that all safety and sustainability 
criteria are reviewed prior to manufacture and prior to shipment  
to customers.
Post-market Evaluation: Conduct post-market surveillance and 
gather customer and consumer feedback.
FRAGRANCE AND FLA VOR  
ASSURANCE PROCESS
Fragrances and flavors are important to our consumers, and we take 
care to tailor our products to their preferences, while assuring that 
all ingredients used to create these attributes are safe and meet our 
Chemicals of Concern process. We design all fragrance mixtures to 
comply with the safety standards set by the International Fragrance 
Association, and all flavor mixtures to those of the Flavor and Extract 
Manufacturers Association and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 
We also conduct comprehensive safety reviews on all fragrances used, 
based on expected patterns of consumer use. As existing fragrance and 
flavor ingredients come under regulatory review, we review them through 
our Chemicals of Concern process. Additionally, we specially manufacture 
mild and fragrance-free products for consumers with sensitive skin.  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 58PRODUCT REGULATORY COMPLIANCE
Our products are subject to regulation by one or more U.S. 
agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(“FDA”), the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the 
Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”), and foreign 
agencies. We closely monitor all applicable regulations and 
make appropriate changes as regulations and standards 
evolve over time. The FDA regulations govern a variety 
of matters, such as product development, manufacturing, 
premarket clearance or approval, labeling and distribution.  
We continuously update our processes and quality systems 
to remain in compliance and to successfully meet periodic 
inspections by the FDA and other agencies. We also sell 
products that fully meet the EPA regulations under the  
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and the 
T oxic Substances Control Act. Our first and foremost 
priority is our consumers safety and therefore, we 
closely comply with the CPSC regulations regarding 
consumer product safety and the Poison Prevention Packaging 
Act such as special child resistant packaging for some of  
our products.
PACKAGING
Ensure greater than 95% of global  
product packaging is recyclable by the  
end of 2025.
Ensure all non-pharma product packaging  
is free from PVC, including timely  
elimination from newly acquired products.
Source all paper and board packaging from 
recycled material and/or sustainably managed 
forests ensuring compliance for all future 
product acquisitions.
Increase Post Consumer Recycled plastic to a 
minimum of 25% average across all global plastic 
packaging by end of 2025.Utilize Consumer-
Friendly and 
Environmentally  
Responsible Packaging
5960We are committed to developing and producing 
consumer friendly and environmentally responsible 
packaging improvements across all our global brands.  
As part of our Post Consumer Recycled (PCR) goals, we will drive 
down the usage of virgin plastics across the portfolio and will look 
to alternative non-plastic solutions where possible.
PLASTIC PACKAGING STRATEGY
Aligned with our overall sustainability objectives, and in 
recognition of the global challenges around the use of plastic in 
packaging, we continue to uphold our plastic packaging strategy, 
which was developed in 2019. We want to ensure that our plastic 
packaging has the minimum impact on the environment, and we 
plan to achieve this with three focus areas:
Plastic should be eliminated or reduced from our packaging 
wherever it is practical. This means seeking non-plastic 
alternatives from across our supplier base. Plastic should also 
be reduced in weight where it is not deemed necessary for 
product protection and integrity.
Plastic recyclability will be increased through a combination 
of plastic component simplification and consumer education. 
During development, we will seek solutions to make plastic 
packaging free from contaminants that prevent recyclability.  
This can include moving from multiple plastic materials, 
which cannot be separated, to a mono material structure, or 
removing metal from plastic packaging.
Plastic sustainability should be grown through increased 
circularity. We continue to increase the amount of PCR plastic 
across our packaging and will increasingly look to source 
plastic from sources that actively remove pollution from our 
Earth’s oceans. 
1. 
2. 
3. 61PACKAGING RECYCLABILITY
We have improved overall recyclability across our broad portfolio of 
products, with global recyclability increasing from 71% in 2018 to 85% in 
2020. This equates to 60 million pounds of recyclable material recovered 
from packaging waste stream every year.
In addition to our relationships with the Sustainable Packaging Coalition, 
Association of Plastic Recyclers, Recycled Paperboard Alliance and 
Western Michigan University, we have now become members of the U.S. 
Plastics Pact. The primary focus is to work with like-minded corporations 
to drive improvements in overall recycle capabilities, materials and 
systems towards a circular economy. 
We have engaged strategic open innovation supply partners to 
implement improvements to assist in achieving our sustainability goals, 
including investigations into alternative material formats to drive more 
environmentally sustainable packaging. 
Showing commitment to sustainability, R&D resources in packaging 
sustainability increased by 100% to help drive all of our sustainability 
activities. 
RECYCLABLE CLEANER BOTTLES 
Driving towards our goal to be 95% recyclable by the end of 2025, spray 
cleaner bottles were identified as a unique and necessary challenge to 
redesign for recyclability. Color in PET bottles is not widely accepted 
in the mainstream recycling. Making the switch to clear PET means our 
bottles are now widely recycled and accepted for PET curbside recycling. 
LAUNDRY FABRIC CARE SUSTAINABILITY 
In 2019 we established a goal of 25% Post-Consumer Recycled (PCR) 
plastic resin by the end of 2025 across all plastic packaging. Continuing 
our support of this goal, in 2020, we have moved all liquid laundry 
containers to 26.5% PCR. This equates to an extra 1.3 million pounds  
of recycled material back into our laundry bottles! For our laundry 
additives, our Scentsations Scent Booster bottle now has 25% PCR, and 
will be increased to 50% in 2021. 
62PVC ELIMINATION
We have eliminated the use of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in all 
non-OTC product,  primary packaging and are committed to 
eliminating it from our newly acquired brands/products.  
Our WATERPIK brand is exemplary of this practice and 
commitment.  The recently acquired WATERPIK brand first 
eliminated 50% of PVC packaging and then achieved 90% 
elimination by the end of 2020.  
The brand will be 100% PVC free in 2021.
PAPERBOARD SOURCING 
In 2020, we achieved 99.8% certified sustainable board against 
the target of 100%. Compliance standards are in place with 
paperboard suppliers to ensure that the corrugated and carton 
board we purchase for our packaging is 100% recycled board 
materials or from sustainably sourced forests and is managed 
by our supply chain in a responsible manner.   
CONSUMER EDUCATION OF  
PACKAGE RECYCLING
During 2020, we continued the use of HOW2RECYCLE® 
labels through our partnership with the Sustainable 
Packaging Coalition. We applied approximately 1,300  
HOW2RECYCLE labels on our North American packages. 
Our WATERPIK brand updated their product packaging 
to include HOW2RECYCLE labels on 70% of their U.S. and 
Canada products. HOW2RECYCLE labeling will continue to 
be a priority in all future acquisitions. This program is highly 
beneficial to the recycling industry by informing consumers 
what should and should not be recycled through clean and 
simple communication, helping to drive the circular economy. 
BLACK PLASTIC 
We were very active during 2020 in testing a color pigment, detectable by scanners and 
sorting technology at recycling facilities across the U.S., so that more colored plastics 
can be recycled. This test was conducted with the Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR) 
working group. The group has demonstrated the importance and validation of this 
technology, as a way to expand on available recyclable material. Using this data, the APR 
Polyolefins committee has approved the use of “Widely Recyclable” recycling claims in 
near infrared detectable colorants. The proposal is awaiting final approval by the APR 
leadership. Once completed these efforts will enable millions of plastic packaging to be 
recyclable with this sortable color technology.
EMPLOYEES &
COMMUNITIES
Further integrate sustainability into  
our corporate brand and employer value 
proposition, emphasizing our environmental 
heritage.
Enhance our Corporate Social Responsibility 
program to include goals, programs and 
commitments around diversity & inclusion,  
gender equality, health and well-being.
Expand community enhancing, philanthropic programs 
and initiatives at our global operating sites.Embrace the Principles 
of Good Corporate 
Citizenship & Social 
Responsibility Within  
the Communities We  
Can Impact
6364At Church & Dwight, we have a collective  
energy and ambition. 
It’s a place where you can make a real difference and we owe 
it all to our employees. T ogether, we’ve spent the past century 
building iconic brands and providing affordable, quality 
consumer products for everyday life. Consistent with our 
environmental heritage, from the earliest design stages of our 
products to the end of consumer use, employees across all 
functions support the sustainability priorities summarized in 
this Report.
With a storied history of success and bold ambitions in 
sustainability, we look to our current and future employees to 
help shape our future. We work together to share ideas and 
contribute to collective goals. We share a passion to work hard, 
innovate and push boundaries. We may be considered a small 
company, but we use our size to our advantage. Employees get 
unrivalled exposure and opportunity, all with the backing of 
stable and supportive cross functional teams. 
In 2020 our turnover rate was 14.9%, about 3% lower than 
2019, and split between 10.5% voluntary and 4.4% involuntary 
turnover. Retirements made up 11.4% of all turnover up just 
over 3% from the year before. Our unique, informal culture 
champions courage, determination and collaboration. We 
benefit from a small company feel with opportunities to make 
our mark across our operations and across the world with 
approximately 5,100 global employees. Approximately 87% 
of our workforce is  located in the Americas, 10% in Europe, 
Middle East, and Africa, and 3% in the Asia-Pacific region. 
We’re purposefully lean so our jobs are bigger and provide the 
opportunity to learn and grow. Our revenue per employee in 
fiscal 2020 was approximately $958,000.
65Ours is a culture where relationships matter. We live by our pillars – they 
ground us in a shared sense of purpose and guide major decisions about 
the business and our people. We believe that we all have something to 
contribute, and something to gain from working together.
We continued to activate our employer brand which was launched in 2019 
by installing wall designs in our offices, embedding culture questions in 
our interview guide to ensure candidates are a good fit and by showcasing 
actual employee photos on our social and recruiting sites.  
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
We embrace the diversity of our employees and believe that a diverse 
workforce fosters innovation and cultivates an environment filled with 
unique perspectives. As a result, diversity, equity and inclusion help us 
meet the needs of our customers and consumers around the world. We 
strive to cultivate a culture and vision that supports and enhances our 
ability to recruit, develop and retain diverse talent at every level. As of 
December 31, 2020, our global workforce was approximately 41% gender 
diverse with 42% females in management, 26% in senior management 
and 22% in executive roles. 32% of our total U.S.-based employees are 
from racially/ethnically diverse groups with 21% representation in 
management, 13% in senior management and 11% in executive roles. 21% 
of our global workforce are at least 55 years old, 49% between 36 and 55, 
23% between 26 and 36 and 7% 25 years old or under.
In 2020 we established a Diversity & Inclusion Council that provides 
strategic direction, guidance and advocacy for our diversity, equity and 
inclusion (DE&I) initiatives. The Diversity & Inclusion Council is led 
by our Chief Executive Officer and our Director, Diversity & Inclusion 
and includes diverse employees at every level from around the world. 
Our Board of Directors, acting principally through its Compensation & 
Organization Committee, oversees our DE&I efforts.
66We have made a clear commitment to long term support 
of building an inclusive environment through our following 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion statement:
We win when we respect every employee for who they are – regardless of 
gender, age, race, ethnicity, religion, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation 
or any other differences. We believe that our employees’ contributions are 
richer because of their diversity. We aim to be a diverse, inclusive and equitable 
company and are determined to build a culture where people have the power to 
win together. 
In 2020, our D&I initiative made continuous progress in supporting an inclusive 
environment at our facilities while exploring our diversity representation and 
talent policies for actionable goals and opportunities.  
Our Human Resources team has focused on listening to our employees about 
their experiences in the workplace. 
Our D&I strategy includes four areas of focus.
• Talent Acquisition: We aim to attract and select a diverse workforce  
that is representative of the markets we serve.
• Conscious Inclusion:   We aim to create an environment where everyone 
feels free to bring their authentic self to work every day.
• Community Outreach:  We are committed to advancing D&I in the 
communities we serve by engaging with our community partnerships  
and philanthropy.
• How We Run the Business:  We are committed to fostering a diverse and 
inclusive mindset in our business practices and partnerships with customers, 
vendors and suppliers.
We continue to work inside our company to achieve representation that 
reflects available talent across all underrepresented groups especially 
in leadership and technical positions. T o that end, we made powerful 
commitments for 2021 and are adopting new, inclusive hiring practices and 
programs to support historically underrepresented team members in their 
advancement at all levels of our company.
67In addition, our  senior leaders in the organization gathered virtually to 
engage in robust training on Leading Inclusion. The time spent provided 
understanding of inclusive leadership concepts and approaches we 
can use as we execute against our D&I strategy. Following the training 
each senior leader participated in a detailed functional analysis of 
their diversity metrics and inclusion practices. People leaders at 
Church & Dwight host quarterly “Courageous Conversations” focused 
on dedicated conversation on each dimension of diversity with their 
teams. Employees have appreciated the dialogue and the most recent 
engagement survey results, support that overall employees responded 
favorably to the areas of diversity, inclusion and belonging. 
Additional actions completed in 2020 include:
• Donated $500,000 to NAACP Legal Defense Fund
• Appointed Director, Diversity & Inclusion
• Established a Diversity & Inclusion Council that provides strategic 
direction, guidance and advocacy for our D&I initiatives which is led 
by our Chief Executive Officer and our Director, Diversity & Inclusion 
• Revised hiring manager guidelines to identify the best candidate that 
reflects diversity and supports an inclusive environment 
• Introduced talent acquisition guidelines such as the “Rooney Rule” on 
diverse slates and interview panels
• Partnered with talent acquisition organizations and events that 
support D&I and meet our talent needs 
• Recruiting outreach to affinity student groups as well as The 
Consortium, the nation’s largest diversity network to ensure we 
attract and engage underrepresented minority students
68• Making D&I a regular topic for management meetings and  
town halls throughout the organization 
• Conducted ‘Unconscious bias, diversity and inclusion training’ for 
managers and ‘enhanced D&I training’ for all employees to ensure 
we have a diverse workforce that brings ideas and views from 
various backgrounds
• Discussed diversity in our pipeline of future talent in bi-annual  
CEO led succession reviews
• Launched a diversity module for onboarding new employees
• Donated $20,000 and established a partnership with historically 
black colleges, universities and organizations that support the 
advancement of diversity and inclusion
• Increased D&I communications throughout our organization 
including launching an internal D&I webpage for learning about 
each dimension of diversity
Our Board of Directors also recognizes that “the tone is set at the 
top” and the processes applicable to determining the composition 
of the Board and senior management will have significant impact 
on attracting and retaining individuals throughout our operations. 
Diversity, including the level of representation of women, is 
considered by us, our Board and its Corporate Governance 
Committee in the identification and nomination of directors and in the 
hiring of senior management. The Board has adopted processes for 
the nomination and evaluation of individuals as members of the Board 
and its committees that are based on objective merit-based criteria 
which afford due regard to the potential benefits of diversity. Our 
Board members are 30% female and 10% racially/ethnically diverse. 
69Additionally, in 2019 we established our U.S.-based Supplier Diversity Program 
that is designed to drive spend growth with certified diverse suppliers by 
ensuring their inclusion in our Procurement-led sourcing process, and we 
continued to develop the program in 2020. We joined two of the leading Supplier 
Diversity Certification organizations, The Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council and The National Minority Supplier Development Council, to help 
inform and develop our program’s foundation. Refer to the Responsible  
Sourcing section of this Report for additional information on our Supplier 
Diversity Program. 
 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
As part of our overall effort to attract, develop and retain talented employees, 
our compensation programs are designed to align the compensation of 
our employees with our and their performance, and to provide the proper 
incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve superior 
results. Our policies and procedures are designed to ensure compensation is 
fair and equitable for employees of the same job, at the same level, location and 
performance. These include utilizing pay grades for appropriate job groupings, 
making pay decisions based on relevant factors, such as education, experience, 
and performance, and subjecting pay decisions to higher levels of leadership and 
Human Resources review to ensure those decisions are fair, equitable and align 
with the company’s equal employment opportunity policies and objectives. 
Employees are eligible for health insurance, prescription drug benefits, dental, 
vision, hospital indemnity, accident, critical illness, and disability insurance, 
as well as life insurance, health savings accounts, flexible spending accounts, 
reproductive rights coverage, and identity theft insurance.BRING YOUR DETERMINATION:  We’ll give you the power to  
own your success and do work you didn’t know was possible.
BRING YOUR TEAM SPIRIT:  We’ll offer you an openminded and  
low-ego environment.
BRING YOUR COURAGE: We’ll help you make a tangible impact.
70TALENT AND DEVELOPMENT
Our talent strategy is focused on attracting the best talent and 
recognizing and rewarding performance, while continually developing, 
engaging and retaining our talented employees. We focus on the 
team member experience, removing barriers to engagement, further 
modernizing the human relations process, focusing on hourly team 
member retention and continually improving equity and effectiveness of 
all talent practices including a fair equitable identification and selection 
hiring process.
We invest resources in professional development and growth as a means 
of improving employee performance and improving retention. This 
includes our bi-annual “LEAP” (Leadership Empowerment Achievement 
Program), which is aimed at continuous learning, professional training 
and development opportunities, targeted leadership development 
courses for new and existing leaders of different levels of seniority, tuition 
reimbursement, and job specific programs for our employees. Over 676 
people leaders have participated in the LEAP program since inception. 
These leaders have received on average 37.5 hours of learning in the 
LEAP program.
We are committed to ensuring that all employees have the opportunities, 
tools and resources to develop and drive their careers. Our employees 
gain valuable experience in their roles and have the opportunity to learn 
new skills through broad responsibilities and experiences. Employees also 
broaden their skills by participating in cross functional projects  
and assignments.
We invest resources in professional development and growth as a means 
of improving employee performance and improving retention. In addition, 
we offer tuition reimbursement to encourage employees to develop new 
skills that allows them to become qualified for new jobs that will help 
advance their careers at Church & Dwight. 
71THE RED BANDANA AWARD ON Y AMMER
The Red Bandana Award recognized employees below director level 
who demonstrated certain behaviors, which helped drive our 2020 
goals and vision. Despite practicing social distancing and working 
remotely, the award program lived on with virtual postings on our 
internal social media Yammer page recognizing employees for 
exemplifying those behaviors. 
HIRING OUR HEROES
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation’s Hiring Our Heroes 
(HOH) is a nationwide effort to connect veterans, service members 
and military spouses with meaningful employment opportunities. In 
collaboration with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s vast network 
of state and local chambers and strategic partners from the public, 
private and non-profit sectors, their goal is to create a movement 
across America in hundreds of communities where veterans and 
military families return every day.
We re-established our partnership with HOH in 2019 with the goal 
of placing fellows in temporary assignments in our domestic plants. 
T o date, we’ve had three fellows in our Harrisonville, MO plant all of 
which received full-time offers. Due to the success of the program 
and our commitment to hiring military talent, we’re expanding the 
program to our corporate office in 2021.
CAMPUS RECRUITING
We have long established undergraduate and MBA Marketing 
Internship programs. Our interns and co-ops gain hands-on 
experience and are given the opportunity to test their abilities.  
We have a core school approach for connecting with  
undergraduates and school agnostics, as well as a few core schools 
for Marketing recruiting.
72Diversity, equity and inclusion are a focus for early-
in-career recruiting. T o ensure we attract and engage 
underrepresented minority students, we conduct outreach 
to student groups as well as The Consortium, the nation’s 
largest diversity network. Interns work on real-life projects, 
get exposure to senior leaders across the organization and 
participate in a multitude of learning events focused on 
building their business acumen, relationship building and 
communication skills.
Early Career opportunities are offered out of our corporate 
office and our Global R&D center. We offer three-month 
internships, running from May to August; and six to eight-
month co-ops running throughout the year. T o ensure safety 
of our interns and co-ops during the COVID-19 pandemic, 
we hosted our first virtual internship programs in 2020.
WORKPLACE FLEXIBILITY (WPF)
One pillar of our 2020 strategy was to create a work 
environment where people matter and love to work. We 
know WPF has proven to increase employee engagement, 
improve business results and thereby our competitive 
advantage. WPF takes many forms and is not one size 
fits all, so our leaders evaluate the various roles in their 
departments, and in the spirit of what’s possible, figure out 
how to best support flexibility in their respective areas.  
We have achieved a great level of success working in this 
way and have identified roles within our organization that 
will be working from home as their primary work location 
going forward granting us greater flexibility in our sourcing 
of talent.
73
Earth Day 2020 – Making an Impact, Safely
Church & Dwight and the ARM & HAMMER brand was closely 
involved with the historic first Earth Day on April 22, 1970, and 
we continue to act on our commitment to the planet 50 years 
later. We celebrate this heritage of being a dedicated friend of the 
environment and look to the future to continue to make a positive 
impact on the planet.
In the weeks leading up to Earth Day 50, we heard much about 
social distancing and staying at home. Of course, staying home 
derailed many of our Earth Day 50 plans. Gone were the collection 
and donation drives, the guest speakers, the volunteer efforts. We 
watched as our big plans were put aside. But even though many of 
our usual habits stopped, it did not mean that everything stopped. 
Even though we couldn’t all come together, we could still join 
together to make an impact.
Each individual doing something small is doing 
something for the greater good of all. 
In 2020, we encouraged everyone not to look outward, but to look 
inward - around the kitchen, home, yard, garage. Instead of social 
distancing, we focused on social media.
• We encouraged empoyees to share their sustainable home 
activity with the company on Yammer, our internal social media 
platform. Whether it was planting their first vegetable garden, 
installing a rain barrel or cleaning out a closet to prepare a pile 
of usable donations, we supported our employees sharing their 
efforts and their behaviors.
74
• Using the same Yammer platform, we shared waste repurposing 
and reduction tips that employees could utilize at home to 
change their habits. Some of these educational posts included 
ways to repurpose and reuse wastes like coffee grounds, 
eggshells and grass clippings.
• We invited employees to sustainable behavior webinars, 
such as the virtual ReCook Café. Professional chefs gave 
demonstrations and shared their favorite tips, tricks, techniques 
and more to help home cooks get the most out of their food 
while reducing waste at the same time.  
• We showed consumers how to recycle cat litter boxes on 
America Recycles Day.
• We quickly found a way for people to celebrate the day in a safe 
way from their own homes. Consumers could stay safe and plant 
a tree seedling to live on for generations. Over the course of the 
week, our ARM & HAMMER brand team gave away over 25,000 
tree seedlings in partnership with the Arbor Day Foundation, 
and 179,000 wildflower postcards for consumers to plant at 
their homes.  
One person making small sustainable changes in their home may 
not seem like much, but just like social distancing and staying at 
home, individual efforts are capable of creating greater good.  
One leaf does not make a tree, nor does one tree make a forest.  
A sustainable company starts with sustainable people.
T ogether, we can make an environmental difference.  
T ogether, we have the power to win.
75EMPLOYEE GIVING FUND
We feel strongly that it’s important to support the communities where 
we operate. In 2005, we established the Church & Dwight Employee 
Giving Fund, Inc. (EGF), a workplace giving program that supports 
charitable organizations where our employees work and live. While it 
began with a focus in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, the efforts of this 
organization are continuing to expand to include other states in which 
we have locations, such as Colorado, Wisconsin and Arkansas. Each 
year, we invite our employees to dedicate a portion of their paychecks 
to the EGF. We encourage employee donations by offering employees 
additional time off depending on their level of giving, and by matching 
all employee contributions dollar for dollar, with no cap. Over the 
past 15 years since its inception, the EGF has become a cherished 
part of our culture, and has awarded nearly 2,200 grants totaling 
over $14 million to charitable organizations in the U.S. Through our 
annual grant process in 2020, the EGF awarded an aggregate of $1.1 
million to 185 deserving organizations in a variety of areas, including 
animal rescue, disadvantaged youth, domestic violence, education, 
health, homelessness, hunger relief, military services, preservation 
of the environment, services for the elderly and programs for the 
arts. Employees are encouraged to sponsor their favorite charities 
in the application process, and funding preference is given to those 
organizations with an employee sponsor. 
2020 was a challenging year for many non-profit organizations, who 
were hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic from reduced funding, 
staff and an increase in demand from the community. The EGF 
recognized this need early on in the pandemic and donated $100,000 
in emergency relief to 30 food pantries and homeless shelters with  
high demand. Additionally, the EGF funded natural disaster relief 
through the donation of $15,000 to the Red Cross to combat wildfires 
and tornadoes.
76While we could not participate in the many volunteer activities conducted 
during our usual annual Week of Service, employees were still able 
to give back by purchasing back-to-school supplies online to support 
disadvantaged youth, donating clothes and non-perishable items for a 
Clothing and Food Drives, and provided supplies for a Summer Camp and 
Holiday Dinner for families in need at HomeFront NJ, a local nonprofit 
that provides services for homeless youth and families in Central New 
Jersey, and one of EGF’s signature partners. 
WORKPLACE SAFETY & HEALTH
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all 
employees and visitors to our facilities. This commitment is reflected 
in our Corporate Safety Policy . Our Policy establishes the guidelines 
for the safety programs at each of our sites worldwide. All Church & 
Dwight employees fall under the scope of the Corporate Safety Policy.  
For contractors performing work at our facilities, we utilize a Contractor 
Management Program to communicate our expectations and provide 
safety guidance.
We utilize third-party consultants to provide hazard identification and 
assessment services, such as industrial hygiene monitoring and hazard 
recognition training. Employees are encouraged to report safety concerns 
to their supervisor, site safety manager, or through their respective 
employee safety committee. Within these committees, employee 
representatives of all levels can freely raise and discuss safety concerns 
for appropriate action without fear of reprisal.  
Our ongoing industrial hygiene monitoring initiatives allow us to identify 
potential health risks in the work environment and collect data on the 
effectiveness of the controls. We conduct both personal and area studies 
on hazards such as occupational noise and various airborne contaminants. 
Each of our locations has a local clinical health partner where employees 
receive occupational health screening and diagnostic services as needed.
77WORKPLACE SAFETY
We use several metrics to evaluate our safety performance, of which “DART” 
rate and “recordable” rate serve as the historical performance indicators. 
The DART rate is a term indicating the number of accidents resulting in an 
injury with Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred from normal job duties and 
normalized to hours worked. The recordable rate is a regulatory term indicating 
accidents of a severity beyond first aid, which must be recorded and reported.  
Unfortunately, we experienced an increase in both our DART and recordable 
rates in 2020. The most common employee injuries recorded during 2020 were 
low-severity incidents such as body motion injuries (muscle sprains/strains).   
There were zero fatalities and zero contractor injuries in 2020.
The charts below provide our DART and recordable rates, and associated 
accidents for our global operations and both well below the relevant industry 
benchmark (BM Manufacturing).1   
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
DART Rate USA 1.6 1.7 1.2 1.2 1.1 0.9 0.8 0.4 0.7
DART Rate Global 1.7 1.6 1.2 1.3 1.1 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.7
BM Manufacturing 2.3 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.0 2.0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Recordable Rate USA 2.3 2.0 1.6 1.3 1.6
Recordable Rate Global 2.1 1.8 1.5 1.3 1.5
BM Manufacturing 3.6 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.3
1The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics defines Benchmark Manufacturing as: food; beverage and tobacco product; textile mills; textile product mills; apparel; leather and applied product; wood 
product; paper; printing and related support activities; petroleum and coal products; chemical; plastics and rubber products; nonmetallic mineral product; primary metal; fabricated metal 
product; machinery; computer and electronic product; electrical equipment, appliance, and component; transportation equipment; furniture and related product; miscellaneous. 782020 SAFETY RECOGNITION  
FOR OUR PLANTS
Zero DART Cases Zero Recordable Incidents
Green River, Wyoming Ewing, New Jersey
Victorville, California Mason City, Iowa
Oskaloosa, Iowa
Waukesha, Wisconsin
Levallois, France
Mexico City, Mexico
Mississauga, Canada
Frenchs Forest, Australia
Guangzhou, China
 
Green River, WY
For the first time, Green River workforce reached 5 years  
without a Lost Time Incident!
Madera, CA
 6 years no Lost Time Incidents! 
Victorville, CA
Two years and approximately 486,851 manhours without a Lost  
Time Injury as of Nov. 2, 2020. The safety performance at our  
site is a continuous effort from our employees and  
leadership team.
Green River Plant79WORKPLACE SAFETY TRAINING
We believe that training in all aspects of workplace safety is a priority, 
and a key component of our program to prevent accidents and ill 
health. As outlined in the Corporate Safety Program, sites conduct 
training based on the hazards present in their work areas. Due to 
social distancing requirements, standard classroom training was not 
feasible. Instead, we relied on our new online training management 
program, as well as supervisor-led training for smaller groups. Our 
comprehensive safety education program for all employees includes 
hearing protection, emergency response, personal protective 
equipment and many other important topics.
WORKPLACE SAFETY AUDITS 
Through our corporate safety department, we implement a safety 
auditing program for adherence to local, state and federal safety 
standards and regulations. The auditing program confirms our 
commitment to best management practices and principles. These 
audits are conducted annually for global operations by third-
party consultants performing a rigorous assessment of regulatory 
standards, internal procedures and program performance. Due to the 
travel and contact restrictions in 2020, onsite audits were blended 
with online virtual audits at selected locations to maintain our high 
level of continued compliance and ongoing support during this time.
SAFETY-RELATED REGULATORY ACTION 
Like all other companies, we are subject to regulatory inspection and 
review. In 2020, we received a total of 6 regulatory inquiries (letters, 
phone calls, planned and unplanned visits) to our global operations 
sites. Despite these 6 regulatory inquiries, 0 regulatory violations/
findings were issued.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIESRESPONSIBLE
SOURCINGENVIRONMENT DATA 79
Inquiries / Inspections Citations Penalties
6 0 $0.00
 RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING
Committed to Improving 
our Supply Chain’s 
Environmental, Social  
and Ethical Practices
Assess 100% of at risk suppliers by  
end of 2021.
Source 100%  RSPO Certified Mass Balance 
palm oil ingredients by the end of 2025.
Continue to purchase at least 97% of palm  
oil ingredients traceable to mills.
Continue to manage our operations in a 
responsible and sustainable manner.
8081By upholding high ethical standards, continually 
evaluating our environmental impact, creating 
a safe workplace, and vigilantly maintaining our 
commitment to responsible sourcing, we have held 
our position as a trusted provider of household, 
personal care and specialty products for over  
170 years.  
Our supply chain is a significant part of our business, and more 
than half of our employees support its day-to-day operations. 
We source from over 400 suppliers and contract manufacturers, 
the majority of which are located in North America. All of our 
employees and suppliers are expected to comply with our  
Global Operations Guiding Principles (Principles) , These 
Principles, address business ethics and compliance, fair labor 
conditions, health and safety, and environmental protection. 
They are  based on internationally recognized human rights 
and labor standards, including: the United Nations Declaration 
on Human Rights; the International Labor Organization’s 1998 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; and 
the Labor Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. The 
Principles are also substantially aligned with the Ethical Trading 
Initiative Base Code, the California Transparency in Supply 
Chains Act of 2010 and the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015.   
The Principles are included in our agreements with suppliers.
82In 2020, we focused our Responsible Sourcing Program, further 
educating our employees responsible for  relationships with 
suppliers and contract manufacturers on potential Human Rights 
challenges in the supply chain and our Responsible Sourcing 
Program. We continued our relationship with AIM-PROGRESS, a 
forum of manufacturers and suppliers that promotes responsible 
sourcing practices, to help benchmark and provide industry 
guidance in support of our responsible sourcing journey. We 
worked with our supply base to onboard participating factories in  
at-risk geographies on the Sedex platform. 
We support the Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and 
the UK Modern Slavery act of 2015. We conducted risk-based 
supplier audits against ISO Quality Standards and Food Safety 
Standards. Audits are conducted by our Quality Department and 
supplemented, as needed, by independent third parties. Suppliers 
found to be in violation of our Principles are subject to corrective 
actions which may include follow up audits and termination  
of business.  
We have a training program for applicable employees and 
management that reinforces our Principles. This program 
supplements our Code of Conduct training that applies to all 
employees and directors, and requires compliance with applicable 
laws, including those prohibiting slavery and human trafficking.  
Any violation of applicable laws, our Code of Conduct or our 
Principles by a Church & Dwight employee or supplier may result 
in disciplinary action, including termination of employment or 
business relationship.
83RESPONSIBLE SOURCING - PALM OIL 
While we do not directly buy or use palm oil or palm kernel oil in our 
products, some of our products – including animal feed, liquid laundry 
detergents, gummy vitamins, oral care and feminine care products – 
incorporate palm oil derivatives. Although our use of palm oil derivatives 
is relatively low, approximately 2.7% of total direct materials spend,  we  
recognize the palm oil industry has a significant impact on biodiversity, 
climate change, people and communities. Accordingly, we strive to 
responsibly source palm oil derivatives in a manner that does not 
contribute to deforestation of high conservation value, high carbon stock 
forest and peatlands, or exploitation of people and local communities. 
In 2020, we continued our membership with the Roundtable 
on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and completed our first Annual 
Communication of Progress (for 2019 results). While we are not RSPO 
Supply Chain Certified, we purchased virtually all of the 39,000 tons of 
palm oil derivative raw material volume we consumed from one RSPO 
member supplier which has represented to us that this material is over 
97% traceable to the mill and over 20% of this volume was purchased in 
mass balance material. Our supplier has also represented to us that all  
such palm oil derivatives have been produced in conformance with its  
“No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation Policy. ” 
Due to the complexity of the palm oil derivative supply chain, the process 
of achieving traceability involves a number of companies at many tiers. 
Because our greatest opportunity to influence the supply chain is through 
our partnerships with our suppliers, our objective of surpassing 97% 
traceability to the mills is subject to change based on the progress of our 
suppliers. In addition to full traceability to mills, we support and encourage 
suppliers to achieve as much traceability to the plantations as possible and 
to comply with RSPO standards as they evolve.
84Beyond traceability, our more comprehensive Palm Oil Sustainable Sourcing 
Commitment expands the scope of our responsibility to help address the following 
specific sourcing practices: 
•   Ending our contributions to deforestation by conserving and protecting  
primary and secondary forests, High Carbon Stock1 and High Conservation 
Value2 forests across all supplier landholdings
• Ending new development on peatlands, regardless of depth
• Leveraging best management practices3 for existing palm oil plantations  
on peat soils.
• Prohibiting the use of fire for preparation or clearing of land areas.
• Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and existing operations.  
• Complying with existing RSPO Principles and Criteria or other equivalent standards.
• Ending any exploitation of the rights of indigenous peoples and local communities
1. High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests as defined at http://highcarbonstock.org by the HCS Steering Group.
2.  High Conservation Value (HCV) as defined by the HCV network:  
https://www.hcvnetwork.org/about-hcvf/the-sixhigh-conservation-values.
3.  Best management practices covered by the “RSPO Manual on Best Management Practices (BMPs) for existing oil 
palm cultivation on peat. ”
T o accomplish these goals, we require our primary supplier to meet or exceed the 
standards set forth in its No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation Policy, provide 
quarterly reports regarding its supply chain mapping, provide progress reports against 
the commitments set forth in its policy, and meet or exceed RSPO standards for 
RSPO certification. From time to time we may also further investigate various other 
approaches and tools that may be available to help us assess our supply chain. 
CONFLICT MINERALS
We are committed to ensuring  that our products do not contain conflict minerals that 
have funded armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining 
country. Any supplier found to be in violation of our policies is subject to corrective action, 
which may include termination of business.
85SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Established in 2019, our U.S.-based Supplier Diversity 
Program aims at driving spend growth with certified diverse 
suppliers by ensuring their inclusion in our Procurement-
led sourcing process. We joined two of the leading Supplier 
Diversity Certification organizations, The Women’s Business 
Enterprise National Council and The National Minority 
Supplier Development Council, to help inform and develop our 
program’s foundation. We require that diverse suppliers are 
certified by one of these organizations to be part of our Supplier 
Diversity Program. Our Supplier Diversity Program 2019 
baseline spend was $18.6MM.
In 2020, we built upon our foundation by educating and 
collaborating with stakeholders throughout the organization on 
our Supplier Diversity Program and goals. Through increased 
stakeholder engagement, we increased our consolidated Direct 
and Indirect spend with certified diverse suppliers to $37.1MM and 
established at 2025 target of $75MM. We look to further expand  
our program’s productivity in 2021 by developing a 2nd tier  
Supplier Diversity program and joining additional Supplier Diversity 
Certification organizations.
ENVIRONMENT
Minimize Environmental 
Impact of Our Global 
Operations
Achieve carbon neutral status for 
our owned and controlled global 
operations by end of 2025.
Reduce global process water and/
or wastewater by 10% annually 
normalized to production. 
Maintain a global operations solid 
waste recycling rate of 75%.
8687MANAGING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL 
SUSTAINABILITY & SAFETY  
It is essential for us to make great products in facilities with robust 
environmental, health and safety performance. We work toward this 
high-performance culture by adhering to well established principles 
defined in our Environmental and Safety Policies.  These policies guide 
our environmental and safety practices and expectations, and they are 
implemented through the following approach:
• Accountability  – Each of our facilities has a designated on-site 
environmental and safety coordinator responsible for monitoring 
and managing environmental and safety issues affecting their facility. 
These coordinators are closely networked to enable peer mentorship 
and best practice sharing across facilities.    
• Audits and Inspections  – Each of our facilities undergoes a third-
party conducted safety audit each year, and a third-party conducted 
environmental audit every other year. All facilities are subject 
to periodic, unannounced inspections by federal, state and local 
environmental agencies. 
• Awareness  – We offer regular training for all our manufacturing 
employees to promote awareness of environmental and safety 
practices and procedures. This includes an annual Environmental 
and Safety Conference for facility environmental and safety 
coordinators. We have systems to share our key performance 
indicators at both a site level and corporate level regarding action 
plan progress and sustainability performance.  
• Awards  – Each year we recognize one of our global operations for 
exemplary environmental safety and sustainability performance. An 
award is presented to a representative of the operation at a T own 
Hall event in Princeton, New Jersey. 
88ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
We strive to meet the challenge of managing our environmental 
footprint and minimize impacts of our expanding operations. We rely 
upon our employees’ strong implementation of our environmental and 
sustainability initiatives, and on our lean management approaches to 
achieve our performance goals. We regularly evaluate our primary 
impact metrics (regulatory compliance, energy use, water use and waste 
generation) and take necessary actions across the company to optimize 
our operations. We set goals and track performance against them. In 
addition to our longer-term goals regarding carbon neutrality, water 
reduction and recycling, we have established annual reduction goals 
normalized to amount of product shipped, including:
 10% reduction in total energy (GJ) at our operating  
facilities/mm lb product shipped
 10% reduction in water  intake (million gallons) at our operating  
facilities/mm lb product shipped
  10% reduction in waste (short tons) at our operating facilities/
mm lb product shipped
10% reduction in T onnes CO2e /mm lb product shipped within 
our defined GHG scope (Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3 finished 
goods transportation)
892020 CITATIONS & PENALTIES/SURCHARGES
All facilities undergo periodic, unannounced inspections by federal, state, 
and local environmental agencies. In 2020, there were 14 such inspections 
conducted at our operations, which resulted in two  citations. The citations 
received were related to a hazardous material rail shipping manifest and 
hazardous waste labeling. One additional citation was received in 2020 
related to an air permit compliance inspection in December 2019.  
Corrective actions were identified and either immediately implemented or 
corrective action plans developed and implemented for all instances. T otal 
penalties in the amount of $3,375 USD were assessed and paid by us for  
the citations received.   
CITATIONS
SPILLS / RELEASES TO THE ENVIRONMENT
We monitor and report on spills and releases to the environment. This 
includes our Colonial Heights, Virginia plant, which, as a result of the 
manufacturing process, releases ammonia to the atmosphere on a consistent 
basis each year and in compliance with air pollution control regulations. 
In 2020 we had no reportable accidental releases to the environment.
Media T otal PenaltiesCitations - 
Inspection Related Citations 
Self-Reported
Waste $3,375 1 0
Air $0 1 0
Hazardous Materials $0 1 090REMEDIATION
In 2020, there was limited activity regarding environmental remediation company-
wide, with the most significant activity occurring in connection with the closure and 
remediation activity at sites in Brazil maintained by our wholly owned subsidiary 
Química Geral do Nordeste Ltd. (QGN). The closure and remediation activities are 
summarized below. 
QGN, Feira de Santana, Brazil 
There are ongoing remediation efforts at the closed facility of QGN in Brazil. The 
remediation efforts include the control and capture of contaminated groundwater 
through an interceptor trench drainage system, as well as the installation of additional 
monitoring wells for the site characterization. Remediation spending in 2020 was 
approximately $100,000.     
QGN, Itapura, Brazil 
The mining operations that supported the inorganic salt manufacturing operation for 
QGN is undergoing closure activity. The remediation efforts in 2020 are primarily the 
grading and re-vegetation of the slopes of the surface mine. There was no significant 
remediation spending in 2020.      
ENERGY
Energy used in our operations is a direct contributor to carbon emissions. Energy is 
required in all phases of our operations from lighting offices, to burning fuels for heat 
or steam for processing, to charging electric fork trucks in our warehouses. We use 
both direct (on site fuel combustion) and indirect (off site electric or steam generation) 
energy sources in our business. Energy is also used outside our operations by third 
parties not directly under our control, who provide raw materials and/or contract 
manufactured products.
We currently track energy use within our operation from all of our company 
controlled locations, including administrative offices, R&D operations, manufacturing 
plants, and warehouse/distribution locations. We track energy consumption in terms 
of specific fuels, total energy (GJ equivalent for all fuel and electricity use), and 
our normalized energy consumption in GJ per million pounds of product shipped. 
Additional discussion of the Energy Metrics and T argets is included in the Climate 
Change section of this Report. 
91WASTE
In 2020, our total waste generation was up by 3% over the prior year. 
This was primarily driven by production increases at our plants in 2020.  
Some of the general trash increased volume may also be related to 
additional trash and cleaning waste related to COVID-19 precautions 
implemented in 2020 (e.g. contaminated PPE and cleaning waste).  
Reductions in hazardous waste, and non-hazardous process waste 
volume were offset by increases in general trash, hauled wastewater 
and total recycle, for a net increase of approximately 2,000 tons vs 
2019. Wastewater transported offsite, which cannot be sent to a 
public treatment works at the manufacturing location, represents 
the largest percentage of the waste by weight, at 42%. Trucked 
wastewater increase (+7%) is directly related to production throughput 
and the delayed implementation of a waste water treatment option 
for wastewater at our Harrisonville, Missouri plant which resulted in 
increased wastewater trucked off site in 2020.
T otal recycle weight in 2020 was up nearly 2,700 tons (20%), primarily 
due to a one time recycle of asphalt/concrete associated with a 
repaving project at our Montreal, Quebec site (1,000 tons). Expanding 
recycling/beneficial reuse of wastes from our gummy vitamin 
operations as animal feed supplement accounted for much of the 
remaining increase along with increases in our base recycling of plastic 
recycle (+660 tons) and wood/pallet recycle (+270 tons) offsetting 
a decrease in total corrugate/paper recycle (-370 tons). Most of our 
other recycle streams did not differ significantly from 2019. 
92GLOBAL LEAN IMPLEMENTATION
In 2020 there were a total of 631 LEAN activities. These events drove 
engagement and helped create a continuous improvement mindset, ultimately 
generating $12.3MM in savings. Our vision is to make improvements every day, 
everywhere, by everyone in the organization.
We now have four sites certified as LEAN Bronze Level. Our York, PA facility 
was the latest site to be certified (December 2020). York is our largest site in the 
network and certification is a big milestone to the program. The employees at 
our York facility have been using LEAN principles to drive business results and 
have achieved the following in 2020:
Record Production 
Distribution Center record volumes
Material losses reduced by 32%
$3.3MM of savings
93
WHY WE ARE IMPLEMENTING 
LEAN MANUFACTURING
LEAN Manufacturing is a methodology and business philosophy which has proven 
highly successful during the last few decades in multiple industries around the globe. 
Now more than ever before, speed and operational efficiency are the determining 
factors for success in the volatile, fast-paced world of ours.
WHAT WE ARE EXCEPTING FROM LEAN IN 2021:
• All sites Bronze Certified by year end
• Achieve Silver Level on at least two sites
• Deploy TPM (T otal Productive Maintenance) Standards and Community
• Drive Root Cause Analysis (RCA) Standardization & Effectiveness 
• Perform E2E Value Stream Mapping in 50% of the sites
• Improve Quality at the source for a zero defects mindset
• Expand LEAN across Supply Chain Organization & key business processesOUR KEY OBJECTIVES FOR LEAN ARE:
1. Minimizing waste 
2.  Improving equipment efficiency, optimizing assets and deferring capital 
requirements – thereby increasing the utilization of our assets
3.  Engaging our workforce and developing their skills so they can execute 
effectively against our improvement efforts94OUR 2025 STRATEGY: 
Our aspiration is to be the LEAN manufacturing expert in the consumer 
products industry by empowering everyone, every day, everywhere to 
continuously learn, improve and win.
Hazardous waste generation significantly decreased by 700 tons in 2020, 
and still hazardous waste represents less than 1% of all waste generated. 
Most of our facilities are considered small quantity generators of hazardous 
waste. No hazardous wastes are treated onsite. All hazardous wastes are 
transported offsite by properly licensed vendors to appropriate treatment 
storage or disposal sites. All solid waste is transported offsite and properly 
disposed at licensed facilities except, for our facility in Wyoming, which 
maintains an onsite non-hazardous waste landfill. We have no international 
shipments of hazardous or nonhazardous wastes. 
Annual Waste Generation T otals [short tons]
2018 2019 2020
Waste 61,960 57,758 59,769
General Trash 6,525 6,102 6,352
Hazardous Waste 910 1,130 411
Non-hazardous/chemical/process waste 13,517 13,109 11,292
Wastewater trucked off site 29,444 23,745 25,322
Recycling 11,565 13,673 16,39295
2020 WASTE BY FATE (%)
Landfill
Incineration
Compost
WW  Treatment
Recycle/Reuse
Energy Recovery
Other Disposal39.50%28.50%
29.30%
.20%
1.40%1.10%.10%
NORMALIZED WASTE V ALUES (TONS/MM LB SHIPPED)
Total Waste2018 2019 2020
Waste Water 
Trucked Off SiteNon-
Hazardous/
Chemical/
Process WasteRecycling General Trash Hazardous Waste12 
10 
8 
6 
4 
2 
0The following charts provide a comparison of the offsite waste disposal methods 
utilized in 2020, and normalized waste generation quantities for the last three years. 
Overall our normalized waste generation to million pounds of product shipped was 
down again in 2020. The normalized metric was down -4%, missing our -10% target.  
This was primarily due to the increased wastewater volume and increased recycle 
volumes in 2020 vs 2019.96In 2017 we set a goal to recycle 75% of our solid waste by the end of 2020, defined as: 
Recycle [mass]/ (Recycle [mass]+General Trash [mass])
In 2020, our recycle rate was 72%, up from 68% in 2019,  just below our target. We 
continue to work towards our recycle rate goal of 75% for our combined recycle and 
general trash waste streams. 
COVID-19 precautions, manpower limitations due to illness, and travel restriction/
reduced personal interactions all put an unprecedented strain on our production 
operations in 2020. Demand for our products led many of our production locations 
to achieve record high output milestones. Despite these additional obstacles, as with 
energy and water, we continued exploring ways to save energy, reduce water and 
minimize waste as we increased production. Our operating plants regularly develop 
specific, targeted waste minimization projects. While these efforts are not always 
successful, the net results are reflected in the 2020 metrics described in this Report.
EXPANDING BENEFICIAL REUSE
Our York, Pennsylvania plant currently implements the beneficial reuse/recycling 
of solid gummy vitamin wastes to an animal feed supplement process. In 2020, we 
explored options and established a process for beneficial reuse/recycle of cat litter 
wastes. This new process is expected to divert another 200-300 tons of waste from 
landfills. In all, 1.2 million pounds of waste otherwise destined for landfills was diverted 
to beneficial reuse/recycling from the York plant. 
HAZARDOUS WASTE MINIMIZATION
Many of our locations including our Vancouver, WA plant, Lakewood, NJ plant and 
Folkestone, UK plant were successful in significantly reducing the volume of hazardous 
waste disposed in 2020. Efforts such as assessing manufacturing processes, examining 
work practices, re-evaluating waste streams, and improving separation of waste 
streams resulted in a greater than 50% reduction (-719 tons) in total hazardous waste 
generation in 2020 vs 2019. While hazardous waste makes up a very small part of our 
overall waste volume, greater than 50% of our facilities that generate hazardous waste 
throughout our organization produced less hazardous waste in 2020. 
 We will continue to look for opportunities to apply these and other promising 
programs across the company. 
 
97WATER
Water is a necessary resource for the sustainable future of our business, the 
communities in which we operate, and the planet as a whole. Responsible 
management of that resource to ensure the availability of adequate volume 
and quality is part of our company contribution to the sustainable future of the 
communities in which we live and work. Water quality and quantity are critical 
aspects of our operations as well. Water is a particularly high priority internally 
because water is a necessary ingredient in many of our products and operations. 
The majority of our water consumption is as a product ingredient. Water use for 
cooling, cleaning or other process operations, and sanitary use is treated and 
discharged back to the environment. 
In 2017 we established our 2022 water reduction goal in acknowledgement of our 
critical use of water. This goal set the base year as 2016. But in fact in 2017, the 
year we announced our intention, we had the highest water intake of our recent 
past. Since 2017 we have implemented programs to reduce our water use, but 
company growth and product demand has limited our ability to achieve our water 
reduction target against the 2016 base year.
In 2016 when the goal was established, we shipped approximately 5,107 million 
pounds of product. In 2020 we shipped 6,107 million pounds of product,  a 20% 
increase. This  growth has resulted in increased water demand and in 2020, year 3 
of our 5-year reduction goal, our water intake is only down -1% against our 2016 
base year, vs a targeted -15% for year 3. Our water reduction programs have not 
yet achieved the gross reductions we had hoped, but our data does show that 
we have achieved a steady reduction in annual water intake since 2017. We also 
recognize that these water reduction efforts are contributing to a steady reduction 
in normalized total water intake (thousand gallons/million pounds product shipped). 
In consideration of this we have established a new water goal for the company. We 
will work towards an annual 10% reduction of normalized water intake per million 
pounds of product shipped to better track our water reduction progress. Despite 
the lack of success in reducing total water intake against our 2016 base year, we 
remain committed to reducing our water use. We will continue to track water use 
reduction through 2022 compared to our 2016 baseline in addition to our 10% 
normalized reduction goal.
98
% TOTAL WATER EXTRACTION BY LOCATION WRI 
OVERALL WATER RISK CLASSIFICATION
Low Risk (0-1)
Low to Medium Risk (1-2)
Medium to High Risk (2-3)
High Risk (3-4)
Extremely High Risk (4-5)  54.88% 36.97%0.00%
7.96%0.20%WATER STRESS RISK
The World Resources Institute (WRI) water risk evaluation identifies 
areas with higher exposure to water stress related risks, and is an 
aggregated measure of selected regional indicators such as physical 
quantity, quality and regulatory & reputational risk. Our 2020 update 
of the overall water stress risk associated with our operating locations 
used the most recent version of the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, Global 
Maps 2.1 Data found on the WRI website . This review found that the 
overall water-stress risk classification for a significant number of our 
locations had been downgraded compared to our previous reviews 
(using Global Maps 2.0 Data).
None of our facilities are in areas classified with extremely high 
water-stress risk as identified by the WRI. One of our North American 
locations is in a high water-stress risk area while four of our facilities 
are in medium to high water-stress risk areas. The majority of locations 
are in medium to low risk or low risk areas as defined by WRI. In terms 
of overall extraction, approximately 92% of our total water extraction 
is from locations classified a low or low-medium overall water-stress 
risk. Our single location in a high water-stress risk location (Madera, 
CA) extracted approximately 974,000 gallons of groundwater and 
discharged 623,909 gallons back to the environment.
We continue to periodically assess our water risk through the WRI 
classification as well as conducting public water and ground water 
supply assessments, primarily focused on our high volume or critical 
water quality locations. Water supply issues are often part of our 
business interruption risk planning and exercises. As a result of our 
attention to water issues, we have not experienced any business 
disruptions related to water availability or quality and have not 
identified any imminent water supply concerns that would affect  
our operations.99WATER INTAKE AND USE
Approximately 86% of our water intake is from public water supply systems. The remaining 14% is 
from groundwater wells on our facilities. We routinely interact with our public water supply purveyors 
to evaluate our incoming water quality and quantity to assure it meets drinking water quality 
standards and that available water capacity can meet company needs. Well water used is regularly 
tested to verify it also meets our quality standards. Even with incoming water meeting drinking water 
quality standards, most of our locations engage in tertiary water treatment to provide the highest 
quality necessary for our production operations.
We define net water consumption as:  
Net Consumption(gal) = T otal water intake(gal) – T otal water discharges/disposals (gal)
During 2020, our operations required nearly 495 million gallons of freshwater intake, down 13 million 
gallons (-3%) from 2019. T otal water discharged was also decreased by approximately 11% million 
gallons compared to 2019. As a result total water net consumption was up approximately 4% in 2020. 
We consumed approximately 60% of the water and discharged 40% back to the environment in 
2020. The consumption estimate includes evaporative losses. With less total water intake concurrent 
with an increase in net consumption, our water use efficiency has improved. This can be seen in our 
normalized water metric (thousand gallons water intake/mm lbs product shipped) which decreased  
by 10% from 2019 to 2020.
The charts show the net and normalized water intake and water consumption for  
2016 through 2020.
TOTAL WATER USE (MILLION GALLONS)
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020217232 215 217
Total Water Intake (MM gal) Total Discharge (MM gal) Net Consumption (MM gal)197282 288 292 292 298499521 507 509 495100We continue efforts to identify and implement specific projects related 
to water conservation. Projects include eliminating single pass uses, 
optimizing water reclaim/recycling systems,  minimizing evaporative losses 
and improving efficiency in our water handling and treatment equipment, 
especially at our most water intensive plants. While we continue to seek 
projects that will have a substantial impact on reducing our water use, we 
are also making changes on the site level throughout the organization that 
contribute to our ongoing water minimization efforts. Sites have installed 
waterless toilets, implemented improved operations and maintenance 
programs to minimize water leaks or valve failures, installed smart meters to 
better monitor water use, and evaluated opportunities to reclaim or re-use 
wasted water. Not every effort has been successful, but they all help drive our 
culture of responsibility, sustainability, and conservation that resulted in a net 
reduction of 13 million gallons of water intake in 2020 vs 2019.
NORMALIZED WATER USE 
(THOUSAND GALLON/MM LB SHIPPED)
150
100
50
0
Intake/MM lb shipped Consumed/MM lb shipped55 54 51 534998 97 91 81
2016 2017 2018 2019 202090101WASTEWATER DISCHARGES
We generate and discharge industrial and sanitary waste waters from our 
operations. These discharges have potential to impact water quality of a 
receiving water body. Approximately 99% of our wastewater is discharged 
to local municipal wastewater treatment plants, transported offsite for 
appropriate disposal, or treated onsite prior to discharge. The remaining 1% 
is direct discharge of non-contact cooling water or clean fire system water. 
Approximately 84% of our wastewater is treated by others before being 
discharged to the environment, which means it is discharged directly to a 
public treatment works for further treatment, hauled to an offsite facility 
for further treatment prior to discharge, or discharged to evaporation 
ponds with no direct discharge.
2020 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE (%) 
61%
14%23%
2%0%
0%Discharge to Sewer (POTW)
Discharge to Surface Water 
With Treatment
Discharge to Surface Water 
No Treatment
Discharge to Ground Water 
With Treatment
Discharge to Ground Water 
NO Treatment
Discharge to Other (Evap 
pond or offsite treatment)102Process wastewaters are discharged under permits issued by the appropriate local jurisdiction 
and treatment authorities. At about one quarter of our locations specific wastewater streams 
such as high strength biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) or surfactant streams, are segregated, 
collected, and transported off site to an appropriate treatment facility when the local wastewater 
authority is unable to receive the discharges. Priority wastewater treatment (or pre-treatment) 
of our wastewaters varies by site, operation, and local requirements, but may include pH 
adjustment, solids removal, metals removal (e.g. zinc), and organics reduction.
Our operations include one location, our  Old Fort, Ohio plant, with a direct wastewater 
discharge. This plant manufactures sodium bicarbonate and other products. Under the EPA 
Clean Water Act, Categorical Pre-Treatment regulations the sodium bicarbonate manufacturing 
process is considered a “zero discharge” process. All wastewater impacted by sodium bicarbonate 
is recovered and re-used in the sodium bicarbonate process or other production. The Old Fort 
plant treats and discharges sanitary and general wastewater (from mechanical systems and other 
non-sodium bicarbonate processes). Treatment processes include filtration, settling, microbial 
disinfection (for sanitary wastes), and pH adjustment. The discharges are allowed under a 
permit issued by the state environmental regulatory authority and include regular monitoring of 
wastewater parameters for compliance with established limits. Parameters include flow, color, 
dissolved oxygen, solids, nitrogen, fecal coliform, chlorine residual, chemical and biological oxygen 
demand, oil and grease, and pH. No permit excursions or violations occurred in 2020. In 2020 
the plant discharged 23 million gallons of treated wastewater to the Sandusky River. The lower 
Sandusky River is classified as an Ohio Scenic River. 
As a result of onsite treatment, pre-treatment, and off-site treatment of our wastewater, 
discharges from our operations do not significantly affect water quality in any  
receiving water bodies.
DUAL REVERSE OSMOSIS (RO) SYSTEMS IN OHIO
In 2019 our Old Fort, Ohio plant installed a second RO unit in series to recover a portion of the 
reverse osmosis system reject water from their process water treatment system. In 2020 the 
second unit contributed to a 24% (7.2 MM gal) reduction in wastewater discharge from the site. 
Prior to operation the site consumed 55% of intake water for production; following installation 
the site consumed 66% of its intake water resulting in less water wasted. Wasted water 
discharged per ton production was down 26%. The project was so successful we are looking at 
other locations where we can implement the process to reclaim the RO system wastewater.
103PRODUCT REFORMULATION
Our Specialty Products Division, Animal and Food Production business 
evaluated the reformulation of  a product produced in our Mason City, Iowa 
plant. The change reduced the amount of water required at the start of 
the process and resulted in savings of more than 1 million gallons of intake 
water for the plant in 2020 (-13% vs 2019). The reduced water volume also 
provided some energy savings in the drying process with annual natural gas 
consumption down 1% in 2020.     
AIR EMISSIONS
In addition to greenhouse gas  emissions discussed in the Climate Change 
section of this Report, several of our facilities report on specific air 
emissions as required by a facility air permit. The chart below represents the 
breakdown of Criteria Air Pollutant emissions as defined by the USEPA for 
those facilities that are required to report air emissions. In 2020, our total 
reported air emissions of criteria pollutants was less than 250 tons with 
approximately 68% being particulates.
2020 CRITERIA AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS (%)
10.5%6.2%
68.4%0.1%0.4%
7.8% Carbon Monoxide
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
Ozone (VOCs)
Particulate Matter
Sulfur Oxides (SOx)
Hazardous Air Pollutants
Other Air Emissions6.6%ABOUT THIS 
REPORT
This 2020 Sustainability 
Report continues 
our commitment 
to transparently 
communicate our 
sustainability efforts.
104105This Report reflects our performance for the year ended December 31, 2020, along with prior data  
and information on changes to our operations, plants and data collection process, where relevant.  
This Report also references 2021 initiatives planned at the time of publishing the Report. 
T o lead the collection of information and the report preparation process, we assembled a team 
representing Environmental, Health & Safety, Finance, Human Resources, Law, Marketing, Operations, 
Procurement and R&D. 
For our 2020 energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) data, we have contracted with an independent third party, 
ERM CVS to evaluate and assure that our energy data collection process and emissions calculations are 
rigorous, inclusive and accurate. The resulting verification statement is not available  
as of the publication of this Report, but will be included with our annual CDP Climate Change Response.
In addition to Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and T ask Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD), this Report is closely aligned with the Global Reporting  
Initiative’s (GRI) Standards. 
We have addressed GRI’s four Reporting Principles in defining the scope and content of this Report:
•   Stakeholder Inclusiveness – This Report addresses those topics that are of greatest interest  
to a broad range of stakeholders.
•   Sustainability Context –  We reference the key sustainability challenges that our company is facing, 
and how our actions and performance fit into the larger context; see for example our discussion of 
responsible sourcing and palm oil.
•  Materiality  – This Report covers our significant economic, environmental and social impacts.
• Completeness – We provide information on our global operations, representing company-wide 
performance throughout 2020..
Employment and Environmental, Health & Safety indicators include all our operated manufacturing and 
distribution facilities, our R&D Corporate T echnical Center and our corporate headquarters, with select 
smaller scale operations excluded. For more information on our company, joint ventures and subsidiaries 
worldwide, please see our Annual Report on Form 10K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 on 
our corporate website (link below).
We welcome input from stakeholders, including customers, consumers, shareholders, nonprofit 
organizations, neighbors and employees, who seek to help us improve our business and sustainability 
performance. Please send questions or comments about this Report to sustainability@churchdwight.com. 
For all other inquiries, please visit our website. 
106SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA 
INDICATOR UNIT 2020 2019 2018 GRI
ENVIRONMENTAL
T otal Energy Use Thousand GJ 1,608 1,649 1,713 302-1
Electricity Thousand kWh 154,746 158,968 161,261 302-1
Natural Gas DecaTherms (US) 857,959 824,550 848,502 302-1
Propane Pounds 302,640 381,565 371,134 302-1
Gasoline Gallons 3,847 3,842 4,241 302-1
Diesel Gallons 111,751 90,066 77,831 302-1
Purchased Steam Short T ons 48,102 72,365 84,493 302-1
Energy Intensity GJ/MM LBS SHP 263 291 309 302-3
Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions  Metric T ons CO2e 93,161 87,540 89,402 305-1
Energy indirect (Scope 2) [location based] GHG Emissions Metric T ons CO2e 72,640 78,157 80,808 305-2
Energy indirect (Scope 2) [market based] 
GHG EmissionsMetric T ons CO2e 7,825 11,659 13,608 305-2
T otal (Scope 1 and Location based Scope 2) GHG Emissions Metric T ons CO2e 165,801 165,697 170,210
Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions- transport only Metric T ons CO2e 225,956 213,892 224,579 305-3
T otal GHG Emissions (Scope 1+ 2 + 3) Metric T ons CO2e 391,756 379,590 394,788
GHG Emissions Intensity
 (Scope 1 + 2)/product shipped Metric T ons CO2e /MM LBS SHP 27 29 31 305-4
T otal GHG Emissions Intensity   
(Scope 1 + 2 + 3)/product shipped Metric T ons CO2e /MM LBS SHP 64 67 71 305-4
T otal GHG Emissions Intensity   
(Scope 1 + 2 + 3)/sales Metric T ons CO2e /MM US$ 
Sales80 87 95 305-4
Net Water Consumption Thousand Gallons 298,350 291,643 292,033 303-5
Water Intake (Withdrawal) Thousand Gallons 495,187 508,841 506,564 303-3
Water Effluent (Discharge) Thousand Gallons 196,837 217,198 214,531 303-4107SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA   (CONTINUED)
INDICATOR UNIT 2020 2019 2018 GRI
ENVIRONMENTAL
Water Intake Intensity/product shipped Thousand Gallons/MM LBS SHP 81.1 90.0 91.3 303-3
T otal Waste Produced T ons 59,769 57,758 61,960 306-2
Hazardous Waste Produced T ons 411 1,130 910 306-2
Non-hazardous Solid Waste Produced T ons 17,643 19,211 20,041 306-2
Wastewater Trucked for Offsite Disposal T ons 25,322 23,745 29,444 306-1
Recycled Non-hazardous Waste Produced T ons 16,392 13,673 11,565 306-2
Waste Produced Intensity/product shipped T ons/MM LBS SHP 9.8 10.2 11.2
Environmental Penalties US $ $3,375 $6,500 $22,500 307-1
T otal Reported Releases T otal 1 4 3
Accidental Releases T otal 0 3 2
Continuous Releases T otal 1 1 1
SOCIAL
T otal Employees T otal 5,108 4,831 4,727 102-7
Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) T otal 4,098 3,833 3,766 102-7
Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) T otal 1,010 998 961 102-8
T otal Female Employees Percent 41 40 41 405-1
Female Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Percent 39 39 39 405-1
Female Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) Percent 49 47 48 405-1
T otal Male Employees Percent 59 60 59 405-1
Male Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Percent 61 61 61 405-1
Male Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) Percent 51 53 52 405-1
Non-binary Employees T otal 0 0 1 405-1
Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred  
(DART) Rate (Global)Recordable Incidents/100 FTE 0.7 0.5 0.8 403-9108SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA   (CONTINUED)
INDICATOR UNIT 2020 2019 2018 GRI
ECONOMIC
Net Sales Billions $4.90 $4.36 $4.15 102-7
Consumer Domestic Sales Millions $3,767.6 $3,302.6 $3,129.9 102-7
Consumer International Sales Millions $828.2 $756.3 $709.5 102-7
Specialty Products Sales Millions $300 $298.8 $306.5 102-7
Employee Giving Fund Distributions Millions $1.1 $1.2 $1.2 201-1
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-1 Name of organization Church & Dwight Co., Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services About Church & Dwight
102-3 Location of headquarters Ewing, New Jersey, US
102-4 Location of operations About Church & Dwight
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form About Church & Dwight 
102-6 Markets served About Church & Dwight 
102-7 Scale of the organization About Church & Dwight
102-8 T otal workforce Sustainability Performance Data
102-9 Supply chainResponsible Sourcing 
See pp.81 of Annual Report (available at investor.churchdwight.com )GRI INDEX 
We align our sustainability reporting with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, an internationally recognized guidance for transparency in 
sustainability performance.
The Index below lists the GRI indicators addressed in this Report, and either includes the information directly or provides a reference to the relevant 
section(s) within this Report. 109GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-10 Significant changes to the organizations and its supply chain About Church & Dwight: Acquisitions/Divestitures
102-11 Precautionary approachProduct Safety  
Products
102-12 External initiativesHow We Engage Stakeholders 
Responsible Sourcing
102-13 Membership in associations How We Engage Stakeholders
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviorSustainability Approach
How We Engage Stakeholders
Responsible Sourcing
102-18 Governance structure See the Corporate Governance section of our website
102-40 List of stakeholder groups How We Engage Stakeholders
102-41 Collective bargaining agreementsInternationally, we employ union employees in France, Mexico and New Zealand. Employees 
covered by collective bargaining agreements represent less than 1% of our total workforce. We 
believe our relations with both our union and non-union employees are satisfactory.
102-42 Selection of stakeholders About This Report
102-43 Approach to engagementHow We Engage Stakeholders
About This Report
102-45 Entities included in the reportOur data includes all operations under Church & Dwight control. We have one joint venture 
(JV), The ARMAKLEEN Company, that is included in our reported data. A second JV , Armand 
Products Company, is not included because we do not have operational control. See p. 7 of our 
2020 Form 10-K.110GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-46 Defining report contentSustainability Approach 
About This Report
102-47 List of material topics How We Assess Material Issues
102-48 Restatements of informationClimate Change – Metrics and T argets
Sustainability Performance Data
102-49 Significant changes in material topics and boundaries There were no significant changes in the topics and boundaries of our reporting for 2020.
102-50 Reporting period About This Report
102-51 Date of previous reportOur previous report was published in 2020 and included performance  
data for calendar year 2019.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point About This Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards, Core option.
102-55 GRI index GRI Index
102-56 External assurance Climate Change – Metrics and T argets111GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
103 Management approach for each material issue
Our Brands: Engaging with customers and consumers; 
integrating sustainabilityOur Brands
Products: Safe ingredients; disclosure Products
Packaging: Consumer-friendly and  
environmentally responsiblePackaging
Employees & Communities: Diversity & inclusion, gender 
equality, employee healthEmployees and Communities 
Workplace Safety & Health
Employees & Communities: Community-enhancing 
philanthropy and outreach Employees and Communities 
Our Brands
Responsible Sourcing: Suppliers’ environmental, labor,  
health & safety and ethical practicesResponsible Sourcing
Environment: Energy and GHGs; water and waste Climate Change
Environment
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
201-1 Direct economic valueAbout Church & Dwight 
Our Brands 
Employees and Communities 
Sustainability Performance Data
201-2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities  
due to climate change  Climate Change – Strategy
CDP Climate Change Response
205-2Communication and training about anti-corruption  
policies and proceduresResponsible Sourcing112GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
301-2 Recycled input materials used Packaging
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy  
Sustainability Performance Data
302-3 Energy intensityEnergy  
Sustainability Performance Data 
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Water
303-3 Water withdrawalWater  
Sustainability Performance Data
303-4 Water dischargeWater  
Sustainability Performance Data
303-5 Water consumptionWater  
Sustainability Performance Data
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissionsClimate Change – Metrics and T argets  
Sustainability Performance Data
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissionsClimate Change – Metrics and T argets  
Sustainability Performance Data
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissionsClimate Change – Metrics and T argets  
Sustainability Performance Data
305-4 GHG emissions intensityClimate Change – Metrics and T argets  
Sustainability Performance Data
305-5 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions Climate Change – Metrics and T argets113GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
305-7 SOx, NOx, and other air emissions Air Emissions
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destinationWater  
Sustainability Performance Data
306-2 Waste by type and disposal methodWaste 
Sustainability Performance Data
306-3 Significant spillsSpills/Releases to the Environment  
Sustainability Performance Data
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Waste
306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Water
307-1 Environmental fines and sanctions2020 Citations & Penalties/Surcharges  
Sustainability Performance Data
308-2Negative environmental impacts in the  
supply chain and actions takenResponsible Sourcing – Palm Oil  
Conflict Minerals
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Workplace Safety & Health
403-2Hazard identification, risk assessment and  
incident investigationWorkplace Safety & Health
403-3 Occupational health services Workplace Safety & Health
403-4Worker participation, consultation and communication on 
occupational health and safetyWorkplace Safety & Health
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Workplace Safety Training
403-6 Promotion of worker health Workplace Safety & Health114GRI INDEX   (CONTINUED)
GRI STANDARD SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health & safety 
impacts directly linked by business relationshipsResponsible Sourcing
403-9 Work-related injuries Workplace Safety – Metrics
Sustainability Performance Data
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programsEmployees and Communities:  
T alent and Development
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 
career development reviewsAll Church & Dwight employees receive  
an annual performance review.
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Responsible Sourcing
413-1 Community engagementOur Brands
Employees and Communities
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Responsible Sourcing
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain Responsible Sourcing
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of  
products and servicesProduct Safety
417-2 Product and service information and labeling Product Safety
417-3 Marketing communicationsChurch & Dwight experienced no incidents of non-compliance with regulations  
or voluntary codes regarding marketing communications in 2020115SASB INDEX 
We are referencing the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) industry-specific sustainability accounting standards covering financially material issues. 
The table below summarizes our disclosures related to the SASB indicators for the Household and Personal Care Products category.
Many of these issues have been included in our CDP Responses and in previous years’ sustainability reports. The table below provides company-wide quantitative 
data where available, as well as references to those report sections where we address relevant sustainability topics. We are working to improve our systems to 
allow greater transparency around products and packaging data in the future.
SASB CODE METRIC/UNIT OF MEASURE REPORT SECTION (OR DIRECT INFORMATION)
WATER MANAGEMENT
CG-HP-140a.1 T otal water withdrawn: Thousand cubic meters (m3) 1,875 thousand cubic meters
CG-HP-140a.1 T otal water consumed: Percentage (%) 60 %
CG-HP-140a.1 Percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress Water, pages 98-104
CG-HP-140a.2Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies  
and practices to mitigate those risksWater, pages 98-104
PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH, AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
CG-HP-250a.1Revenue from products that contain REACH substances of  
very high concern (SVHC)We maintain systems and processes in place to ensure human and 
environmental safety of our products.  For detailed information on how 
we specifically manage the safety of our products and ingredients, see 
our disclosures beginning on page 56 of this Report.
CG-HP-250a.2Revenue from products that contain substances on the California  
DTSC Candidate Chemicals ListWe maintain systems and processes in place to ensure human and 
environmental safety of our products.  For detailed information on how 
we specifically manage the safety of our products and ingredients, see 
our disclosures beginning on page 56 of this Report.
CG-HP-250a.3Discussion of process to identify and manage emerging materials  
and chemicals of concernProduct Safety, page 56
Products, page 54
CG-HP-250a.4 Revenue from products designed with green chemistry principlesWe embrace many of the principles of green chemistry across our 
product innovation/development and processing efforts and continue 
to make progress.  Further information and insights on these areas can 
be found beginning on page 56 of this Report.116SASB INDEX   (CONTINUED)  
WATER MANAGEMENT
PACKAGING LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
CG-HP-410a.1 T otal weight of packaging: Metric tons Approximately 182,000 metric tonnes
CG-HP-410a.1 Percentage made from recycled and/or renewable materials:  Percent (%) Paperboard Sourcing, page 62
CG-HP-410a.1 Percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable: Percent (%) 85%
CG-HP-410a.2Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of packaging  
throughout its lifecyclePackaging, pages 58-63
ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL IMPACTS OF PALM OIL SUPPL Y CHAIN
CG-HP-430a.1 Amount of palm oil sourced: Metric tons 35,000 metric tons
CG-HP-430a.1Percentage certified through the Roundtable on Sustainable  
Palm Oil (RSPO) supply chains as (a) Identity Preserved, (b) Segregated,  
(c) Mass Balance, or (d) Book & claim: Percent (%)See also Palm Oil section, pages 84-85
ACTIVITY METRICS
CG-HP-000.A T otal weight of products sold: Metric tons Approximately 2,770,000 metric tonnes
CG-HP-000.B Number of manufacturing facilities 23117TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES - INDEX 
The Financial Stability Board created the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to improve and increase reporting of  
climate-related financial information. The information below is our first reporting of these metrics in this Report.
TCFD REPORTING SECTION REFERENCED
Governance(a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. Climate Change: Governance  CDP C1.1
(b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing  
climate-related risks and opportunities.Climate Change: Governance CDP C1.2
Strategy(a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has 
identified over the short, medium, and long term.Climate Change: Strategy CDP C2.2, C2.3
(b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.Climate Change: Strategy  CDP C2.3, 2.4
(c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration 
different climate scenarios, including a 2-degree C or lower scenario.Climate Change: Strategy CDP C3.1
Risk Management(a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing  
climate-related risks.Climate Change: Risk Management CDP C2.2
(b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. Climate Change: Risk Management  CDP C2.2
(c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related 
risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.Climate Change: Risk Management CDP C1.1, C2.2
Metrics and T argets(a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks  
and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.Climate Change: Metrics and T argets CDP C4.1, C4.2
(b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions,  
and the related risks.Climate Change: Metrics and T argets CDP C6, C2.2, C2.3
(c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage  
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.Climate Change: Metrics and T argets CDP C4.1, C4.2SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT2020