2
We began in 1846 as a baking soda business. Today, we are a top-tier Consumer Products 
Company with a large portfolio of ‘Brands Consumers Love’, especially the ARM 
& HAMMER™ brand. 
We have a rich heritage of commitment to people and the planet.   Being 
a ‘Friend of the Environment’ is a key element of our business model.  
Over 100 years ago, we began using recycled materials in our cartons. 
We were the first US manufacturer to remove phosphates from laundry 
detergent. We were the first and only corporate sponsor of the first 
Earth Day in 1970. Today, the equivalent of 100% of our global electricity 
needs come from renewable sources. 
We take great pride in fostering an enduring culture of doing well by 
doing good.  By focusing on making meaningful contributions to society, 
in addition to generating shareholder value, we create a stronger, more 
resilient company while contributing to a better world.
In 2018, we continued to progress on our commitment to robust and transparent 
environmental, social and governance practices including:
• More than 50% of our total defined carbon emissions are now offset.
• 98% of our products now disclose ingredients either on-pack or online.
• 25% or 500 skus of our North American products now include new “How-to-Recycle”  
   instructions. 
•  95% of our highest risk suppliers in high-risk geographies were evaluated via our newly 
launched Responsible Sourcing Program.    
•  We purchased 100% certified sustainable palm oil-based ingredients through the RSPO 
credit supply chain. 
In 2005, we established the Church & Dwight Employee Giving Fund, Inc. (EGF), an employee-
run giving program, where employee donations are matched dollar-for-dollar by Church & 
Dwight. The program primarily supports charitable organizations in New Jersey and Eastern 
Pennsylvania. In 2018, approximately $1.2 million and almost 1,000 hours of employee time 
were contributed to 183 local charitable organizations. The EGF is an example of employee 
engagement in local causes in which they have a personal interest. To date, the EGF has 
contributed approximately $10 million to local charitable organizations.
Our focus on sustainability extends to the well-being of our employees and the communities 
in which we operate. We want to connect our brands with consumers to positively impact 
peoples’ lives.  An example is the VITAFUSION™ brand’s Fruit Tree Project. So far, we’ve planted 
over 62,000 fruit trees in underserved communities around the world with a goal of planting 
over 200,000 fruit trees by 2020.
Our continued progress in various areas of corporate responsibility was recognized by inclusion 
in the EPA’s Green Power Partnership Top 100, JUST Capital “America’s Most Just Companies”, 
the FTSE4Good Index Series, and 2018 Barron’s Most Sustainable Companies.  In addition, the 
Company ranked 196th in the Drucker Institute/WSJ “Management Top 250 List”.
Church & Dwighters are goal-oriented people. To create a compass for our sustainability 
program, we have established aggressive goals for ourselves. Our top sustainability goal is to 
achieve carbon neutrality for our global operations by the end of 2025. As a key to achieving 
this, we are planting millions of trees to not only remove carbon dioxide from the environment, 
but also to restore biodiversity to highly stressed geographic areas. In 2018, we planted 3 
million trees in the Mississippi Valley through our partnership with the Arbor Day Foundation. 
We offset greater than 50% of the carbon dioxide that we emit today. We have a roadmap to 
meet our goals, and I’m pleased to report that we are well on our way.  
There is overwhelming evidence that the planet needs to be protected.  At Church & Dwight, 
we choose to be an active participant.  Please read this Report to see the progress we have 
made over the past year in our sustainability efforts.A MESSAGE FROM MATT FARRELL 
Matthew T. Farrell  
President and Chief Executive Officer
Church & Dwight 
ranks 46th in 
Barron’s  
100 Most 
Sustainable  
Companies
3
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ABOUT CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC 
SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA 
ABOUT THIS REPORT
GRI INDEXPILLAR 1 – OUR BRANDS
PILLAR 2 – PRODUCTS
PILLAR 3 – PACKAGING
PILLAR 4 – EMPLOYEES & COMMUNITIES  
PILLAR 5 – RESPONSIBLE SOURCING  
PILLAR 6 – ENVIRONMENT04
08
68
70
7118
28
32
36
48
52
SASB INDEX 744
We were founded in 1846 and incorporated in 
Delaware in 1925.   We develop, manufacture and market a broad 
range of consumer household and personal care products and specialty 
products focused on animal productivity, chemicals and cleaners. Our 
consumer products marketing efforts are focused principally on our 11 “power 
brands.” These well-recognized brand names include ARM & HAMMER baking 
soda, cat litter, laundry detergent, carpet deodorizer and other baking soda 
based products; TROJAN condoms, lubricants and vibrators; OXICLEAN stain 
removers, cleaning solutions, laundry detergents and bleach alternatives; 
SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes; FIRST RESPONSE home 
pregnancy and ovulation test kits; NAIR depilatories; ORAJEL oral analgesic; 
XTRA laundry detergent; L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION gummy dietary 
supplements for children and adults, respectively; BATISTE dry shampoo; and 
WATERPIK water flossers and showerheads. 
We sell our consumer products under a variety of 
brands through a broad distribution platform  that 
includes supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstores, 
convenience stores, home stores, dollar and other discount stores, pet and 
other specialty stores and websites and e-commerce channels, all of which 
sell our products to consumers. We sell our specialty products to industrial 
customers, livestock producers and through distributors.
ABOUT CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC. ABOUT US
2018 net  
sales of  
$4.15B
2018 Total 
Shareholder 
Return of  
33.2%over
4,700 
employees
Publicly traded  
on New York 
Stock Exchange   
(CHD)Headquartered 
in Ewing, NJ5
Over the past 15 years, we have expanded from an almost 
exclusively U.S. business to a global company.  Our Consumer 
International business sells a variety of personal care, household and over-the-counter products 
in international markets. Our expanding global presence includes operations in Canada, France, 
Australia, Germany, the United Kingdom, Mexico and Brazil, and we export our products to 
more than 100 other countries. We manage over 60 brands in international markets including 
global icons ARM & HAMMER™, TROJAN™ and OXICLEAN™, as well as recently acquired brands 
WATERPIK™, ANUSOL™, VIVISCALTM and TOPPIK™.
POWER 
BRANDS 
ABOUT CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC. 
Business  
Segment:Consumer  
DomesticConsumer  
InternationalSpecialty Products
Description:Household and personal 
care productsPrimarily personal  
care products for  
international markets Animal productivity products, bulk  
sodium bicarbonate and specialty  
cleaning products 
2018 Net  
Sales:$3,129.9M $709.5M $306.5M6
Our Specialty Products segment is the largest  
U.S. producer of sodium bicarbonate.  
We sell sodium bicarbonate to businesses along with other specialty inorganic chemicals 
in three product areas: Animal Food & Productivity, Specialty Chemicals and Specialty 
Cleaners. Since the ARM & HAMMER™ animal productivity business began in 1972 with the 
launch of ARM & HAMMER™ baking soda as a feed additive to help dairy cows produce 
more milk, we have built a leading portfolio of nutritional supplements designed to help 
improve the health and productivity of dairy cows.  Over the last five years, we have been 
successful at expanding our product offerings to include unique prebiotics and probiotics 
that helps ensure a well-functioning gastrointestinal tract in dairy cows, beef cattle, poultry 
and other livestock.   
In March 2018, we acquired Passport Food Safety Solutions, 
Inc.,  a leading provider of innovative systems and services to help meat and poultry 
processors consistently address food safety standards. There were no other acquisitions or 
divestitures in 2018 that would have an impact on the data within this Report.
ABOUT US
7
In 2018, our continued progress in various 
areas of corporate responsibility earned 
external recognitions, including the 2018 
Barron’s Most Sustainable Companies  
list and the EPA’s Green Power Partnership Top 100 
list.  Our company ranked 196th in the Drucker Institute/
WSJ “Management Top 250 List”, while also ranking in the 
JUST Capital “America’s Most Just Companies” list and the 
FTSE4Good Index Series.Across every facet of our business, we 
maintain a strong heritage of commitment to 
people and the planet.   In 2018, we continued to meet 
new benchmarks in our promise to foster robust and transparent 
environmental, social and governance practices. Our corporate 
sustainability goals include improving the sustainability profile 
of our products (both packaging and ingredients), reducing our 
environmental footprint (through increased renewable energy 
usage, reduced water consumption and greenhouse gas emissions 
and solid waste to landfill) and positively impacting our employees 
and the communities where we operate.  Further, we are placing 
considerable focus and effort on our supplier base through the 
execution of our Responsible Sourcing Program.
The Church & Dwight Employee Giving 
Fund, Inc. (EGF)  continues its exceptional presence in the 
communities in which we do business.  Now in its fifteenth year, 
the EGF is an employee-run giving program, where employees’ 
donations are matched dollar-for-dollar by us.  While the EGF 
primarily supports charitable organizations in New Jersey and 
Eastern Pennsylvania, we additionally contribute to deserving 
nonprofits benefiting social and other charitable causes.
BARRON’S  100 
MOST  SUSTAINABLE  COMPANIES
8
6 CORE PILLARS  OF 
SUSTAINABILITY9
We place a high priority on operating in a responsible and 
respectful manner.  Our global sustainability platform means conducting our business such 
that we preserve the environment for future generations, provide a safe and healthy working environment 
for our employees, and respect the communities where we work while promoting our continued success. 
Our global sustainability platform is derived from our heritage and organizational values, and it is one of our 
leadership strategies. The following six pillars are the core focus of our sustainability efforts:
Our goals related to each of our sustainability pillars are included 
with the discussion of each pillar on the following pages. 
OUR BRANDS  
Delight consumers with our brands and 
contribute towards a more sustainable world.
PRODUCTS
Provide safe and effective products for 
consumers and the environment.
PACKAGING
Utilize consumer friendly and environmentally  
responsible packaging.
EMPLOYEES & COMMUNITIES 
Embrace the principles of good corporate 
citizenship and social responsibility within the 
communities we can impact. 
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 
Improve our suppliers’ environmental,  
labor, health & safety and ethical practices.
ENVIRONMENT
Minimize environmental impact of our  
global operations.10
OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
We believe that sustainable operations are both 
financially and operationally beneficial to our 
business, and critical to the health of the communities 
in which we operate.  Accordingly, each year we 
publish a Sustainability Report that highlights our 
business and corporate responsibility commitments 
by detailing our financial, environmental, social and 
governance performance.  
How do we govern our sustainability approach?   
In 2018, our Corporate Issues Council continued to guide integrating 
sustainability with all parts of our business, and to drive continuous 
improvement in our sustainability approach and performance.
The Council is comprised of senior Church & Dwight executives 
representing all key functional areas across Church & Dwight including 
Human Resources, Law, Global Operations, Research & Development, 
Marketing and Sales.  The Council takes the lead in defining and 
implementing our sustainability strategies across the six pillars of our 
global sustainability program. Its duties include allocating resources to 
appropriately address sustainability issues; reporting on our progress to 
drive continuous improvement in our sustainability approach  
and performance; and monitoring, prioritizing and addressing evolving 
standards and stakeholder requirements. 
As disclosed more fully in our Proxy Statement, our Board of Directors, 
acting principally through its Governance & Nominating Committee, 
oversee our sustainability program.
11
How do we assess material issues?   
The Global Reporting Initiative defines material issues as those that “have a direct or indirect 
impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental or social 
value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large.”  Defining our material issues is an ongoing 
process. The Corporate Issues Council established the six pillars of our sustainability program by 
collecting issues our stakeholders expressed as sustainability priorities. The Council evaluates 
and ranks various risks and opportunities based on relative impact and likelihood. The Council 
evaluates and discusses the most significant sustainability issues, risks and opportunities we 
face and the functions within Church & Dwight that should be accountable for them. Our 
most significant sustainability issues, risks and opportunities are reflected within each of 
the six pillars of our sustainability program as set forth in this Report. There are additional 
topics included in this Report that may not have reached the same level of materiality but are 
provided for informational purposes.  Note that the concept of “material issues” under Global 
Reporting Initiatives guidelines used for purposes of this Report may differ from the concept of 
“materiality” for purposes of securities laws and disclosures required by the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission’s (SEC) rules. In addition, starting with this Report we are referencing 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board industry specific standards covering potential 
financial material issues.
12
How do we engage stakeholders?
In 2018, we obtained the services of a third-party advisor to gather investment community 
feedback on our strategy, management team, capital allocation, investment case, communications 
efforts and the importance of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues. The interviewees 
surveyed recognize that ESG is growing in importance and they appreciate us for avoiding ESG-
related controversies.
We regularly receive communications and inquiries from our stakeholders regarding our 
sustainability practices. Stakeholder issues are included on the agenda for each Corporate Issues 
Council meeting, and sustainability issues raised by investors and other stakeholders are reviewed 
with the Board’s Governance & Nominating Committee. 
StakeholderOur  
employees
Media
Local 
communities 
& community 
groups
Industry  
trade 
associationsOur  
consumers
Our retail 
customers &  
partners
Our peers  
& suppliers
Shareholders  
& investor 
groupsGovernment 
& regulatory 
bodiesNon-
Governmental 
organizations13
The various methods of engagement with stakeholders are described on the following chart. 
Stakeholder Method of Engagement
Our Employees• Employee engagement surveys 
• Corporate and department town hall meetings 
• Plant meetings 
• Plant management production walk through
• Postings on bulletin boards 
• Web postings on our company intranet site 
• Newsletters – Brand Buzz
• Corporate communications
Our Consumers• Consumer inquiries 
• Consumer surveys 
• Social media postings
• Postings on company website
Our Retail Customers  
& Partners• Trade partner supplier expectations
• Commercial partner inquiries or surveys
• Meetings, conferences, presentations
Our Peers & Supplier s• Peer benchmarking
• Supplier meetings 
• Assessments and disclosure requests
• Trade meetings, conferences or presentations
Shareholders &  
Investor Groups• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings 
• Investor conferences
• Individual communications (written, telephone or web-based)
Government &  
Regulatory Bodies• Monitoring of regulatory activity 
• Face-to-face meetings
• Inspections and surveys
Non-Governmental 
Organizations• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings 
• Participation in boards, advisory councils 
• Reporting and disclosure expectations
Industry Trade Associations• Business association memberships, newsletters, updates, or mailings
• Active leadership and committee engagement 
Local Communities & 
Community Groups• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings
• Charitable donations
Media• Direct inquiries and feedback
• Communications (written, telephone or web-based)
Issues that we determined to be potentially material, under SEC rules, for the Company are 
reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K of our annual report and include environmental 
matters and reputational risk.  
While management has primary responsibility for stakeholder engagement, our Board of Directors 
is regularly informed about these efforts. Within the Board of Directors, the Governance & 
Nominating Committee is dedicated to this communication facilitation as a part of its oversight 
role.  Our Independent Lead Director (and chair of the Governance & Nominating Committee) is 
responsible for ensuring that stockholder sustainability requests, recommendations and proposals 
are evaluated by the Committee, additional committees within the Board as appropriate, and then 
by the Board of Directors, if needed.      
We work with our local communities to address concerns relating to our operations. We engage 
with them through multiple channels including this Report, our filings with the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission, our website and one-on-one communications. 14
CDP®
CDP is a not-for-profit organization that operates a global disclosure 
system to provide consistent reporting of key environmental impacts. In 
2018, we reported to CDP our energy use and carbon dioxide emissions 
from global operations, and the use of palm oil derivatives within our 
supply chain. CDP scores the response and in 2018 we improved from a 
score of C to a B on the Climate questionnaire; we received B scores on the 
Forest questionnaire related to palm oil sourcing in both 2017 and 2018. 
www.cdp.net/en
Responsible Care®
Through our Specialty Products Division, Specialty Chemicals 
Group, we actively participate in Responsible Care®, the American 
Chemistry Council’s voluntary program to help companies reduce their 
environmental impacts, health and safety, and security performance 
beyond U.S. environmental and safety regulations and standards. SPD 
applies the Responsible Care Management System (RCMS), which 
is a structured approach to improving environmental performance; 
security; product distribution; employee health and safety; pollution 
prevention; and process and product safety. In addition, for customer 
stakeholder engagement, a semi-annual customer satisfaction survey 
is distributed and results evaluated for opportunities to improve. 
Included are questions related to the elements of Responsible Care. 
We rely on a third-party auditing firm to confirm and re-certify our 
adherence with the RCMS technical standards.
www.responsiblecare.com
In addition to the methods already outlined, we also 
connect with stakeholders through industry groups, 
associations and coalitions including the following:15
Product Care®
We are a member of Product Care®, the Household and 
Commercial Products Association (HCPA) product stewardship 
program. Through Product Care®, we participate in training 
sessions and mentor relationships with other member companies. 
Together with CSPA we are currently developing industry-wide 
management principles across seven product life cycle areas, 
ranging from product design to anticipated disposal needs. 
www.thehcpa.org
The American Cleaning Institute (ACI)
The ACI, of which we are a member and hold a board 
seat, is the home of the U.S. Cleaning Products Industry®, 
representing producers of household, industrial and 
institutional cleaning products, their ingredients and 
finished packaging, oleochemical producers, and chemical 
distributors to the cleaning product industry. The ACI was 
established in 1926, and its members have engaged in “social 
sustainability” efforts long before that terminology came 
into being. Member companies continue to be passionate 
about their work to create products that provide hygiene 
and cleanliness, in a manner that is environmentally sound, 
socially responsible and economically viable, without 
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their 
needs. ACI and its member companies are committed to a 
mission that endeavors to drive sustainability improvements 
across our industry and throughout our supply chain.
www.cleaninginstitute.org
16
Council for Responsible Nutrition (CRN)
We hold an Executive Committee Board membership in CRN.  CRN and 
its members share a commitment to improving public health through 
nutrition, including the appropriate use of dietary supplements and 
functional foods. In pursuit of this goal, CRN’s members pledge to 
observe and uphold the highest ethical principles in their dealings with 
their customers, suppliers, competitors, regulators and consumers. As 
a Board member, we are deeply committed to ensuring the highest 
standards of product quality, safety and environmental responsibility. 
www.crnusa.org
Personal Care Products Council (PCPC)
The Personal Care Products Council and its member companies – which 
represent the global cosmetic and personal care products industries – 
are committed to doing their part to make the world better. Whether it is 
conducting business to reflect environmental responsibility, supporting 
numerous charitable causes, or demonstrating the importance of 
giving back to our communities by providing jobs and professional 
development, our industry’s impact on the world is significant. Starting 
in 2010, the PCPC has advanced three Sustainability Principles that 
demonstrate the industry’s commitment to sustainability, including the 
environment, society, and economy. As a member company and board 
seat holder, we are fully committed to actively work with PCPC to further 
the industry sustainability goals.
www.personalcarecouncil.org
The Sustainable Packaging Coalition
The Sustainable Packaging Coalition is a membership-based 
collaborative that believes in the power of industry to make packaging 
more sustainable.  They are the leading voice on sustainable packaging 
and are passionate about creating packaging that is good for people 
and the environment.  
www.sustainablepackaging.org
17
The Sustainability Consortium
The Sustainability Consortium is a global organization transforming 
the consumer goods industry to deliver more sustainable consumer 
products. They are dedicated to improving the sustainability of 
consumer products.  Members and partners include manufacturers, 
retailers, suppliers, service providers, NGOs, civil society organizations, 
governmental agencies and academics. Each member brings valuable 
perspectives and expertise. TSC convenes diverse stakeholders to work 
collaboratively to build science-based decision tools and solutions that 
address sustainability issues that are materially important throughout 
a product’s supply chain and lifecycle. TSC also offers a portfolio of 
services to help drive effective implementation.  
www.sustainabilityconsortium.org
Improved Sustainability Performance
Our biggest retail customer, Walmart, in conjunction with The Sustainability 
Consortium (a member driven, global organization dedicated to improving the 
sustainability of consumer products through sound science) conducts an annual 
sustainability survey for all suppliers by product category. The survey gathers and 
analyzes information across a product’s life cycle from sourcing, manufacturing 
and transporting, to selling, customer usage and post-use. 
The purpose of the survey is to: 
• Improve the sustainability of products 
• Integrate sustainability into the business of buying and selling merchandise 
• Reduce cost, improve product quality and create a more resilient supply chain 
• Strengthen consumers’ trust in retailers and the brands they carry 
Church & Dwight made significant gains as measured 
by these survey results in 2018. We improved our 
sustainability score in 15 out of the 16 product categories 
in which we compete. 18
DELIGHT CONSUMERS  
WITH OUR BRANDS  
& CONTRIBUTE  
TOWARD A MORE  
SUSTAINABLE WORLDOUR  
BRANDS
 Integrate sustainability into our brands and marketing efforts.
 Utilize our brands to drive awareness and engagement  
around sustainability. 19
Removing, reducing and restricting the use of materials that 
may present human health or environmental toxicity risks.
Optimizing product and package design to reduce materials.
Maximizing the use of sustainably sourced materials.
Supporting recycling by designing with recyclable materials 
and communicating recyclability.Our goal is to delight our customers and consumers 
with high-quality, affordable products.
We continually challenge ourselves to create and develop products with new and 
distinctive features that meet ever-changing consumer needs and preferences. From 
the earliest design stages to the end of consumer use, we explore ways to reduce the 
environmental impacts of our product formulation and packaging. We have established 
sustainability goals related to our packaging and ingredients, and will continue to 
provide updates on our progress in future reports. 
Meeting our goals requires:  
20
FDA regulations govern a variety of matters relating to our products, such as 
product development, manufacturing, premarket clearance or approval, advertising 
and distribution.  The regulations and standards imposed by the FDA and similar 
non-U.S. agencies evolve over time and can require us to make changes in our 
manufacturing processes and quality systems to maintain compliance.  These 
agencies periodically inspect our manufacturing and other facilities.   
If we fail to comply with applicable regulations and standards,  
we may be subject to sanctions, including fines and penalties, 
recall of products and/or cessation of manufacturing  
and/or distribution.  
In addition, we sell products that are subject to 
regulation under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and 
Rodenticide Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, 
both of which are administered by the EPA.  We are 
subject to regulation by the FTC with respect to the 
content of our labeling, advertising, promotion, trade 
practices and other matters.
The CPSC administers the Poison Prevention Packaging 
Act, and has issued regulations requiring special child 
resistant packaging for certain products, including 
pharmaceuticals, dietary supplements, and 
dietary substances containing certain ingredients 
(e.g., iron).
We have strict policies and procedures in place to ensure compliance 
with applicable laws and regulations, and that our products and 
packaging are safe for consumer use. With the guidance of 
toxicologists, trade associations and external scientific experts, 
we actively monitor the latest science on any emerging 
chemicals of risk. Based on this guidance, as warranted, we 
develop and execute action plans to remove chemicals of 
concern present in any of the products we market.Product Safety  
Many of our products are subject to regulation by one or more U.S. agencies, 
including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and  
the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). Our activities also are 
regulated by various agencies and other localities in which we sell  
our products.  
OUR  
BRANDS21
Brand Support in the Communities 
Our drive to improve the communities where we work and live is realized when we donate 
and volunteer. Various brands have their own unique way of giving back to communities they 
can impact the most.In 2018 we continued our product sustainability journey, including developing more than 35 
improved product reformulations. We expanded our offerings of highly concentrated unit 
dose laundry detergent pods, which saved water in the manufacturing process, reduced 
the amount of packaging used relative to traditional liquid laundry detergent products, and 
provided more efficient means of product transportation. 
Brands  
Consumers  
 Love22
VITAFUSION™ & the Fruit Tree 
Planting Foundation “Delivering 
Sustainable Delicious Nutrients for 
Generations to Come”    
VITAFUSION™, America’s #1 gummy vitamin brand, 
continued the partnership with the Fruit Tree Planting 
Foundation in 2018 to expand our fruitful footprint. Together, 
we are dedicated to planting fruit trees in under-served 
communities to provide access to nutrient-rich fruit while 
improving our surrounding air, soil and water. The initiative 
helps support healthy lifestyles in a sustainable, nutritious 
and fun way. 
In 2018, we planted 52,071 fruit trees for communities in 
need across the U.S. and internationally for a positive impact 
today, and for generations to come. 
OUR  
BRANDS
The sustainable footprint from  
these green-scapes include: 
 PROVIDING 7 million pieces of fresh fruit for  
under-served communities
 REMOVING 11 million pounds of carbon dioxide 
from the atmosphere 
GENERATING 9 million pounds of oxygen 
FILTERING 331 thousand pounds of air pollutants
23
STATEN ISLAND, NY
MIAMI, FLSAN FRANCISCO, CA
LOS ANGELES, CA
EL SALVADOR UGANDAHOUSTON, TX
We are in the second year of our program and have planted  
62,671 trees and continue to expand our fruitful footprint to  
reach 200,000 fruit trees by 2020!  In 2018, edible forests continued to sprout up in city parks,  
community centers and schools in the following communities:24
Partnering with Advocates for Youth to execute the fourth year of our “Consent.  
Ask for It” Campaign.  This program directly impacts 75 colleges and university campuses 
across the U.S., with education and awareness activities to further the consent conversation.
Working with the Great American Condom Campaign – a youth-led grassroots movement 
to make the U.S. a sexually healthy nation – to donate more than one million condoms to 
student run safe sites in a peer-to-peer program on college campuses. 
Supporting our partnership with Alexander Wang and activation at New York City Pride with 
a $50,000 donation to the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender (LGBT) Community Center 
of New York.
Donating to Princeton Hospital HiTOPS, a Princeton-based non-profit that focuses on 
adolescent sexual health education and support, and to Iris House, a HIV/AIDS agency 
focused on providing family focused support and prevention services. 
Donating more than one million condoms to health departments across the U.S. annually as 
part of a long-standing partnership with the National Coalition of STD Directors to refocus 
attention, resources, and consumer education on condoms as a highly effective form of STD 
and unintended pregnancy prevention. Through this partnership, which is referenced on our 
condom boxes, we also continue to promote the “Condoms (STILL) Work!” Campaign. TROJAN™ Develops Sexual Health Program   
As the manufacturer and distributor of TROJAN™ brand condoms, we are committed to 
increasing awareness among young adults in the U.S. about the risks of unprotected sex, 
notably unintended pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). In 2018, we 
worked toward this goal by:
OUR  
BRANDS25
Raising awareness about the disease of infertility, and encouraging the public to  
understand their reproductive health as a part of National Infertility Awareness Week®. 
Donating over 10,000 Pregnancy and Ovulation Tests annually to dozens of “Walks of Hope”  
across the US, in support of those with infertility. 
Promoting RESOLVE on millions of Ovulation Test kit packaging for over a decade.
Through our continued partnerships with medical experts and  
family-building organizations, FIRST RESPONSE is committed to providing the  
latest research and information for couples planning to grow their families.  FIRST RESPONSE Partners with RESOLVE, 
The National Infertility Association     
Since 2007, the FIRST RESPONSE brand team has partnered  
with RESOLVE, the National Infertility Association. RESOLVE 
provides compassionate support and community, advocacy  
for coverage, access to care, education, and awareness of all  
family building options. This important partnership includes:26
OUR  
BRANDS
Arm & Hammer Cat Litter   
Through our global operations network, ARM & HAMMER Pet Care donates litter 
to local ASPCAs. The Brand has donated over 1 million pounds of litter to local 
shelters across the U.S. in the past 18 months and will continue these efforts in 
2019. 
ARM & HAMMER Cat Litter has made sponsorship donations to Mac’s Fund, a 
charity that is dedicated to the wellbeing of community and shelter cats in 
and around our local area. They support local rescue 
organizations through education and financial assistance.
ARM & HAMMER Cat Litter is a proud sponsor of the 
Morris Animal Refuge, America’s First Animal Shelter. 
ARM & HAMMER Cat Litter has sponsored events that 
help with homeless animal fostering and adoption.
27
ARM & HAMMER™ Supports Farms and their Animals 
Through Optimum Nutrition   
Within our Specialty Products Division, the Animal and Food Production business 
delivers high-quality microbial and nutritional solutions to livestock producers to 
enhance animal health and performance. Our mission is to help farmers feed the 
world while taking the best care of their animals, their families, the environment 
and communities where we live, work and play. We are committed to continuously 
working to innovate and advance our portfolio of animal nutrition and food 
production offerings.
Green-e Program   
We achieved independent certification of 
our renewable energy purchases for all U.S. 
operations through the Green-e program.  
Green-e is a program of the nonprofit Center 
for Resource Solutions and is North America’s 
leading independent consumer protection 
program. Green-e offers verification services 
and certification through Green-e Energy 
which certifies renewable energy that meets 
environmental and consumer protection 
standards. We began incorporating the 
Green-e logo on our North America product 
line in 2018 and anticipate approximately 50% 
of our in-house manufactured products will 
be labeled by the end of 2019. For additional 
information on the Green-e program visit. 
www.green-e.orgTo learn more about the Animal Productivity business, visit  
AHanimalnutrition.com
28
1 The chemicals of concern are derived from applicable global regulations and customer / retailer guidelines.
PROVIDE SAFE &  
EFFECTIVE PRODUCTS 
FOR CONSUMERS &  
THE ENVIRONMENTPRODUCTS
 Remove 100% of Chemicals of Concern1 from formulated products 
by 2020 and timely elimination from acquired products.
 
 Disclose ingredients on all formulated products by 2020.29
We are committed to developing 
safe and sustainable products for 
our consumers and the environment, 
including removing Chemicals of Concern from our 
formulated (consumer) products, developing new 
products that meet our Chemicals of Concern 
process requirements, and being transparent 
about the ingredients in our products. Our goal 
is to remove 100% of Chemicals of Concern 
from formulated products by 2020, and 
timely eliminate them from new products 
through aquistions. We also plan to disclose 
ingredients on all formulated products in the 
same timeframe.   
1.  INGREDIENT SELECTION:  Evaluate the efficacy and safety of each ingredient 
at its proposed concentration level, using published regulatory lists, including the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Safer Choice Ingredient list and chemicals of 
concern as noted by our stakeholders.
2.  INGREDIENT/FINISHED PRODUCT EVALUATION:  Determine potential human 
exposure and evaluate the safety of proposed ingredients/product under normal 
use and reasonably foreseeable misuse conditions.
3.  PRE-MARKET SAFETY CLEARANCE:  Develop a pre-market safety dossier on 
the finished product to ensure that all safety and sustainability criteria are reviewed 
prior to manufacture and prior to shipment to customers.
4.  POST-MARKET EVALUATION:  Conduct post-market surveillance and gather 
customer and consumer feedback.
TO MEET THESE GOALS, WE HAVE DEVELOPED A FOUR-STEP 
INGREDIENT AND PRODUCT ASSURANCE PROCESS:30
PRODUCTS
Product Disclosure   
We devote significant attention and care to transparently disclosing ingredient and  
safety information for our products. Safety Data Sheets for our products are available at 
www.churchdwight.com.  We disclose ingredients in all our products in accordance with the 
relevant federal regulations, and continue to work towards full ingredient transparency by 
2020. To that end, all formulated consumer products have online ingredient disclosures and 
approximately 98% of our products have either on-pack or online disclosure
While all our brands work to meet consumer needs safely, VITAFUSION™ and L’IL CRITTERS™  
exemplify the transparency and simple effectiveness we seek to achieve.  Fragrance and Flavor Assurance Process   
Fragrances and flavors are important to our consumers, and we take 
care to tailor our products to their preferences, while assuring that 
all ingredients used to create these attributes are safe and meet our 
Chemicals of Concern process. We design all fragrance mixtures to comply 
with the safety standards set by the International Fragrance Association, 
and all flavor mixtures to those of the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers 
Association and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. We also conduct 
comprehensive safety reviews on all fragrances used, based on expected 
patterns of consumer use. As existing fragrance and flavor ingredients 
come under regulatory review, we revise current products to comply 
with the new guidelines. Additionally, we specially manufacture mild and 
fragrance-free products for consumers with sensitive skin.   
31
VITAFUSION™ and L ’IL 
CRITTERS™ gummy vitamins 
give consumers what they 
need and nothing they don’t.   
America’s #1 gummy vitamin brands, 
VITAFUSION™ and L’IL CRITTERS™, offer 
products that are 100% free of artificial 
flavors, high fructose corn syrup, synthetic 
(FD&C) dyes, gluten and dairy. The ultra-
healthy formulations combined with 
delicious natural fruit flavors have helped 
consumers across the country fall in love 
with our vitamins! 
32
UTILIZE CONSUMER-FRIENDLY 
& ENVIRONMENTALLY  
RESPONSIBLE PACKAGINGPACKAGING
 Ensure greater than 95% of global product packaging is recyclable  
by 2025.
 Ensure all non-pharma product packaging is free from PVC, including 
timely elimination from newly acquired products.
 Source all paper and board packaging from recycled material and/or 
sustainably managed forests by end of 2020.
33
Church & Dwight is committed to developing and producing 
consumer friendly and environmentally responsible packaging 
improvements across all our Global brands.   
In 2018, we worked with a number of sustainability partners including the Sustainable Packaging 
Coalition (SPC), Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR) and the Recycled Paperboard Alliance (RPA), 
Western Michigan University (WMU), as well as innovative packaging material suppliers to implement 
improvements against a number of our sustainability goals.
Package Recycling Education    
We partnered with the Sustainable Packaging Coalition to include 
How2Recycle Labels on our North American packages.  During 2018 the 
How2Recycle® Label was incorporated into 500 product sku’s. This has 
now increased the adoption to more than 25% of the North American 
portfolio, informing our consumers how to recycle correctly. More 
information on the How2Recycle® Labels can be found at  
www.How2Recycle.info .
Packaging Recyclability 
Innovations    
During 2018 we worked with Eastman Chemical, Sun 
Chemical and Multi-Color Corporation to trial and 
test the use of a new shrink sleeve label de-seaming 
technology which automatically detaches the label 
from the plastic bottle. This process is the subject of 
an APR Responsible Innovation Program. It requires 
no consumer separation in home but still allows 
the bottle to be correctly detected in the recycling 
center, rendering the bottle “widely recyclable.” To 
our knowledge, this is the first brand adoption of this 
technology and we plan to scale this across the entire 
Vitafusion vitamin bottle line in 2019.
34
We recently launched a new range of OxiClean Dark Protect products in North America.  Before 
launching these products in a standard black plastic which is non-recyclable, we searched for ways 
to match the brand image and still produce a recyclable package.  We worked with color technology 
suppliers, recycling equipment manufacturers and the APR team’s new testing protocol to create a 
packaging portfolio which appears black but could remain detectable across most recycling facilities in 
North America.
Our premium cat litter products (Clump & Seal, 
Slide, C&S Lightweight) require a barrier carton to 
maintain product performance. These cartons were 
not recyclable at all facilities and were, therefore, 
originally designated “check locally”.  C&D worked 
with the How2Recycle® team and RPA who referred 
us to Western Michigan University.  Through 
development and testing work with our supplier 
partners, we were able to successfully pass tests 
for repulpability and recyclability of our cartons 
and provided the data to the How2Recycle® team. 
The 38lb and 40lb sizes, in addition to all sizes 
of C&S Lightweight, have now been classified as 
“widely recycled”. This results in over 12 million 
pounds of paperboard being recyclable.  We 
are in the process of developing and testing the 
remaining premium litter cartons and laundry 
cartons in 2019.OUR  
PACKAGING
35
Paperboard Sourcing    
We have been working with our paperboard suppliers to ensure that the corrugated and 
carton board we use in our packaging comes from 100% Recycled board materials or comes 
from sustainably sourced forests and is managed throughout the supply chain in a responsible 
manner. Through this work in 2018, we have ensured that the approximately 98% of our 
material is responsibly sourced and we will continue to work with our remaining suppliers to 
drive towards 100% recycled board material in 2020.
Packaging Lifecycle Impact    
Upon implementation of our Packaging Sustainable Guidelines in 2017, 
we completed a review of Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) solutions to drive an 
improvement in the packaging footprint of all future product innovations.  
We selected an LCA solution and have implemented it into the Packaging 
Development process.  This technology allows us to more effectively 
evaluate future innovation designs on the basis of improving greenhouse 
gas emissions, minimizing material usage, and increasing recycled content 
and recyclability.  
TerraCycle
We continue our partnership with TerraCycle, an innovative 
recycling company that has become a global leader in hard-
to-recycle packaging waste. Through approximately 1,000 
Terracycle collection points, we are collecting packaging, 
Baking Soda and Unit Dose laundry detergent pouches,  
that typically are not recyclable and making them a 
recyclable commodity.
Watch the video to learn more!
https:/ /www.youtube.com/watch?v=XIpo0dBzNb898%  
RESPONSIBLY  
SOURCED
100%   
RECYCLED  
BOARD
36
EMPLOYEES  
& 
COMMUNITIES
EMBRACE THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD 
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP AND 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY WITHIN THE 
COMMUNITIES WE CAN IMPACT
 Integrate sustainability into our corporate brand and employer  
value proposition, emphasizing our environmental heritage and  
future commitments.
 Enhance our Corporate Social Responsibility program to include  
goals, programs and commitments around diversity & inclusion, 
gender equality, and health & well-being.
 Establish community enhancing, philanthropic programs and 
initiatives at our global operating sites.37
As of December 31, 2018, Church & Dwight had just over  
4,700 employees. 
We drive company performance by unleashing the power of people. We attract and hire 
best in class talent to ensure high levels of financial and sustainability performance. We 
pride ourselves in fostering a culture that values and encourages collaboration, honesty, 
accountability, respect, continuous learning and our sustainability commitment through  
the following model: 
Maintaining a small, flat organization to remain fast-paced and nimble. Employees are 
urged to take initiative and ownership and our structure gives them the opportunity 
to make an impact regardless of title. Our goal is for everyone, at every level, at every 
location, to be engaged in the business.
Fostering an entrepreneurial spirit where action is encouraged. We are extremely 
competitive externally, but not internally. Open and honest communication among 
departments, functions and employees builds a mutual respect that enables us to 
challenge each other, leading to more cohesive teams.
Creating an environment of honest, open failure.  This encourages action and informed 
risk-taking while avoiding complacency.
Learning from both successes and failures to compete and win in the marketplace.
Maintaining mutual respect so that we can challenge each other to reach higher. This 
results in a strong, motivated group of employees that takes pride in our company and 
our brands.
Dedicating ourselves to sustaining the top-tier performance that will take our 
company to increasingly higher levels.38
 
EMPLOYEES  
& 
COMMUNITIES
Training & Development    
We are committed to ensuring that all employees 
have the opportunities, tools and resources to 
develop and drive their careers. Church & Dwight 
employees gain valuable experience in the increasing 
responsibilities and opportunities for success in their 
jobs. Employees broaden their skills by participating 
in cross functional projects and assignments.
We continue to deliver LEAP (Leadership 
Empowerment Achievement Program). LEAP was 
launched in January 2017 with topics to support the 
increased capabilities of our leaders.
We launched an employee survey focusing on our 
mission and values, resulting in action plans for 
change created throughout the organization.
2018 DAY OF SERVICE39
2020 Behaviors    
Our “secret sauce” is the Church & Dwight culture. We describe ourselves as “blue collar” (roll up 
your sleeves) with high aptitude and an underdog mentality. 
In 2018, we added a new behavioral focus on Digital in order to embrace solutions and technology, 
and on Disruption through appropriate risk taking to compete in the market. The 2020 Behaviors 
were launched company wide in early 2018 and have been incorporated into performance 
management. We are evolving our culture to be digitally savvy and disruptive to maintain the 
speed necessary to win in the digital world. The 2020 Behaviors are:In the Fall of 2017, we began a Digital Mentorship program, called 
What the WiFi?!?, which paired cross-functional senior leaders with 
digitally savvy mentors. The pairs met weekly for eight weeks to 
cover a curriculum of apps, social media and business tools. In 2018, 
the remaining 85 senior leaders in our corporate offices “graduated” 
from the program. This program led to an increase of digital usage 
and aptitude and fostered interdepartmental communication 
between our employees.
DIGITAL SAVVY
POSITIVE ATTITUDE
AIM HIGH
SIMPLIFY
HELP OUT
DISRUPTION2020 BEHAVIORS DESCRIPTORS
• Learns and adopts existing and new digital solutions and technologies
• Anticipates the business and talent impact of emerging technologies
• Maintains a positive attitude despite adversity  
• Bounces back from setbacks and grows from the experience  
• Approaches work with high energy and enthusiasm  
• Makes sense of complex situations and information to quickly arrive at   
   useful solutions
• Designs and improves system and processes to get things done more        
   effectively and efficiently
• Creates understanding across a variety of audiences through effective and    
   clear communications
• Partners with others to get work done
• Works cooperatively across the organization
• Gains trust and support of others
• Creates new and better ways for the organization to be successful
• Can take a create idea and put it into practice
• Identifies and seizes new opportunities with a sense of urgency• Shows personal commitment and takes action to continuously improve  
•  Has high performance standards and pushes self and others to 
consistently achieve results
• Gets the most out of limited resources  
40
Where People 
Matter 
EMPLOYEES  
& 
COMMUNITIES
In the spring of 2018, we rolled out Modern Workplace, a new way to 
increase employees’ digital IQ as part of the 2020 Digital initiative. 
Modern Workplace provides the software tools needed to communicate, 
collaborate and innovate with colleagues across Church & Dwight globally. 
Office 365 provides contemporary and dynamic technology; tools and 
services, such as, Teams (a digital hub for teamwork that brings people, 
content, conversations and apps together in one place), Planner (a tool 
that offers a simple and highly visual way to organize teamwork), Yammer 
(a cloud-based service that offers a private, collaborative social network 
for organizations), an enriched intranet and more efficient ways to 
accomplish everyday tasks.
The Red Bandana Award on Yammer 
We launched the Red Bandana/Disruptor Award.  This program 
recognizes employees and helps make Church & Dwight a 
place where people matter. The Red Bandana award is given to 
employees, below the director level, who exhibit behaviors that 
support the 2020 strategy and vision and achieved significant 
business impact.
Connections 
Connections is a year-long on-boarding program that was 
designed to help new hires understand our business, values 
and 2020 strategy. In 2018, we expanded our topics to include 
a dedicated section on our sustainability efforts and goals. This 
gives us the opportunity to set expectations and share Church & 
Dwight’s serious commitment to people and the environment with 
every employee as they join our culture.
41
Celebrating Earth Week & America 
Recycles Day 
Our employees celebrated Earth Week and America Recycles Day 
this year with several activities focused on sustainability. We hosted 
information booths for our employees to learn about preservation 
from organizations such as Arbor Day Foundation, TerraCycle, 
Sustainable Princeton, and the Conserve Wildlife Foundation of NJ. 
We also held an electronic waste collection, bringing in over 1,600 
pounds for recycling. Employees also received approximately  600 
tree saplings to plant at their homes.
During Earth Week, we planted a fruit tree orchard at our 
Corporate office to enhance our green space with several different 
varieties. In addition, we posted new recycling communication 
in all conference rooms and near all trash/recycling receptacles, 
culminating with an educational awareness video on America 
Recycles Day to help increase awareness of recyclable items. 
Finally, over the course of the year, we added water bottle filling 
stations in our corporate headquarters and R&D facility to help 
drive bottle waste reduction and re-use. Since their installation, 
over 61,000 plastic bottles have been saved through the use of 
these filling stations. Workplace Flexibility (WPF) 
One pillar of our 2020 strategy is to create a work environment where people 
matter and love to work. We know WPF has proven to increase employee 
engagement, improve business results and is a competitive advantage.  WPF 
takes many forms and is not one size fits all, so our leaders evaluate the various 
roles in their departments, and in the spirit of what’s possible, figure out how to 
best support flexibility in their respective areas.
Green Team 
The Green Team is a small group of like-minded volunteers from  
different departments.  Since their inception, they have accomplished: 
Eliminating all paper forms in our new hire on-boarding process, 
completely moving to a digital delivery.    
Adopting e-signature for our employment offer delivery and acceptance 
process.  
Making double-sided printing the default setting on office printers  
in order to reduce our environmental impact.
Implementing an electronic procedure for requesting and  
on-boarding temporary personnel  that simplifies and automates  
the process while reducing waste.
1,600 
POUNDS  
OF ELECTRONICS 
RECYCLED
600 TREE  
SAPLINGS TO 
PLANT42
 
EMPLOYEES  
& 
COMMUNITIES
Employee Giving Fund 
We feel strongly that, as a member of the communities where 
we operate, our success should be shared. To that end, in 
2005, we established the Church & Dwight Employee Giving 
Fund, Inc. (EGF), a workplace giving program that primarily 
supports charitable organizations in New Jersey and Eastern 
Pennsylvania, and expanded to Colorado for our employees at 
WATERPIK.  Each year, we invite our employees to dedicate 
a portion of their paychecks to the EGF. The Company 
encourages employee donations by offering additional time off 
depending on their level of giving, and matching all employee 
contributions dollar-for-dollar, with no cap. In 2018, about 45% 
of the Ewing and Princeton employees pledged their support 
to the EGF, with an average annual financial contribution per 
participating employee of over $1,380. 
Through our annual grant process in 2018, the EGF awarded 
$1.2 million to 183 deserving organizations in a variety 
of areas, including animal rescue, disadvantaged youth, 
domestic violence, education, health, homelessness, hunger 
relief, military services, preservation of the environment, 
services for the elderly, and the visual and performing arts. 
Employees are encouraged to sponsor applications for 
their favorite charities, and funding preference is given to 
those organizations with an employee sponsor.  In addition, 
to our annual grant process, the EGF coordinates workplace 
collection drives and fundraisers year-round (including a 
backpack drive, Toys for Tots, and a cold weather clothing drive), 
and supports individual employee fundraising activities (e.g. 5K 
charity races), and provides disaster relief support as needed.
In the years since its inception, the EGF has become a cherished 
part of our culture. Through 2018, the EGF has awarded about 1,800 
grants totaling over $11M to charitable organizations throughout 
the areas where our employees live and work. 
43
HomeFront NJ, a local nonprofit that provides services for 
homeless youth and families in Central New Jersey, is one 
of EGF’s signature partners.  Each year the EGF supports  
HomeFront NJ’s work through both grants and volunteerism. In 2018, we 
continued two annual traditions as our employees served a holiday dinner 
to homeless families and volunteered at HomeFront’s Camp Mercer – a 
summer day camp for homeless youth.  
The EGF also coordinated our 6th Annual Week of Service, 
providing a variety of opportunities for our Ewing employees 
to donate their time and give back directly to our surrounding 
communities. During one week in June, over 380 employees 
participated in 27 events, donating over 1,000 hours to our 
partner organizations. At the culmination of the week, we 
hosted our popular EGF Organization Showcase at our 
Ewing headquarters, during which EGF grantees 
were  invited to share information on their 
organizations and educate employees on more 
ways to get involved.
In 2018, over $60,000 was donated from the EGF to assist with relief and recovery efforts 
in response to the devastation caused by Hurricane Michael along the Florida Panhandle, 
Hurricane Florence across North & South Carolina, and the California wildfires.2013 2014Employees Donating Hours Donated
2015 2016 2017 2018116288 3003784599521000.4
704
505471
129467380 
EMPLOYEES  
PARTICIPATED
27 EVENTS
1,000  
HOURS44
 
EMPLOYEES  
& 
COMMUNITIES
In addition to the work done through the 
EGF, we also support the local community 
in a variety of ways, including acting as a 
principle sponsor of the Princeton Half 
Marathon. This annual event benefits 
HiTops, a local organization that helps 
adolescents increase their access to life-
changing health information and develop 
and improve decision-making skills at a 
time in their lives when they need it most.  
45
To the Rescue 
Church & Dwighters rolled up their sleeves in 2018 to 
support a great cause – Pet Adoption. We kicked-off 
the first “ARM & HAMMER™ to the Rescue” event in 
September at the Arm & Hammer Park, home to the 
Trenton Thunder, a Double-A Affiliate of the New York 
Yankees. The ARM & HAMMER™ team partnered with 
three New Jersey based animal shelters to help some 
furry friends find forever homes: Pet Rescue of Mercer, 
Animal Friends for Education and Welfare, and EASEL 
Animal Rescue League! Each shelter received a grant 
from the EGF as well as numerous applications for cat 
and dog adoptions. 
The event was supported with local outreach and 
media, and also reached 567,000 people on Facebook 
and generated 1,000 posts on Instagram using 
#ArmAndHammerToTheRescue. Finally, as a result of 
the engagement on Instagram, we donated $15,000 
to Humane Society of Ventura County to aid efforts 
related to California Wild Fires, setting up shelters for 
abandoned animals.
 
46
Workplace Safety  
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all employees 
and visitors to our facilities. This commitment is evident by active employee 
safety committees at each of our global operations.  Within these committees, 
employee representatives of all levels can freely raise and discuss safety 
concerns for appropriate action.  We use several metrics to evaluate our safety 
performance, of which “DART” rate and “recordable” rate serve as the historical 
performance indicators.
The DART rate is a term indicating 
the number of accidents resulting in 
an injury with Days Away, Restricted, 
or Transferred from normal job duties 
and normalized to hours worked. The 
recordable rate is a regulatory term 
indicating accidents of a severity 
beyond first aid which must be 
recorded and reported. Both declining 
DART and recordable rates are 
favorable and indicate that our workers 
are experiencing fewer accidents per 
time on the job.   The most common 
employee injuries recorded during 
2018 include low severity incidents 
such as muscle sprains and strains, and 
contact with moving or falling objects.  
Additionally, there have been zero 
fatalities and zero contractor injuries  
in 2018.
As noted in the charts, our DART 
and recordable rates, and associated 
accidents for our global operations, 
continue a favorable downward 
trend and remain well below the 
relevant industry benchmark (BM 
Manufacturing). Over the last six years, 
we have reduced the accident rate by 
half during a time of significant growth 
for the Company.   
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics defines Benchmark Manufacturing as: food; beverage and tobacco product; textile mills; 
textile product mills; apparel; leather and applied product; wood product; paper; printing and related support activities; 
petroleum and coal products; chemical; plastics and rubber products; nonmetallic mineral product; primary metal; fabricated 
metal product; machinery; computer and electronic product; electrical equipment, appliance, and component; transportation 
equipment; furniture and related product; miscellaneous.  
EMPLOYEES  
& 
COMMUNITIES
6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0.0
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
 DART Rate Global 1.7 1.6 1.2 1.3 1.1 0.9 0.8
  DART Rate USA 1.6 1.7 1.2 1.2 1.1 0.9 0.8
 BM Manufacturing 2.3 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.1 2.12016 2017 2018
 Recordable Rate Global 2.1 1.8 1.5
  Recordable Rate USA 2.3 2.0 1.6
 BM Manufacturing 3.6 3.6 3.6
CHURCH & DWIGHT DART RATE
BENCHMARK MANUFACTURINGBENCHMARK MANUFACTURINGCHURCH & DWIGHT RECORDABLE RATE47
* Note: three citations have been contested and settlement anticipated in 2019. Workplace Safety Training
We provide a comprehensive program for employees, including training in safe work practices.  
We believe that training in all aspects of workplace safety is a priority and a key component of 
the company’s program to prevent accidents and ill health.  Training includes chemical awareness, 
personal protective equipment, safe machine operation and many other important topics.
Workplace Safety Audits  
Through our corporate safety department, we implement a safety auditing program for adherence 
to local, state, federal and country specific safety standards and regulations. These audits 
are conducted annually for global operations by third-party consultants enforcing a rigorous 
assessment of regulatory standards, internal procedures and program performance.  Audit 
assessments and inspections are scored and are currently indicating high levels of compliance in 
our operations.  The auditing program confirms the Company’s commitment to best management 
practices and principles.   We continually increase the rigor and level of scrutiny of the safety 
auditing process to drive continuous improvement in our operations.
Safety-Related Regulatory Action 
Like all other companies, Church & Dwight is subject to regulatory inspection and review.  In 2018, 
we received a total of 15 regulatory inquiries (letters, phone calls, planned and unplanned visits) 
to its global operations sites.  From these 15 regulatory inquiries, a total of 7 regulatory violations/
findings were issued.We also recognize the following Church & Dwight 
facilities for their outstanding efforts in safety, 
incurring zero DART injuries in 2018
Madera, California
Mason City, Iowa
Princeton, New Jersey
Oskaloosa, Iowa
Waukesha, WisconsinMexico City, Mexico
New Plymouth, New Zealand
Frenchs Forest, Australia
Guangzhou, China
Inquiries / Inspections Citations Penalties
15 7* $6,860*THE GREEN RIVER  
WORKFORCE REACHED
WITHOUT A  
LOST TIME  
ACCIDENTONE MILLION  
HOURS  48
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING
COMMITTED TO IMPROVING OUR 
SUPPLIERS’ ENVIRONMENTAL, 
LABOR, HEAL TH & SAFETY AND  
ETHICAL PRACTICES
 Achieve at least 90% participation in our Responsible Sourcing 
Program by targeted high risk supplies by the end of 2019.
 Source 100% of palm oil-based ingredients on a certified sustainable 
basis, primarily through Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) 
credits and partially through mass balance credits in 2019.  Source 
100% through mass balance credits by 2025.
 Achieve 97% traceability to the mill level for all our palm oil-based 
ingredients by 2020.
Colonial Heights, Virginia49
We are committed to managing our operations in a 
responsible and sustainable manner by upholding high 
ethical standards, continually evaluating our environmental 
impact, creating a safe workplace, and vigilantly 
maintaining our commitment to responsible sourcing. We 
have held our position as a trusted provider of household, 
personal care, and specialty products for over 170 years.   
Our supply chain is a significant part of our business, and more than half 
of our employees support its day-to-day operations.  We directly source 
from numerous suppliers, the majority of which are located in North America. All of our 
employees and suppliers are expected to comply with our Global Operations Guiding 
Principles (Principles), which are based on internationally recognized human rights and labor 
standards, including the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights, the International Labor 
Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the Labor 
Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. The Principles are also substantially aligned 
with the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code and the California Transparency in Supply Chains 
Act of 2010, which requires manufacturers doing business in California to disclose their efforts 
to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their direct supply chains.   These Principles 
are included or incorporated into our supplier agreements.  They apply to our employees and 
suppliers and are available under the “Corporate Governance” heading on the Investors page 
of our website at www.churchdwight.com.
In 2018, we completed the first full year of a Responsible Sourcing Program that reflects our 
commitment to internationally recognized industry standards, while remaining commercially 
reasonable in our approach as we gather and analyse data relating to our suppliers’ practices. 
We engaged independent social audit firms to audit 42 (35%) of our higher potential risk raw 
material and component suppliers and contract manufacturers to ensure their compliance 
with our Principles that represented 95% participation by our targeted highest risk suppliers. 
We also conducted risk-based supplier audits against ISO Quality Standards and Food Safety 
Standards. Audits are conducted by our Quality Department and supplemented, as needed, 
by independent third parties.
Suppliers found to be in violation of our Principles are subject to corrective actions which 
may include follow up audits and termination of business. We have a training program for 
applicable employees and management re-enforcing the Principles.  This new program 
supplements our Code of Conduct training that applies to all employees and directors, and 
that requires compliance with applicable laws, including those prohibiting slavery and human 
trafficking.  Any violation of applicable laws, our Code of Conduct or our Principles by a 
Church & Dwight employee or supplier may result in disciplinary action, including termination 
of employment or business relationship.50
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING
Responsible Sourcing - Palm Oil 
While Church & Dwight does not directly buy or use palm oil or palm kernel oil in our products, 
some of our products – including animal feed, liquid laundry detergents, gummy vitamins, 
oral care and feminine care products – include palm oil derivatives. We recognize the palm 
oil industry has a significant impact on biodiversity, climate change, people and communities.  
Accordingly, we strive to responsibly source palm oil derivatives in a manner which does 
not contribute to deforestation of high conservation value and high carbon stock forest and 
peatlands, or exploitation of people and local communities. In 2018, we joined the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and purchased 100% certified sustainable (CSPO) palm oil-based 
ingredients, including fractions and derivatives, through the RSPO Credit supply chain.
Folkestone, United Kingdom
Old Fort, Ohio
Although our use of palm oil derivatives 
is relatively low, we are committed to 
responsibly sourcing palm oil ingredients.    
In 2018, we purchased virtually all of our 
approximately 46,000 tons of palm oil derivatives 
from one supplier, who is a member of the 
RSPO.  As of December 31, 2018, approximately 
96% of our palm oil derivative volume received 
from that supplier was independently verified 
as traceable back to the mills according to our 
primary supplier’s supply chain mapping.  That 
supplier has also represented to us that all such 
palm oil derivatives have been produced in 
conformance with its “No Deforestation, No Peat, 
No Exploitation Policy.” Based on our primary 
supplier’s commitments, we expect to trace 97% 
of the  palm oil derivative volume purchased by us 
to the mills by 2020.51
CONFLICT MINERALS
We are committed to ensuring that our products do not 
contain conflict minerals that have funded armed groups 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining 
country. Any supplier found to be in violation of our 
policies is subject to corrective action which may include 
termination of business.Ending our contributions to deforestation by conserving and protecting primary and secondary 
forests, High Carbon Stock1 and High Conservation Value2 forests across all supplier landholdings.
Ending new development on peatlands, regardless of depth.
Leveraging best management practices3 for existing palm oil plantations on peat soils.
Prohibiting the use of fire for preparation or clearing of land areas.
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and existing operations.  
Complying with existing RSPO Principles and Criteria or other equivalent standards.
Ending any exploitation of the rights of indigenous peoples and local communities.
1. High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests as defined at http://highcarbonstock.org by the HCS Steering Group
2. High Conservation Value (HCV) as defined by the HCV network: https://www.hcvnetwork.org/how-it-works/. 
3. Best management practices covered by the “RSPO Manual on Best Management Practices (BMPs) for existing oil palm cultivation on peat.”Due to the complexity of the palm oil derivative supply chain, the process of achieving 
traceability involves a number of companies at many tiers. Because our greatest opportunity 
to influence the supply chain is through our partnerships with our suppliers, our objective of 
increasing to 97% traceability to the mills by 2020 is subject to change based on the progress 
of our suppliers.  In addition to full traceability to mills, we support and encourage suppliers to 
achieve as much traceability to the plantations as possible and to comply with RSPO standards 
as they evolve.
Beyond traceability, our more comprehensive Palm Oil Sustainable Sourcing Commitment  
expands the scope of our responsibility to help address the following specific sourcing practices: 
To accomplish these goals, we will require our primary supplier to meet or exceed the standards 
set forth in its No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation Policy, provide quarterly reports 
regarding its supply chain mapping, provide progress reports against the commitments set 
forth in its policy, and meet or exceed RSPO standards for RSPO certification. In addition, we 
periodically investigate other tools and approaches to further our assessment. 52
ENVIRONMENT
MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT OF OUR  
GLOBAL OPERATIONS
 Achieve carbon neutral status for our global operations by end  
of 2025. 
 
 Reduce global process water and/or wastewater by 25% by 2022  
using 2016 as baseline.
 
 Achieve global operations solid waste recycling rate  
of 75% by 2020.53
Managing for Environmental Sustainability 
and Safety
It is essential for us to make great products and to produce them in 
facilities with robust environmental, health and safety performance.  
We work toward this high-performance culture by adhering to well 
established principles defined in the company environmental and 
safety policies. These policies guide our environmental and safety 
practices and expectations, and they are implemented through the 
following approach:
Accountability Each of our facilities has a designated on-site environmental and 
safety coordinator responsible for monitoring and managing environmental and 
safety issues affecting their facility. These coordinators are closely networked to 
enable peer mentorship and best practice sharing across facilities.
Audits and Inspections Each of our facilities undergoes a third-party conducted 
safety audit each year, and a third-party conducted environmental audit every other 
year. All facilities are subject to periodic, unannounced inspections by federal, state 
and local environmental and safety agencies.
Awareness We offer regular training for all our manufacturing employees to promote 
awareness of environmental and safety practices and procedures. This includes an 
annual Environmental and Safety Conference for facility environmental and  
safety coordinators. 
Awards each year we recognized one of our global operations for exemplary 
environmental safety and sustainability performance. An award is presented to a 
representative of the operation at a Town Hall event in Princeton, New Jersey. 
Folkestone, United Kingdom54
Environmental Performance
Our growing business provides the challenge of managing its environmental 
footprint and minimizing impacts of our expanding operations. We rely upon 
our employees’ strong implementation of our environmental and sustainability 
initiatives to achieve our performance goals.  We regularly evaluate our 
primary impact metrics (regulatory compliance, energy use, water use and 
waste generation) and take necessary actions across the company to optimize 
our operations.ENVIRONMENT
2018 Citations & Penalties/Surcharges
All facilities undergo periodic, unannounced inspections by federal, state, and local 
environmental agencies. In 2018, there were 21 such inspections conducted at our 
operations, which resulted in five minor citations. The citations were for a combination 
of administrative or record keeping issues, or wastewater discharge permit excursions. 
Corrective actions were immediately implemented for all instances. No penalties were 
issued for any of these citations received. 
We also received one citation due to self-disclosed non-compliance identified during an 
air emissions stack test at our Green River, WY plant. Church & Dwight received a notice 
of violation when the stack test detected particulate emissions above the permit limit.  
Corrective actions included detailed assessment and upgrades to the control device 
which brought the facility back into compliance. A penalty of $22,500 was assessed 
and paid by Church & Dwight. In addition a supplemental environmental improvement 
project and will be implemented in 2019 upon final approval by the regulatory agency.  
Media Total PenaltiesCitations-
Inspections 
RelatedCitations-Self 
Reported
Wastewater $0 4 0
Air $22,500 0 1
Emergency Response $0 1 0
Spills / Releases to the Environment
We monitor and report on spills and releases to the environment. This includes our Colonial 
Heights, VA plant, which, as a result of the manufacturing process, releases ammonia to the 
atmosphere on a consistent basis each year and in compliance with air pollution  
control regulations. 
We had two reportable accidental releases in 2018. One release was the result of a puncture 
of a 250-gallon intermediate bulk container of a non-hazardous material during unloading. 
The spill was contained in the parking lot, remediated and local response authorities  
were notified. Citations55
A second release occurred after a transfer pump within a containment area malfunctioned 
resulting in an overflow of non-hazardous wastewater.  Response actions included 
installation of additional overflow alarms and monitoring, as well as assessment of potential 
soil and groundwater impacts. 
The above releases were promptly reported to the appropriate environmental regulatory 
authority. Immediate response and clean up actions were taken, and corrective measures 
were designed and put in place to prevent such releases in the future. No immediate 
adverse impacts to public health or the environment have occurred due to the releases.  
Less than $10,000 total direct response and corrective action costs were incurred because 
of the releases.
Remediation
In 2018, there was limited activity regarding environmental remediation Company wide, 
with the most significant activity occurring with the closure and remediation activity at the 
Company’s wholly owned Brazil subsidiary Química Geral do Nordeste Ltd. (QGN).  The 
closure and remediation activities are summarized below. 
QGN, Feira de Santana, Brazil 
There are ongoing remediation efforts at the closed facility of QGN in Brazil. The 
remediation efforts include the control and capture of contaminated groundwater through 
an interceptor trench drainage system, as well as the installation of additional monitoring 
wells for the site characterization. Total spend in 2018 was approximately $100,000.   
QGN, Itapura, Brazil 
The mining operations that supported the inorganic salt 
manufacturing operation for QGN are undergoing closure activity. 
The remediation efforts in 2018 were primarily the re-vegetation 
of the slopes of the mine surfaces. Total spend in 2018 was 
approximately $50,000.
56
In 2017, we established new environmental goals with 
respect to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water 
reductions and solid waste recycling.  Our GHG goal is 
to be carbon neutral by the end of 2025 and strive to  
achieve this with the following strategy:     ENVIRONMENT
 Reduce:  Our overall consumption of 
energy from our operations and 
transportation while growing as a 
company.
 Recycle:  Continue the successful recycling 
efforts at all operations.
 Renew:  Support the generation of clean  
green energy.  
 Replenish:  Partner with organizations, such as 
the Arbor Day Foundation, to offset 
our GHG emissions.
Reduce
During 2018, we continued to assess our facilities for 
opportunities to reduce impacts to the environment 
through reductions in energy usage, water usage and 
waste generation.  As a growing company, our absolute 
values in terms of total energy, total water and total waste 
would be expected to increase. But in 2018 we reduced our 
overall impact and worked towards our stated goal through 
improved energy monitoring, LED lighting, conversions, 
boiler and steam efficiency improvements, line efficiency 
assessments and modifications to increase yield and 
decrease waste, adding product recovery loops, changing 
waste handling and treatment procedures and elimination of 
once-through cooling water uses.   
57
Recycle 
We have a very robust recycling program across our global operations.  
In 2018 we recycled 11,349 tons  (22,698,000, lbs) of waste that 
would have been destined for disposal facilities, such as, landfills. 
We recycled approximately 63% of the solid waste generated by our 
global operations, excluding chemical or hazardous wastes. Despite 
the challenging recycling market in 2018, our paper/cardboard 
recycling volume was up 4% and our plastic recycling volume was 
up 10%. In 2018, the annual environmental benefits from the paper/
cardboard recycling efforts alone saved:    
125,000 mature trees
52 million gallons of water
22,000 cubic yards of landfill space
31 million kilowatts of energy
Renew
In 2016, we entered agreements to support and purchase electricity sourced 
from sustainable sources, primarily wind energy, for approximately 50% of our 
anticipated 2017 U.S. electricity usage. Green energy reduces carbon dioxide 
emissions by promoting electricity generation from renewable resources instead 
of conventional fuels. Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) for primarily wind energy 
are acquired directly from the energy companies servicing our locations, or from 
third party energy brokers. In 2018, we continued our commitment to offset 100% 
of global electricity for company operations by purchasing power from sustainable 
sources. We will monitor our electricity use on an annual basis and secure forward 
looking RECs to offset our anticipated tons of CO2e for the following year.
These efforts and policies do not go unnoticed. We were recognized in 2018 for 
EPA green power leadership, and we were ranked no. 66 on the EPA’s national top 
100 list of green power users.   
Welcome to the Green Power Partnership!  
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
applauds Church & Dwight Co., Inc. for choosing to 
use green power. By switching to renewable, zero-
emissions electricity, your organization is reducing its 
carbon footprint, supporting the deployment of cleaner 
energy alternatives, and demonstrating to peers and 
stakeholders that green power is a key component of 
best practice environmental management.58
In 2018, our Corporate Office in Ewing, 
NJ earned the U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR® 
certification for superior energy performance. 
ENERGY STAR certified buildings and plants 
are verified to perform in the top 25% of 
buildings nationwide, based on weather-
normalized source energy use that takes into 
account occupancy, hours of operation, and 
other key metrics. ENERGY STAR is the only 
energy efficiency certification in the United 
States that is based on actual, verified energy 
performance.  On average, ENERGY STAR 
certified buildings and plants use 35% less 
energy, cause 35% fewer greenhouse gas 
emissions, and are less expensive to operate 
than their peers—all without sacrifices in 
performance or comfort.ENVIRONMENT
Replenish
In 2016, we partnered with The Arbor Day 
Foundation to offset carbon dioxide emissions 
through the planting of trees and protecting 
existing forests. Our partnership offsets the carbon 
dioxide emissions generated from the use of fossil 
fuels (primarily natural gas) from our operations.  
In 2018, we increased our commitment to the 
Partnership for verifiable emissions reduction 
credits to now offset greater than 50% of our  
total defined carbon dioxide emissions. We  
continue to increase our partnership with  
The Arbor Day Foundation.
59
Founded in 1972, the Arbor Day Foundation has grown to become the largest nonprofit 
membership organization dedicated to planting trees, with more than one million members, 
supporters and partners. “During the last 47 years more than 300 million Arbor Day 
Foundation trees have been planted in neighborhoods, communities, cities, and forests 
throughout the world. With a mission of inspiring people to plant, nurture, and celebrate trees, 
the Foundation is a recognized worldwide leader in creating an understanding that trees are a 
solution to many of the global issues we face today including:
“In partnership with Church & Dwight, the Arbor Day Foundation is working with public and 
private partners throughout the southeastern United States. One of the most critical wetland 
resources in North America, the Mississippi River Valley, is a vital habitat for migratory birds 
and numerous plant and animal species. This ongoing partnership is a direct connection to 
Church & Dwight’s foundational values toward conservation. For the third consecutive year, 
Church & Dwight has acquired forest carbon credits toward our carbon reduction goals. In 
total, over 144,000 tons of carbon has been sequestered through their support of forests – the 
estimated equivalency of removing 31,000 cars from the road.” – Dan Lambe, PresidentImprove  
air qualityEnsure  
water  
qualitySlow  
climate 
changeCombat 
deforestationFeed the 
human  
soulPrevent 
species  
lossEase  
poverty and 
hunger60
ENVIRONMENTEnergy 
Our total energy consumption associated with manufacturing (in gigajoules) 
was basically neutral in 2018 as compared to 2017. Decreases in electricity 
and purchased steam offset slight increases in natural gas and petroleum 
distillate fuels.  A 6.6% decrease in tons of purchased steam and a 2.5% 
decrease in KWH of electricity use held overall energy usage flat against a 
5% increase in cubic feet of natural gas. Implementation of several energy 
reduction projects has enabled us to minimize increases in our absolute 
natural gas and electricity use.  Electricity usage and purchased steam, 
normalized to millions of pounds of product shipped, were both down by 
approximately 6% and 10% respectively, while normalized natural gas/propane 
usage was up 1%, compared to 2017. Normalized total energy (GJ/MM lb 
shipped) was also down, approximately 3%. 
2016348
320
311360
350
340
2017 2018330
320
310
300Normalized Energy Usage
(Gigajoules Energy/MM lb shipped)
Improved Lighting in France  
Our Revel, France distribution facility implemented an LED project for the warehouse to improve lighting 
conditions and conserve energy.
Electricity Monitoring in the UK  
Our Folkestone, UK plant implemented an electricity monitoring project. The project yielded a number of 
efforts, including de-powering equipment when not in use, air compressor maintenance and upgrade program, 
and a lighting and energy awareness campaign that contributed to a 3 million KWH reduction in electricity use 
in 2018.  Sub-metering continues to identify opportunities for savings. 
Boiler Management in Washington  
Our Vancouver, WA plant implemented a boiler management/steam trap upgrade project that contributed to  
a savings of 3.5 million cubic feet of natural gas. 
Motion Sensors in Wyoming  
Our Green River, WY plant installed LED lighting and motion sensors throughout the site warehouses.  This 
project contributed to a 7% reduction in plant electricity usage in 2018.
Process Modification in Iowa  
Our Oskaloosa, IA plant implemented a process modification to replace a baghouse with a cyclone. The 
change improved the drying efficiency allowing a reduction in process operating temperature, which 
contributed to an 8% reduction in plant natural gas use in 2018.Implementation of several 
energy reduction projects 
has enabled us to to 
minimize increases in our 
absolute natural gas and 
electricity use. These global 
efforts help to curb energy 
usage while continuing to 
grow are truly global in scale, 
and exemplify the incredible 
commitment of Church & 
Dwight across its facilities as 
highlighted below:61
Greenhouse Gases
GHG emissions are associated with all aspects of our supply chain and product use. Raw material 
production, transportation to point of manufacture, product manufacture, product distribution 
and product use all have an impact.  We define our GHG scope to emissions over which we have 
a direct control. This includes Scope 1 direct emissions from Church & Dwight operated facilities, 
Scope 2 indirect emissions from Church & Dwight operated facilities (primarily electric and steam 
purchases), and Scope 3 emissions associated with transport of our finished products to our first 
point of customer contact (in US and Canada) and corporate business air travel.  Other Scope 
3 emissions related to supply chain, including product transport to customers outside the US or 
Canada and WATERPIK operations are not currently monitored or measured for this report due to 
the absence of reliable processes or reliable data for operations outside our direct control. We will 
continue to evaluate options to monitor and measure other Scope 3 aspects of our supply chain 
and consider how they might be included in the future.
Our absolute GHG emissions were up approximately 4.5% in 2018 over 2017 but global GHG 
emissions from manufacturing operations were down 1% in 2018 versus 2017. 
However, global GHG emissions associated with shipping operations rose nearly 9.7%.  This is due 
directly to an increased number of intermodal shipments (up by nearly 12%), increased number 
of truck shipments (up by 6%)  with a corresponding net increase in pounds shipped and miles 
driven.  Normalized total GHG emissions to million pounds of product shipped was essentially flat.  
The chart below provides the net and normalized GHG emissions. 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG)*
* Note that the above GHG figures have been adjusted compared to previously reported figures to align 
with CDP GHG calculation factors and to address corrected errors in 2015 and 2016. The 2016 & 2017 GHG 
calculation reflect the use of the USEPA 2016 eGrid factors as well as revised calculation to reflect short-
ton mile factors for Intermodal shipments.Media 2016 2017 2018
GHG Emissions-Manufacturing 
Operations (MT CO2e) (Scopes 1 & 2)174,468 169,704 168,232
GHG Emissions-Transportation 
Operations (MT CO2e) (Scope 3)187,424 176,336 193,387
GHG Emissions - Combined 
Operations  (MT of CO2e)361,892 346,041 361,618
GHG Intensity (MT of CO2e/MM 
pounds of product shipped)71 65 65
62
Church & Dwight has established a goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2025.  
Carbon emission associated with electricity use are currently 100% offset by RECs, 
while our other Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions are partially offset by certified 
forestry credits through the Arbor Day Foundation.  Our 2018 goal was to keep 
manufacturing operations carbon neutral compared to 2017 to minimize the offsets 
required. We achieved this goal in our manufacturing operation through various 
energy reduction programs and projects.  Additional work is needed to achieve 
reductions in our transportation operation emissions.  In 2018 through electric power 
RECs and certified carbon forestry credits, we offset a total of 81% of our defined 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (35% of our combined Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 
GHG emissions).ENVIRONMENT
For the 2018 energy and GHG data, we contracted with an independent 
third party, ERM CVS, to provide limited assurance on the accuracy and 
completeness of data. You can find the assurance statement describing 
their scope and their conclusions on page 76 of this report.  
In addition to GHG emissions, some of our facilities report on specific air emissions as required by a facility 
air permit. The chart below represents the breakdown of Criteria Air Pollutant emissions as defined by the 
USEPA for those facilities that are required to report air emissions.  In 2018, our total air emissions of criteria 
pollutants was less than 500 tons with approximately 68% being particulates.   
2018 Criteria Air Pollutant Emissions (by percent)
1.79%
15.07%6.68%
7.98%
0.17%
68.21%
Carbon monoxide NOx SOx Particulate (PM-10) Ozone (VOC) HAP63
Water
Water conservation and management is a particularly high priority for us because water is a 
significant ingredient in several of our products. The majority of our water use is as a product 
ingredient. A portion of our water is also used for cooling, cleaning, or other process operations 
and then returned to the environment. A small percentage of the water is attributed to personal 
consumption and sanitary use.
None of our facilities are in extremely high overall water-stressed areas as identified by the World 
Resources Institute (WRI). Only two of our facilities are classified as high risk areas. The WRI water 
risk evaluation identifies areas with higher exposure to water related risks, and is an aggregated 
measure of all selected indicators from the physical quantity, quality and regulatory & reputational 
risk categories.  We periodically assess our water risk through public water and ground water supply 
assessments, primarily focused on our high volume or critical water quality locations. 
Water optimization projects implemented in 2017 showed benefits in 2018.  During 2018, our 
operations required nearly 507 million gallons of water intake. Approximately 84% of water intake 
is from public water supply systems. The remaining 16% is from groundwater wells at our facilities. 
Total water intake was down approximately 2.8% in 2018, while net consumption increased 2%.  
We define net water consumption as:  
Net Consumption(gal) =  
Total Water intake(gal) – Total Water discharges/disposals (gal)
Net water discharged was reduced by approximately 20 million gallons compared to 2017. We are 
committed to reducing water use and wastewater discharges by 25% by 2022 compared to our 
2016 baseline. In 2018 we discharged 213 million gallons or a net reduction of 2%. 
We continue efforts to identify and implement specific projects related to water conservation. 
Projects include eliminating single pass through cooling uses, optimizing water reclaim/recycling 
systems, minimizing evaporative losses and improving efficiency in our water handling and treatment 
equipment, especially at our most water intensive plants.  In 2018, we were able to reduce our total 
intake of water, while at the same time reduce our discharge of water, for a reduction of almost 33 
million gallons versus 2017.    Total Water (millions of gallons)
550
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100Total Water  
Intake (gal)
Total  
Discharged  
(gal)Net 
Consumption  
(gal)
2016 2017 2018499.1
282.4
216.7520.9
288.4
232.5506.6
293.9
212.664
Normalized Water Use
(Thousand gallon/MM lb shipped)
150
100
50
0
Intake/MM lb 
shippedConsumed/MM lb  
shipped2016 2017 201854
535598 97
91
Several of our facilities made notable progress towards 
our water management goals.   
Gold Award in Colonial Heights, Virginia  
The Colonial Heights facility received the Gold Award from Chesterfield County for zero discharge 
violations or warnings during the 2017-2018 monitoring periods. This is the 3rd consecutive  
Gold Award received by the Colonial Heights facility from Chesterfield County Utilities Department. 
A Chilled Water Loop in Lakewood, New Jersey  
Our Lakewood, NJ plant installed a chilled water loop to provide cooling water to process equipment, 
replacing a once through cooling system.  The process change eliminated a permitted discharge at the 
facility and saves approximately 15 million gallons of water per year. 
Collaborating to Reduce Wastewater in York, Pennsylvania  
Our York, PA plant executed a Kaizen event to explore targeted reductions of Laundry Detergent 
Process Wastewater.  The event focused on standardizing CIP processes, identifying all sources 
of wastewater generation and creation of a more robust monitoring/tracking systems.  Resulting 
improvements have reduced the amount of wastewater by about 6,000 gallons/month. 
Steam Trap/Boiler Management Upgrade in Vancouver, Washington  
Our Vancouver, WA plant implemented a steam trap/ boiler management upgrade that  
resulted in an estimated 2 million gallons of water saved per year.  
ENVIRONMENT65
Approximately 98% of our wastewater is discharged to local municipal wastewater treatment plants, 
transported off site for appropriate disposal, or treated onsite prior to discharge.  The remaining 2% 
is direct discharge of non-contact cooling water or clean fire control system water. Our discharges do 
not significantly affect water quality in any receiving water bodies.
Wastewater Disposition
57.65%22.98%
0.84%
1.29%
1.51%
15.73%Sewer (POTW)
Direct Surface 
w/ TreatmentDirect Surface 
w/o Treatment
Direct Ground 
w/ TreatmentDirect Ground 
w/o Treatment
Other (hauled for 
offsite disposal)
Waste
In 2018, our total waste generation increased by 2% over the prior year. Reductions in general trash, 
offsite wastewater disposal and total recycle volume were offset by increases in non-hazardous process 
wastes and hazardous waste, for a net increase of approximately 1,200 tons.  Wastewater transported 
offsite, which cannot be sent to a public treatment works at the manufacturing facility, represents the 
largest percentage of the waste by weight, at 44%.  Non-hazardous process waste represented the 
largest increase contributing to our net waste increase in 2018.
Total recycle weight in 2018 was flat (up <1%) due to less wood (pallet) recycling and steel 
(construction) recycling.  However, our primary recycling streams – paper/cardboard and plastic 
recycling – were up by 4% and 10%, respectively.  
Hazardous waste generation increased in 2018 by 9%, but represents less than 1.5% of all waste 
generated. Most of our facilities are considered small quantity generators of hazardous waste. No 
hazardous wastes are treated onsite or exported.  All hazardous wastes are transported offsite 
by properly licensed vendors to appropriate treatment storage or disposal sites. All solid waste is 
transported offsite and properly disposed at licensed facilities, except for our facility in Wyoming, which 
maintains an onsite non-hazardous waste landfill. Church & Dwight has no international shipments of 
hazardous or non-hazardous wastes.  66
ENVIRONMENT
The following charts provide a comparison of the 
offsite waste disposal methods utilized in 2018, and 
net and normalized waste generation quantities for 
the last three years.
2018 Waste Disposal Methods
WW Treatment
Recycle/ReuseRecovery
CompostIncineration
Landfill
44%19%0.10%
5%
1%
30%
Normalized Waste Generation
(Tons/MM lb shipped)
Total Waste Non-hazardous 
Solid WasteWW Hauled
OffsiteRecycle Hazardous Waste14 
12 
10 
8 
6 
4 
2 
011.8711.36 11.16
2.691.97 2.385.39 5.55 5.31
2.42 2.14 2.08
0.15 0.15 0.16
2016 2017 201867
We have a recycling goal of 75% for our combined recycle and general trash 
waste streams and in 2018 we achieved a 63% recycle rate.  As with energy and water, 
we are continuously exploring ways to reduce waste as we increase production. Our manufacturing 
facilities develop a specific, targeted waste minimization effort, and results are reported into company 
management. While these efforts are not always successful, the net results are reflected in the reduced 
general trash and hauled wastewater totals in 2018. 
Some examples of waste minimization projects implemented in 
2018 include:
We will continue to look for opportunities to apply these and 
other promising programs across the company. New Processes in Colonial Heights, Virginia  
Our plant developed a process to recycle and re-qualify a corn starch slurry that has reduced 
the corn starch demand by 12% per unit production in 2018, and helped reduce end of process 
wastewater sludge by over 100 tons. 
Plastic Grinders and New Reclaim Processes in Harrisonville, Missouri  
In partnership with a recycling vendor, our Harrisonville plant installed plastic grinders to improve the 
value of the recyclables and the overall recycling process. Not only was plastic recycling increased 
by 10 tons, but due to the quality of the recycle material, the plant was able to maintain most of the 
rebate income at a time when cost per ton plastic recycle is declining.
The Harrisonville plant also installed a reclaim process for a powdered detergent production that 
enables the plant to reclaim part of our waste powder back into the process and avoid disposal. 
Powder waste was reduced by 31%.
Recovery and Separation in Old Fort, Ohio  
Our plant in Old Fort focused on improving practices around recovery and separation, resulting in a 
10% increase in cardboard recycling volumes 
A New Reuse Program in York, Pennsylvania  
In York, our plant evaluated a beneficial reuse program of waste gummy vitamins.  The program was 
successful, and if fully implemented, would divert the entire waste steam from landfill and dedicate it 
to recycle/reuse.
Eliminating Plastic in Australia  
In collaboration with our distribution partners, our Australia distribution team transitioned 15 personal 
care skus to eliminate plastic from the shelf ready trays. The plastic was replaced by recycled cardboard, 
which is also more easily recycled at end of use.
New Work Practices in Folkestone, United Kingdom  
Our plant in Folkestone implemented work practice changes that reduced aerosol line waste by 30% 
and liquid soap product line waste by 50%. 68
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA 
Indicator                                                                                     Unit  2018 2017                  2016
ENVIRONMENTAL
Total Energy Use Thousand GJ 1,725 1,780                 1,777
Gas (Natural Gas + Propane) Thousand Cubic Feet 829,802 788,844 806,090
Electricity Thousand kWh 161,261 165,340 164,047
Fuel Oil/Gasoline Gallons 97,248 91,191 83,195
Purchased Steam Tons 84,493 90,462 112,250
Normalized Energy Use GJ/MM LBS SHP 310.7 319.7 347.9
Combined (Process and Transport) CO2e  Metric Tons 361,618 346,041  361,892
Process  CO2e  Metric Tons 168,232 169,704 174,468
Transport CO2e  Metric Tons 193,387 176,336 187,424
Normalized Combined CO2e    Metric Tons CO2e /MM LBS SHP 65 65 71
Global Net Water Use Thousand Gallons 293,926 288,416 282,443
Global Water Input Thousand Gallons  506,564 520,888 499,141
Global Water Effluent Thousand Gallons 212,638 232,472 216,698
Normalized Global Water Use Thousand Gallons/MM LBS SHP 91.3 97.5 97.7
Total Waste Produced Tons 61,960 60,695 60,617
Hazardous Waste Produced Tons 908 828 746
Non-hazardous Solid Waste Produced Tons 20,012 18,775 20,015
Wastewater Trucked for Offsite Disposal Tons 29,475 29,672 27,513
Non-hazardous Waste Recycled Tons 11,349 11,480 12,346
Normalized Waste Produced Tons/MM LBS SHP 11.2 11.4 11.9
Environmental Penalties Total $22,500 $0 $22,032
Total Reported Releases Total 3 5 4
Accidental Releases Total 2 4 3
Continuous Releases Total 1 1 169
Indicator Unit 2018 2017 2016
SOCIAL
Total Employees Total 4,727 4,707 4,485
Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Total 3,766 3,777 3,503
Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) Total 961 930 982
Total Female Employees Percent 41 40 39
Female Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Percent 39 38 38
Female Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) Percent 48 47 46
Total Male Employees Percent 59 60 61
Male Employees – Domestic (Within U.S.) Percent 61 62 62
Male Employees – International (Outside of U.S.) Percent 52 53 54
Non-binary Employees Total  1  Not Reported   Not Reported
Days Away, Restricted, or Recordable 0.8 0.9 1.1 
Transferred (DART) Rate (Global) Incidents/100 FTE
ECONOMIC
Net Sales  Billions $4.15 $3.78 $3.49
Consumer Domestic Sales Millions $3,129.9 $2,854.9 $2,677.8
Consumer International Sales Millions $709.5 $621.1 $525.2
Specialty Products Sales Millions $306.5 $300.2 290.1
Employee Giving Fund Distributions Millions $1.2 $1.2 $1.2
70
ABOUT THIS REPORT   
This 2018 Sustainability Report continues our commitment to transparently communicate our 
sustainability efforts. 
This Report reflects our performance for the year ended December 31, 2018, along with prior data and 
information on changes to our facilities, plants and data collection process, where relevant.  This Report 
also references 2019 initiatives planned at the time of publishing the report. 
To lead the collection of information and the report preparation process, we assembled a team 
representing Environmental, Health and Safety, Finance, Human Resources, Law, Marketing, Operations, 
Procurement and Research and Development. 
The report is closely aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Standards. 
We have addressed GRI’s four Reporting Principles in defining the scope and content of this 
Sustainability Report:
Stakeholder Inclusiveness – The report addresses those topics that are of greatest interest to a 
broad range of stakeholders.
Sustainability Context – We reference the key sustainability challenges that our company is 
facing, and how our actions and performance fit into the larger context; see for example our 
discussion of responsible sourcing and palm oil.
Materiality – The report covers our significant economic, environmental and social impacts.
Completeness – We provide information on our global operations, representing company-wide 
performance throughout 2018.
Employment and EHS indicators include all our manufacturing and distribution facilities, our R&D 
Corporate Technical Center and our corporate headquarters, with select smaller scale operations 
excluded. For more information on our company, joint ventures and subsidiaries worldwide, please see 
our 2018 Annual Report on the Church & Dwight website (see link below).
We welcome input from stakeholders, including customers, consumers, shareholders, nonprofit 
organizations, neighbors and employees, who seek to help us improve our business and sustainability 
performance. Please send questions or comments about this Report to sustainability@churchdwight.
com. For all other inquiries, please visit our website at http:/ /www.churchdwight.com.  
71
GRI INDEX   
We align our sustainability reporting with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, an 
internationally recognized guidance for transparency in sustainability performance.
The Index below lists the GRI indicators addressed in this Report, and either includes the information 
directly or provides a reference to the relevant section(s) within this Sustainability Report.
GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-1 Name of organization Church & Dwight Co, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services About Church & Dwight
102-3 Location of headquarters Ewing, New Jersey, US
102-4 Location of operations About Church & Dwight
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form About Church & Dwight
102-6 Markets served About Church & Dwight
102-7 Scale of the organization About Church & Dwight
102-8 Total workforce Sustainability Performance Data
102-9 Supply chain Responsible Sourcing
102-10 Significant changes to the organizations and 
its supply chainAbout Church & Dwight
102-11 Precautionary approach•Product Safety 
•Products
102-12 External initiatives•How do we engage stakeholders? 
•Responsible Sourcing
102-13 Membership in associations How do we engage stakeholders?
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter
102-16Values, principles, standards and norms of 
behavior•Sustainability Approach 
•How do we engage stakeholders 
•Responsible Sourcing
102-18 Governance structureSee the Corporate Governance section of our 
website
102-40 List of stakeholder groups•How do we engage stakeholders? 
•About This Report
102-42 Selection of stakeholders About This Report
102-43 Approach to engagement•How do we engage stakeholders? 
•About This Report
102-45 Entities included in the report About This Report
102-46 Defining report content•Sustainability Approach 
•About This Report
102-48 Restatements of information•Greenhouse Gases 
•Sustainability Performance Data
102-49 Significant changes in material topics and 
boundariesThere were no significant changes in the 
topics and boundaries of our reporting for 
2018.
102-50 Reporting period About This Report72
102-51 Date of previous reportOur previous report was published in 2018 and 
included performance data for calendar year 
2017.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point About This Report
102-54Claims of reporting in accordance with the 
GRI StandardsAbout This Report
102-55 GRI index GRI Index
102-56 External assurance Greenhouse Gases
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
201-1 Direct economic value•About Church & Dwight 
•Our Brands 
•Employee Giving Fund 
•Sustainability Performance Data
205-2 Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and proceduresResponsible Sourcing
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
301-2 Recycled input materials used Packaging
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization•Energy Use 
•Sustainability Performance Data
302-2Energy consumption outside of the 
organizationSustainability Performance Data
302-3 Energy intensity•Energy Use 
•Sustainability Performance Data
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Use
303-1 Total water withdrawal by source•Water 
•Sustainability Performance Data
303-2Water sources significantly affected by 
withdrawal of waterWater
305-1Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions•Greenhouse Gases 
•Sustainability Performance Data
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions•Greenhouse Gases 
•Sustainability Performance Data
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions•Greenhouse Gases 
•Sustainability Performance Dat 
305-4 GHG emissions intensity•Greenhouse Gases 
•Sustainability Performance Dat
305-5 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions•Energy Use 
•Greenhouse Gases
305-7 SOx, NOx, and other air emissions Greenhouse Gases
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination•Water 
•Sustainability Performance Data
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method•Waste 
•Sustainability Performance Data
306-3 Significant spills•Spills/Releases to the Environment 
•Sustainability Performance Data73
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste•Waste 
•Sustainability Performance Data
306-5Water bodies affected by water discharges 
and/or runoffWater
307-1 Environmental fines and sanctions Citations and Penalties/Surcharges
308-2Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions takenPalm Oil
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
403-1Workers representation in formal joint 
management-worker health and safety 
committeesEach of our facilities has a Safety Committee 
with management and worker representation.
403-2 Rates of injury•Workplace Safety 
•Sustainability Performance Data
403-3Workers with high incidence or high risk of 
diseases related to their occupationChurch & Dwight has no locations or types of 
workers that experience high incidence or risk 
of occupational diseases.
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programsTraining & Development
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development 
reviewsAll Church & Dwight employees receive an 
annual performance review.
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies 
or proceduresResponsible Sourcing
413-1 Community engagement•Our Brands 
•Community Support Beyond the Employee 
Giving Fund
414-1New suppliers that were screened using 
social criteriaResponsible Sourcing
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain Responsible Sourcing
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts 
of products and servicesProduct Safety
417-2Product and service information  
and labelingChurch & Dwight experienced no incidents of 
non-compliance with regulations or voluntary 
codes regarding product labeling in 2018.
417-3 Marketing communicationsChurch & Dwight experienced no incidents of 
non-compliance with regulations or voluntary 
codes regarding marketing communications in 
2018.74
SASB   
Starting with this 2018 Sustainability Report, we are referencing the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) industry-specific sustainability accounting standards covering potential 
financial material issues. The table below summarizes Church & Dwight’s disclosures related to the 
SASB indicators for the Household and Personal Care Products category.
Many of these issues have been included in our CDP responses and in previous years’ sustainability 
reports. The table below provides company-wide quantitative data where available, while also 
referencing the report sections where we address relevant sustainability topics. We are working to 
improve our systems to allow greater transparency around products and packaging data in the future.
Water Management
Metric/Unit of Measure Report Location
Total water withdrawn:  
Thousand cubic meters (m3)1,918 thousand cubic meters
Total water consumed: Percentage (%) 58.0%
Percentage of each in regions with High or 
Extremely High Baseline Water StressWater, pages 63-64
Description of water management risks and 
discussion of strategies and practices to 
mitigate those risksWater, pages 63-64
Product Environmental, Health, and Safety Performance
Revenue from products that contain REACH 
substances of very high concern (SVHC)$332 Million US Dollars
Revenue from products that contain  
substances on the California DTSC  
Candidate Chemicals ListWill be evaluated for future reporting
Revenue from products designed with green 
chemistry principles$2.1 million
Discussion of process to identify and manage 
emerging materials and chemicals of concernProduct Safety, page 20 
Products, pages 28-30
Packaging Lifecycle Management
Total weight of packaging: Metric tons Will be evaluated for future reporting
Percentage made from recycled and/or 
renewable materials:  Percent (%)Paperboard Sourcing, page 3575
Percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or 
compostable: Percent (%)Will be evaluated for future reporting
Discussion of strategies to reduce the 
environmental impact of packaging  
throughout its lifecyclePackaging, pages 32-35
1. Optimize Design for efficient packaging 
material use and efficient distribution
2. Use responsibly sourced materials and post-
consumer recycled materials where possible
3. Strive for Packaging Lifecycle Analysis 
improvement of key metrics
4. Simplify Packaging materials and use widely 
recycled materials in our packaging and support 
Consumer education programs
5. Design for refill and reuse within select 
business areas
Environmental & Social Impacts of Palm Oil Supply Chain
Amount of palm oil sourced: Metric tons 42,000 metric tons
Percentage certified through the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) supply chains as 
(a) Identity Preserved, (b) Segregated, (c) Mass 
Balance, or (d) Book & claim: Percent (%)100%
See also Palm Oil section, pages 50 - 52
Activity Metrics
Total weight of products sold: Metric tons 2.5 million metric tons
Number of manufacturing facilities 18
 
 Independent Assurance  Statement to Church and Dwight  Co., Inc
 
ERM C ertification and Verification Services (ERM CVS)  was engaged by Church and Dwight  to provide limited 
assurance on specified 201 8 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) data in its 2018  Sustainability Report as set out below.  
 
 
Engagement s ummary  
Scope  of our 
assurance 
engagement   Whether the corporate 2018  GHG data for the following selected indicators are fairly presented, in 
all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria:  
 Scope 1 GHG emissions in tonnes of CO 2e  
 Scope 2 GHG emissions (location -based) in tonnes of CO 2e  
 Scope 3 emissions  - transport of finished products to our f irst point of customer contact in 
US and Canada,  and to a distribution center in Mexico  in tonnes of CO 2e 
 Scope 3 emissions - corporate business air travel in tonnes of CO 2e  
Reporting c riteria   The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (GHG protocol).  
Assurance  
standard  ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on As surance 
Engagements  ISAE 3000 (Revised).  
Assurance level Limited  assurance .  
Respective 
responsibilities  Church and Dwight  is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in the 
Response  to third parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.   
ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope  based on the assurance 
activities performed a nd exercising our professional judgement .  
Our conclusions  
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to 
indicate that the corporate 2018 data for the selected GHG 
emissions as shown below and includ ed in the Church and 
Dwight 2018 Sustainability Report  are not fairly presented , in 
all material respects, with the reporting criteria.  
 
Scope 1 GHG emissions:  82,317  tCO 2e     
Scope 2 GHG (location -based) emissions: 85,914  tCO 2e 
Scope 3 GHG : Transport of finished products to f irst 
point of customer contact in US and Canada , and to a 
distribution center in Mexico : 188,076  tCO 2e 
Scope 3 GHG : Corporate business travel air emissions:   
5,310 tCO 2e  
 
Our assurance activities   
Our objective was to assess whether the assured emission 
data are reported in accordance with the principles of 
completeness, comparability (across the organisation) and 
accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate 
conversion factors and consolidat ion).  We planned and 
performed our work to obtain all the information and 
explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a 
basis for our assurance conclusions. We applied a 5% 
material error threshold.  
A multi -disciplinary team of EHS and assuran ce specialists 
performed the following activities:  
 Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate 
the data management systems and processes (including 
IT systems and internal review processes) used for 
collecting and reporting the selected data . 
 Visits to Church & Dwight’s  headquarters ( Ewing, New 
Jersey , USA) to review corporate reporting processes 
and consistency of reported annual data with selected 
underlying source data for each indicator. We  interviewed relevant staff, checked calculations and assessed the 
local internal quality and assurance processes.   
 Visits to Colonial Heights, VA  and Lakewood, NJ  sites to 
review local reporting processes and consistency of 
reported annual data with selected underlying source 
data for each indicator.  
 An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check 
on the completeness and accuracy of the corporate data 
consoli dation.  
 
The limitations of our engagement  
The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent 
uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, 
calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is 
important to understand our assur ance conclusions in this 
context.  
 
 
Jennifer Iansen -Rogers  
Head of Corporate Assurance Services   
2 May 2019  
 
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London  
www.ermcvs.com ; email : post@ermcvs.com  
 
                                   
 
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance a ctivities and auditor 
training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is fre e from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS 
staff that have undertaken  this engagement  work have provided  no consultancy related services to Church and Dwight  in any respect.  
2018
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT