TABLE OF  
CONTENTS  
2We began in 1846 as a baking soda business. T oday, we are a top-tier Consumer 
Products Company with a large portfolio of brands that consumers love, 
especially the ARM & HAMMER™ brand with products containing baking soda. 
We have a rich heritage of commitment to people and the planet. And there is 
overwhelming evidence that people and the planet need to be protected.  We 
have long regarded ourselves as a friend of the environment. Over 100 years 
ago, we began using recycled materials in our cartons. We were the first US 
manufacturer to remove phosphates from laundry detergent. We were the first 
and only corporate sponsor of the first Earth Day in 1970. T oday, the equivalent 
of 100% of our direct operations’ global electricity needs are offset with 
renewable sources. 
We take great pride in fostering an enduring culture of doing well by doing 
good. By focusing on making meaningful contributions to society, in addition 
to generating shareholder value, we create a stronger, more resilient company 
while contributing to a better world. 
Our corporate sustainability goals include improving the sustainability profile of 
our products (packaging and ingredients), positively impacting our employees 
and the communities where we operate, and reducing our environmental 
footprint. We are reducing our environmental footprint by increasing renewable 
energy usage, reducing water and greenhouse gas emissions, and reducing solid 
waste to landfill. 
Church & Dwighters are goal-oriented people. T o create a compass for our 
sustainability program, we have established aggressive goals for ourselves. Our 
top sustainability goal is to achieve carbon neutrality for our global operations by 
the end of 2025. T o achieve carbon neutrality, we have partnered with the Arbor 
Day Foundation to plant millions of trees in the Mississippi River Valley.  Trees 
remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and emit life-sustaining oxygen.  
We offset greater than 60% of the carbon dioxide that we emit today. We have 
a roadmap to meet our goals, and I’m pleased to report that we are well on our 
way. We added an At A Glance look at our 2019 sustainability efforts and how 
we are tracking against our sustainability goals. 
 In 2005, we established the Church & Dwight Employee 
Giving Fund, Inc. (EGF), an employee-run giving program 
that primarily supports charitable organizations in New 
Jersey and Eastern Pennsylvania. In partnership with 
the EGF, Church & Dwight matches employee donations 
dollar-for-dollar. In 2019, over $1.2 million and 
almost 1,500 hours of employee time was contributed to 184 local charitable 
organizations. The EGF is another example of how our employees engage in local 
causes in which they have a personal interest. T o date, the EGF has contributed 
nearly $13 million to local charitable organizations.
In this Report, we outline six pillars that are the core focus of our sustainability 
efforts.  In 2019, our continued progress earned recognition, including the 2019 
Barron’s Most Sustainable Companies list, the EPA’s Green Power Partnership 
T op 100 list, the JUST Capital America’s Most Just Companies list and the 
FTSE4Good Index Series. 
As we issue this report, we and the world are facing a new challenge with 
COVID-19. We have more than 4,800 employees at over 30 sites around the 
world. The safety of our employees is our top priority. We follow the guidelines 
established by the CDC including disinfecting our workplace frequently, 
stressing the importance of social distancing and working in pods. We continue 
to work through this challenging environment and I’m confident we will emerge 
as a much stronger and more sustainable company. 
Please read this Report to see the progress we have made over the past year in 
our sustainability efforts.A Message from Matt Farrell 
Matthew T. Farrell  
President and Chief Executive Officer
34OUR BRANDS PRODUCTS
PACKAGINGEMPLOYEES & COMMUNITIES
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
ENVIRONMENTWe embrace diversity and inclusion,   
as evidenced by our unique culture and ways of working  
that reflect our core belief that each of us, working as  
a team, can make a real impact
Integrated sustainability into 
our corporate brand  and employer 
value proposition, emphasizing our environmental 
heritage at our global operating  sites
Achieved  90% targeted at  
risk supplier participation  
in our global responsible  
sourcing program
We achieved our goal of  97% 
traceability to the mill level for all our 
palm oil-based ingredients We offset approximately  41%   
of our  operations  carbon  
dioxide emissions that are not offset  
by purchases of sustainable electricityWe achieved  
84% recyclability  
for global packaging Increased adoption of  
How2Recycle® labels from  
600 to almost 1200  
and are incorporating our Arbor Day 
partnership and Green-e logos on 
Northern American packages
We achieved a  52%  reduction   
in Domestic DART  cases  and  
a 17% reduction  in domestic 
recordable injuries over the prior year 
In 2019 we achieved a global  
operations solid waste  
recycling rate of  69%  We offset  100%   of electricity   
use  for our operations by  purchasing  
power from sustainable sources
We sourced  100% of  
our palm oil-based  
ingredients from one RSPO  
certified sustainable supplierWe achieved our goal of fully 
disclosing ingredients  
on all formulated products by 202097%  of Chemicals  
of Concern are removed from 
formulated products
We achieved  our goal to   
no longer use PVC   
in any of our primary packaging
We’ve made significant progress  
toward achieving our goal of using  
100%  responsibly  
sourced material  
by the end of 2020We developed a  new plastic 
packaging strategy  with a focus 
on eliminating or reducing plastic, increasing 
recyclability and the amount of post-consumer 
recycled plastic in our packaging
PROGRESS AT A GLANCE
The following achievements against our goals supported the recognition we received from various third parties, including the 2019 Barron’s 
Most Sustainable Companies list, the EPA’s Green Power Partnership Top 100 list, the JUST capital America’s Most Just Companies list  
and the FTSE4Good Index Series.About Church & 
Dwight Co., Inc.
We were founded in 1846 and incorporated in Delaware 
in 1925.  We develop, manufacture and market a broad range of consumer 
household and personal care products, as well as specialty products focused  
on animal and food production, chemicals and cleaners. Our consumer products 
marketing efforts are focused principally on our 12 “power brands. ” These  
well-recognized brand names include ARM & HAMMER™ baking soda, cat 
litter, laundry detergent, carpet deodorizer and other baking soda based 
products; TROJAN™ condoms, lubricants and vibrators; OXICLEAN™ stain 
removers, cleaning solutions, laundry detergents and bleach alternatives; 
SPINBRUSH™  battery-operated toothbrushes; FIRST RESPONSE™  home 
pregnancy and ovulation test kits; NAIR™  depilatories; ORAJEL ™  oral 
analgesic; XTRA™ laundry detergent; L ’IL CRITTERS™  and VITAFUSION™  
gummy dietary supplements for children and adults, respectively; BATISTE™  
dry shampoo; WATERPIK® water flossers and shower heads; and FLAWLESS® 
hair removal products. 
We sell our consumer products under a variety of brands 
through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass 
merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores, 
dollar and other discount stores, pet and other specialty stores and websites 
and other e-commerce channels, all of which sell our products to consumers. 
We sell our specialty products to industrial customers, livestock producers  
and through distributors.
Our Specialty Products segment focuses on sales to businesses and participates  
in three product areas: Animal and Food Production, Specialty Chemicals  
and Specialty Cleaners. 
With our joint-venture partner, we market ARMAKLEEN™ water-based 
cleaners that offer a more effective and environmentally responsible way to 
remove grease, oil, rust, paint, ink, adhesives and other coatings from most 
metal and plastic surfaces.
POWER BRANDS
5
More than  
4,800 employees
Publicly traded on  
New York Stock Exchange   
(CHD)Business  
Segment:Consumer  
DomesticConsumer  
InternationalSpecialty Products
Description:Household and personal  
care productsPrimarily personal  
care products for  
international markets Animal productivity products, bulk  
sodium bicarbonate and specialty  
cleaning products 
2019 Net Sales: $3,302.6M $756.3M $298.8M
Over the past 16 years, we have expanded from an almost exclusively U.S. business to  
a global company. Our Consumer International business sells a variety of personal care, 
household and over-the-counter products in international markets.  Our expanding 
global presence includes operations in Canada, France, Australia, Germany, the United 
Kingdom, Mexico and Brazil, and we export our products to more than 100 other 
countries. We manage over 60 brands in international markets including global icons 
ARM & HAMMER™ , TROJAN™ and OXICLEAN™ , as well as newly acquired brands 
WATERPIK®, ANUSOL ™ , VIVISCAL ™ , FLAWLESS™ and TOPPIK™ .
Additional information on our principal product segments can be found in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K.
Acquisitions / Divestitures
On May 1, 2019, we acquired the FLAWLESS® and FINISHING TOUCH® hair removal 
business from Ideavillage Products Corporation. There were no divestitures in 2019. 
2019 net sales  
of $4.357 billion2019 Total Shareholder 
Return of 8.3%Headquartered  
in Ewing, NJ
6Sustainability Approach
We place a high priority on operating in a responsible, respectful and ethical manner.  
The Church & Dwight Code of Conduct provides guidance on a broad array of business 
ethics and legal compliance topics. In addition, our Global Operations Guiding Principles  
set out the minimum standards we require of ourselves and our vendors to ensure:  
 Compliance with ethical and applicable legal requirements
 Workers' and labor rights are respected and protected
 Prevention of forced and child labor
  Working conditions are safe and the health and safety of workers is protected
  Workers are treated with respect and dignity
  Manufacturing processes are environmentally responsible
  Compliance with all applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery and trade laws
76 Core Pillars of
Sustainability
8Our global sustainability approach  
means conducting our business in a 
socially responsible manner, such that  
we preserve the environment for future 
generations, provide a safe and healthy 
working environment for our employees, 
and respect the communities where  
we work while promoting our  
continued success. 
Our global sustainability platform is derived from  
our heritage and organizational values, and it is one  
of our leadership strategies. The following six pillars  
are the core focus of our sustainability efforts:OUR BRANDS
Delight consumers with our 
brands & contribute towards a 
more sustainable world.
PRODUCTS
Provide safe and effective 
products for consumers &  
the environment.
PACKAGING
Utilize consumer friendly & 
environmentally responsible 
packaging.
EMPLOYEES & COMMUNITIES
Embrace the principles of good 
corporate citizenship and social 
responsibility within the  
communities we can impact.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Improve our suppliers’ environmental, 
labor, health & safety and ethical 
practices.
ENVIRONMENT
Minimize environmental  
impact of our global  
operations.
9How do we govern our sustainability approach?  
In 2019, our Corporate Issues Council (the Council) 
continued to guide the integration of sustainability with all 
parts of our business, and to drive continuous improvement 
in our sustainability approach and performance.
Our Board of Directors, acting principally through its Governance & 
Nominating Committee, oversees our sustainability program. More 
information on our corporate governance, including the charter 
documents for our Board Committees, is available on our website. 
The Corporate Governance webpage also includes links to our Code  
of Conduct in multiple languages.
The Council is comprised of senior executives representing all key 
functional areas across the company, including Human Resources, 
Law, Global Operations, Finance, Research & Development, Marketing 
and Sales. The Council takes the lead in defining and implementing 
our sustainability strategies across the six pillars of our global 
sustainability program. Its duties include allocating resources to 
appropriately address sustainability issues; reporting on our progress 
to drive continuous improvement and monitoring, prioritizing and 
addressing evolving standards and stakeholder requirements. 
10How do we assess material issues?  
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) defines material issues as 
those that “have a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s 
ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental 
or social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large. ” 
Defining our material issues, including environmental matters 
and reputational risk, is an ongoing process overseen by our 
Corporate Issues Council. The Council established the six 
pillars of our sustainability program (identified previously) by 
collecting issues our various internal and external stakeholders 
expressed as sustainability priorities. The Council evaluates 
and ranks various risks and opportunities based on relative 
impact and likelihood. The Council evaluates and discusses the 
most significant sustainability issues, risks and opportunities 
we face and the functions within the Company that should be 
accountable for them. Our most material issues are listed in the 
accompanying chart, along with an indication of whether the 
issue relates to our own operations, our upstream impacts in 
the supply chain, or our downstream impacts associated with 
customers and consumers. Note that the concept of “material 
issues” under the GRI guidelines used for purposes of this Report 
differs from the concept of “materiality” for purposes of securities 
laws and disclosures required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission’s rules.
In addition, the Report references the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) industry specific standards covering 
potential financially material issues. (see SASB Index at the back 
of the report)
Issues that we determined to be potentially material for the 
Company are reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and 
include environmental matters and reputational risk. Certain 
of those risks, which we identified in that report, include the 
circumstances outlines on the following page.T opic
Upstream Operations Downstream
Our Brands
Engaging with 
customers & consumers
Integrating 
sustainability
Products
Safe ingredients
Disclosure
Packaging
Consumer-friendly 
and environmentally 
responsible
Employees & 
Communities
Diversity & inclusion, 
gender equality and 
employee health
Community-enhancing 
philanthropy and 
outreach
Responsible 
Sourcing
Suppliers’ 
environmental, labor, 
health & safety and 
ethical practices
Environment
Energy and GHGs;
water & wasteWhere do the impacts occur?
11Consumer preferences continue to evolve due to a number of 
factors, including:
Fragmentation of the consumer market and changes in the consumer 
demographics, including the aging of the general population, and the 
emergence of millennial and younger generations with different spending, 
consumption and purchasing habits
Evolving consumer concerns or perceptions regarding environmental, social 
and governance practices of manufacturers, including packing materials (such 
as plastic packaging), and their environmental impact on sustainability
A growing demand for natural or organic products and ingredients
Changing consumer sentiment toward non-local products or sources among 
millennial and other demographic groups
Evolving consumer concerns or perceptions (whether accurate or inaccurate) 
regarding the effects of ingredients or substances present in certain 
consumer products
Concern over climate change may result in new or 
increased legal and regulatory requirements to reduce 
or mitigate the effects of climate change on the 
environment.  Increased costs of energy or compliance with emissions 
standards due to increased legal or regulatory requirements may cause 
disruptions in or increased costs associated with manufacturing our products.  
In addition, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact 
on the environment or perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act 
responsibly with respect to the environment or to effectively respond to new, or 
changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning climate change or other 
sustainability concerns could adversely affect our business and reputation.
12As climate change, land use, water use, deforestation, recyclability or 
recoverability of packaging, ingredients and other sustainability concerns 
become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments, non-
governmental organizations and our customers, consumers and investors are 
increasingly sensitive to these issues. This increased focus on sustainability 
may result in new laws, regulations and requirements that could negatively 
affect us. This could cause us to incur additional costs or to make changes to our 
operations to comply with any of the foregoing. We could also lose revenue if 
our consumers change brands or our customers move business from us because 
we have not complied with their sustainability requirements.
Certain of our business activities, the production of some of the materials used 
in our products (including petroleum based, agricultural and forest materials), 
and the growing global demand for livestock products (which is a focus of our 
Animal and Food Production business) contribute to deforestation, climate 
change and reduction in biodiversity, and can adversely impact water quality 
and availability, people and communities.  
Climate change is, in turn, a threat to each of those activities. While we strive 
to minimize the environmental impact of our global operations, a potential 
loss in business could result from reduced demand for our products and loss of 
customers if we do not meet their expectations related to our efforts towards 
sustainability and fighting climate change.
Additionally, environmentally-conscious investors may choose not to invest 
in our Common Stock if we do not comply with their demands for sustainable 
business practices. These costs, changes, potential loss of revenue and potential 
reputational harm could have a material adverse effect on our financial 
condition, results of operations, liquidity, cash flows and share price.
We have recognized that our customers and consumers 
are increasingly demanding transparency regarding our 
efforts to mitigate our impacts on climate change.   
For example, during 2019, some of our major customers requested we respond 
to various questionnaires, including the Climate Disclosure Project (CDP) 
Climate Change and Forests Questionnaires. They use our responses and CDP 
grades to evaluate us.
13Stakeholder Method of Engagement
Our Employees• Employee engagement surveys 
• Corporate T own Hall meetings
• Quarterly CEO video message 
• Digital signage and plant postings
• Plant meetings • Plant management  
    production walk through
• Intranet site 
•  N e w s l e t t e r s  –  S C O O P  a n d                                    
    Brand Buzz
• Social media postings
• Direct mailing
Our Consumers• Consumer inquiries 
• Consumer surveys • Social media postings
• Postings on company 
    website
Our Retail Customers  
& Partners• Trade partner supplier 
    expectations
• Commercial partner inquiries  
    or surveys• Meetings, conferences, 
    presentations
Our Peers & Suppliers• Peer benchmarking
• Supplier meetings • Assessments and disclosure 
    requests
• Trade meetings, conferences 
    or presentations
Shareholders &  
Investor Groups• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings 
• Investor conferences
• Individual communications (written, telephone or web-based)
Government &  
Regulatory Bodies• Monitoring of regulatory activity             • Inspections and surveys
• Face-to-face meetings
Non-Governmental 
Organizations• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings 
• Participation in boards, advisory councils 
• Reporting and disclosure expectations
Industry Trade Associations• Business association memberships, newsletters, updates or mailings
• Active leadership and committee engagement 
Local Communities & 
Community Groups• Direct inquiries and feedback 
• Face-to-face meetings
• Charitable donations
Media• Direct inquiries and feedback
• Communications (written, telephone or web-based)How do we engage stakeholders? 
We regularly receive communications and inquiries from 
our stakeholders regarding our sustainability practices. 
Stakeholder issues are included on the agenda for each 
Corporate Issues Council meeting, and sustainability 
issues raised by investors and other stakeholders are 
reviewed with the Board’s Governance & Nominating 
Committee at each of its meetings. 
Our customers continue to express interest in our 
performance with respect to climate impacts and 
mitigation, palm oil supply chain management, water  
use, and social impacts in the supply chain. A segment  
of investors have also raised some of these topics.  
We respond to these requests by sharing information 
through the Climate Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate 
and Forestry questionnaires. The Responsible Sourcing 
and Environment sections of this report include more 
detail about our management of these topics. We engage 
with our stakeholders using various methods including 
those indicated in the table to the right. 
While management has primary responsibility for 
stakeholder engagement, our Board of Directors is 
regularly informed about these efforts. Within the 
Board of Directors, the Governance & Nominating 
Committee provides an oversight role for the stakeholder 
communications. Our Independent Lead Director is 
responsible for ensuring that stockholder sustainability 
requests, recommendations and proposals are evaluated  
by the Committee, additional committees within the Board  
as appropriate, and then by the full Board if needed.
We work with our local communities to address concerns 
relating to our operations. We engage with them through 
multiple channels including this Report, our filings with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, our website and 
one-on-one communications. 
14In addition to the methods already outlined, we also connect with stakeholders  
through industry groups, associations and coalitions including the following:
151617Our Brands
Delight Consumers with Our 
Brands & Contribute Toward
A MORE 
SUSTAINABLE 
WORLD
 Integrate sustainability into our 
brands and marketing efforts.
 Utilize our brands to drive 
awareness and engagement around 
sustainability.
18Removing, reducing and restricting the use  
of materials that may present human health or 
environmental toxicity risks.
Optimizing product and package design to  
reduce materials.
Maximizing the use of sustainably sourced materials.
Supporting recycling by designing with recyclable 
materials and communicating recyclability.Meeting our goals requires:  Our goal is to delight our customers and  
consumers with high-quality, affordable products.  
We continually challenge ourselves to create and develop products with new and 
distinctive features that meet ever-changing consumer needs and preferences. 
From the earliest design stages to the end of consumer use, we explore ways to 
reduce the environmental impacts of our product formulation and packaging. We 
have established sustainability goals related to our packaging and ingredients, and 
will continue to provide updates on our progress in future reports. 
Green-e Program   
In 2019, our Brands continued to showcase their environmental efforts on-pack. 
Millions of packages of Church & Dwight Co., Inc. products shipped featuring the 
Green-e logo. Through the Green-e certification program, Church & Dwight, Co. Inc., 
has been able to match 100% of electricity from global operations with renewable 
energy credits and feature that logo prominently on packaging.
19Vitafusion™ Gummy Vitamins are proud of our 3-year 
partnership with The Fruit Tree Planting Foundation, 
reinforcing our commitment to support communities 
in need by planting 200,000 fruit trees in 2020.  
The Fruit Tree Planting Foundation is an international nonprofit dedicated to 
planting fruit trees to benefit the environment and its communities. Planting 
200,000 fruit trees will generate more than 28 million pieces of fresh fruit and 
more than 33 million pounds of oxygen, every year, as well as reduce CO2 and 
air pollution in communities that need it most. 
Through our efforts, fruit trees have been planted at public schools, city 
parks, community gardens, low-income neighborhoods, international hunger 
relief sites, and in hurricane-stricken areas. Previous fruit tree plantings 
include Houston, TX; Staten Island, NY; Bronx, NY; Miami, FL; El Salvador; 
and Uganda. The first planting of 2019 took place in Williamsburg,  
Brooklyn at 366 Hewes Street. This building is owned and managed  
by Southside United HDFC-Los Sures, a nonprofit affordable  
housing and social services provider.  
VITAFUSION™ & 
 the Fruit Tree Planting 
Foundation:  
Delivering Sustainable, Delicious 
Nutrients for Generations  
to Come  
Brand Support in the Communities 
Our drive to improve the communities where we work and 
live is realized when we donate and volunteer. Each brand 
has its own unique way of giving back to the communities 
they can impact the most. 
20“We believe the planting, growth of the fruits and the 
education that accompanies the process can be used 
to empower residents to be more conscious of their 
environment and help them consider healthy lifestyles,”  
  - Juan Ramos, Executive Director of Southside United HDFC-Los Sures. 
STATEN ISLAND, NYMICHIGANMINNESOTA
CHICAGO, IL
BRONX, NY
MIAMI, FL
ATLANTA, GANEW ORLEANS, LALOS ANGELES, CA
EL SALVADORUGANDAHOUSTON, TX
Other 2019 plantings and educational workshops took place in Detroit, Chicago, New 
Orleans, Atlanta, and with the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan and the 
White Earth Tribe in Minnesota. 
So far, we have planted 128,600 trees, and plan to round out 
the 200,000 goal by August 2020! 
Learn how VITAFUSION™ is leading the way with the Fruit Tree Project  
at wedigfruittrees.com
21ARM & HAMMER™  Delivers Innovation in the 
Thriving ECommerce Space with New, Lightweight 
Laundry Solution  
In 2019, ARM & HAMMER™ – America’s #1 value laundry brand  
– launched an innovative, affordable, space-saving solution:  
ARM & HAMMER™ Plus OxiClean™ Super Concentrated  
Liquid Laundry Detergent.   
ARM & HAMMER™ designed this product with conservation and convenience in mind, 
using 37% less plastic and 30% less water. The super concentrated formula provides 3X 
more cleaning power per drop with effective stain-lifting and odor-fighting power, all in  
a compact bottle that is easier to carry, use and store. At 66% less weight  
than a traditional laundry bottle, the lightweight detergent fits in the  
palm of your hand and is ideal for home shipping: a 2-pack can be  
delivered directly to your door via Amazon & Walmart.com.   
With less plastic, less water and lower emissions during shipping,  
this is convenience consumers can feel good about.
*VS. A&H PLUS OXICLEANTM 43.75 FL OZ  
LIQUID LAUNDRY DETERGENT
22FIRST RESPONSE,™  America’s #1 Pregnancy T est Kit brand, partnered with Habitat for 
Humanity in November 2019 to serve growing families and those trying to conceive within the 
community.  At FIRST RESPONSE™ , we believe in the importance of a nurturing environment -  
whether in the womb or in a new, safe home.  
In collaboration with the Houston Chapter and numerous volunteers, FIRST RESPONSE™ helped 
a Habitat for Humanity family affected by Hurricane Harvey, pay-it-forward and build a home for 
another family in need in Houston, TX.  
FIRST RESPONSE™ understands the experiences, emotions and challenges couples face as they 
prepare to grow their families. T ogether, we’re proudly building homes for those in need of support,  
and creating meaningful partnerships with the families we serve.    
FIRST RESPONSE™ Continuous Partnership with RESOLVE, The National Infertility Association   
For over a decade, FIRST RESPONSE™ has partnered with RESOLVE to raise infertility awareness and 
encourage communities to educate themselves about reproductive health as a part of National Fertility 
Awareness Week®.  RESOLVE provides compassionate support and community, and advocates for 
coverage, access to care, education and awareness of all family building options.  
T o support those with infertility, in 2019 FIRST RESPONSE™ donated over 10,000 pregnancy 
and ovulation tests to dozens of RESOLVE “Walks of Hope” fundraising events across the U.S. 
FIRST RESPONSE™ is proud to be a voice in the infertility community; promoting infertility 
stories and RESOLVE on millions of First Response Ovulation  
T est kit packages since 2007. 
Through our continued partnerships with medical experts and family-building  
organizations, FIRST RESPONSE™ is highlighting the stories of women and couples  
along their fertility journeys, while providing the latest research and information for  
couples planning to grow their families.  
FIRST RESPONSE™  
Partners with Habitat for 
Humanity, A Global Non-
Profit Housing Organization 
23TROJAN™  protects communities with sexual health 
programs, education, donations and less waste
As the manufacturer and distributor of TROJAN™ brand condoms, we are 
committed to complete sexual health through education, and increasing 
awareness among young adults in the U.S. about the risks of unprotected  
sex – notably unintended pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).  
In 2019, we took a stance against abstinence-only programs through our 
“Information is the Best Protection” initiative. We sparked significant 
conversation on social media about the importance of having access to sexual 
health education that is accurate, complete and inclusive. We built a wall designed 
to look like it was made out of ‘chewed gum’ and invited people to chew a piece 
of gum and add it to the wall. The activation allowed us to cast light on a shame-
based metaphor used in abstinence-only programs where teachers chew a piece 
of gum and compare students who have had sex to a piece of chewed gum.   
We are proud to help reduce the impact and pervasiveness of these misleading, 
shame-based metaphors.   
ENVIRONMENT DATA
 24 ENVIRONMENT DATAPromoted the importance of consent with the “Be Clear On Consent” social 
campaign that reinforced sex as an agreement that both partners need to say yes to. 
Worked with the Condom Collective, a youth-led grass roots movement committed 
to make the U.S. a sexually healthy nation, to donate more than one million condoms 
to student-run safe sites in a peer-to-peer program on college campuses.   
Donated condoms to clinics at Penn Medicine Princeton Health Hospital and Albert 
Einstein Medical Center. 
Supported HiTOPS, a Princeton-based non-profit that focuses on adolescent sexual 
health education and support, with condom donations and grant support. 
Continued a tradition of donating more than one million condoms to health 
departments across the U.S. annually as a part of a long-standing partnership with 
the National Coalition of STD Directors (NCSD). T ogether, we refocus attention, 
resources and consumer education on condoms as a highly effective form of STD and 
unintended pregnancy prevention. Through this partnership, which is referenced on 
our condom boxes, we also continue to support the “Condom Connect” Initiatives.   
Drove sexual health education and action through Amazon Prime Day. Based on 
the number of condoms purchased, TROJAN™ donated 30,000 condoms to support 
nonprofits and public health organizations.   
Redesigned our condoms packaging in 2019 to increase our condom carton 
recyclability from 78% to 95%. By making this change, we’re eliminating over 125 
tons of “waste” cartons (annually) by converting them to recyclables.  
Making a Difference
25ARM & HAMMER™ Baking Soda Sponsors STEM  
Competition Odyssey of the Mind™ 
In 2019, ARM & HAMMER™ Baking Soda kicked off its partnership 
with Odyssey of the Mind, ™ an international STEM competition where 
students in kindergarten through college work together to solve creative 
problems at the regional, state and world level.
For over 170 years, ARM & HAMMER™ Baking Soda has been committed to 
encouraging inventive problem-solving, from the kitchen, to the outdoors, to the 
classroom, empowering millions of consumers to dream up countless versatile 
uses for the product. 
Starting with the 2019-2020 tournament year, ARM & HAMMER™ 
will be integrated into the program through the following:
Sponsoring a problem where teams will use ARM & HAMMER™ Baking 
Soda as a key element in their solution and performance. 
Providing $100,000 in sponsorship grants to help more student teams 
participate in the program
Activating on-site events at Odyssey of the Mind™ World Finals at Iowa 
State University in 2020, including hands-on classroom STEM workshops 
led by Church & Dwight R&D teams, as well as other on-campus events 
to provide edu-tainment to the thousands of teams and families in 
attendance.
This partnership will help us to advance our mission of championing 
innovative thinking, and we are excited to see the creative solutions 
these powerful young minds come up with!
26The ARM & HAMMER™ Pet Care Brand is 
passionate about pet adoption. In 2019, the Brand 
established or expanded its relationships with multiple animal shelters 
and created a series of rescue stories designed to raise awareness for pets 
needing caring furr-ever homes. Additionally, ARM & HAMMER™ launched 
the Feline Generous program in December: an online platform that easily 
connects people to a network of local cat shelters across the country to help 
increase adoption and generate product and monetary donations. Each shelter 
participating received a donation of 1,000 pounds of litter. We also continued 
a tradition of donating litter to shelters around the country through our plant 
network, providing over 1 million pounds in 2019. Through our partnership efforts, 
we also made sponsorship donations to the Morris Animal Refuge in Philadelphia, 
the Cat Adoption T eam in Portland, OR and ACCT Philly. These organizations 
support local rescue, homeless animal fostering and adoption, while providing 
loving care for animals in need.
ARM & HAMMER™ Supports Farms and their Animals 
Through Optimum Nutrition                                       
Within our Specialty Products Division, the Animal and Food Production business 
delivers high-quality microbial and nutritional solutions to livestock producers to 
enhance animal health and performance. Our mission is to help farmers feed the 
world while taking the best care of their animals, their families, the environment and 
communities where we live, work and play. We are committed to continuously working 
to innovate and advance our portfolio of animal and food production offerings.
T o learn more about the Animal and Food Production business,  
visit AHanimalnutrition.com
27Products
PROVIDE SAFE  
AND EFFECTIVE  
PRODUCTS  
for Consumers & the Environment
Remove 100% of Chemicals of Concern1  
from formulated products by end of 2020  
and timely elimination from acquired products.
Disclose ingredients on all formulated 
products in 2020. 
1. The chemicals of concern are derived from applicable global  
regulations and customer / retailer guidelines.
PRODUCTS
28PRODUCTS29
29All ingredients found in Church & Dwight products  
world-wide are disclosed on-line or on pack.
We devote significant attention and care to transparently disclosing 
ingredient and safety information for our products. Safety Data Sheets 
for our products are available on our website.  We disclose ingredients in all our 
products in accordance with the relevant federal regulations, and continue to work 
towards full ingredient transparency by the end of 2020. T o that end, all of our global 
products have on-line or on pack ingredient disclosure.  
While all our brands work to meet consumer needs safely, VITAFUSION™ and  
L ’IL CRITTERS™ are exemplary of the transparency and simple effectiveness we seek 
to achieve.  America’s #1 gummy vitamin brands offer products that are 100% free of 
artificial flavors, high fructose corn syrup, synthetic (FD&C) dyes, gluten and dairy. 
Removing Chemicals of Concern
We are committed to developing safe and sustainable products for 
our consumers and the environment, including removing Chemicals 
of Concern from our formulated (consumer) products, developing 
new products that meet our Chemicals of Concern process, and being 
transparent about the ingredients in our products. Our goal is to remove 
100% of Chemicals of Concern from formulated products by the end of 2020, and 
timely elimination from acquired products. T o that end, 97% of the Chemicals of 
Concern have been eliminated from our products.   Fragrance and Flavor Assurance Process
Fragrances and flavors are important to our consumers, and we take care to 
tailor our products to their preferences, while assuring that all ingredients 
used to create these attributes are safe and meet our Chemicals of 
Concern process. We design all fragrance mixtures to comply with the 
safety standards set by the International Fragrance Association, and 
all flavor mixtures to those of the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers 
Association and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. We also 
conduct comprehensive safety reviews on all fragrances used, based 
on expected patterns of consumer use. As existing fragrance and flavor 
ingredients come under regulatory review, we revise current products 
to comply with the new guidelines. Additionally, we specially manufacture 
mild and fragrance-free products for consumers with sensitive skin.   
INGREDIENT SELECTION: Evaluate the efficacy and safety of each ingredient 
at its proposed concentration level, using published regulatory lists, including 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Safer Choice Ingredient list and 
Chemicals of Concern as noted by our stakeholders.
INGREDIENT/ FINISHED PRODUCT EVALUATION: Determine potential 
human exposure and evaluate the safety of proposed ingredients/products 
under normal use and reasonably foreseeable misuse conditions.
PRE-MARKET SAFETY CLEARANCE: Develop a pre-market safety dossier 
on the finished product to ensure that all safety and sustainability criteria are 
reviewed prior to manufacture and prior to shipment to customers.
POST-MARKET EVALUATION: Conduct post-market surveillance and gather 
customer and consumer feedback.1. 
2. 
3. 
4. T o meet these goals, we have developed a four-step ingredient 
and product assurance process:
CLICK HERE!
PRODUCTS
30
30Product Safety  
Our products are subject to multiple regulatory guidelines and requirements, for 
example in the U.S. many of our products are subject to regulation by one or more U.S. 
agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Consumer 
Product Safety Commission (CPSC). Our activities also are regulated by various agencies 
of the countries, states, provinces and other localities in which we sell our products.  
FDA regulations govern a variety of matters relating to the products, such as product 
development, manufacturing, premarket clearance or approval, advertising and 
distribution. The regulations and standards imposed by the FDA and similar non-U.S. 
agencies evolve over time and can require us to make changes in our manufacturing 
processes and quality systems to maintain compliance. These agencies periodically 
inspect our manufacturing and other facilities. If we fail to comply with applicable 
regulations and standards, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines and penalties, 
recall of products and/or cessation of manufacturing and/or distribution.
In addition, we sell products that are subject to regulation under the Federal Insecticide, 
Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and the T oxic Substances Control Act, both of which are 
administered by the EPA. We are subject to regulation by the FTC with respect to the 
content of our labeling, advertising, promotion, trade practices and other matters.
We have strict policies and procedures in place to ensure 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and that our 
products and packaging are safe for consumer use.  With the guidance of 
toxicologists, trade associations and external scientific experts, we actively monitor the 
latest science on any emerging chemicals of risk. Based on this guidance, as warranted, 
we develop action plans to remove chemicals of concern present in any of the products 
we market. 
Beyond compliance, in 2019 we continued our product sustainability journey with 
an ongoing program to eliminate materials that do not meet our own formulation 
standards, including developing more than 35 improved product reformulations. In one 
instance, we expanded our offerings of highly concentrated unit dose laundry detergent 
pods, which save water in the manufacturing process, reduce the amount of packaging 
used relative to traditional liquid laundry detergent products, and provide more efficient 
means of product transportation. 
CLICK HERE!
PRODUCTS
31
31Packaging
Utilize Consumer-Friendly  
& Environmentally  
RESPONSIBLE  
PACKAGING
 Ensure greater than 95% of global product 
packaging is recyclable by 2025.
 Ensure all non-pharma product packaging is 
free from PVC, including timely elimination 
from newly acquired products.
 Source all paper and board packaging  
from recycled material and/or sustainably 
managed forests by end of 2020.
Increase Post Consumer Recycled  
plastic to a minimum of 25% average  
across all global plastic packaging  
by end of 2025.
PACKAGING
32 PACKAGINGWe are committed to developing and producing 
consumer friendly and environmentally 
responsible packaging improvements across all 
our Global brands.  In 2019, we added a new Packaging goal to 
our Corporate Sustainability metrics to exceed 25% average inclusion 
rates for Post Consumer Recycled (PCR) materials across our entire 
global plastic packaging portfolio by the year 2025.   
Packaging Recyclability
We have continued to drive for an increase in the recyclability across our 
broad portfolio of products. Despite acquisitions we now are at over 84% 
recyclability for our global packaging. We continue to work closely with 
a number of sustainability partners including the Sustainable Packaging 
Coalition (SPC), Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR), Recycled 
Paperboard Alliance (RPA), and Western Michigan University (WMU).  
We are also seeking to find and partner with innovative packaging 
material suppliers to implement improvements against a number of  
our sustainability goals.
T o improve the recyclability of our detergent “suitcase” packaging, we 
worked with our suppliers, APR and SPC. Through rigorous testing and 
verification, this redesigned laundry package represents more than 23 
million pounds of HDPE plastic which is now “Widely Recyclable. ”
PACKAGING
33The ARM & HAMMER™ Carpet Deodorizer packaging was previously  
“Non-Recyclable. ”  In 2019, the business completed a project to 
eliminate the plastic pour spout fitment from the design and 
replace it with a simple yet effective paperboard opening.   
This change in combination with a paperboard barrier coating, which does  
not prevent effective recycling, means that these cartons represent over  
5.5 million pounds of paperboard material which is now “Widely Recyclable. ” 
The ARM& HAMMER™ Laundry Detergent Powder cartons were made  
with a combination of virgin and recycled board with a protective barrier 
coating. This carton structure resulted in a How2Recycle® classification 
of “Non-Recyclable” packaging.  In 2019, Church & Dwight worked with 
our suppliers and Western Michigan University to create and test a carton 
that could successfully pass the Recycled Paperboard Alliance tests for 
repulpability/recyclability.  This packaging change has resulted in over  
2 million pounds of paperboard material becoming “Widely Recyclable”  
at end of life.
Our premium cat litter products (Clump & Seal™ , Slide™ , Clump & Seal™ 
Platinum) require a barrier carton to maintain product performance. These 
cartons were initially designated “Check Locally” for How2Recycle® labeling.  
We worked with RPA and WMU in 2019 to complete and pass both OCC-E 
tests for repulpability and recyclability. We then provided the data to the  
SPC’s How2Recycle® team to update our classification. This improvement in 
2019 resulted in over 15 million pounds of paperboard packaging becoming 
“Widely Recyclable. ”
PVC Elimination
Church & Dwight no longer uses PVC in any of its primary 
packaging, and is committed to eliminating it from our newly 
acquired brands. *  Acquired in late 2017, WATERPIK® sells its shower head 
products across retail, online and home improvement outlets, some of which 
have not been heavily focused on packaging sustainability initiatives. Similar to 
its main competitors, the WATERPIK® business used shower head clam shell 
packages, which were manufactured with PVC plastic material. Under our 
stewardship, by the end of 2019, research and development was completed to 
convert more than half of the clamshells into recyclable PET materials.  
NEW CAPOLD CAP
PACKAGING
34* Note that this excludes pharmaceuticalsBlack Plastic Recyclability
In 2019, we launched OXICLEAN™ Dark Protect™ products in North America. Despite 
using a detectable black colorant and passing line tests on materials recovery facility 
sortation equipment from several suppliers, it has not yet been possible to gain wide 
acceptance of the recyclability of this valuable material in North America. T o encourage 
widespread acceptance of this recyclable black plastic, Church & Dwight has partnered 
with the UNILEVER Sustainable Packaging team. UNILEVER is also using recyclable 
black plastic colorant within their packaging. Through the APR forum, both companies 
have conducted a rigorous testing program to effectively demonstrate recyclability in 
real world conditions. A working group has been formed across key plastic recyclability 
stakeholders to fully investigate the recyclability across MRF centers in North America. 
T ogether we are hoping to get approval for this new sortable color technology, which will 
enable millions of plastic packages to become “Widely Recyclable. ”   
Paperboard Sourcing
We have been working with our paperboard suppliers to ensure that the corrugated 
and carton board we use in our packaging is derived from 100% recycled board 
materials or sustainably sourced forests and is handled through the supply chain in a 
responsible manner. In 2019, we continued to make good progress with our existing 
and newly acquired packaging portfolio, ensuring that the vast majority of our material 
is responsibly sourced. We will continue to work with our remaining suppliers to drive 
towards 100% compliance in 2020.
Consumer Education of Package Recycling 
During 2019, we expanded the use of How2Recycle® labels through our partnership  
with the Sustainable Packaging Coalition. We increased adoption from 600 to almost 
1,200 How2Recycle® labels on our North American packages. We even rolled out the 
program to our recently acquired WATERPIK® brand where How2Recycle® labels are  
now featured across a number of new product launches.
This program is highly beneficial to the recycling industry by informing consumers  
what should and should not be recycled through clean and simple communication.  
More information on the How2Recycle® Labels can be found at   
www.How2Recycle.info . 
PACKAGING
351. 
2. 
3. Plastic should be eliminated or reduced from our packaging wherever it is 
practical. This means seeking non-plastic alternatives from across our supplier 
base. Plastic should also be reduced in weight where it is not deemed necessary 
for product protection and containment.
Plastic recyclability should be increased through a combination of plastic 
component simplification and consumer education. During development, we will 
seek solutions to make plastic packaging free from contaminants that prevent 
recyclability. This can include moving from multiple plastic materials, which 
cannot be separated, to a mono material structure, or removing metal from 
plastic packaging.
Plastic sustainability should be grown through increased circularity. We will 
increase the amount of Post Consumer Recycled (PCR) plastic across our 
packaging, and will increasingly look to source plastic from sources that actively 
reduce pollution from our Earth’s Oceans. 
T erraCycle
Church & Dwight continued its partnership with T erraCycle, an 
innovative recycling company that has become a global leader in 
hard-to-recycle packaging waste. T ogether, we are taking packaging, 
baking soda and unit dose laundry detergent pouches – all typically not 
recyclable – and making them a recyclable commodity.   
Sign up here.  
Watch the video to learn more!Plastic Packaging Strategy
Aligned with our overall sustainability objectives, and in recognition of the 
global challenges around the use of plastic in packaging, we developed a 
new Plastic Packaging Strategy in 2019. We want to ensure that our plastic 
packaging has minimum impact on the environment, and we hope to achieve 
that with three key focus areas:
PACKAGING
36Employees &
Communities
Embrace the Principles of  
Good Corporate Citizenship and 
Social Responsibility Within  
THE COMMUNITIES 
WE CAN IMPACT
Integrated sustainability into our corporate brand 
and employer value proposition, emphasizing  
our environmental heritage.
Enhance our Corporate Social Responsibility 
program to include goals, programs and 
commitments around diversity & inclusion, 
gender equality, health and well-being.
Establish community enhancing,  
philanthropic programs and initiatives  
at our global operating sites.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
37EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
38
We are a place where any one person can make a real difference. We power 
people everyday by providing quality, affordable consumer products.
We’re a company that genuinely cares about our people, our products, our 
consumers and the environment. Consistent with our environmental heritage, 
from the earliest design stages of our products to the end of consumer use, 
employees across all functions support the sustainability priorities summarized 
in this Report. From this caring stems our shared passion to work hard,  
innovate and push boundaries. Our collegial spirit and collaborative mentality 
help us to win while making progress in our sustainability objectives. We work 
in a fast-paced environment to solve problems and get things done.
Our unique, informal culture champions courage, determination and 
collaboration. We benefit from a small company feel with opportunities to make 
our mark across the company and across the world. We’re purposefully lean so 
our jobs are bigger and provide the opportunity to learn and grow.
Ambition meets impact at Church & Dwight. Our size helps us take ownership, 
learn and grow, and make an impact on a global scale. As the sole corporate 
sponsor of the first Earth Day in 1970, doing the right thing-for people and the 
planet-runs deep in our roots.
Ours is a culture where relationships matter. We work together to share 
ideas and contribute toward collective goals. We roll up our sleeves to create 
products consumers love.
While we might not be the largest company in our industry, we believe we can 
have the biggest impact. Our employer brand, which was launched in 2019, is 
our commitment to helping potential employees ensure a good fit, in turn helps 
the communities in which we work. Our belief is that our unique culture and 
way of working enables employees to win in their personal and professional 
lives in ways that would not be possible if they worked elsewhere.
The Company believes in diversity to advance the best interests of the Company. 
In this context, diversity may encompass a variety of dimensions (including, among 
other things, diversity in business and other professional expertise and experience, 
gender, geography, age, race and ethnicity). The Company recognizes the importance of positions being filled by the most suitable and competent individuals and 
that bias and discrimination – whether conscious or unconscious – may inhibit, 
among other things, diversity and the selection, retention and promotion of 
individuals based on merit. The Board also recognizes that “the tone is set at 
the top” and the processes applicable to determining the composition of the 
Board and senior management will have significant impact on attracting and 
retaining individuals throughout the Company. Diversity, including the level 
of representation of women, is considered by the Company, the Board and 
the Corporate Governance Committee in the identification and nomination 
of directors and in the hiring of senior management. The Board has adopted 
processes for the nomination and evaluation of individuals as members 
of the Board and its committees that are based on objective merit-based 
criteria which afford due regard to the potential benefits of diversity. The 
company monitors diversity and our people managers are trained in avoiding 
unconscious bias to ensure we have a diverse workforce that brings ideas and 
views from various backgrounds.At Church & Dwight, we have a collective 
energy and ambition.EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
39Training & Development
We are committed to ensuring that all employees have the opportunities, 
tools and resources to develop and drive their careers. Our employees 
gain valuable experience in the increasing responsibilities and 
opportunities for success in their jobs. Employees broaden their skills  
by participating in cross functional projects and assignments.
We continue our commitment to LEAP (Leadership Empowerment 
Achievement Program). In 2019, we focused on elevating the capabilities 
of our leaders to drive growth by focusing on Our Purpose, Our People, 
Our Work. These pillars allow our leaders to demonstrate behaviors that 
drive high performance through our employees. It also ensures we are 
a Place Where People Matter. Across our organization, we have taken 
action on the “You Matter” engagement survey. Managers and  
employees have collaboratively worked on these plans to improve 
employee engagement.
We took our Modern Workplace mission on a global tour visiting 17 
locations in five countries, culminating in 85 training sessions and The Red Bandana Award on Yammer 
The Red Bandana Award recognizes employees below director level who 
demonstrate 2020 Behaviors, which help drive our 2020 goals and vision. 
The Disruptor Award is given to an individual or team who displays the 2020 
Behaviors and achieves significant business impact. In 2019, the Disruptor 
Award was given to an employee who proposed the idea of Clean & Simple, 
a laundry detergent that packs a powerful clean with just six essential 
ingredients and water, meeting consumers’ desire for products that are 
simple and transparent. This product is now available in retail outlets.BRING YOUR DETERMINATION:  We’ll give you the power to own your success and do work you didn’t know was possible.
BRING YOUR TEAM SPIRIT : We’ll offer you an open-minded and low-ego environment.
BRING YOUR COURAGE: We’ll help you make a tangible impact.TOGETHER WE HAVE  
THE POWER TO WIN
connecting with 700 employees. Each session started a lot of thought-
provoking discussion and helped our employees understand our Office 
365 capabilities. These visits resulted in a much higher engagement in 
OneDrive, T eams and many of the other Microsoft 365 applications. Last 
year, we also leveraged the reporting capabilities in Power BI to help us 
view data in a smarter and more efficient way.EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
40
Hiring Our Heroes
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation’s Hiring Our Heroes (HOH) 
is a nationwide effort to connect veterans, service members and military 
spouses with meaningful employment opportunities. In collaboration with the 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s vast network of state and local chambers and 
strategic partners from the public, private and non-profit sectors, their goal 
is to create a movement across America in hundreds of communities where 
veterans and military families return every day.
We re-established our partnership with HOH in 2019 with the goal of placing 
fellows in temporary assignments in our domestic plants and corporate 
locations.  
Campus Recruiting
We have established undergraduate and MBA Marketing internship programs. 
Our interns and co-ops gain hands-on experience and test their abilities. 
They work on real-life projects, get exposure to senior leaders across the 
organization and participate in a multitude of learning events focused on 
building their business acumen, relationship building and communication skills.
The opportunities are in our Ewing, NJ headquarters and our Global R&D 
center in Princeton, NJ. We offer three month internships, running from May to 
August; and six to eight month co-ops running throughout the year.
Workplace Flexibility (WPF)
One pillar of our 2020 strategy was to create a work environment where 
people matter and love to work. We know WPF has proven to increase 
employee engagement, improve business results and thereby our competitive 
advantage.  WPF takes many forms and is not one size fits all, so our leaders 
evaluate the various roles in their departments, and in the spirit of what’s 
possible, figure out how to best support flexibility in their respective areas.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
41Celebrating Earth Week & America Recycles Day   
Our employees celebrated Earth Week and America Recycles Day this year with several 
activities focused on sustainability. We hosted information booths for our employees 
to learn about preservation from organizations, such as, Arbor Day Foundation, 
T erraCycle, Sustainable Princeton, and the Conserve Wildlife Foundation of NJ.  We also 
held a styrofoam recycling drive for America Recycles day that collected over 330 cubic 
feet of rigid foam forms and packing material. We will be holding a second drive in 2020. 
The foam will be processed by a local business and turned into picture frames.
In addition, several of our sites participated in their own  
community Earth Week activities:
• Madera (CA) planted native fruit trees on the property
• Vancouver (WA) partnered with a local organization to plant trees  
    in the community
•  Ridgefield (WA) and Mason City (IA) picked up trash in their respective  
local neighborhoods
•  Colonial Heights (VA) had a wildflower and sapling giveaway for employees,  
and also sponsored a gently used collection drive for a women’s shelter and a coat 
drive for a children’s organization
•  Old Fort (OH) set up a bee colony on the property, and gave every employee a 
garden shovel and wildflower seeds to help support the colony
During Earth Week in 2018, we planted a fruit tree orchard at our Princeton office to 
enhance our green space with several different varieties. In 2019, we expanded on the 
orchard, with additional efforts planned for 2020.
As part of Earth Week in 2018, we started adding water bottle filling stations in our 
corporate headquarters and R&D facility to help reduce single-use plastic bottle waste 
and promote re-use. Since their installation, over 217,000 plastic bottles have been 
saved through the use of these filling stations. 
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
42Employee Giving Fund
We feel strongly that, as a member of the communities where we operate, our 
success should be shared. T o that end, in 2005, we established the Church & Dwight 
Employee Giving Fund, Inc. (EGF), a workplace giving program that primarily 
supports charitable organizations in New Jersey and Eastern Pennsylvania, with 
recent expansion to Colorado for our employees at WATERPIK® as well as to our 
Wisconsin SPD location. Each year, we invite our employees to dedicate a portion 
of their paychecks to the EGF. The Company encourages employee donations by 
offering employees additional time off depending on their level of giving, and by 
matching all employee contributions dollar for dollar, with no cap.  
In the years since its inception, the EGF has become a 
cherished part of our culture, and has awarded nearly 
2,000 grants totaling nearly $13 million to charitable 
organizations throughout the areas where our 
employees live and work.  
Through our annual grant process in 2019, the EGF awarded over $1.2 million  
to 184 deserving organizations in a variety of areas, including animal rescue, 
disadvantaged youth, domestic violence, education, health, homelessness, hunger 
relief, military services, preservation of the environment, services for the elderly and 
programs for the arts. Employees are encouraged to sponsor applications for their 
favorite charities, and funding preference is given to those organizations with an 
employee sponsor.  
In addition to our annual grant process, the EGF coordinates workplace collection 
drives and fundraisers year-round, including a backpack drive, T oys for T ots, a candy 
collection for soldiers, and a clothing and plastic toy drive, while also supporting 
individual employee fundraising activities such as 5K charity races. 
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
43
HomeFront NJ, a local nonprofit that provides services for homeless youth and families 
in Central New Jersey, is one of EGF’s signature partners. Each year the EGF supports 
HomeFront NJ’s work through both grants and volunteerism. In 2019, we continued two 
annual traditions. Our employees served a holiday dinner to homeless families, and they also 
volunteered at HomeFront’s Camp Mercer – a summer day camp for homeless youth.  
The EGF also coordinated our 7th Annual Week of Service, providing a variety of 
opportunities for our employees to donate their time and give back directly to our 
surrounding communities.    This last year, nearly 500 employees participated in over 50 
events, donating over 1,500 hours to our partner organizations. We hosted our popular 
EGF Organization Showcase at our Ewing and Princeton headquarters, during which EGF 
grantees were invited to share information on their organizations and educate employees  
on more ways to get involved. 
EMPLOYEES DONATING HOURS DONATED
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019116288 300378459
38095210001484
704
505
471
129496EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
44Community Support Beyond the Employee 
Giving Fund
In addition to the work done through the EGF, we also support the local  
community in a variety of ways, including acting as a principle sponsor of 
the Princeton Half Marathon. This annual event benefits HiT ops, a local 
organization that helps adolescents increase their access to life-changing 
health information, and develop and improve decision-making skills at a 
time in their lives when they need it most.  
Workplace Safety & Health
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all  
employees and visitors to our facilities. This commitment is reflected in 
our Corporate Safety Policy.   The tenets of our Policy are evidenced in 
our Corporate Safety Program, which establishes guidelines for the safety 
programs at our global operations. These local safety programs are customized 
to comply with the applicable regulatory standards for that location.  All  
Church & Dwight employees fall under the scope of this Corporate Safety 
Program. For contractors performing work at our facilities, we utilize a 
Contractor Management Program to communicate our expectations and 
provide safety guidance.
We utilize third-party consultants to provide hazard identification and 
assessment services, such as industrial hygiene monitoring and hazard 
recognition training.  Employees are encouraged to report safety concerns  
to their supervisor, site safety manager, or through their respective employee 
safety committee. Within these committees, employee representatives of 
all levels can freely raise and discuss safety concerns for appropriate action 
without fear of reprisal.  
Our ongoing industrial hygiene monitoring initiatives allow us to identify 
potential health risks in the work environment and collect data on the efficacy 
of existing controls. We conduct studies on hazards such as occupational noise, 
airborne particulates and metal fumes. Each of our locations has a local clinical 
health partner where employees receive occupational health screening and 
diagnostic services as needed.
EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
45
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
DART Rate USA 1.6 1.7 1.2 1.2 1.1 0.9 0.8 0.4
DART Rate Global 1.7 1.6 1.2 1.3 1.1 0.8 0.8 0.5
BM Manufacturing 2.3 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.0
2016 2017 2018 2019
Recordable Rate USA 2.3 2.0 1.6 1.3
Recordable Rate Global 2.1 1.8 1.5 1.3
BM Manufacturing 3.6 3.5 3.5 3.5
1 The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics defines Benchmark Manufacturing as: food; beverage and tobacco product; textile mills; textile product mills; apparel; leather and applied product; wood product; paper; printing and related support activities; petroleum and coal 
products; chemical; plastics and rubber products; nonmetallic mineral product; primary metal; fabricated metal product; machinery; computer and electronic product; electrical equipment, appliance, and component; transportation equipment; furniture and related 
product; miscellaneous. Workplace Safety — Metrics
We use several metrics to evaluate our safety performance, of which “DART” rate and “recordable” rate serve as the 
historical performance indicators. The DART rate is a term indicating the number of accidents resulting in an injury with 
Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred from normal job duties and normalized to hours worked. The recordable rate is a 
regulatory term indicating accidents of a severity beyond first aid, which must be recorded and reported. Both declining 
DART and recordable rates are favorable and indicate that our workers are experiencing fewer accidents per time on the job. 
The most common employee injuries recorded during 2019 include low severity incidents such as body motion injuries (muscle 
sprains/strains) and slips/trips/falls.
While there were zero employee fatalities in 2019, we did experience a contractor fatality at one of our sites. While this incident 
occurred on Church & Dwight property, this was a subcontractor performing work under the authority of a contractor on-site. 
Church & Dwight complied fully with the resulting OSHA investigation. 
As noted in the charts below, our DART and recordable rates, and associated accidents for our global operations, continue a 
favorable downward trend and remain well below the relevant industry benchmark (BM Manufacturing)1. Over the last six  
years, we have reduced the accident rate by half during a time of significant growth for the Company. This has been 
supported by our domestic sites experiencing a 52% reduction in overall DART cases, and a 17% reduction  in 
recordable injuries. EMPLOYEES & 
COMMUNITIES
46
CLICK HERE!2019 Safety Recognition for Church & Dwight Plants
Zero DART Cases Zero Recordable Incidents
Ewing, New Jersey Colonial Heights, Virginia
Fort Collins, Colorado Madera, California
Green River, Wyoming Oskaloosa, Iowa
Mason City, Iowa Waukesha, Wisconsin
Princeton, New Jersey Levallois, France
Victorville, California Mexico City, Mexico
Mississauga, Canada
Frenchs Forest, Australia
Guangzhou, China
 
Inquiries / Inspections Citations Penalties
13 2* $18,149.50*
 Workplace Safety Training
We believe that training in all aspects of workplace safety is a priority and a key component of the company’s program to  
prevent accidents and ill health. As outlined in the Corporate Safety Program, sites conduct training based on the hazards present  
in their work areas. We provide a comprehensive education program for all employees, including training in safe work practices,  
chemical awareness (on both general and site-specific  chemical hazards), personal protective equipment, safe machine operation  
and many other important topics.
Workplace Safety Audits  
Through our corporate safety department, we implement a safety auditing program for adherence to local, state and federal safety 
standards and regulations. These audits are conducted annually for global operations by third-party consultants enforcing a rigorous 
assessment of regulatory standards, internal procedures and program performance. Audit assessments and inspections are scored  
and are currently indicating high levels of compliance in our operations. The auditing program confirms the Company’s commitment  
to best management practices and principles. We continually increase the rigor and level of scrutiny to drive continuous  
improvement in our operations.
Safety-Related Regulatory Action  
Like all other companies, we are subject to regulatory inspection and review. In 2019, we received a total of 13 regulatory inquiries 
(letters, phone calls, planned and unplanned visits) to our global operations sites. From these 13 regulatory inquiries, two regulatory 
violations/findings were issued.
*Originally, 3 regulatory violations/findings were issued with a higher penalty, but this was  reduced during informal conferences with regulatory agencies.
Green River PlantResponsible
Sourcing
COMMITTED  
TO IMPROVING  
our Suppliers’ Environmental,  
Social and Ethical Practices
Achieve 90% targeted at risk supplier  
participation in our global responsible  
sourcing program by end of 2020.
Source 100% of palm oil-based ingredients  
from RSPO certified mass balance material  
by the end of 2025.
Purchase 97% of palm oil ingredients  
traceable to mills. We are committed  
to managing our operations in a  
responsible and sustainable manner.
47RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGBy upholding high ethical standards, continually evaluating our environmental 
impact, creating a safe workplace, and vigilantly maintaining our commitment 
to responsible sourcing, we have held our position as a trusted provider of 
household, personal care and specialty products for over 170 years.  
Our supply chain is a significant part of our business, and more than half of our employees support its day- 
to-day operations. We source from numerous suppliers, the majority of which are located in North America.  
All of our employees and suppliers are expected to comply with our Global Operations Guiding Principles 
(Principles) . These Principles address business ethics and compliance, fair labor conditions, health and safety, 
and environmental protection, and are based on internationally recognized human rights and labor standards, 
including: the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights; the International Labor Organization’s 1998 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; and the Labor Principles of the United Nations Global 
Compact. The Principles are also substantially aligned with the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code, the California 
Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015. The Principles are included 
in our agreements with many of our suppliers.   
In 2019, we continued to expand our Responsible Sourcing Program reflecting our commitment to internationally 
recognized industry standards for social and environmental business practices. We joined Aim-Progress, a forum 
of manufacturers and suppliers that promotes responsible sourcing practices, to help benchmark and provide 
industry guidance in support of our responsible sourcing journey. We engaged an independent social audit firm 
to perform responsible sourcing audits of our targeted highest risk suppliers. We define an “At Risk” supplier as a 
factory in a high risk geography which may include the region of eastern and southeastern Asia and require their 
participation in our program. The audited sites included raw material and component suppliers, and contract 
manufacturers, to ensure their compliance with the Principals.  
We support the Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015.   
We conducted risk-based supplier audits against ISO Quality Standards and Food Safety Standards. Audits 
 are conducted by our Quality Department and supplemented, as needed, by independent third parties. 
Suppliers found to be in violation of our Principles are subject to corrective actions, which may include follow  
up audits and termination of business. We have a training program for applicable employees and management  
that reinforces the Principles. This program supplements our Code of Conduct training that applies to all 
employees and directors, and requires compliance with applicable laws, including those prohibiting slavery  
and human trafficking. Any violation of applicable laws, our Code of Conduct or our Principles by a Church & 
Dwight employee or supplier may result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment or  
business relationship.
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING
48Collectible bird, fish, animal and wildflower 
cards were placed in boxes of baking soda 
starting in 1888 with the message “For The 
Good Of Us All, Do Not Destroy the Birds. ”Responsible Sourcing — Palm Oil 
While Church & Dwight does not directly buy or use palm oil or palm kernel 
oil in our products, some of our products – including animal feed, liquid 
laundry detergents, gummy vitamins, oral care and feminine care products 
– incorporate palm oil derivatives. Although our use of palm oil derivatives 
is relatively low, we  recognize the palm oil industry has a significant impact 
on biodiversity, climate change, people and communities. Accordingly, we 
strive to responsibly source palm oil derivatives in a manner that does not 
contribute to deforestation of high conservation value, high carbon stock 
forest and peatlands, or exploitation of people and local communities. In 2019, 
we continued our membership with the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil 
(RSPO) and offset 100% of our palm oil-based ingredient purchases, primarily 
through purchase of RSPO book & claim credits. 
In 2019, we purchased virtually all of our approximately 33,000 tons of palm 
oil derivatives through one RSPO member supplier, and over 40% of our core 
business palm derivative volume was purchased in mass balance material.  
As of December 31, 2019, approximately 97% of our palm oil derivative 
volume received from that supplier was independently verified as traceable 
back to the mills, according to our primary supplier’s supply chain mapping. 
That supplier has also represented to us that all such palm oil derivatives 
have been produced in conformance with its "No Deforestation, No Peat, No 
Exploitation Policy. " 
Due to the complexity of the palm oil derivative supply chain, the process 
of achieving traceability involves a number of companies at many tiers. In 
addition to full traceability to mills, we support and encourage suppliers to 
achieve as much traceability to the plantations as possible and to comply  
with RSPO standards as they evolve.
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING
49Beyond traceability, our more comprehensive Palm Oil Sustainable Sourcing Commitment expands  
the scope of our responsibility to help address the following specific sourcing practices: 
Ending our contributions to deforestation by conserving and protecting primary and  
secondary forests, High Carbon Stock1 and High Conservation Value2 forests  
across all supplier landholdings
Ending new development on peatlands, regardless of depth
 Leveraging best management practices3 for existing palm oil plantations on peat soils
Prohibiting the use of fire for preparation or clearing of land areas
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and existing operations 
Complying with existing RSPO Principles and Criteria or other equivalent standards
 Ending any exploitation of the rights of indigenous peoples and local communities
T o accomplish these goals, we require our primary supplier to meet or exceed the standards set forth in its No 
Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation Policy, provide quarterly reports regarding its supply chain mapping, 
provide progress reports against the commitments set forth in its policy, and meet or exceed RSPO standards for 
RSPO certification. From time to time we may also further investigate various other approaches and tools that may 
be available to help us assess our supply chain.
1. High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests as defined at http://highcarbonstock.org by the HCS Steering Group
2. High Conservation Value (HCV) as defined by the HCV network: https://www.hcvnetwork.org/about-hcvf/the-sixhigh-conservation-values. 
3. Best management practices covered by the “RSPO Manual on Best Management Practices (BMPs) for existing oil palm cultivation  on peat. ”
Conflict Minerals
We are committed to ensuring  that our products do not contain conflict minerals that have funded armed 
groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country. Any supplier found to be in violation 
of our policies is subject to corrective action, which may include termination of business.
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING
50MINIMIZE 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT  
of Our Global Operations
  Achieve carbon neutral status for our 
global operations by end of 2025. 
  Reduce global process water and/or 
wastewater by 25% by the end of 2022  
using 2016 as baseline.
  Achieve global operations solid waste 
recycling rate of 75% by the end of 2020.Environment
51 ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENTManaging for Environmental Sustainability  
It is essential for us to make great products and to produce them in facilities with robust environmental 
performance. We work toward this high-performance culture by adhering to well established principles 
defined in the Corporate Environmental Policy.  This policy guides our environmental practices and 
expectations, and they are implemented through the following approach:
Accountability – Each of our facilities has a designated on-site environmental coordinator 
responsible for monitoring and managing environmental issues affecting their facility.  
These coordinators are closely networked to enable peer mentorship and best practice  
sharing across facilities.
Audits and Inspections – Each of our facilities undergoes a third-party conducted  
environmental audit every other year. All facilities are subject to periodic, unannounced 
inspections by federal, state and local environmental agencies. 
Awareness – We offer regular training for all our manufacturing employees to promote 
awareness of environmental practices and procedures. This includes an annual Environmental  
and Safety Conference for facility environmental and safety coordinators. 
Awards – Each year we recognize one of our global operations for exemplary environmental 
safety and sustainability performance. An award is presented to a representative of the operation 
at a T own Hall event in Princeton, New Jersey. 
Environmental Performance
Our growing business provides the challenge of managing its environmental footprint and minimizing impacts  
of our expanding operations. We rely upon our employees’ strong implementation of our environmental and  
sustainability initiatives to achieve our performance goals. We regularly evaluate our primary impact metrics  
(regulatory compliance, energy use, water use and waste generation) and take necessary actions across  
the company to optimize our operations.
ENVIRONMENT
52ENVIRONMENT
532019 Citations & Penalties / Surcharges
All facilities undergo periodic, unannounced inspections by federal, state, and local environmental 
agencies. In 2019, there were 21 such inspections conducted at our operations, which resulted in six 
minor citations. Two additional citations were received for self-reported excursions of wastewater 
permit limits. The citations were for a combination of administrative or record keeping issues, air  
permit updates, wastewater discharge permit excursions, or accidental releases to sewer (slug 
discharges). Corrective actions were identified and either immediately implemented or corrective 
action plans developed and implemented for all instances. T otal penalties in the amount of $6,500  
USD were assessed and paid by Church & Dwight for the citations received.  
Citations
Spills / Releases to the Environment
We monitor and report on spills and releases to the environment. This includes our Colonial Heights, 
VA plant, which, as a result of the manufacturing process, releases ammonia to the atmosphere  
on a consistent basis each year and in compliance with air pollution control regulations. 
We had three reportable accidental releases in 2019. Two releases were accidental releases  
to sewer:  one, an excess dye discharge, and the other, an accidental soap product discharge.   
The third was related to an acid leak during maintenance that resulted in a suspect vapor  
cloud and building evacuation.  
The above releases were promptly reported to the appropriate environmental regulatory authority. 
Immediate response and clean up actions were taken, and corrective measures were designed and 
put in place to prevent such releases in the future. No injuries or immediate adverse impacts to public 
health or the environment occurred due to the releases. Less than $35,000 in total direct response  
and corrective action costs were incurred because of the releases.Media T otal PenaltiesInspection Related 
Citations Citations  
Self-Reported
Wastewater $0 4 2
Air $6,500 2 0
ENVIRONMENT
54Remediation
In 2019, there was limited activity regarding environmental remediation company-wide, with the most significant 
activity occurring with the closure and remediation activity at the Company’s wholly owned Brazil subsidiary 
Química Geral do Nordeste Ltd. (QGN). The closure and remediation activities are summarized below. 
QGN, Feira de Santana, Brazil 
There are ongoing remediation efforts at the closed facility of QGN in Brazil. The remediation efforts include  
the control and capture of contaminated groundwater through an interceptor trench drainage system, as well  
as the installation of additional monitoring wells for the site characterization. T otal spend in 2019 was  
approximately $100,000.   
QGN, Itapura, Brazil 
The mining operations that supported the inorganic salt manufacturing operation for QGN is undergoing closure 
activity. The remediation efforts in 2019 are primarily the grading and re-vegetation of the slopes of the surface 
mine. T otal spend in 2019 was approximately $125,000.   
Performance Goals
In 2017, we established environmental goals with respect to greenhouse gas (GHG)  
emissions, water reductions and solid waste recycling. Our GHG goal is to be carbon neutral  
by the end of 2025. We strive to achieve this with the following strategy:    
   
Minimize our overall consumption of energy from our operations and 
transportation, while still growing as a company.
Continue the successful recycling efforts at all operations.
Support the generation of clean green energy.
Partner with organizations, such as the Arbor Day Foundation, to offset  
our GHG emissions.REDUCE:  
RECYCLE:  
RENEW:   
REPLENISH:ENVIRONMENT
55
During 2019, we continued to assess our facilities for opportunities to reduce impacts to the environment 
through reductions in energy usage, water usage and waste generation. As a growing company, our absolute use 
in terms of total energy, total water and total waste would be expected to increase. But we work to reduce our 
overall impact and meet our stated goal through improved energy monitoring, LED lighting, boiler conversions 
and steam efficiency improvements; line efficiency assessments and modifications to increase yield and decrease 
waste; adding product recovery loops; changing waste handling and treatment procedures; and eliminating once-
through cooling water uses.
Global Lean Implementation
It was a year ago when we first announced our plans to embark on a Lean Journey at C&D. Since then we have 
made progress in all our manufacturing sites with 164 Lean events executed with the participation of 1,205 of our 
people last year! Cost savings from these activities were $3.7MM in 2019 and we have already identified $4.4MM 
for 2020. Our goal for 2020 is $6.4MM.
Why are we implementing Lean Manufacturing?
Lean Manufacturing is a methodology and business philosophy which has proven highly successful during the last 
few decades in multiple industries around the globe. Now more than ever before, speed and operational efficiency 
are the determining factors for success in the volatile, fast-paced world of ours.
Church & Dwight’s key objectives for Lean are:
1. Minimize waste 
2.  Improve equipment efficiency, optimize assets and defer capital requirements –  
therefore increasing the utilization of our assets
3.  Engage our workforce and develop their skills so they can execute effectively  
against our improvement efforts
The early LEAN projects in our plants have improved safety, quality, line performance, change-over setup  
times, yield and material loss reduction.
In 2020, Lean efforts will help us to further reduce material losses in our operations and also improve other  
key metrics in safety and sustainability by applying proven continuous improvement methods. 
Reduce
CLICK HERE!ENVIRONMENT
56Every Little Bit Helps the Planet
Our SPD-Wisconsin location has been working on innovative ways to 
increase our recycling and decrease our landfill waste. In 2019 we started 
participating in recycling programs with our scientific vendors to send back 
Styrofoam boxes to New England Biolabs and Sigma, as well as, plasticware 
recycling to Falcon/Corning. We now collect plastic film for recycling, and 
we have switched suppliers for some of our scientific consumables to more 
eco-conscious companies. These are small steps, but they are easy, good for 
the planet, and have even saved us money.
We have a very robust recycling program across our global operations.   
In 2019 we recycled 13,664 tons of waste that would have been destined 
for disposal facilities, such as landfills. We recycled approximately 69% of 
the solid waste generated by our global operations, excluding chemical or 
hazardous wastes. Despite the challenging recycling market in 2019, our 
overall recycling volume increased by nearly 18% over 2018. In 2019, the 
annual environmental benefits from the paper/cardboard recycling efforts  
alone were equivalent to saving:    
• 134,000 Mature Trees 
• 55 Million Gallons of Water 
• 23,400 Cubic Yards of Landfill Space 
• 33 Million Kilowatts of EnergyRecycleENVIRONMENT
57Use of CHEP Pallets in Our Operations
  
In 2016 we entered agreements to support and purchase electricity sourced from sustainable sources (primarily wind 
energy) for approximately 50% of our anticipated 2017 electricity usage. Buying green energy through Renewable 
Energy Credits (RECs) reduces carbon dioxide emissions by promoting electricity generation from renewable resources 
instead of conventional fuels. In 2019, we continued our commitment to offset 100% of electricity use for company 
operations by purchasing power from sustainable sources. We monitor our electricity use on an annual basis and secure 
forward-looking RECs to offset our anticipated tons of CO2e for the following year. Beginning in 2020, our renewable 
energy strategy will be expanded to consider a mix of RECs, Direct Power Purchase Agreements, Virtual Power 
Purchase Agreements, and onsite green energy generation.
These efforts and policies do not go unnoticed. We were recognized in 2019 for EPA green power leadership,  
and we were once again ranked on the EPA’s national top 100 list of green power users through the EPA Green  
Power Partner program.  
Inherently Sustainable Solutions for Your Business  
Prepared exclusively for Church & Dwight Co., Inc.
Over the last 12 months, we have positively impacted the environment through the use of CHEP's circular, reusable pallets and other  
sustainable solutions resulting in reduced carbon and waste.
Current Sustainability Savings
T otal Pallet Volume 1,275,493
% of Timber Certified 99%lbs of Solid Waste Saved | 718,739
lbs of CO2e | 542,339
That's the equivalent of planting 6,373  
trees and growing them 10 years
Reutilization
Transport  
Efficiencies
Resource  
Efficiencies
Sustainable  
Efficiencies• Continuous reuse of pallets minimizes resources
• Pooling drastically reduces water in our supply chain
• Density of our network allows shorter transportation
• Results in a reduction of CO2 in our supply chain
• Certified renewble resource from sustainable sources
• 100% recyclable back into new pallets & other uses
• Using our other sustainable solutions to further reduce  
    our impact on the enviroment
Renew ENVIRONMENT
58
In 2016 we partnered with The Arbor Day Foundation® to offset carbon dioxide emissions 
through the planting of trees and protecting existing forests.  Our partnership offsets the carbon 
dioxide emissions generated from the use of fossil fuels (primarily natural gas) from our operations and other 
emissions, such as transportation emissions. In 2019, we increased our commitment to this partnership for 
verifiable emissions reduction credits to offset approximately 41% of the total carbon dioxide emissions at 
our operations that are not offset by the green electricity purchase strategy. We continue to increase our 
partnership with The Arbor Day Foundation®.
Founded in 1972, the Arbor Day Foundation® has grown to become the largest nonprofit membership 
organization dedicated to planting trees, with more than one million members, supporters and partners. 
• Improving Air Quality • Ensuring Water Quality • Slowing Climate Change  
• Combating Deforestation • Preventing Species Loss  
• Easing Poverty And Hunger • Feeding the Human Soul
With a high priority on operating in a responsible and respectful manner, Church & Dwight 
maintains six pillars of sustainability, including the Environment. In partnership with the Arbor Day 
Foundation,® Church & Dwight is minimizing the impact of its global operations through offsetting 
carbon emissions with trees. On the path to becoming a carbon-neutral company by 2025, the 
growing organization’s energy efficiency efforts needed to be complemented by offsetting 
emissions through renewable energy credits and reforestation carbon credits. Offsetting carbon 
through the Arbor Day Foundation® connected deeply to Church & Dwight’s heritage of supporting 
wildlife conservations efforts. "
Dan Lambe  
President“During the last 47 years, more than 300 million Arbor Day Foundation® trees have been planted 
in neighborhoods, communities, cities, and forests throughout the world. With a mission of 
inspiring people to plant, nurture, and celebrate trees, the Foundation is a recognized worldwide 
leader in creating an understanding that trees are a solution to many of the global issues we face 
today including:ReplenishENVIRONMENT
59
Energy 
Our total energy consumption associated with manufacturing was 
reduced approximately 5% in 2019 as compared to 2018. Normalized 
total energy (GJ/MM lb shipped) was also down, approximately 6%. 
Implementation of several energy reduction projects has enabled us 
to minimize increases in our absolute natural gas and electricity use. 
Some examples are highlighted below. These efforts to curb energy 
usage while continuing to grow are truly global in scale, and exemplify 
the incredible commitment of Church & Dwight across its operations.
Improved Lighting 
Several LED lighting projects were implemented across the 
organization in 2019. Many sites are implementing their second or 
third phase of lighting conversions. These conversions contributed  
to the 2.3 million KWH in electricity savings we realized in 2019.   
We expect most Church & Dwight facilities to have completed full LED 
lighting conversions by the end of 2020.
Boiler Management in Washington
Our Vancouver, Washington plant completed the second phase of a 
steam trap and boiler efficiency project in 2019 saving an estimated 
153,000 US therms of natural gas and 615,000 gallons of water.
Compressed Air Upgrades in Virginia
Our Colonial Heights, Virginia plant installed smaller, various sized air 
compressors. The smaller, varied compressors were then sequenced 
to cascade up or down based on demand instead of constantly running 
a larger unit. The plant expects an annualized savings of 700,000 KWH 
from the project.
2017318 309291300350
250
200
2018 2019150
100
50
0Normalized Energy Usage
(GJ Energy/MM ib Shipped)ENVIRONMENT
60Greenhouse Gases
GHG emissions are associated with all aspects of our supply chain and product use. Raw material production, transportation 
to point of manufacture, product manufacture, product distribution and product use all have an  
impact. We define our GHG emissions inventory to include those emissions over which we have direct control.  
This includes Scope 1 direct emissions from Church & Dwight operated facilities, Scope 2 indirect emissions from Church & 
Dwight operated facilities (primarily electric and steam purchases), and Scope 3 emissions associated with transport of our 
finished products to our first point of customer contact (in US and Canada), estimated GHG from contract manufacturers and 
packagers, as well as corporate business air travel. Other Scope 3 emissions related to supply chain, including product transport to 
customers outside the US or Canada, are not currently monitored or measured for this report due to the absence of reliable processes or 
reliable data for operations outside our direct control. We will continue to evaluate options to monitor and measure other Scope 3 aspects of 
our supply chain and consider how they might be included in the future.
Our absolute GHG emissions were down approximately 3% in 2019 over 2018. Global GHG emissions from manufacturing operations were down 1% in 
2019 over 2018 while Scope 3 emissions were down nearly 5% in 2019. 
Normalized total GHG emissions to million pounds of product shipped were reduced by 5% in 2019. The chart below provides the net and normalized GHG emissions. 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG)*
2017 2018 2019
GHG Emissions - Manufacturing Operations 
Scopes 1 and 2 (MT CO2e) 186,809 187,564 186,518
GHG Emissions - Transportation Operations  
Scope 3 (MT CO2e)223,984 240,299 228,865
GHG Emissions - Combined Operations 
(MT of CO2e)410,792 427,863 415,383
GHG Intensity  
(MTs of CO2e /MM pounds of product shipped)76.88 77.09 73.51
* Note that the above GHG figures have been adjusted compared to previously reported figures to accommodate revised and updated conversion factors associated with our new sustainability platform, an historic propane 
calculation error, and minor reporting errors in 2018.  The net result is an increase in the reported GHG values.
For the 2019 energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) data, we contracted with an independent third party, ERM CVS, to evaluate and assure that our energy data 
collection process and emissions calculations are rigorous, inclusive and accurate. The resulting verification statement is not available for the publication of this 
report but will be included with our annual CDP GHG report filing.ENVIRONMENT
61Church & Dwight has established a goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2025. Carbon 
emissions associated with electricity use are currently 100% offset by RECs, while our 
other Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions are partially offset by certified forestry credits 
through the Arbor Day Foundation®. Our 2018 goal was to keep manufacturing operations 
carbon neutral compared to 2018 to minimize the offsets required. In 2019 we had a  
1% decrease in total GHG emissions from operations (combined Scope 1 + Scope 2).  
We achieved this goal in our manufacturing operation through various energy reduction 
programs and projects. While additional work is needed to achieve reductions in our 
transportation operation emissions, in 2019 we saw benefits from increased use of 
intermodal transport combined with opening of another distribution center in the 
southeast United States that has reduced total truck miles. In 2019 through electric power 
RECs and certified carbon forestry credits, Church & Dwight offset a total of 64% of our 
combined Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions. This offset calculation is based  
on the revised and updated 2019 GHG values as reported above. 
TRANSPORTATION RELATED IMPROVEMENTS  
TO REDUCE GHG EMISSIONS IN 2019 INCLUDED:
Overall intermodal volume increased 21% in 2019 compared 
to prior year. The term intermodal means moving our 
products by a combination of truck and rail service.
• Moving freight by rail instead of by truck lowers greenhouse gas emissions  
    by 75 percent and reduces highway congestion
• A single train can take as many as 280 trucks off the highway
Average weight per stock transfer order shipments increased  
by over 500 lbs. in 2019 compared to prior year.
• This increase in weights equated to removing over 600 trucks from the roadENVIRONMENT
62Church & Dwight partners with only top performing carriers in the transportation industry — Knight, Swift, 
Hub, US Xpress, Schneider, etc. T op performers, such as these, recognize the importance of sustainability, 
and continue to demonstrate initiatives that reduce fuel consumption which include:
   2019 Criteria Air Pollutant Emissions (%)
7.8% 6.2%
6.6%
10.5%
68.4%Particular Matter
Ozone (VOCs)
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
Sulfur Oxides (Sox)
Other Air Emissions
Hazardous Air Pollutants
Carbon Monoxide
0.1%0.4%In addition to GHG emissions, some of our facilities 
report on specific air emissions as required by 
a facility air permit. The accompanying chart 
represents the breakdown of Criteria Air Pollutant 
emissions as defined by the USEPA for those 
facilities that are required to report air emissions. 
In 2019, our total air emissions of criteria pollutants 
were less than 250 tons with approximately 68%  
being particulates.     Carriers continually turning over and updating a large portion of their fleet to ensure truck engines are meeting the  
  latest EPA requirements.
    A modernized fleet provides more than fuel-efficient engines. It ensures the latest in truck design and aerodynamic additions to the   
  tractor and trailer. These features combine to reduce drag and save fuel.
Other actions taken by our carriers include slower speeds via governors on trucks (the slower the truck travels, the less fuel it consumes) and no-idle 
heating/cooling systems, which enable engine-off cab temperature adjustment for drivers on breaks.Engines:
Aerodynamic 
Features:ENVIRONMENT
63
Water
Water conservation and management is a particularly high priority for  
us because water is a main ingredient in several of our products.   
We established our 2022 water reduction goal in acknowledgement of  
our critical use of water. The majority of our water use is as a product 
ingredient (57%). A portion of our water is also used for cooling (4%), 
cleaning or other process operations (32%), or sanitary use (7%), and 
then returned to the environment. Water quality and quantity are critical 
aspects of our operation. Water supply issues are often part of our business 
interruption risk planning and exercises. As a result of our attention to water 
issues, we have not experienced any business disruptions related to water 
availability or quality.  
The World Resources Institute (WRI) water risk evaluation identifies areas 
with higher exposure to water-related risks, and is an aggregated measure 
of all selected indicators from the physical quantity, quality and regulatory & 
reputational risk categories. None of our facilities are in areas classified with 
extremely high water-stress risk as identified by the WRI. Two of our North 
American locations are in high water-stress risk areas while the majority 
of others are in medium to high water-stress risk areas. Church & Dwight 
locations with elevated water risk tend to be at risk for water quality issues 
based on human development/demand and limited water recharge capacity, 
as defined by WRI. We periodically assess our water risk through public 
water and ground water supply assessments, primarily focused on our high 
volume or critical water quality locations.WRI Water Risk Classifications for  
Church & Dwight Locations 2019
Extremely High Risk (4-5)
High Risk (3-4)
Medium to High Risk (2-3)Low to Medium Risk (1-2)
Low Risk (0-1)
67%11%6% 0%
17%ENVIRONMENT
64T otal Water (Millions Gallons)
600
500
400
300
200
100
0Total Water Intake 
(MM gal)
Total Discharged  
(MM gal)Net Consumption  
(MM gal)
2016 2017 2018 2019499 521 507 509
282 288 292 292
217 232 215 217Approximately 87% of our water intake is from public water supply systems. The remaining 
13% is from groundwater wells on our facilities. We routinely interact with our public water 
supply purveyors to evaluate our incoming water quality and quantity to assure it meets drinking 
water quality standards and that available water capacity is able to meet company needs. Well 
water used is regularly tested to verify it also meets our quality standards. Even with incoming 
water meeting drinking water quality standards, most of our locations engage in tertiary water 
treatment to provide the highest quality necessary for our production operations.
During 2019, our operations required nearly 509 million gallons of water intake, up 2 million 
gallons from 2018. T otal water discharged was also increased by approximately 2 million 
gallons compared to 2018. T otal water intake was up approximately 2.5% in 2019, while net 
consumption was essentially flat.  
We define net water consumption as:  
Net Consumption(gal) = T otal water intake(gal) – T otal Water discharges/disposals (gal)ENVIRONMENT
65Despite the increased total water intake, we remain committed to reducing 
water use by 25% by the end of 2022 compared to our 2016 baseline. We 
continue efforts to identify and implement specific projects related to water 
conservation.  Projects include eliminating single pass through cooling uses, 
optimizing water reclaim/recycling systems, and minimizing evaporative 
losses and improving efficiency in our water handling and treatment 
equipment, especially at our most water intensive plants.
The chart below provides the normalized water intake and water 
consumption for 2016 through 2019. Both continue to decline when 
normalized to millions of pounds of product shipped.
Normalized Water Use
(Thousand gallon/MM lb shipped)
150
100
50
0
Intake/MM lb shipped Consumed/MM lb shipped2016 2017 2018 201955 54 53 5298 97 91 90
ENVIRONMENT
66Approximately 99% of our wastewater is discharged to local municipal 
wastewater treatment plants, transported offsite for appropriate disposal, 
or treated onsite prior to discharge. The remaining 1% is direct discharge 
of non-contact cooling water or clean fire system water. We consume 
approximately 58% of the water we take in and discharge 42% back to 
the environment. The consumption estimate includes evaporative losses. 
Approximately 84% of our wastewater is either discharged directly to a 
public treatment works for further treatment prior to discharge, hauled to 
an offsite facility for further treatment prior to discharge, or discharged 
to evaporation ponds with no direct discharge. Fourteen percent of our 
wastewater is treated on site prior to direct discharge to a local surface 
water. One percent is sanitary wastewater discharged to the subsurface via on site septic treatment systems, and 1% is “clean” water (e.g. irrigation 
or sprinkler system drainage) discharged directly to the ground. Process 
wastewaters are discharged under permits issued by the appropriate local 
jurisdiction and treatment authorities. At about one quarter of our locations 
specific wastewater streams, such as high strength BOD or surfactant 
streams, are segregated, collected, and transported  to an appropriate  
off-site treatment facility when the local wastewater authority is unable to 
receive the discharges. Priority wastewater treatment (or pre-treatment) of 
our wastewaters varies by site, operation and local requirements, but may 
include pH adjustment, solids removal, metals removal (e.g. zinc) and organics 
reduction. Our discharges do not significantly affect water quality  
in any receiving water bodies. 
2019 Wastewater Disposition
Discharge to Sewer (POTW)
Discharge to Surface Water  
with Treatment
Discharge to Surface Water  
No Treatment
Discharge to Ground Water  
with Treatment
Discharge to Ground Water  
No  Treatment
Discharge to Other
60%23%
14%1%
1%
0%ENVIRONMENT
67Several of our facilities made notable progress toward our water 
management goals, and we would like to recognize them here.    
Gold Awards in Colonial Heights, Virginia
The Colonial Heights facility received the Gold Award from Chesterfield County 
for zero discharge violations or warnings during the 2018-2019 monitoring 
periods. This is the 4th consecutive Gold Award received by the Colonial Heights 
facility from Chesterfield County Utilities Department.
Dual Reverse Osmosis Systems in Ohio
Our Old Fort, Ohio plant installed a second Reverse Osmosis (RO) unit in a series 
to recover a portion of the reverse osmosis system reject. The second unit is 
expected to reduce the wastewater from the RO process by nearly 65%. 
Water Separation in Pennsylvania
Our York, Pennsylvania plant initiated a project to separate clean sources of 
process wastewater (steam condensate and other non-contact flows) from 
product impacted wastewater. This project eliminated 38% of the wastewater 
flow collected for off site disposal because the separated water can be put to 
sewer. In 2020 the plant is developing projects to evaluate and reclaim this 
separated water for other site uses.   
Old Fort Plant
Green River PlantENVIRONMENT
68Waste
In 2019, our total waste generation was reduced by 6.5% 
over the prior year. Reductions in general trash, trucked wastewater, 
and non-hazardous process waste volume were offset by increases in 
hazardous waste and total recycle, for a net decrease of approximately 
4,200 tons. Wastewater transported offsite, which cannot be sent to a 
public treatment works at the manufacturing location, represents the 
largest percentage of the waste by weight, at 41%. Trucked wastewater 
also represented the largest decrease year over year, contributing to our 
net waste decline in 2019.
T otal recycle weight in 2019 was up nearly 18%, primarily due to 
recycling/beneficial reuse of waste and wastewater from our  
gummy vitamin operations as animal feed supplement. Excluding  
this new recycle stream our base recycling was up 4% driven  
primarily by increased paper/corrugate (+485 tons) and plastic  
(+239 tons) recycling.  
Hazardous waste generation increased in 2019 by 220 tons and continues 
to represents less than 2% of all waste generated. Most of our facilities are 
considered small quantity generators of hazardous waste. No hazardous 
wastes are treated onsite. All hazardous wastes are transported offsite by 
properly licensed vendors to appropriate treatment storage or disposal 
sites. All solid waste is transported offsite and properly disposed at 
licensed facilities, except for our facility in Wyoming, which maintains an 
onsite non-hazardous waste landfill. Church & Dwight has no international 
shipments of hazardous or non-hazardous wastes.  
The adjoining charts provide a comparison of the offsite waste disposal 
methods utilized in 2019, and normalized waste generation quantities  
for the last three years. 2019 Waste by Fate (%)
WW TreatmentRecycle/Reuse
Energy Recovery
CompostIncineration
Landfill
Other Disposal
7.47%0.46%0.03%
3.89%
1.44%
30.3%
Normalized Waste Values  
(T ons/MM lb shipped)
Total Waste Non-hazardous 
Solid WasteWW Trucked  
OffsiteRecycling Hazardous Waste General Trash14 
12 
10 
8 
6 
4 
2 
011.411.2
10.2
2.22.42.35.45.34.2
2.21.42.11.22.4
1.1
0.160.20
2019 2018 201756.4%
We continue to work toward our recycle rate goal of 75% for our combined recycle and general trash waste 
streams. In 2019 we achieved a 69% recycle rate for the company.  As with energy and water, we are continuously exploring ways to reduce waste  
as we increase production. Our operating plants regularly develop specific, targeted waste minimization projects. While these efforts are not always successful,  
the net results are reflected in the reduced general trash, non-hazardous process waste and hauled wastewater totals observed in 2019.  0.15ENVIRONMENT
69Some examples of waste minimization projects implemented in 2019 include:
Recycle Vendor Selections
A number of our facilities (Montreal, Canada, Old Fort, OH and others) have changed recycling 
vendors or worked directly with existing vendors to maximize the types and volumes of 
traditional materials they can recycle (corrugate, paper or plastics).  A number of our recycle 
vendors have been impacted by the recycling industry disruption caused by China changing 
 its stance on receiving mixed recycled material imports. By working with our local vendors  
and selecting vendors able to offer more recycling options, we have been able to continue  
our recycling efforts and, in 2019, increase the volumes of paper/corrugate/plastics recycled  
by nearly 9%. 
Completion of Product Recycle Loop in Harrisonville, MO
In 2019 our Harrisonville, MO plant completed installation of a product recovery loop to 
reclaim potentially wasted powdered laundry product. The project included working with 
various internal groups including quality, research & development, process development, and 
engineering to define the reclaim process and performance parameters as well as design and 
install the reclaim equipment. The process was validated in late 2019 and is expected to reduce 
product waste disposed by nearly 1/3 in 2020. 
Box Gobbler in Old Fort, OH
In 2019 our Old Fort, OH plant completed a project to reclaim tons of baking soda waste.  
The project involved refining an existing product reclaim system to better define reclaim 
parameters and meter reclaim product into the process. The reclaim takes rejected boxed 
baking soda (off weight, label issues, improper closure, etc.) and separates the box for 
cardboard recycling and the baking soda for reuse in non-FDA regulated products. The project 
has reduced overall line scrap by 9%. The plant is currently exploring extending the “gobbler” 
system to bagged product in 2020.
Beneficial Reuse in York, PA
Our York, PA plant fully implemented the beneficial reuse/recycling of gummy vitamin 
wastes to an animal feed supplement process. In 2019 the program was extended to include 
wastewater from the vitamin process. Over 470 tons of gummy waste was diverted from 
landfill to beneficial reuse, as well as more than 18,000 tons of wastewater.
We continue to look for opportunities to apply these and other promising 
programs across the company. 
DATA70Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017
ENVIRONMENTAL
T otal Energy Use Thousand GJ 1,647 1,713 1,697
Gas (Natural Gas + Propane) Thousand Cubic Feet 805,486 826,814 785,855
Electricity Thousand kWh 158,968 161,261 165,339
Fuel Oil/Gasoline Gallons 77,909 97,248 91,191
Purchased Steam T ons 72,365 84,493 90,462
Normalized Energy Use GJ/MM LBS SHP  291 308 318
Combined (Process and 
Transport) CO2eMetric T ons 415,383 427,863 410,793
Process  CO2e (Scope 1  
and Scope 2)Metric T ons 186,518 187,564 186,809
Transport CO2e (Scope 3) Metric T ons 228,865 240,299 223,984
Normalized Combined CO2e   Metric T ons CO2e / 
MM LBS SHP73.5 77.1 76.9
Global Net Water 
ConsumptionThousand Gallons 291,643 292,033 288,416
Global Water Intake 
(Withdrawals)Thousand Gallons 508,841 506,564 520,888
Global Water Effluent 
(Discharges)Thousand Gallons 217,198 214,531 232,472
Normalized Global  
Water IntakeThousand Gallons/MM  
LBS SHP90.0 91.3 97.5
T otal Waste Produced T ons 57,758 61,960 60,749
Hazardous Waste Produced T ons 1,130 910 828Sustainability Performance Data DATA71Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017
Non-hazardous Solid  
Waste ProducedT ons 19,211 20,041 19,332
Wastewater Trucked for 
Offsite DisposalT ons 23,745 29,444 29,672
Recycled Non-hazardous 
Waste ProducedT ons 13,673 11,565 11,474
Normalized Waste Produced T ons/MM LBS SHP 10.2 11.2 11.4
Environmental Penalties T otal $6,500 $22,500 $0
T otal Reported Releases T otal 4 3 5
Accidental Releases T otal 3 2 4
Continuous Releases T otal 1 1 1
SOCIAL
T otal Employees T otal 4,831 4,727 4,707
Employees – Domestic 
(Within U.S.)T otal  3,833 3,766 3,777
Employees – International 
(Outside of U.S.)T otal 998 961 930
T otal Female Employees Percent 40 41 40
Female Employees – 
Domestic (Within U.S.)Percent 39 39 38
Female Employees – 
International (Outside of U.S.)Percent 47 48 47
T otal Male Employees Percent 60 59 60
Male Employees – Domestic 
(Within U.S.)Percent 61 61 62
Male Employees – 
International (Outside of U.S.)Percent 53 52 53
Non-binary Employees T otal 0 1 Not Reported
Days Away, Restricted, or 
Transferred (DART) Rate 
(Global)Recordable Incidents/ 
100 FTE0.5 0.8 0.8DATA72Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017
ECONOMIC
Net Sales Billions $4.36 $4.15 $3.78
Consumer Domestic Sales Millions $3,302.6 $3,129.9 $2,854.9
Consumer International Sales Millions $756.3 $709.5 $621.1
Specialty Products Sales Millions $298.8 $306.5 $300.2About this Report
This 2019 Sustainability Report continues our commitment to transparently 
communicate our sustainability efforts. 
This Report reflects our performance for the year ended December 31, 2019, 
along with prior data and information on changes to our operations, plants 
and data collection process, where relevant. This Report also references 2020 
initiatives planned at the time of publishing the report. 
T o lead the collection of information and the report preparation process,  
we assembled a team representing Environmental, Health & Safety, Finance, 
Human Resources, Law, Marketing, Operations, Procurement and Research  
& Development. 
This report was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards, at the Core level.
We have addressed GRI’s four Reporting Principles in defining the scope and 
content of this Sustainability Report:
Stakeholder Inclusiveness – The report addresses those topics 
that are of greatest interest to a broad range of stakeholders.
Sustainability Context – We reference the key sustainability 
challenges that our company is facing, and how our actions and 
performance fit into the larger context; see for example our discussion 
of responsible sourcing and palm oil.
Materiality –  The report covers our significant economic, 
environmental and social impacts.
Completeness –  We provide information on our global operations, 
representing company-wide performance throughout 2019.Employment and Environmental, Health & Safety indicators include 
all our operated manufacturing and distribution facilities, our R&D 
Corporate T echnical Center and our corporate headquarters, with 
select smaller scale operations excluded. For more information on our 
company, joint ventures and subsidiaries worldwide, please see our 
2019 Annual Report on the Church & Dwight website (see link below).
We welcome input from stakeholders, including customers, 
consumers, shareholders, nonprofit organizations, neighbors  
and employees, who seek to help us improve our business  
and sustainability performance. Please send questions  
or comments about this Report to  
sustainability@churchdwight.com. For all other 
inquiries, please visit our website at  
www.churchdwight.com.  
DATA
73GRI Index
 GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-1 Name of organization Church & Dwight Co, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services About Church & Dwight
102-3 Location of headquarters Ewing, New Jersey, US
102-4 Location of operations About Church & Dwight
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form About Church & Dwight
102-6 Markets served About Church & Dwight
102-7 Scale of the organization About Church & Dwight
102-8 T otal workforce Sustainability Performance Data
102-9 Supply chain• Responsible Sourcing
• See pp. 6-7 of 10-K report  
(available at investor.churchdwight.com)
102-10 Significant changes to the organizations  
and its supply chain• About Church & Dwight
• While we acquired a new business line in 2019, we did not add any new  
facility locations, or make material changes to our manufacturing footprint.
102-11 Precautionary approach• Product Safety
• Products
102-12 External initiatives• How do we engage stakeholders? 
• Responsible Sourcing
102-13 Membership in associations How do we engage stakeholders?
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior• Sustainability Approach
• How do we engage stakeholders?
• Responsible SourcingWe report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, an internationally recognized guidance for 
transparency in sustainability performance.
The Index below lists the GRI indicators addressed in this Report, and either includes the information directly or provides 
a reference to the relevant section(s) within this Sustainability Report.
DATA
74 GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
102-18 Governance structure See the Corporate Governance section of our website
102-40 List of stakeholder groups• How do we engage stakeholders?
• About This Report
102-41 Collective bargaining agreementsInternationally, we employ union employees in France, Mexico and New Zealand. Employees 
covered by collective bargaining agreements represent less than 1% of our total workforce. We 
believe our relations with both our union and non-union employees are satisfactory.
102-42 Selection of stakeholders About This Report
102-43 Approach to engagement• How do we engage stakeholders?
• About This Report
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised• How do we assess material issues?
• How do we engage stakeholders?
102-45 Entities included in the reportOur data includes all operations under Church & Dwight control. We have one joint venture (JV), 
ARMAKLEENTM, that is included in our reported data. A second JV, Armand Products Company, is 
not included because we do not have operational control. See p. 5 of our 2019 Form 10-K.
102-46 Defining report content• Sustainability Approach 
• About This Report
102-47 List of material topics How do we assess material issues?
102-48 Restatements of information Greenhouse Gases
102-49 Significant changes in material  
topics and boundariesThere were no significant changes in the topics  
and boundaries of our reporting for 2019.
102-50 Reporting period About This Report
102-51 Date of previous reportOur previous report was published in 2019 and included performance data for  
calendar year 2018.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point About This Report
102-54Claims of reporting in accordance  
with the GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards, Core option.
102-55 GRI index GRI Index
102-56 External assurance Greenhouse Gases
DATA
75 GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
103 Management approach for each material issue
Our Brands: Engaging with customers and 
consumers; integrating sustainability Our Brands
Products: Safe ingredients; disclosure Products
Packaging: Consumer-friendly and 
environmentally responsiblePackaging
Employees & Communities: Diversity & 
inclusion, gender equality, employee health• Employees & Communities
• Workplace Safety & Health
Employees & Communities: Community-
enhancing philanthropy and outreach• Employees & Communities
• Our Brands
Responsible Sourcing: Suppliers’ 
environmental, labor, health & safety  
and ethical practicesResponsible Sourcing
Environment: Energy and GHGs; water  
and wasteManaging for Environmental Sustainability
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
201-1 Direct economic value• About Church & Dwight
• Our Brands
• Employee Giving Fund
• Sustainability Performance Data
• 2019 Annual Report
201-2Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeCDP Climate Change response
205-2 Communication and training about anti- 
corruption policies and proceduresResponsible Sourcing
DATA
76 GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
301-2 Recycled input materials used Packaging
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization• Energy Use
• Sustainability Performance Data
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Sustainability Performance Data
302-3 Energy intensity• Energy Use
• Sustainability Performance Data
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy Use
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Water
303-3 Water withdrawal• Water
• Sustainability Performance Data
303-4 Water discharge• Water
• Sustainability Performance Data
303-5 Water consumption• Water
• Sustainability Performance Data
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions• Greenhouse Gases 
• Sustainability Performance Data
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions• Greenhouse Gases 
• Sustainability Performance Data
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions• Greenhouse Gases 
• Sustainability Performance Data
305-4 GHG emissions intensity• Greenhouse Gases 
• Sustainability Performance Data
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions• Energy Use
• Greenhouse Gases
305-7 SOx, NOx, and other air emissions Criteria Air Pollutant Emissions chart
DATA
77 GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination• Water
• Sustainability Performance Data
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method• Waste
• Sustainability Performance Data
306-3 Significant spills• Spills/Releases to the Environment
• Sustainability Performance Data
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Waste
306-5Water bodies affected by water  
discharges and/or runoffWater
307-1 Environmental fines and sanctions Citations and Penalties/Surcharges
308-2Negative environmental impacts in the supply 
chain and actions takenResponsible Sourcing - Palm Oil
DATA
78 GRI Standard Section (or Direct Information)
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Workplace Safety & Health
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 
investigationWorkplace Safety & Health
403-3 Occupational health services Workplace Safety & Health
403-4Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 
occupational health & safetyWorkplace Safety & Health
403-5 Worker training on occupational health & safety Workplace Safety Training
403-6 Promotion of worker health Workplace Safety & Health
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health & safety 
impacts directly linked by business relationshipsResponsible Sourcing
403-9 Work-related injuries• Workplace Safety – Metrics
• Sustainability Performance Data
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programsTraining & Development
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
and career development reviewsAll Church & Dwight employees receive an  
annual performance review.
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Responsible Sourcing
413-1 Community engagement•  Our Brands
• HomeFront NJ
• Community Support Beyond the Employee Giving Fund
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Responsible Sourcing
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain Responsible Sourcing
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of products 
and servicesProduct Safety
417-2 Product and service information and labelingChurch & Dwight experienced a non-compliance on warning 
labeling for Batiste in Germany 
417-3 Marketing communicationsChurch & Dwight experienced no incidents of non-compliance 
with regulations or voluntary codes regarding marketing 
communications in 2019
DATA
79METRIC/UNIT OF MEASURE LOCATION
WATER MANAGEMENT
T otal water withdrawn: Thousand cubic meters (m3) 1,926 thousand cubic meters
T otal water consumed: Percentage (%) 57.3%
Percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress Water, page 63
Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks Water, pages 63-66
PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH, AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Revenue from products that contain REACH substances of very high concern (SVHC) Not reported
Revenue from products that contain substances on the California DTSC Candidate Chemicals List Not reported
Revenue from products designed with green chemistry principles Not reported 
Discussion of process to identify and manage emerging materials and chemicals of concern Products, pages 28-31
PACKAGING LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
T otal weight of packaging: Metric tons Not reported
Percentage made from recycled and/or renewable materials:  Percent (%) Paperboard Sourcing, page 35
Percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable: Percent (%) Packaging Recyclability, page 33
Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact  
of packaging throughout its lifecyclePackaging, pages 32-36SASB IndexIn our reporting, Church & Dwight references the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) industry-specific sustainability 
accounting standards covering financially material issues. The table below summarizes Church & Dwight’s disclosures related to the 
SASB indicators for the Household and Personal Care Products category.
Many of these issues have been included in our CDP responses and in previous years’ sustainability reports. The table below provides 
company-wide quantitative data where available, as well as references to those report sections where we address relevant sustainability 
topics. We are working to improve our systems to allow greater transparency around products and packaging data in the future.
DATA
80METRIC/UNIT OF MEASURE LOCATION
ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL IMPACTS OF PALM OIL SUPPLY CHAIN
Amount of palm oil sourced: Metric tons 30,000 metric tons
Percentage certified through the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) supply chains as (a) Identity 
Preserved, (b) Segregated, (c) Mass Balance, or (d) Book & claim: Percent (%)100%
See also Palm Oil section, pages 49-50
ACTIVITY METRICS
T otal weight of products sold: Metric tons 2,560,000
Number of manufacturing facilities 23
DATA
812019
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT