CINTAS 2020 ESG REPORTWE’RE  
READY™
Our company is dedicated 
to operating to the highest 
ethical and safety standards, 
creating a diverse and 
inclusive workplace, 
providing sustainable 
products and services, and 
caring for our communities. 
We’re committed to doing 
the right thing and we’re 
excited about the progress 
we believe we can make in 
the future. 
Scott D. Farmer  
Chairman and Chief  
Executive Officer, Cintas  to our 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Report, in which we share our ESG performance with 
investors, employee-partners, customers, communities, 
suppliers and other interested parties. WELCOME
ESG AT CINTAS
From the very start of our company’s 
origins, the Cintas business model has 
been based on sustainable practices. Our 
journey started in 1929 during the Great 
Depression when Doc and Amelia Farmer 
collected shop towels that had been 
disposed of by manufacturing facilities 
along the Ohio River. They washed, 
recycled and sold the clean towels back to 
companies. Today, 79% of our total 
company revenue comes from our Uniform 
Rental and Facility Services business. All of 
these items are cleaned and processed in 
ways that extend their lifespan and, when 
not in use, are re‑stocked for future 
customers to maximize their lifespan. Our 
lasting commitment to the environment 
and our communities is evident from our 
processes and innovation, which ensure our 
rental facilities are operating efficiently. 
Our positive discontent drives us to do 
what is best for our employee ‑partners, 
shareholders, communities and the 
environment. 
•   Our Positive Impact in 2020 (p.3)
Working to help make the world  
a better place. ABOUT CINTAS 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, Cintas 
Corporation helps more than 1 million 
businesses get Ready for the Workday®.
We provide highly specialized products and 
services, including corporate uniforms, 
entrance and logo mats, restroom supplies, 
fire protection products, promotional 
products, cleaning products, first aid  
and safety products, and training.
We operate nearly 500 facilities in North 
America, including five manufacturing 
facilities and 12 distribution centers, and 
employ more than 40,000 people.
Key facts
$7.09  billion
revenues
7 .2%
compound annual growth rate 
(CAGR) over the last decade for 
revenue and 19.2% for earnings  
per share
36 years
consecutive increase in  
shareholder dividend•   Energy and Emissions (p.4) 
Reducing our overall energy use,  
energy intensity and greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions.
•  Water (p.5) 
Minimizing freshwater withdrawals, 
reusing water and maintaining the quality 
of water we return to the environment. 
•  Safety and Health (p.6) 
Maintaining the safety and well ‑being  
of everyone who works at or visits  
our facilities.
•  Sustainable Supply Chain (p.7) 
Protecting supply chain workers’ rights  
and sourcing responsibly.
•  Governance, Ethics and Integrity (p.8) 
Doing business in an honest, professional 
and ethical way.
WHAT’S NEXT?
In 2021, we aim to expand our ESG 
reporting — including more clearly 
defining our governance around ESG ‑
related risks and opportunities; continuing 
to be a leader in industry for water usage; 
exploring initiatives to replace fossil fuel 
(fleet); and continuing to optimize fleet fuel 
efficiency. We also look to continue  
our alignment with the United Nations 
Sustainable Develop ment Goals .
Welcome         Our Positive Impact in 2020        Energy and Emissions        Water        Safety and Health        Sustainable Supply Chain        Governance, Ethics and Integrity
2 Learn more about our social responsibility efforts at CintasCares.com . This report is for the fiscal year 
June 1, 2019 to May 31, 2020.WE’RE READY™ TO MAKE  
THE WORLD A BETTER PLACE
We strive to make a positive impact for our own people, as well  
as supporting good causes and lending neighbors a helping hand.
3This year, we celebrated the first 
anniversary of the  Cintas Partner 
Assistance Fund , created to provide 
financial assistance to employee ‑partners 
who have been negatively affected by 
natural disasters. The fund began with 
$500,000 seed money from the company. 
In FY21 the company is committed to 
donating $2,000,000 to the fund.
$490,059   
raised for the American Heart 
Association through employee-
partner giving, fundraising and 
corporate-wide auctions since 2005
Welcome        Our Positive Impact in 2020        Energy and Emissions        Water        Safety and Health        Sustainable Supply Chain        Governance, Ethics and Integrity
American Diabetes Association: 
Cintas visits ADA-sponsored summer 
camps as a part of our ongoing 
collaboration with the organization
RESPONDING TO COVID-19
Using our Preparedness Plan, we 
implemented controls including physical 
barriers, social distancing, appropriate 
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and 
additional hygiene and cleaning regimes. 
Keeping people safe remains our top 
priority. Thanks to the diligence and 
flexibility of our employee ‑partners, we  
also continue to focus on providing 
essential products and services to our 
customers, from cleaning supplies, 
disinfectant services, hand sanitizer to 
scrubs, face masks and face shields.DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Supporting diversity and equality at Cintas 
means fostering a respectful, creative, 
productive environment where every 
employee ‑partner can reach their full 
potential — regardless of gender, ethnicity, 
nationality, disability or age. 
In 2020, Cintas was again included on the 
Military ‑Friendly® Employers  list, earning a 
“Better for Veterans” designation, and was 
also named to the 2020 Disability Equality 
Index® “Best Places to Work.”
Our four Employee ‑Partner Business 
Resource Groups — focused on women, 
African American, Hispanic and Latin 
American, and military and veteran 
employee ‑partners — provide platforms 
for skills, experience and perspectives  
to shine through. In addition, our 
Management Trainee program helps us 
find the best talent for our leadership 
pipeline, and we monitor representation 
across manager and board positions. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
We’re proud to partner with leading 
not‑for‑profit community organizations  
to make a positive impact. 
We created our Clothe the Kids  campaign 
with Matthew 25: Ministries , a humanitarian 
aid organization. Since 2003, our employee ‑
partners have provided more than 3 million 
articles of clothing for disadvantaged children 
and contributed thousands of volunteer  hours. 
Our collaboration with the American 
Heart Association dates back to 2005. 
Since 2016, we have trained more than 
714,000 customers on lifesaving CPR and 
first aid. We have also committed to raise 
$100,000 every year through heart walks 
and runs. By forming and sponsoring Relay 
For Life teams, we help the American 
Cancer Society  fund vital research, 
education and counseling.
Our First Aid & Safety Division has started 
a multiyear program with the  American 
Diabetes Association . In FY ‘20, we gave 
Cintas First Aid Cabinets to 68 youth 
camps in 28 U.S. states, reaching more than 
7,500 young people with type 1 or type 2 
diabetes or prediabetes. 200,000+ 
face masks and other safety 
supplies donated to various 
schools/organizations containing 
and treating COVID-19
Learn more about our social responsibility efforts at CintasCares.com . WE’RE ENGAGED  IN ADDRESSING THE 
CHALLENGE OF CLIMATE CHANGE
4
Welcome        Our Positive Impact in 2020         Energy and Emissions        Water        Safety and Health        Sustainable Supply Chain        Governance, Ethics and Integrity
We are committed to reducing energy use and GHG emissions, 
and helping to address the global impact of climate change.
REDUCING ENERGY USE
The energy Cintas consumes in our rental 
operations includes electricity, primarily  
for lighting and process equipment, and  
fuel — natural gas and propane — for dryers, 
boilers, steam tunnels and building heating. 
Due to the nature of our operations, natural 
gas consistently represents the majority of 
gross energy consumption, accounting for 
79% of a total 4.58 million gigajoules (GJ) 
(4.34 million MBTUs) in FY ’20. As a result of 
introducing initiatives designed to improve 
wash chemistry and optimize laundry load 
weights in FY ‘20, our engineering team 
achieved a 7.4% (503,940 GJ) reduction in 
gross energy consumption. 
We are measuring the energy intensity of 
our operations in megajoules (MJ) per  
100 pounds to contextualize our energy 
consumption relative to the weight of 
material processed. This metric has become 
increasingly important to monitor as our 
business continues to grow and we realize a 
year‑over‑year increase in the total weight  
of material laundered. The average energy 
intensity of our rental operations has 
reduced from 178.25 MJ/100lbs in FY ‘19 to 
160.57 MJ/100lbs in FY ‘20, meaning that 
100 pounds of material processed today requires 10% less energy than was required 
a year ago. Note that this 10% reduction in 
energy intensity is a higher percentage than 
the 7.4% reduction of gross energy 
consumption, which is not being normalized 
to account for a 2.8% increase in laundry 
processed in FY ’20. We are committed to 
lowering the total amount of energy that we 
consume in our operations, regardless of 
the fact that we are processing more each 
year. Data from the Textile Rental Services 
Association of America (TRSA) indicates 
that for in ‑plant production, we use 30% less 
energy than our peers. In FY ‘20, we also upgraded our lighting 
technology to LED at nine locations, where 
we are achieving up to a 50% reduction in 
lighting load. We are working to accelerate 
implementation of LED lighting upgrades  
at an additional 30 of our rental locations  
in FY ‘21.  
LOWERING GHG EMISSIONS
The consumption of energy and fuel within 
our rental and facility service operations 
result in GHG emissions, including carbon 
dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4) and nitrous 
oxide (N 2O). In FY ‘20, our GHG emissions 
for the U.S. and Canada totaled 954.8 million 
pounds of CO 2 equivalent (CO 2e). Our gross 
direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions were 7.8% 
lower than in FY ‘19, while indirect (Scope 2) 
emissions fell by 6.1%. TRSA comparisons 
suggest that our emissions, are more than 
10% lower than the industry average.
We continue our efforts to reduce vehicle 
emissions by focusing on increased fuel 
efficiency, alternative fuels and 
route  optimization.
With 28.5 million hundredweight of material 
laundered, our GHG emissions intensity for 
FY ‘20 is down 9.3% from FY ‘19. 
Efficiency improvements are continually 
implemented at Cintas laundry facilities 
through innovation and upgrade of 
operations in an effort to preserve the 
natural environment10%
annual reduction in energy 
use by Cintas rental 
operations through energy-
efficiency initiatives 
6.7%
annual reduction in total 
gross Scope 1 and 2 
emissions
Cintas laundry process is
55%
more energy efficient than 
home laundry*
TRSA reporting shows 
Cintas uses
30%
less energy than peer 
companies, which results in 
10% lower emissions than 
industry average
Learn more about our social responsibility efforts at CintasCares.com . * Home laundry calculations are based  
on WSI (Washing Systems LLC) studiesWelcome        Our Positive Impact in 2020         Energy and Emissions         Water        Safety and Health        Sustainable Supply Chain        Governance, Ethics and Integrity
WE’RE COMMITTED  TO 
USING WATER RESPONSIBLY
5Water is essential for our operations, but we know we must be a steward 
of this shared resource by minimizing use and maximizing reuse. 
USING LESS WATER, REUSING MORE
In FY ‘20, our North American rental 
operations withdrew 3.16 million 
kilogallons (11.9 million m3) of freshwater 
— 390,600 kgal less than in FY ‘19 — from  
14 major river basins, including the 
Mississippi – Missouri (30.9% of the total), 
St. Lawrence (18.4%) and the Gulf of  
Mexico (15%). 
We continually evaluate opportunities to 
reduce our water use from areas 
experiencing high water stress. Our 2020 
water risk assessment identified 19% of 
total rental operations are in areas of high 
water stress across North America. Around 
20% of our water use was withdrawn in 
areas with high or extremely high levels of 
water stress, a 1% reduction from FY19. 
Most of the purchased water we use for our 
rental operations is freshwater obtained 
from third parties, although, where 
available, we treat and reuse water for 
rinsing of mats. A mix of water ‑efficiency 
projects and continual process 
improvement is being used to reduce our 
reliance on freshwater. We have also 
installed water reclamation and reuse 
systems across many of our facilities. We carefully monitor and control our 
laundering process to minimize water 
usage intensity; in FY ‘20, the amount of 
water required to process a pound of 
laundry was 11% less than industry peers, 
according to the TRSA’s 2018 report.
MANAGING WASTEWATER
Our laundering processes generate far less 
wastewater than home laundering. During 
the laundry process, an estimated 10% of 
freshwater is lost to evaporation, while the 
rest is reused or discharged. 88.4%
of water withdrawals were returned to 
the environment 
The Cintas laundry process is
42%
more water efficient than home laundry*
TRSA reporting shows Cintas required
11%
less water per pound of laundry to 
process than peer companiesOur facilities discharge washing process 
effluent to publicly owned treatment works 
in compliance with local discharge 
standards and permits, which require 
varying degrees of pretreatment and  
reuse. This year, we returned an estimated 
2.8 million kgal (10.6 million m3) of the water 
withdrawn to local water bodies. 
Looking ahead, we plan to install more 
advanced wastewater treatment 
technologies, such as membrane filtration. 
Membrane filters will enable us to increase 
the amount of water we can reuse, while also 
removing emerging pollutants.
1  Water is withdrawn from 
freshwater sources, but 
increasingly is reclaimed 
and reused water
3  The rest is reused 
or discharged2  Some water is lost 
to evaporation4  Discharged water is 
treated in compliance 
with local standards
5  Once treated, the clean 
water is returned safely 
to local water bodiesWater and our laundering processes
Learn more about our social responsibility efforts at CintasCares.com . * Home laundry calculations are based  
on WSI (Washing Systems LLC) studies6
Welcome        Our Positive Impact in 2020         Energy and Emissions         Water        Safety and Health        Sustainable Supply Chain        Governance, Ethics and Integrity
WE’RE  INSPIRED  TO CONTINUE 
MEETING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS
Guided by our Safety Vision, we want every site to be injury-free, every employee-partner  
to help improve safety and Cintas to be known as a global leader in safety and health.
MANAGING SAFETY AND HEALTH
To enforce internationally recognized 
standards, we have implemented an 
occupational health and safety management 
system in accordance with the Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). 
Employee ‑partners, contractors, vendors 
and visitors are all covered by the system, 
which focuses on hazard prevention, training, 
management commitment and worker 
involvement. We’re also engaged in 
continuously improving performance 
through our Safety Improvement 
Committees in every operation, while 
corporate safety and health partners 
conduct annual reviews of our operations.
Our safety and health team has developed 
more ergonomic ways to handle laundry, a 
system for accessing industrial laundry 
machinery, a device for safe electrical 
maintenance and programs for contractors 
to earn safety qualifications. Such initiatives 
have contributed to a reduction in total injury 
rate (TIR) over the last decade, from 5.28 in 
FY ‘10 to 1.79 in FY ‘20.  SAFETY AND HEALTH TRAINING
Every year, our employee ‑partners receive 
online, on ‑the‑job and classroom training 
on 30 safety topics — and all maintenance 
staff must complete the Maintenance  
Safety Certification. In addition, every 
manager attends OSHA’s 10 ‑hour Safety Improvement course and each member  
of our Senior Management team takes the 
Management and Leadership Skills for 
Environmental Health and Safety 
Professionals Course, part of the Harvard 
T.H Chan School of Public Health safety  
and health curriculum.
The Live Well program includes  
free flu shots on location for  
all employee-partners
Learn more about our social responsibility efforts at CintasCares.com . #1
Cintas has a strong 
commitment to safety 
engagement at our facilities. 
So it’s not surprising that 
more than 100 of our U.S. 
locations have received 
OSHA’s “VPP Star 
Recognition for Workplace 
Safety” — the ultimate 
award for the practice of 
exemplary occupational 
safety and health. Of course 
achieving this distinction  
is no small feat, given the 
fact that it can take several  
years to complete the 
rigorous onsite evaluations 
conducted by OSHA and 
other agencies.66%
reduction in TIR over 
the last decadeHEALTH AND WELLNESS
Our long ‑running Live Well program 
supports employee ‑partners on their 
health and wellness journeys. We provide 
free biometric screening, annual free flu 
shots, tobacco cessation sessions and an 
employee ‑partner assistance program, 
which offers advice on mental health, legal 
and financial issues. 7
Welcome        Our Positive Impact in 2020         Energy and Emissions         Water        Safety and Health        Sustainable Supply Chain        Governance, Ethics and Integrity
WE’RE  DEDICATED  TO MAINTAINING 
AN ETHICAL SUPPLY CHAIN 
We require our vendors and contractors to conduct business in  
an ethical and moral manner, both domestically and internationally. 
MANAGING HUMAN RIGHTS  
AND LABOR RIGHTS IMPACTS  
We have zero tolerance of all forms of 
forced, trafficked, slave and child labor in 
our supply chain, as outlined in our Vendor 
Code of Conduct. 
We proactively review and monitor 
compliance with the Code’s conditions 
using an annual 322 ‑point audit program. 
These are third ‑party, independent audits 
conducted by auditors certified under 
WRAP (Worldwide Responsible Apparel 
Production) guidelines. 
Each of these social compliance audits of 
our suppliers results in a Corrective Action 
Plan. We reserve the right to terminate our 
business relationship with any supplier that 
does not take the corrective actions needed 
to address any non ‑compliances.HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING 
Cintas conducts training to ensure that 
employee ‑partners and others with direct 
responsibility for supply chain management 
are aware of the issues and concerns 
surrounding the supply chain, including the 
risk of human trafficking and modern slavery. 
To reduce business and reputational risk, 
human rights training is mandatory for all 
supply chain supervisors and managers. Using real ‑life scenarios and referencing 
current global regulations, the TRACE 
e‑learning course outlines the requirements 
of global trafficking ‑related statutes, 
including the UK Modern Slavery Act and 
U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulation, which 
helps learners to understand human 
trafficking risks and formulate a plan to 
identify and avoid trafficked labor. 
Around
200
social compliance audits of  
our suppliers were conducted 
during FY ‘20ASSESSING NEW SUPPLIERS
Our purchasing agreements require all 
suppliers and contractors to comply with 
the Vendor Code of Conduct and 
applicable laws within each country of 
operation and conduct their business in an 
ethical manner. While we recognize the 
many different legal and cultural 
environments throughout the world, the 
Code sets out the basic requirements all 
vendors must meet to do business with us.
TRACE e-learning:  helps companies 
conduct business ethically and in 
compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act, UK Bribery Act and other 
similar anti-bribery legislation
Learn more about our social responsibility efforts at CintasCares.com . GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES
The Cintas Board of Directors is the highest 
governing body in our organization.  
Our Board is made up of eight members  
(six male and two female) and all senior 
leaders report to our CEO, Scott Farmer, 
who is also Chairman of the Board.
The entire Board oversees our risk 
management process. We use a 
comprehensive enterprise risk management 
(ERM) process to monitor, measure and 
manage risks, review our risk exposure and 
elevate certain key risks for discussion at 
Board level as appropriate.
The directors are organized into 
committees — the Executive Committee, 
Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee, Audit Committee and 
Compensation Committee — to address 
key issues in greater detail.VALUES, PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS
Our Corporate Culture spans our beliefs, 
ethics and values, including honesty and 
integrity, hard work, trust and respect, as 
well as defining a common language and 
customs. All management trainees and 
manager ‑level hires undergo Corporate 
Culture training. Employee ‑partners 
celebrate and recommit to the company’s 
culture and values at an annual “Spirit Day” 
across all locations.
Our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics 
framework outlines our values and our high 
standards of ethical conduct. Although our 
entire management team is responsible for 
teaching and modeling our organization’s 
values, principles, standards and expected 
behaviors, our CEO maintains ultimate 
responsibility for them.
Our Corporate Culture spans our 
beliefs, ethics and values, including 
honesty and integrity, hard work, 
trust and  respect.   REPORTING CONCERNS
We are committed to complying with all 
applicable laws and regulations, and to 
reporting situations or issues that are in 
violation of the law, company policy or our 
core principles. Employee ‑partners have 
access to several mechanisms to report 
questions or concerns: they can speak with 
their supervisor, a Human Resources 
representative or the Compliance 
Department, or call the Cintas Direct Line, a 
dedicated, 24/7 toll ‑free phone line operated 
by an independent third party. 
08
 8
Welcome        Our Positive Impact in 2020         Energy and Emissions         Water        Safety and Health        Sustainable Supply Chain         Governance, Ethics and Integrity
WE’RE  READY™ TO CONTINUE DOING 
THE RIGHT THING EVERY DAY
Across our company, we are committed to corporate responsibility, 
operating honestly and fairly, and doing what’s right.
The Cintas Code of Conduct 
is an important part of our 
values and reflects our 
company’s commitment to 
ethical business practices 
and regulatory compliance
Learn more about our social responsibility efforts at CintasCares.com . 6800 Cintas Boulevard  
P.O. Box 625737
Cincinnati, OH 45262 ‑5737
800.CINTAS1
CintasCares.comForbes  Magazine
2020 Best  
Employer for  
Diversity 
©2020 FORTUNE Media IP Limited. Used under license.
Forbes  Magazine
2020 B est 
Employer for
DiversityFortune  Magazine
2020 America’s 
Most Admired 
Companies
©2020 FORTUNE Media IP Limited. Used under license.Forbes  Magazine
2020 B est 
Employer for
DiversityFortune  Magazine
2020 America’s 
Most Admired 
Companies
©2020 FORTUNE Media IP Limited. Used under license.Forbes  Magazine
2020 B est 
Employer for
DiversityFortune  Magazine
2020 America’s 
Most Admired 
Companies
OUR PARTNERS MAKE US A RECOGNIZED LEADER