2021
ESG REPORT
THE CINTAS ESG JOURNEY   
BUILDING ON OUR HISTORY
AND ACHIEVEMENTS AS WE
PREPARE FOR THE FUTUREFORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS
This Cintas Corporation 2021 Environmental, Social, 
and Governance (ESG) Report contains forward-
looking statements. The Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil 
litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-
looking statements may be identified by words such 
as “estimates,” “anticipates,” “predicts,” “projects,” 
“plans,” “expects,” “intends,” “goal,” “target,” 
“forecast,” “believes,” “seeks,” “ambition,” “could,” 
“should,” “may,” and “will,” or the negative versions 
thereof and similar words, terms, and expressions 
and by the context in which they are used. Such 
statements are based upon current expectations, 
estimates, and projections of Cintas and speak only 
as of the date  made. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-
looking statement. We cannot guarantee that any 
forward-looking statement will be realized. These 
statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties, 
potentially inaccurate assumptions, and other factors 
that could cause actual results to differ from those 
set forth in or implied by this ESG Report. Factors 
that might cause such a difference include, but are 
not limited to: our ability to successfully meet our 
environmental and social goals presented in this ESG 
Report within the expected timeframe, including 
our Net Zero greenhouse gas (GHG) goal, due to a 
number of risks and uncertainties, such as: changes 
in laws, regulations, or public policy; the alignment 
of the scientific community on measurement 
approaches; the evolution of technology; the 
complexity of commodity supply chains and adoption of supply chain traceability practices and tools; 
the quality of recycling and waste management 
infrastructure in local markets; the volatility of markets 
for recycled materials; the capital and operating cost 
of implementing recycling and waste management 
technologies; and the risks, uncertainties, and other 
matters included in our Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the year ended May 31, 2021 and in our 
reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K that we file with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Cintas 
undertakes no obligation to publicly release any 
revisions to any forward-looking statements or to 
otherwise update any forward-looking statements, 
whether as a result of new information or to reflect 
events, circumstances, or any other unanticipated 
developments arising after the date on which such 
statements are made, except otherwise as required by law. The risks and uncertainties described herein 
are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks 
and uncertainties presently not known to us or that 
we currently believe to be immaterial may also harm 
our business. Investors should not interpret the 
disclosure of any risk factor to imply that the risk has 
not already  materialized. 
The company goals presented in this ESG Report 
are aspirational and not guarantees or promises that 
such goals will be met. Statistics and metrics related 
to ESG matters are estimates and may be based on 
assumptions or developing  standards.
Inclusion of ESG-related or other information in this 
report is not an indication that such information is 
necessarily material to  investors. 2021  HIGHLIGHTS
ENVIRONMENTAL HIGHLIGHTS SOCIAL HIGHLIGHTS AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Reduced our 
total energy 
usage by  
6.9% from 
FY20Lowered 
our water 
consumption  
by 5.1%  
from FY20
Diverted 94.4%  of 
our waste from landfill 
through various reuse 
and recycle effortsDonated $3.8 million 
worth of PPE and other 
safety products to local 
communities to support 
COVID-19 programsSpent $387.7 million with 
diverse suppliers, representing 
16.9% of our total supplier 
spend – both company records 
Lowered our 
employee-partners’ 
Total Recordable 
Injury Rate (TRIR) to 
1.70, the company’s 
best-ever markRanked No. 410 on the  
2021 Fortune 500, our highest- 
ever ranking 
Recognized as 
one of Forbes ’ 
“Best Employers 
for Diversity”Ranked No. 6 
on Selling Power ’s 
“50 Best  
Companies  
to Sell  
For”  list
Named a “Best Place to Work  
for Disability Inclusion”   
by the Disability Equality Index
2
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTSOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT ABOUT CINTAS
WELCOME
Welcome to our 2021 Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Report, the latest annual report 
in which we share our ESG journey, including our performance, successes, and opportunities, with 
our shareholders, customers, employee-partners, communities in which we do business, and other 
interested  parties.
As we committed to doing in 2020, we have 
expanded our reporting this year to include 
further data and more details about our ESG 
journey. The 2021 report  includes: 
• Climate and Energy  Initiatives
• Water  Interactions
• Materials and Waste  Innovations
• Sustainable Supply  Chain
• Diversity and Inclusion  Efforts
• Employee-Partner  Development
• Safety and Health  Strategy
• Human Rights and Labor Rights  Positions
• Governance, Ethics, and Integrity  FoundationsAs we progress on our ESG journey, we expect 
to continue expanding our reporting, insights, 
and analysis in future editions of our annual 
ESG  Report. 
Thank you for your interest in Cintas. We invite 
you to learn more about our ESG-related 
initiatives in the overview that  follows. 2 ABOUT  CINTAS
2 2021  Highlights 
2 Forward-Looking  Statements
3 Welcome
4  Our ESG -Focused Product & 
Service  Initiatives
5 ESG Is Central to  Cintas
8 A Message From Our  CEO10 About This  Report
11 This Is  Cintas
12 The Spirit Is The  Difference
14 Stakeholder  Engagement
16  Our Continued 
COVID-19  Response
17 ENVIRONMENT
18 Environment
20 Climate and  Energy
25 Water  Stewardship
29 Waste and Materials  Use
31 SOCIAL
32 Our  People
33  Diversity, Equity, and  Inclusion
35 Talent  Recruitment
36 Talent  Retention
37 Compensation
38  Performance and  Advancement
39 Training and  Development
41  Employee-Partner  Engagement43 Labor  Relations 
45 Human  Rights
46 Safety and  Health
49  Global Supply Chain and 
Supplier  Relations
51 Supplier  Diversity
52 Local  Communities
57 GOVERNANCE
58 ESG  Governance
60 Ethics and  Integrity
61 Tax  Policy
62 Public  Policy63  Cybersecurity, Data, and 
Customer  Privacy
64 Regulatory  Compliance
65 APPENDIX
66 Definitions
67  Notes and  Methodologies 
68  Referenced  Calculations 71 GRI  Index
78 SASB  Index
TABLE OF CONTENTS
3
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
FIRST AID & SAFETY
 FIRE PROTECTION
 DESIGN COLLECTIVE
•  Significant water and energy efficiencies compared to  traditional  
at-home laundry  process
• Proprietary processes reduce wash chemical, water, and energy  requirements
• Process improvements reduce quantity of wash  loads 
• Environmentally friendly  detergent
• Product line supports customers’  health  
and wellness  needs
• Offer certified training in lifesaving  techniques
• Offer products containing recycled materials when  possible
• Waterbreak system encourages reusable  containers  
to reduce or eliminate plastic bottle  usage
• Distribution centers recycle corrugated/plastic  waste
• Donate overstock PPE and safety items  to  
various  charities• Alarm and suppression  systems  
provide lifesaving  protection
• Exit lighting systems support safe 
evacuation in case of  emergencies
• Offer extinguisher exchange  program
• Recycle Halon gas, sealed  lead  
acid batteries, aluminum, steel, and 
brass from old extinguisher  units• More than 100 uniform styles  made  
from sustainable  materials
• Proprietary ComfortFLEX® fabric  made  
from recycled  polyester
• Regeneration Collection™ made from recycled 
plastic  bottles
• Collect customers’ old garments and turn them 
into Martex  Fiber
• Upcycling and repurposing end-of-life  garments• Offer Green Seal-certified  products 
• Provide “Designed for Environment” (DfE)  chemicals 
• Package-free  products
• Microfiber towels reduce need for disposable  products
• Offer floor mat products made from 50% recycled  contentUNIFORM RENTAL FACILITY SERVICES
OUR ESG-FOCUSED PRODUCT & SERVICE  INITIATIVES
Our products and services are created with sustainability and a “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” mentality. This approach is embedded throughout our business  units:
4
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
Doc and Amelia  Farmer
 Dick Farmer with an employee-partner in  1961
ESG IS CENTRAL TO  CINTAS
The concept of corporate social 
responsibility has evolved in recent 
decades. Where the concept once 
explained a company’s commitment 
to philanthropy and responsible social 
practices, it now also incorporates its 
environmental impact, how it governs 
itself, and how it monitors compliance. 
Public interest in companies’ holistic 
environmental, social, and governance – 
or ESG – strategy is a relatively recent 
and evolving  concept.
At Cintas, we view our entrance into formal 
ESG reporting and the development of 
our company-wide ESG strategy as the 
latest steps in our  progression. 
That’s because many of the core ESG 
concepts we now measure and report 
have been engrained in our company for 
decades. These foundations are rooted 
in our corporate culture and in our 
“Reduce, Reuse, Recycle”  mindset. 
Our sustainable business model began 
almost 100 years ago at the very origin 
of the company and has continued to 
evolve in everything we’ve done since. 
So this development isn’t a drastic leap 
for us. Rather, it’s a natural evolution of 
our long-standing business  practices. 
OUR  ORIGINS
The company’s sustainable principles 
date back to our origins in 1929 during 
the Great Depression. Out-of-work 
circus performers Doc Farmer and his 
wife Amelia gathered dirty shop rags 
that local businesses had thrown away, brought them home to wash, and sold 
the clean rags back to companies in 
the Cincinnati area. Unknowingly, they 
created a local circular economy and the 
resourceful spirit that Cintas is known for 
today. They also created our sustainable 
business  model. 
As the company grew, their grandson, 
Richard “Dick” Farmer, created a 
burgeoning work uniform rental 
operation in 1959. This implemented the 
same business model, and provided an 
easy, affordable, and sustainable option 
for companies to outfit their employees. 
By renting businesses their uniforms, 
he realized we could extend the life of the garments, wash and dry them 
more responsibly and sustainably than 
employees could at home, and preserve 
natural resources in the process. His 
vision launched the company on its 
current path of success and confirmed 
that a sustainable business idea could be 
successful in the modern day … an idea 
ahead of his  time. 
Further expansions into facility services, 
first aid and safety, and fire protection 
under subsequent CEOs – Bob Kohlhepp 
(1996-2003) and Dick’s son, Scott Farmer 
(2003-2021) – deepened the company’s 
model further. Cintas’ new offerings 
were based on reusing and recycling end-of-life products and reducing the 
overall use of natural resources. They 
also introduced products and services 
that help our customers keep their own 
facilities, employees, and customers 
cleaner, safer, and  healthier.
Scott Farmer (CEO 2003-2021), Dick Farmer (CEO 
1968-1996), Bob Kohlhepp (CEO 1996-2003)
5
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
We expect ethical interactions with all 
stakeholders ( see pg. 14 ). We also insist 
on being a good corporate citizen and 
steward by governing ourselves with the 
core principles of accountability, fairness, 
ethical behavior, and  compliance.
In short, we believe we conduct our 
business the right  way.
TODAY’S  CINTAS
Doc and Amelia’s ingenuity and 
environmentally focused activities of 
almost 100 years ago remain at the core 
of our company in 2021. As we’ve grown, 
we’ve enacted processes and policies 
to promote conducting our business 
with the highest ethical standards 
and keeping people central in all 
our decisions. 
Our business growth has been buoyed 
by our ESG mindset. Today,  Cintas:
• Incorporates sustainable practices 
throughout our  operations
• Extends the lifespan of consumable 
goods to reduce their overall 
environmental  impact
• Cleans items more effectively and 
efficiently than the consumer market 
and our competitors1,2
• Provides higher-performance, longer-
lasting alternatives to disposable or 
single-use  products
• Offers competitive wages and 
salaries; expansive benefits packages; 
and ongoing support, training and 
development opportunities to all of 
our employee-partners WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE  DO
Dick Farmer – who we credit as the 
Founder of the modern-day Cintas – 
documented and formalized our 
corporate culture in his book The 
Spirit Is The Difference ( see pg. 12 ). His 
philosophy still carries forward today and 
underpins our  business. 
The Spirit Is The Difference is a handbook 
describing how we run our business. Its 
central themes are collaboration and 
common respect, both for our people 
and the world around us. Respecting 
and valuing one another and each 
other’s contributions to our business is 
paramount. Over time, this has led to 
fantastic employee-partner engagement, 
great retention rates, a world-class 
safety program, and a widely respected 
management philosophy. All of this has 
supported our ongoing innovation, which 
has helped minimize the environmental 
impact of our  business. 
Our steadfast belief in doing what’s right 
guides our efforts to foster a supportive, 
inclusive environment for all our 
employee-partners. They’re engrained 
in all of our decisions: we carefully 
consider potential impacts on them 
as carefully as we consider potential 
impacts on our overall business. Our care 
and compassion also extend to people 
affected by our business, including 
our customers, suppliers, vendors, and 
business  partners. • Supports and promotes the health, 
safety, and welfare of our employee-
partners, as well as our customers and 
their  employees
• Engrains ourselves in the communities 
in which we do business by owning 
and maintaining property and capital 
equipment; being fair taxpayers; 
and supporting local initiatives and 
community  priorities. 
We’re proud that our history of ingenuity 
and innovation has resulted in industry-
leading practices and continued 
reductions in natural resource use. 
Considering environmental impacts 
in our business decisions has been a 
successful strategy, and beneficial to our 
financial  success. When a customer uses Cintas services 
or wears our uniforms, they have 
chosen to minimize their environmental 
footprint. Of the four available options 
in the market – Cintas, our competitors, 
disposable items, or do-it-yourself 
solutions – Cintas is the most energy and 
water efficient, reuses more materials, 
and needs fewer raw materials than 
other  options. 
For our customers, that means we 
help them reduce their environmental 
footprint. For those who consider home 
laundry options, traditional at-home 
laundering and drying uses an average 
of 84% more water and 69% more energy 
than we do.3
1 See pg. 68: Appendix > Referenced Calculations > Cintas vs. At-Home Laundry Comparisons.
2 See pg. 68: Appendix > Referenced Calculations > Cintas vs. TRSA Industry Comparisons.
3 See pg. 68: Appendix > Referenced Calculations > Cintas vs. At-Home Laundry Comparisons.
6
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
WHAT’S  NEXT?
The concepts of operating a sustainable 
business and making environmentally 
conscious decisions are not new to 
us. We have continually improved 
our environmental management, our 
people strategies, and our management 
processes. As ESG priorities have 
become more clearly defined and 
this holistic measure of business has 
evolved, we’ve been watching, listening, 
and  learning. 
Now we’re joining the conversation in 
a more meaningful way: we’re defining, 
measuring, and creating formal 
strategies centered on ESG  principles. 
What we’ve accomplished so far is 
only the beginning. We’ve already 
been successful, but we’re still at the 
start of our journey – one that will be 
further rooted in ESG platforms and 
concepts. One of our core company 
values ( see pg. 13 ) is positive discontent. 
It pushes us to do more, be better, 
and have a greater positive impact in 
our world. 
Our new ambition to achieve Net Zero 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 
2050  is just the next step in our young 
journey. What started in 2019 as an effort 
to collect and analyze our company data 
for our first ESG Report continues today 
as an enterprise-wide business review 
that is expected to continue into  2023. In August, we created our new Vice 
President of ESG and Chief Compliance 
Officer (CCO) position  and finished a 
multiple-department reorganization 
to form a new Risk & Compliance 
Department that reports to the new 
VP of ESG and CCO. This group will 
define and implement our ESG strategy, 
activities, monitoring, and  compliance.
As our enterprise-wide assessment 
continues, we will continue to review 
our processes in the context of the developing ESG landscape. We expect 
to identify further opportunities to 
reduce our environmental impact, 
and to make even greater operational 
reductions in energy, emissions, water, 
raw materials, and waste. We also expect 
to bolster our initiatives around diversity 
and inclusion, human capital, safety and 
health, and our governance objectives, 
among other  areas.Our company has been based in ESG-
related principles since the beginning. 
Each new chief executive introduced 
initiatives that strengthened our 
commitments to the environment, our 
people, and our  processes. 
Now, Todd Schneider – our new 
President and CEO – sets out his vision 
for our future on the following  pages. 
7
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
A MESSAGE FROM OUR  CEO
The word “unprecedented” has become 
far too common in the last two  years. 
First, we have rallied against a global 
pandemic that has challenged us to 
focus on health and safety in new and 
innovative ways. Communities have come 
together to withstand wave after wave of 
a deadly virus as our global scientific and 
research communities worked together 
to develop the greatest weapon against 
COVID-19:  vaccines.
Simultaneously, we have faced 
unparalleled weather events. COVID-19 
has been the primary focus of our 
collective attention over the last two 
years, but the increasing cadence of 
weather catastrophes – heat waves, 
cold spells, severe storms, wildfires, 
hurricanes, blizzards, and droughts 
around the globe – can’t be  ignored.
This summer, the United Nations’ working 
group released a report emphasizing 
that climate change and global warming 
are worsening at accelerating rates and 
that increased efforts to mitigate their 
impacts were  necessary. 
We recognize that climate change is 
a global issue. As a good corporate 
citizen, we should consider and engage 
in activities and initiatives that help 
reduce our environmental impact. To that 
end, in September 2021, we announced 
our ambition to achieve Net Zero GHG 
emissions by  2050 . As a company, we believe this is a natural 
next step for us since the business model 
we have utilized for almost a century is 
based on sustainable business practices 
and a “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle”  mindset. 
Given our business and industry, we 
understand that achieving Net Zero is 
ambitious, but we are committed to 
doing our part to innovate and explore 
new technologies that will be necessary 
along this journey. We’ll need to 
scrutinize our operational processes – 
including the energy sources we use and 
our fleet – and we’ll need the support 
and buy-in of our supply chain  partners. 
This will not be an overnight process – 
it will be a journey. 2050 is almost 
30 years away. This is going to take time, 
attention, resources, and dedication. 
Our Net Zero ambition will challenge 
our entire company to think even more 
critically about our business and create 
more sustainable ways to help our 
customers get Ready for the Workday®.
Our corporate culture ( see pg. 32 ) 
is based on doing what’s right and 
using positive discontent to challenge 
ourselves to be better. In line with this, we 
have made significant reductions to our 
environmental footprint. We’ve innovated 
and implemented new and improved 
processes, including our Operational 
Excellence initiatives that increase our 
“Capacity without Cost” ( see pg. 26). “We believe this is an 
excellent opportunity to 
talk about what we’ve 
accomplished and the 
advancements we’ve made 
that have pushed us and 
our industry.”
8
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
The scientific and research communities 
are laser-focused on the same issues. We 
believe Cintas can leverage their findings 
and breakthroughs, combine them with 
our own innovations, and drive further 
improvements on our environmental 
and societal impacts as we march 
toward  2050. 
While we’re certainly excited to tackle 
the challenges ahead, we are immensely 
proud of what we’ve achieved so far. 
Sometimes we don’t take enough 
credit for our efforts to reduce our 
environmental impact; foster an 
inclusive, supportive atmosphere for 
our employee-partners; and position 
ourselves as a moral, ethical, and model 
company. We believe this is an excellent 
opportunity to talk about what we’ve 
accomplished and the advancements 
we’ve made that have pushed us and 
our industry. 
We do many, many things in a world-
class way at Cintas, but we cannot be 
complacent. We must continue to push 
and stretch ourselves to be better and 
make stronger impacts, in an upstanding, 
admirable  way.Doc and Amelia Farmer’s story is central 
to our ESG story. Each of our leaders who 
have followed has built on their ingenuity 
and engrained sustainability and other 
ESG concepts deeper into our business. 
The innate connection between smart 
business practices and sustainable 
activities is central to Cintas’ past, 
present, and future, and helps separate 
us in the  marketplace. 
This report is a snapshot of our efforts 
and the foundation for our journey 
ahead. We call this our ESG journey, and 
it’s just getting  started. 
Having the context of where we’ve 
come from and where we intend to go, 
we welcome you to review our 2021 
ESG  Report. 
Thank you for your continued  support.  
 
Todd  Schneider  
President and Chief Executive  OfficerA FEW WORDS FROM  OUR  
VICE PRESIDENT OF ESG AND  CCO
ESG is a quickly evolving area with 
increasing attention from many different 
stakeholders, and I’m honored to be 
tasked with leading Cintas’ activities 
in this area. We already have many 
successful initiatives in place, triggering 
improvements in our own processes and 
across our industry over the  years. 
Our ongoing efforts in sustainability and 
resource reduction, diversity and inclusion, 
health and safety, and compliance with 
laws and regulations are a tremendous 
foundation on which we will base our 
future. And we intend to reinforce our 
reputation for world-class programs in 
these areas as we move  forward. 
As we continue our ambitious review of 
our business, we will start to develop 
a new, comprehensive, and integrated 
ESG strategy. This will guide us into the 
future and continue to position Cintas as 
a responsible global  citizen.
Christy  Nageleisen  
Vice President of ESG  and  
Chief Compliance  Officer
“This will guide 
us into the future 
and continue to 
position Cintas 
as a responsible 
global citizen.”
9
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
The 2021 Cintas ESG Report is the 
company’s second such report to be 
published and includes information and 
performance data from June 1, 2020, 
through May 31, 2021, unless otherwise 
stated. We intend to produce this 
report  annually. 
Energy, emissions, and water data 
is reported for our Rental division 
operations in the United States,4 which 
encompasses our uniform rental and 
facility services activities. U.S. Rental 
operations5 represent about 93% of 
our Rental division FY21 revenues and 
74% of our FY21 company revenues. 
Social and governance topics cover our 
entire  organization.
All financial references and data are 
noted in U.S. dollars. We further define 
terms used and annotate additional 
references and reporting methodologies 
in the Appendix at the end of this  report. 
The report has been prepared 
referencing Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Standards. A full listing of the GRI 
Disclosures relevant to Cintas is available 
in the  Appendix.ABOUT THIS  REPORT
Data included in this report is updated 
through the close of FY21, unless otherwise 
noted. Cintas is not obligated to update 
the 2021 report after its initial release on 
November 16, 2021, but reserves the right 
to make edits if  necessary. 
Some previously reported environmental 
data has been updated since the 2020 
report’s  release. 
• Minor calculation adjustments have 
been made to reflect more accurate 
location-based emissions data 
from each specific utility company 
for the years reported. In 2020, our 
data used country averages in our 
emissions  calculations. 
• Our reported energy and emissions 
data sets were expanded to include 
all U.S. Rental locations6 in operation 
during the reporting periods – 
including branches. In 2020, we 
reported environmental data only for 
our Rental processing  locations. 
• Data has been captured for the U.S. 
Rental fleet and incorporated into the 
energy and emissions data for the 
reported years. Fleet data was not 
reported in  2020. • Further, water data has been 
converted to megaliters (ML) for our 
2021 reporting after being reported in 
kilogallons (kgal) in our 2020  report. 
• Finally, we have created a new intensity 
metric that leverages revenues as a 
denominator for our emissions, energy, 
and water intensity values. This will help 
us reflect our company’s business and 
growth as we continue to expand our 
reporting in future years. In our 2020 
report, those values were calculated as 
a function of hundredweight (Cwt)7 of 
processed  poundage. 
Further, our environmental performance 
has demonstrated continued 
improvements from FY19 through FY21. 
However, the COVID-19 pandemic’s effect 
on our performance and data cannot be 
completely isolated from other efficiency 
and process changes that contributed 
to performance improvements. The 
COVID-19 pandemic began in the fourth 
quarter of FY20 and continued during all 
four quarters of FY21.8
For more information about Cintas’ 2021 
ESG Report or if you have questions, 
please contact us at ESG@cintas.com, 
or through your normal stakeholder 
communications  platform.
4 See pg. 66: Appendix > Definitions > Rental division operations in the United States.
5 See pg. 66: Appendix > Definitions > U.S. Rental operations.
6 See pg. 66: Appendix > Definitions > U.S. Rental locations.
7 See pg. 66: Appendix > Definitions > Hundredweight (Cwt). 
8 See pg. 67: Appendix > Notes & Methodologies > COVID-19 Effect on Data and Performance. FURTHER INFORMATION
• FY21 Cintas Form 10-K
• 2021 Proxy  Statement  
• cintas.com  
• cintascares.com  
• Cintas Investor  Relations  
• Cintas 2020 ESG Report
10
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
Cintas Corporation helps more than 
one million businesses of all types and 
sizes get Ready for the Workday® with 
confidence. Our products and services 
help keep our customers’ facilities and 
employees clean, safe, and looking 
their  best. 
The origins of our family business 
(see pg. 5 ) date back to 1929 and the 
Great Depression, when Doc and 
Amelia Farmer collected, washed, and 
resold shop rags around Cincinnati. 
The modern-day Cintas evolved in 1968 
when Richard “Dick” Farmer’s new 
uniform rental programs were launched 
and used an exclusive new fabric. With 
Dick’s uniform rental concept anchoring 
growth, Cintas established itself as 
a power in the developing business 
services industry. Dick took the company 
public in 1983, and later CEOs Bob 
Kohlhepp and Scott Farmer continued to 
grow the company with expansions into 
facility services, first aid and safety, fire 
protection, and uniform direct  sales. 
Headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio, 
Cintas common stock is traded on the 
Nasdaq Global Select Market under the 
symbol CTAS and is a component of both 
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 
Nasdaq-100 Index. The company ranked 
No. 410 on the 2021 Fortune  500. THIS IS  CINTAS
Operating in North America, our 
customers range from small service 
and manufacturing companies to major 
corporations employing thousands of 
people. With such a diverse customer 
base, no single customer accounts for 
more than 1% of our total  revenue.
We service our customers through four 
business units: Rental (Uniform Rental 
and Facility Services), First Aid & Safety, 
Fire Protection, and Design Collective. 
Our range of products and services 
includes uniforms, mats, mops, towels, 
restroom supplies, workplace hydration 
offerings, first aid and safety products, 
automated external defibrillators (AEDs), 
eyewash stations, safety training, fire 
extinguishers, sprinkler systems, and 
alarm  services.
FY21 IN NUMBERS
Approximately 
40,000 
employee-
partners $7.11  billion in sales 460 
operational 
facilities 
More than 90%  
of our sales from  
U.S.-based operationsMore than 
1 million 
customers 
in the U.S. 
and Canada$1.11 billion net  income 
13 distribution centersApproximately  
11,000 local  
delivery routes$$$
11
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
Our guiding principles are carefully 
outlined in The Spirit Is The Difference , a 
book based on the personal insights of 
our Founder Richard “Dick” Farmer. The 
publication is referenced frequently by 
executive leadership and  management. 
While the idea of an ESG strategy would 
become popular decades later, the 
philosophy on which Dick based our 
company’s management structure was 
very much ESG-centric. He was ahead of 
his time. 
The Spirit Is The Difference explains how 
we continually strive to prioritize long-
term company value, keep our people 
involved and central to all our decisions, 
and operate in an ethical, moral, and 
compliant manner. These three concepts 
define ESG and bring our corporate 
culture into greater  focus. 
To understand how ESG has been 
embedded in our company from our 
beginnings, it helps to understand 
more about us – and the people behind 
the company. 
At Cintas, we don’t refer to each other 
as employees, staff, or colleagues; we 
refer to each other as partners. The term THE SPIRIT IS THE  DIFFERENCE
partner describes the mutual trust and 
respect we have for each other, and the 
values and culture responsible for our 
accomplishments. Considering each 
other as partners in our collective success 
is crucial to how we operate, and it’s the 
foundation of our corporate culture. It’s 
what makes Cintas so unique and  special. 
Our unique culture at Cintas is just 
as essential as our products and 
services. In fact, it makes all the 
difference, impacting the quality of 
the employee-partners we hire; the 
way we communicate and interact 
with each other, our customers, and 
our suppliers; and our world-class 
performance  standards. 
We credit our success to our corporate 
culture. It’s the cornerstone of our values, 
our behaviors, our way of working, 
and how we approach our business. 
It’s central to creating and maintaining 
strong relationships, and a dedication to 
taking care of one  another.
Our culture has three elements: our 
Principal Objective, our corporate 
character, and our management  system.OUR PRINCIPAL  OBJECTIVE
Dick Farmer believed that organizations 
needed a guiding principle on which 
to base all decision-making and that 
without it, they were doomed for  failure. 
With this in mind, our Board of Directors 
established our Principal Objective in  1979: 
Dick Farmer meets with production employee-partners“  We will exceed our customers’ expectations to maximize 
the long-term value of Cintas for its shareholders and 
working partners.”This statement is woven throughout our 
entire company, gives our organization 
direction, and clearly defines our 
expectations and standards for our 
management team. Decisions made by 
the company are measured against our 
Principal  Objective. 
12
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
OUR CORPORATE  CHARACTER
We’ve carefully considered the 
characteristics and behaviors we want 
and aspire to exhibit to each other, to 
our customers, and to the communities 
in which we do business. These include 
the following.
• Honesty and integrity in everything 
we do:  We do not cheat each other, 
our customers, or our community. We 
give honest answers and an accurate 
accounting of  ourselves. 
• High ethical and moral values: We 
believe in strict separation of business 
and personal affairs. We are very 
careful about gifts, entertainment, and 
business courtesies. We do not want 
to do anything that could place us in 
a compromising position or cause us 
to lose our objectivity. We encourage 
employee-partners to use these basic 
but insightful questions for  guidance:
º Is it legal? Am I complying with law 
or company  policy?
º How will it make me feel 
about  myself?
º How will I feel if my decision is 
made  public?
º Will I feel good if my family knows 
about  it?• Full compliance with all governmental 
laws and regulations: After first 
making sure that we understand the 
governmental laws and regulations that 
we face in business, and our options in 
relation to them, we work to comply. 
There is no other way to run a  business.
• Thoroughness:  If it’s worth doing, 
it’s worth doing right and deserves 
thorough  attention. 
• A Spartan attitude about our 
business: We look at every cost very 
carefully and ask ourselves, “If I were 
buying this with my own money, would I 
spend it on  this?”
• Doing what’s right, not what’s 
expedient:  We don’t target short-term 
gains at the expense of long-term value. 
Instead we focus on what is the right 
thing to  do.
• Humility and respect for all employee-
partners:  Everyone at Cintas makes 
vital contributions to our success. 
We recognize the potential in every 
human being and are careful to involve 
everyone. We want each employee-
partner to be a confident, contributing 
member of the team. Leaders don’t 
have all the answers and many times, the 
smartest and best solutions can come 
from the front lines where the work is 
being  performed. • Professional appearance:  We have 
a dress code at all our facilities and 
believe outward appearances of our 
people, facilities, and vehicles say a lot 
about us and our  company.
• Courtesy:  A hallmark of our 
interactions is plain common 
courtesy – good manners and 
politeness. We believe nice people 
attract nice people and courtesy is 
contagious. This is especially true in a 
service business like  ours. 
• Enthusiasm:  Positive attitudes 
and optimism are a must in a fast-
paced environment like ours. 
A positive outlook goes a long way in 
cultivating  success.
• Competitive urgency: Exceeding 
the needs of our customers and 
fellow employee-partners is a simple, 
overriding business necessity. We 
should attend to details of our 
business with a sense of urgency, 
enthusiasm, professionalism, 
and  thoroughness.• Positive discontent:  We’re never 
satisfied with the status quo, or 
content to leave things as they are. 
We’re always seeking improvements 
to our processes, systems, products, 
and  services. 
OUR MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM
We’re guided by a dynamic management 
system, with policies and procedures 
that help promote our ongoing reliability 
and operational consistency. However, 
we still provide leeway and guidance to 
help our employee-partners to make 
decisions that best suit our customers 
and business  needs.
In fact, we’re a company of systems 
built on established ways of doing 
things. Our policies and procedures are 
specific guidelines describing how to 
handle certain recurring situations. Our 
management system is the constitution 
upon which we run our business and it 
guides us through what we should and 
should not  do. 
 At Cintas, we firmly believe our corporate culture – our 
people and the principles, values, and behaviors we cultivate 
and share – is responsible for our success. And we believe the 
ongoing viability of our culture will have the greatest impact 
on our future accomplishments. 
 The Spirit of Cintas truly is the difference!
13
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
Our Principal Objective ( see pg. 12 ) clearly identifies the three groups we consider our primary stakeholders: customers, employee-partners, and shareholders. At Cintas, each 
is equal to one another. In addition, we have a diverse group of other stakeholders around the world that matter to us and our business. Their opinions and interactions with us 
provide us with other viewpoints that inform our business decisions. These groups include the people who manufacture our products, the communities in which we do business, the 
not-for-profit organizations we engage with, and the government officials who influence and set public policy. Below is an overview of our key stakeholder groups and our engagement 
activities with them during  FY21. STAKEHOLDER  ENGAGEMENT
EMPLOYEE-PARTNERS CUSTOMERS
HOW WE  ENGAGE
• One-on-one, team, and 
company  meetings
• Annual performance  reviews
• Executive leadership emails 
and  videos 
• Personal and professional 
development and  trainings
• Direct interaction (Open  Door  
Policy and management by 
walking  around)
• Social  media
• Engagement  surveys
• Listening  sessions
• Direct Line/Hotline (confidential and 
third-party  monitored)
• Cintas Spirit Day and other holiday 
and milestone celebrations 
and  acknowledgments 
• Volunteerism
• Local committee  participation TOPICS  RAISED
• Competitive wages and  benefits
• Diverse and inclusive  workforce
• Worker health and well-being
• Safety and  health
• Learning and  development
• Environmental and social  impacts
• Partner-centered support, including 
Cintas Partner Assistance  Fund
• Review of how we do business: 
Cintas’ Principal Objective, 
Corporate  Characteristics,  
and Policies and  Procedures
• Our ongoing  management  
of COVID-19-related  issues HOW WE  ENGAGE
• Regular face-to-face interactions as 
we provide  service 
• In-person and virtual meetings to 
review account and progress on  goals
• Customer Service and 1-800 number 
direct  interactions
• myCintas.com customer  portal 
• Market research including Net 
Promoter Score (NPS) survey and 
focus  groups
• Social media monitoring 
and  engagement
• cintas.com and cintascares.com
• Marketing efforts, including 
national television, radio, and online 
ad campaignsTOPICS  RAISED
• Product and service  offerings
• Quality of products and  services
• How Cintas products and services 
impact the end  user
• Business  continuity 
• Sustainable business  practices
• Supply chain  management
• Customer service issues and  requests
• Employee-partner diversity and 
supplier  diversity 
• Governance  issues
• Our management of COVID-19-
related business  practices
14
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
SHAREHOLDERS
SUPPLIERSGOVERNMENT  OFFICIALS  
AND PUBLIC POLICY  INFLUENCERSPHILANTHROPIC AND COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS
HOW WE  ENGAGE
• Annual meeting of  shareholders
• Financial filings (proxy statement, 
Form 10-K,  etc.)
• Quarterly earnings conference  calls
• Investor relations calls as  requested
• Investor conferences and  forums
• Dividends
• Media  engagement 
• Facility tours and virtual  tours
• Proactive visits to  shareholders  
(in-person and  virtually)TOPICS  RAISED
• Financial  performance
• Business and market  conditions
• Allocation of  capital
• Corporate  governance
• Executive  compensation
• ESG  reporting 
• Environmental  impacts
• Diversity and  inclusion
• Human capital  management
• Human rights and labor  practices
• Supply chain  management
• Data security and  privacy
• Civic  activity
• Community and philanthropic  activities
• Our continuing response to COVID-19
HOW WE  ENGAGE
• Regular  meetings
• Trainings 
• Vendor Code of  Conduct
• Periodic  audits  TOPICS  RAISED
• Product quality and  consistency
• Regulatory  compliance
• Supply chain  management
• Performance  reviews
• Transparency and  disclosure
• Materials and  packaging
• Innovation and idea  sharing
• Environmental  impacts
• Human rights and labor  practices
• Supplier  diversity
• Supplier mentorship 
and  developmentHOW WE  ENGAGE
• Meetings with local officials in 
our markets 
• Letters and testimonials (submitted 
and in-person)
• Membership and participation 
in trade associations and policy-
based  organizations
• Meetings with federal- and 
state-elected officials and other 
policy  influencers
• Cintas Partners’  PAC
• Facility tours and virtual  toursTOPICS  RAISED
• Employment and  labor 
• Infrastructure
• Trade
• Taxes
• Climate and  energy
• Diversity and  inclusion 
• Sustainability 
• Trademarks
• Safety and  health
• Community  engagementHOW WE  ENGAGE
• Community partnerships 
and  volunteerism
• Participation in conferences 
and  forums
• Collaborations to advance 
shared  priorities
• Strategic  relationships
• Philanthropic  investments
• Community  dialogues  TOPICS  RAISED
• Philanthropy
• Economic  opportunity
• Safety, preparedness, and  response
• Diverse and inclusive workforce 
and  workplace
• Environmental  impacts
15
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
As the COVID-19 pandemic continued 
throughout FY21, we expanded our 
commitment to supporting our employee-
partners, our customers, and the 
communities in which we do business. 
Through our wide range of essential 
services and products, we were committed 
to doing our part to support our nation’s 
response to the  pandemic. 
PROTECTING OUR EMPLOYEE-PARTNERS
To support our employee-partners’ 
ongoing essential work,  we:
• Enhanced precautions at Cintas locations 
and customer sites through rigorous 
cleaning protocols and safety  practices
• Provided PPE to employee-partners
• Implemented work-from-home schedules 
for those employee-partners whose 
position allowed for  it 
• Instituted a pay protection program 
for employee-partners whose pay was 
dramatically affected by the  pandemic
• Expanded short-term disability  benefits 
• Donated $2 million to the Cintas Partner 
Assistance  Fund
• Continued to provide yearly merit 
increases to front-line employee-partners 
throughout the  pandemic
• Eliminated officer bonus payments and 
reduced named officer salaries by 10% 
to help protect as many jobs as possible 
and ensure our ability to provide 
yearly merit increases to our front-line 
employee-partners
• Encouraged vaccines and provided 
educational and scheduling  resourcesOUR CONTINUED COVID-19  RESPONSE
SUPPORTING OUR  CUSTOMERS
To remain a reliable partner in our 
customers’ ability to get Ready  for  
the Workday®, we:
• Continued delivering essential 
products and crucial services to 
front-line businesses throughout 
the pandemic, including hospitals, 
laboratories, food suppliers, grocery 
stores, and utility  services
• Accelerated production and expanded 
sourcing of hand sanitizers, masks, and 
gloves, to assist customer access to 
these hard-to-find products when they 
were hard to obtain  elsewhere 
• Expanded our facility services to 
include new electrostatic disinfectant 
services, and spray disinfectant and 
sanitizer spray  services
• Launched the Total Clean Program™, 
combining essential cleaning supplies, 
hygienically clean laundering, and 
UltraClean® on-site  services
SERVING OUR  COMMUNITIES
To support the communities in which 
we do business and our philanthropic 
partnerships,  we:
• Donated $3.8 million worth of 
products – including masks, gloves, 
and hand sanitizer – to help protect 
community members from COVID-19
• Actively supported schools, medical 
professionals, police officers, 
firefighters, and emergency medical 
technicians in our local  communities 
16
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS
18 Environment
20 Climate and Energy
25 Water Stewardship
29 Waste and Materials UseENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
17
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTASCINTAS: THE BEST OPTION
Our wide range of products and services not only help our customers  get  
Ready for the Workday®, but also help them save money while offering  them  
a more environmentally considerate  choice. 
Our uniforms and apparel solutions are prime examples of these  savings.
There are four options available 
in the market when it comes 
to laundering: 
• Cintas 
• Our  competitors9 
• Disposable  items 
• At-home laundering or do-it-
yourself  options10
Of these choices, Cintas is the most 
water- and energy-efficient.
In addition, soils and effluents from 
home laundering are discharged directly into the sanitation system, 
while our facilities must meet local 
regulations and permitting standards 
that require us to remove these 
substances from the wastewater before 
it is discharged. 
Even despite recent developments 
in home washing – from low-
temperature detergents to more 
efficient machines  – using Cintas’ 
uniform services reduces the overall 
environmental impact of obtaining, 
washing, and maintaining  them.
CINTAS VS. AT-HOME LAUNDERING
Our laundering process is more water- and energy-efficient than  traditional  
at-home laundering processes. Not only do we utilize fewer natural resources when 
processing the same amount of laundry compared to at-home launderers, we’re 
also able to maximize our load sizes to reduce our total number of wash cycles, 
which further helps reduce our overall environmental impact. In short, we’re  able  
to wash much more with much  less. 
Traditional at-home laundry processes draw, on  average:
Environmental consciousness is in our 
roots, with our company origins in a 
business practice that reclaimed and 
reused shop rags from local factories. 
To this day, we strive to minimize our 
environmental footprint and preserve 
natural resources while considering 
the current and future impacts on our 
employee-partners and our customers, 
and the communities in which we 
do business. 
As part of our new ambition to achieve 
Net Zero GHG emissions by 2050 , we will identify strategies to reduce our 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and 
explore opportunities to reduce Scope 3 
GHG emissions from our supply chain. 
We will also continue to identify ways 
to reduce energy, water, raw materials, 
and waste throughout our business. We 
remain committed to innovating and 
exploring new technologies that will be 
necessary in our Net Zero  journey.
To increase the positive impact we have 
on the environment, we have begun 
investing in our fleet and introducing ENVIRONMENT
9 See pg. 68: Appendix > Referenced Calculations > Cintas vs. TRSA Industry Comparisons. 
10 See pg. 68: Appendix > Referenced Calculations > Cintas vs. At-Home Laundry Comparisons.vehicles that don’t consume carbon-
based fuel, and we’re rolling out “Smart 
Truck” technology to improve our route 
planning, which will help decrease 
fuel use, increase fuel efficiency, and 
lower  emissions.
In our facilities, we continue our work 
to reduce our carbon footprint by 
identifying ways to lower our energy 
use. We have also been successful 
in improving water conservation 
throughout our operations and are 
exploring ways to increase reuse in an effort to further lessen our overall water 
withdrawal rates. Our “Zero Waste 
Program” ( see pg. 29 ) is helping to divert 
thousands of tons of waste from  landfill.
By innovating with materials, we are 
exploring ways to create circular 
economies – and even closed-loop 
systems – for our  apparel. 
Our humble, sustainable beginnings almost 
100 years ago remain the foundation for 
our business processes  today. 
1.90 gallons of  water  
Traditional At-Home  Laundering1.03 gallons of  water  
Cintas
84%  more water than  Cintas
2,143 Btu of  energy  
Traditional At-Home  Laundering1,530 Btu of  energy  
Cintas
69%  more energy than  Cintas
Greater detail about the comparisons between Cintas’ laundering process and  
at-home laundering can be found in the Appendix on pg.  68.
18
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
THE IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON 
INTENSITY  MEASURES 
In FY21, our emissions, energy, and 
water intensities all saw reductions of 
at least 5.6% over our FY20 values when 
indexed by our new revenue metric. 
Although we realized reductions in our 
environmental intensities, we believe 
the reductions were not as large as they 
might have been in the absence of the 
COVID-19  pandemic.11
Many of our customers are non-essential 
businesses that had varying abilities 
to operate during state and local 
quarantine orders, which impacted the 
mix of items processed by our Rental 
facilities. This resulted in a significant 
reduction in items that used standard, 
lower-intensity cleaning processes, 
including general uniforms, and 
garments and  mats. 
At the same time, we met a dramatic 
increase in demand for our hygienic 
cleaning processes, fulfilling the increased 
needs of many essential businesses – 
including hospitals, medically related 
businesses, and food service  providers. 
Additionally, the proportion of uniforms 
from public utility and municipal 
customers rose in comparison, and 
these garments tended to be dirtier and 
required more  cleaning. 
11 See pg. 67: Appendix > Notes & Methodologies > COVID-19 Effect on Data and Performance.
12 See pg. 70: Appendix > Referenced Calculations > COVID-19’s Impact on Wash Mix and Metrics per Hundredweight. (Cwt).
13 See pg. 68: Appendix > Referenced Calculations > Cintas vs. TRSA Industry Comparisons.
14 U.S. Rental Operations revenues for FY21.RECALCULATING INTENSITY VALUES
At Cintas, we have begun calculating 
our environmental intensity values 
for energy, emissions, and water in 
relation to million dollars in revenue. 
Our business services industry tends 
to calculate intensity values as a 
measure of the weight of laundry 
processed in pounds, but we believe 
a metric indexed by revenues better 
represents and reflects our company’s 
entire  business. 
Intensity metrics have become 
increasingly important as our business 
grows. By adjusting our  intensity  
values to an index of revenues,  we  
will now be able to make like-for-like, 
year-over-year comparisons of  our environmental performance. This 
will help us identify the impacts of 
operational improvements while we 
continue to expand reporting across 
our entire  organization.
For the purpose of this report, 
we use our new revenue metric to 
explain our own performance from 
FY19 through FY21. In the situations 
throughout this report where we 
compare our performance against our 
industry, we do so after converting 
both Cintas data and TRSA data to 
comparable units and utilizing the 
per-pound denominator. That data 
and methodology is provided later in 
this report.13
MEASURE UNIT FY20 FY21 % CHANGE
Energy Intensity GJ/$M 1,452.53 1,346.74 -7.3%
Emissions Intensity MTCO 2e/$M 96.57 88.59 -8.3%
Water Intensity ML/$M 0.214 0.202 -5.6%
Revenues14 $M $5,243 $5,267 0.46%
Poundage CWT 24,298,215 22,239,728 -8.5%
INTENSITY  VALUESThe effect of these temporary conditions 
increased the number of rinse cycles 
necessary – as well as the water 
temperature required – to achieve 
the necessary level of cleaning. This 
increased both our water and our energy 
usage in FY21. While our total poundage 
laundered in FY21 decreased, the total 
energy and water required to launder the 
same poundage increased per Cwt over 
FY20.12
Greater detail about the impact of 
COVID-19 on our efficiencies, indexed by 
poundage, can be found in the Appendix 
on pg.  70. 
Regardless of those changes, however, 
realizing greater production efficiencies 
in FY21 allowed us to overcome the 
temporary effects that COVID-19 had on 
our wash mix. So, even as we decreased 
production volume in FY21 as a result 
of COVID-19, we saw net improvements 
in our emissions, energy, and water 
intensity values per million dollars in 
revenue in FY21 compared to  FY20.
19
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
15 See pg. 66: Appendix > Definitions > Global Supply Chain Suppliers. 
16 See pg. 67: Appendix > Notes & Methodologies > Environment Data Expansion in 2021 ESG Report and Emissions Data Restatements.
17 See pg. 67: Appendix > Notes & Methodologies > Environment Data Expansion in 2021 ESG Report and Emissions Data Restatements.CLIMATE AND  ENERGY 
We recognize climate change is a global 
issue and is something businesses have to 
consider and address moving forward. The 
risks we face at Cintas are broad and can 
have both financial and physical impacts, 
on both ourselves and our  customers. 
With an interest in protecting the future 
of our environment, our communities, 
and our business, we have implemented 
initiatives and programs that support 
climate action by reducing our GHG 
emissions and energy  use. 
As we continue with our enterprise 
business review in relation to our ESG 
priorities, we expect to identify goals and 
targets to help bolster our ambition to 
achieve Net Zero by 2050. We also intend 
to collaborate with our “Global Supply 
Chain Suppliers”15 to collect their Scope 1 
and 2 emissions data, and plan to work with 
them to identify ways to reduce their GHG 
emissions across their own value  chains. 
Lowering our Scope 3 emissions, as well 
as minimizing our downstream water 
use, waste, and raw materials needs, will 
also be vital to achieving our ambition of achieving Net Zero GHG emissions while 
simultaneously lessening the overall 
environmental impact of our value  chain. 
LOWERING GHG  EMISSIONS
Emissions From Our Operations
The consumption of energy and fuel by 
our U.S. Rental operations16 results in 
GHG  emissions.
In FY21, our GHG emissions for U.S. Rental 
operations totaled 466,628 metric tons 
of carbon dioxide equivalents (MTCO 2e). 
This represents a 7.8% reduction over 
FY20, and a gross reduction of 14.3% 
compared to FY19. Our Scope 1 GHG 
emissions were almost 6.3% lower than in 
FY20, and our Scope 2 emissions fell by 
almost 14.0%. 
Various Operational Excellence initiatives 
(see pg. 23 ) – which built on our wash chemistry conversion initiative TRUpathTM 
(see pg. 25 ) – were implemented 
across the business and contributed 
to improved wash cycle times, load 
capacity, and other process efficiencies. 
These have helped reduce both GHG 
emissions and energy  use. 
Reducing Vehicle Emissions 
We have one of the largest commercial 
vehicle fleets in the United States, and 
we’re identifying ways to reduce our 
vehicle  emissions.
In an effort to continue lowering our 
Scope 1 emissions, we’ve eliminated 
almost one-third of our diesel-fueled 
fleet in the United States over the last 
four years. We expect to replace our 
remaining diesel-burning vehicles in 
California by the end of 2021 ( see pg. 22 ), 
and we expect to introduce the first all-electric vehicles into our fleet as test 
samples later this year ( see pg. 25 ).
In addition, we began to install Smart 
Truck technology in our Rental division 
fleet in late 2020. This technology 
assesses time spent driving and idling, 
makes route planning more efficient, and 
helps improve fuel efficiency, among 
other expected benefits ( see pg. 21 ). 
Consistent with our Net Zero ambition, 
we’ll continue to explore and evaluate 
strategies to reduce the climate footprint 
of our fleet through a variety of means – 
including increasing fuel efficiency, using 
alternative-fuel vehicles, and optimizing 
our routing – as well as working with our 
transportation vendors to identify new 
and emerging technologies that may 
help further our  efforts. We reduced 
our total CO 2e 
emissions from U.S. 
Rental operations 
by 7.8% in FY21.
U.S. RENTAL FACILITIES AND FLEET17UNITS FY19 FY20 FY21
Scope 1 (gross direct) MTCO 2e  428,551 403,030 377,772
Scope 2 (indirect) MTCO 2e 116,0 05 103,285 88,857
Total Scope 1+2 Emissions MTCO 2e 544,555 506,315 466,628
    Annual Scope 1+2 Emissions Reductions MTCO 2e n/a  38,240 39,687
     % Annual Change in Scope 1+2 Emissions % n/a -7.0% -7.8%
     % Change from Base Year (FY19) % n/a -7.0% -14.3%
GHG Emissions Intensity MTCO 2e/$M 105.78 96.57 88.59
    Annual Gross Emissions Reductions MTCO 2e n/a -9.21 -7.97EMISSIONS DATA AND  PERFORMANCE 
20
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
With a service fleet as large as 
ours – which makes many stops along 
millions of miles – we explored how 
small changes to routes and driver 
habits could have big impacts on our 
outcomes. This work culminated in 
our Smart Truck technology, launched 
in late  2020.
Our Smart Truck program provides us 
with detailed data on routing, drive 
time, and idle time, among other 
things. Already installed on more 
than 9,800 vehicles, we have been 
monitoring data and trends, and 
gaining insights that we believe will 
help us make impactful changes to 
our routing operations into the  future.
Changing Driver Behavior
Leaving our trucks to idle at each 
customer stop – instead of turning the 
engine off – was one driver habit we 
sought to influence. Reducing a truck’s 
idle time could have an immediate 
effect on our environmental impact, 
since one hour of idling burns about 
one gallon of gas and results in four 
pounds of CO 2 emissions. As Smart Truck technology was 
installed in our trucks and we began 
analyzing data, we observed reductions 
in idle times as our drivers were more 
educated about the system. As the 
program becomes fully operational 
across our Rental division and the new 
driver habits become more engrained, 
we expect to make greater cumulative 
reductions in our idle time  averages. 
Future Efficiencies Resulting  
From Smart Truck
As more complete and established 
data is collected across our Rental 
fleet, we expect our Smart Truck 
technology will help us identify and 
create more efficient routes. These 
ongoing changes would help us 
provide better customer experiences 
while simultaneously decreasing our 
miles driven and fuel usage while we 
serve the same  customers. 
Better routing efficiency also means 
we increase route capacity, potentially 
serving more customers without 
adding extra vehicles to the  fleet. Our Smart Truck technology has 
already demonstrated the  potential  
of efficiency gains from changing 
behaviors. As we dig deeper into the 
data from this technology, we expect to 
identify opportunities for even greater 
gains across our business, especially 
in our fuel consumption and GHG 
emissions – lowering both our costs 
and our environmental  impact.
SPOTLIGHT:  SMART TRUCK  TECHNOLOGY 
Smart Truck technology will help us create more efficient routes and help us reduce our 
environmental  impact. 
21
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
SPOTLIGHT:  TRANSFORMING OUR  FLEET
With one of the largest corporate fleets 
in North America, we have more than 
14,000 vehicles on the road, consisting 
of our familiar white service trucks and 
vans and our lease-back employee-
partner  cars. 
Our fleet is central to our success and 
enables our service professionals to 
help businesses get Ready ™ to open 
their doors with  confidence. 
After a review of our commercial 
fleet, we have implemented two key 
initiatives intended to help lower our 
fossil fuel use and Scope 1  emissions:
• Removing diesel-burning  vehicles  
from our  fleet
• Deploying our first all-electric 
vehicles into full-time  service
Removing Diesel-Burning Vehicles
The most expansive element of this 
fleet revitalization has been the steady 
removal of diesel-burning vehicles from 
our fleet. 
We started this process in FY18, when 
45% of our U.S. Rental service vehicles 
ran on diesel fuel. Four years later, by 
the end of FY21, this percentage had 
fallen to 31% – or 3,017 of our 9,783 U.S. 
Rental service  vehicles. 
Further, we expect to finalize the 
replacement of 181 diesel-burning 
vehicles in California by the end of 
2021. This is much sooner than the 2023 
deadline for those vehicle types set by the California Air Resources Board, 
which requires that various types of 
vehicles must meet specific exhaust 
emissions  standards. 
Welcoming Electric Vehicles
Our service fleet is a significant source 
of our Scope 1 GHG emissions, so 
we’re excited to introduce our first 
fully electric vehicles later this fiscal 
year. Cintas understands that moving 
from fossil-fuel-powered vehicles to 
alternative-powered vehicles will be an 
important factor in our ability to reduce 
our GHG  emissions.
Our previous attempts to test and 
introduce alternative-fuel vehicles – 
including electric, compressed natural 
gas (CNG), and hybrid vehicles – have 
faced  challenges. 
For example, unlike traditional delivery 
vehicles, our service vehicles do not get 
lighter during the day. This is especially 
true of those used at our uniform rental 
locations, where service representatives 
collect dirty and soiled garments 
throughout the day, resulting in relatively 
constant payloads at the beginning 
and end of their routes. Earlier electric 
vehicle technology did not produce 
enough consistent power or battery life 
to make those options viable for  Cintas. 
We currently have a small number of 
CNG-powered vehicles in our fleet, but 
these vehicles perform better during 
continuous or long-distance driving conditions, rather than the start-
and-stop situations our route-based 
model  presents. 
Additionally, prior efforts to use hybrid 
vehicles also faced hurdles because 
of our route-based model, as well as 
the dissolution of a key producer of 
commercial-grade hybrids. Current 
hybrid technology has yet to meet our 
unique business needs – including miles 
traveled, time on route, and payloads – 
but we continue to work with hybrid 
suppliers to identify a viable  solution. 
With the unique nature of our business 
services industry, we challenged 
electric vehicle vendors to develop 
solutions that meet our unique fleet 
needs. Now, manufacturers of the 
newest electric service vehicles are 
committed to delivering the power 
and durability necessary to meet 
more of our business needs and help 
us operate in a more sustainable and 
environmentally conscious  way. By January 2022, we expect to deploy 
13 electric vehicles from three different 
producers into service. Six Rental and 
two First Aid & Safety locations in the 
Northeast and Upper Midwest, and on 
the West Coast will receive these first 
electric vehicles. Incorporating a small 
number of electric vehicles into our 
operations will allow us to evaluate their 
performance, durability, and reliability 
in a variety of business  conditions. 
Verifying that electric vehicles can 
successfully perform in our route-based 
business model is important as we 
investigate possible means to reduce 
our Scope 1 GHG emissions. If these 
first models perform as anticipated, 
we expect to pilot additional electric 
service vehicles and begin a review 
of a more robust e-vehicle strategy 
that could assist with our ambition 
of reducing our business footprint’s 
Scope 1 GHG  emissions.
22
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
REDUCING ENERGY  USE
Energy is vital to our business, and 
using it efficiently is critical to our long-
term success. It is also part of our role 
as responsible corporate citizens to 
seek reductions in our overall energy 
consumption and adopt more efficient 
practices so our energy goes further. 
Our ongoing commitment to the 
environment and the communities in 
which we do business is evident from 
our processes and innovations: from 
lighting upgrades in our facilities to 
Operational Excellence initiatives that 
make our laundering processes more 
energy  efficient.
At our U.S. Rental locations, the energy 
we use includes electricity (primarily 
for lighting and process equipment) 
and fuel – including natural gas and 
propane, among others – for dryers, 
boilers, steam tunnels, and facility 
heat. Our overall energy use totals also 
include our fuel use from diesel and 
gasoline to power our  fleet. 
Using Our Energy Efficiently 
Identifying ongoing reductions in 
our energy use and lowering energy 
intensity are priorities. In FY21, our U.S. 
Rental operations reported a 12.5% 
reduction in energy use since FY19, 
driven in large part by energy-efficiency 
initiatives at our processing facilities 
(see pg. 26). Natural gas represents the majority 
of our gross energy consumption, 
accounting for 3.6 million gigajoules 
(GJ) in FY21 – a 7.1% reduction from 
our FY20 natural gas usage. We’ve 
also made significant improvements 
to increase productivity while making 
our processes more efficient without 
adding substantial capital costs. These 
Operational Excellence initiatives have 
included more accurately measuring 
soiled-load weight to help lower our 
water, energy, and chemical  use. 
• Our continued reduction in energy 
use – including a 14.4% reduction 
in electric since FY19 – is a result of 
several initiatives, such as our LED 
lighting initiative ( see pg. 24 ). 
18  We include fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam in our energy intensity ratio. Ratio uses energy consumption within the organization. U.S. RENTAL FACILITIES AND FLEET UNITS FY19 FY20 FY21
Total Energy Consumption GJ 8,102,045 7,615,622 7,093,273
   % Change YOY % n/a -6.0% -6.9%
   Electricity GJ 934,117 886,558 799,575
   Natural Gas GJ 4,122,243 3,862,060 3, 587,198
   Propane GJ 17, 577 14,146 19,507
   Gasoline GJ 1,801,652 1,836,400 1,843,892
   Diesel GJ 1,138,275 914,049 721,415
   E85 GJ 88,163 102,409 121,685
   Methanol GJ 18 1 1
Change from Base Year (FY19) GJ  n/a -486,423 -1,008,772
   % Change from Base Year (FY19) % n/a -6.0% -12.5%
Energy Intensity Ratio18GJ/$M 1,573.82 1,452.53 1,346.74
ENERGY DATA AND  PERFORMANCE
23
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
SPOTLIGHT:  MAKING THE SWITCH TO LED  LIGHTING 
With almost 500 locations of all sizes 
across the United States and Canada, we 
have a lot of facility square footage that 
needs appropriate lighting. But that also 
means we have significant energy use 
from our  lighting.
In FY19, we kicked off a company-wide 
project to lower our energy use at some 
of our most energy-intensive locations. 
The project followed smaller, individual 
LED-installation initiatives at several 
locations that provided early evidence 
of the significant reductions in energy 
use that LED lighting could provide in 
our facilities. 
Currently, we have replaced (or are in 
the process of replacing) facility lighting 
with LED alternatives at more than 
100 locations – including our distribution 
centers and processing sites – that 
represent almost 5.9 million square feet 
of facilities. 
Our LED lighting conversions have 
already produced a reduction of more 
than 16 million kilowatt hours of energy 
a year, and this will increase as all of 
the facilities identified for conversion in 
the current wide-scale project are fully 
converted. Almost 27,000 incandescent 
and fluorescent lighting fixtures have 
been swapped out so far, and the 
company-wide project is expected to be 
completed by the end of  FY22. With about 60% of the locations 
participating in the current company-
wide project already fully converted, 
the wide-scale LED lighting initiative 
has reduced our GHG emissions by 
almost 7,500 metric tons a year – 
which represents a 5% reduction in 
our electricity use and our Scope 2 
emissions. Our energy use should 
continue to decrease as the wide-scale 
conversion project is  completed. 
We’ve reduced 
our annual energy 
use by lighting 
by more than 
16 million kWh
Almost 27,000 
fixtures have been 
replaced so far
The LED lighting 
project has 
reduced our Scope 
2 emissions by  
5% so far.
The LED lighting project has reduced our Scope 2 emissions by 5% so  far.
24
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
WATER  STEWARDSHIP 
Water is a central resource to our 
business, and a necessary input to 
perform our services. Because of our 
reliance on water, we recognize our 
responsibility to minimize our water draw 
and to discharge the water we do use in 
an environmentally responsible  way. 
Lessening our dependence on freshwater 
is part of being a responsible corporate 
citizen, but it also makes sound business 
sense. The less water we use, the lower 
our costs are. Our water-use strategy has 
three main components: conservation 
and minimization of the water we draw; 
process efficiencies that further reduce 
water use; and water-reuse  technologies.
OUR WATER  JOURNEY
For the last 30 years, we’ve been 
working to develop and innovate more 
conscientious and responsible water 
management practices. Our efforts have 
not only benefited our own business – 
by reducing our water and lowering our 
costs – but have also pushed our industry 
to improve its water  practices. 
Throughout our water journey, we’ve 
challenged our partners and vendors to 
innovate and modernize the commercial 
laundry industry. We’ve led the way in 
optimizing wash formulas; testing and 
implementing water-saving and water 
reuse technologies; and adopting 
common-sense behaviors that, when 
working together, significantly reduce 
our freshwater draw and lower our  costs. Water Conservation
We’re proud of our water-conservation 
efforts, and we know our commitment 
has had a larger impact on the entire 
industry. Throughout the last few 
decades, we’ve focused on minimizing 
our draw from freshwater  sources.
Most recently, between FY15 and 
FY20, we reduced our gallons of water 
needed to wash a pound of laundry by a 
combined  16%. 
Wash chemistry technology has been 
central to decreasing our water use. Our 
work with our long-time, award-winning vendor, WSI, to develop more efficient 
wash formulas has been critical in helping 
us lower our gallons-per-pound  metric.
Early on in our journey, locations in 
water-stressed areas faced strict water 
restrictions, and we worked with WSI to 
create wash formulas that required less 
water. Not only did that work help meet 
the locations’ water use requirements, 
but it also benefited our entire laundry 
business – and the industry. Meanwhile, 
we continued to find ways to engineer 
our water needs and energy  use. Wash chemistry developments like the 
Clearpath and, most recently, TRUpathTM 
formulations have helped us lower our 
water usage even more. TRUpath™ alone 
has helped us reduce our gallons-per-
pound mark by an average of 11% across 
all laundry facilities since we introduced 
it in  FY19. 
And even while we use less water, our 
processing plants and our wash process 
continue to meet hygienically clean 
certification standards, which is critical to 
our customers.
25
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
Operational Improvements 
and Efficiencies 
Technology has propelled us far 
along our water journey, but our 
improvements in water usage have 
also been supported by traditional 
ingenuity and accountability. We call this 
additional layer of conscientiousness 
“Operational  Excellence.”
Our belief in positive discontent pushes 
us to constantly review how we can be 
more efficient and more precise with 
our laundering process, and realize the 
greatest impact from our technological 
advances like our wash chemistry 
and  formulas. 
Our staff of environmental engineers, 
research and development engineers, 
and Six Sigma Black Belts work with 
facility management employee-partners 
to identify potential improvements in 
both efficiency and costs. They also help 
ensure any new processes maintain our 
strict quality standards and compliance 
to process  certifications. 
We’re continually refining our operations 
and uncovering better ways to 
execute the same processes. These 
layered-on proprietary techniques and 
processes often separate us further 
from our competitors, and especially 
from at-home laundering. After we 
fully implemented TRUpath™ at our 
processing locations by the end of 
FY19, our gallon-per-pound metric 
decreased 9.5% year-over-year in FY20, 
demonstrating the stand-alone impact 
of our Operational Excellence initiatives 
over a full  year. Just as Doc and Amelia Farmer proved 
during the Great Depression, a little 
ingenuity goes a long way in making a 
big impact. As we continue to identify 
and implement Operational Excellence, 
we lessen our water draw – and lower 
our costs – even more. Operational 
Excellence plays hand in hand with 
science to make us better at what we do 
and how we do it, and ultimately lower 
our water use and  costs. 
Thirty years into our water journey, we 
believe ingenuity, chemistry, and laundry 
technology have driven us close to the 
potential floor of our water use by those 
means. But we believe we can be even 
better and minimize our use further. 
The next stage of our water journey is 
maximizing our water reuse  strategy.
Water Reuse
Water reuse technology has been around 
for decades, from technologies as simple 
as tablets to make water potable in the 
wild to full-scale industrial systems that 
take used water and treat it for various 
non-potable  needs. 
Currently, we are reusing substantial 
amounts of water at some facilities, while 
we work toward increasing our reuse at 
other facilities where it’s  practical. 
To date, we’ve tested many reuse 
technologies during our water journey 
and implemented several of them across 
our business. As reuse technologies 
evolve, we will continue to assess how 
effective they are and how they may work 
in our business  model. While we have reuse capabilities 
integrated in some of our locations, 
challenges exist that limit greater 
adoption within our wash process. We 
will never be able to reuse 100% of our 
wash water because evaporation naturally 
removes a percentage of the water we use. 
Plus, specific limitations exist in some of 
our cleaning processes for some particular 
garments. Additionally, concerns exist with 
the ability of some current technologies 
to perform consistently at scale against 
international hygiene standards, but 
development continues in those  areas. 
We believe focusing on reuse is our 
next big opportunity to make significant 
improvements to our water draw. We may 
never reach a point where we can conduct our business in an entirely closed-loop 
water system, but we believe we can 
leverage reuse technology to achieve a 
greater capacity than we do  now. 
We’ve made fantastic advances in our 
water journey and have reduced our water 
draw significantly through the years. 
Industry data has proven Cintas is the 
most water- and energy-efficient choice 
to wash garments, be it commercially19 
or with at-home options. Yet we want to 
push our water use metrics even  lower. 
Our water journey has been filled with 
advances and success, and we believe 
we must keep innovating solutions that 
lessen our use of natural resources 
even  further.
19  See pg. 68: Appendix > Referenced Calculations > Cintas vs. TRSA Industry Comparisons.
26
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
REDUCING OUR WATER  NEEDS
While our laundry process is on average 
84% more water efficient than traditional 
at-home laundry processes,20 we are 
constantly working to reduce our 
water  footprint.
In FY21, our U.S. Rental operations 
withdrew 8,861 megaliters21 (ML) of 
freshwater – 7.6% less than FY20 and 
14.4% less than  FY19. 
The water used in our U.S. Rental 
facilities in FY21 was sourced from 
12 major river basins, with five sources 
comprising more than 80% of our water: 
Mississippi–Missouri Rivers (36.2%), Gulf 
of Mexico (16.0%), St. Lawrence River 
(10.6%), North Atlantic Coast (9.5%), and 
the state of California (9.4%).
We rely on a mix of water efficiency 
projects and operational process 
improvements to reduce our reliance 
on freshwater. For example, while most 
of the water we use for our U.S. Rental 
operations is purchased from third 
parties, we treat and reuse water – where 
available – for rinsing  mats. 
We have also installed water reclamation 
and reuse systems at many facilities, 
and we’re exploring expanding the use 
of techniques like ceramic membrane 
filtration to more facilities in the next 
few years. While membrane systems can 
be more costly and difficult to maintain, 
systems installed at our acquired 
locations have resulted in higher levels 
of reuse than traditional wastewater 
pretreatment  systems.As our water use has evolved, we’ve 
moved from a compliance-based water 
management process to one that 
prioritizes reducing consumption and 
increasing innovation. This is a strategy we 
will continue to prioritize moving  forward.
WATER RISK  ASSESSMENTS
We regularly evaluate ways to reduce 
water withdrawal in water-stressed 
regions. In FY21, we withdrew 2,021 ML 
from those regions, which was 5.5% less 
than in  FY20. 
20  See pg. 68: Appendix > Referenced Calculations > Cintas vs. At-Home Laundry Comparisons.
21  See pg. 67: Appendix > Notes & Methodologies > Water Data Assumptions.
22  See pg. 67: Appendix > Notes & Methodologies > Water Data Assumptions. 
23 We calculate total water consumption as the measure in our water intensity ratio. U.S. RENTAL FACILITIES UNITS FY19 FY20 FY21
Total Water Withdrawal ML 10,355 9,591 8,861
   Total Water Withdrawal – Stressed Regions ML 2,308 2,139 2,021
Annual Change in Water Withdrawal ML n/a -764 -730
   % Change YOY % n/a -7.4% -7.6%
   % Change from Base Year (FY19) % n/a -7.4% -14.4%
Total Water Discharge ML 9,142 8,471 7,798
   Total Water Discharge – Stressed Regions ML 1,953 1,808 1,704
Annual Change in Water Discharge ML n/a -671 -673
   % Change YOY % n/a -7.3% -7.9 %
   % Change from Base Year (FY19) % n/a -7.3% -14.7
Total Water Consumption22ML 1,213 1,120 1,063
    Total Water Consumption – Stressed Regions ML 355 331 317
Annual Change in Water Consumption ML n/a -93 -57
   % Change YOY % n/a -7.7% -5.1%
   % Change from Base Year (FY19) % n/a -7.7% -12.4%
Water Intensity23ML/$M 0.236 0.214 0.202
WATER USE DATA AND  PERFORMANCE 
Our 2021 water risk assessment 
identified 38 U.S. Rental plants in areas 
experiencing high to extremely high 
water stress. Water sourced from these 
areas accounts for 22.8% of FY21 total 
water  withdrawal. 
To lessen operational expense and 
reduce our reliance on freshwater, Cintas 
has installed water reclamation systems 
at several plants located in these water-
stressed areas and we’re investigating 
the potential to install more in the 
future. These treat wastewater from our industrial-size washing machines for 
reuse for the same processes, or recycle 
it for different  uses.
Cintas is a charter 
member of the 
Laundry Environmental 
Stewardship Program 
(LaundryESP®).
27
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
SPOTLIGHT:  OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE IN  ACTION
While technology has played a key 
role in our water journey – and will still 
be important as we continue honing 
conservation methods and innovating 
our reuse strategy – other seemingly 
simple initiatives have also contributed 
to our progress in reducing our water 
and energy needs throughout the  years.
We call these proprietary operational 
process improvements, or simply 
“Operational  Excellence.” 
We’ve made significant improvements 
by implementing more efficiency in our 
process, without adding substantial 
capital costs. More effective processes, 
as well as increased employee-
partner training and accountability, have considerably reduced our water 
withdrawals and energy use. Being 
precise in what we do and how we 
do it has had a major impact. We’ve 
found that as we increase the accuracy 
of our processes, the technology and 
innovations we’ve introduced become 
even more  effective.
Our latest Operational Excellence 
initiative is a proprietary process that 
helps measure soiled-load weight 
more precisely. More accurate 
measurements help provide more 
precise data on every load we wash, 
help improve the efficacy of our wash 
alley, and help us lower our water, 
energy, and chemical  use. The added information helps plant 
management identify potential 
inefficiencies, holds capacity specialist 
employee-partners more accountable 
for how they load their wash slings, 
and, ultimately, helps make our entire 
laundry process more  efficient. 
Early implementations have 
demonstrated just how much of an 
impact this process improvement will 
have when it’s fully rolled out across 
the company. Based on the pilot 
program, we estimate it will improve 
our operational efficiency by more 
than 13%, reduce our annual water 
draw by more than 350 million gallons, 
and save more than $16 million in utility 
and chemistry  costs.
ENVIRONMENTALLY 
FRIENDLY DETERGENTS
Instead of using harsh dry-cleaning 
solvents, we use NPE25-free detergents 
that are more environmentally friendly. 
We are the first industrial launderer 
to employ washing standards that 
are 100% free from NPE, phosphates, 
and EDTA26 in all our North American 
laundry  facilities.
24  See pg. 68: Appendix > Referenced Calculations > Cintas vs. At-Home Laundry Comparisons.
25 Nonylphenol ethoxylate.
26 Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. MANAGING  WASTEWATER
In FY21, we returned 7,798 ML – or 88% – 
of the freshwater we withdrew to local 
water  bodies.
Our laundering processes generate far 
less wastewater than home laundering 
because we use less water to launder 
the same amount of product. We use an 
average of 1.0 gallons of water per pound, 
compared to home laundering’s average 
of 1.9 gallons of water per pound.24
Unlike home laundering processes, 
we pretreat and reuse our discharge 
washing process effluent. Further, 
our discharge that flows into publicly 
owned water treatment systems 
is released in compliance with the 
respective local discharge standards and 
permitting  requirements. 
28
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
WASTE AND MATERIALS  USE 
Due to the nature of our business, 
we work with a significant amount of 
material. Taking a responsible approach 
to the way we source, dispose of, 
and manage our inputs makes sound 
business sense. It is also key to our 
ongoing efforts to create a broader 
circular economy for our garment 
products. Additionally, we are striving to 
meet our customers, employee-partners, 
and stakeholders’ growing expectations 
for more sustainable product  offerings. 
We have a long track record of reducing, 
reusing, and recycling waste. In fact, 
that’s how Doc and Amelia started 
our company. As we continue our 
organizational review, we expect to 
report more in-depth information 
regarding our efforts on waste in future 
editions of our ESG Report. Meanwhile, 
we continue to look for ways to reduce 
waste in our  operations. 
For example, our Zero Waste Program 
began in 2013 in an effort to decrease 
our waste destined for landfill and has 
continued through FY21. The program 
covers eight of our distribution centers, 
each implementing location-specific 
processes that divert more than 90% of 
their waste away from landfill so they 
are TRUE Certified by Green Business 
Certification  Inc. Through our Design Collective business, 
we are developing new ways to reuse and 
recycle material. Our goal is to develop 
circular – and even closed-loop – 
economies that reduce our reliance on 
raw materials and meet growing interest 
in sustainable garments ( see pg. 30 ).
We currently record waste data from 
our distribution centers in Ashland, Ky.; 
Chicago, Ill.; Dallas, Texas; Mason, Ohio; 
Mississauga, Ont.; Montgomery, Ala.; 
Reno, Nev.; and Scranton City, Pa. At 
these locations in FY21, waste to landfill 
was 131.9 U.S. tons, and our overall 
diversion rate was 94.4%. Our Zero Waste Program began in 
FY13 in an effort to decrease our 
waste destined for landfills. The 
program initially included seven 
of our distribution centers, each 
implementing location-specific plans 
to increase their landfill  diversions. 
After two years of planning and 
training, and two more years to 
implement and monitor the program, 
Cintas was TRUE Certified by Green 
Business Certification Inc. at all 
seven locations in FY17. In FY19, 
our Chicago distribution center 
was the most recent facility to gain 
its TRUE Certification, which it has 
since  maintained. 
In FY21, all eight distribution centers 
that participate in our Zero Waste 
Program were recertified as TRUE 
Certified. This confirmed that each 
location diverted at least 90% of 
its waste from landfills, resulting 
in a 94.4% diversion rate across all 
participating facilities last  year. 
In FY21, that resulted in our 
distribution centers diverting 
1,188 tons of cardboard, 48 tons 
of plastic, 75 tons of co-mingled 
products, 176 tons of fabric, 601 tons 
of pallets, and 59 tons of paper from landfills. The Mason, Ohio, distribution 
center, which is attached to Cintas’ 
corporate headquarters, posted a 
97.98% diversion rate in FY21 – the 
best-ever mark by a Cintas  location. 
Part of our diversion efforts in 
FY21 included redirecting 50 tons 
of products and other items from 
distribution centers that can benefit 
others to Matthew 25: Ministries and 
other charitable  organizations. 
The success of this program 
is defined by our distribution 
employee-partners’ commitment to 
our Zero Waste goals. Each location 
has its own Green Team that supports 
our production employee-partners’ 
efforts to reduce, reuse, and recycle 
our waste. 
They educate, motivate, and monitor 
each site’s work, coordinate with 
our corporate Global Supply Chain 
staff, and share best practices across 
the organization. 
We will continue to work with all of 
our locations to help maximize waste 
diversion. The buy-in and support of 
our employee-partners has shown 
us there is a tremendous appetite 
to expand this type of initiative 
throughout our  organization. 
SPOTLIGHT:  ZERO WASTE  PROGRAM
In FY21, Cintas 
donated 216 tons  of 
reclaimed materials to 
Matthew 25: Ministries
29
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
SPOTLIGHT:  MATERIALS  INNOVATION 
Our Design Collective business 
(recorded as Uniform Direct Sales 
in our financial filings) creates and 
sells custom uniform programs, with 
customers that include some of the 
world’s largest companies and travel 
and hospitality brands. This business 
division has been our champion of 
fabric and materials innovation and it 
continues to imagine ways to create a 
more circular economy and, potentially, 
an entirely closed-loop system for 
our apparel. 
The Design Collective’s sustainable 
garment programs help divert more 
end-of-life garments and materials 
from landfills and lessen our overall 
reliance on new raw materials. Coupled 
with our industry-leading laundering 
processes, companies that partner 
with us for their uniform programs are 
taking a more direct, environmentally 
conscious route in reducing their use of 
natural  resources.
To help meet our customers’ appetites 
for uniforms and apparel made in a 
more sustainable manner, the Design 
Collective has focused efforts on 
designing and testing several new 
products and  programs.• Sustainable textiles:  We are 
expanding the use of recycled 
polyester and eco-friendly, 
sustainable textiles, which are 
currently available in more than 
100 of our uniform styles. These 
textiles include Cintas’ proprietary 
ComfortF LEX®, DuPont Sorona®, 
bamboo, organic cotton, recycled 
polyester/RPET, Tencel®, and other 
cellulosic fibers. Our Regeneration 
Collection is made from REPREVE®, 
created from recycled  bottles.• Recycling apparel:  In partnership 
with Martex Fiber, we collect 
customers’ end-of-life garments to 
be repurposed into new commercial 
products. This type of marled 
material is generally used in post-
consumer textiles like automotive 
seats and insulation, bedding, 
acoustic insulation, and sports 
equipment. Many of our customers 
participate in this initiative and help 
reduce the environmental impact of 
their apparel change-outs. 
• Traceable recycled polyester: 
Traceable waste from our clients 
is processed and transformed into 
REPREVE® recycled polyester fibers. 
This fiber is then used to produce 
apparel and accessories – including 
items for our Regeneration  Collection. 
• Upcycling/repurposing garments:  
Garments are recycled at the end 
of their life and can be made into 
other apparel, accessories, or 
consumer  products.
• Reclaimed garments: We partner 
with various charities to donate 
reclaimed or unused garments. In 
FY21, reclaimed garments were 
among the more than 432,000 
pounds – or 216 tons – of reclaimed 
goods that we donated to Matthew 
25: Ministries.• Cintas-branded closed-loop 
apparel: We can imagine a future 
that includes Cintas-branded 
product lines produced entirely in a 
closed-loop process. Stakeholders 
in our Rental, Design Collective, 
and Global Supply Chain groups 
are exploring if such an initiative 
is possible on an enterprise scale 
without sacrificing our uniforms’ 
performance and lifespan. Even a 
smaller-scale product line would 
have an instant impact on our 
environmental footprint by lessening 
our reliance on raw materials while 
lowering our  waste. 
30
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 SOCIAL
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS
32 Our People
33 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
35 Talent Recruitment
36 Talent Retention
37 Compensation
38  Performance and Advancement
39 Training and Development
41  Employee-Partner Engagement
43 Labor Relations
45 Human Rights
46 Safety and Health
49  Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations
51 Supplier Diversity
52 Local CommunitiesSOCIAL
31
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS SOCIAL
OUR  PEOPLE
OUR CORPORATE CULTURE 
AND  CHARACTER
Our exceptionally strong corporate 
culture underpins everything we do. 
Common respect for all our employee-
partners is fundamental, and we believe 
that everyone contributes to our 
collective success – whether they’re a 
new employee-partner loading trucks in 
one of our laundry-processing facilities 
or a 35-year veteran executive running 
one of our business  divisions. 
Our employee-partners embody our 
corporate character . We expect them to 
be professional, enthusiastic, thorough, 
honest, humble, ethical, law-abiding, 
and courteous. We expect them to do 
what’s right, not what’s expedient. And 
positive discontent has helped make 
our business better, reinforced by our 
competitive  urgency. 
A STRONG  FOUNDATION
At Cintas, we’re fortunate to have 
approximately 40,000 employee-
partners who reflect these qualities, 
giving our business an incredibly strong 
foundation. We’ve worked hard to foster 
an environment where every employee-
partner is positioned to use their 
strengths and talents to help us meet our 
business goals, while they feel supported 
and championed in their pursuit of their 
professional  goals. At Cintas, our employee-partners are 
the heart of our company. Our policies 
and procedures instruct and guide us 
in how we run our business and help 
maintain our consistent quality. But as 
a service provider, it’s our people and 
our corporate culture that ultimately 
define  us. 
Our employee-partners bring the 
essence of Cintas to life each day as they 
help our customers get Ready for the 
Workday®. They are what make Cintas 
truly  unique.
ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEE-PARTNERS
Our goal at Cintas is to foster a working 
environment where everyone can 
contribute to our collective success. 
When they do, we believe they’re more 
likely to feel engaged professionally. And 
engaged employees are far more likely 
to stay, so we retain their knowledge and 
skills to help make the company  better. 
In his book The Spirit Is The Difference , 
our Founder Dick Farmer was very 
deliberate to note: “It is important 
to recognize the potential in every 
human being. It is important to involve 
everyone, and to make everyone a 
confident, contributing member of the 
team.” This was true when Dick founded 
the modern-day Cintas and it’s still 
true today: his philosophy forms the 
foundation of our Human Capital and 
Human Resources  strategies. We believe our employee-partners 
are our best advocates and brand 
representatives, primarily because 
they are engaged and fulfilled by their 
careers. Because they give so much 
of themselves for us, we know it’s our 
responsibility to treat our employee-
partners well, offering programs that 
support their health and well-being, and providing fulfilling professional 
opportunities that create a path for 
continued growth and  development. 
This commitment to our people has 
created a positive, dynamic cycle that 
fuels our cohesive, high-functioning 
workforce and drives our ongoing 
success as a  company. 
32
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
We have five components to our overall 
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion strategy 
at Cintas: 
• Employee-Partner Engagement  – 
Recruitment, retention, development, 
and  promotion
• Governance  – Inclusion policies that 
provide equal opportunity for all 
partners and  applicants
• Corporate Citizenship  – Grassroots 
and corporate-sponsored 
philanthropy, volunteerism, and 
social  responsibility
• Supplier Diversity  – Economic 
inclusion, innovation, and  value 
• Multicultural Marketing  – Listening 
to customers and delivering innovative 
products and services that exceed 
their  expectations
We’ve made a committed effort to 
foster a workforce of employee-
partners representative of different 
generations, races, religions, abilities, 
sexual orientations, and other identifying 
categories, as well as employee-partners 
who bring a diversity of thought to our 
business. We want our workforce to 
reflect the communities in which we 
do business. DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND  INCLUSION
WHY DIVERSITY IS  IMPORTANT 
We believe bringing employee-partners 
together with different perspectives, life 
experiences, and backgrounds benefits 
everyone. We’ve found that when you 
bring people from different backgrounds 
together, everyone benefits from the 
sharing of perspectives and experiences, 
providing deeper insight, understanding, 
empathy, and compassion. This leads to 
improved ideas, solutions, and outcomes 
that better serve our customers, 
shareholders, and other stakeholders in 
the long  term. 
Our diverse workforce helps us better 
understand how our products and 
services are viewed, how they meet our 
customers’ needs, and what innovations 
may benefit our business. Having a broad 
range of experiences to lean on also 
helps us enter new markets and gain 
new  customers. Almost our entire workforce – 99.3% – are 
full-time employees and almost 36% are 
female. Our company demographics are 
also representative of the communities 
in which we operate, as almost 43% of 
our employee-partners self-identify as a 
minority demographic (or non-white). 
Our efforts on diversifying the racial 
and ethnic make-up of our workforce 
have been recognized with Cintas’ 
inclusion on Forbes ’ “Best Employers for 
Diversity” and DiversityPlus Magazine ’s 
“Top 30 Champions of  Diversity.” 
In addition to more common definitions 
of diversity, we also look to expand the 
perspective of our workforce with other 
types of diversity, including diversity of 
thought, and employee-partners with 
disabilities or those who are military-
affiliated. Our military outreach programs 
are regularly recognized for their 
support and effectiveness in helping transition service members to civilian 
life, including accommodations from G.I. 
Jobs (Top Military-Friendly Employers) 
and Military Spouse (Top Military Spouse 
Friendly  Employers). 
Our efforts to hire employee-partners 
with disabilities have also garnered 
recognition from the Disabled Equality 
Index as a “90 Score” company and the 
“Influencer Award” from Autism  Speaks. 
Our Partner Business Resource Groups 
(PBRGs)  help foster a sense of greater 
community and belonging at the 
workplace, with four distinct groups 
providing peer support for our women, 
Black/African American, Latinx/Hispanic, 
and military-affiliated employee-
partners. Read more about our PBRGs 
on pg.  40.
TOTAL WORKFORCE BREAKDOWNS
By Employment Type By Gender By Minority Status
Part-time 
(0.7%)Full-time 
(99.3%)Female 
(35.8%)Male  
(64.2%)Non-Minority 
(57.2%)Self-Identified 
Minority 
(42.8%)
33
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
TOTAL WORKFORCE – BY EEO DEMOGRAPHICS PERCENTAGE
White 52.6%
Latinx/Hispanic 19.4%
Black/African American 13.3%
Asian  3.7%
Two or More Races  2.2%
Native American/Alaskan  0.4%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander  0.3%
Not Specified  8.1%
WORKFORCE BREAKDOWNS BY GENDER TOTAL MALE FEMALE
Total Employee-Partners 40,099 25,723 14,376
Employment Type
Full-Time 39,814 25,565 14,249
   Percentage of Workforce 99.3% 63.8% 35.5%
Part-Time and Other 285 158 127
   Percentage of Workforce 0.7% 0.4% 0.3%
Employee-Partners by Age
Under 30 8,115 5,757 2,358
   Percentage of Workforce 20.3% 14.4% 5.9%
30-50 22,051 15,138 6,913
   Percentage of Workforce 55.0% 37.8% 17.2%
Over 50 9,933 4,828 5,105
   Percentage of Workforce 24.7% 12.0% 12.7%
EMPLOYEE-PARTNER DEMOGRAPHICS
34
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
TALENT  RECRUITMENT
ATTRACTING THE  BEST 
To generate a diverse and qualified 
applicant pool, we post our positions 
both internally and externally. We use 
various popular job boards including 
LinkedIn, Indeed, Snagajob, WayUp, and 
DirectEmployers Association, as well as 
position-specific industry sites. We also 
use social media platforms and recruiting 
services for specialized roles, or those 
where the local recruiting base may be 
limited. Further, we work with a diverse 
group of minority commerce groups 
and organizations around the country to 
recruit and source  applicants. 
Employee-partners can apply for any 
internal position posted on our career 
website. Additionally, they annually 
update in-depth personal profiles – 
which include career objectives, skills, 
and educational advancements – in our 
human resource information system 
(HRIS). This allows hiring managers to 
see the entire spectrum of talent at 
Cintas and source internal candidates 
who may not otherwise be aware of 
available  opportunities. 
We continue to review our talent-
acquisition strategies – as well as 
overlooked or underutilized avenues to 
source candidates – and we monitor the 
effectiveness of our value proposition to 
remain an employer of  choice. ON-CAMPUS RECRUITING: 
IDENTIFYING OUR FUTURE  TALENT
We use a broad on-campus recruiting 
network for some of our positions, 
including our Management Trainee (MT) 
and internship programs. We’ve fostered 
relationships with many colleges and 
universities around the United States 
and Canada – including Historically Black 
Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and 
the Hispanic Association of Colleges 
and Universities – that help us find 
qualified  candidates. 
Our internship program is open to 
undergraduate students and exposes 
them to all facets of our business. We 
offer competitive wages, extensive 
training, and development in one 
area of Cintas, and the potential to 
transition directly into our MT program 
upon  graduation. 
We’ve also developed competitive 
apprenticeship and shadow programs 
with a small group of universities. 
These allow potential applicants the 
opportunity to learn more about our 
business from local management 
employee-partners before applying 
for positions. TALENT RECRUITMENT DATA
FY21 NEW EMPLOYEE-PARTNER HIRES TOTAL PERCENTAGE
Male 5,923 67.1%
Female 2,904 32.9%
Total New Hires 8,827 100%
AGE BRACKET TOTAL UNDER 30 30-50 OVER 50
Male 67.1% 30.9% 31.2% 5.0%
Female 32.9% 12.2% 15.4% 5.3%
Total 100% 43.1% 46.6% 10.3%
35
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
TALENT  RETENTION
With approximately 40,000 employee-
partners company-wide, we have a 
dynamic and talented workforce with 
skills and experience spanning hundreds 
of disciplines. Each person brings a 
unique perspective and background to 
the job, and our goal is to keep talented 
employee-partners engaged and 
support their growth and  development.
Our competitive salaries and 
comprehensive benefits are attractive to 
prospective employees, but we stand out 
for our focus on professional  development. 
We’ve evaluated the value proposition 
of working at Cintas at every stage of an 
employee-partner’s career and in every 
operational area, from our production 
facilities to service and sales representatives 
(SSRs), and management and corporate 
positions. We’ve found that our employee-
partners value the opportunity to gain new 
skills, do new jobs more frequently, and 
grow their careers  faster. 
OUR PROFESSIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT  PHILOSOPHY 
Many times, the best candidate for a role 
is already somewhere in the company – 
and we provide opportunities for their 
continued professional growth and 
fulfillment without the need to look for 
employment  elsewhere. 
Our approach distinguishes us from 
other companies: rather than a corporate 
ladder, we offer a flexible path to a long-
term meaningful career – more like a 
“career jungle  gym.” At Cintas, we’re able to offer different 
careers and job opportunities to meet 
someone’s professional needs, with 
both lateral and upward opportunities 
that continue to provide support 
and ongoing company investment in 
their  development.RATES VS. WORKFORCE TOTAL PERCENTAGE
Male 4,515 11.3%
Female 2,318 5.8%
Total Voluntary Turnover 6,883 17.1%
BY AGE BRACKET TOTAL UNDER 30 30-50 OVER 50
Male 66.1% 23.9% 34.5% 7.7%
Female 33.9% 9.3% 16.7% 7.9 %
Percentage of Voluntary Turnover 100% 33.2% 51.2% 15.6%
TALENT RETENTION DATA
FY21 Voluntary Turnover
RATES VS WORKFORCE TOTAL PERCENTAGE
Male 1,122 2.8%
Female 638 1.6%
Total Involuntary Turnover 1,760 4.4%
BY AGE BRACKET TOTAL UNDER 30 30-50 OVER 50
Male 63.8% 18.4% 32.5% 12.9%
Female 36.2% 6.5% 16.1% 13.6%
Percentage of Involuntary Turnover 100% 24.9% 48.6% 26.5%
FY21 Involuntary Turnover
Between our various business divisions 
and corporate departments, we can 
provide employee-partners new 
opportunities and work experiences. 
For example, someone may start as 
a production partner or in one of our 
distribution centers, while their next step may be out in the field interacting with 
customers. From there, they could go 
into local  management. 
We believe this is a defining characteristic 
at Cintas and has been a key factor in 
helping us retain the best  talent.
36
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
COMPENSATION
Cintas offers competitive compensation 
packages to its employee-partners, 
including salaries and wages, a 
comprehensive benefits package, 
and a generous retirement program. 
Employee-partners are paid  weekly. 
More information about our 
compensation strategy is available in 
the 2021 Proxy Statement , including our 
Board of Directors’ compensation and 
remuneration strategy and policies, plus 
specific Board and executive management 
compensation programs and pay  ratios.
EMPLOYEE  BENEFITS
Full- and part-time employee-partners 
can enroll in our comprehensive 
benefits program, whether in 
individual programs or in the whole 
package. Employee-partners become 
eligible for most contributory benefit 
options after 30 days of employment, 
while our retirement package has 
different  eligibilities. 
Our benefits program includes medical 
insurance, retirement savings and 
contributions, paid time off, flexible 
spending and health savings accounts, 
disability coverage, and basic life 
insurance. We also have programs 
designed to support healthy living and 
assist with commuting and  parenthood.Cintas provides access to multiple 
medical insurance plans to all employee-
partners, along with dental and vision 
insurance coverage. Employee-partners 
can choose to participate in plans 
with varying levels and combinations 
of co-pays, deductibles, and out-of-
pocket expenses, including a free health 
insurance option. Employee-partners 
can reduce their health insurance rates 
by participating in confidential annual 
personal health evaluations and sharing 
the results with their  doctors.
For many years, we’ve offered our Live 
Well program and encouraged our 
employee-partners to make progress 
on their health and wellness journeys. 
The company provides free annual 
biometric screening, free annual flu 
shots, COVID-19 vaccines, and access 
to tobacco-cessation and weight-loss 
programs. Further, our Employee 
Assistance Program (EAP) provides free 
access to counseling for mental health, 
legal, and financial  issues. 
Cintas provides alternative benefit 
programs to a select number of 
employee-partners whose benefits 
packages are negotiated separately 
through their respective collective 
bargaining  agreements.THE PARTNERS PLAN AND 
RETIREMENT  SUPPORT
The vast majority of our employee-
partners are eligible for our three-part 
retirement program, known as the 
Partners Plan, which includes a traditional 
401(k) investment account, employee 
stock ownership program (ESOP), and 
profit  sharing. 
After three months of service, all 
employee-partners are automatically 
enrolled in our 401(k) program. 
Participants automatically contribute 
3% of their salary to their retirement 
fund unless they opt out or designate 
a different amount before becoming 
eligible; this percentage can be 
adjusted at any time after enrollment. 
Based on eligibility, company matching 
contributions are allocated to the first 
10% of employee-partners’ contributions 
to their 401(k) accounts. The 401(k) 
account fully vests after five years of 
employment with  Cintas. Cintas also makes annual discretionary 
contributions to employee-partners’ 
individual retirement accounts in the 
form of profit sharing and its ESOP. 
Contributions are approved by the 
Board of Directors based on the 
company’s financial performance and 
are distributed based on a point system 
anchored in tenure and compensation. 
Both forms of contribution are made 
automatically and fully vest after three 
years at the company. Since FY15, Cintas 
has increased its annual discretionary 
contributions from $28.2 million to 
$55.8 million in  FY21. 
A select number of our employee-
partners covered by collective bargaining 
agreements have other retirement 
programs, including a limited number 
with defined benefit plans. More 
information about these specific plans is 
available in our FY21 Form 10-K . 
37
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
PERFORMANCE AND  ADVANCEMENT
Our business relies on the passion, 
expertise, and dedication of our 
people, and our commitment to their 
career development is vital to our 
company’s  success.
Each year, we undertake a holistic 
approach to our employee-partners’ 
performance and advancement. This not 
only supports our immediate company 
and personnel goals, but also helps 
position our employee-partners to 
maximize their performance at Cintas, 
both today and throughout their  careers.ANNUAL PERFORMANCE  REVIEWS
Each year, every employee-partner takes 
part in our annual performance review 
process. For all salaried partners, the 
review process includes both a self-
assessment and a manager assessment of 
their performance against their business 
goals and developmental  targets. 
Additionally, salaried employee-
partners and their managers agree on 
new objectives for the coming year. 
These typically include two or three 
measurable business goals along with individual development plans. Managers 
have access to a wide selection of 
developmental tools and resources to 
help employee-partners improve in many 
different areas of leadership and other 
skills, including emotional intelligence, 
public speaking, delegation, and 
conflict  resolution. 
The performance review process 
also informs potential compensation 
adjustments through merit increases, 
market adjustments, promotions, and 
position or responsibility  changes.
SUCCESSION  PLANNING 
Succession planning is an integral part 
of our business. It happens at every level 
of our company, not just at the executive 
level. It’s engrained in our annual 
performance review process, embedded 
in our culture, and is a key part of 
our company’s growth and business 
continuity  strategy. 
Succession planning at Cintas is 
designed to provide a human capital 
road map for the company for the next 
three to five years. The process provides 
our company with a detailed analysis of 
our people and their skills, capabilities, 
professional interests, and goals. The 
process is detailed and deliberate, and 
requires time, attention, and careful 
consideration from our managers and 
executives  alike. 
In addition to identifying leadership 
potential within our organization, it also 
help us detect potential knowledge or skill gaps that have developed within 
the last year. For employee-partners, 
annual reviews and succession planning 
help identify skill and knowledge 
opportunities. For the company, the 
results of this comprehensive process 
factor into both our short- and long-term 
training and development planning and 
our recruiting strategy – both for internal 
candidate development and for external 
candidate  sourcing. 
Succession planning also helps us 
identify and develop the company’s 
future leaders. Once an employee-
partner is identified as having high 
potential or aptitude, they are offered 
additional resources and opportunities 
specifically developed to help them gain 
the knowledge, skills, and experience 
necessary to continue their accelerated 
career path at  Cintas. 
Employee-partners also maintain 
updated personal information about 
their background, education, awards 
and honors, interests, skills, and other 
professional preferences, including their 
willingness to relocate for a new role. 
This gives managers and supervisors 
deeper insight into employee-partners 
already within the company as positions 
open or promotions or role changes 
are considered. 
More information about our succession 
planning and talent development for our 
CEO and other officers is available in our 
Corporate Governance  Guidelines . PARTNER DEVELOPMENT CYCLE
Our process for investing in professional development is designed to help 
employee-partners enhance performance, achieve goals, and progress in their 
career. It’s an ongoing process rather than a once-a-year event, with all steps 
continuously linked  together.
Discuss Business and
Development GoalsReview ProcessPerformance
Check DiscussionSix-Month ProgressSuccession Planning
38
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
TRAINING AND  DEVELOPMENT
Ongoing training and development are 
major components of a Cintas employee-
partner’s career path. Every position has 
a required curriculum of specific trainings 
and/or certifications, which Cintas 
provides and  facilitates.
FORMAL TRAINING 
AND  CERTIFICATIONS
Frontline partners receive continual 
training in a variety of areas specific 
to their positions, including safety 
and process certifications and 
professional  certifications. 
Cintas’ Learning and Development (L&D) 
Department offers a broad range of 
trainings, seminars, and learning modules 
to help employee-partners learn or 
further develop skills and enhance their 
knowledge. These are generally taught by 
trained Cintas staff, and include immersive, 
multiple-day, in-person sessions, full-day 
or half-day seminars, live virtual classes, 
or online training-on-demand (TOD) 
modules. These sessions bring employee-
partners together from across the United 
States and Canada. Most of the multiple-
day classes have historically been taught in 
person, but COVID-19 forced much of the 
L&D catalog to move online, either as live 
virtual classes or as  TODs. 
Management-track employee-partners 
are required to take additional class-
based training sessions so they are 
better positioned to lead and manage at Cintas. Common required courses 
include Corporate Culture and Engaging 
Leadership; Diversity & Inclusion training; 
Six Sigma training and certification; and 
Meticulous  Hiring. 
The L&D team facilitates a range of 
department- and division-specific 
learning opportunities as new products, 
initiatives, and campaigns are rolled 
out. Its centralized learning portal 
gives employee-partners access to 
the information in a consolidated and 
convenient manner, and also allows them 
to learn more about our  business. 
New managers, or employee-partners 
who have demonstrated leadership or 
management potential, can also enroll 
in training courses that help them 
effectively manage their locations. In 
addition, these employee-partners 
can also participate in division-specific 
bootcamps to gain the knowledge they 
need to lead other employee-partners 
to success. 
OTHER  DEVELOPMENT  
OPPORTUNITIES
Outside of formal training and 
certifications, we also offer and facilitate 
other opportunities for employee-
partners to gain further insight, 
experience, and support on the job. 
These include our MT program, our 
mentor program, our PBRGs, and our 
Executive Leadership  Program.Management Trainee Program
Many of our top leaders began their 
career in our MT program. In fact, our 
Executive Chairman, Scott Farmer, was 
in the very first class of MTs in 1982, and 
President and CEO, Todd Schneider, is 
also a graduate of the  program. 
MTs at Cintas are typically hired upon 
graduation from college. Our robust 
campus recruiting program identifies 
potential MT candidates each year, and 
the program helps create a sustainable 
leadership pipeline for the  company. 
MTs gain the skills, tools, and knowledge 
they need to succeed at Cintas 
through on-the-job training, with an 
intensive hands-on rotation through 
many areas of our company, including 
Sales, Service, Production, Operations, 
and  Administration. 
At the end of the two-year program, 
Cintas works with trainees to place them 
in full-time positions, which usually 
include field sales positions and then 
management roles. This progression of 
responsibilities helps accelerate their 
career  path. 
Mentoring
Cintas is an advocate of professional 
mentoring; it’s a universal element of our 
development  strategy. 
Our mentorship philosophy maintains 
that mentor–mentee relationships 
should be professional and situationally based, and that the mentee’s needs are 
the focus. We feel strongly that when a 
formal mentoring process is followed, the 
mentee receives the greatest benefits 
from the  relationship. 
Much consideration goes into creating 
mentorship relationships. We work to 
best position mentors to guide their 
mentees on their current career path and 
help them obtain the necessary skills, 
knowledge, and insight to take the next 
steps in their  careers. 
Mentoring is a key component of our 
succession planning and has provided 
tremendous returns in helping develop 
our current and future leaders. We 
believe each unique mentor–mentee 
relationship should have a specific and 
defined purpose, as well as objectives, 
goals, and  outcomes.
We also offer formal training to our new 
mentors so they enter the program with a 
strong understanding of the process, its 
application, and when to recognize that a 
mentor–mentee relationship has come to 
its natural  end. 
Employee-partners often begin their 
careers at Cintas with a mentor, and then 
change mentors as they develop in their 
roles, change positions, or advance in 
leadership. The cycle continues when 
they become mentors themselves and 
guide newer employee-partners starting 
their Cintas  careers.
39
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
Partner Business Resource Groups
Our employee-partner affinity groups 
are an important element in our overall 
human resources and human capital 
strategy. We have four of these  PBRGs. 
These distinct groups align with our 
business objectives and help secure 
our continued competitiveness, while 
allowing the breadth of experience, skill 
sets, perspectives, and talents of our 
diverse employee-partners to truly  shine.
PBRGs provide members with outlets to 
lend their voices and perspectives, and a 
space where they can share experiences 
and support one another. They also 
provide a platform for management 
to hear from our employee-partners 
directly about issues that matter most to them. It’s a two-way dialogue that 
we believe benefits everyone, including 
our company. 
Our PBRGs play a pivotal role in 
developing employee-partners at various 
stages of their careers and connect 
partners from similar backgrounds in 
a supportive environment. While our 
mentor program is built on skill- and 
job-based criteria, our PBRGs are based 
on common backgrounds and shared 
experiences. This is a foundational 
function of our PBRGs, and we believe 
they have been very successful in giving 
a louder voice, leadership opportunities, 
and access to management to many of 
our people. 
Executive Leadership Program
We launched our Executive Leadership 
Program (ELP) in 2015 to help identify 
and increase the pool of diverse 
employee-partners who were best 
qualified to fill our mid-management 
positions. This includes corporate 
director-level department heads and 
general manager roles at our locations 
across the  organization. 
The goal of the 10-month program is to 
further enhance participants’ leadership 
skills, Cintas business knowledge, and 
visibility to our company’s top leaders 
at a key stage of their management 
career. Participants are nominated by 
company leaders. Initially, one ELP 
class was conducted annually, exposing 
about 25 employee-partners a year to 
the advanced curriculum. In 2021, we 
began running two concurrent sessions and increased participation to 35-40 
employee-partners per year. Overall, 
135 employee-partners have graduated 
from the  program. 
The ELP includes regular sessions with 
company leaders to discuss career paths 
and trajectories, leadership philosophies, 
and general business strategies. The 
L&D Organizational Development 
Team, in coordination with company 
executives, has created three unique 
leadership seminars for the ELP that 
focus on communication, accountability, 
and high-performance team building. 
Each participant works directly with an 
executive mentor during the program 
for additional personal one-on-one 
advice. Program participants also 
undertake a 360° assessment and receive 
personalized feedback as part of their 
ongoing development  plan. THE CINTAS PBRG s
Women Adding Value Everywhere
Target membership:  Female  
employee-partners
Relevant, Inspiring Support for 
Engagement & Empowerment
Target membership: Black/African 
American employee-partnersTogether Offering Diverse  
Opportunities & Solutions
Target membership: Latinx/Hispanic 
employee-partners
Veterans-Military Accelerating 
Leadership Opportunities and 
Resources
Target membership: Military-affiliated 
employee-partners
40
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
EMPLOYEE-PARTNER  ENGAGEMENT
We believe that our people reach their 
full potential in an inclusive environment, 
and that they do their best work when 
they are highly engaged with the 
company and their fellow employee-
partners. As a service provider, we’ve 
seen the benefit of an engaged and 
fulfilled workforce, and what it has meant 
for our  customers.
Further, academic and industry research 
has proven the direct connection between 
employee loyalty and engagement on 
crucial company performance indicators 
such as customer loyalty, return on 
investment, and financial  performance.
EMPLOYEE-PARTNER  SURVEYS
We monitor the general engagement 
of our workforce to stay abreast of their 
current attitudes and opinions, and then 
use the results to implement changes 
that will drive deeper employee-
partner  engagement. 
To accomplish this, we conducted 
company-wide employee-partner 
engagement surveys in partnership 
with Willis Towers Watson in 2015 and 
2019. Our survey includes corporate- 
and location-based questions to help 
gauge our employee-partners’ feelings 
about both the company as a whole and their specific worksites. The anonymous 
50-question survey takes approximately 
20-30 minutes to complete, and also 
provides opportunities to submit open-
ended comments and  feedback. 
Our employee-partner engagement 
surveys have four key learning  goals:
• Identify our employee-partners’ 
current levels of  engagement
• Understand our employee-partners’ 
perceptions of important elements of 
our culture
• Establish a new baseline for 
measurement in our areas of strength 
and  development
• Determine how we might impact 
future success in transformational  ways
In our latest engagement survey, 87% 
of our workforce opted to participate 
and provide responses. Our employee-
partners’ enthusiasm to participate 
indexed Cintas above the “high 
performance norm” and marked a 6% rise 
in participation from the previous  survey. 
Our overall engagement score in 2019 
was 90%. Category-specific ratings 
underpinned our overall commitment 
to our people, including Empowerment, 
Sustainable Engagement, Safety, and 
Diversity & Inclusion.   Sample response from 2019 Employee Engagement Survey:
“  Everyone I work with is amazing and make the Cintas 
culture awesome. My leaders and other partners all are ready 
to help whenever I have questions. I have yet to come across a 
partner, supervisor or manager that was not willing to help 
me with any situation I come across.”EMPLOYEE-PARTNER ENGAGEMENT SURVEY RESULTS
METRIC 2015 2019
Engagement Score 90% 90%
Response Rate 82% 87%
CATEGORY 2015 2019 CHANGE
Leadership 0 5 +5
Safety n/a 4 +4
Performance Management -1 3 +4
Retention n/a 4 +4
Sustainable Engagement 0 3 +3
Empowerment -1 2 +3
Development & Training -2 0 +2
Manager Effectiveness 1 2 +1CINTAS INDEX VS. HIGH-PERFORMANCE NORMS
41
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
WHAT WE’VE  LEARNED 
Several individual themes emerged from 
the responses.
• Safety  – We foster a safe workplace. 
Our leaders address unsafe 
conditions. Our employee-partners 
are comfortable raising  concerns. 
• Leadership  – There is upward 
communication. They are interested 
in our employee-partners’ well-being. 
They make decisions consistent with 
our corporate culture. They present a 
clear  vision. 
• Manager Effectiveness  – Managers 
provide recognition and feedback. They 
keep our employee-partners informed. 
They are available to their  staff. 
• Empowerment  – We establish clear 
lines of sight and job  roles. 
• Diversity & Inclusion  – We pursue 
a diverse workplace with support 
for diversity. 
• Benefits  – Our benefits package fits 
our employee-partners’  needs. After each survey was completed, Willis 
Towers Watson analyzed the data and 
our management reviewed the results. 
Their evaluation was done with lenses 
on both the corporate and location 
levels, with action plans developed to 
address opportunities identified by the 
survey  results. 
Cintas’ index ranking against High 
Performance Norms improved in eight 
categories from the 2015 survey to the 
2019  survey.
The company will conduct its next 
engagement survey in 2022, and going 
forward, we expect to administer 
engagement surveys every two  years.
  Sample response from 2019 Employee Engagement Survey:
“  Cintas is a wonderful company and I am proud to be a 
Cintas partner! As long as we continue to keep the focus 
on our partners, customers, and safety, working at Cintas  
can only get better.”
42
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
LABOR  RELATIONS
Cintas recognizes and respects the 
principles of freedom of association 
and our employee-partners’ right to 
collective bargaining in accordance with 
applicable national laws. We strive to 
adhere to U.S. National Labor Relations 
Board protocols to support their rights to 
exercise their freedom of association and 
collective  bargaining. 
Cintas recognizes employee-partners’ 
rights to form or join unions, including 
the right to a government-supervised 
election. We encourage them to make 
informed decisions on the  matter. 
We believe our employee-partners’ 
decisions about association should be 
made consciously, deliberately, and in 
private. Their decisions should be free 
from the possibility of undue outside 
influence or  coercion. 
Between 2003 and 2011, we withstood a 
national unionization campaign during 
which a coordinated multiple-union 
effort put sustained pressure on Cintas 
to accept union representation on 
behalf of every employee-partner at all 
of our operating locations throughout 
the United States. We did not then – 
nor do we now – believe a unilateral 
decision for representation to be in 
the best interest of our employee-
partners, and we defended their rights 
to a federally supervised election and 
collective  bargaining. Our objection to this campaign was 
not about blocking our employee-
partners’ efforts to unionize. It was 
that this particular campaign wanted 
Cintas management to take away our 
employee-partners’ right to vote on the 
issue and instead wanted management 
to make that decision for our people, 
on their behalf. At the time, we defined 
our position regarding our employee-
partners’ right to vote with the phrase 
“The right to say yes and the freedom to 
say no.” We continue to maintain that any 
decision to unionize can only be made by 
our employee-partners and that Cintas 
management should not take that  away. 
In areas where our employee-partners 
have voted for union representation, 
we satisfy our bargaining obligations as 
defined by the  law.
CURRENT  ASSOCIATIONS
As of September 1, 2021, a total of 
935 of our employee-partners were 
covered by collective bargaining 
agreements, representing approximately 
2.4% of our workforce. In the United 
States, 337 employee-partners were 
represented under 12 agreements and 
in Canada, 598 were represented under 
seven  agreements. LOCATIONS IDENTIFIED AS  RISKS
Cintas has not identified any locations 
under our operation where our 
employee-partners’ right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining 
may be at  risk. 
We are unable to report on any Global 
Supply Chain Supplier operations that 
could be at risk for such issues, but 
our Vendor Code of Conduct requires 
suppliers to respect workers’ rights to 
collective bargaining and their freedom 
of association.MINIMUM  NOTICE
In cases where operational changes are 
set to occur, we make every effort to 
provide as much notice as possible to our 
affected operations, given the scope of 
the imminent  changes. 
In cases where a Worker Adjustment and 
Retraining Notification  (WARN) is required, 
we provide at least the minimum required 
notice to our operation(s)  affected. 
All of our U.S.-based collective bargaining 
agreements include standard 60-day 
notification periods as required by  law.
43
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
THE RIGHT TO SAY YES,  AND  
THE FREEDOM TO SAY  NO
In almost all instances, when our 
employee-partners have the opportunity 
to cast their vote for association in 
a private, government-supervised 
election, they have voted against union 
representation. Our employee-partners 
who are currently unionized joined 
while working for a company that we 
later  acquired. 
We believe our strong corporate culture 
is fundamental to their decision. All of 
our employee-partners are important 
and vital to our success. We value their 
opinions and feedback, no matter their 
role in the  company. 
We believe the best solutions come from 
our front lines – from those employee-
partners keeping our processing plants 
moving and building relationships with 
our customers – because they know the 
job the  best. 
Our management philosophy is based 
on managers and supervisors interacting 
with their employee-partners every day, 
walking around and talking with them, 
and maintaining an “open door” to 
their offices. We believe these ongoing 
exchanges facilitate an environment of 
open communication and help create 
strong relationships built on trust 
and  respect. 
Because we value our employee-partners 
so much, we share our success with them. 
We recognize their ongoing commitment 
to Cintas, celebrate their efforts to keep us ahead of others in our industry, 
and provide them with our company’s 
competitive compensation ( see pg. 37 
for more  information ).
In addition, every employee-partner 
who has worked at least 1,000 hours at 
Cintas is eligible to become a company 
shareholder, with shares provided 
through our ESOP. This goes back to our 
corporate culture and calling each other 
“partners”: we all work together and play 
vital roles in our company’s success, so 
we collectively enjoy ownership in the 
company that we have helped  build. We promote world-class safety practices 
throughout our organization, and 
we’ve been repeatedly recognized 
and honored for our processes 
and commitment to a safe work 
environment – most notably with 
the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration (OSHA)’s highest 
recognition for workplace safety: the 
Voluntary Protection Program  (VPP). 
Our employee-partners have 
opportunities to expand their career 
paths. We facilitate training and 
certification as roles require, we prioritize the growth and development of our 
employee-partners, and our strong 
preference is to promote from  within. 
We firmly believe that all of these 
reasons – and more – have provided a 
strong, open environment where all of 
our employee-partners feel valued and 
supported. And we believe this is why, 
when they have been presented with 
alternative options, they have chosen not 
to vote for  association.
44
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
HUMAN  RIGHTS
Cintas is committed to upholding and 
promoting human rights and workplace 
rights and safety, both in our own 
facilities and in those we do business 
with around the  world. 
We respect the worth of all human beings. 
We aim to create opportunities for 
individuals to challenge themselves while 
working in a supportive environment that 
affords each person an equal opportunity 
for development and  advancement. 
We pride ourselves on our corporate 
culture, and our position on human rights 
is a natural extension of  it. 
OUR STANDARDS 
AND  REQUIREMENTS
In addition to our own company policies, 
we support the United Nations and the 
various international, national, and state 
governments that have established 
requirements and laws to promote fair 
treatment of all humans. These laws set 
labor and safety standards and support 
efforts to make sure that protected 
classes are treated  equally. 
This responsibility doesn’t just fall on 
Cintas and its employee-partners; it is also 
the responsibility of our external suppliers, 
contractors, and business partners. While 
cultural and societal differences exist 
throughout the world, our Vendor Code of 
Conduct  requires our Global Supply Chain 
Suppliers to meet our standards regarding 
human rights and fair labor  practices.Our requirements incorporate many key 
International Labour Organization (ILO) 
conventions,  including:
• Forced Labour Convention (No.  29)
• Freedom of Association and 
Protection of the Right to Organise 
Convention (No.  87)
• Right to Organise and Collective 
Bargaining Convention (No.  98)
• Equal Remuneration Convention 
(No.  100)
• Abolition of Forced Labour 
Convention (No.  105)
• Discrimination (Employment and 
Occupation) Convention (No.  111)
• Minimum Wage Fixing Convention 
(No.  131)
• Workers’ Representatives Convention 
(No.  135)
• Minimum Age Convention (No.  138)
• Collective Bargaining Convention 
(No.  154)
• Worst Forms of Child Labour 
Convention (No.  182)
We also support international human 
rights principles, including the United 
Nations Declaration of Human Rights, 
the United Nations Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights (UNGP), the 
European Convention on Human Rights, 
and other notable human rights  accords. 
Hours and Wages
We require that workers must be paid at 
least the legal minimum wage. While we 
understand that overtime is occasionally 
necessary to meet production demands, workers must be allowed a reasonable 
amount of time off from their duties to 
afford humane and productive working 
conditions. We expect our Global Supply 
Chain Suppliers to comply with all 
applicable laws and regulations in their 
country regarding working hours, wages, 
and overtime  pay.
Child Labor and Forced Labor
Cintas defines child labor as any work 
performed by individuals under the age 
of 16, or those under the compulsory 
school age – if that is higher than 16 – as 
defined by the location where work is 
being performed. The use of child labor 
by Cintas’ Global Supply Chain Suppliers 
is strictly prohibited, and they must only 
employ workers who meet the minimum 
age requirements in their  area.
Our Vendor Code of Conduct strictly 
prohibits the use of prison labor, forced 
labor, enslaved labor, or trafficked labor. 
It also prohibits knowingly utilizing 
or purchasing materials or products 
manufactured from companies that 
use uncompensated prison workers, 
indentured servitude, or enslaved or 
trafficked labor. Further, it prohibits our 
Global Supply Chain Suppliers from 
requiring any worker to remain under 
their employment for any period of time 
against their  will. 
Our policies also prohibit discrimination 
or harassment of any employee-partner 
on the basis of any personal status or 
human rights protected by law or statute. 
This policy extends to our  vendors. We participate in the American Apparel 
& Footwear Association and Fair Labor 
Association Commitment to Responsible 
Recruitment , which requires that no 
workers should pay for their jobs; workers 
retain their own travel documents and 
freedom of movement; and that all 
workers are informed of the basic terms 
of their employment before traveling to 
start employment. Our Global Supply 
Chain Suppliers are also expected to 
commit to  this. 
In FY21, we identified at-risk Global 
Supply Chain Suppliers that have been 
known to conduct business in China and 
the Eastern Hemisphere, and required 
them to attest that they do not work 
with or source from (past or present) 
vendors or suppliers in China’s Xinjiang 
Uyghur Autonomous Region. This 
area is known for utilizing Uyghurs and 
other Muslim minorities for forced and 
imprisoned  labor.
Collective Bargaining 
As is our policy at Cintas, we expect 
our Global Supply Chain Suppliers to 
respect their workers’ rights to organize 
and collective bargaining ( see Labor 
Relations on pg. 43 ). Workers must have 
the right to make an informed decision 
on the matter, have the right to free, fair, 
and government-supervised elections, 
and not be subject to representation that 
has been adopted  unilaterally. 
45
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
SAFETY AND  HEALTH
We’re immensely proud of our reputation 
for our world-class management of – 
and innovation in – employee health 
and safety. It’s a commitment that’s 
embedded deep within our culture and 
is also enumerated in our ambitious 
safety  vision. 
Our safety vision includes three 
components: for every Cintas location 
to be injury-free; for every employee-
partner to be engaged in continuously 
improving safety; and for Cintas to be 
widely recognized as one of the world’s 
leaders in safety and health  performance. 
We’ve been incredibly successful in 
keeping our employee-partners safe 
and healthy, in large part due to our 
organizational input and buy-in from 
every employee-partner in creating 
a safer workplace. Embracing health 
and safety has resulted in our industry-
leading low incident rates, as well 
as recognition for our initiatives and 
track  record. 
Safety has always been important to 
us – it’s part of our desire to run our 
company ethically and to support the 
work our employee-partners do on 
our behalf. However, a tragic incident 
in 2007 that resulted in an on-the-job 
death was an inflection point in our 
safety journey. Since then, we have 
prioritized perpetuating a culture of 
safety that constantly innovates better 
and safer ways of working and recognizes 
improvements in our safety  performance. As a result, we have lowered our incident 
rates dramatically, working hand in hand 
with our employee-partners to create a 
safer workplace. Involving our frontline 
workers in our safety journey has proven 
to be vital to our  success.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND 
SAFETY MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM
Our occupational health and safety 
management system is a multiple-
tiered program to identify hazards 
and safety concerns; implement safer 
processes and improvements; and 
monitor our organization for safety-
enhancement opportunities. The system 
applies to Cintas employee-partners, 
contractors, vendors, and visitors at our 
facilities, as well as when traveling to 
and from, and performing work at, our 
customer  locations. 
To continue to promote world-class 
health and safety standards, we have 
layered OSHA’s VPP  into our health 
and safety management system. This 
heightened level of planning and 
safeguarding encourages even greater 
standards of protective workplace safety 
and health, and helps operationalize their 
everyday  execution. 
The VPP recognizes businesses that 
implement effective health and safety 
management systems, and that maintain 
injury and illness rates below the Bureau 
of Labor Statistics’ national averages in 
their respective  industries. Our commitment to OSHA’s VPP 
Program has set a new standard for 
U.S. companies. A total of 117 Cintas 
sites were recognized by OSHA as 
VPP Star certified as of August 31, 
2021, a total that outpaces any other 
American company by a three-to-
one  margin. 
We believe in the program and 
support OSHA’s mission to recognize 
companies that prioritize the safety 
and health of their  employees. 
We’re honored to dedicate such time 
and resources to pursue VPP Star 
certifications across our organization, 
and also maintain our certifications 
once we achieve  them.
SPOTLIGHT:  VPP  ACHIEVEMENT
TOP 10 VPP STAR 
SITE  CERTIFICATIONS
2
3
3
322
42222
55 43
3223
54
2
3
25
2442
22
The numbers represent the number of Cintas’ 
VPP-certified locations in each locale.RANK COMPANYVPP  
SITES
1 Cintas 117
2 GE 39
3 Raytheon 38
4 Marathon 32
Milliken 32
Covanta 32
7 NuStar 31
Monsanto 31
9 Phillips 30
10 Sherwin Williams 29
Total Safety 29
46
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
Field locations have a designated 
Safety and Improvement Committee 
(SIC), which includes trained employee-
partners from across the location’s 
departments, as well as the local 
management  team.
TRAINING AND  DEVELOPMENT
Employee-partners are trained in more 
than 50 safety and health topics each year, 
with a minimum requirement of 10 hours 
of training – offered live in-person or 
online, or available on-demand – with 
specific trainings assigned by job and 
work scope. They are then evaluated by 
written, verbal, or skill-based assessments, 
and their progress is monitored and 
reviewed. Training and evaluation are 
conducted by locally based corporate or 
third-party instructors, depending on the 
topic. Some select training sessions – such 
as electrical and driver safety – are taught 
by external  experts. 
Most of our training curriculum has been 
designed in cooperation with industry 
experts and focuses on situations 
specific to Cintas. These include the 
Cintas Maintenance Safety Certification, 
which was recognized by the 
International Maintenance Conference in 
2017. All maintenance and engineering 
employee-partners must successfully 
complete the written and performance 
test to earn  certification. 
Safe driving is imperative at Cintas. We 
have collaborated with driver safety 
service providers to help us adapt 
their approaches to our drivers’ unique needs. Through our partnerships, we 
offer enhanced driver training, on-the-
road evaluations, and driver drills to 
better coach and assess driving skills. 
To reinforce our safe driving policies, 
our executive leaders deliver annual 
reminders about safe driving practices 
as we strive to be recognized as a top 
performer by the Network of Employers 
for Traffic Safety  (NETS). 
Our frontline employee-partners are 
not the only ones who undergo rigorous 
safety and health training. Our Safety 
and Health (S&H) Team managers are 
required to attend OSHA’s 10 -hour 
Safety Improvement course and 
Management Safety Leadership Skills 
course – a comprehensive overview of 
proven safety principles that is featured 
in the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health safety and health  curriculum.
ONGOING EVALUATION 
AND  MEASUREMENT
Safety and health are full-year 
commitments at Cintas, and every level 
of the organization participates in our 
ongoing  efforts. 
Locations self-assess against safety and 
health protocols, and undergo routine 
safety evaluations by our corporate S&H 
Team. Our locations also conduct regular 
driver assessments where a Service 
Supervisor who is a certified Smith 
System® Evaluator rides a route with a 
driver. The results of these assessments 
must be verified by the location’s 
General Manager each  month. To ensure we continually focus on 
improving our safety journey, each of our 
business divisions holds regular safety 
and health meetings with our S&H  Team. 
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH  INITIATIVES 
In addition to job-specific training, 
our employee-partners also receive 
ongoing education in a variety of health 
and wellness topics, including nutrition, 
flexibility, fitness, performing in extreme 
temperatures, and hydration. Cintas 
locations partner with local third-party 
medical and wellness providers to enhance 
our employee-partners’ knowledge and 
help locations minimize and eliminate risks. 
They also support work accommodation 
requests and help monitor return-to-work 
programs and  requirements. 
Our award-winning ergonomics 
team, recognized by the International 
Ergonomics Association, helps lead the 
way in reducing occupational injuries like 
strains and sprains by identifying and 
working to reduce hazards. Ergonomics 
evaluations and training are available to 
all employee-partners. Our corporate 
ergonomic trainers have helped us 
reduce our ergonomics-related  injuries. 
Locations are challenged to reduce 
risks and set goals for motions saved 
and projects implemented using best-
practice ergonomic solutions available 
through the Cintas Ergo  Catalog. 
Employee-partners can also submit their 
own suggestions to reduce motions 
or strains and enter our own Ergo 
Competition. Entries are evaluated The VPP certification process is rigorous. 
To achieve certification, businesses 
must demonstrate that management 
and employees work cooperatively – 
and proactively – to prevent workplace 
accidents. They must display a joint 
commitment to hazard prevention and 
control, perform ongoing analysis, 
and implement effective training 
programs. Every location that earns VPP 
certification must provide OSHA with 
annual detailed reports outlining their 
safety and health process improvements. 
These locations must also undergo a 
rigorous on-site audit by OSHA and 
third-party assessors every three to five 
years to maintain their  certification. 
As of August 31, 2021, a total of 117 
of our locations achieved VPP Star 
certification27 – three times more than 
any other U.S.  company.
EMPLOYEE-PARTNERS CENTRAL TO 
IDENTIFYING  CONCERNS
A key element of our safety and health 
success is our employee-partners’ 
continued personal investment in our 
journey. Safety is truly a team effort 
at Cintas, and has helped us create a 
deeper, more direct connection with 
our people. 
While they are on the job, our employee-
partners are trained to identify risks and 
issues in their work area, report issues, 
and not perform dangerous work, or 
work in dangerous conditions that could 
cause injury or  harm. 
27 OSHA records as of Aug. 31, 2021. Retrieved from osha.gov/vpp/bylocation on Oct. 3, 2021.
47
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
SHARING OUR SAFETY  KNOWLEDGE
Our S&H Team isn’t just focused on our 
employee-partners’ daily routines. It’s also 
a key resource during internal-use product 
and equipment reviews and installations, 
and our process efficiency  developments. 
Our dedication to raising world-class safety 
and health standards doesn’t stop at our 
doors. Members of our award-winning S&H 
Team regularly offer ongoing education 
sessions at safety and health conferences 
and symposiums around the world, and 
also serve on influential professional safety 
and health boards, panels, and  committees. 
Further, we’ve developed the Safeload 
system for safer, more ergonomic 
handling of soiled laundry, and the 
wash-alley safety system for safe access 
to industrial laundry equipment. We’ve 
also introduced the patented Graceport 
device for safe electrical maintenance 
(now widely used outside our company), 
and we have codified contractor safety 
qualification  processes. 
At the request of the Honduran 
government, we helped establish a 
standard for safety and health, and 
became the first workplace in Honduras 
to receive the “Safe Company with Safe 
Work”  designation.for their low-cost creativity for solving 
common work-related issues like lifting, 
reaching, pushing, or pulling. Winners 
are entered in national and international 
ergonomics competitions where they 
compete against employees from other 
companies around the globe. Our 
employee-partners have won Ergo Cups 
in various categories at the Applied 
Ergonomics Conference three times in 
the last four years, and our employee-
partners’ solutions have also been 
recognized by the International Council 
on Systems  Engineering.
As the COVID-19 pandemic continued 
through FY21 and beyond, we updated 
and adjusted our COVID-19 Preparedness 
Plan, using updated Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC) and 
OSHA advisories as guidance. On top 
of enhancing our cleaning protocols at 
all of our locations following OSHA’s 
directives, all employee-partners are 
expected to perform daily at-home 
health assessments, increase personal 
hygiene and hand washing, wear masks in 
public and shared areas, social distance, 
and adhere to capacity reductions in 
public and shared areas. Additionally, 
work-from-home options were made 
available to employee-partners whose 
job functions allowed  it. 
SAFETY & HEALTH  DATA UNITS FY21
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)28% 1.70%
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR)29% 0.55%
Fatalities (Cintas Employee-Partners) Qty. 0
28 Calculated per 100 workers, based on 200,000 hours worked.
29 Calculated per 100 workers, based on 200,000 hours worked.
48
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN AND SUPPLIER  RELATIONS
A critical component of our business is 
our global supply chain, which provides 
our employee-partners with the goods 
and products required to help our 
customers get Ready for the Workday®. 
To support our relationships with our 
largest Global Supply Chain Suppliers, 
our Global Supply Chain (GSC) 
Department is structured to effectively 
support the three main segments of 
Cintas’ business: Garment (Rental 
Uniform and Design Collective), Facility 
Services, and First Aid & Safety/Fire. GSC 
primarily manages our largest corporate 
Global Supply Chain Suppliers. These 
suppliers generally reach $1 million 
or more in purchases by Cintas and 
must meet specific requirements to do 
business with  us. 
Global Supply Chain Suppliers are 
expected to adhere to our corporate 
policies on purchase agreements 
and supplier compliance, including 
stipulations on contractual obligations, 
administrative tasks, supplier business 
review requirements, purchase 
agreement approval levels, and Code of 
Conduct  requirements.
We procure goods and products 
from a global network that includes 
vendors in the United States as well 
as from China, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Ethiopia, Germany, Guatemala, Haiti, 
Honduras, India, Kenya, Malaysia, 
Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Philippines, 
Portugal, and  Vietnam. Our supply chain procures almost 
90% of the finished products for our 
uniform rental garments and our Design 
Collective garments. Our suppliers help 
us both manufacture our owned brands 
(Cintas, Design Collective by Cintas, Doc 
and Amelia, and Fourmy), and acquire 
products from national  brands. 
Additionally, we obtain raw materials 
and garment components, such as 
fabric, reflective striping, buttons, snaps, 
zippers and threads, from Global Supply 
Chain Suppliers that invest in their own 
research and development. We will often 
facilitate the acquisition of the necessary 
raw materials they need to manufacture 
our products.
VENDOR CODE OF  CONDUCT
Cintas is committed to sourcing its 
finished goods and supply products in a 
lawful, ethical, and responsible manner. 
To that end, we expect Global Supply 
Chain Suppliers to conduct business in 
an equally ethical and moral manner, 
both domestically and  internationally. 
Global Supply Chain Suppliers are 
expected to comply with our rigorous 
Vendor Code of Conduct , which outlines 
our guidelines and requirements. Some 
key provisions in the Code include fair 
labor standards, as per ILO definitions, 
as well as conflict minerals policies and 
anti-corruption  requirements. Our Vendor Code of Conduct also 
stipulates penalties – up to and 
including the cancellation or denial of 
Cintas business – should provisions be 
violated. Global Supply Chain Suppliers 
are subject to annual, in-person audits 
that review more than 300 points of 
business. These audits are conducted 
by independent third-party inspectors, 
including those who certify under 
Worldwide Responsible Accredited 
Production (WRAP) standards, or others 
who are certified in global compliance 
audit standards. Global Supply Chain 
Suppliers are assessed against corrective 
action plans (CAPs) if any issues are 
identified during the  audits. 
As we continue our enterprise business 
review related to our ESG priorities 
and begin to identify targets as of part 
of our ambition to achieve Net Zero 
GHG emissions by 2050, we anticipate 
collecting Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
data from our Global Supply Chain 
Suppliers. We intend to work with them 
to identify ways to reduce their GHG 
emissions across their own value chain. 
Lowering our Scope 3 emissions, as well 
as minimizing our downstream water 
use, waste, and raw materials needs, will 
be vital to achieving Net Zero by 2050 
and lessening the overall environmental 
impact of our value  chain. HUMAN RIGHTS  STANDARDS
Our Vendor Code of Conduct promotes 
Global Supply Chain Suppliers’ 
compliance with standards regarding 
human rights and fair labor practices. 
These include laws and regulations related 
to working hours, wages, and overtime 
pay; child labor; prison, forced, enslaved, 
or trafficked labor; discrimination; paying 
for work; and collective bargaining and 
the right to  organize. 
More information about our corporate 
position on these matters is available in 
the Human Rights section of this  report. 
ASSESSING AND MONITORING NEW 
GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN  SUPPLIERS
To confirm we work with Global Supply 
Chain Suppliers that prioritize ethical 
working standards and treat their 
employees fairly, we assess all potential 
new vendors and monitor current  suppliers. 
While we recognize that many different 
legal and cultural environments exist 
throughout the world, our Vendor 
Code of Conduct details our basic 
expectations for Global Supply Chain 
Suppliers to do business with  us. 
Potential new Global Supply Chain 
Suppliers and new vendor facilities 
undergo a review and assessment 
process. Our sourcing group identifies 
the potential new supplier or facility and 
triggers a social compliance  exam. 
49
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
Before the assessment process 
begins, some situations – including 
geographic location or types of goods 
being manufactured – may also trigger 
a preliminary risk evaluation of the 
potential facility, which is conducted by a 
Cintas field  engineer.
The actual assessment, conducted by 
an independent third-party auditor, 
continues with a physical compliance 
audit of the facility, which includes more 
than 300 points of business. Cintas 
GSC staff then work with the supplier 
to produce the required compliance 
documentation and explain any actions 
needed to comply with our Vendor Code 
of Conduct through a  C A P. 
These findings are categorized as Below 
Minimum Standards (BMS), Immediate 
Action (IA), and Corrective Action 
(CA). The report outlines the corrective 
measures required for any finding, with 
the potential for a follow-up audit to 
document compliance. Once corrective 
actions are supported with proper 
documentation, the supplier or facility is 
certified to do business with Cintas as a 
Global Supply Chain  Supplier.
If the facility already holds a compliance 
certification from an independent 
certification agency (such as WRAP , 
Intertek, SA8000, or another recognized 
body), those certifications generally 
satisfy our  requirements. Once a supplier is certified as a Global 
Supply Chain Supplier, they are subject 
to annual compliance audits – similar 
to the initial assessment process – to 
maintain our business. These audits 
are typically conducted in person by 
independent inspectors who are trained 
on local labor laws and requirements; 
are fluent in the language(s) spoken 
by management and employees; and 
engage directly with facility leadership 
and conduct employee  interviews.
FY21 Monitoring
In FY21, we conducted 139 supplier 
audits with in-person visits by third-
party auditors and confirmed current 
certification for suppliers holding current 
third-party certifications or with the Cintas 
Desktop Remote audit process. However, 
COVID-19’s impact on travel restrictions 
and health and safety necessitated some 
temporary adjustments to some elements 
of our audit  process. 
As a result, we also conducted fewer 
audits of low- to medium-risk Global 
Supply Chain Suppliers, and waived audit 
requirements for the year for suppliers 
that were deemed to be low  risk.
PROMOTING ETHICAL  INTERACTIONS
Training on Supply Chain Issues 
Internally at Cintas, employee-partners 
with direct responsibility for supply chain 
management receive mandatory internal 
training so they are knowledgeable and 
aware of social issues that could arise 
in a global supply chain. These include the risk of child labor, human trafficking, 
and modern slavery, as well as issues 
concerning conflict  minerals. 
Using real-life scenarios and referencing 
current global regulations, Cintas uses 
external TRACE e-learning  resources, 
which specialize in maintaining global 
compliance standards in these areas. 
TRACE courses outline the requirements 
of global trafficking-related statutes, 
including the UK Modern Slavery Act 
and U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
helping learners understand human 
trafficking risks and formulate a plan to 
identify and address trafficked  labor. 
Through Cintas’ anti-corruption training 
program, GSC employee-partners who 
are directly involved in business activities 
that have the potential to elicit bribery 
or corruption activities are identified 
for additional anti-corruption training. 
This annual training is overseen by our 
CCO and separate from other GSC 
training  modules. 
Reporting Concerns
We provide several means for both 
Cintas employee-partners and 
external parties to register concerns 
or report issues about Global Supply 
Chain  Suppliers.
Anyone can report an anonymous 
concern using the Cintas Direct Line – 
either via the phone line or online – 
staffed 24/7 by an independent third 
party. Cintas employee-partners can also 
report concerns to their supervisor, HR, 
or managing executive. External parties, including Global Supply Chain Suppliers, 
can raise concerns during the annual on-
site compliance audit, or through their 
established Cintas relationships with 
category managers and field engineers, 
or as part of annual supplier business 
review  meetings. 
CONFLICT  MINERALS
Cintas does not purchase raw materials 
directly from smelters, and expects 
Global Supply Chain Suppliers 
to source materials from socially 
responsible  sources.
GSC conducts an annual review of 
Global Supply Chain Suppliers to 
identify suppliers that may use conflict 
minerals in their production processes. 
They are reviewed using a qualification 
survey to determine if they may supply 
us components, products, or goods 
manufactured using conflict minerals. 
Those identified are enrolled in our 
Conflict Mineral Training seminar so 
they understand our Conflict Minerals 
Policy , and must also report their conflict 
minerals use to us. We then submit 
that information to the extent required 
to the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission  (SEC). 
Global Supply Chain Suppliers 
that do not comply with our annual 
conflict minerals review are subject to 
penalties, up to and including denial of 
Cintas  business. 
50
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
SUPPLIER  DIVERSITY
We believe a diverse supplier base 
provides enhanced product offerings, 
better meets customer needs, and 
reflects the ever-changing demographics 
of the communities in which we do 
business. It also provides increased 
competition, creativity, and flexibility in 
our supply  chain. 
Cintas uses many different suppliers 
to fulfill its business needs, and one 
metric we’ve prioritized is our spend 
with certified diverse suppliers. To 
qualify as a diverse supplier at Cintas, 
the vendor must be a for-profit business 
headquartered in the United States or 
its trust territories, and be at least 51% 
owned, operated, and controlled by a 
U.S. citizen who is a minority, woman, 
or veteran.
In FY21, we spent $387.7 million with 
certified diverse suppliers, which 
represents 16.9% of our total U.S. 
supplier spend – setting records for 
both total spend and spend percentage. 
Our FY21 supplier diversity spend was 
significantly higher than any previous 
year as a direct result of four primary 
suppliers of PPE – like masks, gloves, 
and isolation gowns – being certified 
diverse  suppliers. 
Since FY07, we have spent $2.8 billion 
with diverse suppliers. In the decade 
since FY12, we’ve increased our 
percentage of spend from 10.2%, with our 
percentage of spend fluctuating between 
11.4% and 12.7% from FY16 to  FY20. To champion and promote our supplier 
diversity initiatives, we’ve created our 
Supplier Diversity Executive Steering 
Committee, a group of more than 35 
Cintas executives who serve as change 
agents and advocates for diverse 
suppliers throughout our company. They 
help educate employee-partners on 
the value proposition and competitive 
advantage that supplier diversity  offers. 
We believe our award-winning supplier 
diversity program is a model for our 
industry and business, and continue 
to work with various national and local 
advocacy agencies, including the 
National Minority Supplier Development 
Council and the Women’s Business 
Enterprise National Council. In 
Cincinnati, where we are headquartered, 
we work with minority business 
organizations like the African American 
Chamber of Commerce and the Hispanic 
Chamber, and Minority Business 
Accelerator – both subgroups of the 
Cincinnati USA  Chamber. 
Our program has been successful 
since its launch, and we are looking 
for additional ways to include diverse 
suppliers in our supply chain. While we 
aim to increase our year-over-year spend 
with diverse suppliers overall, we’re 
also looking to increase our spend with 
veteran- and service-disabled veteran-
owned  businesses. YEAR % OF U.S. SPEND DOLLAR SPEND ON DIVERSE SUPPLIERS
FY17 11.7% $208.6M
FY18 12.1% $231.3M
FY19 12.7% $277.9M
FY20 11.4% $247.8M
FY21 16.9% $3 87.7M
SPEND ON DIVERSE  SUPPLIERS
51
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
LOCAL  COMMUNITIES
We’re immensely proud of the impact 
we’ve had in our local communities 
through our corporate philanthropic 
activities. This includes monetary 
donations, in-kind donations, and active 
fundraising on behalf of key charitable 
and not-for-profit organizations, 
which we collectively brand under the 
banner of Cintas Cares , our corporate 
philanthropic  arm. 
As a company, we have six primary 
philanthropic partnerships and initiatives: 
American Cancer Society, American 
Diabetes Association, American Heart 
Association, National Fallen Firefighters 
Foundation, Matthew 25: Ministries, 
and the Cintas Partner Assistance Fund. 
These are outlined in more detail on the 
next two  pages.Managed at the corporate level through 
the Corporate Affairs Department, these 
six initiatives allow involvement from 
all of our U.S. locations and employee-
partners. Our Canadian employee-
partners engage and support local 
organizations concerned with cancer, 
diabetes, and heart  health.
A key component of our philanthropic 
success is the passion our employee-
partners have for giving back. Our 
Impact Champions program helps 
bring our initiatives to life at our local 
operations and provides a national 
footprint for our efforts. More than 250 
Impact Champions across the company 
work with their local human resources 
staff to generate awareness and buy-in 
for our major  initiatives. 
We’ve seen incredible local support 
for, and commitment to, these 
national  partnerships.
Senior VP Todd Gregory, President and CEO Todd Schneider, Rental President and COO Jim Rozakis, Senior VP 
Scott Garula, Executive Chairman Scott Farmer, Fire Protection President and COO John Amann and First Aid 
& Safety President and COO Mark Carter celebrate Cintas’ philanthropic partnership with the American Heart 
Association on National Wear Red  Day.
52
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY AMERICAN DIABETES ASSOCIATIONOUR CORPORATE  PARTNERSHIPS
American Cancer Society
At a corporate level, our relationship with 
the American Cancer Society began in 
2020 and includes fundraising through 
national Relay for Life and Making 
Strides Against Breast Cancer events. 
We also support the organization with 
a company-wide apparel sale each fall, 
with the proceeds from our Canadian 
employee-partners’ purchases directed 
to the Canadian Cancer  Society. 
Through this partnership, our employee-
partners have access to some of the 
American Cancer Society’s support American Diabetes Association
Our relationship with the American 
Diabetes Association began in 2019 
and was established to raise awareness 
about diabetes among underserved 
and minority communities. Through 
this partnership, the American Diabetes 
Association also has a business 
partnership with our First Aid & Safety 
division to produce health kits with first 
aid items frequently needed by diabetics, 
which has raised more than $250,000.
resources, including the Road To 
Recovery® program, 24/7 live online 
patient support, live webinars about 
cancer prevention with medical experts, 
and access to Hope Lodge if they must 
travel out of town for  treatment. 
Although our corporate relationship 
was established recently, Cintas 
employee-partners have long supported 
the American Cancer Society at a 
grassroots level. Over the years, we have 
helped raise almost $1 million across 
our locations.The American Diabetes Association 
provides free, confidential diabetes 
risk-testing to our employee-partners 
so they can understand their potential 
for developing Type 2 diabetes. It also 
provides access to its Diabetes Food 
Hub app with recipe and meal-planning 
options for those living with  diabetes. 
53
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION NATIONAL FALLEN FIREFIGHTERS FOUNDATION
American Heart Association
The American Heart Association (AHA) 
is one of our longest-standing corporate 
philanthropic relationships, dating back 
to 2005. Cintas partners with the AHA 
as a provider of CPR, first aid, and AED 
training nationwide, and our certified 
trainers in our First Aid & Safety division 
teach AHA’s certification curriculum in 
their courses. Since 2016, we have trained 
and certified more than 800,000 people 
in lifesaving CPR and first  aid.September 11, 2001. The funds raised at 
those events support families of fallen 
firefighters and other New York City Fire 
Department  programs. 
The NFFF relationship is also an 
opportunity for Cintas to engage directly 
with local fire departments when we host 
the organization’s Prevent the Preventable 
learning and development programs at 
locations across the United  States.
National Fallen Firefighters Foundation 
We formalized our relationship with the 
National Fallen Firefighters Foundation 
(NFFF), our latest corporate philanthropic 
partner, in 2021. The NFFF works closely 
with our Fire Protection division on 
a variety of key initiatives. Cintas is a 
Chief Sponsor of the organization’s 
9/11 Memorial Stair Climbs program, 
which features fundraisers across 
the United States in September and 
October in observance of the events on Each year, Cintas employee-partners 
across the United States participate in 
both the Heart Mini-Marathon & Walk 
and the national Heart Walk. Almost 500 
employee-partners participated in the 
two virtual events in 2021, raising almost 
$50,000 – a total that contributed toward 
our overall $100,000 annual commitment 
to the organization. Cintas is also a 
sponsor of the organization’s Go Red for 
Women  campaign.
54
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
Matthew 25: Ministries
Our extensive partnership with Matthew 
25: Ministries goes back to 1998 and 
is our longest-standing corporate 
philanthropic  relationship. 
We assist Matthew 25: Ministries with 
its national and global disaster relief 
efforts by providing Cintas products 
and garments for the organization to 
distribute in displaced communities. The 
organization’s disaster response includes 
a Cintas-branded van, which we donated 
to assist with their on-the-ground efforts 
in disaster  areas. Cintas Partner Assistance Fund 
We launched the Cintas Partner 
Assistance Fund (CPAF) in 2019 to 
provide financial assistance to our own 
employee-partners who have been 
negatively affected by natural disasters. 
Started with $500,000 in seed money 
from Cintas, the fund is now valued at 
almost $4 million – including ongoing 
donations from our own employee-
partners through weekly payroll 
deductions and one-time  contributions. 
The mission of the CPAF aligns with 
our company’s ambition to reduce its 
environmental impact and support 
CPAF: WEST VIRGINIA FLOODING MATTHEW 25: MINISTRIESIn the past, we have also partnered with 
Matthew 25: Ministries to bring Cintas 
employee-partners on mission trips to 
Haiti and the Appalachian area of West 
Virginia, as part of our annual Clothe 
the Kids campaign. Since 2003, our 
employee-partners have donated almost 
4 million articles of clothing and school 
supplies for disadvantaged children 
and contributed thousands of volunteer 
hours. As well as helping children in 
need, the program also contributes 
to the circular economy by finding a 
positive way to reuse items of  clothing.global efforts to mitigate climate change. 
With catastrophic weather events rising 
across North America – with all types of 
natural disasters causing greater harm 
and damage – we recognize the need 
to provide support for our employee-
partners when these challenging situations 
occur, many times  unexpectedly. 
While eligibility to receive financial 
assistance from CPAF is currently limited 
to those affected by natural disasters, 
we hope to soon expand eligibility to 
include other catastrophic life events, 
to further aid our employee-partners in 
their times of greatest  need.
55
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
LOCAL  PROGRAMS
In addition to these six programs, we also 
have successful programs supported by 
our corporate headquarters in Cincinnati. 
These include relationships with Adopt 
A Class, where teams of volunteer 
employee-partners present weekly 
lessons in local classrooms; the United 
Way of Greater Cincinnati; and Dress for 
Success in  Cincinnati.
Our field locations across the United 
States and Canada are also encouraged 
to get involved in their local communities 
and form relationships that are 
meaningful to their businesses. We also 
provide toolkits and support to locations 
interested in initiating these types of 
civic and community relationships in their 
cities and  towns. UNITED WAY DRESS FOR SUCCESS
ADOPT A CLASS
56
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
GOVERNANCE
58 ESG Governance
60 Ethics and Integrity 
61 Tax Policy
62 Public Policy
63 Cybersecurity, Data, and Customer Privacy
64 Regulatory Compliance
57
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX ABOUT CINTAS SOCIALESG  GOVERNANCE
GOVERNANCE  APPROACH
We believe establishing strong and 
ethical governance is foundational to 
achieving our Principal Objective: to 
exceed our customers’ expectations to 
maximize the long-term value of Cintas 
for our shareholders and employee-
partners. This approach aligns and drives 
our financial and social performance 
and helps ensure accountability and 
legitimacy for our  stakeholders. 
Our governance and management 
structure are guided by our Code of 
Conduct and Business Ethics , which 
establishes clear and consistent 
expectations for decision-making by 
all Cintas Directors and employee-
partners. Our Code of Conduct requires 
adherence to laws and regulations 
and helps preserve the integrity of our 
company. Each Director, executive, 
manager, and employee-partner is 
required to undergo Code of Conduct 
and Ethics training upon joining the 
company, sign an acknowledgment of 
its contents, and complete additional 
annual  training. 
We are committed to being a 
responsible corporate citizen and strive 
to incorporate ESG principles and 
considerations into the daily operations 
of our business. Under the Board’s 
direction of our strategic approach to 
sustainable long-term value creation, 
we aim to operate our business in a way 
that is consistent with protecting the 
environment and enhancing humanity while maintaining accountability  for  
our actions and  decisions. 
As we consider our business decisions, 
we leverage internal processes that 
include disciplined due diligence and 
risk assessment to evaluate potential 
outcomes. Our Principal Objective 
and our strategic plans also factor 
heavily in our planning. Our business 
activities involve fossil fuel, water, and 
raw material use, and generate GHG 
emissions and waste, and we are aware 
of the risks these pose. We work with 
our Board of Directors, management, 
and stakeholders to run our business in 
a manner that aims to reduce, mitigate, 
or eliminate our impact in these  areas.
GOVERNANCE  STRUCTURE
Our governance is placed in the hands 
of our Board of Directors, our highest 
governing body. The Board is elected 
annually by a one-for-one vote of 
Cintas shareholders and oversees the 
management of our company,  
as spelled out in our Corporate 
Governance  Guidelines . 
Today, the Board is made up of nine 
Directors – seven men and two women – 
and 33% of the Board is diverse (in terms 
of gender, race, or ethnicity). The Board 
has created four working committees to 
address key issues in greater detail: the 
Audit Committee , Compensation 
Committee , Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee  and 
Executive  Committee. More information about our Board, 
including independent board leadership 
responsibilities and its good governance 
positions, is available in our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines . Additional 
nomination information, Board 
governance, and committee activities are 
available in our FY21 Proxy  Statement. 
During the 2021 calendar year, our Board 
underwent a few notable changes. Scott 
Farmer, who had served as both our CEO 
and Chairman since June 2016, retired as 
our CEO and transitioned to become our 
Executive Chairman as of June 1, 2021. 
On this same date, Todd Schneider was 
appointed as our new President and 
CEO, and joined the Board as a new 
Director. In connection with his 
appointment to the Board, the  Board  
was expanded by one  seat. 
After five years with a governance 
structure that included a joint role of 
Chairman and CEO, we will now operate 
under a structure that designates the 
Board of Directors’ Chairman position 
and the company’s CEO position to 
separate  individuals. 
All members of the Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee, the 
Audit Committee, and the 
Compensation Committee meet the 
independence requirements that apply 
to those committee assignments, as 
established both by Nasdaq and the 
Sarbanes–Oxley  Act.FY22 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
More information about our Board 
members, including biographical 
information and professional affiliations, 
is available in our FY21 Proxy  Statement.
Gerald S.  Adolph   
Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee  Chairman
John F.  Barrett   
Audit Committee, Nominating and 
Corporate Governance  Committee
Melanie W.  Barstad   
Compensation Committee, 
Nominating and Corporate 
Governance  Committee
Karen L.  Carnahan   
Audit Committee, Nominating and 
Corporate Governance  Committee
Robert E.  Coletti  
Executive  Committee
Scott D. Farmer (Executive Chairman) 
Executive  Committee
Joseph Scaminace (Lead Director) 
Compensation Committee, 
Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee Chairman, 
Executive Committee  Chairman
Todd M.  Schneider
Ronald W.  Tysoe   
Nominating and Corporate 
Governance  Committee
58
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
ESG  OVERSIGHT
Instead of delegating oversight of risk to 
a specific committee, our entire Board 
oversees our risk management process. 
This includes our ESG-related strategies 
and initiatives, given their importance to 
our business. 
The Board oversees and monitors ESG-
related matters, including environmental 
programs, workplace conduct, training 
and development, employee-partner 
health and wellness, diversity and 
inclusion, pay equity, workplace conduct, 
responsible and ethical sourcing, 
cybersecurity and data privacy,  and  
our principal operations,  business,  
and  compliance. 
We use an enterprise risk management 
(ERM) process to monitor, measure, 
and manage risks; review our risk 
exposure; and elevate certain key risks 
for discussion at the Board level as 
appropriate. ESG-related matters are 
reviewed regularly by the full Board, 
as well as during committee meetings 
as necessary. 
In addition to the Board membership 
changes in 2021, Cintas created a new 
executive position to lead all of our ESG 
efforts. Our new Vice President of ESG 
and CCO reports to the General Counsel 
and has assumed the responsibility of 
providing regular updates to, conducting 
informational exchanges with, and 
seeking input from the Board about the 
company’s strategy and progress  in  
ESG  areas. The Vice President of ESG and CCO 
will work with business and functional 
leaders across our company to determine 
our ongoing sustainability strategies, as 
well as policies and goals related to our 
corporate responsibility  initiatives. 
Additionally, the Senior Vice President 
of Human Resources and Chief Diversity 
Officer provides ongoing updates 
to the Board about the company’s 
human capital and diversity, equity, 
and inclusion efforts, as well as its 
strategy and performance against 
established  goals. 
We encourage our stakeholders to 
provide feedback about our ESG 
activities to us through their standard 
stakeholder communications channels, 
including their direct relationships, 
publicly available means like the Cintas 
Direct Line, and written correspondence 
to ESG@cintas.com or our Secretary, as 
spelled out in our 2021 Proxy  Statement.
CRITICAL  CONCERNS
Should a critical concern be identified, 
it would be presented to the Audit 
Committee and then immediately 
reported to the full Board. No critical 
concerns were identified in  FY21. REPORTING CONCERNS
Cintas is committed to maintaining an 
ethical, responsible workplace. Our 
Code of Conduct and Business Ethics  
requires our employee-partners and 
those with whom we do business to 
comply with all applicable laws and 
regulations, and to report situations or 
issues that are in violation of the law, our 
company policies, and our core  principles. 
We document concerns and strive to 
maintain, within the limits allowed by 
the law, the confidentiality of anyone 
requesting guidance or reporting 
questionable behavior and/or a possible 
violation. Company policy prohibits 
retaliation against any employee-partner 
raising or reporting a business conduct 
or ethical issue, or a perceived violation 
of policies or  laws. Both employee-partners  and  
external parties have access to several 
mechanisms to report questions or 
concerns. Anyone can report any 
violations or concerns through our Direct 
Line (online or phone), a confidential 
third-party resource that is dedicated 
to Cintas’ stakeholders and operated 
24 hours, 7 days a  week.
Additionally, employee-partners 
have a structured avenue to report 
concerns – as outlined in our corporate 
policy – about lines of communications 
within the company. This structure 
begins with their supervisors, HR, or 
compliance departments. External 
parties also have their own direct 
communications channels in which they 
can register  concerns.
59
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
ETHICS AND  INTEGRITY
“One of Cintas’ biggest 
strengths has always been 
our insistence on honesty 
and integrity from every 
partner in the company.” 
  Scott Farmer,
  Executive Chairman  
(CEO, 2003-2021)
We are committed to interacting with 
our customers, employee-partners, 
competitors, coworkers, shareholders, 
vendors, government and regulatory 
agencies, and the communities in 
which we do business in a respectful, 
ethical manner and in compliance with 
regulatory and legal  requirements.
We maintain many corporate policies 
and training programs to promote a 
culture of compliance, and promote 
our stakeholders’ understanding of our 
principles and values related to  ethics  
and  integrity. 
We provide confidential, retaliation-
free outlets for internal and external 
stakeholders to report concerns or 
apparent  issues. 
We believe we conduct our business the 
right way, perpetuating the highest levels 
of ethics and  integrity. TRAINING
Cintas employee-partners receive 
training about our Code of Conduct and 
Business Ethics  on their first official day 
of employment with us. They also receive 
a booklet containing the Code at their 
orientation session and must sign an 
acknowledgment that they have received 
and understand the  training. 
Additionally, employee-partners must 
complete three different annual training 
courses focusing on ethics and integrity: 
Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, 
Workplace Harassment Prevention, 
and Workplace Violence Prevention. 
These are either completed through an 
online training-on-demand platform 
or conducted in person for employee-
partners who do not have computer 
access at work. Our annual training results 
are also reported to the Board of Directors 
to confirm we’re maintaining  compliance. 
Further, management-track employee-
partners also receive a copy of The Spirit 
Is The Difference . Written by our Founder 
Richard “Dick” Farmer, the book further 
articulates our corporate culture and how 
it functions within our Code of Conduct 
and Business  Ethics. 
Additional position- or responsibility-
specific training is required annually for 
various employee-partners,  including:
• AB1825 Training  – Employee-partners 
who are California residents and 
employee-partners who work outside 
of California but manage employee-
partners located in  California• Information Security Awareness – 
Employee-partners who have 
computer access at  work
• Anti-Corruption Training  – Employee-
partners who could potentially interact 
with a foreign official or  representative
• PCI Training  – Employee-partners who 
could have access to credit card  data
ANTI-BRIBERY AND  CORRUPTION
Under the direction of our senior 
management’s annual Enterprise Risk 
Assessment, our Risk & Compliance 
Department conducts annual reviews of 
our business operation for corruption 
risks. We have not identified any instances 
of corruption during this  process. 
Risks that have been identified during our 
annual business review include our foreign 
global supply chain operations, which 
hire local employee-partners with cultural 
differences; doing business in markets 
known for corruption; using customs 
brokers or carriers to import products 
from international suppliers; and potential 
vendor or third-party  relationships. 
Additionally, our expansive Business 
Ethics Corporate Position covers many 
topics and concerns and outlines our 
expectations of our employee-partners 
in those situations. This policy is 
communicated to our governance body 
and employee-partners, who receive 
training on its  contents. Further, our Risk & Compliance 
Department ensures that all appropriate 
vendors working with our global supply 
chain are aware of our policies and 
expectations, which are spelled out 
in our Vendor Code of Conduct. Our 
vendors’ compliance is monitored 
through annual third-party  audits. 
Every year, we identify employee-
partners directly involved in our business 
activities who have the potential to 
elicit bribery or corruption activities. 
Those employee-partners are required 
to undergo additional anti-corruption 
training, and we perform audits on 
a regular basis to support ongoing 
compliance and identify potential  issues. 
ANTI-COMPETITIVE  BEHAVIOR
We pride ourselves on operating our 
business in an ethical and lawful manner, 
a cornerstone of our corporate culture. 
We believe in adhering to all laws 
and regulations, including those that 
promote free and fair competition  in  
the marketplace. 
Our Code of Conduct and Business 
Ethics and our Anti-Corruption 
Corporate Policy require all employee-
partners to comply with all laws and 
regulations related to competition and 
antitrust, including those that prohibit 
collusion to manipulate a market. Topics 
in this area are also included in our 
Code of Conduct and Business Ethics 
annual  training.
60
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
TAX  POLICY
We are a transparent taxpayer. We are 
open about the taxes we pay and our 
projected effective tax rate guidance 
on our financial reports and during 
our quarterly earnings calls, which are 
available to the  public.
We review our tax strategy under a 
low-risk methodology, and believe we 
have a responsibility to pay our fair 
share of taxes. We are committed to 
complying with all applicable tax laws 
and requirements in each jurisdiction in 
which we conduct  business. 
To help ensure we identify, withhold, 
report, and pay the correct tax 
requirements and avoid potential 
compliance issues, the company 
maintains a tax strategy created by the 
Vice President of Tax, overseen and 
approved by the Chief Financial Officer, 
and presented to the Audit Committee 
of the Board of Directors. Ongoing 
risk assessments are conducted to 
help identify and rectify any potential 
compliance issues. Pertinent changes 
in regulatory policy or guidance 
are communicated to executive 
management so they understand the 
business implications. We regularly utilize 
third-party advisors to review our current 
tax strategy and provide  guidance. Our tax disclosures that appear in 
our audited financial statements are 
prepared in accordance with GAAP 
ASC 740 and SEC reporting standards 
in all material respects. Ernst & Young, 
our independent auditing firm, examines 
our tax-related disclosures as part of its 
review of our SEC  filings. 
Cintas engages with federal and statutory 
tax authorities as audits arise, and we 
work to maintain a transparent approach 
to all audits. If a difference in approach 
transpires during an audit, Cintas works 
with the jurisdiction to determine a 
reasonable settlement  position.
Our tax implications and financial 
benefits available from government 
entities are regularly evaluated as part of 
normal business operations and decision-
making. In the last three fully reported 
fiscal years, we received $6.7 million in tax 
relief from the U.S. government through 
multiple incentive programs, including 
various employment credits. Further, 
in the last three fiscal years, we have 
received $20 million in tax deductions 
resulting from charitable donations, 
including a total of $8 million in  FY21. 
We actively engage a third-party 
representative to assist our advocacy and 
education efforts on benefits of tax policy, 
most notably the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs 
Act and current tax policy  priorities.
61
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
Donations are not made to 
presidential  candidates. 
During the 2020 election cycle, the 
PAC made donations to 12 political 
entities  totaling $58,000. In this figure, 
both major political parties were 
represented – including $46,000 to 
candidates or election organizations 
representing Republicans and $12,000 
to candidates or election organizations 
representing Democrats. This included 
a total of $10,000 to elected officials 
representing the Ohio districts where 
our corporate office is located and the 
counties in which most of our corporate 
employee-partners  live.POLITICAL  ACTION
Cintas regularly and proactively engages 
with a cross-section of policymakers at 
the federal and state levels, as well as 
regulatory bodies, about four issues 
central to our business: infrastructure, 
labor, taxes, and  trade. 
We also collaborate with corporate, 
industry, and trade organizations to 
determine positions on these issues to 
support continued growth. Given the 
size of some of these organizations and 
Cintas’ position, the public viewpoints 
expressed by some of these groups do 
not always align with our  views. 
Our advocacy and public policy efforts 
are targeted at communicating Cintas’ 
positions on existing and potential 
legislation and regulations; providing 
perspective on regulatory measures 
that affect our business; and providing 
testimony under oath when necessary 
to relay our experiences, positions, and 
perspectives about topics important 
to our business. We conduct this work 
through a variety of means, including 
face-to-face meetings, memos, and 
position papers, as well as political 
contributions through the Partner 
Political Action Committee  (PAC). Guided by our Anti-Corruption 
Corporate Policy, we have established 
a formal process that dictates how 
we may engage with policymakers 
and any related organizations. In 
cooperation with approved third-party 
representatives, the Vice President 
of Corporate Affairs is responsible 
for developing and maintaining the 
pertinent relationships and procedures 
to confirm adherence to the company’s 
advocacy process and coordinates all 
communications between stakeholders 
related to public  policy.
POLITICAL  CONTRIBUTIONS
Our Anti-Corruption Corporate Policy 
outlines the manner in which we may 
engage with political candidates and 
representatives. As a company, Cintas 
Corporation does not contribute to 
political  candidates. 
The PAC supports political contributions 
on behalf of our employee-partners and 
is funded entirely by voluntary personal 
donations from our employee-partners. 
It is not funded by the company, and 
it does not receive any direction from 
the company or its Board of Directors. 
A 12-person executive committee 
operates the PAC and represents 
employee-partners’ perspectives from 
across the  organization.The non-partisan group reviews potential 
political contributions with six  criteria:
• Strategies important to  Cintas
•  Cintas employment presence in their 
district/state
• A reasonably high level of approval in 
their district/state
• Supported legislation or voted in a 
manner that is favorable to Cintas’ 
continued economic  growth
•  Maintained integrity and professional 
dealings in their position in  Congress
•  Member of a committee that has 
influence over issues important 
to CintasPUBLIC  POLICY
62
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
CYBERSECURITY, DATA, AND CUSTOMER  PRIVACY
Our General Privacy Policy outlines our 
policies and procedures governing our 
data collection, data use, and data storage, 
as well as our communications policies 
about these measures. It also enumerates 
special considerations for users in 
California and  Nevada. 
We live and work in an age where 
computers and connected economies 
are essential to daily life – including our 
daily business operations – but they also 
can be vulnerable to outside interference 
and  attacks. 
We rely extensively on computer systems, 
including third-party systems, to process 
transactions, maintain information, and 
manage our businesses. We believe it’s 
in the best interest of our company, our 
customers, our employee-partners, our 
suppliers, and all of our stakeholders to 
maintain effective, proactive, and up-to-
date cybersecurity measures to protect the 
confidentiality, security, and integrity of 
personal and business  information. 
The Board of Directors’ Audit Committee 
oversees our information security. The 
Chief Information Officer (CIO) regularly 
updates the Audit Committee about 
our information security processes, 
including new platforms and systems, 
IT security/governance, and prevailing 
threats and countermeasures in place 
to protect Cintas’ systems. The CIO also 
provides topical updates to the full Board 
throughout the year. Further, the Audit 
Committee monitors the compliance for 
our annual Information Security Awareness 
and PCI Compliance training  courses. CYBERSECURITY
Our business relies on complex, 
integrated computer systems, 
including third-party systems, to be 
successful. These systems provide us 
with convenient and instant access to 
customer and supplier information, 
process transactions worldwide, and 
provide other general information 
necessary to run our  business. 
We have experienced cybersecurity 
incidents in the past but none of these 
incidents, individually or combined, 
have had a material adverse effect on 
our business or operations. We have a 
robust network of security controls, policy 
enforcement mechanisms, and monitoring 
systems to help address these  threats. 
We have an active disaster recovery plan 
that’s frequently reviewed and tested. 
However, our computer systems are 
subject to damage or interruption from 
computer or telecommunication failures; 
catastrophic climate-related events 
like fires, tornadoes, and hurricanes; 
power outages; and employee-partner 
usage  errors.
While we believe that we have adopted 
appropriate measures to mitigate 
and nullify many apparent potential 
computer- and network-related 
disruptions, our business still faces an 
unknown and unpredictable  risk. 
63
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
REGULATORY  COMPLIANCE
During FY21, we did not identify any 
substantiated significant concerns 
received through normal grievance 
channels about our actions related to 
the environment, health and safety, 
discriminatory practices, violations 
involving the rights of indigenous 
peoples, product and service 
information, or labeling  and  
marketing  communications. 
We were subject to a comparatively 
minor number of environmental 
noncompliance issues related to local 
ordinances at a small number of locations 
across the country. After being notified 
of these issues, we took appropriate 
corrective actions to confirm the 
noncompliance did not continue and 
paid any necessary remittance. None of 
these issues resulted in  material  
or significant fines or penalties  to  
the company under  applicable  
reporting  requirements. 
None of our locations are situated on 
designated protected areas. In FY21, 
none of our facilities contributed spills 
that were material to our company or the 
communities in which they are  located. 
Additional information about other legal 
proceedings is available in  our  
FY21 Form 10-K (pg.  27). 
64
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
APPENDIX
66 Definitions
67  Notes and Methodologies 
68  Referenced Calculations 
71 GRI Index
78 SASB Index 
65
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE APPENDIX
 ABOUT CINTAS SOCIALDEFINITIONS
GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN  SUPPLIERS
References to Global Supply Chain Suppliers throughout this ESG report refer to our 
suppliers, vendors, and business partners that generally facilitate $1 million or more in 
purchases by Cintas and that must meet specific requirements to do business with us. 
Cintas and our locations also regularly do business with other vendors, suppliers, and 
business partners that do not fall within this spend threshold and, for the purpose of 
this report, are not included in this  reporting.
HUNDREDWEIGHT  (CWT)
In the United States, the “short” hundredweight (Cwt) equals 100 pounds (45.36  kg).
RENTAL DIVISION OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED  STATES  
U.S. RENTAL  OPERATIONS  
U.S. RENTAL  LOCATIONS
Our U.S.-based locations and facilities that contribute to our Rental division’s 
operations. In FY21, this included 320 locations, including 187 processing plants and 
133 branches. The number of locations can change year-to-year because of closures, 
consolidation, and/or  relocations. 
ZERO WASTE  PROGRAM
Our “Zero Waste Program” began in FY13 in an effort to decrease our waste destined 
for landfills that originated in our distribution centers (DC). The program initially 
included seven of our DCs, with an eighth joining in FY17. Each DC submits its waste 
diversion information annually to recertify its zero waste TRUE Certification by Green 
Business Certification  Inc.
66
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
NOTES AND  METHODOLOGIES
REPORTING FRAMEWORK & DATA  DISCLOSURES
In our 2021 ESG Report, we have reported our company’s disclosures in reference to 
the Global Reporting Index (GRI) Standards  as they were available on June 1, 2021. 
There are select instances where we have chosen not to report required components 
of GRI’s disclosures because we anticipate forthcoming guidance from U.S. federal 
and regulatory bodies – including the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
and the Nasdaq stock exchange – that may conflict with GRI Standards requirements 
and thus require significant changes to, and restatements of, our data in future years. 
Further, in some areas of our social data, we have chosen to align our disclosures 
with the GRI requirements, rather than the EEO-1 reporting requirements of the U.S. 
federal government (e.g., employee age brackets). As further and continued guidance 
about ESG reporting requirements is provided by the U.S. government and regulatory 
agencies, we expect we will report our data as necessary to meet any statutory 
requirements in future  years.
COVID-19 EFFECT ON DATA AND  PERFORMANCE
Our environmental performance has demonstrated continued improvements from 
FY19 through FY21. However, the COVID-19 pandemic’s effect on our performance and 
data cannot be isolated from other efficiency and process changes that contributed to 
performance  improvements. 
The COVID-19 pandemic began in the fourth quarter of FY20 and continued during all 
four quarters of  FY21. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA EXPANSION IN 2021 ESG  REPORT
Our 2021 ESG Report includes expanded environmental data from what was first 
published in our 2020 ESG  Report. 
For our 2021 report, our energy and emissions data sets were expanded to include all 
locations in the United States in our Rental division footprint – including branches. In 
2020, we reported environmental data for only our Rental processing facilities. All types 
of U.S. Rental locations are included in our 2021 environmental  data. 
Further, data has been recorded for the U.S. Rental fleet and incorporated into the 
energy and emissions data for the reported years. Fleet data was not reported in  2020. EMISSIONS DATA  RESTATEMENTS
In our 2021 ESG Report, we have recalculated our prior emissions data and restated it 
in this data set. On top of the expanded locations included in reporting, we have also 
more accurately assigned location-based emissions factors for the years reported. In our 
2020 ESG Report, our emissions data used country averages for our locations based in 
the United States and Canada. In the 2021 report, the specific emissions factor for each 
location’s utility company was used to calculate emissions values. Additionally, data for 
our U.S. fleet was included in our 2021 environmental data, which also factored into our 
emissions data this  year. 
WATER DATA  ASSUMPTIONS 
Water data has been converted to megaliters (ML) for our 2021 reporting, after being 
reported in kilogallons (kgal) in our 2020 report. When referring to our water data  table: 
•  Withdrawal is the sum of all water meters (including  irrigation). 
• Discharge is treated to meet local discharge water requirements. Discharge is 
calculated from withdrawn water minus consumed  water.
• There has been no change in water storage. Consumed water is the  sum  
of irrigation and 10% (assumed factor of evaporation) of the rest of withdrawn  water.
LAUNDRY PROCESS-SPECIFIC DATA  CALCULATIONS
Data and calculations used in comparisons of Cintas’ performance against at-home 
laundry processes, and our environmental data intensities against poundage, are 
inclusive of our locations that process poundage in the United States. This data set 
includes almost exclusively plants and does not include data from our branches that do 
not process laundry or  poundage.
This specific data set was created for the explicit purpose of conducting comparisons 
of like-for-like processes. Using the same data set as otherwise reported throughout 
our 2021 ESG Report would mean fleet energy data, and non-processing facility energy 
and water data would be included in calculations specifically comparing laundry-only 
processes. The original data set would’ve resulted in skewed and unequal comparisons, 
necessitating the formulation of the processing facility-only data  set. 
Explanations, data points, and calculations made in this Appendix using the processing 
facility-only data set are indicated with an asterisk (*).
67
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
REFERENCED  CALCULATIONS
CINTAS VS. AT-HOME LAUNDRY  COMPARISONS*
Calculations of Cintas’ laundry process efficiency versus traditional at-home laundry 
process efficiency were calculated by Water Solutions Incorporated (WSI) using 
industry-specific calculations, Cintas-specific FY21 water and energy values, and 
general assumptions for both industrial and traditional at-home laundry  processes. 
Cintas’ FY21 values of 1.03 gallons of water used per pound of laundry and 1,530 Btu30 
required per pound of laundry were calculated from our FY21 environmental data by 
ENGIE Impact, and our total poundage processed at all Rental processing facilities 
was collected and calculated by  WSI. 
WSI’s assumptions and data  points: 
• Cintas Laundering: 145°F water temperature, 60°F cold water temperature, 
1.03 gallons of water used per pound, and 450 lb load  size
• Cintas Drying:  145°F drying temperature, 84°F preheat temperature, 1,530 Btu of 
energy used per pound of fabric and 450 lb load  size 
• Traditional At-Home Laundering: 115°F water temperature, 60°F cold water 
temperature, 1.90 gallons of water used per pound,31 and 10.5 lb load  size 
• Traditional At-Home Drying: 115°F drying temperature, 60°F atmospheric 
temperature, 2,143 Btu of energy used per pound of fabric,32 and 10.5 lb load  size
Using this data and WSI’s calculations, traditional at-home laundering uses on average 
84% more water per pound of laundry than Cintas’ laundry process. Further, the 
traditional at-home laundry process – both washing and drying – uses on average 69% 
more energy than Cintas’ washing and drying  process. 
30  British thermal unit.
31  The figure of traditional at-home laundry’s use of 1.9 gallons of water per pound was calculated by WSI from data provided by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ENERGY STAR program in its “What to Consider When Buying a Clothes Washer” tab 
at ENERGY STAR Certified Residential Clothes Washers, accessed on Sept. 24, 2021.
32  WSI used the average Btu per hour requirements of traditional home gas driers (20,000 to 25,000 Btu per hour), as cited on Choose Energy’s website at Buying a Dryer: Natural Gas or Electric?, accessed on Oct. 7, 2021.CINTAS VS. TRSA INDUSTRY  COMPARISONS
The Textile Rental Services Association (TRSA) collects and publishes industry 
sustainability data that includes voluntary contributions from its membership and other 
non-member industry  businesses. 
The last edition of the TRSA Sustainability Report  was published in 2018. The report 
provides results on a variety of topics related to the environment, including water and 
energy usage, production volume, and energy conservation of textile rental operators. 
TRSA collected and received data from 24 operators, totaling 132 plant  facilities. 
Cintas is a member of TRSA but does not contribute to the organization’s sustainability 
reporting. For purposes of comparison, the TRSA industry data points referenced 
below represent the “TRSA Operator Norm” data set in its reporting, and represent the 
standard (mean) textile rental  operator. 
At Cintas, we record and/or report our environmental data in the following  units:
•  Water use  – kilogallons (kgal) and/or megaliters  (ML)
• Energy use  – Gigajoules (GJ) and/or megajoules  (MJ)
• Emissions  – Carbon dioxide equivalents  (CO 2e)
• Poundage  – Hundredweight  (Cwt)
• Revenues  – Millions of U.S. dollars ($M)
TRSA provides its sustainability data in the following  metrics:
•  Water use  – Gallons per pound of laundered items (gal/pound)
• Energy use  – MMBtu and/or Btu per pound of laundered items (Btu/pound)
• Emissions  – CO 2 per pound of laundered items (CO 2/pound)
• Poundage  – Pounds
• Revenues  – Not  applicable
68
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
In order to perform accurate comparisons of our FY21 performance against the last 
available TRSA Operator Norm, we had to convert the industry averages provided by 
TRSA and our data into common units of  measure. 
For TRSA data, MMBtu were converted to Btu and then converted to megajoules (MJ). 
Pounds were converted to hundredweight (100 pounds per hundredweight). Gallons 
were converted to kilogallons  (kgal). Inch Calculator  was used for energy conversions 
and Kyles Converter  was used for water  conversions.
Most Cintas data was already recorded and calculated in the necessary units by ENGIE 
Impact and WSI from the company’s FY21 use and consumption. In the instances where 
the data was provided in like units of measurement, it was converted by the necessary 
factor of 10 to reach the correct degree of  measurement.
We were not able to offer a comparison of our emissions performance against the 2018 
TRSA Operator Norm. TRSA’s Sustainability Report cites participants’ greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions per pound of production, or CO 2 per pound of textiles laundered. 
Cintas’ emissions data is reported by GHG emissions equivalents, or CO 2e. Because 
we cannot confirm how the TRSA CO 2 data is collected or if it is truly exclusive of other 
GHG equivalents – and because Cintas’ data is only available in emission equivalents – 
we were not able to provide comparisons against potentially non-like data  points.  INTENSITY  
VALUECINTAS INTENSITY 
METRIC TRSA INTENSITY 
METRICCOMPARISON 
INTENSITY METRIC
Energy Intensity Gigajoules per 
million dollars in 
revenue (GJ/$M)Btu per pound  
(Btu/pound)Megajoules per 
hundredweight  
(MJ/Cwt)
Water Intensity Megaliters of water 
consumed per 
million dollars in 
revenue (ML/$M)Gallons of water 
withdrawn per 
pound (gal/pound)Kilogallons of water 
withdrawn per 
hundredweight  
(kgal/Cwt)
ENERGY COMPARISONS TRSA DATA CINTAS DATA*
Btu/pound 2,422 n/a
Btu/Cwt 242,200 n/a
MMBtu 32,030 4,176,359
MJ 33,793,348 4,406,280,000
MJ/Cwt 255.53 198.13
Comparison (-22.46%)
WATER COMPARISONS TRSA DATA CINTAS DATA*
Gallons/pound 1.47 n/a
Poundage 13,900,000 2,223,972,800
Cwt 139,000 22,239,728
kgal Withdrawn 20,400 2,288,996
Gallons Withdrawn 20,400,000 2,288,996,000
kgal/pound 0.00147 0.00103
kgal/Cwt 0.1467 0.1029
Comparison (-29.86%)
69
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
COVID-19’S IMPACT ON WASH MIX AND METRICS PER  HUNDREDWEIGHT*
As discussed in the Environment section in “The Impact of COVID-19 on Intensity 
Measures,” our newly created emissions, energy, and water intensity metrics use 
millions of dollars in revenues as the unit of measure. For FY21, this new metric 
demonstrated reductions in intensity values over FY20 for all three metrics, as our 
revenues increased while our total usage continued to  decrease. 
A closer inspection of our full environmental data set, however, demonstrates the 
underlying effect that COVID-19’s impact on our wash mix had on our FY21 intensity 
values. While our new metric indexed on revenues produced reductions in intensity, 
the revenue gains outsized the increases in our intensity values caused by the unique 
changes to our wash mix required in FY21. The increased need for hygienically clean 
laundry in FY21 required more rinses and hotter water per pound during the wash cycle 
over FY20 – as explained on pg.   19.
POUNDAGE PROCESSED UNIT FY19 FY20 PCT. CHANGE FY21 PCT. CHANGE
Poundage* Cwt 24,783,151 24,298,215 -2.0% 22,239,278 -8.5%
ENERGY INTENSITY BY HUNDREDWEIGHT UNIT FY19 FY20 PCT. CHANGE FY21 PCT. CHANGE
Energy Used* GJ 5,073,938 4,762,763 -6.1% 4,406,280 -7.5%
Energy Intensity* GJ/Cwt 0.2047 0.1960 -4.3% 0.1981 1.1%
EMISSIONS INTENSITY BY HUNDREDWEIGHT UNIT FY19 FY20 PCT. CHANGE FY21 PCT. CHANGE
Emissions Released* MTCO 2e 544,555 506,315 -7.0% 466,628 -7.8%
Emissions Intensity* MTCO 2e/Cwt 0.2197-10.2084-1-5.2% 0.2098-10.7%
WATER INTENSITY BY HUNDREDWEIGHT UNIT FY19 FY20 PCT. CHANGE FY21 PCT. CHANGE
Water Consumed* ML 1,213 1,120 -7.7% 1,063 -5.1%
Water Intensity* ML/Cwt 0.4894-40.4610-4-5.8% 0.4780-43.7%
The effect of the wash mix changes becomes apparent when our intensity values are 
calculated as a factor of hundredweight (Cwt), a measure of 100 pounds of  laundry. 
While our gross energy use, emissions, and water use decreased from FY20 to FY21, 
the decrease in poundage was greater than the rates of energy, emissions, and water 
reduction, which resulted in increased intensity values for all three metrics when 
calculated per  hundredweight.
70
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
2021 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI)  INDEX
This GRI Index accompanies our 2021 ESG Report and references the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards as they were available on June 1, 2021. As we continue our 
organizational review and finalize our processes and strategies to move forward along our ESG journey, we expect to be able to disclose additional information. The data in this 
report relates to the period from June 1, 2020 to May 31, 2021, unless otherwise stated. For a detailed explanation of the indicators, visit the GRI website: globalreporting.org .
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S) AND/OR INFORMATION 
Organization Profile 
102-01 Name of organization FY21 Form 10-K (pg. 1)
102-02 Activities, brands, products and services About Cintas > This Is Cintas
102-03 Location of headquarters FY21 Form 10-K (pg. 1)
102-04 Location of operations About Cintas > This Is Cintas
FY21 Form 10-K
102-05 Ownership and legal form FY21 Form 10-K (pg. 1)
102-06 Markets served About Cintas > This Is Cintas
102-07 Scale of the organization About Cintas > This Is Cintas
102-08 Information on employees and other workers Social > Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
FY21 Form 10-K
102-09 Supply chain Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations
102-11 Precautionary Principal or approach Governance > ESG Governance > Governance Approach
102-12 External initiatives Social > Local Communities
Strategy 
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker About Cintas > A Message from Our CEO
102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities About Cintas > A Message from Our CEO
Ethics and Integrity 
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior About Cintas > The Spirit Is The Difference
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance > ESG Governance > Critical Concerns 
Governance 
102-18 Governance Structure Governance > ESG Governance > Governance Structure
102-19 Delegating authority Governance > ESG Governance > Governance Structure
Governance > ESG Governance > ESG Oversight
71
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S) AND/OR INFORMATION 
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 
and social topicsGovernance > ESG Governance > ESG Oversight
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social  topics About Cintas > Stakeholder Engagement
Governance > ESG Governance > ESG Oversight
Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations > Promoting Ethical Interactions  
> Reporting Concerns
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance > ESG Governance > Governance Structure
Governance > ESG Governance > FY22 Board of Directors
2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 6)
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Governance > ESG Governance > Governance Structure
2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 6)
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 8)
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 38)
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 
and strategyGovernance > ESG Governance > Governance Approach
2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 6)
Corporate Governance Guidelines
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Governance > ESG Governance > ESG Oversight
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Corporate Governance Guidelines  (pg. 5)
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social  impacts Governance > ESG Governance > ESG Oversight
2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 6-7)
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Governance > ESG Governance > ESG Oversight
2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 6)
102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics Governance > ESG Governance > ESG Oversight
2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 6-7)
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Governance > ESG Governance > ESG Oversight
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Governance > ESG Governance > Critical Concerns 
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Governance > ESG Governance > Critical Concerns 
102-35 Remuneration policies 2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 12)
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 12)
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 39)
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 32)
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 32)
2021 Proxy Statement (pg. 28)
72
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S) AND/OR INFORMATION 
Stakeholder Engagement 
102-40 List of stakeholder groups About Cintas > Stakeholder Engagement 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social > Labor Relations
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders About Cintas > Stakeholder Engagement 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About Cintas > Stakeholder Engagement 
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised About Cintas > Stakeholder Engagement 
Reporting Practice 
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements FY21 Form 10-K (pg. 3)
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About Cintas > About This Report
102-47 List of material topics About Cintas > Stakeholder Engagement 
102-48 Restatements of information About Cintas > About This Report
Appendix
102-49 Changes in reporting About Cintas > About This Report
102-50 Reporting period About Cintas > About This Report
102-51 Date of most recent report About Cintas > About This Report
102-52 Reporting cycle About Cintas > About This Report
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About Cintas > About This Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About Cintas > About This Report
Appendix
102-55 GRI content index Appendix > GRI Index
Economic Performance
201-01 Direct economic value generated and distributed FY21 Form 10-K (pg. 19)
201-02 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 
climate  changeEnvironment > Climate and Energy
201-03 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Social > Compensation
201-04 Financial assistance received from government Governance > Tax
Market Presence
202-01 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local 
minimum  wageBy the start of our FY22, we expect the entry-level minimum wage paid to U.S.-based 
hourly employee-partners will be a minimum of $15.70 per hour. That figure can be 
adjusted upward as necessary based on work experience, the geographic location of the 
employee-partner’s work facility, and/or other overriding local or state minimum wage 
requirements. This figure is higher than the current U.S. federal minimum wage for non-
tipped employees ($7.25 per hour), which went into effect in 2009.
73
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S) AND/OR INFORMATION 
Indirect Economic Impacts
203-02 Significant indirect economic impacts About Cintas > Our Continued COVID-19 Response
Environment
Anti-Corruption
205-01 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Governance > Ethics and Integrity > Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
205-02 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 
and proceduresGovernance > Ethics and Integrity > Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Anti-competitive Behavior
206-01 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly  practicesGovernance > Ethics and Integrity 
Tax
207-01 Approach to tax Governance > Tax
207-02 Tax governance, control, and risk management Governance > Tax
207-03 Stakeholder engagement and management concerns related to tax Governance > Tax
About Cintas > Stakeholder Engagement
Materials
301-03 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Environment > Waste and Materials Use > SPOTLIGHT: Materials Innovation
Energy
302-01 Energy consumption within the organization Environment > Climate and Energy > Reducing Energy Use
302-03 Energy intensity Environment > Climate and Energy > Reducing Energy Use
302-04 Reduction of energy consumption Environment > Climate and Energy > Reducing Energy Use
302-05 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services There were no significant changes in FY21. 
Water and Effluents
303-01 Interactions with water as a shared resource Environment > Water Stewardship
303-02 Management of water discharge-related impacts Environment > Water Stewardship
303-03 Water withdrawal Environment > Water Stewardship > Managing Wastewater
303-04 Water discharge Environment > Water Stewardship > Managing Wastewater
303-05 Water consumption Environment > Water Stewardship > Managing Wastewater
74
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S) AND/OR INFORMATION 
Emissions
305-01 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment > Climate and Energy > Lowering GHG Emissions
305-02 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment > Climate and Energy > Lowering GHG Emissions
305-03 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions As part of our new ambition to achieve Net Zero GHG emissions by 2050, we will explore 
opportunities to identify and reduce Scope 3 GHG emissions from our supply chain. 
305-04 GHG emissions intensity Environment > Climate and Energy > Lowering GHG Emissions
305-05 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment > Climate and Energy > Lowering GHG Emissions
Effluents and Waste
306-01 Water discharge by quality and destination Environment > Water Stewardship > Managing Wastewater
306-02 Waste by type and disposal method Environment > Waste and Materials Use > SPOTLIGHT: Zero Waste Program
Currently we record waste data from our distribution centers which recycle corrugated/
plastic waste. 
306-03 Significant spills Governance > Regulatory Compliance
306-05 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Environment > Water Stewardship > Managing Wastewater
Environmental Compliance
307-01 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Governance > Regulatory Compliance
Supplier Environmental Assessment
308-01 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations > Assessing and Monitoring New 
Global Supply Chain Suppliers
Employment
401-01 New employee hires and employee turnover Social > Talent Recruitment
Social > Talent Retention
401-02 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employeesSocial > Compensation 
Labor/Management Relations
402-01 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Social > Labor Relations > Minimum Notice
Occupational Health and Safety
403-01 Occupational health and safety management system Social > Safety and Health > Occupational Health and Safety Management System
403-02 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Social > Safety and Health > Occupational Health and Safety Management System
403-03 Occupational health services Social > Safety and Health > Occupational Health Initiatives
75
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S) AND/OR INFORMATION 
403-04 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 
occupational health and safetySocial > Safety and Health
403-05 Worker training on occupational health and safety Social > Safety and Health > Training and Development
403-06 Promotion of worker health Social > Compensation > Employee Benefits
Social > Safety and Health > Occupational Health Initiatives
403-07 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business relationshipsSocial > Safety and Health > Occupational Health and Safety Management System
403-08 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 
management  systemSocial > Safety and Health > Occupational Health and Safety Management System
403-09 Work-related injuries Social > Safety and Health > Sharing our Safety Knowledge
Training and Education
404-01 Average hours of training per year per employee Social > Training and Development
Social > Safety and Health
404-02 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance  programsSocial > Training and Development
Social > Performance and Advancement
404-03 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviewsAt Cintas, it is company policy that employee-partners take part in or receive an annual 
review, which is a component of the annual merit raise program. 
Non-discrimination
406-01 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Governance > Regulatory Compliance
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
407-01 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining may be at riskSocial > Labor Relations
Child Labor
408-01 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Social > Human Rights > Our Standards and Requirements
Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations > Human Rights Standards
Forced or Compulsory Labor
409-01 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory laborSocial > Human Rights > Our Standards and Requirements
Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations > Human Rights Standards
Rights of Indigenous Peoples
411- 01 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Governance > Regulatory Compliance
76
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBER(S), URL(S) AND/OR INFORMATION 
Human Rights Assessment
412-01 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 
impact  assessmentsSocial > Human Rights
Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations
412-02 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Social > Human Rights
Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations
412-03 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 
rights clauses or that underwent human rights screeningSocial > Human Rights
Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations
Local Communities
413-01 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 
and development  programsSocial > Local Communities
413-02 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on 
local communitiesSocial > Human Rights
Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations
Governance > Regulatory Compliance
Supplier Social Assessment
414-01 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations > Assessing and Monitoring New 
Global Supply Chain Suppliers
414-02 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Social > Global Supply Chain and Supplier Relations > Promoting Ethical Interactions
Public Policy
415-01 Political contributions Governance > Public Policy > Political Action
Customer Health and Safety
416-02 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts 
of products and  servicesGovernance > Regulatory Compliance
Marketing and Labeling
417-02 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 
information and  labelingGovernance > Regulatory Compliance
417-03 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Governance > Regulatory Compliance
Customer Privacy
418-01 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 
and losses of customer dataGovernance > Cybersecurity, Data, and Customer Privacy
Socioeconomic Compliance
419-01 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 
economic  areaGovernance > Regulatory Compliance
77
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
2021 SUSTAINABLE ACCOUNTING 
STANDARDS BOARD (SASB)  INDEX 
As we continue to make progress on our overall ESG reporting, this year we have referenced the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework while  developing  
our 2021 ESG Report. As a company with a unique and complex business model that falls under multiple industry categories, we have selected the Professional & Commercial 
Services SASB Standard to report against to support stakeholder decision-making and transparent reporting. For a detailed explanation of the framework, visit the SASB website: 
https://www.sasb.org/ .
TOPIC CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE DATA AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REFERENCE LOCATION
Data Security SV-PS-230a.1 Description of approach 
to identifying and 
addressing data 
security  risksDiscussion 
and Analysisn/a Cintas takes a multiple-tiered approach 
to system security. We utilize software 
programs to identify potential system 
security risks, and perform a regular 
analysis of the system updates. We 
regularly audit and review our processes. In 
addition, Cintas performs regular security 
maintenance, including issuing system 
patches, performing penetration testing, 
and monitoring data flow throughout the 
company, among other security efforts. 
Cintas’ employee-partners are also required 
to complete annual online training courses 
to help them identify potential digital 
security risks.Governance > Cybersecurity, Data, 
and Customer Privacy
FY21 Form 10-K > Item 1A. 
Risk Factors
SV-PS-230a.2 Description of policies 
and practices relating to 
collection, usage, and 
retention of customer 
informationDiscussion 
and Analysisn/a We adhere to best practices for data 
collection, usage, and retention of 
customer information, and undergo regular 
audits. We regularly implement additional 
layers of privacy controls and implement 
adjustments to our practices as necessary.Governance > Cybersecurity, Data, 
and Customer Privacy
FY21 Form 10-K > Item 1A. 
Risk Factors
Cintas General Privacy Policy 
Cintas California Privacy Act
SV-PS-230a.3 (1) Number of 
data breaches, (2) 
percentage involving 
customers' confidential 
business information 
(CBI) or personally 
identifiable information 
(PII), (3) number of 
customers  affectedQuantitative Number,  
Percentage (%) At the time of this report, we are not aware 
of any customers whose CBI or PII have 
been affected by cybersecurity issues 
encountered in FY21.Governance > Cybersecurity, Data, 
and Customer Privacy
FY21 Form 8-K (September 23, 2020) 
FY21 Form 10-K > Item 1A.  
Risk Factors
78
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
TOPIC CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE DATA AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REFERENCE LOCATION
Workforce 
Diversity & 
EngagementSV-PS-330a.1 Percentage of gender 
and racial/ethnic 
group representation 
for (1) executive 
management and (2) all 
other  employeesQuantitative Percentage (%) Total Workforce: Gender  
Female = 35.8% 
Male = 64.2% 
 
Total Workforce: Racial/Ethnic 
Representation  
White = 52.6% 
Latinx/Hispanic = 19.4% 
Black/African American = 13.3%  
Asian = 3.7% 
Two or More Races = 2.2% 
Native American/Alaskan = 0.4%  
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander = 0.3%  
Not Specified = 8.1%Social > Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion
SV-PS-330a.2 (1) Voluntary and 
(2) involuntary turnover 
rate for employeesQuantitative Rate (1) Voluntary turnover rate = 17% 
(2) Involuntary turnover rate = 4.4%Social > Talent Retention
SV-PS-330a.3 Employee engagement as 
a percentageQuantitative Percentage (%) We most recently conducted company-wide 
employee-partner engagement surveys in 
partnership with Willis Towers Watson in 
2019. Cintas’ employee-partner engagement 
score was 90%. Category-specific ratings 
underpinned our overall commitment 
to our people, including Empowerment, 
Sustainable Engagement, Safety, and 
Diversity & Inclusion. 
The company will conduct its next 
engagement survey in 2022, and we expect 
to administer engagement surveys every 
two years. Social > Employee-Partner 
Engagement
79
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
TOPIC CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE DATA AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REFERENCE LOCATION
Professional 
IntegritySV-PS-510a.1 Description of 
approach to ensuring 
professional  integrity Discussion 
and Analysisn/a n/a Governance > Ethics and Integrity
Code of Conduct and Business 
Ethics : Standards of Business 
Conduct (pg. 3)
Code of Conduct and Business 
Ethics : Conflicts of Interest (pg. 4)
Code of Conduct and Business 
Ethics : Accountability and Adherence 
to the Code (pg. 6)
SV-PS-510a.2 Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated 
with professional integrityQuantitative Reporting currency n/a FY21 Form 10-K (pg. 14)
ACTIVITY METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE DATA AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REFERENCE LOCATION
Number of employees by: (1) full-time and part-time, 
(2) temporary, and (3) contractQuantitative Number Full-time 40,099; Part-time and other: 285 Social > Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion
Employee hours worked, percentage billable Quantitative Hours,  
Percentage (%)n/a n/a
80
CINTAS 2021  ESG  REPORTENVIRONMENT
 GOVERNANCE
 APPENDIX
 SOCIAL
 ABOUT CINTAS
TO LEARN MORE, VISIT CINTAS.COM/ESG
OR SCAN THE QR CODE
800.CINTAS1 | CINTAS.COM
UNIFORMS & APPAREL | FACILITY SERVICES | 
FIRST AID & SAFETY | FIRE PROTECTION
