A
2018
Global  
Citizenship  
Report
AppendicesCitizenship 
at Citi
How We Do 
BusinessSolutions  
for Impact1
“We consistently assess Citi’s role in response  
to three questions: What are we doing to  
help create inclusive and resilient communities?  
How can we use our voice to help drive 
dialogue toward solutions? Is Citi walking the 
talk — are we doing the right things within  
our own firm? The short answer to all three  
of these questions continues to be the same:  
that we can and should do more.”
— Michael L. Corbat, CEOWhat’s Inside
Citizenship at Citi
Solutions for Impactpg. 5  Letter from Our CEO
pg. 7  Citi at a Glance
pg. 9  Citizenship Approach
pg. 23   Inclusive and  
Resilient 
Communities
pg. 45   Environmental 
Finance2
How We Do Business
AppendicesABOUT THIS REPORT 
This report illustrates how we bring our mission to life through our business; it 
covers our corporate citizenship activities and performance for 2018. Our report -
ing focuses on the issues we determined to be of greatest importance through a 
materiality assessment  completed in 2017. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Standards: Core option. We also used the United Nations (UN) Global 
Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights frame -
works to guide our reporting. (See related indexes .) 
We have embedded the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into relevant 
sections of the report. Additionally, we include an index  that indicates where 
report content is specifically aligned to the recommendations of the G20 Financial 
Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures . Finally, this 
report supplements information published in our 2018 Annual Report . 
All reporting and performance data are limited to information for the owned and 
operated facilities of Citigroup Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. 
Additional information about Citi can be found on our website . For more informa -
tion on Citi’s citizenship initiatives, please visit citi.com/citizenship  or contact:
Global Public Affairs  
Citigroup Inc.  
388 Greenwich Street  
New York, NY 10013  
citizenship@citi.compg. 59   Environmental and Social  
Risk Management
pg. 67  Human Rights
pg. 75  Operations and Supply Chain
pg. 91  Digital Innovation
pg. 101  Talent and Diversity
pg. 121  Ethics and Culture
pg. 133   Sustainable Progress  
Strategy Scorecard
pg. 135  GRI Content Index
pg. 151   Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures Index
 pg. 153  United Nations Global 
Compact Index
pg. 155  United Nations Guiding 
Principles Reporting 
Framework Index
pg. 160  Assurance3
Citizenship
at Citi
IN THIS SECTION
pg. 5 Letter from Our CEO
pg. 7 Citi at a Glance
pg. 9 Citizenship Approach4FPO photo
5
CITIZENSHIP  
AT CITI
•  
Letter from  
Our CEO
Citi at a Glance
Citizenship 
Approach
Letter from Our CEO
One of the questions I’m most frequently asked is: 
“What keeps you up at night?” 
I have a short list of items I put into this category, 
some specific to Citi and others that extend beyond 
our firm. The widening income gap in the U.S. and 
globally has ranked high on that list for many years, 
and has risen even higher in recent years as we see 
new consequences of this fundamental division play 
out all around us.  One profound implication of the widening income 
divide is evident in our polarized politics. In so many 
places around the world, political discourse — though 
never all that civil in tone — has devolved into little 
more than a series of “I’m right and you’re wrong” 
shouting matches. Compromise is seen as a sign 
of weakness, or worse, disloyalty. Not surprisingly, 
talking over and past each other hasn’t led to much 
effective action being taken to address the root 
challenges we face as a society. 
6I worry greatly about this dynamic, and believe there 
is an opportunity for Citi and others in the private 
sector to lead a more constructive dialogue and work 
toward solutions. With that in mind, we consistently 
assess Citi’s role in response to three questions: 
• What are we doing to help create inclusive and 
resilient communities?
• How can we use our voice to help drive dialogue 
toward solutions?
• Is Citi walking the talk — are we doing the right 
things within our own firm?
The short answer to all three of these questions 
continues to be the same: that we can and should 
do more. Our mission of enabling growth and 
economic progress will never be complete, but 
year after year, my colleagues and our firm keep 
pushing ourselves in the right direction. Internally, 
we have taken steps to mirror many of the changes 
we need to make as a society.
In this report, you will find no shortage of big chal -
lenges — local, national, regional and global —  
described in daunting detail. You will also find 
specific examples of the creative solutions my Citi 
colleagues are continuously conceiving with our 
clients and communities to address them. Those 
challenges range from climate change, to the urgent 
need for exponentially more infrastructure invest -
ment globally, to an affordable housing crisis in the 
U.S. that has widened even further a gap that dispro -
portionately affects low-income people and families 
and communities of color. That gap is a primary 
contributor to the economic inequality I cited above 
that pervades our society and our politics.
At Citi, we have learned that there are times when 
we need to take a stand when our values and mission 
are on the line. We were the first bank to announce a 
Commercial Firearms Policy in the U.S. that promotes 
responsible business practices at the point of sale. We were the first firm to disclose our unadjusted pay 
gaps between women and men globally, and between 
minorities and non-minorities in the U.S. 
We have also taken the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals as guideposts and inspirations to continue to do 
more — as much as we can. We believe we have a role 
to play across all 17 goals, but can drive the greatest 
impact on seven: Gender Equality; Affordable and 
Clean Energy; Decent Work and Economic Growth; 
Industry Innovation and Infrastructure; Sustainable 
Cities and Communities; Climate Action and last but 
not least, Partnerships for the Goals.
The last goal, #17 related to partnerships, is at the 
heart of everything we do. We know no one person, 
company, nation, or community can do enough 
alone. That’s why, when we bring others to the table 
to work with us and start a dialogue, we start to 
achieve an important goal of our own: leadership.
Michael L. Corbat, CEOAt Citi, we have 
learned that there are 
times when we need  
to take a stand when 
our values and mission 
are on the line. 
7
CITIZENSHIP  
AT CITI
Letter from  
Our CEO
• 
Citi at a Glance
Citizenship 
Approach
Citi at a Glance
Global Consumer  
BankingInstitutional  
Clients GroupDigital and mobile at the core of a 
simpler, better client experience
Growing  Commercial Bank that serves 
midsized clients with cross-border needs Supporting clients in more than  
160 countries and jurisdictions
More than 200 years  
of experienceDiverse workforce of 204,000 to 
serve our customers and clientsResponsibly provide  
financial servicesServe as a  
trusted partnerCreate  
economic value
Facilitates ~$4 trillion of transaction 
flows dailyLargest  proprietary global network  
with a client base of 13,000  
and a presence in 98 countries Serving over 110 million customers
Serves more than 90%  of global 
Fortune 500 companiesA digital leader in credit cards, retail 
banking and wealth management across  
19 markets
Citizenship Approach
Executing a business 
model that adds 
value to society!
?Taking a stand on 
issues that matter 
and driving solutions
Maintaining a focus on ethical 
decision-making and responsible 
business practicesCatalyzing innovation through 
strategic philanthropy  
and employee engagementReporting transparently 
and learning through 
dialogue
8
Citi’s mission is to serve as a trusted partner to our 
clients by responsibly providing financial services 
that enable growth and economic progress. Our core 
activities are safeguarding assets, lending money, 
making payments and accessing the capital markets 
on behalf of our clients. We have 200 years of expe -
rience helping our clients meet the world’s toughest 
challenges and embrace its greatest opportunities. 
We are Citi, the global bank — an institution connect -
ing millions of people across hundreds of countries 
and cities. 
We protect people’s savings and help them make the 
purchases — from everyday transactions to buying 
a home — that improve the quality of their lives. We 
advise people on how to invest for future needs, 
such as their children’s education and their own 
retirement, and help them buy securities such as 
stocks and bonds. 
We work with companies to optimize their daily oper -
ations, whether they need working capital, to make 
payroll or to export their goods overseas. By lending 
to companies large and small, we help them grow, 
creating jobs and real economic value at home and in communities around the world. We provide financing 
and support to governments at all levels, so they can 
build sustainable infrastructure, such as housing, 
transportation, schools and other vital public works. 
These capabilities create an obligation to act responsi -
bly, do everything possible to create the best outcomes, 
and prudently manage risk. If we fall short, we will take 
decisive action and learn from our experience. 
We strive to earn and maintain the public’s trust by 
constantly adhering to the highest ethical standards. 
We ask our colleagues to ensure that their decisions 
pass three tests: they are in our clients’ interests, 
create economic value, and are always systemically 
responsible. When we do these things well, we make 
a positive financial and social impact in the commu -
nities we serve and show what a global bank can do. Citi’s Value Proposition
A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress
What You Can Expect from Us and What We Expect from Ourselves9
CITIZENSHIP  
AT CITI
Letter from  
Our CEO
Citi at a Glance
•  
Citizenship 
ApproachCitizenship Approach
Through our corporate citizenship efforts, we aim to be engaged 
community problem solvers working to address some of society’s 
greatest challenges, an imperative stated in our mission and an 
idea that shapes our decisions every day. In this report, we share 
many individual stories of progress — how as a bank, employer and 
philanthropist, Citi catalyzes sustainable growth — with a focus not 
on short-term fixes but on broader systemic changes. 
We align many of these efforts with the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Climate 
Agreement, and our commitment to engagement, 
innovation and market-based solutions is unwavering. 
When we fall short, we learn from the experience; and 
when we can bring others to the table, we view this 
as leadership. On the following pages, we outline how 
we put this approach into action.
Executing a Business Model  
That Adds Value to Society
Citi’s opportunity to scale solutions and increase 
impact is driven by the products and services we 
bring to market. Our core businesses, and the finan -
cial innovation that is inspired by our drive to serve 
clients and solve society’s greatest challenges, 
are fundamental to our mission to enable growth 
and progress. Our relationships with our clients 
are instrumental, but when we can, we take steps 
on our own. From investing directly in community 
land trusts across the U.S. to preserve housing 
affordability for communities that need it, to issuing 
our first green bond in early 2019, we continue to 
challenge ourselves in how we can enable growth 
and progress. 
Despite our progress to date, we know that we have a 
great deal more work to do, which we note through -
out this report as part of our management of our 
material citizenship issues. Maintaining a Focus on 
Ethical Decision-Making and 
Responsible Business Practices
Ethical business practices are central to the success 
of the entire financial services sector. We place 
significant emphasis on understanding, improving 
and fully integrating ethical and responsible prac -
tices in everything we do. 
The Ethics and Culture section provides more detail 
on how we do this — both our successes and where 
we see need for continued attention and improve -
ment. This will continue to be the foundation of all 
our citizenship efforts at Citi. 
Taking a Stand on Issues That 
Matter and Driving Solutions
Companies are increasingly expected to leverage 
their corporate voices to benefit society. Like many 
of our corporate peers, we have chosen to take 
a stand on issues that matter to our employees, 
clients, investors and communities. For example, 
we have issued statements indicating our continued 
commitment to the Paris Agreement, our support of 
immigrants from around the world in the workforce 
and in our communities, the importance of pay 
equity, and our commitment to tolerance and racial 
and ethnic inclusion. Speaking out, however, is often 
just the first step. Where we can, we actively work to 
!
?10
be part of the solutions to very complex and pressing 
issues such as global warming and social inequality. 
We also were the first financial institution to enact a 
U.S. Commercial Firearms Policy, which is centered 
around current firearms sales best practices. 
Through our engagement efforts  with a wide range 
of stakeholders, as well as through our business-led 
solutions and our philanthropic activities, we aim to 
make a positive and meaningful contribution to the 
problems at hand. 
Reporting Transparently and 
Learning Through Dialogue
To successfully meet the expectations of our stake -
holders, especially as the scope and pace of disclo -
sure evolves, we need to both communicate what we 
are doing and engage in dialogue to understand what 
more can be done. We are committed to improving 
not only our reporting efforts but also the way in 
which we engage stakeholders in all of our activities. 
By doing so, we increase our involvement in creating 
solutions to some of the world’s most complex and 
pressing challenges. 
This report contains a snapshot of our efforts to 
increase transparency and knowledge building, and 
we supplement our annual reporting with articles, 
reports, surveys, convenings and other relevant 
perspectives throughout the year. Catalyzing Innovation Through 
Strategic Philanthropy  
and Employee Engagement
Citi and the Citi Foundation support a variety of 
philanthropic causes and, wherever possible, develop 
partnerships with community organizations that 
allow us to catalyze change through innovative 
and efficient solutions. In 2018, the Citi Foundation  
provided $78 million in grants that increase financial 
inclusion, promote job opportunities for youth and 
reimagine approaches to building economically 
vibrant cities. Through Citi businesses around the 
world, Citi provided $76 million in charitable giving 
to causes that align with our mission of enabling 
growth and progress. 
We increase our impact in the community by encour -
aging our colleagues to lend their time and talent 
toward volunteer activities that complement our 
giving. Our signature effort, Global Community Day, 
engaged more than 100,000 volunteers, including 
Citi colleagues, alumni, clients, friends and families, 
in events across 90 countries. 
We highlight examples of Citi and Citi Foundation 
philanthropy throughout this report and provide more 
detail on how we engage our employees in volunteer 
activities in the Talent and Diversity section . < Recognition for Our Corporate Citizenship Efforts
“Through its internal policies, its public statements 
on key global issues and the use of its capital and 
philanthropic dollars to shore up the financial industry 
and local economies in which it operates, Citi has 
consistently demonstrated its commitment to work 
alongside communities and support their growth.” 
— Euromoney  magazineIn 2018, Citi was named the World’s Best Bank for Corporate Responsibility 
by Euromoney  and the Most Innovative Investment Bank for Corporate Social 
Responsibility by The Banker . These awards are great recognition for our 
ongoing efforts to support the communities in which we live and work.  
11
CITIZENSHIP  
AT CITI
Letter from  
Our CEO
Citi at a Glance
•  
Citizenship 
ApproachCiti’s Support for 
Global Climate-Related 
Disclosures
Climate change is one of the most critical issues 
of our time. As detailed in the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) special report 
Global Warming of 1.5°C , the impacts and costs of 
climate change are already affecting many industries 
and regions globally and are expected to further 
increase as the world continues to warm. These dire 
findings were echoed in the Fourth National Climate 
Assessment , published by the U.S. Global Change 
Research Program. The assessment found that no 
region of the U.S. will be spared from the costly 
impacts of climate change, which, if we remain on our 
current warming trajectory, could potentially cost 
the U.S. economy upward of $500 billion per year 
by the end of the century in crop damage, lost labor 
and productivity, disruptions to trade and extreme 
weather damages, while also threatening human 
health and the well-being of coastal communities. 
In recognition of the importance of understanding the 
risks and opportunities associated with climate change and managing the potential impacts on the global 
economy and financial system, the G20 Financial 
Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) released recommenda -
tions for voluntary climate disclosures in June 2017. 
Citi was an early supporter of the TCFD recommen -
dations, and our CEO signed a statement of support 
for them along with leaders from more than 100 
other companies. 
Following the launch of the TCFD recommendations, 
Citi collaborated with 15 other leading banks and the 
UN Environment Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) on a 
banking-sector pilot project to implement the recom -
mendations related to climate scenario analysis, 
including a 2°C or lower scenario. Scenario analysis is 
a way to test the potential business impacts of future 
events, such as varying degrees of global warming, 
based on assumptions regarding policies, technol -
ogies, demand and other macroeconomic factors. 
Considering a variety of climate scenarios allows 
companies to better assess and plan for the full 
range of potential risks and opportunities associated 
with the anticipated impacts of a changing climate.
The pilot project focused on the two main categories 
of climate-related risks and opportunities: risks asso -
ciated with the transition to a low-carbon economy 
(referred to as “transition risks”), such as policy and 
technology changes that drive shifts in demand and 
prices; and physical risks that companies face due to 
changes in the climate, such as chronic changes in 
precipitation and temperatures, rising sea levels and 
more frequent and severe extreme weather events.
The pilot group leveraged the expertise of Oliver 
Wyman, a global management consultancy, as well as 
the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research 
(PIK) and the International Institute for Applied 
Systems Analysis, to develop a methodology and tool 
to assess potential transition risks and opportunities 
and obtain climate scenario data. We considered 
1.5°C and 2°C scenarios, which are aligned with 
the ambitions of the Paris Agreement and in which 
transition risks are expected to be prevalent. 
Participants in the UNEP FI pilot published their work 
on assessing transition risks and opportunities in a 
report titled Extending Our Horizons in April 2018. 
UNEP FI released a second report, Navigating a New 
Climate , which focuses on assessing physical climate 
risks and opportunities, in July 2018. Developed in 
12Summary of Citi’s TCFD Banking-Sector Pilot Results
Transition Risk
Scenario*Key Assumptions Impacts — 2030 to 2040**
2°C Carbon Price:  
2030: $68  
2040: $111
• Use of fossil fuels continues throughout 
the century but at a declining rate as 
they are replaced by renewables
• Carbon capture and storage is commer -
cial after 2030
• Electricity prices increase as growing 
electric vehicle adoption and electrifica -
tion of transport increases demand 
• In the short term, oil and gas serve as 
substitutes as the world transitions from 
coal, and oil remains an important trans -
port fuel as transport demand growsUtilities (U.S.)
• Regulated low-carbon utilities: no change to 1 notch 
downgrade
• Regulated heavy-carbon utilities: 1–2 notch downgrade
• Unregulated low-carbon utilities: 1–2 notch downgrade
• Unregulated heavy-carbon utilities: 2–3 notch downgrade
Oil & Gas Exploration & Production  
(U.S. and Canada)
• Offshore: no change
• Shale and non-conventional: no change
• Conventional: no change
1.5°C Same Assumptions, but Higher  
Carbon Price:  
2030: $117  
2040: $190 Oil & Gas Exploration & Production  
(U.S. and Canada)
• Offshore: 1–2 notch downgrade
• Shale and non-conventional: 1–2 notch downgrade
• Conventional: no change
 
Physical Risk
Scenario Impacts — 2040
2°C Utilities
• Production declines 9.5–15.1% with an average decline of 11% by 2040, driven primarily by  
incremental (chronic) climate change
• Half of companies have 1 notch downgrade due to productivity decline
4°C Utilities
• Production declines 10.7–15.1% with an average decline of 13.2% by 2040, driven primarily by  
incremental (chronic) climate change
• Half of companies have 1 notch downgrade due to productivity decline
 * Citi used the assumptions and outputs of the “REMIND CD-LINKS” scenarios developed by PIK.
 ** Ratings refer to Citi’s internal credit ratings.
consultation with Acclimatise, a UK-based advisory 
and analytics company specializing in climate change 
adaptation and risk management, the physical risk 
methodology considers how the physical impacts 
from incremental climate change and extreme 
weather events may affect key credit risk metrics. 
Because physical climate risks increase as global 
temperatures rise, the 2°C scenario and a business-
as-usual scenario of 4°C were used to analyze the 
potential physical risks.In addition to contributing to both UNEP FI reports, 
Citi piloted the methodologies and tools developed 
in the pilot project on parts of our lending portfo -
lios where climate risks are expected to be most 
material. We tested the transition risk methodology 
on our U.S. utilities and U.S. and Canada oil and 
gas exploration and production portfolios using the 
assumptions and outputs of the “REMIND CD-LINKS” 
scenarios developed by PIK. We piloted the physical 
risk methodology on our U.S. utilities portfolio 13
CITIZENSHIP  
AT CITI
Letter from  
Our CEO
Citi at a Glance
•  
Citizenship 
Approachusing data from scientific studies of climate and 
potential climate impacts under a 2°C scenario that 
corresponded to IPCC Representative Concentration 
Pathway (RCP) 2.6 and a 4°C scenario corresponding 
to IPCC RCP 8.5. Following our climate scenario 
analyses, we published the results in our first TCFD 
report, Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future .
The pilot provided us with valuable experience 
and a better understanding of how climate change 
can potentially impact key portfolios while raising 
a number of difficult challenges associated with 
conducting climate scenario analysis. We highlighted 
our findings and the challenges we faced, along with 
ideas for how the analysis can be improved, in our 
TCFD report. 
Overall, our pilot scenario analyses found that the 
climate risks to our clients may vary depending on 
their cost structure and ability to pass on costs to 
their customers. The risks to Citi associated with 
our lending portfolios, however, will be limited and 
manageable in 2030 and 2040, given the relatively 
short tenor of our loans (3–5 years) and our ability 
to restructure loans when they come due, compared 
with the longer time frame of climate impacts. But 
based on the scenarios and scenario assumptions 
we used, expected impacts will likely become more 
severe over time as carbon prices increase and fossil 
fuel use decreases under climate transition scenarios 
and as physical risks intensify due to increased emis -
sions and warming over the century. The IPCC report 
warned that the world is warming much faster than 
previously expected, making it ever more imperative 
to take action today, while there is still time to limit the 
warming trend and counter its effects. 
Addressing global warming and managing climate 
risks is both smart and beneficial for the economy. 
Not only will it prevent unnecessary harm in the 
future, it also creates profitable opportunities for 
businesses in numerous sectors. In this Global 
Citizenship Report, we outline how we manage 
climate-related opportunities  and mitigate climate 
risk through our business. We also address our 
efforts to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
to minimize our environmental impacts and enhance 
the resilience of our operations . These activities are 
built upon strong governance  for climate change, 
with oversight from both the Board and senior 
management. Our participation in the UNEP FI pilot and our 
resulting TCFD report are an important part of 
Citi’s commitment to transparency and to strategic 
management of our risks and opportunities. We also 
continue to highlight relevant climate disclosures 
in this report and include an index  where related 
content can be found throughout the report. The 
pilot project is just the beginning of our journey 
to incorporate climate analysis into our strategy 
and reporting and to deepen our understanding 
of climate-related risks and opportunities. We are 
looking to build upon the efforts of our first climate 
scenario analysis and climate disclosure report 
and are evaluating different approaches to further 
assess how global warming will affect our business. 
We are engaging a range of stakeholders, including 
investors, to determine the best path forward as we 
further implement the TCFD recommendations.
In addition to our TCFD efforts for our lending port -
folio, we are also working to implement the TCFD 
recommendations at Afore Citibanamex, Mexico’s 
second-largest pension fund, which manages retire -
ment assets for more than 11 million employees 
in Mexico. We take the financial well-being of our 
clients very seriously and, as responsible fiduciaries 
that invest for the long term, incorporating environ -
mental, social and governance (ESG) factors into our 
investment process is fundamental. Climate risks are 
not yet well understood, but are already impacting 
companies in many sectors and even the fiscal health 
of governments. These risks can also potentially 
threaten future returns, which our clients rely on 
for a secure financial future. To deepen our under -
standing of climate risks, we have joined the UNEP FI 
Investor Pilot Project to implement the TCFD recom -
mendations and are in the process of analyzing how 
transition and physical risks may impact the compa -
nies and investments in our investment portfolio. To 
encourage the transition to a low-carbon economy, 
we plan to engage portfolio companies about climate 
action and will also assess other actions we can take 
to improve the resiliency of our portfolio.
The TCFD Index highlights where related 
content can be found throughout this report.14Citi and the Sustainable 
Development Goals
Given our global footprint and our role in financing 
economies around the world, Citi has an important 
role to play in helping to finance the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) and the estimated $5 tril -
lion to $7 trillion annual global development need.1 
The SDGs are a core part of the UN’s 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
Since 2016, Citi has been reporting on how our 
activities relate to the SDGs, including in our annual 
Global Citizenship Report and in a standalone report   
published in 2017. Throughout this 2018 Global 
Citizenship Report, we have made an effort to indicate  where information is relevant to action on the 
SDGs. While our work and the content of this report 
cover many SDGs, we have identified seven goals on 
which we can have the greatest impact. 
Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS), our 
premiere thought leadership product designed to help 
navigate the economy’s most demanding challenges, 
uses the SDGs among other global reference points 
to inform strategic insight on topics such as single-
use plastics and the transition to more responsible 
production and consumption of plastics and other 
packaging materials. We also released a report  in 
2018 that aimed to simplify the SDGs and identify 
the incremental financial costs and opportunities of 
achieving the individual goals and the human benefit 
that might be gained by solving them.
These 17 interrelated  
goals represent an ambitious 
agenda to achieve a sustainable 
future by 2030. Citi has a role 
to play in all 17, yet our business 
most directly impacts the seven 
highlighted here.Gender Equality  
PAGES  38 | 85 | 96 | 103
Affordable and  
Clean Energy 
PAGE  47 
Decent Work  and  
Economic Growth  
PAGES  38 | 41 | 70 | 83 | 96
Industry, Innovation  
and Infrastructure  
PAGES  27 | 30 | 38 | 96
Sustainable Cities  
and Communities 
PAGES  30 | 32 | 47
Climate Action 
PAGE  47
Partnerships  
for the Goals 
PAGE  245
7
8
9
11
13
17
1 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, World Investment Report 2014: Investing in the SDGs — An Action Plan (April 2014), page xi,  
http://unctad.org/en/PublicationsLibrary/wir2014_en.pdf . 15
CITIZENSHIP  
AT CITI
Letter from  
Our CEO
Citi at a Glance
•  
Citizenship 
ApproachCitizenship Governance 
at Citi
Good governance is a fundamental principle at Citi, 
and we work to ensure that we are at the leading 
edge of best practices. We strive to maintain the 
highest standards of ethical conduct: Reporting 
results with accuracy and transparency and main -
taining full compliance with the laws, rules and 
regulations that govern Citi’s businesses. 
Corporate Governance
Our governance structures, policies and processes 
serve employee, client and community needs and 
promote a culture of accountability and ethical conduct 
across our firm. Information about Citi’s corporate 
governance is publicly available on our website . 
Our Board of Directors aims to have at least 
two-thirds of its members as independent directors. 
Currently, 87 percent of the Board is independent. Additionally, the Chair of the Board is a non-  
executive independent director. The standing 
committees of our Board of Directors are: 
• Audit 
• Ethics and Culture 
• Executive 
• Nomination, Governance 
and Public Affairs • Operations and 
Technology 
• Personnel and 
Compensation 
• Risk Management
All Board committees play a role in providing 
oversight of our efforts to ensure responsible 
business practices. For example, the Personnel and 
Compensation Committee reviews all compensation 
programs, including incentive compensation, so 
that they do not, among other things, encourage 
imprudent risk taking. The Nomination, Governance 
and Public Affairs Committee oversees Citi’s global 
citizenship and sustainability activities and perfor -
mance. Our Ethics and Culture Committee reflects 
our commitment to promote a strong culture of 
ethical conduct. To review the responsibilities of 
each of the committees of our Board of Directors, 
see our Board charters . 
Material Citizenship Issues AddressedNomination,  
Governance 
and Public 
Affairs  
Committee
Addressing 
Climate 
Change Risk/
OpportunityTalent 
Attraction/
DevelopmentHuman RightsDiversity/
Equal 
OpportunityEthicsFor additional 
material 
issues, see 
page 17Environmental and  
Social Advisory CouncilCiti Board of Directors Committees
Audit  
CommitteeEthics and  
Culture 
CommitteeExecutive  
CommitteeOperations  
and  
Technology  
CommitteePersonnel  
and  
Compensation  
CommitteeRisk 
Management  
Committee
Corporate Citizenship  
and SustainabilityCitizenship Governance16Citizenship and Sustainability Governance
As noted previously, the Nomination, Governance 
and Public Affairs Committee of the Board of 
Directors oversees our citizenship activities. This 
committee’s responsibilities include reviewing our 
policies and programs for sustainability, climate 
change, human rights and other material citizenship 
issues, as well as advising on engagement with 
external stakeholders. For more information on the 
roles and responsibilities of the committee, down -
load the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs 
Committee charter . 
At the senior executive level, corporate citizenship 
at Citi is led by the Head of Corporate Citizenship 
and President of the Citi Foundation, who provides 
progress reports to the Nomination, Governance and 
Public Affairs Committee at least annually on issues, 
trends and results pertaining to some of the compa -
ny’s most important citizenship and sustainability 
issues. She also collaborates with a range of senior 
leaders to enable the development and implementa -
tion of goals and programs that generate a positive 
impact on society. 
Citi’s Corporate Sustainability team, which reports to 
the Head of Corporate Citizenship, works in partner -
ship with our businesses to lead and implement our 
ambitious Sustainable Progress Strategy globally, as 
well as our efforts to ensure that the human rights 
of our employees, suppliers and those affected by the  
projects we finance are respected. Citi has an 
Environmental and Social Advisory Council that 
provides guidance on environmental and social 
issues related to global business activities, including 
advising on the Sustainable Progress Strategy. 
The council is chaired by senior executives in our 
Institutional Clients Group and includes executives from Banking, Risk, Public Affairs, Operations, 
Corporate Sustainability, and Environmental and 
Social Risk Management (ESRM). Council meetings 
are held approximately three times annually. Citi’s 
ESRM Policy is managed by the ESRM team, which 
works closely with ESRM specialists in the busi -
ness and with regional ESRM Champions. Within 
Operations and Technology, our Corporate Realty 
Services and Enterprise Supply Chain teams each 
have specialized sustainability groups that manage 
our environmental footprint and green building 
goals and oversee supply chain sustainability. These 
specialized teams sit within their respective business 
units, ensuring ownership of sustainability goals 
throughout the company.
Ethics and Business Practices
Ethics and responsible business practices are among 
the most material citizenship issues for Citi and our 
stakeholders. The Ethics and Culture Committee of 
the Board oversees management's efforts to foster 
a culture of ethics within the company and receives 
regular reports from senior management on the 
progress of those efforts. To learn more about the 
responsibilities of the committee, download the Ethics 
and Culture Committee charter . You can also learn 
more about efforts to encourage a culture of ethics in 
the Ethics and Culture section of this report. 
Among its responsibilities, the Risk Management 
Committee reviews Citi’s risk appetite framework, 
including reputational risk appetite, and reviews and 
approves key risk policies, including those focused on 
environmental and social risk. To learn more about 
the responsibilities of this committee, download the 
Risk Management Committee charter . 17
CITIZENSHIP  
AT CITI
Letter from  
Our CEO
Citi at a Glance
•  
Citizenship 
ApproachOur Material Issues:  
Citi in a Global Context
We conduct periodic and comprehensive materi -
ality assessments to identify our most relevant 
(or “material”) reporting topics from a corporate 
citizenship perspective — which is a broader standard 
than those used in our financial disclosures. These 
citizenship topics, which we refer to as “material 
issues” throughout this report, help inform which 
issues we communicate here, which issues we 
consider raising to our Board, and how we establish 
our citizenship priorities. Our most recent materi -
ality assessment was completed in late 2017. That 
assessment included feedback through an online quantitative survey of more than 200 global external 
stakeholders and over 500 Citi managing directors. 
It also included a review of the environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) attributes used by rating and 
ranking agencies and a focus on how these issues 
will play out between now and 2030. 
A key insight underscored by our materiality process 
is the interconnectedness among material issues, 
such as acting in our clients’ best interests, systemic 
risk, climate change and talent attraction and 
development. Our core business must address these 
issues holistically, and our citizenship approach must 
enable the business to address the risks and oppor -
tunities presented by the material issues. 
 GRI 102-43, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERSCiti’s Material Issues
INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESSResponsible  
Supply Chain/
OperationsData  
Security/  
Privacy
Environmental 
Footprint
Preparing  
Youth for  
the Future  
EconomyFinancial  
Inclusion/  
Access
Strategic  
PhilanthropyPartnerships  
with Civil Society/ 
Government
Regulatory  
ReformHealth/  
Well-Being of 
EmployeesProducts/
Services with 
Environmental/
Social BenefitAddressing  
Climate Change  
Risk/Opportunity
Corporate 
Governance
Talent  
Attraction/
DevelopmentHuman  
RightsTransparency
Employee  
Risk Behavior
Diversity/  
Equal  
OpportunityInnovation/
DigitizationSystemic  
RiskEthics
Customer 
SatisfactionActing in  
Clients’  
Best Interest18Stakeholder  
Engagement at Citi
One of the most important ways we fulfill our 
mission to be a trusted partner to our clients is by 
engaging with a wide array of stakeholders to gain 
their input and insights and share our expertise and 
perspectives. Our 2017 materiality assessment was 
an important step in identifying and addressing the 
most relevant issues, but we undertake many more 
forms of stakeholder engagement throughout the 
year across our business. 
Annually, we review our relationships to identify any 
gaps and to consider potential new partners that would 
be valuable stakeholders for the company and inform our citizenship approach. This analysis happens across 
various functions; the Citizenship and Sustainability 
teams, Public Affairs, Government Affairs, Investor 
Relations, Human Resources, Corporate Governance 
and other teams across the business review their 
stakeholder partnerships regularly, as does the Citi 
Foundation. For example, the Citizenship team works 
closely with Diversity, Recruiting and other units to 
look at partnerships across functions that relate to 
Citi’s diversity priorities. 
For more information on our recent stakeholder 
engagement efforts, please see the table on the 
next page. 
 GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 
Citi Affinity group senior executive co-leads hosting a town hall.19
CITIZENSHIP  
AT CITI
Letter from  
Our CEO
Citi at a Glance
•  
Citizenship 
ApproachStakeholder Group How We Engage Examples from 2018
Investors • Group calls and meetings (quar -
terly earnings calls, investor 
conferences and Citi-hosted group 
meetings)
• One-on-one meetings to discuss 
financial performance and ESG 
issues
• Communications through 
Investor Relations and Corporate 
Governance teams• Completed dialogue sessions focused on ESG, 
including sustainability and human capital manage -
ment, with institutional investors representing over 
31 percent of Citi's outstanding common stock
• Citi senior executives presented at a number of 
industry conferences for investors and peers 
• Members of the Board and senior management 
conducted meetings and calls with investors for 
input on a variety of governance and compensa -
tion matters 
Government  
and Regulators• In-person meetings, conference 
calls, lobbying activities, industry 
associations, public policy forums, 
press conferences, conferences 
and convenings
• Membership on government 
councils and committees• Citi’s CEO participated in 56 meetings with regula -
tors, central bankers and government officials from 
the U.S. and other countries, in addition to regular 
bank supervisory meetings 
• Participated on the Consumer Financial Protection 
Bureau’s Advisory Board 
• Hosted forums with mayors around the world to 
discuss development, inclusion and climate change 
issues 
• Participated in the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York’s conference exploring progress and chal -
lenges in reforming culture and behavior in the 
financial services industry 
Suppliers • In-person meetings, calls, confer -
ences and workshops
• Corporate Responsibility 
Questionnaire to help assess 
management of ESG issues• Co-hosted events with NGOs and industry orga -
nizations and participated on panels to provide 
educational content to diverse suppliers 
• Hosted multiple events to create opportunities 
to engage with diverse suppliers, including the 
Supplier Expo, the Chief Procurement Officer 
Summit and the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council's Corporate Plus Summit  
Community Leaders 
and Nongovernmental 
Organizations (NGOs)• In-person meetings, calls, confer -
ence calls, emails, social media 
and events
• Specialized websites, including 
for the Citi Foundation and Citi 
Community Development
• Collaboration with NGOs on issues 
relevant to their organizations and 
our business• Served on the Board of the UN Global Compact’s 
U.S. Network 
• Served as co-chair of UNEP FI's Global Steering 
Committee
• Engaged community leaders and NGOs at Citi 
Foundation events, including Pathways to Progress, 
Community Progress Makers and Financing 
Sustainable Cities Initiative gatherings Stakeholder Engagement20Stakeholder Group How We Engage Examples from 2018
Employees • Company intranet, email, mail and 
in-person meetings
• Voice of the Employee surveys
• Employee Networks, volunteer 
councils and Green Teams
• Community events
• In-person and online training
• Performance reviews
• Citi Blog• 100,000 employees, friends and families partici -
pated in Citi’s annual day of service events held in 
more than 450 cities across 90 countries 
• Approximately 23,000 employees participated in 
more than 170 Employee Network chapters, and 
more than 1,800 participated in 21 Green Teams 
globally 
• More than 194,000 employees completed compli -
ance training, including on anti-money laundering, 
sanctions and anti-bribery topics 
• Featured stories on Citi’s intranet and in blogs from 
Citi senior executives, employees and partners 
highlighting how we enable growth and progress 
• Established the Global Sustainability Network, 
made up of employees from across Citi whose work 
connects with sustainability and who contribute to 
Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy
Clients and Customers • Meetings to share Citi’s environ -
mental and social performance 
and to understand our clients’ 
approach to managing environ -
mental and social risks
• Social media, including Customer 
Service Twitter handle (@AskCiti)
• Customer satisfaction surveys
• Citi Blog• Engaged Citi mobile customers in a co-creation 
effort to identify digital banking challenges that  
our mobile app could potentially help solve 
• Citi’s CEO held an average of 40 client meetings 
per month in cities around the world
Other Financial 
Institutions• Working groups
• Joint projects 
• In-person meetings,  
conference calls
• Industry groups, roundtables, 
workshops and events• Worked on implementing the Financial Stability 
Board’s TCFD recommendations with UNEP FI and 
15 other banks 
• Member of the Equator Principles Association since 
2004, along with 91 other financial institutions in 
37 countries 
• Founding member of the Diversity Project North 
America, a National Investment Company Service 
Association initiative to promote diversity in the 
asset management industry
• One of 30 financial institutions to sign the Mansion 
House Declaration as part of United for Wildlife’s 
Financial Taskforce to tackle wildlife crimes
• Member of the Banking Standards Board in the 
UK, supporting its independent role to help rebuild 
trust and confidence across the UK banking industry21
Solutions
for Impact
IN THIS SECTION
pg. 23  Inclusive and Resilient Communities
pg. 45  Environmental Finance22FPO photo
23
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  
$49M 
invested globally by 
the Citi Foundation 
through its Pathways 
to Progress program 
to prepare youth for 
21st century jobsInclusive and  
Resilient Communities
Citi and the Citi Foundation take action to effect positive and 
meaningful change in our communities, often working in tandem 
to increase our overall impact. From our focus on infrastructure to 
affordable housing, from jobs to financial inclusion, we are helping 
to build more inclusive and resilient communities. 
Citi and the Citi Foundation focus our efforts in six primary areas,  
with the following overarching impacts and results in 2018.
83 
cities globally engaged in 
implementing municipal 
innovation projects with  
support from the Citi 
Foundation
$11B 
in lending provided 
to small businesses 
in the U.S. $3.7B 
financed in 
green building 
and sustainable 
transportation 
projects globally 440K 
clients of minority-  
owned banks and 
credit unions in 
the U.S. received 
fee-waived access 
through the Citi 
ATM Community 
Network
$6B 
in loans provided for 
affordable housing 
projects in the U.S. Thriving Small BusinessesInfrastructure
Affordable Housing
& Homeownership
Financial InclusionThe Future of Work & Community Change AgentsInnovative Local Government 
Some of the contributors to  
these outcomes in communities:
• Public Sector Group
• Municipal Securities Division
• Inclusive Finance
• Export and Agency Finance
• Community Capital
• Community Development
• Corporate Sustainability
• Citi Foundation
Catalyzing Inclusive and Resilient Communities 
24
This section of the report is by no means a compre -
hensive collection of our efforts but rather a sample 
of highlights to demonstrate how we deploy our 
products, people and financial resources to solve 
problems in our communities, promote economic 
mobility and create economies in which households 
at all income levels have the opportunity to succeed. 
A range of Citi businesses and units contributes 
to the efforts highlighted throughout this section, 
including the following: 
• Citi Public Sector Group globally and Municipal 
Securities Division in the U.S. provide products 
and services to national and local governments, 
central banks and other public-sector institutions 
that enable countries and communities to operate. 
• Citi Export and Agency Finance collaborates 
with export credit agencies, multilateral agencies 
and development finance institutions to help 
expand their reach in both developed and emerg -
ing markets. 
• Citi Community Capital , our community develop -
ment lending and investing group, provides finan -
cial products to help affordable housing develop -
ers construct, rehabilitate, refinance and acquire 
affordable multi-family housing across the U.S.    
• Citi Inclusive Finance works across Citi busi -
nesses globally to develop solutions that enable 
us, our clients and our partners to expand access 
to financial services and advance economic prog -
ress in underserved market segments. 
• Citi Corporate Sustainability partners with 
colleagues across Citi businesses to encourage 
and enable solutions that contribute to sustainable 
growth around the world.
• Citi Community Development forges innovative 
partnerships with nonprofits and public agencies 
across the U.S. to expand access to financial  
products and services and build sustainable busi -
ness solutions. 
In addition, the Citi Foundation , a private founda -
tion funded by Citi, provides philanthropic grants 
to community organizations around the world for 
efforts that increase financial inclusion, catalyze job 
opportunities for youth and reimagine approaches to 
building economically vibrant cities.  Participants at a Citi Foundation Community Progress 
Makers convening in Miami.
Underlying our approach is the notion that no 
single institution can address system challenges by 
working in a silo. We rely on a variety of partner -
ships — with clients, governments, NGOs, academic 
institutions, and companies ranging from startups 
to large, multinational corporations — to succeed. 
These partnerships highlight how our work contrib -
utes directly to SDG 17 , which seeks to strengthen 
the means of implementation and revitalize the 
global partnership for sustainable development . 
In particular, Citi’s efforts contribute to target 
17.3, which seeks to mobilize additional financial 
resources for developing countries from multiple 
sources , including the private sector, to ensure 
sufficient financing is available to achieve the SDGs. 
SDG Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals
25
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  
 Innovative Local 
Government  
and Community 
Change Agents
As national socioeconomic agendas around the 
world are increasingly politicized, local governments 
and community organizations are playing a bigger 
role as change agents, leading on a wide array 
of issues, including infrastructure, employment, 
housing and financial health. Moreover, these enti -
ties often do so while facing significant budget and 
resource constraints. A core pillar of our efforts to 
invest in local communities is to collaborate with 
— and provide financial solutions to — local govern -
ments and community organizations. Public-Sector and Institutional Funding
We provide a broad range of banking and financial 
products and services, advice and support to 
public-sector clients, such as government agencies, 
central banks, development organizations, NGOs and 
academic institutions, to enable them to more effec -
tively provide critical services to local communities.
In West Africa, for example, where we are a bank 
to other financial institutions in a number of coun -
tries, we are expanding our focus on public-sector 
institutions. Governments in the region, which have 
aggressive development plans amid fast economic 
growth, require financing to meet their objectives. In 
Côte d’Ivoire, Citi has had a presence since 1975, with 
only a brief hiatus during 2010 and 2011 in the wake of 
post-electoral conflict. Since then, Citi has been working 
with government and banking authorities to help 
restore the country’s financial system. Our expansion < Stimulating International Trade
Historically, international trade has been seen as a 
driver of growth, and 2018 witnessed a shift in how 
trade is conducted. Our role is to continue to facil -
itate efficient trade while helping clients prepare 
for and adapt to changing policy frameworks. In 
emerging markets, Citi looks for opportunities 
to stimulate international trade growth, helping 
clients identify favorable market conditions in 
order to “de-dollarize” debt — in other words, 
convert supranational hard-currency loans to local 
currency debt, thereby mitigating foreign exchange 
risk and promoting the development of swap 
markets in the country.
In 2018, Citi and the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank, 
announced the signing of a $1.2 billion risk-sharing  
facility to support emerging market trade flows. 
The initiative will work in partnership with global 
and regional banks with the goal of expanding 
the availability of trade at a time of reported 
global scarcity. The signing marks the extension of an existing 
facility under the IFC’s Global Trade Liquidity 
Program, first launched by the IFC and Citi in 
2009. Since then, these collaborative efforts 
have financed a total trade volume of $29 billion, 
with around $11.1 billion in low-income and 
lower-middle-income countries and another  
$4.5 billion in countries categorized by the World 
Bank as among the poorest. The longstanding 
partnership has facilitated financing for 4,092 
trade transactions through 163 banks in 46 
emerging countries, of which 25 are low- or 
lower-middle-income countries.  
26
< Service Design for and with Low-Income New Yorkers
Service design is an emerging field that works to 
actively engage all stakeholders of a service —  
especially beneficiaries — to better understand every 
aspect of how a service is administered to improve 
its delivery and impact. Think of it as a people- 
centered approach that takes into account how 
services are delivered in a more holistic fashion.
In October 2017, the New York City Mayor’s Office 
for Economic Opportunity, the Mayor’s Fund to 
Advance New York City and Citi launched the 
nation’s first-ever municipal Service Design Studio 
and toolkit dedicated to making public services 
for lower-income New Yorkers as effective and 
accessible as possible. The studio launch built on 
several years of work with the city of New York 
to explore the use of service design to improve 
services that meet the needs of its most vulnera -
ble residents, from free tax preparation to finan -
cial coaching, through the Designing for Financial 
Empowerment initiative . 
The Service Design Studio at the Mayor’s Office 
for Economic Opportunity and its accompanying 
toolkit, NYC Civic Service Design Tools + Tactics, 
provide a central resource for expertise and best 
practices in service design to support public 
servants in New York City. The service design 
approach incorporates ethnographic field research, behavioral science, economics, information tech -
nology, design and other related disciplines. The 
Service Design Studio is available to all New York 
City government agencies, providing a valuable 
resource to test and scale innovative public service 
improvements for low-income New Yorkers. 
In its first year, the Service Design Studio reached 
more than 600 government employees from more 
than 40 city agencies through 13 workshops, 
five civic design forums and 125 office hours. 
The Studio also selected the Administration for 
Children’s Services’ proposal for the yearlong 
Pathways to Prevention project to put families at 
the center of child welfare preventative services. 
In 2018, the Studio received awards for innovation 
by design and government creativity from Fast 
Company  and Adobe.
Meanwhile, the city of Oakland, Calif., launched an 
official service design program in early 2018 with 
assistance from Citi. Oakland upgraded a website 
on which renters can question increases in rent 
that they consider to be unlawful. The city is also 
developing programs that will connect young 
people with summer jobs and is partnering with 
Citi on a financial empowerment program for low- 
to moderate-income mothers and their families, 
especially women of color.into public-sector finance in West Africa — including 
in Senegal, Cameroon, Gabon and the Democratic 
Republic of Congo — will help support education, health, 
security and an estimated $130 billion to $170 billion in 
needed infrastructure spending. 
Our services to the public sector recently earned us 
recognition as the Most Innovative Investment Bank 
for Sovereigns, Supranationals and Agencies (SSAs) 
from The Banker , which cited Citi’s work helping SSAs 
with new technologies such as artificial intelligence, 
big data analytics and blockchain.  
Innovative Financing
Many investors are looking for returns beyond profit, 
and Citi offers products that deliver on this intent. 
Thematic bonds — such as green, social and sustain -
ability bonds — provide a way for investors to see yields while also contributing to positive environmental and 
social solutions. Thematic bonds continue to evolve 
to address changing needs and issues, and Citi works 
closely with clients and partners on new products.
For example, catastrophe bonds are a prefunded 
mechanism to provide a government immediate liquid -
ity after a natural disaster, helping kick-start recovery 
efforts, stave off a downward financial spiral and 
build resilience. In September 2018, we underwrote a 
$1.36 billion catastrophe bond for four Latin American 
countries. The proceeds from the sale to investors are 
held at the World Bank as collateralized insurance. 
If an earthquake were to strike, the funds would get 
released to the sponsoring government(s) to finance 
relief, recovery and budgetary support.
The bond issuance was the largest earthquake 
catastrophe bond and sovereign catastrophe bond 
to date. For Citi, a deal of this type demonstrates the 27
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  
breadth and depth of our relationships — connecting 
governments, the World Bank, investors and the 
insurance industry to achieve a landmark transaction.  
To learn more about Citi’s efforts to promote the growth 
of other thematic bonds, including green and sustain -
ability bonds, visit the Environmental Finance section . 
Philanthropic Efforts
Around the world, NGOs make valuable contributions 
to addressing difficult social problems. But they need 
funding and other resources to amplify the impact 
of their work or to pursue as-yet-unproven solutions 
that can be tested and later brought to scale. This 
is often where Citi and the Citi Foundation can play 
an effective role. Moreover, by helping city leaders 
develop technology-driven solutions to urban chal -
lenges, our initiatives help support SDG 9, which 
promotes inclusive and sustainable industrialization 
and fosters innovation. 
City Accelerator
Since 2014, the City Accelerator, an initiative of 
the Citi Foundation and Living Cities, has gathered 
municipal leaders from U.S. cities of all sizes to share 
learnings and try new approaches for sustainable 
and equitable urban growth. In 2018, the Foundation 
expanded the initiative to five more cities — Atlanta, 
Ga., El Paso, Texas, Long Beach, Calif., Newark, N.J., 
and Rochester, N.Y. — bringing the total to 22 cities since the program’s inception. Through Living Cities, 
these five cities are working on projects that support 
the growth of local minority-owned businesses in 
their communities, recognizing untapped potential 
and creating high-quality jobs. 
In the U.S., cities spend an estimated $1 trillion 
annually on goods and services. Local governments 
are recognizing an opportunity to re-engineer the 
procurement process to provide more opportunities 
for minority businesses, which often lack the capital 
to meet the upfront requirements to bid on city 
contracts. Charlotte, N.C. — part of City Accelerator’s 
2017 cohort of cities — launched AMP UP Charlotte, 
a seven-month, in-person technical assistance 
program for minority business owners seeking city 
contracts. And the city of Milwaukee, also part of the 
2017 group, worked to build awareness of contract -
ing opportunities and inclusion programs after a 
survey of small and minority-owned businesses 
revealed a lack of awareness.      
The City Accelerator directly contributes to SDG 9 ,  
target 9.3, which seeks to increase the access of 
small-scale industrial and other enterprises, in 
particular in developing countries, to financial 
services, including affordable credit, and their 
integration into value chains and markets. 
SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
“We’re lifelong learners who want to be responsive to the needs of 
local minority- and women-owned firms. We learned from fellow City 
Accelerator cities and are reducing barriers for these businesses.”
—  Cathy Kwiatkowski, Director of Public Affairs,  
Department of Procurement Services, City of Chicago
“The city of Milwaukee redesigned inclusion marketing efforts, piloted 
a new public buying plan, and hosted networking sessions and an 
internal workgroup to increase participation of diverse businesses.”
—  Nikki Purvis, Director, Department of Administration,  
Office of Small Business Development, City of Milwaukee 28
Cities for Citizenship
Since 2014, Citi has partnered with the mayors of 
Los Angeles, Chicago and New York City, as well as 
the Center for Popular Democracy and the National 
Partnership for New Americans, to implement Cities 
for Citizenship. This nonpartisan national initiative 
helps provide naturalization resources to the esti -
mated 8.8 million legal U.S. residents eligible for citi -
zenship and encourages cities to invest in citizenship 
programs. About half of those eligible for citizenship 
are low income, and becoming a naturalized citizen 
can improve access to higher-paying jobs, increasing 
salary by as much as 11 percent. As a founding corpo -
rate partner of Cities for Citizenship, we have worked 
with municipalities and nonprofit organizations across 
the country to expand naturalization and financial 
inclusion programs and provide access to legal assis -
tance, microloans and financial counseling. Since its 
launch, Cities for Citizenship has grown from a collab -
oration with three cities to a network of more than 70 
cities and counties across the U.S. More information is 
available in latest Cities for Citizenship report .
Community Progress Makers Fund
Citi and the Citi Foundation regularly work with 
community organizations to amplify their impact. The 
Community Progress Makers Fund began in 2015 as a 
two-year, $20 million initiative by the Citi Foundation 
to support high-impact community organizations 
that are driving economic opportunities in their 
communities. Forty nonprofit organizations in six 
cities received general operating support grants of 
$500,000 over two years plus access to skills-based, 
pro bono Citi volunteer teams and a network of 
technical experts. The unrestricted funds allow these 
organizations to learn and innovate. By providing 
technical assistance, we not only build capacity in 
what grantees are already good at, we also drive 
progress toward achieving stronger results.
Based on the success of those first 40 participating 
organizations, the Foundation renewed the Fund and 
announced 40 new grantees in 2018 that are already 
increasing their impact, including connecting low-in -
come families to affordable housing, strengthening 
small businesses and helping community residents 
participate in public decision-making.
< Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative
A recent report by Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions 
(Citi GPS) sets out seven steps for making cities more 
sustainable. Contrasting “the vicious and virtuous circles 
of urban investment,” the report examines how cities can 
make the most of the money they have and gain access to 
greater funding via innovative new financing structures.
Those seven steps will require central governments, 
industry, the financial community and cities to all do their 
part to tackle challenges from sustainable infrastruc -
ture to sustainable transportation. Learn more in the 
Sustainable Cities report .
The Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative (FSCI), a 
partnership funded by the Citi Foundation, aims to help 
educate cities about how to accelerate and scale up their 
investments in sustainable urban solutions. In 2015, the 
Foundation teamed up with the WRI Ross Center for 
Sustainable Cities and the C40 Cities Climate Leadership 
Group to help reduce global emissions and improve 
quality of life for urban residents around the world. One 
area of focus is transportation infrastructure, which is 
essential for sustainable growth.
In Bhopal, India, for example, the FSCI provided technical 
assistance for India’s first bike share program. The city 
had been seeing an increase in road traffic — and resulting 
increases in noise and air pollution — but had low levels of 
bicycle ridership, in part due to a lack of infrastructure that 
could ensure cyclists' safety. The bike program launched in 
2017 with 500 bicycles and 50 docking stations. Within the 
first two months, it had 17,000 members, growing to more 
than 30,000 by March 2018. In addition to the bikes and 
docking stations, the city has invested in bike lanes on city 
streets to help protect cyclists.
The FSCI is supporting sustainable transportation 
systems in other cities as well, such as bike shares in 
Bogotá and Cali, Colombia, and electric buses in Buenos 
Aires, Los Angeles, and Durban, South Africa.29
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  
45 K 
people helped  
in securing  
financial assets$13.5 M 
saved in  
energy costs2.4 K 
small businesses 
strengthened36 K  
people placed in 
affordable housing4.5 K  
young people 
connected to jobs
* Includes impacts across all Community Progress Makers, from 2016 to October 2018.Impacts of the Community 
Progress Makers Fund
“The Community Progress Makers Fund 
is building our capacity to expand our 
program and double the number of lives 
we are able to change for the better.” 
— Tom Vozzo, Homeboy Industries, Los Angeles
“Programs like Citi Foundation’s Community Progress 
Makers Fund facilitate our efforts to bridge the 
economic divide. By funding local nonprofits, they 
serve as key partners in our mission to create a 
pathway to prosperity for low-income residents 
through everything from affordable housing to 
economic development. This enables us to continue 
working to create transformative change and  
make lasting impacts on our residents’ lives.”
— Mayor Francis Suarez, City of Miami With support from the Community Progress Makers Fund, 40 nonprofit organizations in 
cities across the U.S. deployed innovative solutions to address longstanding urban economic 
challenges, from creating jobs to expanding affordable housing to supporting small businesses 
and increasing energy savings for families. Below is a snapshot of their collective impact. 
Cumulative Impacts of Community Progress Makers*“We are piloting an integrated model that provides 
diverse Bay Area small businesses with affordable 
loans, pro bono mentoring, and quality jobs tools and 
incentives to help them create jobs that are good for 
their workers and good for their business.”
—  Mary Jo Cook, Pacific Community Ventures, San Francisco
30
Infrastructure
In our 2016 Citi GPS report, Infrastructure for 
Growth , we estimated that as much as $59 trillion 
in global infrastructure investment will be needed 
by 2030 to keep up with demand and replace 
aging systems. While the need for improved infra -
structure negatively impacts the lives of people 
worldwide, low-income communities and develop -
ing economies are especially hard hit. As noted in 
the report, more than 1.5 billion people around the 
world live without electricity, nearly 1 billion lack 
clean water and 2.5 billion have no access to basic 
sanitation. This deficiency impacts those living in 
developed countries too; according to the American 
Society of Civil Engineers, degraded infrastructure 
in the U.S. decreases GDP by nearly $4 trillion and 
costs American families an average of $3,400 in 
disposable income annually.1 Public- and private-sector stakeholders need to work 
together to find ways to overcome investment barriers. 
Citi finances billions in infrastructure projects around 
the world. In 2018, our activities included providing 
more than $3.7 billion in green building and sustainable 
transportation projects that are helping cities meet 
the needs of rapid urbanization and work toward SDG 
9, which commits to build resilient infrastructure, 
promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization 
and foster innovation , as well as SDG 11 , which aims 
to make cities and human settlements inclusive, 
safe, resilient and sustainable. Our work contributes 
to target 9.1 , which includes developing quality, 
reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure , 
and also supports target 11.2 , which includes an aim of 
providing access to safe, affordable, accessible and 
sustainable transport systems for all.  
SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure
SDG Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities< Supporting Water Infrastructure
Poor water management policies, insufficient infra -
structure and a lack of effective pricing mechanisms 
are major contributors to an impending global water 
crisis. New approaches to demand for water are 
more urgent than ever. According to a 2017 report 
by Citi GPS, $7.5 trillion to $9.7 trillion is needed 
in investment for water and sanitation and related 
equipment around the world to address this issue.
In September 2018, Citi priced the Texas Water 
Development Board’s State Water Implementation 
Revenue Fund for Texas Revenue Bonds. The  
$1.7 billion transaction was issued to provide funds 
to implement the state water plan and to provide 
financial assistance for eligible water-supply infrastructure activities, such as new wells, transmis -
sion lines and a large regional water-supply project. 
The transaction was the largest issuance completed 
to date for the Texas Water Development Board.
Also in 2018, Citi acted as a joint bookrunner/ratings 
advisor on Korea Water Resources Corporation’s 
$300 million, five-year green bond. This state-owned 
company in South Korea develops and manages 
water resources and water-supply facilities. The 
bond will be used to finance and/or refinance water 
projects related to climate change adaptation, 
sustainable water supply, renewable energy and 
water management.  
1 “Infrastructure Report Card: Economic Impact,” American Society of Civil Engineers, accessed February 2019,  
https://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/the-impact/economic-impact .  31
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  replace photo
New York City’s vast underground 
network of trains is likely the first thing 
that comes to mind when thinking of 
the city’s public transportation. But the 
newest form of public transportation is 
also making its mark. Since launching in 
2013, Citi Bike has become an integral 
part of the public transport landscape 
in the city.
Over the course of five years in New 
York, Citi Bike facilitated more than  
70 million trips and today boasts nearly 
145,000 annual members, employing 
more than 475 people during peak 
summer season. Citi Bike has also 
expanded beyond our hometown, with 
the trademark blue bicycles popping up 
in Miami, Fla., and Jersey City, N.J. 
In 2018, Citi Bike rolled out a New York 
City fleet of 200 pedal-assist electric 
bikes, which are powered by a front-
wheel motor that allows bikers to ride 
up to 18 miles per hour with an electric 
“boost.” The e-bikes were averaging 
14 trips per day, double the average of 
traditional bikes.And in late 2018, the ride-sharing 
company Lyft announced it will invest 
$100 million to improve and strengthen 
New York’s Citi Bike system, including 
doubling its service area and tripling the 
number of bikes in the next five years, 
making it one of the largest bike share 
systems in the world. 
Citi Bike has been one of the most 
visible demonstrations of our bank’s 
commitment to playing an active 
role in the communities we serve 
and making a positive contribution to 
society. The program exemplifies how 
a public–private partnership can lead 
to more sustainable solutions. In New 
York, the public–private concept was 
recently extended to increase accessi -
bility among lower-income residents. 
Individuals living in New York City 
and Jersey City Housing Authorities 
residences are eligible for discounted 
Citi Bike memberships of $5 a month, 
with no long-term commitment. The 
discount is also available for New 
Yorkers who receive Supplemental 
Nutrition Assistance Program benefits. New York City 
Launched: May 2013 
Trips since launch: 71.8M 
Miles traveled: 124.1M 
Annual members: 144K
Miami  
Launched: Dec. 2014 
Trips since launch: 6.4M 
Miles traveled: 19.2M 
Annual members: 5.8K
Jersey City 
Launched: Sept. 2015 
Trips since launch: 978K 
Miles traveled: 1.2M 
Annual members: 3.4K
Five Years and CountingCiti Bike 
All figures are through December 31, 2018.32new photo to come
Affordable Housing 
and Homeownership
Soaring housing costs and weak income growth are 
placing significant affordability pressures on low- 
and moderate-income households.2 National median 
rents in the U.S. rose 20 percent faster than infla -
tion overall between 1990 and 2016, with median 
home prices rising 41 percent faster. While the 
growth in renter households appears to be slowing 
and homeownership rising, there continues to be a 
wide gap in homeownership by race and ethnicity.3 
Communities of color and low-income families 
continue to be disproportionately impacted by these 
trends, contributing to growing inequality. 
Citi is working to help solve the affordable housing 
crisis by financing projects in low-income urban 
areas and developing new models to strengthen 
affordable housing markets overall. This work aligns 
with SDG target 11.1 , which includes providing access 
for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and 
basic services. 
SDG Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities
Financing Affordable Housing
We offer a range of housing financing solutions — 
including municipal bonds, tax credits and subsidies 
— to affordable housing developers. We focus on 
projects that serve low-income and special needs 
populations, including seniors, individuals with 
disabilities and the homeless. Our work goes beyond 
just housing; we also finance projects critical to 
strong and vibrant communities such as schools, 
healthcare facilities and businesses that contribute 
to revitalization. At Citi, our experience as one of the 
leading providers of affordable housing financing 
in the U.S. enables us to support clients through 
complex development projects that take advantage 
of growing development opportunities, including 
adaptive reuse and Rental Assistance Demonstration 
(RAD) programs.
< Natural Disasters
Citi and the Citi Foundation continued support 
for disaster relief and recovery efforts across 
the globe in 2018. The Foundation provided a 
$500,000 grant to the American Red Cross 
for its Annual Disaster Giving Program, which 
enables the organization to immediately and 
efficiently respond to disasters across the 
U.S. with health services, food and medical 
supplies, and provided supplementary support 
in the aftermath of Hurricanes Florence and 
Michael and wildfires. In India, through Citi and 
employee giving, over $200,000 was raised to 
rebuild the homes and lives of families devas -
tated by the floods in Kerala.
We also continued to support the communities 
still recovering from extreme weather events 
in late 2017. Citi gave $500,000 to four orga -
nizations in Puerto Rico to target some of the 
communities hardest hit by Hurricane Maria. 
These funds are supporting housing coun -
seling, repairs and other recovery services 
across the island. And, following earthquakes 
in Mexico in 2017, Fomento Social Banamex, 
which leads our philanthropic efforts in Mexico 
in close coordination with the Citi Foundation, 
received more than $6 million in public dona -
tions and matched those funds with support 
from other foundations, to contribute more 
than $12 million to relief and recovery efforts. 
Throughout 2018, these funds went to 49 proj -
ects across the seven Mexican states affected 
by the earthquakes.
Citi supported recovery for communities in  
Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria.
2 Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, The State of the Nation’s Housing 2018, (2018)  
http://www.jchs.harvard.edu/sites/default/files/Harvard_JCHS_State_of_the_Nations_Housing_2018.pdf . 
3 Ibid.  Family Advisory Network 2017 Survey Results Released,” Military America Saves (website), accessed February 2019, https://militarysaves.org/blog/1578-mili-
tary-family-advisory-network-2017-survey-results-released.
33
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  
Adaptive reuse projects allow developers to take 
existing non-residential buildings and convert them 
into livable housing units. These often-complex  
projects test the capabilities of financiers and devel -
opers alike; but, when successful, they not only  
provide valuable housing but also can help preserve 
landmarks and contribute to the growth of the 
surrounding community. Renovating existing build -
ings also often comes at a lower environmental cost 
than building new ones. One such example is in  
El Paso, Texas, where we are helping to finance the $55.3 million transition of the historic Blue Flame 
building — so named for a 21-foot steel and plexi -
glass flame at the top of the tower — from an office 
building into 120 affordable housing apartments and 
nearly 40,000 square feet of commercial space.  
Citi provided a $21 million construction loan and  
a $3.75 million permanent loan for the project to 
complement low-income housing tax credits and 
historic tax credits. In the last five years, we have 
financed 25 adaptive reuse projects across the  
U.S., totaling nearly $658 million.
Affordable Housing Impacts
215 
11283 Rehab 
construction
79 New 
construction
42 Other 
permanent 
financing   
7 Adaptive 
reuse
4 Acquisition
33 
States
248 
Cities365
Formerly 
homeless units
121
Vet units156
Workforce units
22.8K
Additional 
affordable 
housing1.6K
Transit-oriented 
development 
units10K
Senior unitsPROJECTS CLOSED
CLIENTS  
SERVED2K 
572 
Green buildings
30M 
Total square feetBUILDINGS FINANCEDIn 2018, we provided more than $6 billion in loans for affordable housing projects in the U.S., 
covering more than 35,000 units in 248 cities, serving as the leading financer of affordable 
housing in the U.S. for the ninth consecutive year.
other
vet
workforce
homeless
TOD
senior35KHOUSING UNITS 
CREATED34
RAD is a program of the U.S. Department of Housing 
and Urban Development that seeks to preserve and 
improve affordable housing. According to federal 
figures, public housing units across the country 
need more than $26 billion in repairs, but many 
local housing authorities cannot afford to pay for 
the necessary upgrades. The RAD program allows 
public housing agencies to change the way they are 
funded so they can be eligible for repair loans. Citi has 
financed 51 such developments since 2015, totaling 
$1.4 billion of debt and another $300 million of low- 
income housing tax credits. In New York, for example, 
Citi provided $213 million in financing to renovate 
Ocean Bay Apartments, a 1,395-unit distressed public 
housing development that suffered considerable 
damage from Hurricane Sandy in 2012. Citi has also 
supported a RAD Roundtable in New York City to share 
best practices and help these efforts scale.
Inclusive and Supportive Housing
Citi works to increase and preserve affordability 
while strengthening affordable housing options for 
vulnerable populations that are often overlooked. 
In Washington, D.C., Citi provided the construction 
loan to finance the conversion of Abrams Hall Senior 
Apartments, a former Army barracks at the Walter 
Reed Medical Campus. The building will provide 80 
units for low-income seniors — 64 of them for senior 
households earning 50 percent or less of the area 
median income (AMI), with the remainder for senior 
households earning 30 percent or less of the AMI.  
Discrimination against members of the LGBT+ 
community can be a roadblock to accessing safe and 
affordable housing. Many LGBT+ seniors in particular 
now live in “mainstream” housing communities, 
without programs to appropriately address the needs 
of older LGBT+ populations. It is estimated that 
nearly 50 percent of older same-sex couples applying 
for senior housing are subjected to discrimination. 
Citi partners with SAGE, one of the nation’s oldest 
nonprofit organizations dedicated to the needs of 
the elder LGBT+ constituency, to help ensure that 
communities are equipped to support aging LGBT+ 
residents through capacity building, consumer educa -
tion, advocacy, training and the construction of more 
LGBT+-welcoming housing. 
Citi is also collaborating with True Colors United to 
address the housing challenges disproportionately 
facing LGBT+ youth nationwide.Innovative Approaches to Creating and 
Preserving Affordable Housing
A half century after the Fair Housing Act was passed 
to boost access to housing opportunities for all U.S. 
residents, the entry point for homeownership is 
only getting higher. While housing prices have risen 
across the country, real median household income 
has remained stagnant, pushing many families out 
of the neighborhoods they have long called home.
Citi has zeroed in on a proven tool for creating and 
preserving affordable housing: community land 
trusts (CLT). A CLT is a nonprofit organization that 
buys land to build permanently affordable housing 
for low-income households. Under this model, the 
CLT places a cap on resale and rental prices to 
maintain affordability over the long term, even as 
property prices in the area escalate. This enables 
renters to acquire stable, affordable housing, while 
those able to buy can build equity and accrue other 
benefits of homeownership.
Citi has invested approximately $5 million in seeding 
new CLTs in New York City, Long Island, Washington, 
D.C., and Miami, among other locations in the U.S.  
A new initiative — the Citi/Grounded Solutions 
Network CLT Accelerator Fund — is propelling the 
growth of CLTs and other shared-equity programs. 
With a $1 million investment from Citi, the Grounded 
Solutions Network is scaling up the sector and 
increasing access to permanently affordable home -
ownership for low-income, first-time homebuyers. 
In 2018, Grounded Solutions held a competitive 
review process to select three Accelerator Fund 
recipients. With support from Citi, the Grounded 
Solutions Network is providing technical assistance 
and investing $500,000 in capital grants to exist -
ing high-capacity CLTs and similar shared-equity 
homeownership programs that hold the potential to 
transform the lives of low-income households.35
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  
Citi is also backing Accelerator Funds in San 
Francisco and New York, cities where affordable 
housing is especially lacking. In San Francisco, Citi 
was an early investor in a public–private partner -
ship that aims to accelerate the production and 
preservation of 1,500 rental units in the fund’s first 
five years. In New York, Citi invested in the Joint 
Ownership Entity NYC (JOE NYC), which is enabling 
neighborhood-based nonprofit housing organizations 
to aggregate their affordable units to achieve econ -
omies of scale. Together, these organizations have 
created the city’s largest nonprofit housing portfolio, 
totaling more than 3,000 units in 52 affordable 
housing projects. In 2018, Citi invested $1 million to 
help JOE NYC acquire an additional 1,000 units of 
affordable housing over 18 months. 
In Puerto Rico, Citi is investing in a CLT in an area 
hard hit in 2017 by Hurricane Maria. The Caño Martin 
Peña CLT focuses on a densely populated area of San 
Juan that is home to a disproportionate number of 
low-income residents. Citi’s investment aims to help 
families secure a pathway to ownership and long-
term affordability. Since 2016, we have invested more 
than $1 million in housing assistance in Puerto Rico.Thriving Small 
Businesses
Small businesses are fundamental to the success of 
the global economy, generating two out of every three 
net new jobs in the U.S. alone;4 yet they often face 
difficulties accessing the capital and development 
resources needed to thrive and grow. Through direct 
financing and partnerships with community organi -
zations and local government, we support the growth 
and development of small businesses and the broader 
economic ecosystem in countries around the world. In 
2018, Citi invested more than $11 billion in small busi -
ness lending in the U.S.  
Removing Barriers to Growth
Citi works with public and private partners to help 
remove the individual and systemic barriers to 
success for current and aspiring small business 
owners, such as access to capital and affordable 
space, as well as roadblocks to entrepreneurship. 
Because the specific challenges facing entrepreneurs 
often vary by region, country or even city, we engage 
with local entities to implement thoughtful solutions.
In Asia, for example, Citi recently signed an agreement 
with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) through its 
Trade Finance Program (TFP) to help address the 
trade finance needs of small and medium-sized enter -
prises. Through the May 2018 agreement, the ADB 
and Citi intend to collaborate in financing up to  
$100 million or more in trade to support importers 
and exporters in developing markets. Citi and the 
ADB, which have been working together since 2009 
to support trade in Asia, share the risk underlying 
these transactions. Over nearly a decade, the ADB’s 
TFP has supported more than 12,000 small and 
medium-sized businesses across developing Asia in 
sectors ranging from commodities and capital goods 
to medical supplies and consumer goods. 
< Affordable Housing:  
Mayors’ Biggest Concern
What’s the #1 reason why residents leave their city? 
The lack of affordable housing, which tops the list 
of concerns among the nation’s municipal leaders, 
according to the 2017 Menino Survey of Mayors. 
Named after the late Boston Mayor Thomas M. 
Menino, the annual survey is the largest and most 
comprehensive of its kind in the U.S., with 110 sitting 
mayors participating in the most recent study. Citi has 
supported the survey for four consecutive years.
4 U.S. Small Business Administration Office of Advocacy, Small Business Quarterly Bulletin (March 2018), page 1, https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/
files/advocacy/Quarterly_Bulletin_March_2018.pdf .n36
In Paraguay, Citi is supporting government-backed 
efforts to promote access to financing for micro, 
small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) in 
an effort to bring more of them into the formal 
economy. Our Citi Supplier Finance® product will 
allow MSMEs to advance payments using their line of 
credit with Citi at advantageous corporate rates. 
In New York City, Citi partnered with the Local 
Initiatives Support Corporation NYC and the NYC 
Department of Small Business Services on a new 
initiative to help revitalize commercial corridors and 
small businesses across the city. Community organi -
zations applied for funding and access to expertise 
to implement initiatives that were most valuable 
to their corridors. The organizations focused on 
storefront improvements, such as new signage and 
lighting, as well as broader efforts aimed at boosting 
foot traffic, increasing sales and contributing to a 
greater sense of safety.  
Across the country, millions of businesses are at 
risk of closure because aging owners do not have 
succession plans with potential buyers. The loss of 
these businesses has the potential to be devastating 
to their communities. Instead of selling to a single 
buyer, owners can convert their business to  
employee-owned cooperatives — enterprises that 
are owned and governed by their employees. 
Citi supports national organizations such as the 
Democracy at Work Institute and Capital Impact 
Partners to generate research and provide capacity 
building to drive growth in the field of employee 
ownership. In 2018, Citi supported the Washington 
Area Community Investment Fund’s D.C. Employee 
Ownership Initiative, which provides retiring small 
business owners with succession planning guidance 
and support to transfer the ownership of their busi -
nesses to employees.   Supporting Training and Development
The Citi Foundation provides funding to community 
partners to empower entrepreneurs and small busi -
ness owners with business development support and 
training that are invaluable in launching or growing 
their businesses. 
In Colombia, where a decades-long armed civil 
conflict has affected millions of citizens, we assisted 
the country’s largest microfinance membership 
association in its support of agricultural entrepre -
neurs living in rural areas. With Foundation funding, 
Asomicrofinanzas (Asomicro), whose members 
disburse 97 percent of the microcredit in the country, 
is providing specialized training and assistance to 
help 500 of these entrepreneurs grow their busi -
nesses and access additional financing opportunities. 
Asomicro is also offering technical assistance, such 
as financial models and tools tailored to agricultural 
businesses, to microfinance institutions so they, in 
turn, can better serve their clients. 
In the Philippines, the World Vision Development 
Foundation is using Citi Foundation funding in six cities 
across the country to provide mentorship and training 
in topics such as operations management, marketing 
and sustainability planning to 350 microentrepre -
neurs, while also increasing their access to financial 
products and services to help grow their business.
In Russia, the Centre of Social Technologies Garant 
(Garant) is using its network of community centers 
to share best practices and provide counseling and 
education on self-employment to low-income resi -
dents to help them launch and build an enterprise. 
These efforts, which have benefited more than 300 
entrepreneurs, are building the capacity of some 
20 community centers around the country. Garant 
is also launching a campaign to highlight success 
stories that spotlight the role of entrepreneurship in 
creating opportunities in communities. 37
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  
<  Citi Microentrepreneurship Awards
For more than a decade, the Citi Microentrepre-
neurship Awards (CMA) program has been a 
signature financial inclusion initiative of the Citi 
Foundation. Since 2005, the CMA program has 
provided economic empowerment opportunities for 
microentrepreneurs, including a growing number 
of young people, in about 30 countries. To date, the 
Foundation has invested more than $25.2 million 
in microfinance networks and institutions and 
provided $11.6 million in cash prizes to more than 
6,300 entrepreneurs. 
The 2018 winners in Pakistan exemplify the 
program’s ability to change lives. Naseem Maseeh 
from Karachi, owner of a stitching center, has 
trained more than 5,000 women. Although he 
is physically disabled, he was encouraged by his 
microfinance lender to start his own business, 
beginning with only two or three sewing machines.   
His center now operates with more than 100 
machines, and he plans to expand even further. 
Sanobar Anwer, who is based in a remote commu -
nity in Hyderabad, is the owner of a poultry 
shop. Originally discouraged by relatives from 
starting her own business, she now supports her 
family and employs six people. To be eligible for 
the awards in Pakistan, where the program is 
executed in conjunction with the Pakistan Poverty 
Alleviation Fund, a business must have benefited 
from an affordable loan and must have contrib -
uted to local economic growth in its community. < Accelerating Urban Manufacturing
Urban manufacturing jobs hold great promise 
for economic opportunity. The median wage in 
the urban manufacturing sector in the U.S. is 
$50,400 a year, and 63 percent of jobs do not 
require a college degree.
New York City has made the development of the 
industrial and manufacturing sector a key compo -
nent of its strategy to create more living wage 
employment. In 2017, Citi and the Association for 
Neighborhood and Housing Development (ANHD) 
launched the Urban Manufacturing Accelerator 
Fund to create and preserve quality manufacturing 
jobs in New York City. The Fund provides frontlineresources that enable nonprofit developers to more 
effectively acquire and renovate manufacturing 
space. The program complements the NYC Economic 
Development Corporation Industrial Developer 
Fund, which was launched the previous year. 
Managed by the ANHD with support from Citi, 
the Accelerator Fund aims to create 570,000 
square feet of new industrial space through the 
development of up to eight urban manufacturing 
facilities, leveraging an estimated $200 million 
in public–private investment while generating or 
preserving an estimated 500 quality jobs. The 
Fund is providing hands-on technical assistance 
and grant funding of up to $60,000 to support 
nonprofit developers. 
While the rate of unemployment is down in New 
York City, more than 60 percent of the new jobs 
created between 2009 and 2016 were lower-wage 
positions. The Urban Manufacturing Accelerator 
Fund offers an innovative approach to grow New 
York’s industrial and manufacturing sector and 
an inclusive path to higher-wage jobs and greater 
economic security for New York City households. Sanobar Anwer is awarded a Citi 
Microentrepreneurship Award in Pakistan.
A rendering of the Peninsula Project, which received 
funding from the Urban Manufacturing Accelerator Fund.
38
In Mexico — where national and local government 
support and engagement from academia and the 
private sector are helping to create fertile ground for 
social enterprises — we have been investing in initia -
tives that scale early-stage, high-impact environmen -
tal and social enterprises that have the potential to 
benefit thousands of people. Fomento Social Banamex, 
which leads our philanthropic efforts in Mexico in 
close coordination with the Citi Foundation, invested 
more than $800,000 in a range of projects with 
leading NGOs in 2018 that provide specialized training, 
mentorship and access to networks that enable entre -
preneurs to catalyze their impact. 
Inclusive Economic Growth
Most microfinance beneficiaries globally are women, 
making Citi’s work on microfinance a direct contrib -
utor to SDG 5 , in support of gender equality and 
empowerment for all women and girls , and in 
particular target 5.a , which strives for a range of 
gender-related objectives, including giving women 
equal rights to economic resources . By leveraging 
cross-sector partnerships and innovative approaches, 
Citi invests in microfinance and technology solutions 
in underserved markets around the world.
Citi supports businesses, clients and transac -
tions that aim to expand access to products and 
services in low-income communities. We recently 
partnered with Banco Guayaquil on a $20 million 
agreement to expand financial inclusion in Ecuador 
through Banco Guayaquil’s Banco del Barrio 
program, one of the most comprehensive inclusive 
finance programs in Latin America. Similarly, Citi 
entered into a $15 million financing agreement 
with the Microemprendedor Assistance Council, a 
leading microfinance institution in Mexico. These 
agreements are part of a $495.5 million strategic 
initiative between Citi and the U.S. Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation to fund inclusive finance 
programs in emerging markets. To date, Citi has 
funded 53 inclusive businesses in 26 countries, with 
nearly half a billion dollars in debt capital that has 
helped to catalyze the efforts of over 1.3 million 
microentrepreneurs.
SDG Goal 5: Gender EqualityFinancial Inclusion
Access to financial products and services is an 
essential part of financial resiliency — the ability to 
weather income shifts or unexpected costs — for 
both individuals and communities. It is also related to 
wider macroeconomic health. 
An estimated 2 billion adults around the world, 
however — in both developing and developed markets 
— remain outside the formal banking sector. To 
improve access for these people, banks need to under -
stand and address the mistrust of financial institutions 
among many traditionally underbanked communities 
and also invest in innovative products that meet their 
unique needs. We offer products and services that 
help improve financial resiliency and inclusion in these 
communities and partner with organizations that are 
increasing access to financial services and providing 
educational resources to residents.
Our extensive work on financial inclusion contributes 
to progress on SDG 8 , which aims, among other 
things, to provide full and productive employment 
and decent work for all . For example, Citi’s work on 
financial inclusion in the U.S., Mexico and elsewhere 
contributes to target 8.10 , which aims to strengthen 
the capacity of domestic financial institutions to 
encourage and expand access to banking, insurance 
and financial services for all . 
Inclusive finance is also a key success factor for 
progress on SDG 9 , which aims to build resilient 
infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 
industrialization and foster innovation , specifically 
enabling progress on target 9.3 , which seeks to 
increase the access of small-scale enterprises, 
particularly in developing countries, to financial 
services to facilitate integration into value chains 
and markets . 
SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure39
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  
Making Financial Products and Services 
More Accessible
Citi is working to expand access to safe and afford -
able products and services to low-income communi -
ties and communities of color, where a lack of access 
to financial products and services can leave families 
financially vulnerable. 
We have established relationships with 25 minority 
depository institutions, community banks and credit 
unions as part of our Citi® ATM Community Network, 
a pilot program we started in July 2016. Today, more 
than 440,000 customers of these institutions are 
able to use any of Citibank’s 2,300 ATMs without 
paying out-of-network fees.
Smaller banks and credit unions often have difficulty 
maintaining a network of ATMs, which can negatively 
impact their clients. Nationwide, it costs consumers 
an average of $4.69 per transaction to withdraw 
money from an out-of-network ATM. Moreover, 
studies show that low-income communities of color 
favor cash transactions, making ATM access and fees 
especially important.
By removing surcharge fees on cash withdrawals 
from Citibank branch ATMs, we are helping to reduce 
transaction costs, improve convenience and choice 
for customers, and expand access for people in the 
communities we serve. 
Citi’s history of delivering on financial inclusion is one 
of harnessing our global infrastructure, leveraging 
our geographic reach and tapping the deep expertise 
of our partners. By listening to the challenges of our 
clients and the communities we serve, collaborating 
with other institutions and learning from the work 
of leaders in the field of financial inclusion, we are 
working to create scalable, responsible and commer -
cially viable solutions that expand access and deliver 
greater inclusive economic growth.
In Mexico, nearly half of the country’s citizens are 
unbanked. As part of our $1 billion investment in 
2016, Citibanamex — our Mexican subsidiary and the 
country’s second-largest retail bank — is working 
to increase financial inclusion in the country. Our 
investment included funding to create a financial 
inclusion business unit focused on expanding access 
to safe and affordable financial services for unbanked 
citizens. Citibanamex Financial Inclusion builds upon our long track record of supporting microentrepre -
neurs and expands mobile banking tools and financial 
education resources. We are also working directly 
with the Mexican government to support its National 
Financial Inclusion Strategy with private-sector 
resources and expertise. 
Through a joint venture with America Movil and a stra -
tegic partnership with Oxxo, a network of convenience 
stores, Citibanamex provides a basic account and 
mobile banking solution for the unbanked sector in 
Mexico called Transfer. It serves over 10 million clients, 
more than 80 percent of whom are new to banking.
Fostering Financial Empowerment
Building financial knowledge and skills and improv -
ing financial behaviors are important components 
of building a more inclusive financial system. 
Consumers need access to financial products and 
services, as well as the ability to use these products 
responsibly while protecting their own best interests. 
Citi offers a range of free, publicly available financial 
education resources online, including tools that 
help consumers plan for retirement, prepare for life 
changes and protect their wealth. In some instances, 
when customers may need special assistance, such 
as during the U.S. federal government shutdown that 
ended in early 2019, we provide support to effectively < Taking One of the World’s Largest 
Microfinance Institutions Public
ASA International Group, a microfinance company 
with subsidiaries in 12 countries, lends primarily to 
low-income, female microentrepreneurs in Asia and 
Africa — with about 1.9 million clients in all. ASA is 
one of the largest and most profitable global micro -
finance institutions. In 2018, Citi coordinated and 
sponsored ASA’s initial public offering (IPO) — the 
first ever for a global microfinance issuer.
With a market cap of $411 million at launch, ASA 
now has the funding it needs to support its potential 
client base: 365 million individuals without access 
to basic financial services and up to 1 billion under -
served female entrepreneurs. 40
Supporting  
U.S. Veterans
Veterans frequently return from active duty to face a 
host of challenges, including financial insecurity. A recent 
survey5 of military families found that 60 percent of 
respondents did not have enough in their savings to cover 
three months of living expenses. Citi continues to invest 
in solutions that help alleviate the complex challenges 
that military families face, from housing and financial 
education to employment and military transition. 
In collaboration with Military.com, Citi expanded the 
Transition App, which provides resources for managing 
finances, education, health and benefits, and employ -
ment, among other issues. Since its launch in late 2016, 
the app has been downloaded more than 32,000 times. 
The app now features more content to support veterans 
with disabilities and military spouses.
We also announced $300,000 for the Columbia University 
Center for Veteran Transition and Integration, which 
provides educational programming and support for veter -
ans and military family members. The national expansion 
of the center will provide tools and resources for veterans 
entering the classroom and the workplace. The aim is to 
reach 10,000 former service members and their families in 
the first two years. 
In addition, we partner with organizations working to end 
the problem of veteran homelessness. On any given night 
in America, an estimated 37,000 veterans are homeless.6  
Since 2012, Citi has supported the Bring Them HOMES 
initiative of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, 
which finances, facilitates, advocates for and implements 
affordable housing options for veterans, and its affiliate, 
the National Equity Fund. To date, a total of 4,300 afford -
able housing units, including 3,000 specifically for veter -
ans, have been completed or are in development. 
In 2018, Citi commissioned photographer Gus Powell to create Bring 
Them HOMES: Photographs of Resilience, a 30-image exhibition that 
shines a light on the perseverance and dynamic stories of veterans 
who were once homeless or at risk of homelessness. The exhibit, which 
included the two photos above, was on display at Citi’s Long Island 
City and Tribeca offices and will travel to additional cities in 2019.5  “Military Family Advisory Network 2017 Survey Results Released,” Military 
America Saves (website), accessed February 2019, https://militarysaves.org/
blog/1578-military-family-advisory-network-2017-survey-results-released.
6 “2018 Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress,” December 2018, 
https://www.hudexchange.info/resources/documents/2018-AHAR-Part-1.pdf .41
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  
address their needs. In this case, Citi offered assis -
tance measures and dedicated assistance lines for 
customers experiencing financial hardship.
We also partner with community organizations to build 
financial capability for individuals and communities. 
In the U.S., Citi collaborated with 12 major cities and 
regions in 2018 to expand free tax preparation services 
for low-income families. Our investments supported 
the establishment or expansion of federal Earned 
Income Tax Credit awareness campaigns. This tax 
credit is available to those earning less than $54,000 
and provides an average of $2,470 per household. In 
Newark, N.J., for example, residents who used the free 
tax preparation program collected $13 million in total 
tax refunds in 2018, a significant increase from the  
$10 million collected in the prior year. 
We also partnered with the National Disability 
Institute to launch Empowered Cities , a $2 million 
initiative to engage municipalities and community 
partners in the design, testing and delivery of scal -
able financial empowerment and inclusion solutions 
within the disability community. Led by the city of 
New York, EmpoweredNYC is the first local pilot 
of Empowered Cities and focuses on enabling New 
Yorkers with disabilities to improve their financial 
stability. Starting in December 2018, EmpoweredNYC 
launched new financial counseling services specif -
ically tailored to meet the complex financial needs 
of people with disabilities and their families. The 
initiative also offers monthly trainings for service 
providers to learn about financial empowerment 
issues faced by people with disabilities and how to 
connect people with disabilities with the resources to 
meet their financial needs.
We also work with several municipal and community 
partners to educate immigrants on issues of financial 
capability. Many in the Mexican community in the 
U.S., for example, lack exposure to formal financial 
services and are wary of hidden fees and large 
institutions in general. The Ventanilla de Asesoría 
Financiera (VAF) operates within the Mexican 
Consulate and offers advice on banking services and 
money management. Citi provided seed funding to 
create and scale this model and has collaborated with 
the Foreign Ministry of Mexico to expand it to consul -
ates across the country. Of the 48 VAFs operating in 
the consular offices of Mexico in the U.S., Citi directly 
finances eight.The Future of Work
The youth unemployment rate is three times higher 
than that of adults. Allowing economically disad -
vantaged young people to turn into economically 
disadvantaged adults contributes to a destructive 
cycle that hinders the growth of communities, cities 
and economies. Citi and the private sector as a whole 
have a role to play in helping to make the next gener -
ation the most employable yet. And public–private 
partnerships are among the most effective ways to 
reach low-income communities at scale and drive 
positive social and economic gains.
Through the Pathways to Progress initiative, Citi 
and the Citi Foundation help to deliver on SDG 
target 8.6 , which aims to substantially reduce, by 
2020, the proportion of youth not in employment, 
education or training. 
SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Pathways to Progress
Citi and the Citi Foundation are committed to 
preparing young people for today’s competitive job 
market through our Pathways to Progress initiative . 
In 2017, the Citi Foundation doubled its dedication  to 
this cause with a new, three-year, $100 million global 
pledge — the largest philanthropic commitment in 
the Foundation’s history. This builds on its previous 
$50 million effort in the U.S., which helped more 
than 100,000 young people become career-ready 
and employable. 
The Foundation is working to reduce youth unem -
ployment by partnering with community organiza -
tions and municipal leaders to connect 500,000 
young people around the world to jobs, paid 
internships, workforce training and leadership devel -
opment by 2020. Citi is also leveraging the time and 
talents of 10,000 Citi employee volunteers to serve 
as mentors and coaches to provide professional 
advice to help young people move toward achieving 
their career goals.
Over the course of the commitment, we have learned 
a great deal about what works, about where our 
support can add the most value and about the young 42
people that these programs aim to empower. One 
of the key takeaways has been the persistence of 
youth optimism. Research we commissioned in 2017 
found that more than 70 percent of young people 
today feel optimistic about their career prospects 
despite profound uncertainty and change across the globe, and more than 80 percent are willing to take 
risks to achieve their career aspirations.7 At the Citi 
Foundation, we aim to nurture that optimism, and 
heading into the final year of the commitment, we 
took a look back at three key trends we have been 
seeing across our Pathways to Progress grantmaking.
Young people are stepping up to create solutions 
to some of the biggest issues facing their commu -
nities, and we support programs that give them the 
platforms and resources they need to bring their 
solutions to life.
The Partner: UN Development Programme  
In late 2017, the Citi Foundation partnered with 
the UN Development Programme to launch Youth 
Co:Lab, which harnesses youth leadership, entrepre -
neurship and innovation to tackle social challenges 
and unemployment in Asia, where about half of the 
world’s unemployed young people live.  
Youth Co:Lab convened a series of national dialogues 
and social innovation challenges across the region, 
culminating in a summit in March 2018. These 
dialogues served as platforms for young people to 
engage directly with policymakers, private-sector 
partners, youth-led organizations, NGOs and 
academia on how to develop and accelerate youth-led 
entrepreneurship and social innovation. The social 
innovation challenges, akin to startup “hackathons,” 
allowed participants to showcase their proposed 
ideas and solutions to thorny global problems. 
At the concluding summit, five social enterprises 
founded by young people were recognized for their 
innovative approaches toward helping to achieve 
the SDGs. Winning projects included a social media 
chatbot that aims to be a one-stop-shop for ques -
tions about legal and government processes and a 
textile recycling center that collects textile waste to 
be turned into higher-value products such as foot -
wear and fashion accessories. A participant pitching a social enterprise at a Youth Co:Lab 
national dialogue in Malaysia.
The Partner: Mikva Challenge  
In 2017, the Mikva Challenge received a grant as 
part of the Foundation’s Youth Workforce Fund, 
which funded 15 nonprofit organizations in the U.S. 
to provide a range of employment opportunities for 
an estimated 5,000 young people in a wide range 
of areas — from environmental sustainability and 
robotics to culinary arts and coding — through 2018. 
The Mikva Challenge hired about 160 Chicago youth 
to participate in citywide youth councils with commu -
nity leaders, school administrators and city officials 
to identify and help solve pressing issues facing 
the community. The councils included dialogues 
between youth and the Chicago Police Department 
and mandatory workshops for judges and public 
defenders in the juvenile justice court division. Sixty 
recent high school graduates who excelled in Mikva 
programs were placed in paid summer internships in 
city, county, state or federal public officials’ offices.  PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS IN ACTION
Young People Driving Solutions
7 Citi Foundation, Global Youth Survey 2017: Economic Prospects & Expectations, https://www.citigroup.com/citi/foundation/data/pathways_youth_survey_2017.pdf.
43
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
•  
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
Environmental 
Finance  
PATHWAYS TO PROGRESS IN ACTION
Young People Accessing NetworksPATHWAYS TO PROGRESS IN ACTION
Young People Building Skills for  
a Changing Workplace
For a young person, getting a first job can some -
times rest as much on having a strong network as 
it does on having the right skills and experience. 
Networks can open opportunities, provide good role 
models for how to approach the world of work and 
encourage aspirations.A whole generation of youth today is in need of 
resources and skills to adjust to a rapidly evolving 
labor market. In fact, according to the World Economic 
Forum, more than half of the global workforce will 
need to be taught new skills in the next five years as 
emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence 
take over a significant proportion of current jobs.
The Partner: Trust for the Americas  
Trust for the Americas, a nonprofit organization 
affiliated with the Organization of American States, is 
preparing Latin America’s low-income urban youth for 
careers in cyber security. Latin America has seen an 
unprecedented growth of jobs in the tech sector, but 
educational opportunities in the digital arena remain 
limited. This program aims to bridge that skills gap and 
give vulnerable youth access to employment opportu -
nities in high-demand industries. With Citi Foundation 
funding, the Trust has supported young people in 
Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic and Peru 
since 2017 and expanded to Brazil in 2018. Through 
technical skills development and job-readiness training, 
as well as opportunities to become certified, more than 
300 participants in the program have improved their 
prospects for employment in cyber security.   The Partner: Education for Employment  
The Citi Foundation’s longstanding partnership with 
Education for Employment (EFE) is creating economic 
opportunities for urban young people in Morocco, 
Tunisia, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. 
The Middle East and North Africa region has one 
of the largest youth populations in the world — and 
also the highest youth unemployment rate at nearly 
30 percent, more than double the global average. A 
mismatch between the skills taught in local educational 
institutions and the needs of the labor market is at the 
heart of the youth unemployment crisis. EFE focuses 
on training and job placement in growing economic 
sectors, such as data call centers. In 2018, the program 
reached more than 400 youth, nearly doubling the 
impact achieved in the partnership’s first four years.
The Partner: Youth Business International  
In recognition of this, the Citi Foundation supports 
programs that help young people develop networks 
that may gain them employment and further their 
careers. A $1.6 million grant to Youth Business 
International (YBI) is providing 8,700 youth in 
Europe with entrepreneurship training and will 
establish more than 1,000 mentoring relationships 
across eight countries. The Citi Foundation has 
partnered with YBI for more than a decade.
The Partner: iMentor  
In the U.S., the Citi Foundation and iMentor have 
worked together since 2014 to equip high school 
students with the tools they need to succeed academ -
ically and prepare for post-secondary education 
and career opportunities. iMentor’s model pairs 
high school students from low-income backgrounds 
with trained adult volunteers who mentor the young 
people on their college and career goals. In 2018, the 
Foundation awarded iMentor a $1 million grant over 
two years to support close to 16,000 students in New 
York City, Chicago and the San Francisco Bay Area.  A Youth Business International participant opened an 
Ethiopian restaurant in Belgium using skills and a loan he 
received from the program.Youth participants in the cyber security program.
44
  What’s Ahead
Solutions to the wide array of complex and often 
intertwined challenges that communities face 
require collaboration — across the public and 
private sectors, with community organizations and 
with community members themselves. They also 
require that companies, amid growing inequality 
and stunted political discourse, be proactive in 
engaging in and leading conversations that get at 
the root causes of these social challenges. We will 
continue to challenge ourselves to do more, through 
business activity and philanthropy, and by bringing 
key stakeholders together to help build inclusive 
and resilient communities.
< Connecting Americans to Jobs
The Citi Foundation’s efforts around the future of 
work have largely focused on young people, but 
the challenge is much broader, as urbanization, 
globalization and rapid technology change will ensure 
disruption for the current workforce as well. Already, 
the skills gap is a leading cause of unemployment 
and underemployment among adults. In 2018, 
the Foundation provided $10 million to the Local 
Initiatives Support Corporation’s Bridges to Career 
Initiative to help connect unemployed and underem -
ployed Americans with jobs in growth industries that 
need trained workers, including healthcare, transpor -
tation, technology, construction and other industries.
Through an expanded network of sites across the U.S., 
job seekers will have access to a range of services 
designed to increase their incomes, improve their 
credit and raise their standards of living. In addition 
to skills training and career development, services will 
include personal finance coaching, continuing educa -
tion courses to strengthen math and reading skills, and 
resources to help job seekers secure child care and 
housing arrangements. 
Many of the new sites are located in areas that have 
been designated as Opportunity Zones, a federal incen -
tive to increase investments in low-wealth communities 
as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Pathways to Progress Highlights
400 K
Youth reached
7K
Citi volunteers
210K
Young people mentored160
Community programs
15K
Businesses started by 
youth entrepreneurs80
Countries & territories 
across the globe45
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
•  
Environmental 
Finance 
Environmental Finance
A special report  by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change, published in 2018, issued an urgent and ominous warning 
regarding the sooner-than-expected, substantial impacts of a 
warming climate, from rising seas and dying coral reefs to massive 
wildfires and food shortages — all by 2040. Trillions of dollars in 
global investments are needed to limit global warming to 1.5°C 
above pre-industrial levels. 
At Citi, we recognize the critical role our bank can 
play in financing a sustainable economy, including 
championing environmental finance activities. We 
have been outspoken in our support of the Paris 
Agreement, the international plan to address 
climate change and accelerate the actions and 
investments needed for a sustainable future. In 
2018, we signed the We Are Still In declaration as 
part of our ongoing commitment to supporting 
climate change solutions and global collaboration. 
We also furthered our commitment to drive invest -
ment in clean energy and climate resilience by 
becoming a founding member of the U.S. Alliance 
for Sustainable Finance , part of the International 
Network of Financial Centres for Sustainability 
convened by UN Environment.Citi’s $100 Billion 
Environmental  
Finance Goal
Environmental finance, which refers to financial activ -
ity that reduces the impacts of climate change and 
enables positive environmental impact, is one of the 
three pillars of Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy.1 
The flagship initiative of this pillar is our 10-year, 
$100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal (2014–2023). 
Due to increasing environmental finance activity in 
the global market, we now expect to reach the  
$100 billion mark by 2020 — well ahead of schedule. 
By the end of 2018, we had counted $95.3 billion.
The rise in environmental finance activity has been 
driven by exponential growth in sectors such as 
renewable energy, the development of innovative 
financial products and demand in the marketplace. 
When we launched our $100 billion goal, which 
built upon a previous $50 billion goal completed in 
2013, many of the products available today — such 
as green bonds and loans, hedging for renewable 
energy projects and loans linked to environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) performance — were 
relatively new or even nonexistent. The developing 
interest in environmental financing is due not only 
< Climate Leadership Award
In 2018, Citi received a Climate Leadership Award, 
which honors corporations, organizations and 
individuals tackling climate change. Organized by 
the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions and 
The Climate Registry and sponsored by Bloomberg 
Philanthropies, the award recognized Citi’s compre -
hensive approach to addressing climate change and 
supporting sustainable growth. 
1 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard, please see the report Appendices .46
to new and innovative products, however, but also 
to recent efforts by corporations and other organi -
zations to set and achieve their own sustainability 
targets, with an increased recognition of the urgency 
of the climate challenge and the need for solutions. 
To meet these needs, we help our clients achieve 
their sustainability goals while supporting an overall 
stronger and more sustainable global economy. 
Citi’s $100 billion goal supports our mission to 
provide financial services that enable growth and 
economic progress. Each transaction must meet 
at least one of six criteria in order to be counted: 
renewable energy, water quality and conservation, 
sustainable transportation, green building, energy 
efficiency and clean technology. The activities that 
fall under the goal cover a diverse range of products 
and services, such as project and infrastructure 
financing, green bonds, power purchase agreements 
and tax equity financing, to name a few. In 2017, we released a standalone report called 
Sustainable Growth at Citi: Progress and Impacts of 
Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal . The 
report shares our progress toward the goal from 
2014 through June 2017 and provides greater detail 
on our accounting methodology and approach to the 
environmental and social impact measurement of 
Citi’s environmental finance activities. < #1 Bookrunner Ranking
In 2018, Citi was ranked the #1 bookrunner in the 
Dealogic Global and Renewables league tables for 
Project Finance, and we were ranked second in 
Dealogic’s USD-Denominated Sustainable Finance 
league table and fifth in its Green Bond league table. 
We were also ranked second in the industry for our 
municipal finance activity, which includes green bonds, 
by the Thomson Reuters SDC league table and #1 for 
Tax Equity by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
$100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal: Financial Highlights, 2014–2018
$16.0 B
in green bonds**$4.1 B
in green building$61.3 B
in renewable 
energy$6.7 B
in sustainable  
transportation$11.1 B
in water quality  
and conservation$18.5 B
in public finance$95.3 B
toward the $100B Environmental Finance Goal*
RESULTED IN
  * Transactions fall within multiple categories of reporting.
** Includes green portion of sustainability bonds when information is available.47
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
•  
Environmental 
Finance 
< Environmental Finance in Support of the SDGs
According to a recent report,2 an estimated  
$90 trillion of investments in climate projects will 
be needed by 2030 to combat climate change  
and achieve the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals. In addition, global green finance must 
reach $1 trillion by the end of 2020, growing each 
year thereafter. 
Much of the work that we count toward our  
$100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal is directly 
aligned with three of the SDGs: SDG 7 , which seeks 
to ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustain -
able and modern energy for all ; SDG 11 , which 
aims to make cities and human settlements 
inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable; and 
SDG 13 , which contributes to urgent action to 
combat climate change and its impacts . 
For example, target 7.2 , to increase the share of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix by 
2030 , and target 7.3 , to double the global rate 
of energy efficiency improvements by 2030 , 
are both directly aligned with the objectives of 
our $100 billion goal. In 2018, the financing of 
renewable energy and energy efficiency projects 
accounted for $36.3 billion and $800 million, 
respectively, toward our goal. 
The $100 billion goal also directly contributes to 
SDG target 11.2  — which aims to provide access 
to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable 
transport systems for all — thanks to our investments in sustainable transit, another of the 
key criteria of our goal. Through 2018, financing for 
sustainable transit projects contributed a cumula -
tive $6.7 billion toward our goal. 
While SDG 13 is focused on the wider response to 
a changing climate, several of our investments, 
including municipal bond underwriting and activ -
ities supporting water quality and conservation 
projects, deliver on SDG target 13.1 , which aims in 
part to strengthen resilience and adaptive capac -
ity to climate-related hazards. 
SDG Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy
SDG Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities
SDG Goal 13: Climate Action
2 Climate Bonds Initiative, Bonds and Climate Change: The State of 
the Market 2018 (September 2018), https://www.climatebonds.net/
files/reports/cbi_sotm_2018_final_01k-web.pdf .
48
To reach our goal, we apply our environmental criteria:
Working with partners and clients we finance  
a range of transactions, such as the examples listed below:
Our environmental finance activity  
can be seen around the world:ALTERNATIVE ENERGY BANKING  
AND FINANCE
• Wind Energy Project Financing
• Solar Company IPO
GREEN BO NDS
• Corporate Green Bond
• Sovereign Green BondPUBLIC FINANCE
• Wind Energy Power Transit Bond
•  LEED-Certified Affordable  
Housing LoanCOMMODITIES
•  Power Purchase Agreement
•  Monetization of Renewable Energy Credits
CONSUMER/COMMERCIAL BANKING
•  Solar Company Corporate LoanWater Quality and 
ConservationRenewable  
EnergyEnergy 
EfficiencyGreen 
BuildingClean  
TechnologySustainable 
Transportation
$54.3 B
North America
$1.4 B
Latin America$30.4 B
Europe, Middle East 
and Africa$4.1 B
Multiple  
Regions$95.3 B
Total
$5.0 B
Asia Pacific
8.5 M mt CO 2e
Emissions avoided131.6 K
Jobs supported  
(direct, indirect 
and induced)55.9 M
Population in U.S. cities  
and counties served by  
water-quality projects5.5 K MW
New renewable 
energy capacity5.7 K
Families served by 
green affordable 
housingThis work results in measurable impacts:Figures may not sum to total due to rounding.Our $100B Environmental Finance  
Goal in Action49
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
•  
Environmental 
Finance 
Our Accounting Methodology
We use a league table3 credit methodology, based on 
third-party verifiable data, to calculate Citi’s share 
of the deals included in the $100 billion goal. This 
approach counts Citi’s direct contribution to environ -
mental solutions on behalf of our clients, according 
to our role in each transaction, and aligns with the 
financial sector’s method for measuring credit for 
business activity. To demonstrate transparency and 
promote wider adoption of this approach among our industry peers, we have made this methodology 
publicly available.
For the majority of the financial activity counted 
toward the goal, we use league table accounting 
measures from Dealogic, Thomson Reuters and 
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. For loans or other 
financial products for which there are no established 
league tables, we count the amount that reflects Citi’s 
financial involvement in the deal. < Aligning Borrowing with Sustainability Goals
What if a company could tie its interest rate to 
achievement of its sustainability goals, directly 
connecting financial success to positive environ -
mental and social performance? ESG-linked loans, a 
relatively new loan financing product, allow compa -
nies to do just that, demonstrating a commitment to 
sustainable business practices.
This growing trend of ESG-linked loans within the 
investment-grade loan market provides a pricing 
incentive if certain sustainability targets are met 
— or, conversely, a pricing penalty if they are not. 
The ESG targets can be based on metrics commonly 
used by third-party analysts, such as ESG ratings, 
or they can be tailored to the borrower based on 
specific goals. The borrower and lender will deter -
mine a goal or a set of goals that apply throughout 
the life of the loan with intermittent annual goals 
to track progress. In addition, lenders will expect a 
robust ESG governance system to be put in place to 
ensure accountability to the loan structure.Such financings originated in Europe, where a 
number of loans have been structured to include an 
environmental component. In the U.S., this is still a 
nascent area, with only a small number of relevant 
transactions to date.
Citi has served as bookrunner and mandated lead 
arranger on several ESG-linked transactions in the 
European market. In December 2017, Citi acted as 
coordinating bookrunner, syndication bank and 
mandated lead arranger for a new € 600 million 
revolving credit facility for Stora Enso Oyj to replace 
its existing revolving credit facility. Based in Helsinki, 
Stora Enso is a leading global provider of renew -
able solutions in packaging, biomaterials, wooden 
constructions and paper. The company aims to 
replace fossil-fuel-based materials by innovating and 
developing new products and services made from 
wood and other renewable materials. The facility 
benefits from a “green” margin adjustment, which 
adjusts the initial margin according to Stora Enso’s 
performance against science-based targets (compli -
ant with the Science Based Targets Initiative) relating 
to the company’s greenhouse gas emissions. 
3 A league table is a competitive ranking of banks, companies, industries, geographies or other groups of entities ordered according to a metric  
(e.g., deal volume, number of deals). 50
Working Toward Our Goal
Citi draws on the diverse expertise of our global teams 
to provide our clients with innovative products and 
services that best capture opportunities to address 
climate challenges. Our Corporate Sustainability team 
works closely with contributing business units to track 
progress toward our $100 billion goal in the following 
business categories — Alternative Energy Banking and 
Financing, Green Bonds, Public Finance, Commodities, 
and Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. 
Alternative Energy Banking and Finance
Citi provides a full range of financing solutions for 
environmental projects globally, and we continue to 
develop innovative, end-to-end solutions to meet our 
clients’ unique financing needs. Our Alternative Energy 
Banking and Financing teams have developed exten -
sive expertise in financing solutions for a broad spec -
trum of renewable energy technologies, including wind, 
solar, geothermal and biomass. For larger, utility-scale 
projects, we are able to provide multiple services as a 
one-stop shop for our clients, including construction 
financing, commodities hedging and tax equity on a 
single deal. Citi’s approach to alternative energy and 
banking products has sparked increased client demand 
for across-the-board financing solutions.
$100B GOAL IN ACTION • ALTERNATIVE ENERGY BANKING AND FINANCE< Hornsea 1 Wind Project
Citi served as co-debt financial advisor, co-placement  
agent and sole export credit agency arranger 
to Ørsted (formerly DONG Energy) and Global 
Infrastructure Partners (GIP) on a £3.6 billion debt 
financing package for Hornsea 1, a greenfield UK 
offshore wind farm project located in the southern 
part of the North Sea. Hornsea 1 will be the world’s 
largest offshore wind farm when commissioned, with 
a total capacity of 1,218 megawatts, and will supply 
clean energy to more than 1 million UK homes. Citi 
led the structuring and placement of the debt 
financing — the largest-ever project financing in 
the global renewable sector — as co-debt financial 
advisor and co-placement agent. Citi also under -
wrote the £800 million export credit agency-backed 
facilities as sole arranger and sole initial lender. The debt financing package will partially fund the 
construction of the offshore wind farm, as well as 
support the £4.5 billion acquisition by GIP III Jupiter 
of a 50 percent stake in Hornsea 1, where Citi acted 
as exclusive sell-side merger and acquisition finan -
cial advisor to Ørsted in the sale process. “I’ve been in banking for 33 years, 
and I think we’ve seen an incredible 
evolution of the role that banks 
play in environmental and social 
issues today. We used to say, ‘We’re 
just a bank, what do you want us 
to do? We’re just here to facilitate 
economic opportunity.’ Today, 
our position has evolved to say, 
‘Because we’re a bank, let’s see 
what it is that we can do.’”
 —  Jamie Forese, President, Citigroup  
and CEO, Institutional Clients Group
Jamie Forese discussing financing sustainable growth 
at the 2018 Ceres Conference.
51
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
•  
Environmental 
Finance 
Green, Social and Sustainability Bonds
Citi was one of the largest underwriters of green, 
social and sustainability bonds globally in 2018. 
These transactions helped our clients raise more 
than $178 billion to meet their environmental, social 
and sustainability goals. 
In early 2018, Citi served as joint bookrunner and billing 
and delivery on the Republic of Poland’s € 2 billion  
dual-tranche green bond offering, formed of 10- and 
30-year tenors — the latter being the longest ever 
green bond issued by a sovereign. Also in 2018, 
the San Francisco City and County Public Utilities 
Commission issued the first green bond offering 
incorporating a put option. Citi served as senior 
manager. (Learn more on the next page.) 
Citi co-founded the Green Bond Principles, which 
provide issuers with guidelines encouraging 
transparency, and we are an active member of its 
Social Bond Working Group. As part of that working group, we worked on the release of the Social Bond 
Guidance document in 2016 to support the growth 
of the emerging markets for social bonds, which 
finance projects that produce clear socioeconomic 
benefits, and sustainable bonds, which support both 
environmental and social benefits. Citi has been an 
active player in these bond markets, and while social 
and sustainable bonds are not counted toward our 
$100 billion goal, which is focused on environmental 
finance, they are an important part of our growing 
sustainable finance business. 
Public Finance
National and subnational governments are often on 
the front lines in responding to climate change, and Citi 
provides financial solutions, including loans and bonds, 
to help them invest in clean water, transportation and 
energy infrastructure to meet the needs of their citi -
zens. For example, the San Francisco City and County 
Public Utilities Commission (SFPUC) issued more than 
$100B GOAL IN ACTION • GREEN, SOCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY BONDS< Republic of Indonesia Green Bond 
In February 2018, the Republic of Indonesia 
successfully priced a $1.25 billion five-year 
green Sukuk, the world's first green sovereign 
Sukuk offering. Sukuk are Sharia compliant 
instruments that do not involve the payment and 
receipt of interest, which is not permitted under 
Sharia principles.   
As the largest archipelagic country in the world, 
Indonesia plays a significant role in global efforts 
to combat climate change and preserve the envi -
ronment, especially its own extensive tropical rain forests. Indonesia has committed to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions by 29 percent by 2030 
and has pledged to make renewable energy one-  
quarter of its energy mix by 2025, double 
what it is today. Indonesia’s Green Bond and 
Green Sukuk Framework includes a broad range 
of sectors that promote the transition to a 
low-emission economy and climate-resilient 
growth, including climate mitigation, adapta -
tion and biodiversity. Citi served as joint lead 
manager on this landmark transaction. 
52
$594 million in revenue bonds, composed of approx -
imately $408 million in green certified bonds (Series 
2018A&C) and nearly $186 million in serial bonds (Series 
2018B). On behalf of the Commission, Citi served as 
senior manager in underwriting the approximately $180 
million Series C five-year, fixed-rate, green put bonds. 
Proceeds from the offering are expected to be used 
to fund selected aspects of the SFPUC Sewer System 
Improvement Project, including stormwater, flood resil -
ience, sewage treatment, wastewater and infrastructure 
upgrades, and are intended to address issues such as 
aging infrastructure, seismic reliability, rising sea levels 
and localized flooding. The offering represents the first 
green bond incorporating a put option. 
Citi’s community lending and investing activity also 
includes financing of affordable housing. LEED-certified 
affordable housing projects are counted toward our 
$100 billion goal. The affordable housing activity 
counted in 2018 served nearly 1,000 families. Commodities
Citi’s Commodities team and energy trading desk, 
Citigroup Energy Inc. (CEI), provides hedges for 
renewable energy project financing deals, helps 
clients obtain renewable energy credits and works on 
commodities derivatives. These services help enable 
our clients to achieve their financial and environ -
mental goals for renewable energy procurement. CEI 
has also played a role in helping Citi meet our goal 
to power our facilities with 100 percent renewable 
energy by 2020. 
In Texas, Citi provided a comprehensive financing 
solution, including combining construction loan 
financing, an 11-year physical power hedge, agency 
and trust services, and an unlevered tax equity part -
nership, for the Midway Wind project. In 2018, we also 
purchased renewable energy from this project. Learn 
more in the Operations section . 
$100B GOAL IN ACTION • PUBLIC FINANCE< Affordable Housing Revenue Bonds 
In June 2018, Citi senior managed a $201 million 
transaction for the New York State Housing 
Finance Agency to finance nine multi-family 
projects, accounting for more than 1,300 units of 
affordable housing across the state. About $117 
million of the bonds were designated as certified 
green bonds, meaning that the associated proj -
ects will meet or exceed certain ENERGY STAR® 
efficiency standards and qualify as “low-carbon 
buildings” under criteria set by the Climate Bonds 
Initiative. The sale was oversubscribed, with more 
than $406 million in orders. Learn more about 
affordable housing in the Communities section . $100B GOAL IN ACTION • COMMODITIES< Sourcing Renewable Power
In February 2018, CEI designed a wholesale power 
intermediation structure to enable QTS Realty 
Trust to source renewable power for its Irving, 
Texas, data center. The 10-year renewable energy 
sale combined an asset-specific physical power 
hedge with renewable energy credits from the 
$316 million Flat Top Wind Project, located about 
130 miles from Irving in Comanche, Texas. Citi 
Project & Infrastructure Finance, Alternative 
Energy Finance and Commodities jointly provided 
the construction loan and letter of credit facilities, 
tax equity and energy hedge for the Flat Top Wind 
project in 2017.
53
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
•  
Environmental 
Finance 
$100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal  
Financial Data*
Region 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL TOTAL  %
  North America  4.2  11.2  6.7  7.4  24.8  54.3 57%
    Europe, Middle East  
and Africa 2.4  4.1  7.8  6.7  9.5  30.4 32%
  Asia Pacific  0.2  0.1  0.5  2.3  1.8  5.0 5%
  Latin America  0.2  0.5  0.1  0.4  0.3  1.4 1%
  Multiple Regions  0.5  1.1  0.5  —     1.9  4.1 4%
Total  7.5  16.9  15.6  16.9  38.4  95.3 100%
Environmental Criteria
  Renewable Energy  4.9  11.6  9.6  10.9  24.4  61.3 64%
  Solar  0.8  2.1  0.6  4.9  1.6  10.0 10%
  Wind  3.0  7.9  8.6  4.4  7.3  31.2 33%
   Mixed Renewables  1.1  1.6  0.4  1.6  15.4  20.1 21%
  Energy Efficiency  0.1  0.3  0.3  0.1  0.0  0.9 1%
  Green Building  0.4  0.6  0.7  0.3  2.1  4.1 4%
    Sustainable 
Transportation 0.5  1.8  1.6  1.2  1.6  6.7 7%
    Water Quality  
and Conservation 0.4  1.2  2.8  1.4  5.3  11.1 12%
  Clean Technology  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.1  0.3 0%
   Multiple Criteria  1.1  1.4  0.5  2.9  4.9  10.8 11%
Total  7.5  16.9  15.6  16.9  38.4  95.3 100%
Business
    Alternative Energy 
Banking and Finance 4.2  11.0  9.0  9.2  24.1  57.5 60%
  Green Bonds** 1.8  1.8  1.4  4.4  6.7  16.0 17%
  Public Finance  0.7  3.2  4.3  2.9  7.3  18.5 19%
  Commodities  0.2  0.5  0.5  0.2  0.0  1.4 1%
    Consumer Banking and 
Commercial Banking 0.6  0.5  0.4  0.2  0.1  1.7 2%
Total  7.5  16.9  15.6  16.9  38.4  95.3 100%
  *  Figures may not sum to totals due to rounding. They may also differ from previous reporting due to 
third-party accounting revisions.
** Includes green portion of sustainability bonds when information is available.$57 B 
TOTAL TO DATE$95.3 B 
TOTAL TO DATE$95.3 B 
TOTAL TO DATE$95.3 B 
TOTAL TO DATE
$57 B 
TOTAL TO DATE$95.3 B 
TOTAL TO DATE$95.3 B 
TOTAL TO DATE$95.3 B 
TOTAL TO DATE
$57 B 
TOTAL TO DATE$95.3 B 
TOTAL TO DATE$95.3 B 
TOTAL TO DATE$95.3 B 
TOTAL TO DATEin billions of dollars, 2014–201854
in billions of dollars, 2014–2018Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved 
Through Our $100 Billion Goal
The $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal is 
about more than the dollar figure. We recognize that 
the real-world impacts of these investments are a 
crucial measure of success — for Citi, our clients and 
our communities. 
When we first developed our goal, we felt it was 
important to measure and understand the full scope 
of our work. Utilizing stakeholder feedback, we iden -
tified a range of impacts — greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions avoided, jobs supported and community 
benefits realized — that we are able to apply to a 
subset of the transactions counted toward the goal. 
We calculate these metrics where actual data or a 
reasonable proxy method can be obtained. There 
is no one universal way to measure these impacts, 
so we developed our approach following extensive 
research on a variety of best practices. 
This area of work continues to be an ongoing learning 
process for us at Citi. We have refined our methodology 
over the last several years as we work to better under -
stand the impacts associated with the activity that 
counts toward our goal. Overall, we take a conservative 
approach to reporting impacts and do not include deals 
in which we have limited transparency on transaction 
details. Our impact measurement methodology aligns 
with our accounting approach to report on impacts 
associated with our share of a transaction. To calculate environmental impacts, we developed 
models to estimate the GHG emissions avoided by a 
subset of the of transactions that contribute to the 
$100 billion goal — specifically, renewable energy 
financing, energy efficiency financing and public 
finance. The estimated 4 million metric tons of GHG 
emissions avoided as a result of our activities in 2018 
is the equivalent of removing more than 845,000 
cars from the road for one year.
For social impacts, our primary metric is the number 
of jobs that are supported by a segment of activity 
counted toward the goal, specifically Citi’s financing 
of U.S.-based renewable energy projects and public 
finance activity. We developed a model that esti -
mates our contribution to supporting job creation 
based on an approach used by economists and public 
policy experts. These calculations are based on 
specific investment and expenditure profiles tied to 
data aggregated from a number of sources. For 2018, 
we estimate that more than 37,000 direct, indirect 
and induced jobs are supported by the financing we 
provide to our clients.
For the first time, in 2018, we calculated our direct, 
indirect and induced impact on the U.S. gross 
domestic product (GDP). We estimate that our 2018 
financing activities have contributed approximately 
$8.2 billion to U.S. GDP.
55
SOLUTIONS  
FOR IMPACT
Inclusive 
and Resilient 
Communities
•  
Environmental 
Finance 
Impact Data*
Environmental Impacts 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL
Avoided GHG  
Emissions (mt)1,360,092  1,740,659  325,676  1,058,809  3,987,444  8,472,680 
Renewable Energy 
Project Finance 1,294,788 1,590,612 180,739 1,057,022 3,922,551 8,045,712
Energy Efficiency 
Finance60,061 145,524 140,149 - 63,229 408,963
Public Finance  2,224  1,672  1,453  1,246  1,664 8,258
Consumer/
Commercial Banking 3,019  2,851  3,335  541 - 9,746
Renewable Energy 
Capacity Added (MW)563 869 278 619 3,154 5,483
Social Impacts 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL
Jobs Supported 11,574 29,494 30,140 22,995 37,364 131,567
Renewable Energy 
Project Finance4,870 8,069 4,378 4,357 5,098 26,772
Public Finance** 6,704 21,425 25,762 18,638 32,266 104,795
People Serviced by 
Water Quality and 
Conservation Projects 211,346  6,916,113 28,831,321 7,617,037 12,363,540 55,939,357
Families Serviced by 
Affordable Housing 
Activity1,237 1,004 1,166 1,340 956 5,703
Trips on Transit System 
Projects (in billions)-  3.5B  3.1B  4.2B  3.2B 14.0B
 * Figures may not sum to total due to rounding.
 ** The 2017 amount of Public Finance jobs supported is revised from previous reporting to accurately reflect our methodology.  56
  What’s Ahead
As we approach completion of our $100 Billion 
Environmental Finance Goal, it’s abundantly clear that 
the scale of climate change, and its related impacts on 
society, necessitates significant investments across 
all industries. Based on the latest information from 
the IPCC, we anticipate these investments going 
beyond financing low-carbon energy, technology and 
infrastructure to include climate-friendly land use in 
the forestry and agriculture sectors — areas that are 
gaining greater attention and understanding from 
both scientific and industry players and that will need 
significant financial investment in the decade ahead. If 
we’re going to contribute to both mitigating the worst 
potential effects of global warming and increasing 
our collective resilience to the expected changes, we 
must quicken the pace of transition across all sectors 
to deliver the most scientifically and financially sound 
strategy we can.
This transition requires that we look at new ways we 
can leverage our financial resources. In early 2019, 
Citi issued our inaugural green bond — a € 1 billion,  
three-year, fixed-rate note. The bond will fund 
renewable energy, sustainable transportation, 
water quality and conservation, energy efficiency 
and green building projects financed as part of 
our $100 billion goal. Since co-founding the Green 
Bond Principles in 2014, Citi has been a leader in 
the development of the green bond market, and 
the issuance of this bond enhances our green bond 
expertise and furthers our commitment to the 
continued growth of the market. 
It also requires that we continue to help lead the 
dialogue around climate change. We are working 
with our investors to determine next steps in under -
standing climate risks and opportunities as part of 
our TCFD journey. We also continue to build on our advocacy through our support of initiatives like We 
Are Still In, our partnerships with NGOs such as Ceres 
and the World Resources Institute, and engagement 
with trade organizations like the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce, with which we and other companies have 
been engaging on climate-related policy positions. 
Through the use of our corporate voice, we work to 
encourage positive action and address societal chal -
lenges in the face of rapid change.
< TCFD and Climate Opportunities
Citi supports the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and its recommen -
dations for improved disclosures of the financial 
impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities. 
The focus on climate opportunities as well as 
risks is well-aligned with our Sustainable Progress 
Strategy. Our environmental finance activities 
reduce climate change impacts and create environ -
mental solutions in collaboration with our clients 
and other stakeholders. 
In November 2018, we released our first climate disclo -
sure report, Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future , 
in response to the recommendations set forth in the 
TCFD. The report considers how physical risk (related 
to extreme weather) and transition risk (related to 
climate policy and rapid technology changes) could 
impact clients and the broader financial system. The 
report also highlights opportunities for Citi to support 
clients by making investments in clean energy, infra -
structure and technology.
For more on how we are responding to the TCFD 
recommendations and managing climate risks and 
opportunities, see the Citizenship at Citi section .57
H o wW eD o
Business
IN THIS SECTION
pg. 59 Environmental and Social Risk Management
pg. 67  Human Rights
pg. 75  Operations and Supply Chain
pg. 91  Digital Innovation
pg. 101  Talent and Diversity
pg. 121  Ethics and Culture58FPO photo
59
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
• 
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Environmental and  
Social Risk Management
The financing decisions we make, and our assessment and 
management of environmental and social risks, are integral to 
acting responsibly as we enable growth and economic progress. 
Our risk management and client engagement activities help us 
evaluate financial opportunities. And, importantly, they give us the 
opportunity to promote to our clients the adoption of international 
best practices in environmental and social impact management. 
Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) 
is one of the three pillars of our Sustainable Progress 
Strategy .1 Our ESRM-related activities help us and our 
clients navigate a constantly evolving risk landscape 
in order to make responsible decisions.
Our ESRM Policy
Citi finances billions of dollars in transactions for a 
wide variety of clients and projects, many of which 
have potential environmental and social impacts. 
We carefully evaluate and consider these risks when 
making financing decisions on individual, project-  
related transactions and during annual reviews and 
portfolio assessments.
Our internal ESRM Policy, summarized publicly in 
our Environmental and Social Policy Framework ,  
helps us responsibly finance projects and activities 
by effectively engaging our clients on sustainability 
best practices. The policy covers a broad scope 
of financial products and client sectors and sets 
standards for how we assess client impacts on air 
quality, water quality, climate change, biodiversity, 
local communities, labor and other environmental 
and social issues. We established our comprehensive 
ESRM Policy in 2003 — the first U.S.-based financial 
institution to do so — and we continue to evolve  
our approach in response to emerging risks and new 
product development. For example, during 2018, we integrated new policy 
commitments related to the sale of firearms into our 
ESRM Policy (learn more about our U.S. Commercial 
Firearms Policy in the Human Rights section .) We 
also formalized a policy commitment restricting 
financing for the construction or expansion of coal-
fired power plants (learn more in the Reducing Credit 
Exposure to Coal section ).    
Policy Implementation
Our centralized team of ESRM specialists evaluates 
all transactions that trigger a review according 
to our ESRM Policy. We also rely on employees 
throughout our organization globally, such as our 
ESRM Champions, to help spot potential risks. This 
network approach greatly enhances the global cover -
age capacity of our centralized specialist team. The 
ESRM team works collaboratively and shares infor -
mation and best practices in bimonthly network calls 
that help support and strengthen the entire network.
Citi’s ESRM team categorizes the project-related 
transactions they review as A, B or C, with A indicating 
the highest risk. The categorization is based on the 
magnitude of potential adverse environmental and 
social impacts associated with the project and is 
aligned with the Equator Principles and International 
Finance Corporation categorization. For general 
corporate purposes transactions under our ESRM 
1 For performance against our Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard, please see the report Appendices .60
Policy (categorized as “general review”), we evaluate 
a client’s environmental and social policies and perfor -
mance, as well as its commitment and capacity to 
manage environmental and social issues. Higher-risk, 
project-related transactions receive in-depth reviews 
against applicable standards by independent envi -
ronmental and social consultants. If gaps are found 
between a client’s environmental and social plans, 
policies or practices and international standards, we 
develop an Environmental and Social Action Plan 
(ESAP) to fill the gaps. As a condition of financing, 
we require the client to implement the ESAP, and we 
monitor progress over time. 
For example, during due diligence for the potential 
financing of a new U.S. wind farm, we identified 
possible risks related to an endangered bird species. 
The risk was a low probability but could have a 
high impact, if realized. As a condition of financ -
ing, we required the project sponsor to develop a 
species-specific operations protocol to: 
• Train the wind farm staff to identify the species in 
the visual vicinity of the project
• Develop a communications plan to report the 
observation to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
and relevant state agency 
• Define circumstances that would require curtail -
ment, including specific protocols to implement if 
the species is present
Our ESRM Policy is most effective in cases like this 
one, when we are considering financing projects and 
have the influence to include financing conditions 
requiring tangible actions to improve environmental 
and social outcomes. 
In some cases, however, we must decline to participate 
in a transaction because we do not believe we can 
adequately address the environmental and social risks 
through mitigation measures or the risks are too high. 
In 2018, we evaluated an opportunity to finance an 
oil and gas development project that our initial ESRM 
screening indicated would have impacts on the biodi -
versity of a natural habitat and on local Indigenous 
Peoples. While the project sponsor was using industry- 
leading biodiversity management approaches and 
making sincere attempts to constructively engage 
with the indigenous communities, we did not think 
the project would be able to obtain the free, prior and 
informed consent of the affected Indigenous Peoples, 
and we therefore declined to move forward with financing discussions. Also in 2018, we declined three 
transactions related to project and equipment financ -
ing for new coal-fired power projects, in anticipation of 
the rollout of our new policy commitments restricting 
financing for new coal-fired power capacity.  
Applying our ESRM Policy helps us identify additional 
risks beyond traditional credit risks, guides decisions 
for how to evaluate future transactions related to 
companies or projects within high-risk sectors, and 
presents opportunities for us to advise clients on 
solutions to thematic risks. To learn more about 
our ESRM Policy, including Areas of High Caution, 
sector-specific standards and policy prohibitions, see 
our Environmental and Social Policy Framework .
 GRI 102-44< ESRM Champions Are Key  
to Mitigating Environmental and  
Social Risk
Citi’s ESRM Champions are employees with regional 
expertise and additional ESRM training, who serve 
as a bridge between our local banking teams and 
our global ESRM team. They also assist in training 
local, internal teams about our ESRM Policy and 
provide important regional insights that improve 
our ability to make responsible lending decisions. 
For example, during 2018, our ESRM Champion in 
Mexico led the development of an environmental 
and social risk screening tool that simplifies the 
detection of sensitive areas in the vicinity of oil, gas, 
mining, power and real estate projects in Mexico. 
The tool uses postal codes and public databases to 
quickly map and identify natural protected areas, 
priority sites for biodiversity conservation, cultur -
ally significant and archaeological sites, as well as 
lands owned or occupied by Indigenous Peoples. In 
addition to maps, the tool provides general recom -
mendations for more comprehensive environmental 
and social reviews. The tool has been adopted by 
the Mexican Banking Association, and voluntary 
implementation by member banks will begin in 2019. 61
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
• 
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    find alt photo
The palm oil industry has many environmental and 
social challenges and is often linked to deforestation 
and associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
degradation of endangered species’ habitats and 
human rights risks. Many palm plantations have been 
established on peat swamp forests, a particularly 
carbon-rich type of forest that, when drained or 
burned, releases even more GHGs into the atmo -
sphere than other types of tropical forests. In addi -
tion to these concerning climate impacts, the large-
scale conversion of tropical rain forests into palm oil 
plantations can adversely impact biodiversity, such 
as in Borneo and Sumatra, where orangutan popu -
lations have been left without food and shelter and 
have become even more vulnerable to poachers due 
to deforestation. 
Citi has been an active member of the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) since 2010 and currently 
serves on the RSPO Complaints Panel. We require  
our palm oil clients to become members of the RSPO 
and regularly engage them on their progress toward  
100 percent RSPO certification. In 2018 this engage -
ment included discussing innovative ways for one 
client to address its deforestation liabilities under 
RSPO requirements that ultimately led to their 
establishment of a tropical rainforest conservation 
fund and an orangutan conservation and rehabili -
tation area in Indonesia. We also engaged with the 
founders of a new conservation fund that develops 
conservation and restoration projects to offset palm 
oil plantation impacts and promoted their services to 
our clients and peer banks.In 2018, RSPO members passed new Principles and 
Criteria for the Production of Sustainable Palm Oil , 
which take a strong position on zero deforestation 
and the adoption of a decent living wage, as defined 
by the Global Living Wage Coalition, for all palm 
oil workers. The conservation and restoration of 
existing high-conservation value and high-carbon 
stock forested land, which would otherwise be turned 
into palm oil plantations, is helping to mitigate envi -
ronmental impacts and preserve critical orangutan 
habitat. Citi supports this step toward more sustain -
able palm oil and is integrating the new criteria 
into our evaluation of clients’ operations. We also 
enhanced our Palm Oil Sector Standard questionnaire 
with new questions related to systemic labor risks 
on palm oil plantations, with a particular emphasis 
on child and forced labor. This addition will improve 
our ability to evaluate and address labor risks in our 
clients’ business practices directly.
At the same time, our partnership with the RSPO 
allows us to collaborate broadly and contribute to 
worker welfare in less direct, but no less import -
ant, ways. For example, our service on the RSPO 
Complaints Panel allowed us to show support for and 
encourage the RSPO to partner with Ulula — a mobile 
technology platform that facilitates reporting of 
worker welfare issues, monitoring of working condi -
tions and employee engagement. The RSPO and Ulula 
began working in 2018 to launch the platform in Sabah, 
Malaysia, and across four estates in Indonesia.Working to Improve Habitat 
Conservation and Labor Conditions 
in the Palm Oil Industry62
Monitoring the Changing  
Risk Landscape
The ESRM team uses a number of methods to proac -
tively scan the changing risk landscape for new, 
emerging risks as well as risks with increased prom -
inence and prevalence. Through internal research 
and inputs from third-party environmental and social 
data providers, we monitor relevant developments in 
high-risk industries and stakeholder areas of concern 
to flag emerging issues. This ongoing monitoring 
keeps us responsive to evolving risks, allows us to 
raise awareness within Citi about emerging issues 
and helps us identify clients that are impacted by 
these emerging risks for engagement. 
Our risk monitoring feeds into our ESRM Watchlist 
process, through which we flag individual companies 
based on their track record, sensitive or controver -
sial assets, third-party analyst scores and negative 
news. In 2018, for example, Citi added a large indus -
trial company to the ESRM Watchlist due to concerns 
about environmental contamination and the result -
ing health concerns in nearby communities that 
led to violent protests. The Watchlist designation 
prompted the ESRM team to conduct enhanced due 
diligence of a proposed transaction and to proac -
tively engage with the client on environmental reme -
diation, stakeholder engagement and community 
grievance measures. Through the risk monitoring 
of the Watchlist process, the ESRM team continues 
to track developments with the company regarding 
litigation, regulatory inspections and community 
engagement and to drive continuous improvement 
through ongoing client engagement. Client Engagement
Engaging our clients is an important part of our 
ESRM due diligence process. Initially, these engage -
ments were tied only to specific, project-related 
financial transactions and the associated envi -
ronmental and social risks and mitigation efforts. 
However, as we have developed sector-specific risk 
management approaches over the years, we have 
added corporate-level reviews and engagements for 
a number of sectors. These sector-specific risk review 
processes encourage dialogue between Citi and our 
clients about the material environmental and social 
risks associated with their operations, enabling us to 
develop a better understanding of prevailing industry 
practices and our clients’ performance.
During 2018, we prioritized these broader engage -
ments with a number of our North American clients 
in the oil and gas industry, particularly as more 
and more seek to proactively engage their banks 
and investors on their environmental, social and 
governance performance. We discussed their envi -
ronmental, health and safety management policies, 
stakeholder engagement approaches and climate 
impact reduction strategies, as well as their efforts 
to improve transparency on these matters. We also 
shared the evolving approaches banks are taking 
to evaluate their clients, as well as information on 
what Citi is doing in response to the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendations.
< Collaborating to Update  
Industry Standards 
During 2018, Citi actively participated in the Equator 
Principles  update process, helping to design the next 
iteration of this global standard for banks evaluating 
environmental and social risks. Citi participated in 
multiple working groups, including those examining 
social risks, climate risks, biodiversity and the scope 
of covered transactions. This work is ongoing, with the 
final, updated standard expected during 2019.  
63
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
• 
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Climate-Related Risk
Climate change is one of the most critical issues 
facing our society today. Unless actions are taken 
to transition to a low-carbon economy and address 
climate-related risks, the impacts of climate change are 
only expected to increase. As a financier of the global 
economy, we are keenly aware that climate change 
is a serious risk that affects many of our clients. In 
response, we are increasingly focused on how to assess 
the impacts of climate change on our portfolios.
Climate Risk Analysis
Citi has been conducting various types of climate risk 
analysis over the past few years. In 2016, we under -
took our first climate-related stress test. We collabo -
rated with the Natural Capital Finance Alliance and the 
UN Environment Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) to pilot 
a drought stress-testing tool to assess the resilience 
of several lending portfolios to different drought 
scenarios in the U.S. and Mexico. We followed this up 
in 2017 with a stranded assets analysis to understand 
the likelihood that upstream oil and gas assets in our 
energy portfolio would lose value because of a carbon 
price or tax and how that would impact clients’ credit 
quality. More information about these analyses are 
available in our 2017 Global Citizenship Report .
Building on this work, we partnered with 15 other 
leading global and regional banks and UNEP FI on a 
pilot project to conduct climate scenario analysis in 
alignment with the TCFD recommendations released 
in June 2017. We used the methodologies that this 
working group developed to assess the potential 
financial impacts of transition risk and physical 
risk associated with climate change to understand 
climate-related risks and opportunities in Citi’s lending 
portfolios for U.S. utilities and U.S. and Canada oil and 
gas exploration and production. Various teams within 
Citi’s risk management function, including our ESRM 
and credit risk teams, were involved in conducting our climate scenario analyses, which explored how clients’ 
creditworthiness changes under three temperature 
warming scenarios: 1.5°C, 2°C and 4°C.
Following our analysis, Citi published our first TCFD 
report, Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future , in 
November 2018.  A summary of the report is included 
in the Citizenship at Citi section of this report, and a 
TCFD index is included in the Appendices. 
Reducing Credit Exposure to Coal
The shift away from fossil fuels in pursuit of renew -
able energy will have a significant effect on both 
coal-fired power production and coal mining. Since 
2015, Citi has had a commitment to reduce our 
credit exposure to the coal mining industry. The 
effort applies globally to companies generating a 
64
majority of their revenues from coal mining activi -
ties and to coal-focused subsidiaries of diversified 
mining companies. To deliver on this commitment, 
we have conducted corporate-level risk reviews for 
existing and prospective mining clients who derive 
more than half of their revenues from coal. Over the 
past three years, we have successfully reduced our 
credit exposure. 
Furthermore, in 2018, we updated our ESRM Policy 
with a new restriction on financing for the construc -
tion or expansion of coal-fired power plants. This 
includes transactions supporting the supply of all 
components, equipment, materials and services 
directly required for the construction of such 
plants. Exceptions may be considered for proposed 
ultra-supercritical plants that address situations of 
energy poverty (i.e., in countries where the national 
electrification rate is reported as 90 percent or 
below in the annual Energy Progress Report). Any 
exception we may consider financing would go 
through independent analysis to verify that the 
proposed project or expansion aligns with the host 
country’s Nationally Determined Contribution under 
the Paris Agreement. 
In addition, Citi will review our power-sector clients 
with coal-fired generation annually to evaluate their 
GHG reduction strategies and their management of 
risks and opportunities related to a low-carbon tran -
sition. We will request information about GHG emis -
sions related to owned generation and purchased 
power; climate-related risks and opportunities 
impacting the client’s business strategy, including, 
if available, a 2°C climate warming scenario impact 
analysis; and a description of the company’s current 
efforts and future strategic plans to support a 
transition to a low-carbon energy future, including 
diversification options to shift away from coal-fired 
power sources and quantitative targets for reducing 
GHG emissions.Enhancing Our Training
Each year, we train key risk and banking personnel 
on our ESRM Policy, including in-depth discussions 
on environmental and social risks relevant to certain 
regions and sectors, Equator Principles imple -
mentation and Citi Sector Standards. The training 
also includes emerging risks and guidance to help 
employees recognize environmental and social risk 
in transactions — ranging from climate change risks 
to human rights risks to labor concerns and more. 
During 2018, we undertook an extensive effort to 
revamp and relaunch our online employee training 
modules related to the Equator Principles and our 
ESRM Policy, as well as Citi's new firearms policy 
in the U.S. In total, more than 900 Citi employees 
underwent ESRM training during the year. 
  What’s Ahead 
Environmental and social risks are constantly evolv -
ing. In response, we will continue our ongoing review 
and risk analysis at every level — across sectors, 
clients and individual transactions. We will also 
continue to use our Watchlist to further integrate 
risk analysis into our day-to-day business processes, 
while at the same time staying abreast of evolving 
risks and enhancing our policies. As the world seeks 
to mitigate the impact of climate change and its 
associated risks, we are continually learning about 
emerging best practices for financial institutions to 
evaluate climate-related risks. In support of ongoing 
reporting and risk analysis, we will consider our next 
steps in addressing the TCFD recommendations in 
consultation with investors and key stakeholders. 
Our ESRM team is also partnering with colleagues in 
Citi’s Technology Group to understand how artificial 
intelligence and machine learning, as well as other 
forms of advanced data management, could help 
expand our capacities and optimize our approach to 
environmental and social risk management.65
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
• 
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
1
Category A1
Category A2018 Projects Covered  
by the Equator Principles
As part of our commitment to the Equator Principles 
(EP), we report annually on our implementation.
Category A  — Projects likely to have potential 
significant adverse social or environmental 
impacts that are diverse, irreversible or 
unprecedented
Category B  — Projects likely to have poten -
tial limited adverse social or environmental 
impacts that are few in number, generally 
site-specific, largely reversible and readily 
addressed through mitigation measures
Category C  — Projects likely to have minimal  
or no social or environmental impacts.CBAFunded EP Project  
Finance Loans
Funded Project Finance  
Loans BreakdownFunded Project-Related Corporate  
and Bridge Loans BreakdownFunded EP Project-Related  
Corporate and Bridge Loans
By Sector A B CTotal
Infrastructure - 1 - 1
Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 1 2 - 3
Power — Gas - 1 - 1
Power — Wind - 1 - 1By Sector A B CTotal
Chemicals - 1 - 1
Infrastructure - 1 - 1
Manufacturing - 2 - 2
Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 1 - - 1
Power — Wind - 2 - 2
By Region A B CTotal
Asia Pacific - - - 0
Europe - - - 0
Latin America - 1 - 1
Middle East and Africa 1 - - 1
U.S. and Canada - 4 - 4By Region A B CTotal
Asia Pacific - - - 0
Europe - 1 - 1
Latin America - 1 - 1
Middle East and Africa 1 1 - 2
U.S. and Canada - 3 - 3
By Country Designation A B CTotal
Designated* - 4 - 4
Non-designated** 1 1 - 2By Country Designation A B CTotal
Designated* - 4 - 4
Non-designated** 1 2 - 3
By Independent Review A B CTotal
Yes 1 4 - 5
No - 1 - 1By Independent Review A B CTotal
Yes 1 2 - 3
No - 4 - 45
Category B6
Category B
0
Category C0
Category C
Total = 6 Total = 7
 * Designated Countries as defined by the Equator Principles are high-income OECD countries. See the Equator Principles website for more information.
 **  Non-designated Countries as defined by the Equator Principles are all non-OECD countries and all OECD countries not designated as high income.  Citi had no EP Project Finance Advisories in 2018. 66
59411
382452
114
58
141
3930
148
34
144
2635
113
56
212
36A
B
C
GR*
NOT
CATEGORIZED
OtherPower (Including Renewables)Oil, Gas & PetrochemMetals & MiningManufacturing and IndustrialsInfrastructure & TransportationForestry, Palm Oil, Pulp & Paper
0 50 100 150Project Finance LoansLetters of Credit & GuaranteesEP Covered LoansDebt & Equity UnderwritingCorporate or Govt LoanAnnual credit reviewAdvisoriesBy Region Total Transactions Receiving ESRM Review
By Sector
By Product TypeTransactions Receiving ESRM Review
Forestry, Palm Oil, Pulp and Paper
Infrastructure and Transportation
Manufacturing and Industrials
Metals and Mining
Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals
Power (Including Renewables)
Other
Advisories
Annual Credit Reviews
Corporate or Government Loans
Debt and Equity Underwriting
EP Covered Projects and Corporate Loans
Letters of Credit and Guarantees
Other (e.g., equity, derivatives, etc.)2016 2017 2018
2 / 110
U.S. and  
Canada
17 / 126
Latin  
America
7 / 41
Middle East 
and Africa
0 / 17
Global
5 / 103
Asia  
Pacific
4 / 55
Europe
 *  General Review (GR) is used for corporate reviews and 
transactions for general corporate purposes.
For more information on our ESRM Policy, including how we categorize loans, visit our Environmental and Social Policy Framework.
Citi received external assurance of our Equator Principles data from SGS. For our SGS Assurance Statement, see the Assurance section.2|33
6|69
1|24
6|80
14|117
6|73
0|56# of Category A |Total
35|452
# of Category A |Total
1|4
1|85
6|190
1|51
24|46
2|35
0|41The ESRM team is consulted in the early stages of potential transactions. These numbers show 
transactions screened by the ESRM team, regardless of whether they proceeded to financial close.67
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
• 
H u m a n Ri g hts        
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
 Ethics and  
Culture    
Human Rights
We conduct human rights risk analysis and due diligence and regularly 
engage stakeholders to ensure that human rights considerations 
are taken into account across our business. Our policies and 
commitments to respect human rights, such as our Statement on 
Human Rights , help protect our employees, provide guidance to our 
suppliers and inform our business decisions — including what we 
choose to finance and the conditions we place on that financing. Each 
new transaction or client engagement that raises a human rights risk 
allows us to learn more about the challenges different industries face 
in respecting human rights and gives us an opportunity to enhance 
our practices and those of our clients. 
Our Commitment to 
Respect Human Rights
Citi is committed to respecting human rights 
wherever we do business, regardless of the degree 
to which governments are upholding their duty to 
protect, respect and fulfill human rights. We engage 
human rights experts, clients and peers to help 
implement our respect for human rights in line with 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights  — a global framework for preventing and 
addressing the risk of adverse impacts on human 
rights linked to business activity. The UN Guiding 
Principles draw upon existing international human 
rights instruments whose principles we endorsed 
years ago, such as those in the UN Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the International 
Labour Organization’s Core Conventions regarding 
child labor, forced labor, freedom of association, 
the right to organize and bargain collectively, and 
equal pay and nondiscrimination in the workforce. 
To increase transparency, we have prepared our 
Global Citizenship Report in accordance with the UN 
Guiding Principles Reporting Framework for the last 
three years (see this year’s index ).Citi regularly updates our policies and practices 
to strengthen our human rights due diligence. 
During the development and subsequent updates 
of our Statement on Human Rights, which we first 
adopted in 2007, we engaged internal and external 
stakeholders to help assess our actual and potential 
adverse human rights impacts and to identify the 
most salient human rights risks faced by our employ -
ees, workers connected to our supply chain and 
individuals who might be impacted by our clients’ 
operations. We published the most recent update to 
our Statement on Human Rights in November 2018. 
Highlights of that update include:
• An expanded list of salient human rights risks, 
including longstanding issues and emerging risks 
that have grown in prominence over the last 
several years 
• Additional information about how we identify and 
prioritize salient human rights risks, our due dili -
gence processes and our efforts to respect human 
rights throughout our value chain 
• Reference to our new policy commitments on 
commercial firearms in the U.S., including military 
equipment financing, which prohibits the financing 
or shipment of lethal military equipment, including 
cluster munitions68
• Updated language for our Indigenous Peoples 
consultation and consent requirements to reflect 
changes we made to our Environmental and Social 
Risk Management (ESRM) Policy in 2017 
• Recognition of the importance of human rights 
defenders in due diligence efforts and our aspira -
tion to raise concerns with clients when allegations 
are made regarding the repression of defenders in 
connection with client operations
• A new section to address access to effective 
remedy, including as it relates to our operations and 
role as an employer and as it relates to impacts that 
occur through our business relationships with clients 
Our handling of salient human rights risks is regu -
larly communicated to senior management and our 
Board of Directors. For more information about our 
governance of citizenship issues, including human 
rights, see the Citizenship Governance at Citi section .In addition to our formal Statement on Human 
Rights, Citi’s ESRM Policy, adopted in 2003 and 
summarized in our Environmental and Social Policy 
Framework , guides our approach to assessing envi -
ronmental and social issues related to financing our 
clients’ business activities. For more information 
about our ESRM Policy and related due diligence 
processes, see the Environmental and Social Risk 
Management section .
 GRI 102-44
Our Salient Human Rights Risks 
Human rights is one of our most material citizenship 
issues . We have spent more than a decade working 
on the most salient human rights risks related to 
our business — those that pose the greatest risk 
to people — including the activities of our clients 
Human Rights Risks Citi's 
EmployeesSuppliers’  
EmployeesCustomers  
and ClientsThose Affected by  
Clients’ Projects
Conflict risk
Indigenous Peoples
Labor practices (including  
discrimination and modern slavery)
Resettlement
Security practices
Adequate standard of living;  
right to property
Discrimination in provision  
of financial services
Diversity and inclusion
Information security; privacySalient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder Impacts
This table illustrates which stakeholders could be impacted by the human rights risks we have identified as most 
salient to our company, including risks related to our own operations and the activities of our clients. Shaded risks 
are those that were most recently identified as salient in the 2018 update of our Statement on Human Rights. 
Additional context about these risks and the due diligence processes we have in place to identify and mitigate 
human rights risks in our value chain can be found in the Statement .69
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
• 
H u m a n Ri g hts        
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
 Ethics and  
Culture    
and other business partners. We identified most of 
these risks under our ESRM Policy as “Areas of High 
Caution” several years before the advent of the 
UN Guiding Principles. To identify these areas, we 
focused on the most severe potential risks posed to 
people by our clients’ activities, particularly in the 
context of project finance. Our work to address these 
risks has included helping to found and govern the 
Equator Principles  framework to enhance and stan -
dardize risk management across the banking sector, 
establishing an internal ESRM team, and developing 
our risk identification and mitigation policies and 
procedures. (See page 71 for more about how we 
manage these risks.) 
While our formal risk management processes give 
us more leverage when we are directly financing a 
project, we also identify and address human rights 
risks that could arise across our value chain. With 
the latest update to our Statement on Human Rights, 
we have formally recognized many of those issues 
as salient human rights risks for our company, 
including discrimination in employment practices 
and the provision of financial services; adequate 
standard of living and right to property; the need to 
safeguard the privacy of information shared with us 
by our employees and customers; and more. Citi has 
longstanding policies, procedures and programs to 
address these issues.  Respecting the Human 
Rights of Our Employees
Every Citi employee is expected to adhere to our 
Code of Conduct , which includes a commitment to 
human rights, and to participate in relevant training. 
Our Code of Conduct prohibits unlawful discrimina -
tion, harassment and other behaviors that infringe 
on individual rights. This policy applies to all employ -
ees, as well as to suppliers, clients and community 
partners globally.
Diversity and inclusion issues are not always 
discussed in terms of human rights, but they are 
essential to human dignity, which human rights aim 
to protect. Respect for diversity and inclusion is a 
high priority wherever we operate and can become 
a particular concern in countries where there is no 
legal protection against discrimination based on 
gender, gender identity, race, ethnicity, age, religion, 
physical or mental disability or medical condition, 
or sexual orientation, in addition to a range of 
other essential characteristics inherent to identity 
and personhood. Citi prohibits discrimination and 
harassment of our employees in all forms regardless 
of whether or not individual protections are legally 
mandated in the countries and communities where 
we operate. In fact, we know that even in locations 
where anti-discrimination laws exist, there is still a 
need for companies to ensure they are doing their 
part to respect individual rights.
In 2018, recognizing a need to increase diversity 
at all levels of our company, we established goals 
to increase the percentage of female colleagues 
globally and black colleagues in the U.S. in roles 
ranging from assistant vice president to managing 
director. Citi also signed the Business Statement 
for Transgender Equality , and we began expanding 
insurance coverage and other benefits, already 
available to LGBT+ partners in the U.S., to LGBT+ 
partners globally wherever such benefits are permit -
ted by law. Learn more about diversity and inclusion 
at Citi in the Talent and Diversity section . 
70
We work to provide a respectful and inclusive work 
environment, and we investigate and take action on 
all alleged violations. We encourage our employees 
with concerns to use Citi’s grievance mechanism, the 
Ethics Hotline.  The hotline is open to external parties 
and available in several formats and languages.
Freedom of Association
While the financial services industry is not heavily 
unionized, we do have unions or work councils 
in many of the countries where we operate. 
Approximately 12 percent of our employee population 
is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We 
engage directly with our employees and through 
these associations to discuss issues such as health 
and safety, remuneration, work hours, training, 
career development, work time flexibility and equal 
opportunity. Information related to freedom of 
association is communicated to employees through 
various mediums, including employee handbooks, our 
intranet and employee emails.
 GRI 102-41
Extending Respect  
for Human Rights 
Through Our Suppliers 
and Partners 
Our nondiscrimination policies extend to Citi’s 
and the Citi Foundation’s philanthropic activity 
and to Citi’s suppliers. We do not provide funding 
to organizations that discriminate on the basis of 
personal characteristics, such as gender, race and 
sexual orientation, among others. Our suppliers are 
expected to adhere to Citi standards, including those 
related to human rights, as outlined in our Statement 
of Supplier Principles and in our Supplier Standards. 
These expectations are reinforced by our Corporate 
Responsibility Questionnaire (CRQ), which helps our procurement team determine how well potential and 
current suppliers manage environmental, social and 
governance issues, including human rights issues. 
In 2018, we released our second UK Modern Slavery 
Act transparency statement . The statement summa -
rizes our approach to identifying and mitigating the 
risks of modern slavery in our operations — including 
client transactions — and in our supply chain. It 
covers information about our governance and poli -
cies related to modern slavery, risk assessment and 
due diligence processes, and training. In our latest 
statement, we provided a great deal of transparency 
related to our activities and assessments, including 
a breakdown by risk level and sector of the findings 
of a 2017 risk assessment of our Tier 1 suppliers at 
certain spend thresholds in the Europe, Middle East 
and Africa (EMEA) region. In 2018, we followed up 
on this risk assessment to engage with the suppliers 
deemed of greatest risk based on the combination 
of their sector and geographic location to better 
understand their approach to managing these risks. 
Our CRQ for the EMEA region, which we send to all 
Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers regardless of spend, also 
now includes questions specific to modern slavery 
concerns, and we are planning to implement these 
questions across other regions as well. 
The work we do to fight modern slavery throughout 
our value chain, along with our related reporting, 
policies, due diligence and risk assessments, demon -
strates Citi’s commitment to SDG 8 , which aims 
to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable 
economic growth, full and productive employment 
and decent work for all . In particular, our work in 
these areas addresses target 8.7 , which includes 
a mandate to eradicate forced labor, end modern 
slavery and human trafficking and end child labor in 
all its forms.
SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
As with our employees, suppliers are encouraged to 
use Citi’s Ethics Hotline to raise concerns. For more 
information on our supply chain, see the Operations 
and Supply Chain section .71
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
• 
H u m a n Ri g hts        
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
 Ethics and  
Culture    
Respecting Human 
Rights in Our  
Financing Decisions
The challenge of effectively evaluating human rights 
risks related to our clients and the projects we 
finance is significant. We work diligently to meet this 
challenge and respect the human rights of the indi -
viduals and communities impacted by the projects 
we finance.
Our U.S. Commercial Firearms Policy, adopted in 
2018, is one example of how Citi can have an influ -
ence on the protection of human rights. Under this 
policy, we require clients or partners that are U.S. 
firearms retailers or firearms manufacturers that 
sell through U.S. retail channels to adhere to a set 
of best practices regarding the sale of firearms. 
For retailers, these practices include only selling 
firearms to individuals who have completed a back -
ground check, not selling high-capacity magazines or 
bump stocks (which modify semi-automatic firearms 
to fire faster, at rates comparable to fully automatic 
firearms) and selling firearms to individuals under 
age 21 only if they have received firearms safety 
training (e.g., as part of active or former military or 
law enforcement employment or via hunter safety 
training). For manufacturers, best practice entails 
only selling firearms to retailers who are following 
these same practices. 
Another opportunity we have to thwart human rights 
abuses is through our anti-money laundering efforts , 
which help us prevent criminally sourced funds — 
including funds associated with human rights abuses, 
such as human trafficking — from passing through 
our bank. Our ability to disrupt the flow of money to 
those perpetrating human rights abuses and to deny 
those abusers safe harbor for illicit proceeds tied to 
corruption or human rights violations is an effective 
way to undermine their efforts.
While these two examples illustrate our ability to 
proactively avoid business transactions with adverse 
human rights impacts, there are other situations in 
which the link between our financial services and adverse human rights impacts is less direct. That 
complexity may mean we have less leverage, and it 
diminishes our ability to ensure that on-the-ground 
outcomes are consistent with Citi’s values. In these 
instances, we work to improve our clients’ awareness 
and business practices. In addition, where a transac -
tion’s financial and legal structure allows it, we put 
loan covenants in place and monitor mitigation efforts 
through ESRM systems and corrective action plans. 
Human Rights Due Diligence in  
Client Transactions
Citi has thousands of corporate and institutional 
clients. The UN Guiding Principles acknowledge the 
challenges posed by having such extensive business 
relationships, and we have adopted the approach 
set out in the Principles of prioritizing our due 
diligence and risk mitigation first to areas where the 
risk of adverse human rights impact is most signif -
icant from the perspective of people who could be 
affected. We use our ESRM Policy, where applicable, 
to assess and manage risks consistently and evaluate 
client projects and activities against a common set 
of environmental and social standards grounded in 
international best practice, including human rights 
norms and the International Finance Corporation’s 
Performance Standards. In addition, for certain 
qualifying projects, we apply the Equator Principles 
(EP) to assess and manage environmental and social 
risks. The EP framework includes an assessment 
of the project sponsor’s stakeholder engagement 
process, as well as its operational-level grievance 
mechanisms for affected communities to raise 
concerns proactively with the project developers.
Our ESRM team screens transactions covered by 
our ESRM Policy during the initial marketing phase 
to identify any client activities we believe pose 
heightened risks to workers or local communities. 
Our policy prohibits financing any project for which 
our due diligence indicates a risk of harmful or 
exploitative forms of forced labor or child labor or 
when the relevant labor forces have been subjected 
to human trafficking. In addition, the policy covers 
Areas of High Caution — heightened environmental 
and social risks that require closer due diligence and 
additional risk management. These issues were the 72
initial salient human rights risks we identified related 
to our corporate and investment banking clients’ 
activities. They include the following:
• Conflict risk: Certain sectors may present a 
greater degree of project-induced conflict risk, 
which may be tied to competition for resources 
or land. In such cases, Citi carefully assesses key 
conflict factors such as sources of tension and root 
causes of conflict, actors and their interests and 
development needs and incentives to address such 
risk in the project’s area of influence.
• Indigenous Peoples: Various concerns can arise 
regarding the extent to which indigenous commu -
nities are consulted during project development 
and have consented to impacts to their land, liveli -
hood and cultural heritage.
• Labor:  There are risks related to labor forces used 
in the construction of projects or other operations, 
including risks associated with forced labor, child 
labor and human trafficking by project operators 
and their subcontractors.
• Resettlement: The resettlement of local commu -
nities, including indigenous groups, can be neces -
sary for project implementation. When this occurs, 
it should be conducted through carefully designed 
resettlement action plans that are reviewed by 
project lenders in advance of implementation and 
should, where necessary, include efforts toward 
achieving the free, prior and informed consent of 
indigenous communities.
• Security practices: Security concerns relating to 
how project sponsors engage with public or private 
security forces protecting project sites can arise. 
In such circumstances, if we decide to proceed 
with financing, we will advise project sponsors on 
the implementation of international standards, 
such as those in the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights.
If during our initial screening or more extensive due 
diligence for a transaction we find there is a risk of 
adverse impacts, we carefully evaluate the client’s 
current commitment and capacity to avoid, mitigate 
and/or manage those impacts in accordance with 
international industry best practices and their willing -
ness to engage in continual learning and improvement. We escalate the most challenging cases with the 
potential for severe adverse impacts to senior busi -
ness and risk managers for collective discussion on 
the risks and the client’s commitment and capacity. In 
some cases, senior management will conclude that the 
likelihood for adverse impacts is too great — posing 
an imminent threat to people or communities — and 
we will re-evaluate the client relationship or decline 
involvement in the transaction. This is a move we 
take very seriously as we recognize that terminating 
the relationship can have a number of ramifications, 
including removing any leverage we might otherwise 
have had to improve practices over time through 
constructive engagement.
After the financial close of project-related transac -
tions that have time-bound environmental and social 
action plans, we monitor the project sponsor’s imple -
mentation of those actions through the construction 
and operation phases of the project — often through 
the retention of an independent environmental and 
social risk consultant who periodically reports to 
lenders following on-the-ground audits. For more 
information, see the Environmental and Social Risk 
Management section . 
Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s 
Statement on Human Rights
In 2018, the ESRM team screened 452 total trans -
actions during the initial marketing phase, and of 
those, 37 were flagged as requiring additional due 
diligence for human rights risks. This screening does 
not include other human rights risk assessments 
the ESRM team undertakes as part of annual client 
reviews or portfolio reviews. The specific types of 
risks we uncovered are outlined in the table on the 
following page. Of the 37 transactions flagged for 
additional human rights due diligence, 11 proceeded 
to close after we confirmed the clients were manag -
ing and mitigating the potential risk appropriately. 
Transactions may not reach financial close for a 
number of reasons, not solely due to ESRM review.
 GRI 102-4473
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
• 
H u m a n Ri g hts        
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
 Ethics and  
Culture    
< Applying Our Policies to Protect Human Rights and Reduce Risk
When our due diligence processes uncover the 
risk of human rights violations in potential or 
established client relationships, we investigate 
further and, when necessary, engage with our 
clients to better understand their approach to 
managing such risks. When needed, we work with 
them to identify corrective action in alignment 
with international best practices. For example, 
during our monitoring of continuing relation -
ships with two clients in Brazil, our local ESRM 
Champions discovered that the clients had been 
placed on the Brazilian labor ministry’s registry 
of companies believed to be involved in the use 
of slave labor. After further engagement with the 
companies, we learned that the allegations were 
related to past practices among subcontractors 
from several years prior. Since the initial alle -
gations were raised, the companies had, in both 
instances, significantly changed their approach 
to supply chain management and were in the 
process of being expunged from the registry. After confirming that the labor ministry agreed 
that the clients’ practices had improved, we 
allowed the transactions for general corporate 
financing to proceed.
If proactive management of human rights risks 
is not possible, we might re-evaluate the client 
relationship or deny financing or involvement in 
a particular transaction. Examples from 2018 
include the following:
• We declined to participate in a natural gas 
project in South America where we found a 
history of violent conflict between compa -
nies seeking to develop the area and local 
Indigenous Peoples who expressed clear oppo -
sition to development. 
• We exited two client relationships in the palm 
oil sector, one in Asia and one in Africa, due 
to concerns of forced labor and child labor on 
palm oil plantations. Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions*
Human Rights Risks Reviewed in 2018 Closed in 2018
Conflict Risk 8 2
Indigenous Peoples 19 5
Labor Risks 7 2
Resettlement 13 4
Security Practices 2 0
Water 7 2
Total Transactions 37 11
* One transaction may have more than one human rights risk.74
Providing Access to Remedy
The UN Guiding Principles call on governments and 
companies to play their respective roles in ensuring 
that victims of human rights abuse have access to 
effective remedies. Remedy can take many different 
forms, including apologies, financial or non-financial  
compensation or efforts to prevent future harm 
through policy commitments and changes in 
operational practice. The purpose of remedy is to 
help make victims whole again or to restore them, 
as much as possible, to their lives and enjoyment 
of their rights before those rights were violated. 
Remedy can also help ensure that they and others 
will not suffer similar harms in the future.
As a financial institution, our approach to remedy 
usually involves working with clients to ensure they 
have the right policies in place and channels available 
to enable victims to lodge grievances. In addition, 
these companies must follow up on allegations and 
have established processes to offer remedies or 
cooperate with authorities to make sure effective 
remedy is provided.  
Engaging Stakeholders 
on Human Rights
To ensure that we are living up to our commitment 
to respect human rights and anticipate emerging 
risks, we regularly communicate our approach 
externally and engage with stakeholders on their 
issues of concern. In addition, we pay close attention 
to human rights issues raised by stakeholders within 
specific industries, such as forestry and palm oil. 
We engage with these industries directly through 
client relationships, stakeholder meetings and active 
participation in groups such as the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). By engaging bilaterally 
with multiple stakeholders connected to a value 
chain, we are able to enhance our leverage and 
potentially improve the collective effort of those 
connected to particular commodities, industries or 
risks. For more information about our engagement 
with the RSPO, see the Environmental and Social 
Risk Management section . While in recent years banks have come under 
increasing pressure to disclose specific findings 
related to client projects, we are bound by legal 
requirements and business ethics related to confi -
dentiality that limit our ability to disclose such infor -
mation without client consent. Addressing requests 
for transparency will continue to be a balancing act 
between protecting the confidentiality of our clients’ 
information and disclosing information to stake -
holders as appropriate to advance the protection of 
human rights. In 2018, we responded both informally 
and in writing to a variety of human rights inquiries 
regarding our financing activities and our general 
due diligence practices. These inquiries came from 
nongovernmental organizations such as BankTrack, 
the Business and Human Rights Resource Centre, 
Earthworks, Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace, 
Mining Watch Canada, Oxfam and the Sierra Club. 
  What’s Ahead
Building on our existing efforts and feeding into 
our ESRM Watchlist process, we will identify salient 
human rights risks in other sectors outside of those 
regularly reviewed under our ESRM Policy. We will 
conduct dedicated reviews of the corporate practices 
of clients in those portfolios to identify adverse 
human rights risks, with particular attention to those 
sectors’ salient human rights risks.
We also plan to expand our engagement with our 
highest-risk suppliers on their efforts to identify 
and mitigate the risks of modern slavery in their 
operations and supply chains and to systematize our 
training on modern slavery for relevant personnel in 
our Enterprise Supply Chain function.
 GRI 102-42, GRI 102-4375
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
• 
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Operations and  
Supply Chain 
With operations that span the globe and thousands of suppliers 
worldwide, Citi has a tremendous opportunity for positive impact and a 
significant responsibility to uphold the commitments in our Sustainable 
Progress Strategy,1 which includes Operations and Supply Chain as one 
of its three pillars. We strive to manage these areas responsibly and 
efficiently by working with suppliers to improve the sustainability of 
their operations, taking steps to support diverse suppliers, including 
women-owned businesses, and continuing our efforts to minimize the 
environmental impacts of our operations — achieving several of our 
environmental footprint goals ahead of schedule. 
Resource Use and 
Environmental Impacts
We have been measuring our environmental 
footprint for 20 years and began reporting on our 
direct operational impacts in 2002. During 2018, 
we continued executing on the strategies we put 
in place several years ago to meet our 2020 goals. 
Also, in recognition of the connection between envi -
ronmental sustainability and employee well-being, 
we continued implementing improvements in our 
workspaces to advance progress in both these areas.
2020 Goals
As part of our Sustainable Progress Strategy, we 
have set ambitious goals to reduce our environmental 
impact and are currently tracking progress against 
our third generation of goals — our 2020 goals, which 
we first announced in 2015. Our operational goals 
cover energy use, water consumption, recycling, 
waste and green building, and, as of 2017, we also 
have a goal to use 100 percent renewable energy to 
power our facilities globally. In 2018, we achieved three of our goals two years early. We were able to 
reach these goals ahead of schedule through ongoing, 
strategic efforts to improve environmental perfor -
mance across our operations, as well as by prioritizing 
efficiency in our new and existing buildings.
In 2018, we made significant progress on the goal we 
set in 2017 to power all of Citi’s facilities globally with 
renewable energy by 2020. We own or lease more 
than 52 million square feet of real estate in 95 coun -
tries, consisting of over 7,500 properties. To continue 
our progress toward meeting this ambitious goal, we 
are considering power purchase agreements, appro -
priate use of energy attribute certificates and on-site 
power, as well as continuing to focus on energy 
efficiency. In connection with this commitment, Citi 
is a member of RE100 — a global initiative led by The 
Climate Group and CDP, which are both part of the 
We Mean Business coalition.
Detailed data showing progress toward all of our 
2020 goals are included at the end of this section. 
Our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and envi -
ronmental data are verified and assured by SGS, a 
leading third-party inspection, verification, testing 
and certification company. For our SGS Assurance 
Statement, see the Assurance section .
1  For performance against our Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard, please see the report Appendices .2020 Operational Footprint Goals: 2018 Progress76
100 %
use of renewable  
energy for facilities globally
PROGRESS
62%*
33%
of global real estate portfolio
LEED-certified
PROGRESS
25%30%
reduction in energy consumption  
(compared with 2005 baseline)
PROGRESS
32%
60%
diversion rate of waste to landfill  
(compared with 2005 baseline)
PROGRESS
63%30%
reduction in water consumption  
(compared with 2005 baseline)
PROGRESS
33%
10%
of water used coming from  
reclaimed or recycled sources
PROGRESS
5%2020 Operational Footprint Goals: 2018 Progress
* Contracted amount of renewable energy for delivery in 202077
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
• 
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Sustainable Building Principles at Work
To help meet our energy consumption goal, we 
prioritize energy efficiency and renovate or retrofit 
existing facilities to minimize our energy needs. As 
part of our energy reduction efforts for our facilities 
in North America, we are retrofitting our branches, 
offices and operations centers with LED lighting. As 
of the end of 2018, 7.4 million square feet, repre -
senting 66 percent of the square footage of our 
offices and operations centers, had been retrofitted. 
We also completed lighting retrofits at 233 banking 
branches, representing 60 percent of eligible branch 
locations. We expect this retrofit, once complete, to 
reduce our energy consumption related to lighting 
by up to 50 percent. Switching to LED lighting also 
helps improve the overall quality of lighting and 
reduces maintenance costs.  
In 2018, our Citibanamex branch in San Marcos, 
Mexico, became the first Citibanamex facility in 
Mexico with solar panels. The photovoltaic system 
has 34 solar panels that will meet 75 percent of 
the annual electricity needs of the branch. We 
have since installed solar panels at three additional 
branches in Mexico. Also during 2018, several 
Citibanamex branches received awards for excel -
lence in energy consumption, and our headquarters 
in Mexico City received an efficiency score of 97 out of a possible 100. These energy efficiency awards 
were given by the Mexican Energy Commission in 
coordination with the Energy Minister and GIZ, a 
German organization for international trade, coop -
eration and sustainable development. 
The renovation of our global headquarters in New 
York, for which we plan to seek LEED Platinum certifi -
cation, is on track to be completed by 2020. With this 
renovation, we are implementing systems to improve 
indoor air quality and capture rainwater from the 
building’s roof, installing water-conserving plumbing 
fixtures and enhancing the green space outside the 
building. In addition, our cogeneration plant, fueled by 
natural gas, will produce heat and electricity on-site, 
reducing the building’s carbon footprint by 30 percent. 
Reducing the carbon footprint of our global head -
quarters is critical to meeting our initial commitment 
to the NYC Carbon Challenge for Commercial 
Owners, which we joined in 2017. In 2018, we 
announced our participation in the next phase of the 
challenge, which focuses on GHG reduction efforts 
for retail spaces. Citi is the only company to have 
joined more than one challenge.
Efficient Travel Options
We encourage employees to use video and web confer -
encing technologies rather than traveling, whenever 
possible. When business travel is unavoidable, we ask 
employees to group trips together to manage costs and 
reduce the number of trips taken, and we offer employ -
ees the option of train travel whenever feasible. Many 
of our offices are centrally located near public transpor -
tation, which reduces the need for employees to drive 
to work. To encourage the use of these options and 
reduce the impact of employee commuting, we offer 
U.S.-based employees pre-tax dollars to cover the cost 
of commuting by subway, bus, train, ferry and vanpool. 
We also offer bike storage and bike racks at a number 
of facilities and sponsor bike share programs, known 
as Citi Bike, in New York City, Jersey City and Miami. At 
our car park in the London Citigroup Center, we offer 
a dozen charging stations for those driving electric 
vehicles. Business travel and employee commuting are 
reported as part of our Scope 3 emissions data . 
< Citi Uses Solar Power for  
Branch in Nigeria
In Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s largest economy, rapid 
population growth, aging infrastructure and other 
challenges faced by developing nations make reliable 
access to power difficult. Many rely on fossil-fuel- 
powered generators as an alternative, a burden for the 
nation’s 2015 commitment to reduce GHG emissions 
as part of the Paris Agreement and its efforts to move 
toward renewable energy. At Citi’s newest branch in 
Nigeria, opened in 2018, we have installed 20 poly -
crystalline solar panels with a combined capacity of 
6.4 kilowatts. Installation of the panels contributes 
to our efforts to transition to 100 percent renewable 
energy for our facilities globally by 2020. It has also 
reduced our reliance on backup fossil fuel generators 
at the branch, reducing GHG emissions and improving 
air quality in the vicinity.78
One of our 2020 goals  is to increase 
the diversion rate of the waste we send 
to landfill. At the same time, we are 
striving to minimize the overall amount 
of waste we generate. Single-use 
plastic is one area where we’ve made a 
concerted effort. Roughly half of global 
consumer packaging is made of plastic.2 
However, environmental concerns over 
plastics disposal, plastic bans around 
the world at the local and national 
levels, and China’s decision to stop 
importing plastic waste are disrupting 
the plastics industry. In 2018, Citi 
Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi 
GPS) released a report titled Rethinking 
Single-Use Plastics: Responding to a 
Sea Change in Consumer Behavior . The 
report examines various issues related 
to single-use plastics, including envi -
ronmental impacts, bans, the recycling 
industry, risks and opportunities for 
plastic producers, and alternatives to 
single-use plastics, such as metal, glass 
and paper. We are taking action to reduce the 
waste associated with single-use 
plastics in many of our facilities around 
the world. For example, through our 
Drink-Up initiative, we’ve installed 
bottle-filling stations to encourage 
employees in the U.S. and Mexico to 
stop using single-use water bottles in 
favor of reusable alternatives. Based 
on the amount of water dispensed 
from these stations, we estimate that 
we’ve avoided the use of 5 million 
plastic bottles. We have also replaced 
plastic cups with reusable cups in our 
Belfast, Dublin, Edinburgh, London and 
Luxembourg offices; we’ve replaced 
plastic stirrers and straws with 
non-plastic alternatives in the U.S.; 
and in Russia, we’ve replaced all plastic 
cutlery and plastic bottles with reus -
able alternatives.Reducing  
Our Single-Use 
Plastic Waste
2 Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions, Rethinking Single-Use Plastics: Responding to a Sea Change in 
Consumer Behavior (August 2018), page 9, https://ir.citi.com/klrKXyZJnFzVcxKt3M%2B8ZjE95%2B-
42JwVomCDhiNLwPYpStDlxWT7eLP5gzY382k47r1a%2BFVqkE2U%3D. Citi employee 
using a 
bottle-filling 
station at our 
New York City 
headquarters.79
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
• 
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
< Financing Agreement Supports  
Citi’s Renewable Energy Goal 
In 2018, Citi entered into an agreement that will 
supply clean, renewable energy to our operations 
in Texas. The power and renewable energy credits 
will come from the 163-megawatt Midway Wind 
Project in Texas, adding to our existing renewable 
energy supply and helping us to source renewable 
energy for 100 percent of our operations in North 
America beginning in 2020 — a significant step 
toward our broader goal of powering all of our 
facilities globally with renewable energy. The 
project also meets the requirements of RE100, a 
global initiative of more than 100 businesses that 
have renewable energy goals.  
Sourcing renewable energy is just one part of our 
engagement with the project. In 2017, Citi provided 
a comprehensive financing package for the devel -
opment, construction and operation of the Midway 
Wind Project. This transaction underscores Citi’s 
ability to provide multiple sustainable and scalable solutions, and the agreement to source renewable 
energy from Midway means that Citi has been 
involved in the project at every stage.   
These financing services also contribute to our 
$100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal — a 
commitment to finance and facilitate a total of 
$100 billion over 10 years toward activities that 
reduce the impacts of climate change and create 
environmental solutions that benefit people and 
communities. Learn more about our $100 billion 
goal in the Environmental Finance section .< Supporting Singapore’s Year of Climate Action 
Citi has a history of fostering environmental 
sustainability at our Asia Square Tower and Changi 
Citi Service Centre facilities in Singapore, including 
LEED certification, use of LED lighting for signage 
and the harvesting of rainwater at one of the build -
ings for landscaping. In 2018, we pledged to support 
Singapore’s Year of Climate Action, introducing a 
number of green initiatives, including:
• A commitment to replace equipment that reaches 
its end of life with energy-efficient models 
• Turning off non-critical lighting and air condi -
tioning during weekday evening hours and 
using occupancy sensors to illuminate areas 
only as needed
• Converting the roof of one building into a 
garden for edible fruits and vegetation
• Forming a Green/Sustainability Committee 
to engage and educate Citi employees about 
climate action and recycling During 2018, we met our operational footprint 
goals for Singapore, including a 5 percent reduc -
tion in energy use, a 2 percent reduction in water 
use and a 2 percent reduction in waste compared 
with 2017.
Asia Square Tower in Singapore.
80
Environmental Sustainability  
and Employee Well-Being
Wellness is an important aspect of sustainability in 
building design, alongside more traditional environ -
mental considerations, such as energy and water 
efficiency and the use of green materials. When 
looking at how our buildings can affect the well-being 
of our employees, we consider air and water quality, 
opportunities to stay active, healthy food options, and 
a work environment that is both flexible and effective. 
In 2018, our Phase 6C EON building in Pune, 
India, received WELL Silver certification from the 
International WELL Building Institute™. It is the first 
building in all of India and the second Citi facility in 
Asia Pacific to receive WELL certification. The WELL 
Building Standard is a system for measuring, certifying 
and monitoring building features that impact the 
health and well-being of occupants. Our Pune facility, 
which serves 300 Citi employees, features a design 
that encourages well-being through benefits such as 
vending machines with healthy food options, exercise 
programs, workspaces that limit harsh lighting and 
disruptive noise, desks that provide the ability to sit 
or stand during the day, and a healthy overall environ -
ment, including air quality and water purity.
We’ve also introduced initiatives for our employees 
that emphasize the intersection of personal well-being 
and reduced environmental impact. For instance, our 
Drink-Up initiative, mentioned previously, promotes 
hydration, but rather than stocking our breakrooms 
with disposable plastic water bottles, we are convert -
ing the water fountains at our facilities to also work as 
bottle-filling stations. Based on the amount of water 
dispensed via the bottle fillers, we have avoided the 
use of nearly 3 million water bottles in the U.S. and 
close to 2 million in Mexico since the program’s incep -
tion in 2016.
Each year during Citi’s Step Up Challenge, we encour -
age employees to use the stairs at our buildings as 
a way to increase daily physical activity and improve 
their health. Participating employees track how many 
flights they climb and the number of steps they take 
during walking breaks at work. During 2018, employees 
in 50 buildings across 17 countries logged 1.6 million 
steps and climbed 2,699 flights of stairs.
< Managing Climate Risk  
in Our Operations 
The effects of climate change, particularly any associ -
ated extreme weather events, pose a potential risk to our 
operations. In addition to mitigating our risks by reducing 
GHG emissions through the use of renewable energy and 
improved energy efficiency, our Citi Realty Services group 
and crisis management and business continuity teams help 
us monitor, prepare for and respond to a range of issues — 
including extreme weather events — that could disrupt our 
operations. Because Citi operates in nearly 100 countries, our 
facilities could be exposed to a range of risks that vary in type 
based on the location of each facility. To increase our resiliency, 
we have invested in climate adaptation solutions in a number of 
critical facilities. In addition, our crisis management team has 
developed action plans to address immediate risks and support 
our employees and customers before, during and after adverse 
events. Our business continuity team also has plans in place to 
help Citi resume business operations as quickly as possible in 
the aftermath of an extreme climate event.
To avoid the most severe negative impacts of climate change, it 
is estimated we must limit global warming to no more than 2°C 
above pre-industrial levels, an amount that requires significant 
reductions in global GHG emissions. Citi has established a 
goal to transition to using 100 percent renewable energy for 
our facilities by 2020. In addition, we have set GHG reduction 
targets and disclosed our emissions for almost two decades. 
Disclosure of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions is 
a component of the recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Our disclosures can be 
found on pages 89 and 90 of this report. In 2018, Citi published 
Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future — a detailed report of our 
activities and progress in accordance with the TCFD recommen -
dations and metrics. We’ve also included a streamlined TCFD 
index  in this report. 
81
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
• 
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Transparent Reporting of Operational 
Climate Impacts
Citi reports our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG 
emissions in both this annual Global Citizenship 
Report and in our CDP response. We began report -
ing on the direct environmental impacts of our 
operations in 2002 and have submitted data to 
CDP every year since 2003. We follow the GHG 
Protocol Corporate Standard and Scope 2 Guidance 
for measuring and reporting both market-based 
and location-based Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emis -
sions. We also report Scope 3 carbon dioxide (CO2) 
emissions from employee air and train travel and 
project-financed thermal power plants in our Global 
Citizenship Report, and Scope 3 electricity transmis -
sion loss and employee commuting data to CDP. In 
early 2019, Citi received a score of A- from CDP on 
our climate change impact reporting and an A for 
supply chain reporting, for 2017 data.
Employee Engagement
We work to engage employees in achieving our envi -
ronmental sustainability objectives in their day-to-
day activities and responsibilities at work, as well as 
through volunteer efforts and Green Team activities.
Green Teams are employee-led groups that design 
and lead positive environmental initiatives tailored 
to their workplaces and local communities, such as 
recycling drives, volunteer projects, informative 
lectures and awareness campaigns. We have 21  
Green Teams, with more than 1,800 employees, oper -
ating around the world. In 2018, these Green Teams held 247 volunteer and educational events, resulting 
in more than 5,200 volunteer hours dedicated to 
helping communities.
Each year, our company participates in World Wildlife 
Fund’s Earth Hour . In March 2018, more than 2,800 
Citi facilities in 99 countries turned off the lights 
between 8:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., local time. Citi has 
participated in this event for 11 consecutive years, and 
during 2018, we achieved record participation rates, 
with more than 88 percent of facilities joining in. 
During April, Citi launched an EcoChallenge 
campaign  for Green Team members, encouraging 
participants to take simple steps over the course of 
two weeks to make a meaningful environmental or 
social difference. Close to 900 Green Team members 
participated, committing to actions such as reducing 
the amount of energy they used, using public transit 
to get to work and recycling water bottles. In addi -
tion, in recognition of Earth Day, Citi hosted environ -
mental and sustainability events during the month 
of April. Employees organized more than 120 events 
across all Citi regions, and more than 580 employees 
globally participated. For example:
• More than 110 volunteers in Mexico City, Mexico, 
collected 630 pounds of garbage and supported 
the local ecology by helping to plant and maintain 
trees and create fertilizer from compost.
• Volunteers in San José, Costa Rica, held a recy -
cling drive, helping to collect and divert more than 
440 pounds of trash from the landfill.
• More than 330 volunteers in St. Louis, Missouri, 
recycled 80 pounds of holiday lights, 720 pounds 
of paper and 2,300 pounds of personal electronics.
The NYC Green Team cleaning up parks for Earth Day. Green Team participating in park revitalization on Global 
Community Day.82
Responsible Sourcing 
Responsible sourcing is a critical part of the 
Operations and Supply Chain pillar of our Sustainable 
Progress Strategy, and we set high standards of 
performance across our global supply chain. We 
also strive to engage a diverse set of suppliers and 
provide opportunities for them to partner with us in 
delivering products and services to our clients.
Enterprise Supply Chain
Our Enterprise Supply Chain (ESC) team works 
with our business units to support the supplier 
selection process, implement sustainable supplier 
initiatives and mitigate environmental and social 
risks in our supply chain. In 2015, we identified 
three priority areas in our supply chain to focus on 
through our third-party utilities process as part of 
our Sustainable Progress Strategy: paper and paper 
products, information technology hardware and 
e-waste disposal, and travel and logistics. Position 
statements that provide guidance on implemen -
tation procedures for each of these topics have 
been developed and incorporated into ESC’s Global 
Operating Procedures. During 2018, we continued 
to engage senior leaders and teams across the 
company to incorporate these statements into 
policy, in an effort to build awareness and account -
ability and establish best practices related to these 
focus areas throughout the business. 
Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
The goods and services that our suppliers provide 
are critical to our ability to operate. Engaging with 
our suppliers on environmental, social and gover -
nance issues is essential to operating responsibly, 
meeting our own sustainability goals and managing 
expenses. We seek out suppliers that share our 
values and our commitment to having a positive 
impact in the communities where we operate. 
< Digitizing the Supply Chain
Innovation/digitization is a material issue for Citi and is 
critical to our ability to remain competitive and deliver 
value to our clients and customers . We also turn to 
advanced technology to continually improve processes 
and reporting within our supply chain and deliver 
integrated, accessible solutions for our suppliers.   
Citi’s ESC team is using emerging technologies to 
transform our supply chain into an integrated, secure 
ecosystem that processes transactions efficiently, 
ensures the accuracy of data and automates work -
flows from sourcing through payments. Our goal is to 
deliver a state-of-the-art supply chain experience by 
providing our suppliers with faster, smarter and more 
efficient ways of doing business with Citi while main -
taining strong operational controls. 
In 2018, we implemented the Citi iSupplier Portal, 
which enables real-time interaction and collaboration 
between suppliers and Citi, including the ability to 
view purchase orders and invoices and check the 
status of payments. In addition, we have enhanced our 
electronic invoice submission by ensuring that multiple 
channels and options for billing and payment are 
available to support our diverse supplier base across 
geographies. 
As we move forward, our ESC team will continue 
to increase efficiencies, leverage automation and 
machine learning, and embrace innovation as a 
competitive advantage to fully digitize our supply 
chain from end to end.83
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
• 
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
We work to clearly communicate our expectations  
to suppliers regarding environmental and social 
issues, and we leverage a number of standards and 
policies to provide support for our efforts, including 
the following:
• Our Statement of Supplier Principles outlines the 
ethical, human rights and environmental standards 
we expect from our suppliers.
• Our Standards for Suppliers provide guidance 
across 11 general policy areas, including accessi -
bility and diversity, ethical conduct, information 
security and more.
• Suppliers are also asked to abide by the Citi 
Statement on Human Rights . For more information 
about our approach to human rights, see the 
Human Rights section .
• Citi complies with the UK Modern Slavery Act 
and releases an annual transparency statement  
summarizing our approach to identifying and 
mitigating the risks of modern slavery in our 
operations and supply chain. 
We use our Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire 
(CRQ) to evaluate suppliers’ adherence to our 
Statement of Supplier Principles and Citi Code of 
Conduct and to gauge how well suppliers manage a 
range of issues, such as environmental management, 
human rights, labor practices, diversity, and health 
and safety. In 2018, we integrated a wider scope of 
diversity-related questions for suppliers that provide 
products and services to Citi across multiple regions. 
In addition, the CRQ for our Europe, Middle East and 
Africa region includes specific questions intended to 
help in our efforts to identify and contribute to eradi -
cating child labor and the set of practices known as 
modern slavery, including forced or bonded labor 
and human trafficking. We are continuing to lay the 
groundwork to implement these questions across 
other regions as well. 
Integrating these questions into our CRQ and our 
broader work to address the issue of modern slavery 
is part of the way Citi supports SDG 8 , which aims 
to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable 
economic growth, full and productive employment 
and decent work for all. In particular, our work in this area addresses target 8.7 , which includes a 
mandate to eradicate forced labor, end modern 
slavery and human trafficking and end child labor in 
all its forms.
SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Because of our global footprint, we rely on our 
network of Global Champions — Citi colleagues around 
the world who serve as connections between their 
businesses and supply chain sustainability and diver -
sity efforts — to help us implement sustainable supplier 
initiatives locally and adapt the CRQ to local cultures 
and business norms. We also translate the CRQ into 14 
languages to make it easier for suppliers to complete 
and to enable productive follow-up conversations.  
We typically ask suppliers to fill out the CRQ every two 
years. If a supplier’s CRQ score is below 70 percent, 
we communicate our concerns to the supplier and our 
regional sourcing manager and ask the supplier to 
take action steps to improve and submit a CRQ again 
the following year. In 2018, 6 percent of suppliers 
scored 70 percent or lower on the CRQ. We often find 
that additional training and face-to-face dialogue can 
help suppliers better understand the CRQ and our 
expectations so they can quickly address any issues 
that we have flagged related to their responses. With 
this in mind, we meet with suppliers that fall below the 
70 percent threshold to review their CRQs, discuss 
the factors that led to their scores and outline steps 
necessary to improve these scores within the year 
when they resubmit. If the necessary improvement is 
not achieved within that year, we escalate review to 
determine whether the contract should be discontin -
ued. To ensure a consistent approach and understand -
ing of the CRQ process and supplier evaluation, we 
provide training for our employees. We also provide 
sustainability training and education to suppliers.
In 2018, we focused on enhancing accountability 
related to the CRQ across our supply chain, ensuring 
that it is firmly embedded in the supplier selection 
process and strongly tied to our risk assessment 
processes and that we’re taking full advantage of the 
opportunity it provides to engage with suppliers to 
help improve performance. 84
Supplier Diversity
A key priority within our sustainable supply chain 
efforts is ensuring that we source from diverse 
suppliers where possible. Our ESC organization 
sets clear supplier diversity goals and embeds them 
in our supplier selection processes. In addition, 
the Citi Supply Chain Development, Inclusion and 
Sustainability Program gives U.S. small businesses and 
women-, veteran-, disability-, LGBT+- and minority- 
owned firms access to business opportunities, educa -
tion, mentoring and training. Working with a range of 
supplier-focused organizations, we identify diverse 
suppliers, including small businesses, that can meet 
our supply chain needs and then help build these 
suppliers’ capacity. Our senior leadership strongly 
supports increasing the diversity of our supply chain. During 2018, we were able to strengthen our overall 
planning and strategic focus in this area and increase 
opportunities for diverse supplier inclusion.
In 2018, we began a technology upgrade that gives 
all ESC employees access to additional supplier diver -
sity data and analytics. This new tool provides access 
to new supplier diversity information, enriches 
existing data and creates opportunities to consider 
additional certified diverse suppliers. The technol -
ogy also provides the necessary data to support 
measurable, sustainable goals to further advance 
our diversity efforts. For every bid over $250,000, 
we now require the inclusion of diverse suppliers in 
the bidding process. This requirement ensures that 
diverse suppliers are considered not only for small 
engagements, but for large ones as well.CRQ Surveys Completed  
Suppliers Scoring 70% or Lower
• Arabic
• English
• French
• German
• Hungarian
• Italian
• Japanese
• Korean• Portuguese
• Russian
• Spanish
• Turkish
• Simplified 
Chinese 
(China)
• Traditional 
Chinese 
(Taiwan)142018 CRQ Implementation 
100 % | 6%
North America
Languages in which the 
CRQ is available90% | 0%
Europe, Middle  
East and Africa
70% | 0%
Asia Pacific100 % | 1%
Latin America85
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
• 
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Citi has pledged to procure $100 million from women-
owned businesses, especially from firms located in 
developing markets. To support this commitment, in 
2018 we worked with partner organizations — such 
as WEConnect International, global affiliates of the 
National Minority Supplier Development Council,  
UN Women and local chambers of commerce — to iden -
tify businesses that have registered as women-owned 
through these organizations. We engaged directly with 
partners to begin the process of reviewing and evalu -
ating women-owned businesses and their capabilities 
in Europe, Latin America, Africa and other regions. 
During the year, we also worked to clarify which 
existing Citi suppliers are women-owned and, of those, 
which ones are either already members of WEConnect 
or might be interested in joining. Businesses that 
register through WEConnect can be more easily 
identified by companies globally that are seeking out 
women-owned businesses. In 2018, we procured  
$185 million from women-owned businesses. 
In addition to our procurement efforts in support 
of women-owned businesses, we participated in a 
gender-equality-focused forum in 2018. Participants 
generated insight and information important for the 
integration of women-owned businesses into the 
sourcing selection process and developed 11 related 
recommendations for the G20, including supporting 
entrepreneurship, trade and procurement. 
Our efforts to support women-owned businesses aligns 
with SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower 
all women and girls. In particular, our work in this 
area helps address target 5.5 , which aims to ensure 
women’s full and effective participation and equal 
opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-  
making in political, economic and public life. 
SDG Goal 5: Gender EqualityIn addition to the engagement described earlier as 
part of our $100 million pledge, we work collabora -
tively with other organizations to help strengthen 
our own supplier diversity efforts and advance the 
conversation more broadly. For example, we hosted 
“Doing Business with Citi” sessions in Chennai, India, 
and Johannesburg, South Africa, marking the first 
time we’ve offered the sessions outside the U.S. The 
sessions included Citi senior leaders and provided 
an overview of Citi to the participating vendors, 
highlighting key factors that should be considered 
when engaging with a company like Citi. In addition, 
we participated in matchmaker sessions in Costa 
Rica and Mexico in conjunction with WEConnect 
International to expand our network to potential new 
local vendors. 
Partnerships are critical to expanding our supplier 
diversity efforts, particularly outside the U.S. In 
2018, we continued our engagement with Supply 
Nation in Australia and maintained our member -
ships with Minority Supplier Development UK, the 
Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council 
and WEConnect International. For each of these 
partnerships, a designated regional champion from 
Citi oversees and supports the relationship on a 
local basis. 
$984.5 M 
Total amount spent on Tier 1 
and Tier 2 diverse suppliers 
in 2018 ($703.8 million direct 
spend on Tier 1 only)86
Building the Capacity of Diverse Suppliers
Citi works to build supplier capacity through training 
and development opportunities. One of our priorities 
is to ensure that small and diverse businesses have 
the training they need to compete with more estab -
lished firms. In particular, in 2018, we focused on 
helping to build capacity in the area of sustainability 
so that a lack of knowledge in that area doesn’t 
become a roadblock to completing our CRQ or other 
requirements for working with Citi. 
Also in 2018, we began the second round of an 
in-depth mentoring and training program, called 
AC2A, in partnership with the New York & New 
Jersey Minority Supplier Development Council, 
Rutgers University, Covenant Business Concepts and 
other corporate sponsors. Through our participation 
in this program, Citi continued to work with diverse 
suppliers and other corporate coaches to ensure that 
diverse suppliers have access to information through 
workshops about sustainability, leadership develop -
ment and coaching. Mentoring is also an important 
aspect that elevates a peer-to-peer approach. This is 
the fourth year Citi has participated in the program.
Each year, Citi reserves a scholarship for an emerg -
ing or established minority business enterprise. In 
2017, for example, we supported a millennial entre -
preneur via the Emerging Young Leaders program. 
In 2018, we extended this scholarship to our global 
affiliates, and a diverse candidate was nominated 
and selected via the Minority Supplier Development 
UK program to participate in the Minority Business 
Enterprise Program run by the Tuck School of 
Business at Dartmouth College.    What’s Ahead
Even though we have met several of our environmen -
tal goals, we will continue in our efforts to minimize 
Citi’s environmental footprint. We will also continue 
to work toward meeting our goal to use 100 percent 
renewable energy for our facilities by securing 
renewable energy contracts, incorporating on-site 
generation and looking for innovative solutions 
where renewable power is not readily available. 
In our supply chain, we will continue to bolster 
supplier diversity — in the U.S. striving to include 
diverse suppliers in larger bids, and in developing 
markets, where providing opportunities to women-
owned small businesses can be challenging, working 
to build the capacity of our local colleagues to 
source these supplier relationships and providing 
support where necessary to help them adopt best 
practices and grow. 
As we approach completion of the goals we set 
as part of our Sustainable Progress Strategy, we 
are looking ahead to define a strategy for the next 
decade that meets evolving employee needs for a 
sustainable workplace, the need for rapid action in 
response to climate change and our commitment to 
maintain a diverse and responsible supply chain. 87
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
• 
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Environmental Performance  
for Operations
LEED-Certified Buildings by Region**
Region Certified Silver Gold Platinum Total
North America 26 30 68 1 125
Latin America 1 3 5 0 9
Asia Pacific 4 13 40 12 69
Europe, Middle East and Africa 2 4 20 9 35
Total 33 50 133 22 238Progress Against 2020 Goals
2020 Goal Progress
100% use of renewable energy for facilities globally 62.0%*
30% reduction in energy consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 32.0%
30% reduction in water consumption (compared with 2005 baseline) 32.7%
10% of water used coming from recycled/reclaimed sources 5.4%
60% diversion rate of waste to landfill (compared with 2005 baseline) 62.9%
33% of global real estate portfolio LEED-certified 24.6%
LEED-Certified Buildings by Building Type**
Building Type 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Data Centers (DC) 0 0 1 1 0
DC File Storage 0 0 0 0 0
Office Buildings 13 14 7 12 10
Operational Centers 3 1 1 3 1
Branches 23 10 23 4 1
Total 39 25 32 20 12
Cumulative Total*** 149 174 206 226 238
 * Represents contracted amount of renewable energy for delivery in 2020.
 ** Based on the active buildings in the portfolio by year-end 2018 and excludes projects for inactive and disposed buildings.
 *** Includes buildings certified prior to 2014.88
GHG Emissions (Scopes 1 & 2) by Region
Region Scope 1 CO2e Scope 2 CO2e Total CO2e 
(mt) Location-Based 
(mt)Market-Based†  
(mt)Location-Based 
(mt)Market-Based  
(mt)
North America  15,203  287,441  188,983  302,644  204,186 
Latin America  2,081  116,644  89,484  118,725  91,565 
Asia Pacific  1,406  175,042  173,212  176,448  174,618 
Europe, Middle East  
and Africa 3,617  56,218  45,304  59,835  48,921 
Regional Operational Environmental Performance
Region GHG Emissions Total Consumption Total Waste
Location-Based 
(mt)Market-Based  
(mt)Energy  
(GWh)Water  
(m3)(mt)
North America  302,644  204,186  772  2,325,379  16,202 
Latin America  118,725  91,565  283  1,011,169  10,785 
Asia Pacific  176,448  174,618  287  759,690  5,536 
Europe, Middle East  
and Africa 59,835  48,921  179  383,601  4,185 
Electricity Consumption Amounts Applied to Market-Based Emission Factor Types
Emission Factor Basis Electricity  
(kWh)Steam  
(kWh)Chilled Water 
(kWh)Total  
(kWh)% of Total 
Consumption
RECs or Other Energy 
Attribute Certificate224,623,546 0 0 224,623,546 16%
PPA or Source Contract 148,010,707 0 0 148,010,707 10%
Supplier Specific 29,686,507 0 6,656,528 36,343,035 3%
Steam Default 0 24,877,594 0 24,877,594 2%
Residual Mix 458,423,691 0 1,266,874 459,690,565 32%
Grid Average 508,011,411 0 19,693,197 527,704,608 37%
Total 1,368,755,861 24,877,594 27,616,599 1,421,250,054 100%
†  The Scope 2 Quality Criteria have been met for the instruments used in the calculation.
    Figures may not sum to total due to rounding.89
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
• 
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Environmental Impact Report
2005 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Operating Sq. Ft. 71,978,507 57,689,984 54,888,730 52,399,026 50,354,101 48,051,230 45,137,587
Headcount 344,650 235,054 225,750 224,740 219,056 208,043 199,458
Absolute Indicators
Energy
Electricity (GWh) 1,952 1,715 1,639 1,564 1,520 1,422 1,369
District Heating  
(Steam & Chilled Water)87 57 60 62 61 58 52
Energy Purchased  
(GWh) — Scope 22,039 1,772 1,699 1,626 1,581 1,481 1,421
    Natural Gas (GWh) 145 82 80 73 70 63 71
    Fuel Oil (GWh) 51 41 37 37 32 29 29
Energy Consumed  
(GWh) — Scope 1196 124 116 110 103 92 99
Total Energy (GWh) 2,235 1,896 1,815 1,737 1,684 1,573 1,520
CO2e Emissions*
Direct CO2e (GHG Scope 1) 
(Gas & Fuel Oil) (mt)43,385 28,229 26,380 25,200 23,265 20,937 22,307
Indirect CO2e (GHG Scope 2)  
(Electricity, Steam & Chilled 
Water) (mt)1,047,266 860,633 825,160 785,677 713,641 665,298 635,345
Total CO2e (mt) 1,090,651 888,862 851,540 810,877 736,905 686,236 657,652
RECs or Other Energy 
Attribute Certificate 
Purchased (CO2e) (mt)5,953 101,642 67,028 72,947 72,772 102,067 120,424
Net CO2e (mt) 1,084,698 787,220 784,512 737,930 664,134 584,169 537,228
Water Consumption
Potable Water (m3) 6,639,638 5,790,957 5,208,229 5,032,430 4,833,762 4,586,574 4,238,898
Non-Potable Water (m3) 13,014 20,433 20,784 48,336 233,093 278,933 240,941
Total Water  
Consumption (m3)6,652,652 5,811,390 5,229,012 5,080,766 5,066,855 4,865,507 4,479,839
* For our GHG emissions performance, the base year and the annual performance against the goal are calculated using a location-based method.90
2005 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Waste
Recycled Office Paper (mt) 6,230 16,632 16,378 14,743 26,908 11,709 10,889
Refuse and Other (mt) 57,101 31,049 29,574 28,664 27,717 26,383 25,819
Total Waste (mt) 63,331 47,682 45,952 43,407 54,625 38,093 36,708
Relative Indicators
Total Energy Consumed
kWh/Rentable Sq. Ft. 31 33 33 33 33 33 34
kWh/Headcount 6,485 8,066 8,041 7,728 7,687 7,561 7,623
Net CO2e
Metric Tons / Rentable Sq. Ft. 0.015 0.015 0.016 0.015 0.015 0.014 0.015
Metric Tons / Headcount 3.16 3.78 3.77 3.61 3.36 3.30 3.30
Scope 3 Emissions
Business Travel
Business Air Travel  
CO2e (mt)NA 150,967 178,694 109,687 135,735 151,112 149,588
Business Train Travel 
CO2e (mt)NA 5,335 6,651 1,605 2,125 209 227
Thermal Power
30-Year Plant Life CO2 
(mmt)NA 9.7 0.0 9.6 7.8 18.1 9.9
60-Year Plant Life CO2 
(mmt)NA 19.4 0.0 19.2 15.6 36.2 19.891
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
• 
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Digital Innovation 
Technological advancements improve the experience of our 
clients and customers — increasing ease of access to information, 
empowering people to effectively manage their finances, and 
transforming ways of doing business through innovations such 
as real-time payments and advanced supply chain monitoring. In 
addition, innovations in technology can help increase integrity 
and transparency in financial services and other sectors while 
strengthening data security and ensuring customer privacy. 
Customer-Centric 
Solutions
Innovative digital solutions provide significant 
opportunities to empower customers with financial 
information and open up access to financial tools for 
vulnerable and underserved populations. We work to 
enable progress in this area and focus our innovation 
on secure digital solutions that meet and exceed 
customer expectations for service and simplicity 
while moving our industry forward. 
Empowering Customers Through  
Digital Platforms
For two straight years, Citi’s Mobile Banking Survey 
has found that mobile banking provides U.S. custom -
ers with important information that makes them aware 
of, and secure in, their financial standing. According 
to the survey, apps for mobile banking ranked third 
for frequency of use, behind only social media and 
weather apps, and nearly half of consumers increased 
their mobile banking usage in the last year.1 
To make our Citi mobile banking app as useful as 
possible, we turn to our customers to help us identify 
real-world problems our app can help solve. We then 
engage with them virtually while they are in their own environments to gather quick, authentic feedback 
about whether new functionality is effectively solving 
those problems. 
In 2018, we introduced Canvas, a beta-testing commu -
nity that engages Citi customers to test and influence 
the digital solutions Citi is creating to further empower 
customers to manage their finances and meet their 
financial goals. Feedback from the Canvas community 
will help us decide which solutions to discard and which 
to continue refining and testing for eventual release to 
all Citi customers. 
Citi also collaborates with outside partners to meet 
customer expectations for simple, seamless solu -
tions. Examples from 2018 include the following: 
• Citi works through multiple channels to enable 
real-time payment functionality, and we are seeing 
demand continue to grow as consumers increas -
ingly purchase goods and services that require 
immediate payments. In 2018, Citi India introduced 
24/7, real-time payment functionality, enabling 
clients to collect payment from their customers 
quickly, securely and cost-effectively.  
• Partnering with Digital Risk and Black Knight, Citi 
integrated its full suite of U.S. mortgage products 
into a single digital platform. As a result, our 
mortgage clients now have a more streamlined, 
efficient tool for mortgage origination.   
1 The Citi Mobile Banking Survey was conducted by Wakefield Research among 2,000 nationally representative U.S. adults ages 18 and above, be-
tween February 22 and February 28, 2018, using an email invitation and an online survey. Results are available at https://www.multivu.com/players/
English/8313051-citi-mobile-banking-study-2018/.92
Our mobile banking survey revealed 
that consumers trust banks more 
than non-banks to handle their 
finances and that they would prefer 
to use one app to have a comprehen -
sive view of their finances.2 In 2018, 
Citi launched new digital banking 
capabilities for our mobile app for 
iPhone that answers this need, 
including a first-of-its-kind offering 
among banks: Non-Citi clients can 
create a profile and connect their 
accounts across financial services 
providers. The mobile app serves as 
a single hub for users’ financial lives 
and provides a holistic view across accounts and financial services 
providers, regardless of whether the 
individual using the app has a Citi 
account. This access allows app users 
to gain accurate, meaningful insights 
about their spending across all their 
accounts and the ability to view all 
their bills, not just those they pay 
with a Citi card. Approved customers 
also have the ability to open a new 
bank account entirely within the app. 
Reinforcing our commitment to be 
responsive to customer needs, these 
features were co-created with thou -
sands of clients. Mobile Banking
Mobile Banking  
Empowers Customers
No Account? No Problem2018 U.S. Citi Mobile Banking Study3
When asked about the benefits 
of mobile banking, 91%  cited 
additional positive benefits:
62%
A greater awareness of their 
financial situation
41% 
Fewer concerns about managing 
their finances
34% 
More confident in their abilities to 
make sound financial decisions 
The results of this survey 
illustrate how mobile banking 
promotes financial capability 
and reinforce the importance 
of continuing to enhance Citi’s 
mobile solutions.  
2 “Financial Wellness & Digital Banking,” Citi (website), accessed December 2018, https://www.citigroup.com/citi/news/2018/180326b1.pdf?ieNocache=745 .  
3 “Mobile Banking One of Top Three Most Used Apps by Americans, 2018 Citi Mobile Banking Study Reveals,” Citi (website), accessed November 2018,  
https://www.multivu.com/players/English/8313051-citi-mobile-banking-study-2018/. 95% 
of customers who use mobile banking 
are confident that they know the 
exact balance of their bank account 
right now versus 85% of customers 
who do not use mobile banking.93
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
• 
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
• Citi is the first financial institution to partner with 
Google to pilot a program offering U.S. customers 
the ability to use the messaging app on their 
Android mobile devices to obtain account informa -
tion and engage with Citi representatives in real 
time for further assistance. We introduced this 
capability to a small group of customers in 2018.
Many of our digital solutions and partnerships focus 
on helping people manage the money they already 
have. However, we also see a great opportunity to 
help our customers generate income. During 2018, we 
began designing a tool that analyzes the current occu -
pation, income and skill set of an individual and then 
helps that person understand the economic value of 
skills they can develop to boost their income potential 
in today’s complex and rapidly changing job market. 
Designing for Accessibility
Citi recognizes the importance of products and 
services that are designed to meet the accessibility 
needs and preferences of our clients. Citi offers Braille 
and talking ATMs, large print and Braille statements 
and raised line checks for the visually impaired. We 
also offer TTY or Text Telephone for the hearing 
impaired. Many of our services are provided in multiple 
languages to support the diverse populations we serve, 
and our products are tailored to meet the needs of the 
individuals in the countries where we do business. 
In 2018, we worked to improve the digital experi -
ence for all users, including those with different 
abilities. Through our partnership with Deque 
University, all Citi employees have access to more 
than 25 digital accessibility courses. The courses 
aim to help everyone who provides online content, 
from developers to content creators, consider how 
to make the experience more accessible.  Fostering Innovation 
Our Citi Ventures team is at the forefront of inno -
vation at Citi. The team investigates subtle signals 
of behavior change, new technologies and industry 
shifts and invests in cutting-edge solutions to meet 
the needs of clients. Citi Ventures partners with 
entrepreneurs to help them build their businesses 
and scale their solutions. We also look for opportu -
nities to work with startups interested in partnering 
with a large, established bank, such as Citi, to bring 
their ideas to market. Citi Ventures’ portfolio ranges 
from investments in digital infrastructure to fintech, 
commerce and payments. In 2018, for example, Citi 
Ventures announced its investment in Contguard   —  
a solution that uses Internet of Things technology 
and artificial intelligence to provide companies with 
greater visibility into their distribution chains and 
real-time monitoring of goods that have left their 
warehouses. This approach ensures the quality and 
integrity of shipped products, enables proactive 
management of potential risks and delays, and 
provides companies with valuable insights to help 
reduce costs and maximize efficiency related to 
production and inventory planning. 
Citi believes in the power of entrepreneurship and 
will continue to support innovative companies to 
bring their solutions to scale. At the same time, we 
want to invest in the passionate, skilled employees 
within Citi who know our business, know our clients 
and have their own groundbreaking ideas that can 
benefit customers. D10XSM is a model Citi Ventures 
developed to foster innovation internally and encour -
age new ideas across our businesses. Through this 
model, we engage our employees and partner with 
our clients to develop, validate, test and deploy 
innovations quickly and effectively. < Fast-Tracking Solutions to Support Financial Well-Being
In 2018, Citi FinTech launched the Citi Open 
Innovation Challenge , a five-week virtual program 
that invites institutions and tech firms to answer 
the question: “How can Citi empower customers to 
manage their debt and improve their overall financial 
wellness?” Selected applicants participated in the Citi FinTech Integration Program, where they received 
mentorship to develop their ideas in an accelerated 
path to commercialization with Citi, as well as prac -
tical tools and lessons they can apply to work with 
other large organizations. 94
The intent of D10X is to discover and deliver solutions 
that are exponentially better for clients. Through 
direct contact with clients, employees test their 
hypotheses and refine their approaches. Sometimes 
we find that an idea does not solve a legitimate pain 
point, but other times these ideas do help to solve a 
significant challenge. Once the ideas are validated, 
employees pitch their solutions to senior executives 
to receive support for their startups, including 
funding at various stages, guidance from a team 
of in-house coaches and access to the expertise of 
Citi’s businesses and network of global innovation 
labs. This approach allows us to “fail fast” in order 
to accelerate learning and bring more certainty to 
where we should — or should not — invest resources. 
In 2018, D10X announced a new ideation workshop 
that will focus on developing solutions for the evolu -
tion of American households beyond the traditional 
nuclear family model. Workshop participants look 
outside the typical joint-account experience to 
consider how best to meet the needs of diverse and 
multilayered families — from blended and multigener -
ational households to single-parent families — that are 
looking for innovative ways to collaboratively manage 
finances in a digital and increasingly mobile world. 
More than 2,500 employees have been involved with 
D10X since the program’s inception in 2016, with 
nearly 100 internal startup ideas currently in various 
stages of development.
Investing in Tech Talent
As we continue to expand our digital innovation 
efforts, we are establishing new teams across our 
business, further developing the skill sets of our 
existing employees and looking for new candidates 
who have a range of expertise and a diversity of 
backgrounds and global perspectives. 
In 2018, we established a new innovation lab in 
London, which will also be the home for Citi Ventures’ 
operations in Europe. This lab is the latest hub in 
an expanding network of global Citi innovation labs, 
including sites in Ireland, Israel, Mexico and Singapore. 
A group of developers at our innovation lab in Israel 
is collaborating on projects and making recommen -
dations that can be applied in Latin America. This 
partnership is building the skills of our colleagues 
in Latin America and expanding the knowledge and 
cross-cultural skills of our employees in Israel. 
< Bank of the Future
We have identified innovation/digitization as 
one of Citi’s most material citizenship issues , 
as we believe this issue is critical to our 
survival as a global bank. Citi has embraced 
digital innovation as a way to empower our 
customers and serve client needs as the rapid 
development and expansion of technology 
change customer expectations. 
In 2018, Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions 
(Citi GPS) released a report entitled Bank of 
the Future: The ABCs of Digital Disruption in 
Finance . The report identifies the main areas 
of digital disruption in finance — from artificial 
intelligence and digital assets to the emer -
gence of established tech giants into the finan -
cial space — and investigates how banks can 
remain vital and drive their businesses forward 
in this evolving digital landscape. 
We also began building a new digital client experience 
team for our Global Consumer Banking business 
in North America. This team is examining how we 
can serve customers in the ways they are naturally 
inclined to interact with and manage their finances. 
We’ve established workstreams in the areas of Borrow, 
Pay, Save, Invest, Protect, Acquire, Serve, Secure and 
Enable to help us consider the customer experience 
holistically as we work to win and retain clients and 
remain competitive in the financial marketplace.  
95
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
• 
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
An important part of our innovation strategy is 
interacting with a wide array of diverse and emerg -
ing talent. To further this effort, Citi Ventures 
launched Citi® University Partnerships in Innovation 
& Discovery (CUPID) in 2017. Through CUPID, 
students from leading universities participate in 
semester-long projects that are embedded in innova -
tion efforts across the company. CUPID emphasizes 
an interdisciplinary, collaborative approach, seeking 
out talent beyond business graduate programs to 
include individuals studying design, engineering and 
public policy. Rather than taking a one-size-fits-all 
approach, we match students in the program with 
innovation-focused internships that fit their inter -
ests, goals and skills. In 2018, we added partnerships 
with five new universities, including a historically 
black university, and began establishing relation -
ships with universities in additional countries. More 
than 800 students from 21 universities in the U.S., 
the UK and Canada have participated since the 
program was established. 
In 2017, Citi Ventures supported the launch of the 
Global LGBTQ Entrepreneur Network by StartOut , 
the largest national nonprofit organization to 
support, educate and connect LGBT+ entrepreneurs. 
The network’s goal is to inspire entrepreneurs and 
build global connections through direct access to 
like-minded professionals in order to accelerate job 
creation, broaden participants’ networks through 
referrals to others, including LGBT+-friendly inves -
tors, and gain access to new distribution channels to 
build powerful businesses. Members, including Citi 
employees who opted in, have received access to 
StartOut’s private global directory, online forums, 
mentorship program and investor portal. Since 
the launch of the online directory, members have 
initiated approximately 6,900 online searches, 5,700 
profile views and 2,200 connection requests. In 
2018, eight new partner organizations were added, 
including the Global Entrepreneurship Network and 
the Women Founders Network, to expand outreach 
to the entrepreneurial community.132
participants are from
underrepresented backgrounds800
students with whom the CUPID 
program has engaged
34 %
of participants are women
61%
of students are pursuing
degrees other than businessDiversity in Student and University 
Participation Through CUPID
The Citi University Partnerships in Innovation 
& Discovery (CUPID) program collaborates 
with a diverse group of students from 21 
leading universities  to support innovation 
efforts across Citi.
To date, 22 new project ideas and 10 
functional prototypes  have been developed 
and supported by program participants in 
four main disciplines : Strategy, Design, 
Public Policy and Technical/Engineering.96
< Tech for Integrity
Corruption is a global problem that plagues the public 
and private sectors, inflating the cost of doing busi -
ness and taking unfair advantage of people around 
the world. Though technology is not the only answer, 
it can be a powerful force in addressing areas of 
corruption and providing systems that support and 
encourage integrity and transparency. The Citi Tech 
for Integrity (T4I) Challenge, conducted in 2017 in 
collaboration with partners in the public and private 
sectors, encouraged technology innovators from 
around the world to create cutting-edge solutions that 
promote integrity, accountability and transparency. 
Through this program, many innovators received 
mentoring, support, a platform to showcase their 
ideas and the opportunity to work with businesses, 
organizations and governments interested in exploring 
innovative integrity tools. 
In 2018, Citi announced a partnership with the World 
Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption 
Initiative (PACI) to take the T4I Challenge into the 
future. Through the partnership, PACI will provide 
a platform that brings together innovators, govern -
ments, nongovernmental organizations and others 
in the T4I network. The future of T4I will focus on 
fostering communication and collaboration for 
deeper understanding of how technology can address corruption; connecting government, business and civil 
society leaders with technology innovators; sharing 
best practices; and engaging in projects to demon -
strate the ability for solutions to improve government 
and business processes related to trust and integrity. 
Initiatives such as T4I contribute directly to SDG 9 ,  
which aims to build resilient infrastructure, promote 
inclusive sustainable industrialization and foster 
innovation . In particular, target 9.5  includes a 
mandate to enhance scientific research, upgrade the 
technological capabilities of industrial sectors in 
all countries and  encourage innovation in particular 
in developing countries , which aligns with the objec -
tives and outcomes of T4I. In addition to encouraging 
innovation, T4I seeks to use that innovation to bolster 
integrity, which also directly contributes to SDG 16 , 
promoting peaceful and inclusive societies , which 
includes  effective, accountable and inclusive institu -
tions . Target 16.5, which aims to substantially reduce 
corruption and bribery in all their forms , and target 
16.6 , which encourages the development of effective, 
accountable and transparent institutions at all 
levels , are closely aligned with the objectives of T4I.
SDG Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and InfrastructureCiti is also working to help close the gender gap 
in tech. We bring our commitment to recruiting, 
retaining and advancing women in technology to life 
through our engagement with a number of organiza -
tions and events, including the annual Grace Hopper 
Celebration, the Anita Borg Institute, the Flatiron 
School’s Women Take Tech Initiative, and Cornell 
Tech and the City University of New York’s Women in 
Technology and Entrepreneurship in NY initiative.
Opening up opportunities for women in the tech 
field is one way Citi addresses SDG 5 , which aims 
to achieve gender equality and empower all women 
and girls . Citi’s work in this regard contributes directly to target 5.a , which includes helping to give 
women equal rights to economic resources . These 
activities also support SDG 8: Promote sustained, 
inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and 
productive employment and decent work for all , 
specifically target 8.5, which includes the promotion 
of full and productive employment and decent work 
for all women and men .
SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality
SDG Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth97
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
• 
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Customer Satisfaction 
and Feedback
Across Citi, we use leading-edge tools and resources 
to systematically capture customer feedback and 
satisfaction and develop processes to quickly 
monitor, diagnose and act upon customer experience 
issues. In 2018, we launched a new client experience 
initiative that uses real-time customer data and 
analytics to predict reasons for customer calls. This 
predictive technology helps us anticipate concerns 
and questions so we can address them quickly, reduc -
ing call time and resolving queries during the first 
call. For instance, if a card is declined and the client 
calls CitiPhone, the customer service agent will see 
the declined card as the possible reason for the call 
along with relevant details, such as the merchant, 
date, time and amount. This helps our employees 
avoid time-consuming questions and more quickly 
resolve the problem. We’ve introduced this technol -
ogy in multiple countries across Asia Pacific. 
Our customer service team uses a closed-loop 
feedback process to follow up and resolve any issues 
reported by our customers through surveys. In addi -
tion to responding to specific customer concerns, 
we’ve established a “listening command center” that proactively identifies emerging issues that arise 
through multiple channels, including social media, 
phone, chat and email. Using data analytics, we work 
to understand the root causes of the problems so 
we can take corrective actions to avoid them in the 
future. These corrective actions can range from policy 
changes to improvements in particular customer touch 
points, such as websites or call centers.
Since the launch of our enhanced customer complaints 
program in the U.S., our customer service agents 
have become more engaged in identifying customer 
dissatisfaction and have captured details that help us 
understand why customers are unhappy with a service 
or product. This knowledge is instrumental in helping 
us address problems and drive improvements across 
our business. 
We also track customer satisfaction through the Net 
Promoter Score system, which measures customers’ 
willingness to recommend Citi to others. We use 
standard metrics and processes across our company 
to compare regional performance and to surface 
best practices and problem areas from which we can 
learn. We are continuing to build and roll out dash -
boards that enable us to review survey results and 
customer feedback in near real time in order to act 
upon customers’ feedback more quickly. 
98
Safeguarding Data  
and Protecting 
Customer Information
Digital solutions are an increasing part of our lives, 
and this constant change brings increased concerns 
related to privacy and security breaches. Data 
security and privacy are top priorities for Citi and for 
our stakeholders and are among our most material 
citizenship issues.
Information Security
Citi’s Global Information Security (GIS) Program 
couples information gathering and data analysis with 
forensics to inform strategic decisions. Our approach 
rests on having the right technology, systems, poli -
cies, processes and talent in place to prevent, detect, 
respond to and recover from cyber threats quickly.
Citi conducts regular information security risk 
assessments and has internal controls to prevent 
information security breaches. We have developed 
stringent policies, employ robust technologies 
to protect our data and systems, and have built 
a strong team with deep expertise. Our GIS team 
protects information from data breaches and misuse 
by maintaining strong networks to protect our 
systems and databases, but we remain vigilant as 
such threats persist. Our Information Security Utility 
team works with partners across Citi’s businesses to 
support GIS Program compliance requirements and 
increase efficiency through standardized processes 
and automation.
Our GIS Program is accredited by the British Standards 
Institution, and we are the first major financial insti -
tution to have our program ISO 27001 certified. The 
program is also regularly examined by regulators, as 
well as by internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors 
oversees the development, implementation and 
maintenance of our GIS Program. The program is 
managed by the Chief Operations and Technology 
Officer and the Chief Information Security Officer 
on a global enterprise basis; the Chief Executives 
of each business sector and region are responsible for implementation and compliance with program 
procedures and requirements. Annually, we provide 
our employees with training on how to properly 
handle personal information and how to maintain the 
security and privacy of information when working 
with companies that provide services to us.
We invest in, develop and use advanced technology 
to help safeguard information. In 2018, Citi launched 
Citi Secure Authentication Platform (CSAP), a fully 
biometrics-based, cross-platform, multi-channel 
authentication platform to enhance the customer 
experience and improve security. Using standard 
mobile fingerprint and face recognition, CSAP forti -
fies the authentication process. Personal biometric 
information is secured by the phone’s operating 
system and hardware. Mobile phones only store a 
biometric template — mathematical representation 
of characteristics of the enrolled user face or finger -
print and the biometric templates are not accessible 
by the mobile applications. Additionally, by having 
a multi-channel authentication approach, Citi can 
leverage more information about the customer’s 
interactions with Citi to improve the customer expe -
rience and reduce fraud exposure. Just one month 
after CSAP was released to the Citi mobile app in 
the U.S., it had performed over 500,000 biometric 
authentications. We also use Pindrop Security, which 
combines authentication and anti-fraud technology 
to analyze phone calls within 30 seconds to confirm 
callers’ identity. Use of this technology has led to 
reduced fraud loss, lower operational costs and 
improved customer experience.
Citi also collaborates with external stakeholders 
to raise the level of security of the industry. We 
work with our clients, competitors, governments, 
law enforcement and intelligence agencies to share 
best practices and conduct joint cyber resilience 
exercises. Our security teams also study information 
security challenges across industries to learn how 
to strengthen our internal practices and respond 
to problems quickly. In 2018, Citi became one of 
three official partners identified to support the 
Commonwealth Cyber Declaration, an intergovern -
mental commitment to cyber security. As an official 
partner, Citi will collaborate with other organizations 
to lead, develop and manage a project that aims 
to strengthen resilience in the financial sector and 
develop and share best practices. 99
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
• 
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
< “Politely Confrontational” Dialogue and Debate
< Global Perspective on  
New Data Protection Regulation 
As technological advancements provide opportu -
nities for a wide range of third parties to access 
consumers’ financial data, there is a need for 
continued focus on balancing convenience and 
choice with security. In 2018, we hosted a forum, During 2018, the General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) went into effect in Europe. 
The GDPR increases individuals’ privacy rights 
in Europe and broadly applies to any entity 
established within, proactively offering goods 
and services within or monitoring the behavior of 
individuals within the European Economic Area. 
In this era of big data and cyber threats, we are 
committed to complying with all aspects of the 
GDPR and empowering our customers to protect 
their personal information.
In 2018, Citi GPS released a report entitled 
ePrivacy and Data Protection — Privacy Matters: 
Navigating the New World of Data Protection . This 
report, published just before the GDPR took effect, 
examines how prepared consumers, companies 
and regulators are for the tightening regula -
tory landscape. It also considers the potential 
entitled “Politely Confrontational,” in partnership 
with the FinTech Innovation Lab New York, which 
is run by the Partnership Fund for New York 
City and Accenture. The event brought together 
fintech business leaders from across the city to 
hear various perspectives on an important topic 
for financial services: data privacy in the age of 
open banking. The discussion included issues of 
customer convenience, access to data, security 
of information, and regulations and controls 
and featured senior leaders from Citi as well as 
public- and private-sector stakeholders. Citi CEO 
Michael Corbat opened the session, noting that 
we need fresh thinking and collaboration at a 
time when the financial industry faces an unprec -
edented period of innovation and disruption.implications as the environment shifts — 
placing greater value on transparency, giving 
more power to consumers over their personal 
data and requiring organizations to more 
carefully consider the use of data. 
Speakers on a panel at the Politely Confrontational 
event in New York City.100
Privacy
The fair, ethical and lawful collection, use and 
processing of customers’ personal information 
is essential to build trust, provide best-in-class 
services and achieve our corporate objectives. To 
help meet this goal, Citi has established a dedicated 
Chief Privacy Office team led by a global Chief 
Privacy Of ficer. The Chief Privacy Office, part of our 
Independent Compliance Risk Management team, 
manages the Citi Global Privacy program, which is 
overseen by the Citi Global Privacy Committee. The 
program provides a framework for managing privacy 
and confidentiality risks for the company.
Citi’s Privacy and Confidentiality Policy articulates 
principles relating to the collection and processing of 
personal information, requiring, in part, that personal 
information only be collected and used as necessary 
for the performance of the services offered and for 
the purposes disclosed in a privacy notice. Citi is 
transparent in our collection and use practices and 
offers customers choices with respect to how their 
personal information may be collected or otherwise 
used (as required by law), including opting out of 
marketing or other communications or reviewing and 
correcting information. Citi employees are required 
to take privacy and information compliance training 
that covers these privacy concepts.
  What’s Ahead
To stay relevant, we must innovate and collaborate 
to bring convenient, cutting-edge technology to our 
customers, who expect sophisticated solutions that 
integrate with their digital lives. As the rapid pace of 
digital innovation continues and regulations, such as the 
GDPR, make an impact on the financial services sector, 
we will continue to balance consumer expectations with 
demands for data privacy and control. By managing the 
tension between the desire for seamless digital solu -
tions and the need for information security and privacy, 
we will look for new ways to collaborate and to improve 
our products and services to empower customers while 
safeguarding their personal information.101
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
• 
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Talent and Diversity
Commitment to diversity is core to Citi’s values. Over the last year, 
there has been continued momentum to increase diversity at Citi 
and to create a transparent and inclusive workplace. While we have 
more to do, we are proud of where we are headed.
In 2017, we were the first U.S. financial institution 
to disclose and take steps to address equal pay for 
equal work, which we did initially in the U.S., the UK 
and Germany. We also committed to completing the 
work globally, which we did in 2018. In addition, we 
set specific goals to increase representation among 
female talent globally and black talent in the U.S.
We continue to use our voice and leverage our poli -
cies as a global company to reaffirm our values and 
our commitment to the rights of all our employees. 
Our Affinity groups are thriving as senior leaders 
are engaged with talent at all levels to create new 
models of working to support a culture of inclusion 
in all that we do.
< Diversity at a Glance
While we still have a distance to go, we are proud of 
many things: More than 50 percent of our colleagues 
globally are female, and 45 percent of our U.S. 
workforce are minorities; 47 percent of our summer 
analysts and associates are female, and 26 percent 
are underrepresented groups. More than 80 percent 
of our colleagues participated in virtual unconscious 
bias training by 2018, and an additional 35,000 
attended recent in-person sessions by Harvard’s Dr. 
Mahzarin Banaji, who is well-known for popularizing 
the concept of implicit bias.< Smart Business
Research shows that companies with diverse teams 
make better decisions, mitigate risks and outper -
form other companies. And we know this to be 
true in our own business. In Citi Private Bank North 
America, the leadership team consists of 40 percent 
women, and 67 percent of total revenue was gener -
ated by regions led by women. 
At Citi, we believe that diversity is also good for 
economic value overall. In a 2017 report by Citi 
Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS) entitled 
Women in the Economy II , Tina Fordham, Managing 
Director and Chief Global Political Analyst at Citi, 
forecasts that raising women’s average labor 
force participation, average hours worked and average labor productivity to the levels of men 
could raise the gross domestic product of nations 
in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development by at least 6 percent to as much as 
20 percent over the next two decades.
102
Our Diversity Priorities
To ensure that Citi is a more diverse and inclusive 
workplace where all employees can reach their 
full potential, we’re focused on three key areas: 
targeted recruitment, development and retention, 
and promotion paths and processes. In a short time, 
work has been done to build internal capability 
and infrastructure across the company in support 
of a diverse culture and workplace. Our business 
leaders at all levels are directly involved in and held 
accountable for our collective progress in advancing 
diversity and inclusion across the firm. We have 
increased the level of transparency around these 
efforts, which underscores our commitment to drive 
change across our firm.
Pay Equity
Our initial pay equity review was completed in 
January 2018 and included three countries — the 
U.S., the UK and Germany, representing 36 percent of 
our workforce. We found that, on an adjusted basis, 
women were paid on average 99 percent of what men 
were paid at Citi, and U.S. minorities were paid on 
average 99 percent of what U.S. non-minorities  
were paid. As part of our analysis, we made adjust -
ments to account for a number of factors to make 
the comparisons meaningful, including job function, 
level and geography. Later in 2018 we completed the 
same assessment globally, releasing the results in 
January 2019. In this broader assessment, we found 
that women globally were also paid on average 99 
percent of what men were paid at Citi. Based on the 
findings of these reviews, we made pay adjustments 
as part of the 2019 compensation cycle.
We also released an additional figure, called the raw 
pay gap, which is the difference between median pay 
for all female employees and median pay for all male 
employees at Citi. We also compared the median pay 
for minorities and non-minorities in the U.S. Unlike the 
pay equity results, the raw pay gap does not account 
for differences in factors such as job function, level 
and geography. Our unadjusted total compensation 
review shows that the median pay for women globally 
is 71 percent of the median for men, and the median pay for U.S. minorities is 93 percent of the median for 
non-minorities. These differences primarily reflect 
differences in representation at senior levels of the 
company, reinforcing the importance of increasing the 
representation of women and U.S. minorities in senior 
and higher-paying roles at Citi.
Representation Goals
In 2018, while working to understand these pay gaps, 
we implemented representation goals that aim to 
increase the diversity across the firm. At a minimum, 
by 2021, we plan to increase representation of women 
in assistant vice president to managing director 
level roles to at least 40 percent globally, up from 37 
percent currently, and to boost the representation of 
black employees in those same roles in the U.S. to at 
least 8 percent, up from 6 percent currently.
The new representation goals are not an end state; 
they are a starting point to drive progress and help 
us in our efforts to recruit, retain and promote 
diverse talent. Senior leaders at Citi were involved in 
the development of the goals and are now measured 
on their progress against these goals, just as they 
are for other business priorities.
“When we set our business priorities, 
we focus heavily on the balance of our 
business — the importance of not being 
overly reliant on any one product or 
geography and the benefits of that 
diversification to strong and consistent 
financial performance. We think about 
our people in much the same way. 
To be a healthy, high-performing orga -
nization, we need a well-balanced team 
that is representative of the places 
where we operate, in every part of the 
world. It’s simply smart business.” 
— Michael L. Corbat, CEO103
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
• 
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
These initial goals, which are additive to our existing 
diversity efforts such as diverse slates and interview 
panels, will ensure that we learn which efforts are 
working and which are not. We will use what we learn 
through this work to support representation across 
all diverse groups globally. 
These representation goals, as well as other work  
we are doing around gender equality in the workplace, 
directly contribute to SDG 5 in support of gender 
equality and empowering all women and girls.   Specifically, we are enabling progress toward target 
5.5, which aims to ensure women’s full and effective 
participation and equal opportunities for leader -
ship at all levels of decision-making in political, 
economic and public life. 
SDG Goal 5: Gender EqualityPay Equity Review
Global figure measuring equal pay, including base salary and bonuses, for equal work, adjusting for 
appropriate factors such as job function, level, geography, etc.
Raw Pay Gap Data
First company to disclose aggregate measure of total compensation (all men vs. all women,  
all U.S. minorities vs. all U.S. non-minorities) across all employees regardless of role.JANUARY 2018 
First financial institution 
to release adjusted 
pay gap. Also, made 
appropriate pay 
adjustments in the U.S., 
the UK and Germany.
MEDIAN PAY FIRM-WIDE 
REPRESENTATION GOALS
INCREASED 
REPRESENTATION
of women and 
minorities in higher-
compensated roles 
to help close  
raw pay gapsNo statistically significant 
difference between WOMEN
WOMENU.S. 
MINORITIES
U.S. 
MINORITIESU.S. NON-
MINORITIES
U.S. NON-
MINORITIESMEN
MEN99%
PAID
40%
BY 2021
8%
BY 2021VS.ON AN ADJUSTED BASIS
Mid- and senior-
level female 
talent globally to
Mid- and senior-
level black talent 
(U.S. only) to+
+=
=JANUARY 2019 
Completed pay equity 
review for global 
workforce. Made 
adjustments as part  
of this year’s 
compensation cycle
93%
PAID71%
PAID104
Affinity Groups and Senior Leaders in Action
With more than 200,000 colleagues in close to 100 
countries, our people reflect the remarkable range of 
cultures and perspectives of our clients. The breadth 
of backgrounds, experiences and perspectives of our 
team is what enables our success.
Our Affinity model, built as a complement to our 
global grassroots Employee Network program 
that has been in existence for 17 years, is our 
enterprise approach to setting and reinforcing the 
company’s diversity priorities and goals. Members 
of our CEO’s leadership team, along with other 
senior leaders across the company, co-chair each 
of our Affinities to help provide accountability for 
an equitable and inclusive culture. The Affinity 
leaders act as public champions for the priorities 
and needs of each demographic, both within the 
company and externally. Our 10 Affinities — Asian 
Heritage, Black Heritage, Citi Salutes, Citi Women, 
Disability, Generations, Hispanic/Latino Heritage, 
Multicultural, Parents, and Pride — are designed to 
ensure that we understand, appreciate and respond 
to the needs of our entire employee base.
In line with our representation goals, Citi executives 
are incorporating diversity and inclusion into their 
business priorities and commitments. From creating 
a systematic approach to networking between senior 
leaders and diverse talent to one-on-one career 
discussions with diverse talent, we are focusing 
on more direct engagement and accountability for 
developing and retaining key talent. 
Another critical area of focus is ensuring that our 
talent pipeline is more aggressively managed. As part 
of our annual, company-wide succession planning 
efforts, our leaders are working to ensure that we 
have the right mix of talent who are ready now for 
promotion and that talent that is two to three years 
away from their next roles have appropriate develop -
ment plans in order to facilitate career mobility. Unconscious Bias and Men as Allies 
Following our Building an Inclusive Culture train -
ing in 2017, in which more than 80 percent of 
our colleagues participated, 35,000 employees 
attended in-person seminars with Harvard Professor 
Dr. Mahzarin Banaji in 2018. These trainings help 
colleagues recognize implicit bias — the social stereo -
types or attitudes that unconsciously affect our 
decisions — and take actions to support inclusion. 
We are engaging colleagues in creative ways to 
address workplace micro-inequities head on, 
including training our managers and HR teams to 
recognize and call out potential unconscious biases. 
We have created interactive sessions to recognize 
common unconscious biases and hold one another 
accountable to calling these out when we see them. 
With the understanding that creating a diverse and 
inclusive culture is the responsibility of all of our 
employees, not just those who identify with a certain 
gender, ethnicity or Affinity, Citi is creating oppor -
tunities for men to be involved in honest dialogue 
around female leaders’ experiences in the workplace. 
These seminars are intended to create male advo -
cacy and allyship. 
As an example, one session brought together a group 
of female and male leaders from our Operations and 
Technology (O&T) team to bring to light the experi -
ences that female leaders have. The session resulted 
in several of the male attendees forming a task 
force with members of the O&T Women’s Leadership 
Council to address the issues discussed.  105
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
• 
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Targeted Recruiting
We will never make progress in increasing the 
representation of female and minority talent at all 
levels of the firm without focusing on how we bring 
colleagues into Citi. Our goal is for our analyst and 
associate programs to include 50 percent female 
colleagues globally and 30 percent black and 
Hispanic/Latino colleagues in the U.S. Female repre -
sentation in full-time analyst and associate roles 
globally increased from 36 percent in 2017 to  
46 percent in early 2019. Likewise, women in 
summer analyst and associate roles have increased 
from 39 percent to 47 percent over the same time 
period. In the U.S., our black and Hispanic/Latino 
representation has increased from 12 percent in 2017 
to 19 percent in early 2019, with our summer repre -
sentation increasing from 15 percent to 26 percent 
over the same time frame.  We are also changing how we track and manage 
candidates who interact with Citi, to ensure we can 
connect them to appropriate opportunities across 
the firm. Our recruiting team has been building out a 
comprehensive digital dashboard and is testing and 
validating predictive models that include diversity 
metrics in order to more effectively source and 
recruit the right talent. The dashboard will be able 
to show current and historical data through the 
lens of region, university, major, gender and other 
factors, allowing our recruiting team to use data 
to drive our strategy with a focus on meeting our 
representation goals. 
For managing director and director level hires, we 
continue to ensure diverse slates, including at least 
one woman in our interviews for global hires and 
at least one woman or racial/ethnic minority in our 
interviews for U.S. hires. In 2018, 76 percent of 
< LGBT+ Equality and Rights
In late 2018, Citi joined other companies in signing 
the Human Rights Campaign’s Business Statement 
on Transgender Equality . We are proud to have 
reaffirmed our commitment to stand with the 
millions of people in America who identify as trans -
gender or gender non-binary or who are intersex. 
Through this public demonstration of support, we 
aim to encourage others to treat this community 
with the respect and dignity they deserve.
In the summer of 2018, we initiated a new 
global badging policy to enable our transgender 
colleagues to more easily change the name on their 
Citi identification badge. In addition, we expanded 
the demographic questions on sexual orientation 
and gender identity in our Voice of the Employee 
survey to 39 countries, reaching 82 percent of 
our employee base. Responses to these voluntary 
questions will allow us to better understand the 
experiences of all of our LGBT+ colleagues.
Additionally, in 2018 we expanded insurance and 
other benefits available under our U.S. policies to 
LGBT+ partners globally wherever the benefits are 
legal and permitted under local law. In addition 
to designating a spouse through marriage or civil 
partnership, employees are able to designate a  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“partner” of any sex as an eligible family member. 
We recognize that employee benefits are critical to 
ensuring equality and mobility for our colleagues.
In Northern Ireland, where we are one of the 
largest employers, with approximately 2,800 
people located in Belfast, Citi joined with other 
companies to support the effort to legalize gay 
marriage in 2018. Northern Ireland is the only part 
of the UK that has not made gay marriage legal. 
We were one of 29 companies that published a 
joint statement for reform that acknowledged 
the importance of a diverse, outward-looking and 
inclusive society to creating a prosperous future 
for Northern Ireland. Citi employees and allies together at the New York 
City Pride March.
106
interview slates for managing director and director 
roles included at least one diverse candidate. We 
have also continued to use diverse interview panels 
to promote a broader perspective on hiring deci -
sions. In 2018, 80 percent of managing director level 
hires were interviewed by a panel with at least one 
diverse member.
In addition, we’re deploying new trainings and 
technology designed to help us leverage our hiring 
process to drive greater diversity, including new 
interview training for all recruiters and hiring 
managers and new sourcing platforms.
Campus Recruiting
Campus recruiting is imperative to establishing Citi 
as an employer of choice among early-career profes -
sionals. It is also an important entry point into Citi 
for underrepresented groups. 
We introduced a Freshman Discovery Program to 
help educate underrepresented minority college 
freshmen on the various roles in the financial 
services industry. This program consists of network -
ing sessions and trainings that provide firm-wide 
foundational concepts to help them understand our 
businesses and the impact they have on our clients. 
After the program, participants are paired with a 
mentor from Citi and have the opportunity to partic -
ipate in recruiting activity. From there, 27 percent 
of program participants received an offer to join 
our Sophomore Leadership Program, and 13 percent 
were selected to join Citi’s Early Identification 
Leadership (Early ID) Program. The Early ID Program pairs each participant with 
a mentor from Citi and provides access to a virtual 
learning tool that includes weekly virtual trainings, 
as well as virtual panels and seminars given by Citi 
professionals. In 2018, we aligned the program with 
our Affinities, including Black Heritage, Hispanic/
Latino Heritage, Citi Salutes, Pride and Citi Women. 
The Early ID Program plays a critical role in increas -
ing the diversity of our summer analyst class. 
In an effort to expand our reach beyond our tradi -
tional target schools to attract a wider variety of 
applicants, we have begun exploring various proac -
tive sourcing methods. By partnering with companies 
such as WayUp, which is a U.S.-based recruiting 
platform for diverse students, recruiters were able to 
communicate customized messages to promote our 
opportunities. This engagement provides an oppor -
tunity to expand our pipeline and be purposeful in 
our targeting approach. 
In 2018, we expanded the Citi® University 
Partnerships in Innovation & Discovery (CUPID) 
Program, launched in 2017, to historically black 
colleges and universities, with the first launch at 
Howard University in Washington, D.C. The CUPID 
program enables us to accelerate innovation proj -
ects across Citi by engaging diverse students and 
developing a robust pipeline of talent from leading 
universities. Learn more about CUPID in the Digital 
Innovation section . 
Development  
and Retention
Our best chance of making meaningful improvement 
in diversity at more senior levels is to ensure we 
cultivate the diverse talent we already have. We also 
know that the development of our talent is critical to 
our success as a firm. At every level, we are explor -
ing ways to support our high-performing talent 
outside of biannual development conversations, and 
we are expanding our development programs. We 
will continue our focus on pay equity for all of our 
employees and also provide access to a robust range 
of career development and learning resources. 
< Driving Diversity in Mexico
In an effort to improve employment opportunities for 
people with disabilities, our Citi offices in Mexico held 
the country’s first job fair for people with disabilities. 
More than 100 people attended the job fair, which 
featured training to help participants develop their 
resumes and prepare for interviews. After the training 
sessions, participants were invited to apply for job 
openings at the firm.107
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
• 
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Affinities and Employee 
Networks in Action
6
Asian Heritage
10
Generations177
Total Employee  
Network Chapters
< Asian Heritage designed and implemented a devel -
opment program called “Investing in You,” which focuses 
on ensuring career mobility through cross-cultural 
awareness and communications seminars, mentoring and 
discussions with successful senior leaders.  Our Employee Network chapters serve as local branches of our 
Affinities and are initiated and led by employees. They offer professional 
development, mentoring, networking and community engagement 
opportunities to members and colleagues. Consistent with our inclusive 
culture, Employee Network chapters are open to all Citi employees, 
whether or not they identify with a particular Affinity. 
< Pride  and its 27 chapters around the world were 
active in supporting the company’s implementation 
of two employee training modules — LGBT+ Ally 
Training and LGBT+ Inclusion — and promoting 
LGBT+ Pride Month in many cities. Citi Hungary was 
the largest cohort at the Budapest Pride March and 
marched as the principal sponsor of We Are Open, a 
European organization promoting diverse and open 
culture in the workplace. 
< Citi Salutes , our veterans Affinity, launched 
a speaker series designed to highlight the unique 
leadership skills of veterans and to foster greater 
connectivity and engagement across the military 
veteran community at Citi. 
27
Pride17
Citi Salutes108
8
Hispanic/Latino 
Heritage
7
Multicultural62
Citi Women
16
Parents13
Black HeritageBy Region< Hispanic/Latino Heritage  hosted a fireside 
chat with Dr. Alfredo Quinones-Hinojosa, in which 
he shared his journey from the tomato fields of 
California as a migrant worker to his role as a 
renowned neurosurgeon and chair of neurologic 
studies at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida. < Black Heritage piloted a new internal development 
program called “Owning My Success,” which is designed 
to empower colleagues to chart their own career 
course and grow while strengthening relationships 
with other talented colleagues. A group of mid-career 
black colleagues participated in a two-day professional 
development seminar followed by professional group 
coaching circles over three months. < Citi Women’s Leadership Development 
Program is offered to high-performing female 
directors from around the world. To date, the 
program, which offers four days of networking  
and learning opportunities, has inspired and  
motivated more than 800 female leaders globally.
< Disability  celebrated Disability 
Employment Awareness Month by partner -
ing with the ReelAbilities Film Festival, the 
largest film festival in the U.S. dedicated to 
promoting awareness and appreciation of 
the lives, stories and artistic expressions of 
people with different disabilities. The group 
screened two short films to raise awareness 
and education about disabilities among 
employees and hosted a panel discussion. 
In Japan, Disability hosted a session on 
overcoming diability with amateur para 
swimmer Seiji Tanaka.  11
Disability
“We have to be  
comfortable being 
uncomfortable.  
That’s the only way  
we’re going to change 
things together.”
—  Mark Mason, CFO,  
co-lead Black Heritage Affinity
99
North  
America
15
Latin America43
Europe, Middle 
East and Africa
20
Asia Pacific109
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
• 
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Developing Diverse Talent 
Citi has a wide range of programs underway to 
engage and develop diverse talent across the firm as 
teams test new approaches with potential for scale. 
In the North America Global Consumer Banking 
team, for example, our Black and Hispanic Diversity 
Leadership Program helps employees progress to 
leadership and executive levels. The three-month 
program, launched in late 2018, includes one-on-
one coaching sessions, peer mentoring circles and 
assessment tools to support the 30 participants 
to accelerate their professional development, 
expand their business acumen, and increase their 
exposure to executives and other leaders across 
the business. 
Our Institutional Clients Group (ICG) has been 
hosting networking breakfasts and once-a-month 
hourly sessions with black employees at the vice 
president level and above to discuss diversity and 
inclusion and provide exposure to senior leadership. 
In Latin America, we launched a new Women’s 
Virtual Development Program, conducted in English 
and Spanish, for women at the senior vice president 
level and below. In 2018, more than 1,200 female 
executives across Latin America participated in 
a series of trainings on topics such as executive 
presence, negotiation, barriers to advancement, 
resilience and leadership. 
Similarly, in our Asia Pacific region, EDGE, our 
women’s leadership development program, aims to 
build a strong pipeline of female talent at the assis -
tant vice president level. This six-month program focuses on developing a personal skill base, including 
personal branding, networking, work/life integration 
and communicating with impact.
Our Finance group continued the second year of 
its Women in Finance Program, designed to invest 
in future women leaders by providing exposure 
to senior leadership and building a community 
of women in Finance. The second cohort in 2018 
included 15 participants, three of whom were 
promoted from director to managing director and 
two of whom were promoted from vice president 
to senior vice president. Of the 2017 cohort of nine 
individuals, four have been promoted from director 
to managing director. 
The Women in Risk Program, which was launched by 
our global Risk group in 2011, continues to be instru -
mental in building a stronger pipeline of women for 
leadership roles. More than half of the participants in 
this program to date have taken on new or expanded 
roles within the firm.
Citi’s Military Officer Leadership Program is a dedi -
cated, 24-month development program within North 
America Consumer Operations and Technology to 
identify and support military veteran employees who 
have high potential for future leadership roles. The 
program includes rotational assignments, mentor -
ship and deep immersion in the function.
These initiatives are just a few examples of the 
programs we are developing and implementing 
to better understand what works across different 
businesses and geographies in order to identify best 
practices and work toward scale.110
Learning and Evaluation
Citi employees have access to a range of career 
development and learning resources to enhance 
their ability to perform in their current roles and 
prepare for future opportunities. We offer flexible 
solutions that enable learning when, where and how 
it is most effective for employees, and we continue 
to expand our program offerings. 
We also provide a range of internal development 
and rotational programs for leaders at all levels, and 
we continue to evolve those programs to meet new 
needs. Our Global Consumer Operations programs 
help high-performing employees build the skills to 
transition to manager and supervisory roles, and 80 
percent of participants have been or are on a path 
to promotion.
As we enhance our development offerings, we are 
working to formally capture employee feedback on 
programming to better understand the impact on 
employees and the potential for further enhance -
ment. In 2018, all Citi employees received training. Digital Learning
As our work evolves in an ever-changing world, there 
is always something new to learn. To help our employ -
ees, we offer Degreed, an online platform that delivers 
information on the topics employees want to learn 
about, from artificial intelligence to cyber security to 
effective communication skills. Employees can choose 
from a series of recommendations that can be person -
alized for each individual. In 2018, more than 70,000 
employees accessed Degreed, with leadership, project 
management and business analysis among the skills 
most frequently added to individual profiles.
Training for Advancement
Our Global Associate Learning Initiative is a nine-
month training program aimed at Institutional 
Client Group employees at the associate level — a 
critical milestone early in an employee’s career. 
The program, which combines digital learning with 
in-person training, prepares the next generation of 
Citi leadership for the future of banking. In 2018, we 
hosted 421 global associates (representing 40 coun -
tries and 50 cities) at our New York headquarters for 
the inaugural event.  < Voice of the Employee
Our annual Voice of the Employee (VOE) survey 
gathers critical input on trends in the workplace 
and management practices. The survey serves as 
an important catalyst for implementing valuable 
change within the company. All employees are 
invited to participate in the survey and have their 
voices heard. 
In 2018, the Engagement Index, which measures 
employees’ sentiments regarding opportunities 
for growth, job alignment with skills, and percep -
tion that the company is making the changes 
necessary to compete, came in at 76 percent, the 
same as in 2016.1
We also measure sentiments about diversity.  
One of the items on the survey — related to senior 
management support for diverse employees  
and ideas — increased to 81 percent, an increase  
of 3 percentage points from 2016. While we are pleased to see the numbers improv -
ing, we know these surveys touch on increasingly 
important areas for our employees, and, there -
fore, for the business. We continually challenge 
ourselves to do even better across the board.
1 We did not make direct comparisons to our 2017 survey 
because we conducted a different type of survey that year.
111
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
• 
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Evaluation
Employees receive formal feedback from their 
managers through mid-year and year-end reviews. 
Our two-rating system evaluates employee perfor -
mance against their goals and assesses their leader -
ship through the lens of our Leadership Standards. 
Citi also provides access for employees and their 
managers to create individual development plans 
that consider the skills, strategic training oppor -
tunities and behaviors needed to enhance current 
performance and prepare for future roles.  Many employees also have the opportunity to 
receive multi-perspective feedback (MPF) from 
direct reports, peers, partners and other colleagues.  
About 47,600 employees received MPF in 2018. In 
addition, approximately 3,800 managers who partic -
ipated in training programs received a 360-degree 
performance review, which is designed to help 
identify opportunities for development. The goal is 
to provide a more holistic view of each participant’s 
strengths and development opportunities to improve 
their overall effectiveness at Citi.
Global Employee Training 2018
41.9
North America
38.7
Asia Pacific
44.7
Latin America
3.6M
Instructor-Led  
5.0M
Web-Based
41.8
Europe, Middle  
East, And Africa
41.5
TOTALTOTAL BY TRAINING FORMAT
8.6M
TOTALAVERAGE HOURS PER EMPLOYEE112
Workforce Well-Being
Maintaining policies and a culture of well-being for 
our employees is critical to our success. We contin -
ually evaluate the tools and policies available to 
maintain the well-being of our global workforce. 
Work/Life Balance
Citi realizes the importance of being flexible on how, 
when and where work gets done. We have a variety of 
programs that help employees balance their work and 
life, including both formal and informal flexible work 
arrangements that contribute to employee satisfac -
tion and retention while increasing productivity.  
In 2018, we launched Minds at Citi in the U.S., aimed 
at changing the way our employees think, act and 
respond to mental health. As part of this effort, we 
provide access to free and confidential counseling 
and life coaching sessions. The program enables 
employees to seek support for a wide range of 
personal issues, such as stress, relationship conflicts 
and financial challenges, as well as workplace chal -
lenges, such as communicating with managers and 
dealing with organizational change. As we strive to 
create a culture in which everyone feels supported 
and valued, we recognize that mental well-being and 
physical health must be synchronized. In 2019, we 
started offering enhanced mental health benefits for 
employees and their families, including tele-medicine-  
based behavioral health options, on-site mental 
health professionals at our largest locations, and 
Sleepio, a cognitive behavioral therapy program 
to help build better sleep habits. And, through our 
learning and development efforts, we offer opportu -
nities to learn about mental health and strategies for 
helping others who might be affected.
In the U.S., our on-site medical clinics provide health -
care, free preventative screenings and health promo -
tion programs, immunizations and pre-travel health 
guidance to all employees. These initiatives help 
employees and their families achieve their health 
goals through resources that are free, easy to use 
and available to employees whether or not they are 
enrolled in a Citi health plan. Our Live Well Rewards 
program in the U.S. enables employees and their spouses or partners who are enrolled in our medical 
plans to earn up to $450 ($900 for a couple) in Live 
Well Rewards just for practicing healthy behaviors 
such as tracking their exercise, participating in 
biometric screenings or taking an online course in 
how to lose weight or start an exercise program. 
More than 48,000 employees earned Live Well 
rewards in 2018. Rewards are offered in the form of 
gift cards to popular retailers. Our locations in the 
U.S. and Mexico are tobacco-free.
We also offer a Health Advocate program in the U.S., 
separate from insurance programs, to aid employees 
in resolving insurance claims, accessing medical 
specialists and addressing their health needs and 
those of their families. We also consider how our 
buildings can affect our employees. From providing 
ergonomic furniture to managing air and acoustics, 
we strive to create an environment that supports 
the well-being and productivity of our employees. 
Learn more about how physical space impacts 
employee well-being in the Operations and Supply 
Chain section . Also, our Save Well plans guide our 
employees in building financial stability and saving 
for retirement, and we offer a tuition reimbursement 
option for certain employees going back to school.< Citi Parental Program in Asia 
In our Markets and Securities Services (MSS) business 
in Asia, we are piloting a program to encourage more 
women to stay at the company after they become 
mothers. We have seen that the post-maternity-leave 
period coincides with high female attrition across 
some markets in the MSS business. As part of the 
program, returning mothers receive access to mater -
nity coaching and peer support. Managers also receive 
guidance on their role, how they can best support 
employees during and after maternity leave and how 
they can effectively manage with increased flexible 
working options. Both employees and managers 
receive toolkits that serve as a one-stop-shop for all 
information relating to the policies and support Citi 
will provide before, during and after maternity leave.   113
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
• 
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Citi Benefits and Family Life
Supporting employees in their family life is an 
important part of workforce well-being. We offer 
family support through a range of programs and 
have policies in place to support employees who 
require paid leave for various reasons, including 
military leave, family and medical leave and paren -
tal bonding/childcare leave, among others. For 
example, birth mothers in our U.S. workforce have 
access to 16 weeks paid leave, including 8 weeks of 
disability/recovery and 8 weeks of parental bonding 
leave. In addition, we offer 8 weeks paid parental 
bonding leave for all other parents in connection 
with the birth or adoption of a child, including 
foster care placement for the purpose of adoption.
Reduced rates are also available for dependent 
care, and we provide a new parent program for both 
men and women as they navigate the transition 
to parenthood. In addition, we offer the Bright 
Horizons Special Needs program, which provides 
online resources for parents in the U.S. with special 
needs children and subsidized dependent care when 
work-related issues disrupt regular schedules. We 
also offer a college coach to help families and their 
children navigate the post-secondary education 
admissions process. 
In Latin America, we launched a new program 
called ConnecTeen for daughters of Citi employees 
to connect with other teen girls and learn about 
the strengths and values that can empower them. 
One of the key objectives of the program is to raise 
consciousness around gender stereotypes and 
self-perception while fostering a culture of aware -
ness and inclusion.Volunteerism
We offer our employees the resources and tools 
to volunteer in the communities in which they live 
and work and, in turn, our employees are proud to 
contribute to helping individuals and families thrive.
In 2018, Citi employee volunteers contributed more 
than 1 million volunteer hours in communities around 
the world. They used their professional skills, exper -
tise and time volunteering with community organiza -
tions to support a range of projects, from traditional 
hands-on activities to skills-based volunteering. 
These employee engagement efforts with community 
organizations often complement financial support 
from Citi and the Citi Foundation. For example, 20 
colleagues at a Citi site outside Chicago had the 
opportunity to assist five nonprofit partners from 
the Citi Foundation’s Community Progress Makers 
Fund in a Citi Skills Marathon. Skills marathons pair 
teams of highly skilled Citi colleagues with nonprofit 
partners for one day, enabling them to use their 
professional expertise to address projects that meet 
critical organization needs. Together, these teams 
assess the nonprofits’ projects, strategies, programs 
and approaches, and determine if, where and when 
improvements can be implemented. 
While Citi employees volunteer year-round, Global 
Community Day, our annual day of service for 
employees, friends and family, is an important way 
in which we collectively deepen relationships with 
our communities. In 2018, more than 100,000 volun -
teers participated in 1,400 events held in more than 
450 cities across 90 countries. Since the inaugural 
Global Community Day in 2006, Citi volunteers have 
contributed nearly 4 million hours of service to 
projects in hundreds of cities. 
114
Among our volunteer opportunities, we provide 
immersive experiences that serve as valuable profes -
sional and personal development for our employees 
and important retention tools for Citi. They also 
contribute to our commitment to engaging with the 
communities where we live and work. These opportu -
nities include the following:
CariClub: Since 2017, CariClub has been helping Citi 
bankers engage with their communities and develop 
leadership experience by serving on nonprofit asso -
ciate boards. Fifty colleagues are now serving on an 
associate board or have joined a young professionals 
committee, and more than 60 colleagues will be 
working through the process in 2019.
iMentor: Since the launch of our Pathways to 
Progress program  in 2014, the Citi Foundation and 
iMentor have worked together to equip high school 
students with the tools to succeed academically and 
prepare for post-secondary education and career 
opportunities. In addition to the Foundation’s grant 
funding, more than 200 Citi employees across the 
U.S. served as mentors in 2018, helping to develop 
college and career aspirations, assist with the college 
application and financing process and coach mentees 
throughout their post-secondary academic years. 
Service Year: Through a partnership with Service 
Year Alliance, select first-year Citi analysts in New 
York City who have accepted a full-time offer have 
the opportunity to defer that offer for one year to work in a strategic role at a nonprofit of their 
choice. With a guaranteed return to Citi after their 
year of service, participants contribute their skills 
and expertise to supporting their communities while 
honing skills that will prove valuable in their careers 
at Citi. Since the program’s inception in 2016, 17 
analysts have participated, with 10 more scheduled 
to participate in 2019.
Volunteer Africa: Launched in 2016, Volunteer 
Africa connects microentrepreneurs in Africa with 
Citi employee volunteers from select areas of 
our businesses. In 2018, 27 junior bankers spent 
five weeks in Uganda working with a group of 
high-potential entrepreneurs to help grow their 
businesses and create much-needed jobs in the local 
community. The entrepreneurs are also able to pitch 
for investment from Citi through a dedicated fund 
established by the bank. 
One Young World: As part of the One Young 
World program, Citi employees have the opportu -
nity to mentor young social entrepreneurs from 
Yunus&Youth, an organization focused on providing 
resources to drive social change. At the end of the 
six-month engagement, program participants travel 
to attend the acclaimed One Young World Summit, 
a unique gathering of young talent from global and 
national companies and NGOs and world leaders. Just 
last year, 56 Citi participants traveled to the Hague to 
debate, formulate and share innovative solutions for 
the pressing issues the world faces. 
Service  
and Skills115
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
• 
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Promotion Paths  
and Processes
A critical part of guiding the career progression 
of our employees is working to better understand 
what works and what doesn’t so we can not only 
retain but also promote our talent. Career devel -
opment is an important priority, and we promote 
from within wherever possible. In 2018, close to 
40 percent of open positions were filled internally. 
This focus is particularly important for our diverse 
talent as we work to increase representation at 
more senior levels of the company. For example, 
with immense focus and continued investment in 
development, more than 25 percent of our Citi 
Country Officers (our country business heads) are 
female, and our ultimate goal is to increase this to 
50 percent. 
In 2018, we also focused on equipping managers 
to better anticipate and learn about employee 
concerns and to partner to develop solutions that 
help them retain and promote key talent. Managers 
are being encouraged and supported to look beyond 
formal talent review conversations to have candid 
conversations, or engagement interviews, with 
direct reports to build trust and better understand 
employees' career aspirations and morale. Fair Employment 
Practices
Our global workforce is our greatest asset, and we 
strive to maintain an environment where opportuni -
ties to develop are widely available, where people are 
hired and advanced on their merits and where our 
employees treat each other with respect. We are fully 
committed to equal employment opportunity and 
comply with the letter and spirit of all laws regarding 
fair employment practices and nondiscrimination. 
For more information on fair employment practices, 
see the Human Rights section of this report as well 
as our Code of Conduct . 
Compensation
We offer competitive salaries based on our 
Compensation Philosophy, which outlines five 
primary objectives. Our approach to compensation 
includes ensuring that entry-level employees receive 
competitive wages within the industry. We also 
offer employees the opportunity to take advantage 
of formal or informal flexible work arrangements, 
including part-time work and job sharing. 
We conduct a robust annual review of compensation, 
which includes multiple layers of reviews of compen -
sation recommendations and pay equity analysis. 
Learn more about our pay equity analysis on pg 102 . < Citi’s Compensation Philosophy
We have a comprehensive compensation philosophy anchored by the following five objectives:
1.  Align compensation programs, structures 
and decisions with stockholder and other 
stakeholder interests 
2. Reinforce a business culture based on the 
highest ethical standards 
3. Manage risks to Citi by encouraging 
prudent decision-making 4. Reflect regulatory guidance in compensa -
tion programs 
5. Attract and retain the best talent to lead 
Citi to success
For more detailed information on each of these objec -
tives, see our complete Compensation Philosophy .11651% 
of our total employees 
globally are female 
 
(103,243 people)46 % 
of our U.S. workforce 
are minorities 
 
(30,498 people)25 % 
of our managing 
directors and directors 
globally are female 
 
(2,354 people)28 % 
of our U.S. managing 
directors and directors 
are minorities 
 
(1,341 people)2018 Workforce Diversity Highlights
Citi employees and allies march together in the Pride in London parade.
*For certain job categories, including craft workers, operatives, laborers and service workers, the total amount of employees account for less than 1 
percent of staff. As a result, those categories are not included in the table above.  
**The total percentage is based on a U.S. workforce of 66,739. Figures may not sum to total due to rounding.2018 Consolidated U.S. Employer Information Report (EEO-1)* 
as published September 2019
Job Categories GenderHispanic 
or Latino WhiteBlack or 
African 
AmericanNative  
Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
Islander AsianAmerican 
Indian or 
Alaskan 
NativeMulti-  
racial Total**
Executive/Senior 
ManagersMale
Female2.7%
1.8%47.7%
27.9%1.8%
0.0%0.9%
0.0%12.6%
3.6%0.0%
0.0%0.9%
0.0%0.2%
First/Mid-Level 
ManagersMale
Female7.1%
6.2%37.4%
24.5%2.3%
3.1%0.1%
0.1%13.0%
5.4%0.1%
0.1%0.5%
0.4%17.0%
ProfessionalsMale
Female6.9%
6.1%30.3%
23.1%3.3%
4.0%0.1%
0.1%15.5%
9.4%0.1%
0.1%0.5%
0.5%35.4%
Technicians Male
Female16.7%
10.0%25.3%
28.9%5.7%
2.1%0.0%
0.0%5.7%
4.1%0.0%
0.2%0.7%
0.5%0.6%
Sales Workers Male
Female10.1%
9.4%36.8%
15.2%2.9%
2.7%0.1%
0.2%11.9%
9.7%0.1%
0.1%0.5%
0.4%9.6%
Administrative 
Support WorkersMale
Female6.8%
16.8%14.4%
37.6%3.9%
12.7%0.1%
0.2%1.6%
4.0%0.1%
0.3%0.4%
1.1%37.1%
TotalMale
Female7.3%
10.4%26.2%
28.0%3.4%
6.9%0.1%
0.1%9.5%
6.7%0.1%
0.2%0.5%
0.7%100.0%117
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
• 
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Citi’s Global Workforce
11,998
NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES  
(17.6% RATE)8,785
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER  
(12.9% RATE)68,294
North America
44,959
Latin AmericaEMPLOYEES BY REGION
28,013
Europe, Middle East and Africa
62,990
Asia Pacific4,426
NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES  
(15.8% RATE)3,303
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER  
(11.8% RATE)
9,723
NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES  
(21.6% RATE)5,711
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER  
(12.9% RATE)11,777
NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES  
(18.7% RATE)9,182
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER  
(14.6% RATE)
Data as of December 31, 2018.118
BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE
BY GENDER TOTAL
204,256
Total Employees
37,924 
NEW EMPLOYEE  
 HIRES  
(18.6% RATE)26,981
EMPLOYEE  
TURNOVER  
(13.2% RATE)201,352
Full-Time Employees
2,904
Part-Time Employees
103,243
Female
19,490
NEW EMPLOYEE  
HIRES  
(18.6% RATE)13,763
EMPLOYEE  
TURNOVER  
(13.2% RATE)
101,013
Male
18,434
NEW EMPLOYEE  
HIRES  
(18.3% RATE)13,218
EMPLOYEE  
TURNOVER  
(13.1% RATE)
204,256
Total  
Workforce119
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
• 
Talent and 
Diversity  
Ethics and  
Culture    
Executive Compensation
We compensate our executives fairly, based on 
individual and company performance, competitive 
benchmarking and support of our Mission and 
Value Proposition. Our Proxy Statement contains 
a scorecard with each named executive officer’s 
financial and nonfinancial performance goals, 
which are approved by the Board’s Personnel 
and Compensation Committee. We seek to design 
our executive pay program to motivate balanced 
behaviors consistent with our focus on long-term 
strategic goals. For example, diversity and inclusion, 
including increasing representation of women and 
U.S. minorities, and ethics and culture are incor -
porated into senior executives’ scorecards, which 
are a factor in remuneration. Citi incorporates 
shareholder and stakeholder input on executive pay 
into our Compensation Philosophy. We apply our 
Compensation Philosophy through our Executive 
Compensation Framework, which enables incen -
tive compensation awards to closely reflect our 
pay-for-performance approach. 
Discrimination and Sexual Harassment  
in the Workplace
Citi strictly prohibits any form of unlawful discrim -
ination or harassment, as set forth in our widely 
disseminated and consistently enforced policies. 
Employees who believe they have been discrim -
inated against or harassed are encouraged to 
report any incidents that violate Citi’s policies to their managers, another member of the employee’s 
management chain, Human Resources, or the Ethics 
Hotline. Upon receipt of any complaint, Citi promptly 
investigates and takes remedial measures up to and 
including termination of employment, where appro -
priate. All contacts and investigations are treated as 
confidentially as possible, consistent with the need 
to investigate and address the matter and subject to 
applicable laws and regulations. Citi’s policies also 
strictly prohibit retaliation against any employee 
who has made a complaint or participated in an 
investigation. For more on our discrimination and 
harassment policies, see our Code of Conduct . 
  What’s Ahead
To fully reach our potential, we need a workforce of 
people who represent the places where we operate 
and the clients we serve. Citi has a strong record of 
action on important issues related to diversity, inclu -
sion and equality. But we know there is much more 
work to do, as reflected in our recent analysis showing 
the ongoing median pay gap between men and 
women and between minorities and non-minorities.  
This analysis underscores the importance of our 
goals to increase the representation of women and 
U.S. minorities in senior and higher-paying roles at 
Citi by the end of 2021. We are focused on this work 
and empowering teams to implement new programs 
to increase diversity across the company, to learn 
from each other’s successes and to scale these 
approaches across the organization. 120
Timeline of Select 2018 Events
February
Signed the CEO Action for 
Diversity and Inclusion Pledge, 
committing to driving policy 
changes and practices at Citi that 
help advance equitable workplacesApril
As part of our pledge to 
procure $100 million from 
women-owned businesses, 
continued our partnership 
with WEConnect International
July
Expanded insurance and other benefits 
available under our U.S. policies to LGBT+ 
partners globally, wherever benefits  
are legal and permitted under local lawApril
Engaged directly with 
partners to begin the 
process of reviewing and 
evaluating women-owned 
businesses and their 
capabilities in Europe, 
Latin America, Africa and 
other regions
August
Joined forces with the Flatiron School to 
connect women with up to $1 million in 
scholarship dollars to attend one of the school’s 
industry-leading software engineering or data 
science coursesSeptember
Participated in the Grace 
Hopper Celebration 
focused on retaining  
and advancing women  
in technology 
November
Signed the 
Business 
Statement for 
Transgender 
EqualityOctober
Expanded the demographic questions on sexual orientation 
and gender identity in the Voice of the Employee survey 
to 39 countries, reaching 82% of our employee base. 
Responses to these voluntary questions allow Citi to better 
understand the experiences of all of our LGBT+ colleagues.October
Signed the European Diversity Charter,  
which was launched in 2004 to promote  
the European Union’s anti-discrimination  
and diversity policies among employers
November  
Joined #SeeHer, a groundbreaking movement 
launched by the Association of National 
Advertisers to eliminate unconscious bias against 
women and girls in advertising and mediaJanuary 2019
Completed global pay 
equity review and 
released unadjusted pay 
gap figures August
Announced firm-wide  
representation goals 
for female talent 
globally and black 
talent in the U.S.January 2018
Completed initial pay equity 
review in the U.S., the UK 
and Germany
July
Initiated a new global 
badging policy to enable 
our transgender colleagues 
to more easily change 
the name on their Citi 
identification badge 121
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
• 
Ethics and  
Culture   
Ethics and Culture
We have invested in improving controls, including those related 
to risk, compliance and audit, and our progress in these areas 
is enabling us to safely run and grow our business. All of our 
employees, at all levels, are held accountable to the highest 
standards of ethics and professional behavior so we can deliver  
the best possible results for our clients and communities. 
Ethics and  
Culture at Citi
Each Citi employee has made a commitment to 
serve as our clients’ most trusted partner, in every 
transaction and every interaction, by responsibly 
providing our products, services and expertise. We 
expect our employees to comply with all applicable 
laws, regulations and Citi policies — including our 
Code of Conduct . Our Mission and Value Proposition 
asks our employees globally to ensure that their 
decisions pass three tests: They are in our clients’ 
interests; they create economic value; and they are 
always systemically responsible. 
These three tests help our employees to deliver on 
our core activities of safeguarding assets, lending 
money, making payments and accessing capital 
markets on behalf of our clients — each of which 
creates an obligation to act responsibly, do every -
thing possible to create the best outcomes and 
prudently manage risk. 
The Ethics and Culture Committee of our Board of 
Directors oversees Citi’s efforts to reinforce and 
enhance a culture of ethics throughout the firm. 
At Citi, we establish and communicate our core values and principles through our publicly available 
Code of Conduct, our publicly available Leadership 
Standards , various training and development 
opportunities, employee engagement initiatives 
and communications from our senior leaders. In 
doing so, we reinforce that our employees must 
apply our values and principles every day to every -
thing they do and wherever Citi operates. 
They are in our clients’ interests
They create economic value
They are always systemically  
responsibleWe ask our colleagues to ensure that 
their decisions pass three tests: 122
Ethics Program
Citi’s Ethics Office, a part of Independent Compliance 
Risk Management (ICRM), is responsible for our Ethics 
Program, which includes reinforcing Citi’s values 
through the Code of Conduct, Code of Conduct training 
and employee outreach efforts such as the Spotlight 
on Ethics (see below). The Ethics Program also includes 
Citi’s Ethics Hotline, works with our businesses and 
control functions to identify control enhancements, 
and reports on significant matters to Citi’s internal and 
external stakeholders. 
As part of Citi’s annual Voice of the Employee survey, 
a key culture initiative to gather feedback from our 
employees, we include an Ethical Culture Index. This 
Index measures five items: comfort with reporting 
unethical practices without fear of reprisal, a feeling 
of accountability to identify and escalate issues, confi -
dence that Citi will act upon reported legal or ethical 
violations, a belief that colleagues act with integrity, 
and manager encouragement of ethical conduct even 
in the face of pressure. Index results have held steady 
for several years, with 89 percent responding positively 
to the Index items in 2018, the same as in 2017 and up 
from 88 percent in 2016.Code of Conduct
Citi’s Code of Conduct outlines the standards 
of ethics and professional behavior expected of 
employees and representatives of Citi when dealing 
with clients, business colleagues, shareholders, 
communities and each other. It also provides an 
overview of key legal and regulatory requirements 
and select global policies. The Code applies to all 
directors, officers and employees of Citi worldwide. 
In addition, individuals performing services for Citi 
may be subject to the Code by contract or agree -
ment. The Code is publicly available in 26 languages 
at our Investor Relations website . 
Our Code of Conduct illustrates how our employees 
can make ethical decisions using a decision-making 
guide that identifies key criteria through which a 
proposed choice or course of action should pass 
in order to align with the tests contained in our 
Mission and Value Proposition and our Leadership 
Standards. Updated in 2017 and approved by our 
Board of Directors, the Code reinforces for employ -
ees their responsibility to adhere to our core values 
while leading by example, taking responsibility for 
their decisions, and escalating actual or potential 
misconduct, whether their own or that of others. It 
also highlights for senior leaders and managers their 
elevated responsibility to model ethical conduct. < Spotlight on Ethics 
Citi shares the results of actual ethics investigations 
with employees through a quarterly communication 
called Spotlight on Ethics, to show employees that 
their concerns are investigated while highlighting 
commonplace areas in which ethical lapses can occur. 
The Spotlight on Ethics also includes corrective 
actions to demonstrate that raising concerns leads 
to meaningful action. In 2018, issues of Spotlight 
addressed topics such as how to identify and escalate 
fraud risk concerns, considerations for employees 
engaging in outside business activities (including 
potential conflicts of interest), the responsible use 
of social media and requirements surrounding the 
acceptance of business gifts and entertainment. 
123
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
• 
Ethics and  
Culture   
Upon joining Citi, employees must acknowledge that 
they have read and will comply with the Code, and we 
ask employees to periodically reaffirm this commit -
ment through Code of Conduct training. Violations of 
the Code can result in disciplinary action up to and 
including termination of employment. 
The training is required biennially following the issu -
ance of an updated Code of Conduct. As such, new 
training was provided to all employees in 2018. The 
training serves as an essential means to connect Citi’s 
values and principles to expected employee behaviors 
and conduct. Through the use of hypothetical work- 
related ethical scenarios, the training enables 
employees to better recognize when to seek guidance 
or report concerns about their conduct or that of 
others; it also provides information about the various 
avenues through which they can do both. Code of 
Conduct training is offered to new hires globally on a 
rolling basis, as well as to non-employee contingent 
workers who are performing services for Citi.
Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns
We emphasize to our employees the importance of 
escalating issues in Citi’s global Escalation Policy. 
The Escalation Policy clearly sets forth employ -
ees’ obligation to escalate violations or potential 
violations of law, rule or regulation, or breach or 
potential breach of Citi policy or procedure or the 
Code of Conduct. The Escalation Policy also provides 
information on the multiple avenues through which 
employees can raise issues, including, among others, 
their managers or other members of management, 
their Human Resources or labor relations represen -
tatives, internal legal counsel, a designated ICRM 
officer, Citi Security and Investigative Service,s and 
the Ethics Hotline.
The Escalation Policy was updated in 2018 to clarify 
how employees are expected to escalate any issues, 
including concerns about employee misconduct 
related to sales practices, and to establish require -
ments for prompt reporting of significant matters 
to the appropriate governance committees and the 
Board of Directors. The policy sets forth require -
ments on what to escalate, when to escalate and the 
parties to whom to escalate. It includes roles and 
responsibilities for the identification, reporting,  
 investigation, resolution and senior management 
reporting of these concerns and for oversight of 
escalation requirements and processes.
The Ethics Hotline provides five channels for employ -
ees and any third party, including members of the 
general public, to report concerns about unethical 
behavior to Citi’s Ethics Office. A telephone line is 
available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with live 
operators who can connect to translators in multiple 
languages. Other reporting channels include a dedi -
cated email address, fax line, website (both internal 
and public facing) and physical mailing address. 
We believe it is essential that individuals feel secure 
when raising a concern. All contacts and investi -
gations are treated as confidentially as possible, 
consistent with the need to investigate and address 
the matter and subject to applicable laws and regu -
lations. Concerns may be raised either anonymously 
or with attribution, subject to applicable laws and 
regulations. Further, Citi prohibits any form of 
retaliation against anyone who raises a concern 
or question in good faith or who participates in a 
subsequent investigation. Employees who engage 
in retaliation against a colleague because he or she 
raised a concern or question in good faith, asked for 
a reasonable accommodation, reported a violation 
or was involved in an investigation are subject to 
disciplinary action, up to and including termination 
of employment or other relationship with Citi.
Each year, the Citi Ethics Office provides to all employ -
ees a summary of the types of concerns received 
through the Ethics Hotline, to show the use of Citi’s 
ethics process and demonstrate that raising concerns 
to the Citi Ethics Office leads to meaningful action 
within our organization. Examples of such action can 
include disciplinary actions against individual employ-
ees and non-employees, the termination of vendor 
relationships, referrals to the appropriate law enforce -
ment or governmental authorities, communications 
to our workforce, additional training for employees 
and non-employees, changes to Citi policy, business 
processes and procedures, and control enhancements.
In addition, the Ethics Office publicizes an internal 
website that provides employees with updates on 
Citi’s Ethics Program and initiatives, as well as 
resources for managers and employees to learn 
more about Citi’s ethical values and principles.124
Industry Collaboration 
We have made a concerted effort to partner with 
key stakeholders on ways that we can collectively 
improve the culture of the banking industry. In June 
2018, for example, Citi’s CEO, along with other indus -
try leaders and regulators, participated in the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York’s annual workshop on 
culture and behavior in the financial services indus -
try. The workshop explored progress and challenges 
in reforming culture and behavior in the financial 
services industry from a variety of perspectives. 
Citi is also a member firm of the Banking Standards 
Board (BSB) in the UK. Together with more than 30 
other member firms, we support the BSB’s indepen -
dent role to help rebuild trust and confidence across 
the UK banking industry by promoting high ethical 
and professional standards for behavior and compe -
tence. We remain engaged with the BSB directly 
through our UK senior management. Our Chief 
Country Officer for the UK has been a BSB board 
member since its inception. 
  GRI 102-42, GRI 102-44Managing  
Compliance Risk
The ICRM team is responsible for helping to drive 
a culture of ethical conduct at Citi by establishing 
policies, programs and procedures that guide and 
support our employees in making ethical decisions 
and adhering to appropriate standards of conduct. 
Through an integrated compliance risk management 
framework, this group protects Citi by setting 
standards; providing guidance, training and advice 
to our businesses regarding compliance risk; and 
driving ownership and accountability for managing 
compliance risk in accordance with Citi standards 
across the firm. Managing compliance risk is the 
responsibility of all of our employees and requires 
not only adherence to applicable laws, regulations, 
policies and relevant standards of conduct but also 
the promotion of business behavior and activity 
consistent with the values and conduct expectations 
outlined by our Mission and Value Proposition, 
Leadership Standards and Code of Conduct. Through 
the efforts of a range of teams, including Anti-
Bribery, Anti-Money Laundering (AML), Ethics and 
Risk, we work to counteract the many and varied 
threats of corruption facing the financial sector. 
Citi’s global Compliance organization is headed by 
our Chief Compliance Officer, who reports directly to 
our CEO and provides regular reports on the perfor -
mance of the compliance program to our Board of 
Directors, as well as its Audit, Risk Management, and 
Ethics and Culture committees. < Leadership Standards Accountability
Our culture is not just who we are and what 
we believe; it’s how we act in small, everyday 
moments. We encourage all employees to demon -
strate the behaviors of our Leadership Standards , 
which are the measurable skills, abilities and 
knowledge that all of us at Citi should exhibit 
to be successful leaders. Holding ourselves and 
each other to these high standards is part of our 
culture and our commitment to operating in our 
clients’ best interests, driving economic value and 
minimizing risk. 
We expect managers to lead by example and 
inspire their employees to live Citi’s values. Every manager is responsible for creating a work 
environment free of discrimination, harassment 
and retaliation. As role models, managers rein -
force the importance of following our Leadership 
Standards, Code of Conduct and Mission and 
Value Proposition, as well as encourage employ -
ees to raise any concerns about potential legal 
or ethical issues. Managers also ensure concerns 
are properly resolved or promptly escalated 
through appropriate channels, promote aware -
ness of all resources available for reporting 
concerns and neither engage in nor tolerate 
retaliation of any kind.125
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
• 
Ethics and  
Culture   
Anti-Bribery Program
We continually enhance our Anti-Bribery Program 
with respect to the areas outlined in the Citi Anti-
Bribery Program Statement — which is updated at 
least annually — and in our Code of Conduct , which 
summarizes our Anti-Bribery Policy. 
Citi complies with all applicable anti-bribery laws 
and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and the applicable 
local anti-bribery laws of the countries in which 
we operate. Our Anti-Bribery Program Statement 
expressly prohibits bribery in any form for our 
employees, as well as our suppliers. 
We have written policies, procedures and internal 
controls designed to comply with anti-bribery laws. 
We conduct an annual bribery risk assessment of all 
global business lines. The risk assessment addresses 
many areas of risk, including gifts and entertainment, 
hiring practices and third-party relationships. The Anti-
Bribery Program is overseen by our Chief Compliance 
Officer, and information on anti-bribery compliance 
is disseminated to senior management at both the 
regional and enterprise levels and to the Board of 
Directors or a committee of the Board, as appropriate. 
We provide our staff with anti-bribery training annu -
ally and supplement it with targeted training and communications as needed. We give staff multiple 
ways, including the Ethics Hotline, to escalate  
bribery-related concerns and to prompt investiga -
tions, where necessary. 
Sanctions Program
Citi conducts business and operations in compliance 
with applicable sanctions, laws and regulations, 
including those of the U.S. and other countries in 
which we operate. We maintain a robust, risk-based 
ICRM Sanctions Program that applies globally and 
is commensurate with our global footprint. As a 
financial institution organized in the U.S., Citi and 
our subsidiaries globally comply with applicable U.S. 
sanctions requirements, among other requirements. 
Our enterprise-wide Sanctions Program promotes 
compliance with increasingly dynamic sanctions 
requirements. The program includes policies and 
procedures, risk category statement and tolerance 
thresholds, enterprise-wide screening, annual 
risk assessments and audits of sanctions control 
processes, employee training and a diverse team 
of Compliance professionals stationed around the 
world. Citi’s Sanctions Program and the associated 
policy are owned by the Chief Sanctions Officer, and 
the policy is approved by the Audit Committee of the 
Board of Directors. < Disrupting Terrorist Financing and Transnational Crimes Through Sanctions
Advancements in financial services technology and 
increased globalization create opportunities for 
innovations that can improve the lives of people 
around the world. But they also introduce new risks, 
including the potential for bad actors to take advan -
tage. Citi’s Independent Compliance Risk Management 
Sanctions team created a new specialized group that 
seeks to identify, understand and address emerging 
sanctions risks. Through the implementation of 
innovative solutions, this group detects and disrupts 
otherwise unidentified parties that may be engaged 
in the evasion of economic sanctions regimes. ICRM 
Sanctions is working around the clock to detect and 
deter the movement of money through Citi that could have an undisclosed nexus to countries such as North 
Korea. They are reviewing open-source and institu -
tional sources, collaborating with counterparts in 
Anti-Money Laundering and relevant Citi businesses, 
and adopting best practices from peers, think tanks 
and law enforcement agencies. The team, which 
includes former officials of the U.S. Department of the 
Treasury, is leveraging industry-leading subject matter 
expertise in sanctions evasion techniques to identify 
transactional activity and relationships that present 
heightened risks and to provide colleagues across Citi 
with the tools and knowledge needed to help identify 
and counter potential illicit finance activities.126
Anti-Money Laundering Program
Citi’s AML Program works to protect our clients, our 
franchise and the global financial system from the 
risks of money laundering and terrorist financing.
The program centers on: 
• Prevention:  Citi’s Global Know Your Customer 
Program is the cornerstone of our AML Program, 
enabling us to effectively evaluate the potential risks 
associated with each client relationship and ensure 
that we adhere to globally consistent policies and 
standards, customer risk scoring and onboarding.
• Detection:  We monitor transactions to identify 
unusual or suspicious transactions, behaviors or 
patterns of activity across our global footprint. Our 
AML investigations unit reviews transactions of new 
and existing clients across businesses and regions.
• Reporting:  We create, track and file Suspicious 
Activity Reports, Suspicious Transaction Reports 
and Currency Transaction Reports, as required in 
many countries. • Governance:  Our enterprise-wide controls that 
govern the overall program include global AML 
policies, processes, testing and training. Citi’s Global 
AML Program Head and Bank Secrecy Act Officer is 
responsible for overseeing the program, including 
apprising the Board of Directors and senior manage -
ment of AML initiatives, any significant deficiencies 
and the reporting of suspicious activity. 
Our AML Program includes more than 6,400 employ -
ees globally, including more than 440 designated 
AML Officers covering every Citi business, function 
and geographic area. These specialists partner 
with various functions, including Compliance, Audit, 
Technology, and our institutional and consumer 
businesses, to provide effective enterprise AML 
risk assessment and to meet our AML -related 
requirements at both the global and local levels. In 
2018, we focused on simplifying and creating more 
efficiencies for Citi’s clients while continuing to build 
and execute on an AML Program that protects our 
franchise, proactively mitigates risk and delivers on 
our regulatory requirements. For more information 
on Citi’s AML Program, visit our website . 
26,463
Europe, Middle  
East, and Africa
58,590
North America
65,254
Asia Pacific
 *  This combined online training incorporates multiple anti-corruption efforts, including AML, sanctions and anti-bribery training. Numbers include all 
Citi staff who completed the 2018 training as of January 2019. (Employees and non-employee workers have 30 days to complete it.) 
194,056
Total Employees
43,749
Latin America  
(including Mexico)Number of Employees Who Completed Citi’s 2018 Anti-Money Laundering, 
Sanctions and Anti-Bribery Training (by region)* 127
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
• 
Ethics and  
Culture   
< Combating the Illegal  
Wildlife Trade
In recent years, the illegal wildlife trade (IWT) 
has grown more sophisticated as large profits 
have attracted global criminal networks and 
have helped fuel devastating levels of poaching 
and other illegal activity. Wildlife and animal 
parts are trafficked much like illegal drugs and 
arms and, as a result, financial institutions risk 
unknowingly facilitating financial flows derived 
from IWT. In 2018, Citi joined the United for 
Wildlife Financial Taskforce, a collaboration 
between financial institutions and NGOs organi -
zations to combat IWT. As part of this effort, Citi 
was one of 30 institutions to sign the Mansion 
House Declaration, which outlines six commit -
ments these institutions are making to share 
resources and intelligence to disrupt the flow of 
illegal income generated by these activities. 
Since joining the Taskforce, Citi colleagues have 
been working together to enhance awareness 
among key internal stakeholders, shedding light 
on key findings thus far and key risk indicators. 
We have also shared the work we are undertak -
ing to detect and disrupt IWT with others and 
have identified and acted on Citi touchpoints 
for IWT based on intelligence shared within the 
Taskforce. Combating IWT is an ongoing effort, 
and we are continuing to bring Citi colleagues 
together to build awareness and share best 
practices, while also collaborating with others 
in the industry to detect and disrupt wildlife 
trafficking and mitigate the risks of money 
laundering and other serious crimes associated 
with the illegal trade of wildlife.Serving Our Customers 
and Clients Responsibly
We have policies and systems in place to make sure 
we are always treating customers responsibly and 
fairly, as reflected in our Code of Conduct and our 
internal checks-and-balances processes when creat -
ing new products. 
Responsible Marketing
We are committed to providing clients with the 
right products and services based on their needs, 
wants and preferences, while adhering to all internal 
policies and procedures, as well as all banking laws 
and regulations. We take the time to understand 
the unique financial requirements of each client 
and offer only products and services that meet 
those needs. We work diligently to clearly disclose 
all the features and terms and conditions, including 
applicable fees and charges, for the products and 
services offered so that clients can select and use 
the product or service best suited to them.
In 2018, as part of our customer-centric approach to 
communicating in a simple, straightforward manner, 
our Global Consumer Banking’s (GCB) Branded Cards 
business continued to deliver personalized videos to 
heighten customer comprehension of key topics. For 
example, we launched a video outlining the bene -
fits of the Tarjeta de Crédito Costco Citibanamex 
(Citibanamex Costco credit card), including how 
cardmembers could leverage the annual rebate. Of 
those cardmembers surveyed, 86 percent found 
the video to be extremely helpful in getting them to 
better understand the card's benefits.
We deliver innovative, powerful solutions for our 
customers to drive greater simplicity, convenience, 
control and insight. In the U.S., for example, GCB has 
launched a steady stream of mobile features, includ -
ing the ability to connect accounts across financial 
services providers within the Citi Mobile app for iOS. 
This feature provides customers with a holistic view 
of their financial lives across their Citi accounts as 
well as other financial services providers, and elim -
inates the need for additional financial tracking and 
128
budgeting apps. Our ongoing enhancements to our 
mobile app helped us to achieve certification in 2019 
from J.D. Power, which cited “an outstanding mobile 
credit card experience, ensuring ease of navigation, 
range of services, speed of completing transactions, 
clarity of information and appearance.” Citi was one 
of only two brands recognized with the J.D. Power 
Mobile App Certification as of January 2019. Learn 
more about how we work to improve the digital expe -
rience of our clients in the Digital Innovation section .
We also provide our customers with timely resources 
and information related to safety and security. 
Recently, Citi launched a redesigned U.S. online 
Security Center for customers to learn about what 
Citi does to protect them and what they can do to 
protect themselves against identify theft and other 
security risks. As a result of this expanded content, 
as well as our efforts to market it prominently across 
our digital channels, we have seen visits to the 
Security Center increase by more than 450 percent.
Further, in an effort to contribute to eliminating 
gender bias in marketing, in 2018 Citi joined 
#SeeHer, a groundbreaking movement launched by 
the Association of National Advertisers (ANA) to 
eliminate unconscious bias against women and girls 
in advertising and media. This partnership enables 
Citi to collaborate with the ANA to increase the 
accurate portrayals of women and girls in media and 
leverage our scale to influence positive change. 
These initiatives are just some examples of our 
firm-wide commitment to ensuring that our activities 
are in the best interests of our clients. More broadly, 
new products are approved by cross-functional 
committees that include senior executives from 
Risk, Legal, Compliance and other relevant units, 
supported by specialists from Fair Lending, as 
needed. Citi marketing materials are reviewed by our 
Compliance and Legal departments to ensure that 
we communicate clearly and fairly and comply with 
applicable laws, regulations and Citi policies. These 
teams also provide periodic testing or monitoring of 
such materials and disclosures. Each relevant busi -
ness maintains a compliance management process to 
receive and respond to consumer concerns. Treating Customers Fairly
Citi’s Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) Program and 
our U.S. and Global Consumer Fairness Policies 
demonstrate that our culture focuses on the fair 
treatment of customers and encourages employees 
to view fairness as a key element of delivering a 
remarkable experience. The aim of the TCF Program 
is to deliver products and services that provide 
value, clarity and dependability, guided by the 
Fairness Principles that define our standards for our 
products and services. 
The TCF Program provides a framework for review 
of consumer fairness concerns and a sustainable 
model for managing emerging risks. The U.S. and 
Global Consumer Fairness Policies cover all aspects 
of the consumer product and services lifecycle, 
including new product development, marketing, sales 
< Citi’s Fairness Principles
1) Works as described
Customers can predict how the product or 
service will work.
2) Appropriate
Global Consumer Banking provides products and 
services that are appropriate for its customers, 
and customers can rely on the bank to offer 
products that match their needs.
3) Value
Customers receive value that is reasonably 
related to the cost of the product or service.
4) Ease of Understanding 
Customers understand the terms and conditions 
of the products or services (particularly any 
limitations or exclusions).129
HOW WE DO 
BUSINESS
Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Human Rights       
Operations and 
Supply Chain
D i g i t a l  I n n o v a t i o n      
Talent and 
Diversity  
• 
Ethics and  
Culture   
(including incentive compensation), underwriting and 
onboarding as well as all other stages. Citi’s Business 
Practices teams have established formalized esca -
lation processes to facilitate consistent, timely and 
appropriate identification, analysis and escalation 
of potential consumer fairness and reputational and 
franchise risk issues. 
As part of the program, Global Consumer Banking 
employees are required to complete annual fairness 
training to ensure they understand how to identify 
issues of fairness and how fairness influences real-
world results. In 2018, approximately 100,000 Citi 
employees around the world completed the course. 
Fair lending practices are a key component of our 
commitment to treating customers fairly. In 2017, 
we updated our U.S. Fair Lending Policy to provide 
clearer and more specific guidance on consumer 
protection, including clarifying that the prohibition 
against discrimination based on “sex” encompasses 
gender as well as sexual orientation and gender 
identity. This policy establishes the guiding prin -
ciples and minimum standards for fair, equitable 
and nondiscriminatory access to credit. Further, it 
prohibits discrimination against actual or prospec -
tive clients on the basis of race, sex, religion or other 
non-risk related factors. We provide regular trainings 
to relevant employees on the policy and fair lending 
best practices. 
True to our commitment to responsible finance, we 
also hold an annual Fair Lending Offsite with employ -
ees from across the company to ensure that we are 
at the forefront of serving our clients equitably. At 
the 2018 offsite, participants had the opportunity to 
complete nine different “accessibility experiences” 
— demonstrations of how visual, audio and physical 
impairments impact various everyday tasks such as 
reading numbers, listening to instructions or signing 
one’s name — that helped them better understand 
the experience of accessing Citi resources as 
someone with a disability. 
As the external fair lending environment and our 
business strategies continue to evolve, we work to 
continue to update our understanding of key discrim -
ination risks and our approach to preventing discrimi -
nation risks in our business strategies and execution.  Taxation Policies  
and Standards
Citi operates in nearly 100 countries and strictly 
abides by all tax laws in the U.S. and throughout 
the world. We are a current income taxpayer, both 
within and outside the U.S. Our tax profile is consis -
tent with the locations of our business operations, 
and our review and escalation processes enable 
us to adhere to high standards of compliance with 
applicable tax laws. 
We emphasize strong internal controls and transpar -
ency with global tax authorities and share informa -
tion relevant to our tax profile. We supplement this 
transparency with additional country-by-country 
reporting, which is required under the Organisation 
for Economic Co-operation and Development’s 
action plan to address base erosion and profit 
shifting. Our tax policy is overseen by our Chief Tax 
Officer, who reports to the Chief Financial Officer. 
Tax policies and related matters are reviewed by the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
Citi complies with reporting and withholding 
requirements imposed globally on financial insti -
tutions in connection with customer transactions 
that these institutions intermediate. We have 
implemented systems and processes to comply 
with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, and 
we are in compliance with the Common Reporting 
Standard in all applicable countries where local 
implementing guidance has been issued. Similarly, 
we have a firm-wide policy applicable to customer 
transactions under which Citi will only engage 
in a transaction where there is a high degree of 
certainty that any tax aspects will be accepted by 
the respective taxing authorities. 
Beginning in 2018, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 
fundamentally changed the method of taxation of 
international income earned by Citi. As we receive 
further interpretive guidance on the provisions of 
the Act, we continue to apply the same consistent, 
transparent and responsible approach to tax compli -
ance and governance outlined in this report. For 
more information on how taxation impacts Citi, see 
page 114 of our 2018 Form 10-K .130
Public Policy
We engage directly, and indirectly through trade 
associations, with governments and elected officials 
around the world to advocate for public policies that 
support the interests of our company, clients and 
employees in the countries and regions where we 
operate. Guided by our Political Activities Statement, 
which ensures compliance with all applicable laws 
and regulations, we promote policies and positions 
on issues such as trade, cyber security, data local -
ization, tax and financial reforms. Our Government 
Affairs team members complete annual compliance 
training, conducted by outside experts, on campaign 
finance, lobbying and gifts/entertainment rules.
Under U.S. Federal Election Commission rules, Citi’s 
Political Action Committee pools the voluntary 
contributions of eligible employees to support U.S. 
political candidates and campaigns that support the 
financial industry and complementary pro-business 
policies. This support allows us to take an active 
role in our country’s political process, promote our 
business goals and strengthen relationships with U.S. 
policymakers. Annually, we disclose our U.S. political 
contributions on our Corporate Governance webpage . 
That page also includes extensive disclosure about 
our practices pertaining to political contributions and 
lobbying activities, as well as a regularly updated list 
of our significant trade and business associations. 
Our disclosures and contributions are overseen 
by the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs 
Committee of our Board of Directors.   What’s Ahead
Trust will only increase as a key success factor for our 
business and our industry in the years ahead. And 
we can only increase the degree to which we are a 
trusted partner by focusing on our duty to serve our 
clients and customers — and by doing so with integrity 
and transparency. We will continue to invest in build -
ing a culture of ethics across the firm that ensures 
that accountability for responsible business practices 
that are in the best interest of our clients and custom -
ers resides with each and every employee. And we will 
ensure that our activities contribute to sustainable 
economic growth, even as institutions like ours face a 
complex geopolitical environment.
131
Appendices
IN THIS SECTION
pg. 133  Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard
pg. 135  GRI Content Index
pg. 151  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index
pg. 153  United Nations Global Compact Index
pg. 155  United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting Framework Index
pg. 160  Assurance132FPO photo
133
APPENDICES
•  
Scorecard
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
Assurance2018 Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard 
Environmental Finance 
Our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal: To lend, invest and facilitate $100 billion over 10 years  
toward activities that reduce the impacts of climate change and create environmental solutions
Goal Metric By 2018 Progress
Environmental  
finance goal$100 billion 2023 $95.3B
Environmental  
impact tracking*Total annual CO2e emissions avoided 8.5M (MT)
Social impact  
tracking*Jobs supported by renewable energy project finance and tax 
equity activity (includes direct, indirect and induced jobs)131K jobs
Annual riders on transit system projects 14B rides
People serviced by water-quality projects 56M people
Families serviced by affordable housing activity 5K families
* These potential impacts represent the positive environmental and social benefits of a subset of our environmental finance transactions.
Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM)
Manage environmental and social risks and impacts associated with client transactions and our  
financial products and services
Goal 2018 Progress
ESRM Policy  
continuous 
improvements• First major U.S. bank to create a U.S. 
Commercial Firearms Policy requir -
ing applicable clients to follow best 
practices for the sale of firearms• Adopted global coal-fired power generation policy 
prohibiting project-related finance (except in limited 
cases of energy poverty) and created approach for 
sector-wide engagement
• Revised and expanded Statement on Human Rights, 
identifying additional salient human rights risks
Internal  
training• Revamped and relaunched our 
ESRM online training modules, 
including the Equator Principles 
Association’s e-training module• Trained more than 900 employees on ESRM policies and 
procedures, including targeted trainings on the new U.S. 
Commercial Firearms Policy
Portfolio-level 
analysis of  
high-risk sectors• Screened our portfolio for 
clients covered by the new U.S. 
Commercial Firearms Policy• Direct ESRM engagement with oil and gas clients in Texas, 
U.S., and Calgary, Canada, on environmental, health and 
safety performance; climate risk analysis; decarboniza -
tion efforts; community engagement; and transparency
Monitoring  
of emerging  
risks and trends• Ongoing monitoring of Citi portfo -
lio using external ESG data provid -
ers and internal criteria to flag 
higher-risk names for the ESRM 
Watchlist• Tracked developments regarding potential oil and gas 
development in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in 
Alaska and met with indigenous and environmental 
stakeholders to listen to concerns
Building global 
capacity• Contributed to the Roundtable 
on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) 
Financial Institutions Task Force’s 
enhancement of RSPO Principles 
and Criteria, including integration of 
the No Deforestation, No Peat, No 
Exploitation standard• Co-led a training workshop at the UN Biodiversity 
Conference on effective biodiversity mitigation techniques,  
which demonstrated industry support for conservation 
efforts proposed at the conference; training is being 
replicated for hundreds of biodiversity practitioners 
around the world134Operations 
Minimize our impacts across Citi’s entire portfolio of 7,500 owned and leased facilities
Goal Metric By 2018 Progress
Environmental  
footprint100% use of renewable 
energy for facilities globally2020 62%*
30% reduction in energy 
consumption (compared with 
2005 baseline)2020 32%
30% reduction in water 
consumption (compared with 
2005 baseline)2020 33%
10% of water used coming 
from reclaimed or recycled 
sources2020 5%
60% diversion rate of waste 
to landfill (compared with 
2005 baseline)2020 63%
33% of global real estate 
portfolio LEED-certified2020 25%
* Contracted amount of renewable energy for delivery in 2020
 
Supply Chain 
Work with our suppliers to ensure that they meet high environmental and social standards
Goal Metric By 2018 Progress
Establish supply chain policies:
• Paper and paper products
• IT hardware and e-waste disposal
• Travel and logisticsPolicies finalized and 
implemented2019 • Attached position statements to existing policies or 
established new policies 
• Working on establishing alignment with sourcing manag -
ers, training, progress metrics and procedures
Update Statement of  
Supplier PrinciplesStatement updated and 
disseminated2019 • Formally updated the Statement of Supplier Principles 
and published it on the Citi website
Integration of Supplier Principles  
into master contractsSupplier Principles inte -
grated into 100% of master 
contracts for suppliers2019 • Included the Supplier Principles in 100% of master 
contracts; working with sourcing leads to integrate the 
Principles into master contracts moving forward
Corporate Responsibility 
Questionnaire (CRQ) rolled out  
to all regions100% of suppliers complete 
the CRQ2019 • 100% of top-tier suppliers have completed the CRQ; 
continued to systematize the inclusion of the CRQ within 
the supplier selection process
Internal/external training 100% of Enterprise Supply 
Chain (ESC) employees 
complete training2019 • 90% of ESC employees have completed training
100% of suppliers  
complete training2019 • 90% of all suppliers have completed training135
APPENDICES
Scorecard
• 
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
AssuranceGRI Content Index
We prepared this report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. We 
also reported on many disclosures  beyond the Core reporting option, including disclosures from the Financial 
Services Sector Supplement. The following index provides readers with references for where they can find 
information in this report and other public documents addressing GRI disclosures  relevant to our business.
Please visit the GRI website for the full text of the disclosures  and other information on the GRI reporting framework.
GRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
GRI 101: Foundation 2016 [GRI 101 Does not include any disclosures]
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016
102-1 Name of the 
organizationFully Citigroup Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, 
products and 
servicesFully • Citi at a Glance 
• 2018 10-K pages 4-5  
102-3 Location of 
headquartersFully 388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013
102-4 Location of 
operationsFully • Letter from Our CEO
• Citi at a Glance 
• Citi Website — Countries and Jurisdictions  
102-5 Ownership and legal 
formFully • 2018 10-K page 4  
102-6 Markets served Fully • Letter from Our CEO
• Citi at a Glance
• 2018 10-K pages 4-8  
102-7 Scale of the 
organizationFully • Citi at a Glance
• 2018 10-K pages 4-8  
102-8 Information on 
employees and 
other workersFully • Talent and Diversity > Citi’s Global Workforce
Citi may engage external service providers who may be responsible for 
performing non-core business activities, or non-employee resources 
who are employed by an external third party but support Citi processes. 
These non-employee resources could be working under Citi supervision 
or be working under the supervision of an external third party in the 
third party’s facility. Citi may engage external service providers or 
non-employees for a variety of different business purposes, including 
project-based work for a defined period of time, specialized/niche skill 
sets that are not readily available, or professional and outsourced 
services. There are no significant variations in employment numbers 
(such as seasonal variations in employment).
102-9 Supply chain Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing  
102-10 Significant changes 
to the organization 
and its supply chainFully • 2018 Annual Report
For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the  
GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 
102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report.136GRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
102-11 Precautionary  
principle or 
approachFully As discussed in the respective sections of this report, we evaluate and 
address risks as part of our Environmental and Social Risk Management 
(ESRM) efforts. Our ESRM Policy prohibits activities we believe pose 
risks to us, our clients and our stakeholders. This may include taking 
precautionary actions.
102-12 External initiatives Fully • CDP
• Equator Principles
• International Finance 
Corporation’s 
Environmental and Social 
Performance Standards
• International Finance 
Corporation’s 
Environmental, Health and 
Safety Guidelines
• International Labour 
Organization's Core 
Conventions
• Natural Capital Declaration • RE100
• Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil
• Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures 
• UN Environment Programme Finance 
Initiative
• UN Global Compact 
• UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights
• UN Sustainable Development Goals
• UN Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights 
• Wolfsberg Principles
102-13 Membership of 
associations Fully • Ethics and Culture > Industry Collaboration 
• Ethics and Culture > Public Policy
102-14 Statement 
from senior 
decision-makerFully • Letter from Our CEO
102-15 Key impacts, risks 
and opportunitiesFully • Letter from Our CEO
• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi  
• Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context  
• Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy
• 2018 10-K pages 54-63
102-16 Values, principles, 
standards and 
norms of behavior Fully • About This Report
• Ethics and Culture
• Citi Code of Conduct
• Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals  
102-17 Mechanisms for 
advice and concerns 
about ethicsFully • Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi
• Ethics Hotline
102-18 Governance 
structure Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2019 Proxy Statement pages 29-37
• Board Charters  
• Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 1, 5
• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter
• Board of Directors  137
APPENDICES
Scorecard
• 
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
AssuranceGRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
102-19 Delegating 
authority Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2019 Proxy Statement pages 45-49
• Board Charters   
102-20 Executive-level 
responsibility  
for economic, 
environmental  
and social topics Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2019 Proxy Statement pages 45-49
• Board Charters
102-21 Consulting  
stakeholders  
on economic, 
environmental  
and social topics Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi  
• Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi 
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: Working to 
Improve Habitat Conservation and Labor Conditions in the Palm Oil 
Industry
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights 
• 2019 Proxy Statement pages 45-49
• Board Charters  
102-22 Composition of  
the highest  
governance body 
and its committees Fully • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 32-37, 50-64
102-23 Chair of the highest 
governance body Fully The Chairman of the Board is a nonexecutive, independent director.
• 2019 Proxy Statement page 29
102-24 Nominating and 
selecting the 
highest governance 
body Fully • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 45-49
• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter  
102-25 Conflicts of interest Fully • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 26, 40, 97
102-26 Role of highest 
governance body 
in setting purpose, 
values and strategyFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2019 Proxy Statement page 22
102-27 Collective knowl -
edge of highest 
governance bodyFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
102-28 Evaluating the 
highest governance 
body’s performance Fully • 2019 Proxy Statement pages 45-49
• Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 5-6  
102-29 Identifying 
and managing 
economic,  
environmental  
and social  
impactsFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi 
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation 
• Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions
• Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on 
Human Rights
• Risk Management Committee Charter
• 2019 Proxy Statement pages 26-37
• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter138GRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
102-30 Effectiveness of 
risk management 
processes Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter
102-31 Review of 
economic,  
environmental  
and social topicsFully At least annually
• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2019 Proxy Statement page 29
102-32 Highest gover -
nance body’s role 
in sustainability 
reporting Fully • Executive Vice President, Global Public Affairs
102-33 Communicating 
critical concernsFully • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk
• Citi Code of Conduct  
• 2019 Proxy Statement page 42
102-35 Remuneration 
policiesFully • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices
• Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter
• 2019 Proxy Statement page 65-68
102-36 Process for 
determining 
remuneration Fully • Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices
• Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter
• 2019 Proxy Statement page 65-68
102-37 Stakeholders’ 
involvement in 
remuneration Fully • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities
• Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter
102-40 List of stakeholder 
groups Fully • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi 
102-41 Collective bargain -
ing agreementsFully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
102-42 Identifying 
and selecting 
stakeholders Fully • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi 
• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights 
• Ethics and Culture > Industry Collaboration
102-43 Approach to stake -
holder engagementFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi  
• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights
102-44 Key topics and 
concerns raisedFully • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi  
• Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on 
Human Rights
• Ethics and Culture > Industry Collaboration
102-45 Entities included 
in the consoli -
dated financial 
statements Fully • 2018 10-K pages 4-5
102-46 Defining report 
content and topic 
Boundaries Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context139
APPENDICES
Scorecard
• 
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
AssuranceGRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
102-47 List of material 
topics Fully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
102-48 Restatements of 
informationFully Environmental Finance > Impact Data
102-49 Changes in 
reporting Fully There are no significant changes from the previous reporting period.
102-50 Reporting period Fully This report covers fiscal and calendar year 2018.
102-51 Date of most recent 
report Fully April 2018
102-52 Reporting cycle Fully Annual
102-53 Contact point for 
questions regarding 
the report Fully Global Public Affairs  
Citigroup Inc.  
388 Greenwich Street  
New York, NY 10013  
citizenship@citi.com
102-54 Claims of reporting 
in accordance with 
the GRI StandardsFully This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option.
102-55 GRI content index Fully • GRI Content Index
102-56 External assurance Fully We secure external assurance annually for data related to our reporting on 
the Equator Principles, transactions covered by Environmental and Social 
Risk Management reviews, and environmental data for our operations.
• Assurance
Economic performance
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2  The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2018 10-K pages 6-8  
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2018 10-K pages 6-8  
GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016201-1 Direct 
economic value 
generated and 
distributedFully • 2018 10-K pages 6-8
201-2  Financial 
implications and 
other risks and 
opportunities due 
to climate changeFully • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related 
Disclosures  
• Environmental Finance > Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal 
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Climate-Related Risk
• Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental 
Impacts 
• 2018 10-K page 71
201-3  Defined 
benefit plan obli -
gations and other 
retirement plansFully • Citi Benefits Online140GRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
Market Presence
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citi’s Value Proposition
• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2018 10-K pages 4-8  
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Citi’s Value Proposition
• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2018 10-K pages 4-8   
GRI 202: 
Market 
Presence 
2016202-1 Ratios of 
standard entry level 
wage by gender 
compared to local 
minimum wage Fully We provide competitive levels of compensation that meet or exceed local 
minimum wage requirements. Competitive wages and benefit programs 
may vary according to country and/or location. Most employees are 
hired locally.
202-2 Proportion of 
senior management 
hired from the local 
communityFully Most employees are hired locally. When hiring for senior management, 
we may consider qualified candidates from across the globe.
Indirect economic impacts
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Inclusive and Resilient Communities  
• Environmental Finance
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Inclusive and Resilient Communities  
• Environmental Finance > Working Toward Our Goal
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Inclusive and Resilient Communities  
• Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved 
Through Our $100 Billion Goal
GRI 203: 
Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts 2016203-1  Infrastructure 
investments and 
services supportedFully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Infrastructure
• Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Affordable Housing and 
Homeownership
• Environmental Finance
203-2 Significant 
indirect economic 
impactsFully • Citi’s Value Proposition
• Inclusive and Resilient Communities  
• Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved 
Through Our $100 Billion Goal  141
APPENDICES
Scorecard
• 
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
AssuranceGRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
Anti-corruption
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2  The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi  
• Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi  
• Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk
GRI 205:  
Anti-
Corruption 
2016205-1  Operations 
assessed for 
risks related to 
corruptionFully • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk  
• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Statement 
205-2 Communication 
and training about 
anti-corruption poli -
cies and proceduresFully We do not report quantitatively on training for management or business 
partners. 
• Ethics and Culture > Ethics and Culture at Citi  
• Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk  
• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Statement  
Anti-competitive behavior
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2018 10-K pages 54-57, 276-282  
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• 2018 10-K pages 54-57, 276-282     
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive 
Behavior 2016206-1 Legal actions 
for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust 
and monopoly 
practicesFully • 2018 10-K pages 54-57, 276-282    
Energy
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related 
Disclosures
• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts
• Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures
• Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts
• Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard142GRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
GRI 302: 
Energy 2016302-1  Energy 
consumption within 
the organizationFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for 
Operations
• Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report
302-3 Energy intensity Fully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report
302-4 Reduction 
of energy 
consumptionFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for 
Operations
• Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report
Emissions
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures 
• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts
• Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related Disclosures 
• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts
• Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard
GRI 305: 
Emissions 
2016305-1  Direct (Scope 1)  
GHG emissionsFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations
• Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report
305-2 Energy indirect 
(Scope 2)  
GHG emissionsFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations
305-3 Other indirect 
(Scope 3)  
GHG emissionsFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report
305-4 GHG emissions 
intensityFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report
305-5 Reduction of 
GHG emissionsFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for Operations
• Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report
Effluents and waste
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context 
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts
• Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts
• Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard
GRI 306: 
Effluents and 
Waste 2016306-2  Waste by 
type and disposal 
methodFully Citi did not generate any hazardous waste during the reporting period.
• Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report143
APPENDICES
Scorecard
• 
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
AssuranceGRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
Supplier environmental assessment
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing
• Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing
• Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard
GRI 308: 
Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 
2016308-1 New suppliers 
that were screened 
using environmen-
tal criteriaFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
• Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard
Employment
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities
GRI 401: 
Employment 
2016401-1 New employee 
hires and employee 
turnoverFully • Talent and Diversity > Citi’s Global Workforce
401-2 Benefits 
provided to full-time 
employees that 
are not provided to 
temporary or part-
time employeesFully • Talent and Diversity > Workforce Well-Being
• Citi Benefits Online
Training and education
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Talent and Diversity > Development and Retention
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Talent and Diversity > Development and Retention
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Talent and Diversity > Development and Retention144GRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
GRI 404: 
Training and 
Education 
2016404-1 Average hours 
of training per year 
per employeeFully • Talent and Diversity > Learning and Evaluation
• Talent and Diversity > Global Employee Training 2018
404-2 Programs 
for upgrading 
employee skills and 
transition assis -
tance programsFully • Talent and Diversity > Learning and Evaluation
404-3 Percentage of 
employees receiving 
regular performance 
and career develop -
ment reviewsFully • Talent and Diversity > Learning and Evaluation
Diversity and equal opportunity
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights  
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities
• Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Talent and Diversity > Our Diversity Priorities
• Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices
GRI 405: 
Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 
2016405-1 Diversity of 
governance bodies 
and employeesFully • 2019 Proxy Statement page 30
• Board of Directors  
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices
GRI 407: 
Freedom of 
Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 
2016407-1 Operations and 
suppliers in which 
the right to freedom 
of association and 
collective bargain -
ing may be at riskFully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees  145
APPENDICES
Scorecard
• 
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
AssuranceGRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
Child labor
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions   
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners 
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
103-3 Evaluation  
of the management 
approachFully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners 
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
GRI 408:  
Child Labor 
2016408-1 Operations  
and suppliers at  
significant risk  
for incidents  
of child laborFully We have not identified any operations as having significant risk for inci -
dents of child labor. Our business overall is not at high risk because of 
the nature of work in the financial services industry. In addition, we do 
not directly source high-risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals 
or any other raw materials, goods or services in significant amounts 
from suppliers in high-risk jurisdictions.
Forced or compulsory labor
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights  
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners 
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions   
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners 
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions  
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners 
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions  
GRI 409: 
Forced or 
Compulsory 
Labor 2016409-1 Operations 
and suppliers at 
significant risk for 
incidents of forced 
or compulsory 
laborFully We have not identified any operations as having significant risk for inci -
dents of forced or compulsory labor. Our own business operations are 
not at high risk because of the nature of work in the financial services 
industry; however, we have flagged institutional clients where due 
diligence indicates the possibility of some occurrence of forced labor 
or compulsory labor and have taken appropriate mitigating steps. In 
addition, while we do not directly source high risk agricultural commod -
ities, conflict minerals, or other raw materials in significant amounts 
from suppliers in high risk jurisdictions, we have identified EMEA-based 
suppliers that, based on their sector and geography, are more at risk for 
the occurrence of forced labor or human trafficking than other suppliers 
in other sectors and geographies. We have prioritized our engagement 
with those higher-risk suppliers to further mitigate potential risk.
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners 146GRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
Rights of indigenous peoples
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
GRI 411: 
Rights of 
Indigenous 
Peoples 2016411-1 Incidents of  
violations involving  
rights of 
Indigenous PeoplesFully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation
• Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on 
Human Rights
Human rights assessment
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners 
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions  
• Citi Statement on Human Rights  
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles  
• Citi Standards for Suppliers  
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
GRI 412: 
Human Rights 
Assessment 
2016412-1 Operations that 
have been subject 
to human rights 
reviews or impact 
assessmentsFully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation
• Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on 
Human Rights
412-2 Employee 
training on human 
rights policies or 
proceduresFully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Enhancing Our Training 
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Citi Code of Conduct  
412-3 Significant 
investment agree -
ments and contracts 
that include human 
rights clauses or that 
underwent human 
rights screeningFully • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on 
Human Rights147
APPENDICES
Scorecard
• 
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
AssuranceGRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
Local communities
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Inclusive and Resilient Communities
• Environmental Finance  
• Environmental and Social Risk Management  
• Operations and Supply Chain
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Inclusive and Resilient Communities  
• Environmental Finance  
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy
• Operations and Supply Chain > Employee Engagement
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities
• Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved 
Through Our $100 Billion Goal
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation
• Operations and Supply Chain > Employee Engagement
GRI 413:  
Local 
Communities 
2016413-1 Operations 
with local commu -
nity engagement, 
impact assess -
ments and develop -
ment programsPartially • Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi 
• Inclusive and Resilient Communities
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing 
Risk Landscape
• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights
• Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions
413-2 Operations 
with significant 
actual and potential 
negative impacts on 
local communitiesFully • Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing 
Risk Landscape
• Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
Financial 
Sector 
SupplementFS13 Access points 
in low-populated  
or economically 
disadvantaged 
areas by typeFully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion
• Digital Innovation > Customer-Centric Solutions  
FS14 Initiatives to 
improve access to 
financial services 
for disadvantaged 
peopleFully • Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion
• Digital Innovation > Customer-Centric Solutions  
Supplier social assessment
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
• Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard148GRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
GRI 414: 
Supplier 
Social 
Assessment 
2016414-1 New suppliers 
that were screened 
using social criteriaFully • Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
• Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard
Public policy
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Ethics and Culture > Public Policy
• Citi Political Activities Statement  
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Ethics and Culture > Public Policy
• Citi Political Activities Statement  
GRI 415: 
Public Policy 
2016415-1 Political 
contributionsFully • Citi U.S. Political Contributions  
Marketing and labeling
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
GRI 417: 
Marketing and 
Labeling 2016417-1 Requirements 
for product and 
service information 
and labelingFully • Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
Customer privacy
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer 
Information  
• Citi Code of Conduct  
• Citi Online Privacy Statement  
• Citi Security Center  
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer 
Information
• Citi Code of Conduct  
• Citi Online Privacy Statement  
• Citi Security Center  149
APPENDICES
Scorecard
• 
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
AssuranceGRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
GRI 418: 
Customer 
Privacy 2016418-1 Substantiated 
complaints concern -
ing breaches of 
customer privacy 
and losses of 
customer dataFully • Digital Innovation > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer 
Information  
Socioeconomic compliance
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk
• Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
• 2018 10-K pages 56-64  
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk
• Ethics and Culture > Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
• 2018 10-K pages 56-64  
GRI 419: 
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 
2016 419-1 Non-compliance 
with laws and  
regulations in  
the social and  
economic areaFully • 2018 10-K pages 56-64  
• 2018 Annual Report150GRI  
StandardDisclosure Number 
and Title Reporting 
StatusReport Section or  
Other Documentation
FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPPLEMENT
Product Portfolio
GRI 103: 
Management 
Approach 
2016103-1 Explanation of 
the material topic 
and its boundaryFully • Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
103-2 The manage -
ment approach and 
its components Fully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion  
• 2018 10-K pages 6-14  
103-3 Evaluation of 
the management 
approachFully • Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Inclusive and Resilient Communities > Financial Inclusion 
• 2018 10-K pages 6-14  
Financial 
Sector 
SupplementFS6 Percentage of 
the portfolio for 
business lines by 
specific region, size 
(e.g., micro/SME/
large) and by sectorFully • 2018 10-K pages 6-14  
FS8 Monetary value 
of products and 
services designed 
to deliver a specific 
environmental 
benefit for each 
business line 
broken down by 
purposeFully • Environmental Finance > Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental Finance 
Goal
• Environmental Finance > Environmental and Social Impacts Achieved 
Through Our $100 Billion Goal
• Sustainable Progress Strategy Scorecard151
APPENDICES
Scorecard
GRI Index
• 
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
AssuranceTask Force on Climate-related  
Financial Disclosures Index
In 2018, Citi published Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future — a detailed report of our activities and progress 
in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
The release of that report and our participation in a UN Environment Finance Initiative pilot project to imple -
ment the recommendations related to climate scenario analysis, as outlined in more detail in this report , are 
important aspects of Citi’s commitment to transparency and strategic management of our risks and opportu -
nities. We also continue to highlight relevant climate disclosures in this Global Citizenship Report. 
The following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the TCFD requirements, either 
in this report or other publicly available documents.
Disclosure Report Section or Other Documentation
Governance a)  Describe the Board’s 
oversight of climate-  
related risks and 
opportunities.• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter, page 3 
b)  Describe management’s 
role in assessing and 
managing climate-related 
risks and opportunities.• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship and Sustainability Governance
Strategy a)  Describe the climate- 
related risks and opportu -
nities the organization has 
identified over the short, 
medium and long term.• Environmental Finance
• Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework
• Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future
b)  Describe the impact of 
climate-related risks  
and opportunities on  
the organization’s  
businesses, strategy  
and financial planning.• Environmental Finance
• Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework
• Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future
c)  Describe the resilience 
of the organization’s 
strategy, taking into 
consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, 
including a 2°C or lower 
scenario.• Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related 
Disclosures
• Finance for a Climate-Resilient Future152Disclosure Report Section or Other Documentation
Risk 
Managementa)  Describe the organi -
zation’s processes for 
identifying and assessing 
climate-related risks.• Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy 
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework 
b)  Describe the organiza -
tion’s processes  
for managing climate-  
related risks.• Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Operations and Supply Chain
• Citi’s Sustainable Progress Strategy
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework
c)  Describe how processes 
for identifying, assess -
ing and managing 
climate-related risks 
are integrated into the 
organization’s overall 
risk management.• Citizenship Approach > Our Material Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Environmental and Social Risk Management
• 2018 10-K pages 71 and 295 
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework
Metrics and 
Targetsa)  Disclose the metrics 
used by the organization 
to assess climate-related 
risks and opportunities 
in line with its strategy 
and risk management 
process.• Environmental Finance
• Environmental and Social Risk Management  
• Operations and Supply Chain > 2020 Goals
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework
b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 
2 and, if appropriate, 
Scope 3 greenhouse 
gas emissions, and the 
related risks.• Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for 
Operations
• Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Impact Report
c)  Describe the targets  
used by the organization 
to manage climate-related  
risks and opportunities 
and performance against 
targets.• Operations and Supply Chain > 2020 Goals
• Operations and Supply Chain > Environmental Performance for 
Operations“Integrating climate analyses into financial institutions’ work is a positive 
development that will allow for smarter long-term planning and more 
transparent reporting to stakeholders. We are proud of the hard work that 
Citi and our industry colleagues have put toward these efforts thus far and 
look forward to continuing to work with them.”
—  Brandee McHale, Head of Corporate Citizenship, Citi and Co-Chair of UN Environment 
Finance Initiative Global Steering Committee153
APPENDICES
Scorecard
GRI Index
TCFD Index
• 
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
AssuranceUnited Nations Global Compact Index
This report serves as our 2018 communication on progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). 
Citi joined the UNGC in 2010, and we continue to embed the Compact’s 10 principles across our business and 
report on activities related to human rights, labor issues, the environment and anti-corruption. 
UNGC Principle Report Section or Other Documentation
Human Rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support and 
respect the protection of internationally 
proclaimed human rights; and• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights  
• Citi Code of Conduct
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
Principle 2: make sure that they are not 
complicit in human rights abuses.• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing Risk 
Landscape
• Human Rights
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
Labor
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the 
freedom of association and the effective 
recognition of the right to collective 
bargaining;• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of 
forced and compulsory labor;• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: Working to 
Improve Habitat Conservation and Labor Conditions in the Palm Oil Industry
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles
• Citi Standards for Suppliers  
Principle 5: the effective abolition  
of child labor; and• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: Working to 
Improve Habitat Conservation and Labor Conditions in the Palm Oil Industry
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights  
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles
• Citi Standards for Suppliers  154UNGC Principle Report Section or Other Documentation
Principle 6: the elimination of discrim -
ination in respect of employment and 
occupation.• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners
• Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices
• Citi Code of Conduct
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
Environment
Principle 7: Businesses should support a 
precautionary approach to environmental 
challenges;• Citizenship Approach > Citi’s Support for Global Climate-Related 
Disclosures
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Monitoring the Changing Risk 
Landscape
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Climate-Related Risk
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to 
promote greater environmental responsi -
bility; and• Environmental Finance
• Operations and Supply Chain 
Principle 9: encourage the development 
and diffusion of environmentally friendly 
technologies.• Environmental Finance 
Anti-Corruption
Principle 10: Businesses should work 
against corruption in all its forms, including 
extortion and bribery.• Digital Innovation > Case Study: Tech for Integrity
• Ethics and Culture > Managing Compliance Risk 
• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program  
• Citi Code of Conduct
“Citi supports the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact 
as an important part of its business strategy and ethical culture. Our 
participation in this important initiative, which binds signatories from 
around the world to a common set of principles of responsibility, rein -
forces our commitment to corporate citizenship and sustainability.”
— Michael L. Corbat, Chief Executive Officer, Citigroup Inc.155
APPENDICES
Scorecard
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
• 
UNGP Index
AssuranceUnited Nations Guiding Principles  
Reporting Framework Index
We have included information and disclosures in this report aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles 
reporting framework. This reflects our support of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
and our commitment to transparency and accountability regarding our human rights-related activities and 
policies. The following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the framework 
requirements, either in this report or other publicly available documents. 
Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation
Part A: Governance of respect for human rights
Policy 
commitmentA1 What does the company say publicly about its commitment to respect human rights?
A1.1 How has the public 
commitment been 
developed?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 
A1.2 Whose human rights does 
the public commitment 
address?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights  
• Citi Statement on Human Rights  
A1.3 How is the public commit -
ment disseminated?• Ethics and Culture > Code of Conduct
• The following documents, which state Citi’s commitment to respect 
human rights and our expectations about the commitment of 
others, are posted publicly: 
• Citi Code of Conduct  
• Citi Standards for Suppliers    
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles  
• Citi Statement on Human Rights  
Embedding 
respect for 
human rightsA2 How does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to the implementation of its 
human rights commitment?
A2.1 How is day-to-day  
responsibility for human 
rights performance  
organized within the 
company, and why?• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation
• Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions
• Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing  
A2.2 What kinds of human 
rights issues are 
discussed by senior 
management and by the 
Board, and why?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 
A2.3 How are employees and 
contract workers made 
aware of the ways in 
which respect for human 
rights should inform their 
decisions and actions?• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Ethics and Culture > Code of Conduct  
• Citi Code of Conduct  156Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation
Embedding 
respect for 
human rightsA2.4 How does the company 
make clear in its business 
relationships the impor -
tance it places on respect 
for human rights?• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing 
Decisions
• Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing
• Citi Standards for Suppliers   
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles
A2.5 What lessons has the 
company learned during 
the reporting period 
about achieving respect 
for human rights, and 
what has changed as a 
result?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing 
Decisions
Part B: Defining the focus of reporting
Statement of 
salient issuesB1 State the salient human 
rights issues associated 
with the company’s 
activities and business 
relationships during the 
reporting period.• Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks
• Human Rights > Salient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder Impacts
• Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
Determination 
of salient 
issuesB2 Describe how the 
salient human rights 
issues were determined, 
including any input from 
stakeholders.• Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks
Choice 
of focal 
geographiesB3 If reporting on the salient 
human rights issues 
focuses on particular 
geographies, explain how 
that choice was made.This report provides a breakdown of our human rights due diligence 
for several salient risks at the project level and a separate breakdown 
of our due diligence of these and other environmental and social risks 
at a regional level for purposes of fulfilling the transparency require -
ments of the Equator Principles. 
• Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on 
Human Rights 
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > 2018 Projects 
Covered by the Equator Principles157
APPENDICES
Scorecard
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
• 
UNGP Index
AssuranceSection of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation
Additional  
severe 
impactsB4 Identify any severe 
impacts on human rights 
that occurred or were 
still being addressed 
during the reporting 
period, but which fall 
outside of the salient 
human rights issues, and 
explain how they have 
been addressed. 
Part C: Management of salient human rights issues
Specific  
policiesC1 Does the company have any specific policies that address its salient human rights issues and, 
if so, what are they?
C1.1 How does the company 
make clear the relevance 
and significance of such 
policies to those who 
need to implement them?• Environmental Social and Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Enhancing Our 
Training  
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees  
• Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
• Citi Code of Conduct  
• Citi Standards for Suppliers     
Stakeholder 
engagementC2 What is the company’s approach to engagement with stakeholders in relation to each salient 
human rights issue?
C2.1 How does the company 
identify which stakehold -
ers to engage with in 
relation to each salient 
issue, and when and how 
to do so?• Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights 
C2.2 During the reporting 
period, which stakehold -
ers has the company 
engaged with regarding 
each salient issue, and 
why?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 
• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights  
C2.3 During the reporting 
period, how have the 
views of stakeholders 
influenced the company’s 
understanding of each 
salient issue and/or its 
approach to addressing 
it?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 
• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders on Human Rights  158Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation
Assessing 
impactsC3 How does the company identify any changes in the nature of each salient human rights issue 
over time?
C3.1 During the reporting 
period, were there 
any notable trends or 
patterns in impacts 
related to a salient issue 
and, if so, what were 
they?• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
C3.2 During the reporting 
period, did any severe 
impacts occur that were 
related to a salient issue 
and, if so, what were 
they? 
Integrating 
findings and 
taking actionC4 How does the company integrate its findings about each salient human rights issue into its 
decision-making processes and actions?
C4.1 How are those parts 
of the company whose 
decisions and actions can 
affect the management 
of salient issues, involved 
in finding and implement -
ing solutions?• Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi
• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing 
Decisions
C4.2 When tensions arise 
between the prevention 
or mitigation of impacts 
related to a salient issue 
and other business 
objectives, how are these 
tensions addressed?• Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing 
Decisions
• Operations and Supply Chain > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
C4.3 During the reporting 
period, what action 
has the company taken 
to prevent or mitigate 
potential impacts related 
to each salient issue?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our 
Suppliers and Partners  
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing 
Decisions  
Tracking 
performanceC5 How does the company know if its efforts to address each salient human rights issue are 
effective in practice?
C5.1 What specific examples 
from the reporting period 
illustrate whether each 
salient issue is being 
managed effectively?In 2018, we identified risks of impacts to Indigenous Peoples, 
forced labor and child labor in a number of transactions. We took 
steps to mitigate the risks of those impacts or otherwise declined 
involvement in those transactions or ceased our relationships with 
those clients.
• Human Rights > Case Study: Applying Our Policies to Protect Human 
Rights and Reduce Risk159
APPENDICES
Scorecard
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
• 
AssuranceSection of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation
Remediation C6 How does the company enable effective remedy if people are harmed by its actions or decisions 
in relation to a salient human rights issue?
C6.1 Through what means 
can the company receive 
complaints or concerns 
related to each salient 
issue?• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions  
• Ethics and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns 
• Citi Code of Conduct 
• Citi Standards for Suppliers    
C6.2 How does the company 
know if people feel able 
and empowered to raise 
complaints or concerns?• Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions
• Ethics and Culture > Ethics Program
• Ethics and Culture > Spotlight on Ethics
• Ethics and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns 
C6.3 How does the company 
process complaints and 
assess the effectiveness of 
outcomes?• Human Rights > Human Rights Due Diligence in Client Transactions 
• Ethics and Culture > Ethics Program
• Ethics and Culture > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns 
• Citi Code of Conduct  
C6.4 During the reporting period, 
what were the trends and 
patterns in complaints 
or concerns and their 
outcomes regarding each 
salient issue, and what 
lessons has the company 
learned?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 
• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
C6.5 During the reporting period, 
did the company provide 
or enable remedy for any 
actual impacts related to a 
salient issue and, if so, what 
are typical or significant 
examples?• Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy160Assurance
161
APPENDICES
Scorecard
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
• 
Assurance
162
163
APPENDICES
Scorecard
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
• 
Assurance
164
165
APPENDICES
Scorecard
GRI Index
TCFD Index
UNGC Index
UNGP Index
• 
Assurance
166
© 2019 Citigroup Inc.
Citi, Citi with Arc Design and Citibank are trademarks and servicemarks of Citigroup Inc.  
(and its affiliates) and are used and registered throughout the world.