2021
Environmental, Social
& Governance Report
ESG at Citi
5	 Letter 	from 	Our	CEO
8	 Our	ESG	Strategy
10	 ESG	Governance 	at	Citi
13	 Our 	Material 	ESG	Issues: 	Citi	in	a	Global 	Context
16	 Citi	and	the	Sustainable 	Development 	Goals
17	 Stakeholder 	Engagement 	at	Citi
Sustainable Finance20
	 Our	$1	Trillion 	Commitment
Sustainable Progress33
	 Financing 	the	Low-Carbon 	Transition
37	 Climate 	Risk	and	Net	Zero
50	 Sustainable 	Operations
Equitable and Resilient Communities62
	 Our	Commitment 	to	Social 	Finance
66	 Action for Racial Equity
70	 Citi	Impact 	Fund
72	 COVID-19 	Relief 	and	Recovery
75	 Affordable 	Housing
78	 Strategic 	Philanthropy
Talent and Diversity , Equity & Inclusion
81	 Return 	to	Office 	and	the	Future 	of	Work
83	 Diversity, 	Equity 	&	Inclusion
97	 Using 	Our	Corporate 	Voice 	to	Drive 	Change
99	 Employment 	Data
Risk Management and Responsible Business104
	Our	Transformation
110	 Risk	Management
121	 Serving 	Our	Customers 	and	Clients 	Responsibly
125 	Human 	Rights
134 	Responsible 	Sourcing
Appendices139
	GRI	Content 	Index
150 	Sustainability 	Accounting 	Standards 	Board 	Index
155 	The	Principles 	for	Responsible 	Banking 	Index
168 	Task	Force 	on	Climate-related 	Financial 		
	 Disclosures 	Index
170 	United 	Nations 	Global 	Compact 	Index
172 	United 	Nations 	Guiding 	Principles 	Reporting 		
	 Framework 	Index
176	Assurance
Table 	of	
	 ContentsContents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
2
About 	This	
	 Report
This report illustrates how we bring our mission to life through our business; it covers 
our environmental, social and governance (ESG) activities, performance and approach 
for calendar year 2021, focusing on the issues we have determined to be of material1 
importance  from an ESG perspective, which is a broader standard than that used in our 
financial disclosures. 
This	report 	has	been 	prepared 	in	accordance 	with	the	GRI	Standards: 	Core 	option. 	We	also	used 	three 	relevant 	
sector 	standards 	from 	the	Sustainability 	Accounting 	Standards 	Board, 	the	Principles 	for	Responsible 	Banking, 	
the	United 	Nations 	(UN) 	Global 	Compact 	and	the	UN	Guiding 	Principles 	on	Business 	and	Human 	Rights 	
frameworks 	to	guide 	our	reporting. 	(See	related 	indexes .)	
We	have 	embedded 	the	UN	Sustainable 	Development 	Goals 	into	relevant 	sections 	of	the	report 	where 	Citi	plays 	
a	direct 	role	in	making 	progress 	toward 	specific 	goals. 	Additionally, 	we	include 	an	index 	that	indicates 	where 	
report 	content 	is	specifically 	aligned 	to	the	recommendations 	of	the	Financial 	Stability 	Board’s 	Task 	Force 	
on	Climate-related 	Financial 	Disclosures. 	Finally, 	this	report 	supplements 	information 	published 	in	our	2021 	
Annual 	R eport .	
All	reporting 	and	performance 	data	are	limited 	to	information 	for	the	owned 	and	o perated 	 facilities 	 of 	 Citigroup 	
Inc.	a nd 	i ts 	su bsidiaries, 	u nless 	s tated 	o therwise. 	A dditional 	i nformation 	a bout 	C iti 	c an 	b e 	f ound 	o n 	o ur 	website .	
For	more 	information 	on	Citi’s 	ESG	initiatives, 	please 	visit	citigroup.com/citi/about/esg/ 	or	contact: 	
Global Public Affairs 
Citigroup 	Inc .	
388	Greenwich 	St.	
New	York, 	NY	10013 	
sustainability@citi.comFPO
IMAGE
1.	Refer 	to	page 	16	for	our	definition 	of	material 	issues 	in	the	context 	of	this	report.Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
3
In This Section
5	 Letter 	from 	Our	CEO
8	 Our	ESG	Strategy
10	 ESG	Governance 	at	Citi
13	 Our	Material 	ESG	Issues: 	Citi	in	a	Global 	Context
16	 Citi	and	the	Sustainable 	Development 	Goals
17	 Stakeholder 	Engagement 	at	CitiESG	at	CitiContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Reslient Communities  Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Busines s Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT 4Letter 	from 	Our	CEO
As	I	write 	this	note 	in	late	April, 	a	war	is	raging 	
in	Ukraine 	 with	 significant 	 global 	 ramifications.
From 	the	beginning, 	we	have 	prioritized 	the	
humanitarian 	crisis, 	doing 	everything 	we	can	
to	help	the	people 	in	Ukraine, 	including 	our	
own	colleagues, 	whilst 	keeping 	our	business 	
there 	operating 	so	we	can	support 	critical 	
supply 	chains 	and	the	NGOs 	delivering 	essen -
tial	aid.	We	are	also	helping 	our	multinational 	
clients 	who	have 	decided 	to	wind 	down 	their 	
business 	in	Russia.
Although 	it	might 	be	too	early 	to	predict 	the	
war’s 	long-term 	impact 	on	the	world 	order, 	it’s	
not	too	soon 	to	begin 	asking 	what 	it	means 	for	
the	issues 	at	the	heart 	of	our	ESG	agenda 	—	and	
the	ESG	agendas 	of	so	many 	other 	companies.
I	recently 	returned 	from 	seeing 	clients 	in	Europe 	
and	the	Middle 	East, 	and	it	is	security 	—	be	it	
energy, 	food, 	defense, 	cyber 	or	operational 	— 	
that’s 	now	consuming 	their 	attention. 	The	
challenges 	facing 	our	society 	have 	not	only	
reinforced 	the	need 	for	businesses 	such 	as	Citi	
to	step	up,	but	also	the	critical 	importance 	of	
collaboration 	on	a	global 	scale.
Consider 	the	climate 	crisis. 	At	Citi,	we’ve 	been 	
proud 	to	play	a	leading 	role	in	our	industry’s 	
drive 	to	a	more 	sustainable 	future, 	and	in	
recent 	months, 	we	released 	our	initial 	plan	for	
reaching 	net	zero 	emissions 	by	2050. 	But	
Russia’s 	role	as	a	major 	energy 	producer 	is	
forcing 	governments 	to	reevaluate 	their 	
energy 	security 	and	supply. 	Ultimately, 	
combating 	climate 	change 	cannot 	be	done 	by	
any	company 	or	country 	alone; 	we	need 	
businesses 	making 	the	right 	investments 	to	
achieve 	the	necessary 	shift 	in	supply, 	and	
consumers 	joining 	companies 	in	advocating 	
for	governments 	to	create 	the	policy 	frame -
works 	that	will	be	essential 	to	stimulating 	
demand 	for	clean 	technologies 	and	providing 	
the	foundation 	for	the	clean 	energy 	transition. 	
This	tension, 	of	course, 	is	not	new. 	While 	
Citi	plays 	an	enabling 	role	in	the	transition 	
to	a	net	zero	economy, 	we	understand 	that	
it	cannot 	occur 	overnight. 	We	have 	to	be	thoughtful 	with	the	transition, 	meeting 	our	
clients 	where 	they	are	in	their 	efforts, 	and	
then 	helping 	and	pushing 	them 	to	accelerate 	
their 	low-carbon 	transitions. 	
Similarly, 	our	efforts 	to	expand 	financial 	
access 	and	opportunity 	have 	also	gained 	new	
urgency. 	We	have 	engaged 	every 	level 	of	our	
business 	to	think 	and	act	in	support 	of	equity 	
and	the	goal	of	helping 	close 	the	racial 	wealth 	
gap	and	increase 	economic 	mobility 	in	the	
United 	States. 	In	order 	to	effectively 	do	this	
work 	and	serve 	our	clients 	and	communities, 	
we’ve 	set	—	and	recently 	exceeded 	—	talent 	
representation 	goals 	to	further 	diversify 	our	
own	workforce 	and	make 	progress 	toward 	pay	
equity 	at	Citi.	
We	also	continue 	to	advance 	financial 	inclusion 	
in	underserved 	communities 	globally, 	expanding 	
the	scope 	of	our	work 	to	areas 	such 	as	health -
care, 	education, 	affordable 	housing 	and	basic 	
infrastructure. 	These 	efforts 	have 	become 	
even 	more 	important 	amidst 	surging 	inflation 	
and	an	emerging 	global 	food 	crisis 	that	could 	
be	devastating 	for	the	world’s 	poorest 	coun -
tries, 	which 	import 	much 	of	their 	food 	and	
where 	households 	spend 	more 	than 	half	of	
their 	income 	on	food.
There 	are,	of	course, 	lessons 	to	learn 	and		
apply 	to	these 	challenges, 	particularly 	from 	the	
pandemic. 	COVID-19’s 	disregard 	for	borders 	
underscored 	t he	i nterconnectedness 	o f	s ociety. 	
It	also	reminded 	us	that	global 	challenges 	
demand 	a	global, 	collective 	response. 	As	the	
world 	becomes 	more 	fragmented, 	it	is	even 	
more 	important 	for	our	global 	community 	of	
business 	to	come 	together 	to	confront 	the	big	
challenges 	of	our	time.
At	Citi,	this	sense 	of	responsibility 	is	something 	
that	continues 	to	shape 	our	decisions, 	business 	
strategy, 	and	firm-wide 	goals 	and	commit -
ments. 	We	continue 	to	be	focused 	on	action 	
and	partnering 	with	like-minded 	organizations 	
that	are	also	doing 	the	work. 	A nd	f or	u s,	i t’s	
not	just	about 	the	big	numbers; 	it’s	the	small 	
number 	—	helping 	society 	get	closer 	to	zero. 	
Zero 	carbon 	emissions. 	Zero 	wealth 	gap.		Zero 	pay	gap.	Zero 	poverty. 	Some 	might 	say	
this	is	idealistic, 	but	having 	ambitious 	goals 		
is	what 	helps 	us	make 	meaningful 	progress. 	
And	it’s	going 	to	take	all	of	us,	working 	
together, 	to	make 	sure	we	continue 	to	go	in	
the	right 	direction. 	
I	invite 	you	to	learn 	more 	about 	these 	initiatives 	
in	the	pages 	that	follow. 	Our	ESG	agenda 	is	not	
a	separate 	layer 	that	sits	above 	what 	we	do	
day-to-day. 	It	is	an	effort 	that	we	began 	at	Citi	
many 	years 	ago	that	has	become 	core	to	who	
we	are	as	a	company 	and	our	daily 	worth 	as	a	
bank. 	While 	our	efforts 	will	continue 	to	evolve 	to	
reflect 	new	global 	challenges, 	our	commitment 	
to	transparency 	and	accountability 	will	remain 	
constant. 	We	will	continue 	to	share 	our	progress 	
and	lessons 	learned, 	and	we	will	continue 	to	
innovate 	and	push 	to	use	our	core	capabilities, 	
expertise 	and	talent 	to	lead	by	example 	and	
demonstrate 	how	Citi	is	truly 	a	bank 	with	a		
brain 	and	a	soul.
JANE FRASER 	
Chief 	Executive 	Officer
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
5
 •Unveiled initial plan to reach net zero emissions by 2050, including 2030 
targets for our Energy and Power loan portfolios 
 •Co-founded the Net Zero Banking Alliance, which will help establish an industry framework for decarbonizing the banking sectorPlayed a leading role in driving  
the transition to net zero 
 •Invested $1 billion in strategic initiatives as part of Citi and the Citi  
Foundation’s Action for Racial Equity commitment in year one of a three-
year commitment 
 •Launched the Diverse Financial Institutions Group to lead and expand firm-wide engagement with minority depository institutions, diverse broker-dealers and diverse asset managers
 •Worked exclusively with five Black-owned firms to syndicate a $2.5 billion bond issuance
 •Directed 68% of the Citi Impact Fund’s 2021 asset allocation to women and/or racially/ethnically diverse founders of companiesDeepened our efforts to help close  
the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the U.S. •Committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030, including  
$500 billion for environmental finance and $500 billion for social finance 
 •Financed and facilitated $222 billion in sustainable finance activity in 2020 and 2021Furthered the acceleration to a  
sustainable, low-carbon economy that supports the needs of societyESG	at	Citi	
At Citi, our ESG agenda reflects the role and responsibility we feel as a global bank to help solve many  
of society’s toughest challenges. It’s a part of our business model, and embedded in the products and  
services we offer. As we continue to evolve our ESG priorities to address ever-changing realities around the 
world, we remain committed to sharing our progress — as we believe transparency and accountability are  
key to success. 
 •Issued a first-of-its-kind $1 billion social finance bond to expand access 
to essential services in emerging markets
 •Announced a new commitment, through which we aim to invest in opportunities for 15 million low-income households, including 10 million women, globally by 2025Maximized positive social impact  
and advanced financial innovations  in emerging markets2021 Highlights
 • Provided $5.6 billion in loans for affordable housing projects in 2021, 
making Citi the largest U.S. affordable housing development lender for 
the 12th consecutive yearIncreased affordable housing  
in the U.S.
 •Disclosed annual, public update on our pay equity review, highlighting 
progress on median pay for women globally and U.S. minorities 
 •Exceeded our three-year representation goals set in 2018 to increase representation for women globally and for Black talent in the U.S. 
 •Promoted one of the largest and most diverse Managing Director classes in recent yearsContinued transparency around  
pay equity and increased diverse representationContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
6
Citi’s 	mission 	is	to	serve 	as	a	trusted 	part-
ner	to	our	clients 	by	responsibly 	providing 	
financial 	services 	that	enable 	growth 	and	
economic 	progress. 	Our	core	activities 	are	
safeguarding 	assets, 	lending 	money, 	mak-
ing	payments 	and	accessing 	the	capital 	
markets 	on	behalf 	of	our	clients. 	We	have 	
over	200	years 	of	experience 	helping 	our	
clients 	meet 	the	world’s 	toughest 	challeng -
es	and	embrace 	its	greatest 	opportunities. 	
As	an	institution, 	Citi	is	connecting 	millions 	
of	people 	across 	hundreds 	of	countries 	
and	cities. 	
We	protect 	people’s 	savings 	and	help	
them 	make 	the	purchases 	—	from 	everyday 	
transactions 	to	buying 	a	home 	—	that	
improve 	the	quality 	of	their 	lives. 	We	advise 	people 	on	how	to	invest 	for	future 	
needs, 	such 	as	their 	children’s 	education 	
and	their 	own	retirement, 	and	help	them 	
buy	securities 	such 	as	stocks 	and	bonds. 	
We	work 	with	companies 	to	optimize 	their 	
daily 	operations, 	whether 	they	need 	
working 	capital, 	to	make 	payroll 	or	to	
export 	their 	goods 	overseas. 	By	lending 	to	
companies 	large 	and	small, 	we	help	them 	
grow, 	creating 	jobs	and	real	economic 	
value 	at	home 	and	in	communities 	around 	
the	world. 	We	provide 	financing 	and	
support 	to	governments 	at	all	levels, 	so	
they	can	build 	sustainable 	infrastructure, 	
such 	as	housing, 	transportation, 	schools 	
and	other 	vital	public 	works. 	We	have 	an	obligation 	to	act	responsibly. 	
We	also	know 	that	acting 	responsibly 	
and	sustainably 	will	help	to	drive 	value 	
for	our	different 	stakeholders 	and	for	
our	company. 	If	we	fall	short, 	we	will	take	
action 	and	learn 	from 	our	experience. 	
We	strive 	to	earn 	and	maintain 	the	
public’s 	trust 	by	constantly 	adhering 	to	
the	highest 	ethical 	standards. 	We	ask	our	
colleagues 	to	ensure 	that	their 	decisions 	
pass 	three 	tests: 	They 	are	in	our	clients’ 	
interests, 	create 	economic 	value, 	and	
are	always 	systemically 	responsible. 	
When 	we	do	these 	things 	well,	we	make 	a	
positive 	financial 	and	social 	impact 	in	the	
communities 	we	serve 	and	show 	what 	a	
global 	bank 	can	do.	
Citi at a Glance
Unparalleled global network 
that enables us to connect and 
do business in 95 countries
Digital and mobile at the 
core of a simpler, better 
client experienceScaling efficiencies through 
common processes, common 
platforms and common dataUnique presence 
in faster-growing 
emerging marketsIconic brand with 
200+ years of 
experienceSupporting clients in 
more than 160 countries 
and jurisdictionsCiti’s Value Proposition:  
A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress 
What You Can Expect from Us & What We Expect from OurselvesContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
7
Our	ESG	Strategy
Through our business, we address 
some of society’s greatest 
challenges. In recent years, we 
have continued to advance our 
leadership and partnerships  
across the industry as we further hone our environmental, social  
and governance (ESG) strategy  
and approach to managing  
ESG issues and opportunities. 
Helping 	t o 	c lose 	t he 	ra cial 	w ealth 	g ap	
in	t he 	U nited 	S tates 	ra nks 	a mong 	o ur	
top	p riorities, 	a nd 	i n 	2 021, 	w e 	m ade	
tremendous 	p rogress 	o n 	o ur 	Action for 
Racial Equity 	c ommitment, 	w orking 	a cross 	
our	b usinesses 	t o 	i dentify 	w ays 	w e 	c an	
help	a ddress 	t he 	ra cial 	w ealth 	g ap. 	A s	
of	N ovember 	2 021 	— 	o ne 	y ear 	i nto 	o ur	
three-year 	c ommitment 	— 	C iti 	a nd 	t he 	C iti	
Foundation 	h ad 	a lready 	i nvested 	$ 1 	b illion 	
in	s trategic 	i nitiatives 	t o 	h elp 	c lose 	t he	
racial 	w ealth 	g ap 	a nd 	i ncrease 	e conomic 	
mobility 	 in	 the	 United 	 States. 	 We	 committed 	
to	c onduct 	a 	t hird-party 	ra cial 	e quity 	a udit	
to	e valuate 	o ur 	Action for Racial Equity 	
goals 	a nd 	l aunched 	t he	Di verse 	F inancial 	
Institutions 	G roup, 	a 	c entralized 	t eam	
within 	C iti 	t hat 	i s 	s erving 	a s 	a 	h ub 	t o 	l ead	
and	e xpand 	fi rm-wide 	en gagement 	w ith	
minority 	d epository 	ins titutions 	( MDIs), 	
diverse 	b roker-dealers 	a nd	di verse 	a sset	
managers. 	R ead 	m ore 	a bout 	o ur 	ra cial	
equity 	i nitiatives 	i n 	t he 	Equitable 	an d	
Resilient 	Co mmunities 	s ection.
Additionally 	in	2021, 	we	announced 	two	
significant, 	new	ESG	commitments: 	a	
pledge 	to	achieve 	net	zero	greenhouse 	
gas	(GHG) 	emissions 	by	2050 	and	a	
commitment 	of	$1	trillion 	in	sustainable 	
finance 	by	2030 	to	address 	the	impacts 	
of	climate 	change 	and	other 	pivotal 	
environmental 	and	social 	issues 	that	
align 	with	the	United 	Nations 	Sustainable 	Development 	Goals 	(SDGs). 	These 	followed 	
our	most 	recent 	Sustainable 	Pr ogress 	
Strategy ,	which 	we	launched 	one	year 	
earlier. 	Our	ESG	strategy 	is	a	central 	
element 	of	our	business 	model 	and	critical 	
to	our	strategy 	for	growth. 	
To	help	us	achieve 	our	$500 	Billion 	Social 	
Finance 	Goal, 	we	broadened 	the	focus 	of	
the	Citi	Social 	Finance 	team 	(formerly 	Citi	
Inclusive 	Finance) 	to	develop 	platforms 	
and	client 	solutions 	to	help	expand 	
financial 	inclusion, 	accelerate 	access 	to	
basic 	services, 	boost 	job	creation 	and	
scale 	social 	infrastructure 	development 	in	
emerging 	m arkets. 	We	believe 	that	global 	financial 	institutions 	
like	Citi	have 	the	opportunity 	—	and	the	
responsibility 	—	to	play	a	leading 	role	
in	helping 	to	drive 	the	transition 	to	a	
low-carbon 	economy. 	We	are	prepared 	
to	implement 	the	significant 	changes 	
needed 	in	our	business, 	and	to	support 	the	
substantial 	changes 	that	will	be	required 	
for	the	world 	to	transition 	and	align 	with	
the	goals 	of	the	Paris 	Agreement.
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
8
Net	zero	involves 	rethinking 	our	business 	
and	helping 	our	clients 	rethink 	theirs. 	We	
can	have 	the	biggest 	impact 	by	reducing 	
Scope 	3	financed 	emissions,1	particularly 	
for	carbon-intensive 	sectors 	such 	as	
Agriculture, 	Aluminum, 	Cement, 	Coal, 	
Commercial 	Real	Estate, 	Iron	and	Steel, 	Oil	
and	Gas,	Power 	Generation 	and	Transport. 	
To	reach 	our	net	zero	target, 	we	will	need 	
to	work 	closely 	with	our	clients 	on	their 	
own	transitions. 	
Following 	our	net	zero	announcement, 	
we	formed 	an	internal 	Net	Zero 	Task	
Force 	to	help	determine 	a	framework, 	
scope 	and	the	methodologies 	to	guide 	our	
progress 	toward 	this	commitment. 	For	
our	Energy 	and	Power 	loan	portfolios, 	we	
conducted 	an	initial 	assessment 	of	base -
line	emissions, 	set	interim 	2030 	emissions 	
reduction 	targets, 	and	developed 	initial 	
transition 	plans. 	Learn 	more 	in	the	Climate 	
Risk	&	Net	Zero 	section 	and	in	our	2021 	
Task	Force 	on	Climate-related 	Financial 	
Disclosures 	(TCFD) 	Report: 	Citi’s Approach 
to Climate Change and Net Zero . 	
ESG Across  
Our Business
Our	ESG	focus 	is	essential 	to	our	firm-wide 	
business 	strategy, 	and	many 	of	our	busi-
ness 	units 	have 	expanded 	their 	capacity 	
and	capabilities 	to	serve 	the	growing 	
ESG-related 	needs 	of	our	clients. 	Across 	
the	firm, 	our	business 	units 	are	prepared 	
to	support 	and	work 	with	our	clients 	
through 	sustainable 	finance, 	providing 	
a	variety 	of	products 	and	services 	with	
environmental 	and/or 	social 	themes. 	
We	h ave 	E SG 	s pecialists 	i n 	B anking, 	C apital 	
Markets 	and	Advisory; 	Global 	Markets; 	
Treasury 	and	Trade 	Solutions; 	and	Citi	
Global 	Wealth. 	We	have 	expanded 	our	
global 	Social 	Finance 	specialist 	group 	and	
formed 	new	teams 	to	engage 	with	clients 	on	ESG	goals 	and	targets. 	Together, 	these 	
businesses 	contribute 	to	our	$1	trillion 	
sustainable 	fin ance 	commitment. 		
ESG Principles  and Guidelines
In	response 	to	the	increasing 	need 	for	
clients 	to	see	how	we	are	addressing 	
ESG	—	and	in	step	with	global 	best	prac-
tices 	—	we	have 	aligned 	our	reporting 	
with	the	frameworks 	and	guidance 	of	the	
Global 	Reporting 	Initiative 	and	UN	G uiding 	
Principles 	Reporting 	Framework .	We	are	
also	using 	three 	relevant 	sector 	standards 	from 	the	Sustainability 	A ccounting 	
Standards 	B oard ,	and	we’re 	addressing 	
the	Principles 	for	Responsible 	Banking .	
We	also	include 	examples 	of	our	work 	that	
align 	with	the	UN	SDGs 	and	the	UN	Global 	
Compact .	In	addition, 	we	recently 	released 	
our	2021 	TCFD 	Report ,	which 	further 	
illustrates 	how	climate-related 	risks 	and	
opportunities 	are	central 	to	our	business.
1.	Financed 	emissions 	are	the	GHG 	emissions 	generated 	by	the	operations 	and	entities 	that	financial 	institutions 	lend	money 	to	or	invest 	in.	Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
9
ESG	Governance 	at	Citi
Good governance is a fundamental 
principle at Citi, and we work to 
ensure that we are at the leading 
edge of best practices. We strive 
to maintain the highest standards 
of ethical conduct — reporting 
with accuracy and transparency 
and complying with the laws, rules 
and regulations that govern Citi’s 
businesses. 
Corporate Governance
Our	governance 	structures, 	policies 	and	
processes 	serve 	employee, 	client 	and	
community 	needs; 	promote 	a	culture 	of	
accountability 	and	ethical 	conduct 	across 	
our	firm; 	and	support 	our	commitment 	
to	address 	global 	challenges 	through 	our	
core	business. 	
Citi’s 	Board 	of	Directors 	plays 	an	
important 	role	in	providing 	oversight 	of	
our	efforts 	to	ensure 	responsible 	business 	
practices. 	For	example, 	the	Personnel 	
and	Compensation 	Committee 	reviews 	
all	compensation 	programs, 	including 	
incentive 	compensation, 	so	that	they	
do	not,	among 	other 	things, 	encourage 	
imprudent 	risk	taking. 	The	Nomination, 	
Governance 	and	Public 	Affairs 	Committee 	
(NGPAC) 	oversees 	Citi’s 	global 	ESG	
activities 	and	performance. 	Our	Ethics, 	
Conduct 	and	Culture 	Committee 	reflects 	
our	commitment 	to	promote 	a	strong 	
culture 	of	ethical 	conduct. 	The	Risk	
Management 	Committee 	also	provides 	
oversight 	of	climate 	risk.
Standing 	committees 	of	our	Board 	include: 	
	•Audit 	
	•Ethics, 	Conduct 	and	Culture 	
	•Executive 	
	•Nomination, 	Governance 	and		
Public 	Affairs 		•Personnel 	a nd	C ompensation
	•Risk	Management 	
In	addition, 	the	Board 	formed 	the	
Transformation 	Oversight 	Committee, 	an	
ad	hoc	committee 	to	provide 	oversight 	of	
management’s 	remediation 	of	the	issues 	
identified 	in	the	consent 	orders 	with	the	
Federal 	Reserve 	Board 	and	Office 	of	the	
Comptroller 	of	the	Currency.
See	our	website 	for	more 	information 	
about 	Citi’s 	corporate 	governance, 	includ -
ing	our	Board 	committee 	charters. 	See	our	
2021 	TCFD 	Report 	for	details 	on	our	gover -
nance 	for	climate 	change 	specifically. 	
ESG Governance 
The	NGPAC 	oversees 	our	ESG	activities. 	
This	committee’s 	responsibilities 	include 	reviewing 	our	policies 	and	programs 	for	
sustainability, 	climate 	change, 	human 	
rights, 	diversity 	and	other 	material 	ESG	
issues, 	as	well	as	advising 	on	engage -
ment 	with	external 	stakeholders. 	For	
more 	information 	on	the	roles 	and	
responsibilities 	of	this	committee, 	see	
the	Nomination, 	Governance 	and	Public 	
Affairs 	Committee 	charter .	
In	July	2021, 	we	formed 	a	new	Global 	ESG	
Council 	to	provide 	a	senior 	management 	
forum 	for	oversight 	of	our	ESG	commit -
ments 	and	ambition. 	The	formation 	of	
the	Council 	highlights 	our	commitment 	to	
ESG	matters, 	including 	our	climate-related 	
strategies, 	at	the	highest 	level 	of	our	
organization. 	Chaired 	by	our	CEO, 	the	
Council 	meets 	on	a	near-monthly 	basis 	
and	includes 	members 	of	the	Executive 	
Management 	Team 	as	well	as	internal 	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
10
subject 	matter 	experts. 	Steering 	groups, 	
including 	the	Climate 	Risk	Steering 	
Group, 	the	Net	Zero 	Task	Force 	and	
Global 	Sustainability 	Steering 	Committee, 	
continue 	to	operate, 	and	the	leads 	of	
those 	steering 	groups 	are	members 	of	and	
provide 	reports 	to	the	Global 	ESG	Council. 	
Learn 	more 	in	our	2021 	TCFD 	Report .	
Sustainability and  
Climate Change
Citi’s 	Board 	of	Directors 	and	senior 	
management 	continue 	to	expand 	the	
governance 	of	climate 	risk	and	integrate 	
climate 	considerations 	into	their 	priorities. 	
In	2021, 	in	addition 	to	the	announcement 	
of	our	net	zero	commitment 	and	the	
creation 	of	our	new	Global 	ESG	Council, 	we	
accomplished 	t he	f ollowing:
	•Grew 	our	dedicated 	Climate 	Risk	team 	
with	additional 	expertise 	in	credit 	risk,	
scenario 	analysis, 	stress 	testing 	and	
regulatory 	en gagement
	•Rolled 	out	our	first	training 	module 	on	
climate 	risk
	•Created 	the	Natural 	Resources 	&	Clean 	
Energy 	Transition 	team 	to	combine 	
our	Energy, 	Power 	and	Chemicals 	
businesses 	in	order 	to	assist 	our	clients 	
across 	these 	sectors 	as	they	transition
	•Established 	our	Net	Zero 	Task	Force, 	a	
cross-functional 	group 	to	support 	the	
development 	 and	 launch 	 of	 our	 net	 zero	
plan. 	The	Task	Force 	is	led	by	our	Chief 	
Sustainability 	Officer 	and	includes 	
leaders 	from 	diverse 	business 	units 	
such 	as	Independent 	Risk	Management; 	
Banking, 	Capital 	Markets, 	and	Advisory; 	
Global 	Markets; 	Personal 	Banking 	&	
Wealth 	Management; 	as	well	as	Global 	
Public 	Affairs, 	Enterprise 	Operations 	&	
Technology, 	Legal 	and	Finance. 	
The	Board 	and	senior 	management 	have 	
also	increased 	the	frequency 	and	depth 	of	
conversations 	regarding 	climate 	matters. 		Citi’s 	Board 	has	ultimate 	oversight 	of	Citi’s 	
approaches 	to	considering, 	evaluating 	
and	integrating 	climate-related 	risks 	and	
opportunities 	throughout 	the	organization. 	
The	Board 	receives 	reports 	from 	key	
personnel 	on	Citi’s 	progress 	and	key	issues 	
on	a	periodic 	basis. 	In	addition 	to	reporting 	
to	the	full	Board, 	the	NGPAC 	provides 	
oversight 	of	sustainability 	activities 	and	
performance 	generally 	and	the	firm’s 	
climate 	change 	efforts 	specifically, 	and	
the	Risk	Management 	Committee 	(RMC) 	
provides 	oversight 	of	climate 	change 	risk.		
The	N GPAC 	r eceives 	p eriodic 	u pdates 	f rom 	
Citi’s 	C hief 	S ustainability 	O fficer 	( CSO) 	
and	t he 	h ead 	o f 	C ommunity 	I nvesting 	a nd 	
Development. 	T he 	N GPAC 	a lso 	r eviews 	
Citi’s 	g overnance 	a nd 	s ignificant 	p olicies 	
and	p rograms 	f or 	su stainability 	a nd 	
climate 	c hange 	i ssues 	a nd 	a dvises 	m anage -
ment 	o n 	o ur 	e ngagement 	w ith 	i nvestors 	
and	e xternal 	s takeholders 	o n 	t hese 	t opics. 	
For	more 	 information 	 on	 the	 roles 	 and	
responsibilities 	o f 	t he 	N GPAC, 	p lease 	s ee 	
our	NGPAC 	C harter .	T he 	R MC 	p rovides 	
oversight 	o f 	C iti’s 	R isk 	M anagement 	
function 	a nd 	r eviews 	C iti’s 	r isk 	p olicies 	a nd 	
frameworks. 	F or	m ore	i nformation 	on	t he	
roles 	 and	 responsibilities 	 of	 this	 commit -
tee,	p lease 	s ee 	o ur 	RMC 	 Charter .	
In	2020 	into	2021, 	the	NGPAC 	reviewed 	
and	discussed 	investor 	and	market 	devel -
opments 	related 	to	net	zero, 	including 	a	
shareholder 	proposal 	pertaining 	to	net	
zero, 	and	considerations 	for	Citi	as	it	delib -
erated 	on	the	implications 	of	a	potential 	
net	zero	commitment. 	These 	discussions 	
continued 	with	the	full	Board 	throughout 	
2021. 	During 	2021, 	the	full	Board 	partic -
ipated 	in	a	climate 	education 	session 	
facilitated 	by	the	Head 	of	Climate 	Risk, 	the	
CSO	and	the	Head 	of	Corporate 	Banking. 	
The	full	Board 	received 	reports 	from 	the	
CSO	regarding 	sustainability 	activities 	and	
performance, 	including 	those 	related 	to	
climate 	change 	and	Citi’s 	net	zero	plan, 	
and	the	RMC 	received 	reports 	from 	the	Head 	of	Climate 	Risk	regarding 	emerging 	
bank 	regulatory 	trends 	on	climate 	risk	and	
Citi’s 	approach 	to	meeting 	them. 	Members 	
of	the	Board 	also	participated 	in	investor 	
calls	on	a	variety 	of	governance, 	climate 	
risk	and	environmental 	and	social 	matters.
Senior 	managers 	from 	Global 	Public 	
Affairs, 	Risk, 	Finance, 	Legal, 	Operations 	
&	Technology 	and	various 	business 	units 	
from 	our	Institutional 	Clients 	Group 	also	
contribute 	expertise 	to	address 	the	chal-
lenges 	presented 	by	climate 	change. 	
Learn 	more 	in	the	Climate 	Risk	section 	and	
in	our	2021 	TCFD 	Report .
Community Investing
Citi	C ommunity 	I nvesting 	a nd 	D evelopment 	
(CID) 	is	an	integrated 	team 	that	works 	
across 	Citi’s 	businesses 	and	functions 	to	
catalyze 	positive 	social 	impact 	in	commu -
nities 	around 	the	world. 		
CID	comprises 	the	following 	teams:
	•Citi	Impact 	Fund 	invests 	in	“double 	
bottom 	line” 	companies 	that	are	
addressing 	societal 	challenges, 	
including 	workforce 	development, 	
sustainability, 	physical 	and	social 	
infrastructure, 	and	financial 	inclusion. 	
	•Citi	Social 	Finance 	works 	across 	Citi	
businesses 	globally 	to	catalyze 	scalable 	
business 	platforms 	and	client 	solutions 	
that	enable 	the	bank, 	our	clients 	
and	our	partners 	to	expand 	financial 	
inclusion, 	accelerate 	access 	to	basic 	
services, 	boost 	job	creation 	and	scale 	
social 	infrastructure 	development 	in	
emerging 	m arkets. 	
	•U.S.	Business 	Partnerships 	leads 	Citi’s 	
relationships 	with	national 	civil	rights 	
and	consumer 	protection 	organizations 	
to	gain	insights 	into	issues 	affecting 	
low-	and	moderate-income 	communi -
ties	and	communities 	of	color, 	and		
catalyze 	product 	and	service 	innova -
tions 	that	help	expand 	financial 	access 	
and	close 	the	racial 	wealth 	gap.	Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
11
	•The	U.S.	Community 	Relations 	team, 	
which 	includes 	Citi	Volunteers, 	
catalyzes 	social 	impact 	by	engaging 	
and	partnering 	with	local 	community 	
leaders 	and	organizations 	across 	the	
country. 	The	team 	connects 	Citi’s 	
people, 	expertise, 	resources, 	products 	
and	services 	to	help	expand 	equitable 	
opportunities 	for	all.		
The	Citi	Foundation 	is	a	separate 	legal 	
entity 	funded 	by	Citi	to	organize 	flagship 	
community 	programming 	in	three 	areas: 	
youth 	economic 	opportunities, 	financial 	
inclusion 	and	community 	solutions. 	
Underlying 	our	approach 	is	the	notion 	
that	complex 	societal 	challenges 	require 	
multifaceted 	solutions. 	We	strive 	to	share 	
our	expertise 	with, 	and	learn 	from, 	our	
partners 	and	stakeholders 	about 	ways 	
we	can	enhance 	impact. 	This	approach 	
contributes 	directly 	to	the	UN	Sustainable 	
Development 	Goal	SDG 17 ,	which 	seeks 	to	
strengthen the means  of implementation 
and revitalize the global partnership for 
sustainable development. 	In	particular, 	
Citi’s 	efforts 	contribute 	to	target 	17.3,	
which 	seeks 	to	mobilize additional finan -
cial resources for developing countries 
from multiple sources ,	including 	the	
private 	sector, 	to	ensure 	that	sufficient 	
financing 	is	available 	to	achieve 	the	SDGs. 	
SDG Goal 17:  Partnerships for the Goals 	
Learn 	more 	about 	this	team’s 	efforts 	in	
the	Equitable 	and	Resilient 	Communities 	
section .	Talent and DEI
Citi’s 	Chief 	Diversity, 	Equity 	and	Inclusion 	
(DEI) 	Officer 	and	Global 	Head 	of	Talent 	
oversees 	our	efforts 	to	promote 	diversity, 	
equity 	and	inclusion 	in	the	workplace. 	
Reporting 	to	the	Global 	Head 	of	Human 	
Resources, 	the	Chief 	DEI	Officer 	and	Global 	
Head 	of	Talent 	works 	in	partnership 	with	
senior 	management, 	particularly 	members 	
of	the	Executive 	Management 	Team, 	who	
co-chair 	our	Affinity 	groups. 	Our	talent 	
and	DEI	efforts 	are	governed 	by	the	Citi	
Board 	of	Directors. 	
Ethics and Business 
Practices
Ethics 	and	responsible 	business 	practices 	
are	among 	the	most 	material 	ESG	issues 	
for	Citi	and	our	stakeholders. 	The	Ethics, 	
Conduct 	and	Culture 	Committee 	of	the	
Board 	oversees 	management’s 	efforts 	
to	foster 	a	culture 	of	ethics 	within 	the	
company 	and	receives 	regular 	reports 	
from 	senior 	management 	on	the	progress 	
of	those 	efforts. 	To	learn 	more 	about 	
the	responsibilities 	of	the	committee, 	
download 	the	Ethics, 	Conduct 	and	Culture 	
Committee 	C harter .	The	Ethics 	and	Culture 	
section 	of	this	report 	also	provides 	more 	
information 	about 	efforts 	to	encourage 	a	
culture 	of	ethics 	at	Citi.	
Among 	its	responsibilities, 	the	Board’s 	Risk	
Management 	Committee 	reviews 	Citi’s 	risk	
appetite 	framework, 	including 	reputational 	
risk	appetite, 	and	reviews 	and	approves 	
key	risk	policies, 	including 	those 	focused 	
on	environmental 	and	social 	risk.	
Remuneration
The	Personnel 	and	Compensation 	
Committee 	of	the	Board 	holds 	senior 	
executives 	responsible, 	and	in	turn	senior 	
executives 	hold	their 	team 	members 	
responsible, 	for	managing 	our	sustainability 	
and	other 	ESG-related 	efforts 	through 	incentive 	compensation 	decisions. 	Citi’s 	
incentive 	compensation 	program 	is	discre -
tionary, 	not	formulaic. 	Management 	of	
sustainability 	efforts 	is	taken 	into	account 	
in	the	program 	in	two	ways. 	First, 	senior 	
executives 	are	held	accountable 	for	busi-
ness 	performance 	through 	specific 	metrics 	
designated 	on	a	position-by-position 	basis. 	
Progress 	on	our	$1	trillion 	sustainable 	
finance 	commitment 	and	milestones 	for	
our	net	zero	plan	are	incorporated 	into	the	
executive 	scorecards 	of	our	CEO, 	the	CEO	
of	Citi’s 	Institutional 	Clients 	Group 	and	our	
Head 	of	Global 	Public 	Affairs. 	
Second, 	climate 	change 	strategy 	and	risk	
management 	performance 	goals 	are	incor -
porated 	i nto 	a nnual 	g oals 	a nd 	p erformance 	
review 	processes 	for	a	number 	of	our	
senior 	managers 	and	their 	teams 	who	are	
responsible 	for	developing 	and	implement -
ing	our	approach 	to	climate 	change. 	These 	
managers 	include 	the	Chief 	Sustainability 	
Officer, 	Head 	of	Environmental 	and	Social 	
Risk	Management 	(ESRM), 	Head 	of	Climate 	
Risk	and	the	Head 	of	Construction 	and	
Sustainability, 	whose 	team 	is	responsible 	
for	our	environmental 	footprint 	goals. 	
Corporate 	performance 	against 	scorecard 	
metrics 	and	individual 	performance 	
against 	annual 	goals 	are	two	factors, 	
among 	others, 	that	are	taken 	into	account 	
in	determining 	incentive 	compensation. 	
Diversity, 	equity 	and	inclusion, 	including 	
representation 	of	women 	and	U.S.	Black 	
colleagues 	at	the	Assistant 	Vice	President 	
to	Managing 	Director 	levels, 	continue 	to	
be	included 	in	scorecards 	for	our	senior 	
executives. 	Citi	also	incorporates 	share -
holder 	and	stakeholder 	input 	on	executive 	
pay	into	our	Compensation 	Philosophy.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
12
Our	Material 	ESG	Issues: 		
Citi	in	a	Global 	Context 	
In 2020, we conducted a 
materiality assessment to identify 
our most relevant (or “material”) 
reporting topics from an ESG 
perspective — which is a broader 
standard than that used in our 
financial disclosures. These topics 
are incorporated in the material 
issues table on the next page. 
Based 	o n 	i nternal 	s takeholder 	i nterviews 	
and	external 	 research, 	 the	 ESG	 topics 	
identified, 	w hich 	w e 	r efer 	t o 	a s 	“m aterial 	ESG	i ssues” 	t hroughout 	t his 	r eport, 	i nform 	
which 	i ssues 	w e 	r eport 	o n, 	w hich 	i ssues 	w e	
consider 	r aising 	t o 	o ur 	B oard 	o f 	D irectors, 	
and	how	 we	 establish 	 our	 ESG	 priorities. 	
When 	t aken 	a s 	a 	s et, 	t he 	i ssues 	t hat 	su rfaced 	
in	the	 ESG	 materiality 	 analysis 	 indicate 	 an	
increase 	in	s takeholder 	e xpectations, 	in	
particular 	w ith	r egard 	t o	i ssues 	c onnected 	
to	climate 	 change 	 and	 social 	 justice. 	 The	
pandemic 	a lso	p laced 	in creased 	e mphasis 	
on	employee 	 health 	 and	 well-being. 	 Most 	
of	t he 	m aterial 	E SG 	i ssues 	o utlined 	o n 	t he	
following 	 pages 	 are	 not	 new	 to	 Citi	 nor	 to	our	stakeholders. 	 What 	 is	 new,	 however, 	
is	t he 	m agnitude 	a nd 	c omplexity 	o f 	t he	
changes 	 required 	 to	 rise	 to	 these 	 challenges. 	
For	example, 	 there 	 is	 wide	 recognition 	 that	
climate 	 change 	 is	 happening 	 faster 	 and	 with	
more 	i mpact 	t han	p reviously 	r ealized; 	i n 	
parallel, 	s ociety 	i s 	r eacting 	t o 	u nacceptable 	
levels 	 of	 social 	 inequity. 	
This	 assessment 	 mirrors 	 —	 and	 informs 	 —	 our	
increased 	st rategic 	e fforts 	on	t hese 	i ssues. 	
It	h as 	a lso 	d riven 	o ur	in creased 	r eporting 	o n	
these 	ma terial 	t opics.
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
13
Material ESG Topics*
Material ESG Topics*                    K ey Stakeholders
Clients and 
CustomersEmployees SuppliersCommunities  
and NGOsShareholdersGovernment  
& Regulators
Environmental
Biodiversity
Climate Change
Environmental Justice
Operational Footprint
Products and Services with 
Environmental or Social Benefits
Social
Community Investment
COVID-19
Employee Health and Well-being
Financial Inclusion
Human Rights
Racial Equity/Racial Justice
Talent Attraction, Retention and 
Development 
Workforce Diversity, Inclusion and 
Equal Opportunity
Governance
Business Ethics
Business Model Resilience
Data Security/  
Financial Product Safety
ESG Governancee
Innovation and Digitization
Public Policy and Regulation 
Reform
Stakeholder Engagement
Systemic Risk Management
Transparency and Trust
*	These 	are	the	topics 	identified 	during 	the	materiality 	assessment 	we	conducted 	in	2020. 		Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
14
Material Topics Definitions/Relevance to Citi
BiodiversityOur role in preventing the decline in the number, genetic variability and variety of species essential to 
global and bioregional ecosystem resilience through our financing
Business EthicsFollowing our policies, including compliance with laws, anti-corruption and bribery, anti-competitive behavior, paying taxes and transparent political engagement
Business Model ResilienceCreating, developing and deploying a business model that can meet significant challenges such as natural disasters, health pandemics and global climate change
Climate ChangeReducing our own contribution to climate change while financing and facilitating projects that accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy
Community InvestmentEnabling greater cohesion with community stakeholders through public-private partnerships, monetary or in-kind donations, volunteer time or employee fundraising/match schemes
COVID-19Adjusting our operations and long-term strategy to allow us to respond effectively to current and future global health crises
Data Security/Financial Product 
SafetyExecuting the policies, procedures and programs designed to safeguard the privacy of information 
shared by employees, customers and clients
Employee Health and Well-beingCreating workspaces that promote employee wellness, and engaging employees in our effort to maintain a culture of safety, sustainability and wellness
Environmental JusticeEnacting environmental policies and practices that ensure the fair treatment and involvement of people of all races, national origins and income
ESG GovernanceAligning with stakeholder interests while protecting the environment, advancing social causes and conducting ourselves responsibly
Financial InclusionEngaging with community banks and low-income stakeholders, and orienting the company’s place in the market to serve underserved communities
Human RightsRespecting the basic rights and freedoms of clients, customers, employees, suppliers and Indigenous communities in all our banking activities
Innovation and DigitizationProblem-solving with clients, partnering with experts and fostering an environment that values  experimentation and technological advancements
Operational FootprintReducing direct impacts by managing energy use, water consumption, recycling, waste and green building design
Products and Services with 
Environmental or Social BenefitsProviding products and services that drive more equity in society and that protect the environment
Public Policy and Regulation Reform Advocating for public policies that support the interests of our company, clients and employees in 
the countries and regions where we operate
Racial Equity/Racial JusticeImplementing policies and programs that promote equal opportunity and treatment for people of all races
Stakeholder EngagementActively exchanging input, insights, expertise and perspectives with a wide array of stakeholders as we pursue our sustainability objectives
Systemic Risk ManagementNavigating an evolving risk landscape to make responsible decisions and serve the long-term interests of our clients and the communities in which they operate
Talent Attraction, Retention  
and DevelopmentAdopting an approach to recruiting, hiring, developing and retaining employees to create positive 
working conditions so that our employees can thrive
Transparency and TrustProtecting the confidentiality of our clients’ information while disclosing information to stakeholders that demonstrates our accountability and credibility
Workforce Diversity, Inclusion  
and Equal OpportunityEnhancing our efforts to promote equal opportunities for all people, and supporting a culture of 
diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplaceContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
15
These 17 interrelated Sustainable Development Goals represent an 
ambitious agenda to achieve a sustainable future by 2030. Some examples 
of our work to advance specific SDGs can be found throughout this report.Citi	and	the	Sustainable 		
Development 	Goals
Our sustainable finance 
commitment of $1 trillion by 2030 
aligns with the ambitious agenda 
of the UN SDGs by furthering the 
acceleration to a sustainable, 
low-carbon economy that supports 
the environmental, social and 
economic needs of society. As	the	world’s 	most 	global 	bank, 	Citi	has	a	
role	to	play	in	mobilizing 	capital 	to	advance 	
progress 	toward 	the	goals. 	
Citi	i s 	p art 	o f 	t he 	G lobal 	I nvestors 	f or	
Sustainable 	D evelopment 	( GISD) 	A lliance, 	
which 	i ncludes 	3 0 	o f 	t he 	w orld’s 	l argest 	
investors 	c ommitted 	t o	ac celerating 	t he	
financing 	o f 	t he 	S DGs. 	T he 	3 0 	m embers 		
	
	have 	c ommitted 	t o 	i ncrease 	o ur 	c ollective 	
efforts 	t o 	a lign 	o ur 	b usinesses 	w ith 	t he	
goals 	a nd 	t o 	r emove 	b arriers 	t o 	fi nance. 	
Since 	2 010, 	C iti 	h as 	a lso 	b een 	a 	m ember 	
of	t he 	U N 	G lobal 	C ompact 	( UNGC), 	a	
global 	c orporate 	s ustainability 	i nitiative 	
to	a lign 	c ompanies’ 	s trategies 	a nd 	o per-
ations 	w ith 	p rinciples 	o n 	h uman 	r ights, 	
labor, 	e nvironment 	a nd	a nti-corruption, 	
and	t ake 	a ctions 	t hat 	a dvance 	s ocietal 	
goals. 	W e 	r eport 	o n 	our	p rogress 	t o	
implement 	t he 	10	U NGC 	p rinciples .			Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
16
Stakeholder 	Engagement 	at	Citi	
As a signatory to the Business 
Roundtable’s Statement on the 
Purpose of a Corporation , Citi 
is committed to ongoing and 
extensive engagement with our 
stakeholders. 
We	su bscribe 	t o 	a 	b road 	s takeholder 	c api-
talism 	 approach, 	 believing 	 that	 we	 are	 best	
able	t o 	c reate 	b usiness 	v alue 	w hen 	w e 	s erve	
the	i nterests 	o f 	a 	w ide 	a rray 	o f 	s takeholders, 	including 	 our	 shareholders. 	 We	 made 	 a	
deliberate 	e ffort	t o	c ontinue 	st akeholder 	
engagement 	i n	a	p andemic 	en vironment.
To	fu lfill 	t his 	a pproach, 	w e 	r egularly 	r eview 	
our	s takeholder 	p artnerships 	a cross 	a	
range 	o f 	f unctions, 	in cluding 	P ublic 	A ffairs, 	
Investor 	R elations, 	H uman 	R esources 	
and	C orporate 	G overnance, 	a s 	w ell 	a s	
Sustainability, 	G overnment 	A ffairs 	a nd	o ther	
teams 	in	P ublic 	A ffairs. 	The	table 	 below 	 includes 	 examples 	 of	 our	
recent 	st akeholder 	e ngagement 	e fforts. 	
AMERICA’S MOST JUST 
COMPANIES 
In recognition of our ESG 
performance, Citi was named 
among the Top 15 companies in 
JUST Capital’s 2022 rankings .
Stakeholder 
GroupHow We Engage Examples from 2021
Clients and 
Customers •Meetings to share Citi’s ESG perfor -
mance and to understand our clients’ 
approaches to climate change as well as managing environmental and social risks
 •Social media, including our Customer Service Twitter handle (@AskCiti)
 •Customer satisfaction survey
 •Citi Blog •Hosted a feedback session for stakeholders including clients, investors and NGOs to provide commentary on our TCFD disclosures and our approach toward setting net zero targets and measuring our baseline emissions. Learn more in the Climate Risk & Net Zero section
 •Worked with clients on sustainable finance transactions
 •Engaged with clients to discuss our approach to environmental, social and climate risk management and disclosure
 •Participated in a number of materiality exercises for clients’ ESG reporting
Employees  •Company intranet, email, mail and meetings
 •Voice of the Employee surveys
 •Affinity Networks and Green Champions
 •Online training
 •Performance reviews
 •Citi Blog •Nearly 196,000 staff completed Financial Crimes compliance training, including on anti-money laundering, sanctions and anti-bribery topics 
 •Rolled out a new Climate Risk training for employees in Risk functions 
 •Featured stories on Citi’s intranet and in blog posts from Citi senior executives, employees and partners, highlighting our progress on ESG priorities 
 •Our Global Sustainability Network consists of employees from across Citi whose work directly relates to sustainability and ESG, to promote knowledge sharing and alignment on related activities 
 •Our Champions groups within our Banking, Capital Markets and Advisory; Global Markets; and Treasury and Trade Solutions businesses are comprised of employee volunteers. The Champions have quarterly global calls and monthly regional calls to share business updates and best practices for sustainable finance, net zero transition and market developments.
Suppliers  •Meetings, calls, conferences and workshops
 •Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire to help assess management of ESG issues, including environmental sustainability and modern slavery •Hosted multiple events to create opportunities to engage with diverse suppliers and help to build their capacity, including sustainable business practices  Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
17
Stakeholder 
GroupHow We Engage Examples from 2021
Communities and Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs) •Specialized websites, including our  
Communities  and Sustainability  websites
 •Collaboration with community organizations and NGOs on issues relevant to their organizations and our business
 •Dialogue sessions with community advocates and leaders, civil rights and consumer protection organizations
 •Employee volunteering events •Our Head of Community Investing and Development chairs Living Cities, a collaborative of the largest philanthropic foundations in the United States dedicated to closing racial wealth gaps
 •Our Chief Sustainability Officer joined the board of the GOOD Institute, a social impact alliance
 •Thousands of employees participated in Citi’s annual Global Community Day Reimagined 2021, with more than 61,000 volunteer engagements across 81 countries and territories
 •Citi Foundation provides grants and works with local and national community organizations •The President of Citi Foundation serves on the Board of Directors of the Council on Foundations, a community of diverse philanthropic organizations advocating for progress
Shareholders  •Group calls and meetings (quarterly earnings calls, investor conferences and Citi-hosted group meetings) 
 •One-on-one meetings to discuss  financial performance and ESG issues 
 •Communications through our Investor  Relations and Corporate Governance teams  •Engaged in person and virtually with more than 20 individual investor groups as part of our annual ESG investor roadshow, focused on climate change and diversity—our fourth year of dedicated ESG engagement 
Government and 
Regulators •Meetings, conference calls, lobbying 
activities, industry associations, public policy forums, press conferences, con -
ferences and convenings
 •Membership on government councils and committees •Engaged with trade associations, such as the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable, and financial industry associations to help build the case for climate policy and supportive regulation
 •Member of the CEO Climate Dialogue, a cross-industry effort committed to advancing climate action and durable federal climate policy in the United States
 •Led the workstream to revitalize minority depository institutions (MDIs) and promote fair and equal access to financial products and services as part of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s Project REACh
Other Financial 
Institutions •Working groups
 •Joint projects 
 •Industry groups, roundtables, workshops 
and events •Member of the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) Principals Group and the Net Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) Steering Group
 •Member of United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative’s (UNEP FI) Global Steering Committee and the Institute for International Finance’s Sustainable Finance Working Group
 •Joined the Corporate Call to Action: Coalition for Equity & Opportunity launched by the Connecticut Office of the Treasurer and the Ford Foundation
 •Led a working group focused on assessing best practices for developing effective operational level grievance mechanisms and enabling effective remedy for adverse human right impacts in project-related finance
 •Joined the UNEP FI’s Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures ForumContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business  Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
18
In This Section
20	Our	$1	Trillion 	CommitmentSustainable 	
	 FinanceContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT 19We have committed $1 trillion 
to sustainable finance by 2030, 
a commitment that spans our 
business offerings and exemplifies 
how environmental and social 
finance are integrated across 
our businesses. The ambitious 
$1 trillion commitment will 
support innovation and collective 
action toward addressing 
the most significant global 
challenges that are outlined in the Paris Agreement and the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). 
Announced 	in	April 	2021, 	the	$1	trillion 	
commitment 	extended 	our	previous 	
environmental 	finance 	goal	from 	$250 	
billion 	by	2025 	to	$500 	billion 	by	2030. 	
Through 	this	commitment, 	we	will	finance 	
and	facilitate 	a	wide 	array 	of	climate 	
solutions, 	such 	as	renewable 	energy, 	
clean 	technology, 	water 	conservation 	and	
sustainable 	transportation. 	We	have 	also	
committed 	$500 	billion 	toward 	activities 	
in	social 	finance, 	which 	includes 	important 	
investments 	in	education, 	affordable 	
housing 	and	basic 	infrastructure, 	health -
care, 	economic 	inclusion 	and	food 	security. 	
Together, 	these 	$500 	billion 	targets 	for	
environmental 	and	social 	finance 	make 	
up	our	$1	trillion 	commitment, 	which 	aims 	
to	further 	accelerate 	the	transition 	to	a	
sustainable, 	low-carbon 	economy 	that	
supports 	society’s 	environmental, 	social 	
and	ec onomic 	need s.	
Our	$1	Trillion 	CommitmentContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
20
$1 Trillion in Sustainable Finance by 2030
$0 $250B $750B $1T
by 2030$500B$222 Billion
Sustainable Finance Commitment Progress
2020-2021
Our $1 trillion sustainable finance commitment aims to further accelerate the transition to a sustainable, low- 
carbon economy that supports society’s environmental, social and economic needs. The commitment aligns with  the ambitious agenda of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As the world’s most global bank, Citi has  a role to play in mobilizing capital to advance progress toward the goals.
We finance and facilitate sustainable activities to support the needs of people and communities around the world.Renewable  
EnergySustainable  
Agriculture 
& Land UseSustainable  
TransportationWater  
Conservation  
& QualityEconomic  
InclusionEducation Food  
SecurityHealthcareAffordable Basic  
InfrastructureAffordable 
HousingDiversity  
& EquityEnergy  
EfficiencyGreen 
BuildingsENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE GOAL CRITERIA SOCIAL FINANCE GOAL CRITERIA
Circular  
EconomyClean
Technology
Additional data related to our $1 trillion commitment can be found later in this chapter. $18.2B
Asia Pacific
$59.6B
Europe, Middle East  
and Africa
$9.5B
Latin America 
$134.8B
North AmericaREGIONAL REPRESENTATION (2020-2021)
World Bank Low-Income  
and Lower-Middle-Income  Countries with Citi Presence
Upper Middle-Income  
Countries with Citi Presence
High-Income Countries with  
Citi PresenceContents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
21
We	believe 	 that	 setting 	 ambitious 	 goals 	
helps 	 to	 drive 	 innovation 	 and	 accelerate 	
progress. 	 Reaching 	 $1	 trillion 	 will	 require 	
the	development 	 of	 innovative 	 financing 	
solutions. 	 We	 will	 continue 	 to	 focus 	 on	
helping 	 clients 	 across 	 all	 sectors, 	 no	 matter 	
where 	t hey 	a re	i n	t heir	o wn	s ustainability 	
journeys, 	t o 	s upport 	t heir	s trategic 	g oals	
and	enable 	 the	 development 	 and	 integra -
tion	of	 sustainable 	 business 	 practices.
Over 	 recent 	 years, 	 we	 have 	 seen 	 the	
development 	 of	 financial 	 products 	 that	
were 	 relatively 	 new,	 or	 even 	 nonexistent, 	
when 	 we	 set	 our	 very	 first	 $50	 billion 	
climate 	 finance 	 goal	 in	 2007. 	 Thematic 	
bonds, 	s ustainable 	s upply 	c hain 	fi nance 	a nd	
sustainability-linked 	b onds 	a nd	l oans 	t hat	
are	tied	 to	 ESG	 performance 	 are	 contribut -
ing	to	 sustainable 	 finance, 	 and	 we	 expect 	 to	
see	further 	 innovations 	 in	 the	 coming 	 years.
Tracking Progress
Each 	t ransaction 	w e	fi nance 	or	f acilitate 	
must 	 meet 	 at	 least 	 one	 of	 eight 	 criteria 	
for	environmental 	 finance 	 or	 one	 of	 seven 	
criteria 	 for	 social 	 finance 	 to	 be	 counted 	
toward 	t he 	o verall 	$ 1	t rillion 	c ommitment. 	
These 	c riteria 	w ere	i nformed 	b y	e xternal 	
standards 	a nd 	m ay 	t herefore 	b e 	su bject 	t o	
changes 	a s 	i ndustry 	g uidelines 	a re 	fu rther 	
developed. 	 	
Credit 	f or 	e ach	e ligible 	t ransaction 	i s	
counted 	 only	 once 	 toward 	 the	 $1	 trillion 	
commitment, 	e ven	i f	t he	t ransaction 	m eets	
multiple 	 criteria. 	 Transactions 	 that	 meet 	
both 	en vironmental 	a nd	s ocial 	c riteria 	
are	e venly 	s plit	b etween 	t he	$ 500	B illion 	
Environmental 	 Finance 	 Goal	 and	 the	 $500 	
Billion 	 Social 	 Finance 	 Goal	 —	 without 	 double 	
counting. 	B ecause 	o f	t he	i nterconnected 	
nature 	o f 	su stainable 	fi nance, 	w e 	a re	
already 	se eing 	a n	in creasing 	nu mber 	o f	
transactions 	 with	 both 	 environmental 	 and	
social 	b enefits. 	We	track 	our	sustainable 	finance 	activities 	
using 	third-party 	financial 	league 	table 	
credit, 	where 	applicable. 	The	industry 	
league 	tables 	track 	public 	financial 	activ -
ities	and	rank	financial 	institutions 	based 	
on	their 	role	(i.e.	lead	arranger, 	bookrun -
ner,	etc.)	in	each 	transaction. 	For	financial 	
products 	for	which 	there 	are	no	league 	
tables, 	we	count 	the	amount 	that	reflects 	
Citi’s 	financial 	involvement 	in	the	deal.
Beyond 	c ounting 	t he 	fi nancial 	c redit, 	w e 	
also	c alculate 	t he 	e stimated 	e nvironmental 	
and	social 	 impacts 	 associated 	 with	 a	
subset 	o f 	a ctivities 	w here 	f easible, 	su ch 	
as	a voided 	g reenhouse 	gas	e missions, 	
renewable 	e nergy 	c apacity 	a dded, 	j obs	
supported 	a nd 	p eople 	i mpacted. 	W e 	t ake 	
a	c onservative 	a pproach 	t o	t he	e stimation 	
of	impacts 	 from 	 the	 activities 	 we	 finance 	
and	facilitate 	 —	 including 	 only	 deal	 activity 	
for	which 	 reasonable 	 methodologies 	
and	d ata 	s ources 	ar e	a vailable, 	an d	
excluding 	d eals 	f or 	w hich 	w e 	h ave 	l imited 	
transparency 	a nd 	d etails. 	W e 	e stimate 	
that	s ince 	2 020, 	a pproximately 	3 .9 	m illion 	
metric 	 tons	 (mt)	 of	 greenhouse 	 gas	
emissions 	h ave 	b een 	a voided 	a s 	a 	r esult 	o f	
our	r enewable 	e nergy, 	g reen 	a ffordable 	housing 	an d	e nergy 	e fficiency 	fin ancing 	
activities. 	A dditionally, 	w e	e stimate 	
that	o ur 	fi nancing 	a ctivities 	su pported 	
approximately 	1 .8 	m illion 	j obs, 	a ffected 		
26	m illion 	p eople 	g lobally 	a nd	c ontributed 	
to	a pproximately 	$ 9.5 	b illion 	i n 	U .S. 	G DP. 	
We	c onsider 	i mpact 	m easurement 	a n 	a rea 	
of	o ngoing 	e ducation 	a nd 	i mprovement, 	
and	we	 will	 continue 	 to	 challenge 	 ourselves 	
in	t his 	a rea. 	
Sustainable Finance  
in Action
The	global 	market 	for	sustainable 	finance 	
has	been 	growing 	rapidly 	over	the	last	
few	years 	in	response 	to	the	climate 	
emergency 	and	COVID-19. 	Investors 	and	
companies 	alike 	recognize 	the	pivotal 	
role	that	the	financial 	services 	sector 	will	
play	in	facilitating 	a	socially 	responsible 	
economic 	recovery 	that	also	accelerates 	
the	transition 	to	a	more 	sustainable, 	
low-carbon 	economy. 		
The	volume 	of	sustainable 	debt	issuances, 	
for	example, 	broke 	records 	in	2021, 	
surpassing 	$1.6	trillion 	—	more 	than 	
double 	the	$762 	billion 	of	sustainable 	
1.	Bloomberg 	NEF	(BNEF), 	1H	2022 	Sustainable 	Finance 	Market 	Outlook .
2.	https://www.refinitiv.com/perspectives/market-insights/sustainable-finance-continues-surge-in-2021/ .Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
22
debt	issuances 	in	2020, 	which 	itself 	had	
set	records.1	The	sustainable 	mergers 	and	
acquisitions 	deal	activity 	reached 		
$197 	billion 	in	2021, 	which 	was	a	60% 	
increase 	from 	2020 	activity.2
Growth 	also	continues 	to	be	seen 	in	the	
markets 	for	sustainability-linked 	financing, 	
one	of	the	fastest-growing 	innovations 	in	
sustainable 	finance. 	Sustainability-linked 	
instruments 	a re 	g eneral 	c orporate 	p urpose 	
transactions 	that	use	key	performance 	
indicators 	(KPIs) 	and	sustainability 	targets 	
to	measure 	a	company’s 	progress, 	which 	
result 	in	a	reduced 	financing 	rate	if	the	
target 	is	met	or	a	penalty 	if	the	company 	
fails	to	meet 	the	target. 	With	momentum 	
gained 	in	recent 	years, 	the	growth 	of	
sustainability-linked 	financing 	extended 	
to	the	global 	leveraged 	finance 	markets 	
in	2021;2	sustainability-linked 	transaction 	
volumes 	increased 	significantly 	across 	
leveraged 	loan	and	high-yield 	bond 	
issuances, 	highlighting 	the	popularity 	of	tying 	sustainability 	performance 	to	cost	of	
financing. 	This	innovation 	is	also	expected 	
to	grow 	in	the	derivative 	markets, 	
with	sustainability-linked 	derivatives. 	
Acknowledging 	this	momentum 	in	the	
market, 	we	count 	sustainability-linked 	
instruments 	toward 	Citi’s 	sustainable 	
finance 	goal	when 	they	incorporate 	
sustainability 	key	performance 	indicators 	
and	targets 	that	are	aligned 	with	at	least 	
one	of	the	goal	criteria.
The	growth 	of	sustainable 	capital 	markets 	
has	also	been 	driven 	by	corporations, 	
sovereigns 	and	supranational 	institutions 	
focused 	on	achieving 	their 	sustainability 	
commitments, 	contributing 	to	the	SDGs 	
and	aligning 	with	the	goals 	of	the	Paris 	
Agreement. 		
Many 	of	our	business 	units 	across 	the	
bank 	contribute 	to	our	$1	trillion 	commit -
ment. 	There 	are	global 	industry 	specialist 	
teams 	that	focus 	on	different 	sectors 	and	industries, 	such 	as	the	recently 	
formed 	Natural 	Resources 	&	Clean 	Energy 	
Transition 	team, 	which 	engages 	with	
our	clients 	to	support 	their 	low-carbon 	
transition 	efforts, 	as	well	as	the	Citi	Social 	
Finance 	team, 	which 	partners 	with	busi-
ness 	units 	across 	Citi	to	help	drive 	inno-
vative 	efforts 	on	social 	finance 	activities 	
in	emerging 	markets. 	In	many 	instances, 	
the	deals 	have 	integrated 	and	interrelated 	
environmental 	and	social 	elements 	and	
impacts. 	For	additional 	information 	on	new	
teams 	we	created 	or	restructured 	over	the	
last	few	years 	to	engage 	with	clients 	on	
their 	sustainability 	and	transition 	journeys, 	
see	the	Sustainable 	Pr ogress 	s ection.
The	following 	are	just	some 	examples 	
of	innovative 	environmental 	and	social 	
finance 	transactions 	from 	2021 	that	will	
be	counted 	toward 	the	overall 	$1	trillion 	
commitment. 	
INCENTIVIZING SUPPLY CHAINS: M cCORMICK & COMPANY
Sustainable Agriculture
In 2021, Citi par tnered with McCormick & Company, a global leader in flavor, and 
the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to provide McCormick’s suppliers 
with financial incentives linked to improvements in measures of social and 
environmental sustainability. McCormick’s supply chain spans over 3,000 agricultural products sourced from more than 85 countries.
Under the initiative, suppliers can qualify for discounted rates on short-term 
working capital financing when they achieve sustainability standards accepted by McCormick. These standards include performance on labor conditions, health 
and safety practices, crop management, environmental impact, farmer resilience 
and women’s empowerment. The partnership included an advisory component in Vietnam, where IFC is helping McCormick build a more sustainable, traceable, 
certified and quality-compliant pepper supply chain through capacity development 
and the empowerment of women farmers.  
2.	https://www.refinitiv.com/perspectives/market-insights/sustainable-finance-continues-surge-in-2021/ .Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
23
LINKING LOANS TO SUSTAINABILITY METRICS 
Diversity & Equity
The investment firm BlackRock has been a vocal leader in encouraging companies 
to set and meet environmental and social sustainability goals. In 2021, BlackRock 
amended its $4.4 billion revolving credit agreement to incorporate certain  
sustainability-linked metrics.
Citi acted as joint lead arranger and co-sustainability structuring agent for the 
5-year sustainability-linked loan that ties BlackRock’s borrowing costs to its ability 
to achieve certain targets for increased representation of women in leadership and higher representation of Black and Latinx employees in its U.S. workforce, as well 
as increasing sustainable assets under management. Pursuant to the terms of the 
credit agreement, BlackRock’s applicable borrowing costs are subject to upward or downward adjustments on an annual basis if BlackRock achieves, or fails to achieve, 
certain specified targets. The facility reinforces BlackRock’s commitment and 
accountability to achieving certain sustainability goals by integrating a component of financial alignment through its liquidity management strategy. 
 EXPANDING ACCESS TO RELIABLE ENERGY IN KENYA 
Renewable Energy and Affordable Basic Infrastructure
Off-grid solar home systems are a v ital way to expand access to reliable energy.  
Citi was the sole coordinator on a $75 million transaction to expand access to off-grid 
solar energy in Kenya. The financing will support Greenlight Planet’s ambitions to 
reach an additional 10 million households in low-income, off-grid communities over  
the next five years. 
Greenlight Planet Kenya is a group company of Greenlight Planet Inc., a leading 
designer, distributor and financier of rooftop solar home systems for off-grid and weak-grid homes. Through its network of 200 branches and 8,000 field agents, 
Greenlight sells its Sun King-branded solar energy systems directly to its off-grid 
residential clients and provides “pay-as-you-go” financing to facilitate their purchase.  
To date, the company’s Sun King products have saved customers more than  
$4 billion cumulatively, which would otherwise be used to purchase CO2-emitting  
kerosene lanterns and to charge mobile phones.  
EXPANDING ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE IN SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Healthcare
mPharma is working to expand access to healthcare across low-income communities in sub-Saharan Africa. By optimizing supply chains and increasing efficiencies, mPharma 
is able to bring high-quality, affordable medicines to communities most in need — the 
so-called “last mile” of distribution for pharmaceuticals and vaccines. mPharma also provides financing solutions for mom-and-pop pharmacies, clinics and patients in 
underserved areas such as Ghana, Nigeria, Zambia and Kenya. 
Thanks to a line of credit from Citi under Scaling Enterprise, a partnership with the 
U.S. DFC and the Ford Foundation, mPharma will be able to serve more than 2 million 
patients in the countries where it operates. Health clinics that operate with mPharma 
report a decrease of up to 25% in medical-related complications. Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
24
SUPPORTING COVID-19 RESILIENCE THROUGH UNICEF
Healthcare
The global pandemic has exacerbated poverty rates and global inequality, affecting 
millions of children worldwide. The World Bank and the United Nations Children’s 
Fund (UNICEF) were looking for new ways to accelerate funding to meet the 
increasingly urgent needs for their joint pandemic relief programs. 
Citi acted as sole structure and arranger for a first-of-its kind $100 million bond 
transaction from the World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, which allowed UNICEF to access capital markets funding to support its private sector fundraising activities. The bond gave institutional and high net 
worth investors an opportunity to support UNICEF’s work with children, including 
COVID-19 resilience programs around the world. The cash flows on the bond are linked to future donations to UNICEF.
The bond proceeds will support two programs: $50 million will be used by the 
World Bank to finance its sustainable development programs, including projects targeting the health and socioeconomic impacts of COVID-19; the other $50 million 
will be allocated to UNICEF to expand programs in 18 countries, targeting future 
funding of up to $450 million.
 EMPOWERING WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS IN MEXICO 
Economic Inclusion and Diversity & Equity
Women represent one-third of entrepreneurs in Mexico, yet they typically have few opportunities to access financial investments for their businesses. In 2021, 
Citi partnered with the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) 
and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to provide $70 million to Banco Compartamos, the largest microfinance institution in Mexico. 
Compartamos, which translates to “let’s share” in Spanish, is using the funding to 
support and empower more than 135,000 small businesses, approximately 90% of them women-owned. A portion of the loans is dedicated to the less developed 
regions of the country, including Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero and Puebla. Learn 
more in this video .  
DEVELOPING MORE SUSTAINABLE RAIL LINES 
Sustainable Transportation
The devel opment of a 25-kilometer monorail line is one of the largest construction 
projects in Panama since the expansion of the Panama Canal. Citi acted as sole 
global coordinator and mandated lead arranger for $2 billion in green loans for 
the Panama Metro project on behalf of a consortium of Korean companies led by Hyundai Engineering & Construction.
The elevated train line will have initial capacity to transport 18,000 passengers 
per hour in each direction, with an ultimate goal of more than 30,000 passengers per hour in each direction. The monorail will incorporate Hitachi’s B-CHOP system, 
which harnesses the train’s regenerative energy to substantially reduce energy 
consumption while the train is in braking mode. The system is expected to cut back 20,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions annually while providing energy for 
future use. Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
25
STRUCTURING A GREEN HYBRID BOND
Clean Technology
Citi helpe d German chemicals company Evonik Industries, one of the world leaders 
in specialty chemicals, issue a € 500 million green hybrid bond in 2021 — acting as 
sole green structuring advisor, joint structuring agent, joint global coordinator and 
joint bookrunner on the transaction.
The corporate hybrid bond structure can be attractive to issuers, particularly in 
Europe, that are looking for a stronger credit profile or financial flexibility. The 
green issuance followed the publication of Evonik’s Green Finance Framework, which integrates sustainability into the company’s financial strategy. Under the framework, 
proceeds from green financing instruments may be used for eligible projects in the 
areas of eco-efficient products, energy efficiency and renewable energy. 
Proceeds of this green hybrid bond issuance will primarily be used to finance 
investments in Evonik’s Next Generation Solutions — products and solutions  
with sustainability benefits that Evonik expects to grow significantly in the  coming years. 
FINANCING RENEWABLE ENERGY WHILE INCREASING DIVERSITY
Renewable Energy and Diversity & Equity
In November, C iti provided AES’ Clean Energy business, a leading renewables  
development platform in the United States, with financing to fund the construction  
and operation of the Skipjack Solar Project outside Richmond, Virginia. The project  
is expected to provide 225 megawatts-DC (175 megawatts-AC) of renewable energy  capacity;  once online, the project will sell 100% of its solar energy output under a  
14-year, fixed-price agreement to one of the largest power generator companies in  the U.S.
The transaction also included a milestone: Citi’s first execution of a sustainability- 
linked derivative for a construction project — a KPI-linked interest rate swap to  
support the financing of the project. Under the terms, AES commits to achieving  key performance indicators linked to increasing gender diversity measured by  
employees who self-identify as female or nonbinary employees and increasing new  hire employees who self-identify as members of an underrepresented group. 
Citi acted as coordinating lead arranger, lender, and swap syndication arranger on  
this transaction, providing a comprehensive financing package for AES, a company  
that is focused on accelerating the future of energy, together.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
26
$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance Commitment
Financial Data*
In billions USD
Sustainable Finance 2020** 2021 $ %
Environmental Finance $ 33.0 $ 130.1 $ 163.1 73.4%
Social Finance $ 29.4 $ 2 9.6 $ 59.0 26.6%
Total $ 62.4 $ 159.7 $ 222 .1 100%
Sustainable Finance Criteria 2020 2021 Total %
Circular Economy 0.4 2.1 2.5 1.1%
Clean Technology 0.6 0.0 0.6 0.3%
Energy Efficiency 1.2 2.5 3.7 1.6%
Green Buildings 1.6 1.4 2.9 1.3%
Renewable Energy 7.0 19.5 26.5 11.9%
Sustainable Agriculture & Land Use 0.2 0.0 0.2 0.1%
Sustainable Transportation 3.7 46.7 50.4 22.7%
Water Quality & Conservation 1.3 1.6 2.9 1.3%
Environmental: Multiple††12.9 47.7 60.6 27.3%
Affordable Basic Infrastructure 0.7 0.3 1.0 0.5%
Affordable Housing 10.4 10.6 21.0 9.5%
Diversity & Equity 0.3 0.3 0.6 0.3%
Economic Inclusion 3.9 2.7 6.6 3.0%
Education 4.3 0.9 5.3 2.4%
Healthcare 4.1 1.9 6.0 2.7%
Food Security 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0%
Social: Multiple††1.4 4.3 5.7 2.6%
Environmental & Social†††8.5 17.1 25.6 11.5%
Total 62.4 159.7 222.1 100%Region 2020 2021 Total %
Asia Pacific $ 5.0 $ 13.2 $ 18.2 8.2%
Europe, Middle East  
and Africa$ 1 5.6 $ 44.0 $ 59.6 26.8%
Latin America $ 2.4 $ 7. 1 $ 9.5 4.3%
North America $ 39.4 $ 95.4 $ 134.8 60.7%
Total $ 62.4 $ 159.7 $ 222 .1 100%Business 2020 2021 Total %
Investment Banking $ 50.1 $ 149.6 $ 199.6 89.9%
    Mergers & Acquisitions $ 5.3 $ 5 7.4 $ 62.7
    Debt Capital Markets $ 30.4 $ 77 .6 $ 108.0
         Thematic Bonds (Green, Social, Sustainable) $ 25.8 $ 44.5 $ 70.3
         Sustainability-Linked Bonds $ 0.0 $ 4.2 $ 4.2
         Sustainability-Linked Loans $ 4.6 $ 2 7.9 $ 32.5
         Green and Other Loans $ 0.0 $ 1.0 $ 1.0
    Equity Capital Markets $ 2.8 $ 3.4 $ 6.2
    Municipal Underwriting $ 11.6 $ 11.3 $ 22.8
Corporate Lending***$ 10.7 $ 9.3 $ 20.0 9.0%
Treasury & Trade Solutions $ 1.4 $ 0.6 $ 2.0 0.9%
Markets†$ 0.3 $ 0.1 $ 0.4 0.2%
Corporate/Other (Citi Investments) $ 0.0 $ 0.1 $ 0.1 0.1%
Total $ 62.4 $ 159.7 $ 222 .1 100%
*	Figures 	may	not	sum	to	totals 	due	to	rounding.
**	Following 	the	announcement 	of	the	$1	trillion 	sustainable 	finance 	commitment 		
in	2021, 	we	performed 	a	retroactive 	review 	of	2020 	sustainable 	finance 		
activities 	using 	our	updated 	goal	criteria, 	which 	is	reflected 	in	the	accounting 		
of	environmental 	and	social 	finance 	activities 	on	this	page.
***	“Corporate 	Lending” 	includes, 	but	is	not	limited 	to,	financing 	for	community
capital 	(affordable 	housing), 	commercial 	banking, 	clean 	energy 	finance, 	project
finance, 	and	other 	lending.
†	“Markets” 	currently 	includes, 	but	is	not	limited 	to,	commodities 	transactions
that	meet 	renewable 	energy 	criteria.
†	†	Denotes 	activities 	falling 	under 	multiple 	environmental 	or	social 	criteria,
including 	green 	or	social 	bond 	transactions 	where 	the	issuer’s 	framework
comprises 	multiple 	eligible 	categories.
†	†	†	Refers 	to	transactions 	that	met	both 	environmental 	and	social 	finance
criteria. 	Credit 	for	such 	transactions 	were 	split	evenly 	between 	the
environmental 	and	social 	finance 	goals.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
27
$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance Commitment
Impact Data
Environmental Impacts 2020 2021 Total
1) Avoided greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (mt CO2e) 2,665,387 1,221,796 3,887,184
From renewable energy projects 2,479,658 995,850 3,475,508
From green affordable housing finance 1,897 789 2,686
From energy efficiency finance 183,832 225,158 408,990
2) Renewable energy capacity added (MW) 1,650 718 2,368
Social Impacts 2020 2021 Total
1) Total people impacted 11,130,783 14,901,937 26,032,720
People impacted through microfinance and home solar systems 307,421 1,407,205 1,714,626
People impacted through renewable energy projects 1,822,972 1,035,387 2,858,359
People impacted from affordable housing projects 52,305 44,556 96,861
People impacted from education projects 247,220 46,651 293,872
People impacted from water improvement projects 2,013,124 12,282,759 14,295,882
People impacted from transit systems 6,687,741 85,379 6,773,120
2) Total jobs supported 360,608 1,397,725 1,758,333
Jobs supported through microfinance and home solar systems 307,421 1,351,650 1,659,071
Jobs supported through renewable energy projects 4,485 4,237 8,721
Jobs supported from affordable housing projects 38,904 30,519 69,423
Jobs supported from education projects 7,701 7,012 14,713
Jobs supported from water improvement projects 1,565 3,465 5,030
Jobs supported from transit systems 534 841 1,375The reporting on our progress toward our $1 trillion commitment in sustainable finance by 2030 includes measuring the en -
vironmental and social impacts associated with contributing sustainable finance projects. Where feasible, we have estimated 
the impacts representative of Citi’s financing and facilitation activities. Our impact measurement methodologies align with our 
accounting approach, reporting our share of the impacts proportional to our financial share of the transaction.
Impact Calculation Methodology Summary
Citi initiatives help to create measurable impacts for communities across the world. To estimate the environmental and social impacts of Citi-financed projects and activities we looked at the following metrics:
 •Avoided GHG emissions refers to the amount of GHG emissions avoided because of Citi’s share of financing for renewable energy, green affordable housing and energy efficiency projects. GHG emissions avoidance is calculated by applying regional 
electric grid factors to Citi’s share of financing across three types of activities, including a low-carbon source replacing energy 
use from the grid, energy efficiency upgrades and green housing units that are LEED-certified. Impacts reflect the per annum 
benefit as opposed to benefit over entire project life.
• For renewable energy projects, total project capacity for energy is calculated as the annual capacity factor applied to  
the total project size per annum and multiplied by the CO2 emissions factor. 
• For energy efficiency upgrades, the average household energy savings is calculated as the average household energy  use multiplied by the percentage of energy savings per thousand U.S. dollars invested. The result is multiplied by the  
total warehouse value and the CO
2 emissions factor. Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
28
• For green buildings, the average household energy savings is equal to the average energy use of a non-LEED-certified 
building multiplied by the percentage of energy savings by a LEED-certified building. The result is multiplied by the number 
of square feet and the per square feet CO2 emission factor.
 •Renewable energy capacity added  refers to the size of new renewable energy capacity installed as a result of Citi’s share of 
renewable energy project financings. 
 •People impacted  refers to the direct number of people benefiting from the use of Citi-financed lending activities for small 
businesses, renewable energy and energy efficiency projects, affordable housing, and underwritten municipal bond proceeds for transit, water and education projects. 
• For microfinance lending activities, people impacted is equivalent to the number of entrepreneurs and small farm holders 
receiving business loans as self-reported by Citi teams.
• For renewable energy projects and energy efficiency finance, people impacted is equivalent to the number of people whose annual energy usage is supplied by the project. Estimated renewable energy generation annually due to Citi financing is 
divided by average energy consumption per capita in the country of the project to estimate number of people impacted.
• For affordable housing, the number of people impacted is calculated using external reference data on average household 
size multiplied by the number of housing units constructed.
• For municipal bond financing related to education projects, people impacted is estimated as the number of enrolled school children benefiting from new or repaired school buildings or purchases of equipment. External education data on average 
student enrollment by school, and the number of schools benefiting from funding as stated in issuance documents, was 
used for this calculation.
 •Direct jobs supported refers to the number of jobs supported by the uses of Citi-financed lending or underwritten municipal bond proceeds. Jobs supported are related to Citi’s share of new financing for the projects. For microfinance lending, jobs 
supported are equal to the number of entrepreneurs and smallholder farmers that received loans. For projects involving new 
construction or maintenance and repair of affordable housing units, renewable energy generation, schools, transit or water 
systems in the United States, jobs supported are calculated as Citi-financed expenditures divided by output per worker supplied 
by the IMPLAN  economic modeling system. For projects involving renewable energy generation in locations outside the United 
States, external data is used to estimate the share of project cost involving installation (labor), and this is divided by average compensation of workers in the country to estimate jobs supported.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
29
In This Section
33	Financing 	the	Low-Carbon 	Transition
37	Climate 	Risk	and	Net	Zero
50	 Sustainable 	OperationsSustainable 	
	 ProgressContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT 30The	climate 	crisis 	has	created 	not	just	an	
opportunity 	to	lead	—	but	an	opportunity 	
to	partner: 	working 	with	our	clients 	to	
decarbonize 	their 	businesses 	as	part	of	
our	journey 	to	net	zero.
The	science 	is	clear, 	as	is	the	need 	to	move 	
urgently 	toward 	a	low-carbon 	economy. 	
The	financial 	sector 	has	a	critical 	role	
to	play	in	supporting 	other 	industries 	
to	reduce 	their 	environmental 	impacts 	
and	transition 	their 	business 	models 	in	
line	with	what 	is	needed 	to	keep 	global 	
warming 	to	1.5°C.
Our	Sustainable 	Progress 	Strategy 	builds 	
on	our	decades-long 	track 	record 	in	sustainability 	and	environmental 	finance. 	
To	drive 	the	transition 	to	a	low-carbon 	
economy, 	we	are	drawing 	on	our	expertise, 	
expanding 	our	business 	unit	capabilities 	
and	deepening 	our	engagement 	with	
the	carbon-intensive 	sectors 	that	are	of	
highest 	priority 	for	transformation. 		
The	s trategy, 	w hich 	i s 	i ntegrated 	i nto 	
our	Environmental 	a nd 	S ocial 	P olicy 	
Framework ,	f ocuses 	o n 	t hree 	a reas: 	
financing 	t he 	l ow-carbon 	t ransition ,	
deepening 	c limate 	r isk 	a ssessment 	
and	d isclosure ,	a nd 	reducing 	t he 	
environmental 	i mpacts 	o f 	o ur 	o wn 	
operations .	T he 	e nvironmental 	fi nance 	
transactions 	t hat 	c ount 	t oward 	o ur 	$1	tr illion 	c ommitment 	t o	su stainable 	
finance, 	w hich 	a lso 	i ncludes 	a 	c ommitment 	
to	s ocial 	fi nance, 	i llustrate 	h ow 	C iti 	i s 	
contributing 	t o 	t he 	l ow-carbon 	t ransition. 	
One	y ear 	a fter 	s etting 	o ur 	S ustainable 	
Progress 	S trategy, 	w e 	t ook 	a n 	i mportant 	
next	s tep 	o n 	t he 	p ath 	t oward 	a 	l ow-carbon 	
future, 	p ledging 	t o 	a chieve 	net	z ero 	
greenhouse 	gas	(GHG) 	e missions 	f or 	o ur 	
financing 	( by 	2 050) 	a nd 	f or 	o ur 	o perations 	
(by	2030). 			
Sustainable Progress Strategy
Low-Carbon  
TransitionAccelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy
Finance and facilitate low-carbon solutions and support our  
clients in their decarbonization and transition strategies
Climate RiskMeasure, manage and reduce the climate risk and 
impact of our client portfolio
Continue our work on policy development, portfolio analysis 
and stakeholder engagement, as well as enhancing our TCFD implementation and disclosure  
Sustainable  
OperationsReduce the environmental footprint of our facilities  
and strengthen our sustainability culture
Minimize the impact of our global operations through operational 
footprint goals and further integrate sustainable practices across the company Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
31
1997 20032006
2015 20102000 2014
20072008
Joined 	t he  UN  
Environment 
Programme  
Finance Initiative  
(UNEP FI)
Joined  UN 
Global Compact20172016Published 	
first	Global 
Citizenship Report
Issued 	world’s 	
first local investment-grade microfinance bond
Co-created  
Equator  Principles   
and	our		
broader 		
ESRM Policy First 	U.S.	bank 	to	
publish  Statement on 
Human Rights
First 	U.S.	bank 	to	set	
CO2 reduction target
 
Launched 	1 0-year   
$50B Climate Initiative
Participated 	in	the 
first-ever global IPO in microfinanceCo-created 	
The Green Bond PrinciplesCommenced 	2020 	
(3rd	ge neration) 	
environmental footprint goals
Launched 	o riginal  
Sustainable Progress Strategy and $100B 
Environmental  
Finance Goal2020
Issued 	inaugural €1B 
green bond
Signed 	onto 	the	
Principles for Responsible Banking
	
Co-developed 	t he	
Poseidon Principles 	
Joined 	the	UN 
Global Investors for Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance
	Joined 	the	Sustainable 
Markets Initiative 	Financial 	
Services 	Task	Force
Announced 	Net Zero 
Emissions by 2050 	
commitment 	
Announced 	$1T in 
sustainable finance by  2030
	commitment 	
Co-founded 	the	Net Zero 
Banking Alliance (NZBA) 	
Partnered 	with	the	UN 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)
Issued 	$1B social finance 
bond 	
Joined 	the	Rocky Mountain 
Institute Center for Climate-Aligned FinanceAnnounced 	
100% renewable electricity
	by	
2020 	goal2018Published 	fi rst	
TCFD Report
2019Joined 	Partnership  
for Carbon Accounting Financials
	
Launched 	Sustainable 
Progress Strategy 	
Published 	2020 TCFD 
Report 	
Achieved 	100% 
renewable electricity 		
for	all	facilities 	
Joined 	the	European 
Clean Hydrogen Alliance
	
Issued 	$1.5B green  
bond 	
Launched 	Action  
for Racial Equity 		
$1B	commitment 	
Launched 	$200M 
Impact FundPublished 	2021 
TCFD Report, 	
which 	includes 	our	
initial 	Net Zero 
by 2050 Plan ,	
and	2030 interim 
targets 	for	Energy 	
and	Power 	loan	
portfolios
20212022Citi’s Sustainability Journey
Citi has been engaging in sustainability and environmental initiatives  
for more than 20 years, and we continue to advance our leadership  and partnerships across the industry. 
Structured 	first 
securitization 
of microfinance assets
	in	the	worldContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
32
Financing 	the	Low-Carbon 	Transition
One of the core elements of our 
Sustainable Progress Strategy is 
our commitment to finance and 
facilitate activities that accelerate 
the transition to a low-carbon 
economy. We doubled our previous 
commitment of $250 billion 
by 2025 and set an ambitious 
$1 trillion sustainable finance 
commitment  by 2030 — half for 
environmental finance and half  for social finance. 
But	it’s	not	just	about 	financing 	and	
facilitating 	transactions. 	Working 	collabo -
ratively 	with	our	clients 	in	decarbonizing 	
and	helping 	them 	in	their 	transitions 	is	
a	central 	focus 	of	our	net	zero	plan.	We	
believe 	systemic 	collaboration 	is	essential 	
for	the	global 	economy 	to	reach 	net	
zero	emissions. 	We	are	already 	engaging 	
with	numerous 	clients 	with	respect 	to	
their 	climate 	exposure 	profile. 	We	intend 	
to	deepen 	our	engagement 	with	them 	
to	understand 	their 	transition 	plans 	in	
greater 	detail 	as	those 	plans 	evolve 	and	
help	them 	in	their 	strategies 	to	realize 	
opportunities 	inherent 	in	transitioning 	to	a	
low-carbon 	world. 	
Transforming Our 
Business to Support a 
Low-Carbon Economy
Climate 	change 	has	become 	a	C-suite 	
issue 	for	clients 	in	all	sectors 	of	the	global 	
economy, 	in	terms 	of	growth 	opportunities 	
and	risk	management, 	and	ESG	consider -
ations 	a re 	i ncreasingly 	p art 	o f 	o ur 	b usiness 	
conversations. 	To	support 	client 	needs, 	
we	have 	expanded 	our	client 	engagement 	
offerings 	across 	our	business 	to	offer 	
strategic 	sustainability 	and	ESG	services 	
and	so lutions.Our	business 	groups 	are	focused 	on	
helping 	clients 	in	all	sectors, 	no	matter 	
where 	they	are	in	their 	own	sustainability 	
journeys. 	We	offer 	customized 	products 	
and	services 	to	support 	clients 	in	their 	
transition 	to	more 	sustainable 	business 	
models 	and	practices 	that	will	advance 	
progress 	toward 	a	low-carbon 	future.
Within 	Banking, Capital Markets and 
Advisory (BCMA) ,	sustainability 	and	ESG	
is	being 	integrated 	into	our	businesses 	
and	client 	engagements. 	We	engage 	with	
C-suite 	executives, 	boards 	of	directors 	and	treasury 	teams 	on	strategic 	financing 	
using 	a	sustainability 	lens, 	providing 	
insights 	about 	industry 	transformations, 	
trends 	and	sustainability 	risks 	and	
opportunities. 	
In	early 	2021, 	we	created 	the	Natural 	
Resources 	&	Clean 	Energy 	Transition 	
(NRCET) 	team 	to	drive 	client 	engagement 	
efforts 	in	the	Energy, 	Power 	and	Chemicals 	
sectors. 	This	team 	unites 	seasoned 	corpo -
rate	and	investment 	bankers 	with	deep 	
knowledge 	of	these 	sectors 	under 	a	single 	
umbrella 	to	assist 	our	clients 	with	the	net	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
33
zero	transition. 	Our	Sustainability 	and	
Corporate 	Transitions 	(SCT) 	team, 	founded 	
in	2020, 	also	engages 	with	clients 	at	the	
C-suite 	and	senior 	levels 	across 	sectors 	
to	support 	the	transition 	of	their 	business 	
models 	to	a	sustainable 	and	low-carbon 	
future, 	helping 	them 	identify 	their 	ESG	
challenges 	and	opportunities 	to	shape 	
their 	strategy. 	
In	2021, 	Citi	served 	as	the	exclusive 	
financial 	advisor 	to	South 	Korean 	
conglomerate 	SK	Holdings 	in	a	transaction 	
noted 	as	the	largest 	investment 	ever	in	
the	hydrogen 	fuel	cell	space. 	The	$1.6	
billion 	deal	gave 	SK	Group 	a	9.9% 	stake 	
in	Plug	Power 	Inc.,	a	leading 	provider 	of	
hydrogen 	fuel	cell	and	green 	hydrogen 	
generation 	systems 	in	North 	America. 	The	
two	companies 	entered 	into	a	strategic 	
partnership 	to	provide 	hydrogen 	fuel	cell	
systems, 	hydrogen 	fueling 	stations 	and	
electrolyzers 	to	the	Korean 	and	broader 	
Asian 	markets 	in	order 	to	accelerate 	
hydrogen 	as	an	alternative 	clean 	energy 	
source 	throughout 	Asia.
South 	Korea 	is	one	of	the	most 	important 	
and	developed 	markets 	for	hydrogen. 	The	government 	has	set	a	roadmap 	with	
ambitious 	goals 	to	build 	a	hydrogen-based 	
economy 	by	2040. 	
Also	in	BCMA, 	our	Sustainable 	Debt 	
Capital 	Markets 	(Sustainable 	DCM) 	
team 	has	technical 	expertise 	on	green, 	
social 	and	sustainability 	bonds 	as	well	
as	sustainability-linked 	bonds 	(SLB), 	and	
works 	within 	debt	capital 	markets 	and	with	
industry 	b ankers 	t o 	o riginate 	a nd 	s tructure 	
issuances 	for	these 	types 	of	bonds 	on	
behalf 	of	clients 	around 	the	world. 	The	
Sustainable 	DCM 	team 	also	advises 	Citi	
Treasury 	on	Citi’s 	own	sustainable 	debt	
issuance 	programs.
The	Sustainable 	DCM 	team 	has	helped 	
numerous 	clients 	globally 	structure 	
innovative 	sustainability-linked 	bonds 	
(SLB) 	tied	to	sustainability 	goals. 	Such 	
bonds 	are	an	example 	of	KPI-linked 	
instruments 	that	commit 	the	issuer 	
or	borrower 	to	specific 	sustainability 	
objectives, 	such 	as	greenhouse 	gas	
(GHG) 	emissions 	reduction 	or	other 	key	
performance 	indicators 	(KPIs). 	
Citi	acted 	as	SLB	Structuring 	Advisor 	and	
Active 	Bookrunner 	on	Johnson 	Controls 	International 	(JCI)’s 	inaugural 	$500 	million 	
SLB	in	September 	2021. 	As	part	of	this	
transaction, 	JCI	committed 	to	(i)	reduce 	
absolute 	Scope 	1	and	2	GHG	emissions 	
by	35% 	and	(ii)	reduce 	absolute 	Scope 	
3	GHG	emissions 	from 	the	use	of	sold	
products 	by	5%,	all	by	2025 	from 	a	2017 	
baseline, 	supporting 	JCI’s 	long-term 	net	
zero	emissions 	by	2040 	target. 	Failure 	to	
achieve 	these 	targets 	will	result 	in	a	25	
basis 	point 	coupon 	step-up. 	JCI	was	also	
the	first	S&P	500	company 	to	publish 	an	
integrated 	sustainable 	finance 	framework 	
encompassing 	both 	use-of-proceeds 	
bonds 	(green, 	social 	or	sustainability) 	
and	sustainability-linked 	bonds, 	allowing 	
JCI	to	issue 	any/all 	sustainable 	financing 	
instruments. 	
In	another 	 first, 	 Citi	 client 	 Tesco 	 became 	
the	first	 UK	 corporate 	 and	 the	 first	
retailer 	 globally 	 to	 launch 	 a	 SLB	 tied	
to	ambitious 	 GHG 	 emissions 	 reduction 	
targets 	 in	 January 	 2021. 	 As	 the	 largest 	
retailer 	 in	 the	 United 	 Kingdom, 	 Tesco 	
PLC	 has	 the	 ability 	 to	 make 	 a	 significant 	
impact 	 on	 the	 path 	 to	 a	 low-carbon 	 future. 	
Tesco 	 is	 aiming 	 to	 become 	 carbon 	 neutral 	
across 	 its	 own	 operations 	 by	 2035 	 and	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
34
net	zero	 across 	 the	 value 	 chain 	 by	 2050. 	
Citi	acted 	 as	 structuring 	 advisor 	 and	
active 	 bookrunner 	 on	 the	€750	m illion 	
SLB. 	 As	 part	 of	 this	 bond 	 issuance, 	 Tesco 	
agreed 	 to	 cut	 its	 Scope 	 1	 and	 2	 GHG 	 emis -
sions 	 by	 60% 	 by	 2025, 	 relative 	 to	 a	 2015 	
baseline. 	 Failure 	 to	 achieve 	 this	 target 	 in	
Tesco’s 	2 025 	fi nancial 	y ear 	w ill 	r esult 	i n	
a	25	 basis 	 point 	 step-up 	 in	 the	 coupon 	 in	
2027, 	2 028 	a nd 	2 029, 	r einforcing 	T esco’s 	
climate 	 commitments 	 to	 both 	 external 	 and	
internal 	s takeholders. 	
Also	i n 	2 021, 	C iti 	s erved 	a s 	s ole 	
structuring 	a dvisor 	a nd 	l ead 	l eft 	
bookrunner 	f or 	a 	$ 2.8 	b illion 	g reen 	b ond 	
offering 	f or 	A rdagh 	M etal 	P ackaging, 	a 	
global 	l eader 	in	s ustainable 	a luminum 	
packaging 	so lutions. 	T he	o ffering 	w as	
the	l argest-ever 	h igh-yield 	g reen 	b ond 	
completed 	t o 	d ate. 	A rdagh 	h as 	p ublished 	a 	
Green 	F inancing 	F ramework 	t hat 	p rovides 	
details 	o n 	t he 	e ligible 	u se 	o f 	p roceeds. 		
In	our	Global Markets 	business, 	we	
recently 	established 	a	dedicated 	ESG	team 	
to	support 	our	client 	engagement 	through 	
the	integration 	of	strategic 	sustainability 	
and	ESG	services 	and	solutions. 	Global 	
Markets 	provides 	clients 	with	ESG	thought 	
leadership 	about 	trends, 	market 	evolution, 	
themes, 	integration 	and	data-driven 	anal-
ysis.	We	aim	to	lead	our	clients 	through 	
the	rapidly 	evolving 	landscape 	of	ESG	by	
partnering 	with	clients 	to	develop 	new	
solutions 	across 	fixed-income, 	securitized 	
products, 	multi-asset 	strategies 	and	
sustainable 	real	assets, 	in	addition 	to	
our	full	range 	of	solutions 	in	equities. 	
Using 	our	strengths 	in	primary 	issuance 	
and	secondary 	trading, 	we	support 	the	
development 	of	deep, 	liquid 	and	efficient 	
sustainable 	markets. 	Citi	is	also	able	to	
address 	origination 	and	financing 	gaps 	for	
clean 	energy 	and	energy-efficiency 	project 	
developers 	and	investors 	by	working 	
across 	banking, 	advisory, 	origination 	and	
markets 	teams 	for	optimal 	client 	solutions.Our	Clean 	Energy 	Finance 	group, 	for	
example, 	has	expertise 	in	providing 	
full-service 	financing 	solutions 	for	a	broad 	
spectrum 	of	renewable 	energy 	technolo -
gies, 	serving 	as	a	one-stop 	shop 	for	our	
clients, 	as	well	as	financing 	to	help	clients 	
implement 	energy 	efficiency 	projects. 		
Citi Global Wealth ,	through 	its	Investing 	
with	Purpose 	approach, 	offers 	managed 	
opportunities, 	alternative 	investments 	
and	tailored 	exposure 	to	capital 	markets 	
to	help	clients 	pursue 	their 	sustainable 	
investment 	objectives. 	As	clients 	have 	
been 	increasingly 	concerned 	with	the	
impact 	their 	investments 	may	have 	on	
society 	and	the	environment, 	the	direction 	
of	sustainable 	investing 	is	evolving 	past	
socially 	responsible 	investing, 	and	Citi	
Global 	Wealth 	has	updated 	its	offerings 	to	
meet 	this	growing 	area	of	client 	demand. 	
The	Investing 	with	Purpose 	platform 	
provides 	opportunities 	for	private 	clients 	
to	invest 	alongside 	Citi’s 	institutional 	
clients. 	Multiple 	Citi	Global 	Wealth 	clients 	
have 	participated 	in	differentiated 	capital 	markets 	solutions 	supporting 	the	global 	
green 	energy 	transition, 	an	investment 	
thesis 	reaffirmed 	by	our	investment 	
strategy 	team. 	As	the	world 	goes 	greener, 	
the	opportunities 	for	Citi	Global 	Wealth 	
investors 	are	likely 	to	multiply 	over	the	
coming 	years, 	enabling 	us	to	build 	entire 	
core	and	opportunistic 	allocations 	that	
reflect 	sustainable 	principles 	—	a	process 	
we	might 	describe 	as	“greening 	your 	
portfolio.” 	
Our	Treasury and Trade Solutions (TTS) 	
business 	provides 	financing 	and	cash 	
management 	solutions 	to	clients 	across 	
the	globe. 		
We	have 	established 	a	global, 	cross-func -
tional 	ESG	working 	group 	to	develop 	holis -
tic	sustainable 	working 	capital, 	investment 	
and	cash 	management 	solutions. 	These 	
include, 	but	are	not	limited 	to,	Sustainable 	
Supply 	Chain 	Finance, 	Sustainable 	Trade 	
and	W orking 	C apital 	L oans 	a nd 	S ustainable 	
Deposits, 	as	well	as	Money 	Market 	Funds 	
with	ESG	principles 	embedded. 	Through 	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
35
Climate and Biodiversity 
We are continuing to learn about the complex dynamics between climate and 
biodiversity. These two topics are deeply interconnected, and there is an 
increasing awareness that climate change, along with other human-caused 
stresses on natural systems, is contributing to biodiversity loss and ongoing extinction events.
* “Natural capital” is a way to conceptualize the various 
resources and services that are provided by resilient ecosystems. This concept 
helps to inform the increasing focus on biodiversity, its impact on climate and the 
importance of disclosure. 
A recent Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (GPS) report: Biodiversity: The 
Ecosystem at the Heart of Business explores why businesses and investors should 
care about biodiversity loss. The report explains that businesses rely on nature 
for their products and ecosystem services such as clean air, water, pollination 
and carbon sequestration. At the same time, their operations create direct and indirect impacts on nature that can, and often do, negatively affect their 
business. By failing to understand the dependencies and impacts on nature and 
biodiversity, companies open themselves up to biodiversity risk that could affect the profitability of their businesses. This in turn poses risks to their investors.
There is a growing realization that we are losing biodiversity at an alarming rate. 
This requires urgent action that is complementary to climate action. Global wildlife populations have fallen an average of 68% in just 46 years,
** and human activities 
threaten 1 million animal and plant species with extinction.*** At the same time, 
there is a financing gap of $598 billion to $824 billion per year† for broad action on 
biodiversity, suggesting significant business opportunities. Additionally, nature-
positive solutions can create $10 trillion in business opportunities and 395 million 
new jobs by 2030.††  These solutions could deliver up to 37% of CO2 emission 
reductions by 2030.†††
To support our understanding and action on biodiversity, we are also a member of the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) Forum, a global and 
multidisciplinary consultative network of institutional supporters who share the 
vision and mission of the TNFD. (To learn more, see the Risk Management  section). 
*	See	Anthony 	D.	Barnosky 	et	al.,	Has the Earth’s Sixth Mass Extinction ... ,	471	NATURE 	51,	51	(2011); 	Gerardo
Ceballos 	et	al.,	Vertebrates on the Brink ... ,	117	(24)	PNAS 	13596 	(2020); 	Belinda 	Reyers 	&	Elizabeth 	R.	Selig,
Global Targets that Reveal .. .,	4	NATURE 	ECOLOGY 	&	EVOLUTION 	1011	(2020).
**	WWF, 	Living 	Planet 	Report 	2020: 	Bending 	the	Curve 	of	Biodiversity 	Loss 	(2020) ,	R.E.A. 	Almond, 	M.	Grooten
and	T.	Petersen 	(eds.) 	WWF, 	Gland, 	Switzerland.
***	IPBES, 	Global 	Assessment 	Report 	on	Biodiversity 	and	Ecosystem 	Services 	of	the	Intergovernmental
Science 	Policy 	Platform 	on	Biodiversity 	and	Ecosystem 	Services 	(May 	2019) ,	E.S.	Brondizio 	et	al.	(eds.), 	IPBES,
Bonn, 	Germany, 	ISBN: 	978-3-947851- 	20-1.
†	A.	Deutz 	et	al.,	Financing 	Nature: 	Closing 	the	Global 	Biodiversity 	Financing 	Gap	(September 	2020), 	The
Paulson 	Institute, 	The	Nature 	Conservancy 	and	the	Cornell 	Atkinson 	Center 	for	Sustainability.
††	World 	Economic 	Forum, 	New	Nature 	Economy 	Report 	II:	The	Future 	of	Nature 	and	Business 	(July 	2020) .
†††	B.W.	Griscom 	et	al.,	“Natural 	Climate 	Solutions” 	(October 	2017), 	Proceedings 	of	the	National 	Academy 	of
Sciences 	of	the	United 	States 	of	America, 	114	(44), 	pages 	11645-11650.our	Export 	Agency 	Finance 	business, 	
we	enhance 	our	clients’ 	ability 	to	access 	
capital 	in	higher 	risk	markets 	by	delivering 	
financial 	solutions 	in	partnership 	with	
Development 	Finance 	Intuitions, 	Export 	
Credit 	Agencies 	and	Multilateral 	Agencies 	
designed 	to	improve 	risk	capacity. 	Read 	
about 	the	Panama 	Metro 	project 	and	the	
Banco 	C ompartamos 	p roject .
In	November, 	we	launched 	our	first	
Sustainable 	Supply 	Chain 	Finance 	(SSCF) 	
program 	in	Asia	Pacific 	with	the	aim	of	
supporting 	clients 	as	they	advance 	their 	
ESG	priorities, 	improve 	the	resilience 	of	
their 	supply 	chains 	and	manage 	working 	
capital 	needs. 	The	program 	was	imple -
mented 	for	Henkel, 	the	German 	chemical 	
and	consumer 	goods 	company, 	and	is	
targeted 	at	existing 	or	new	suppliers 	
that	demonstrate 	strong 	or	improving 	
sustainability 	performance. 	Qualifying 	
suppliers 	can	access 	Citi’s 	supply 	chain 	
financing 	at	preferential 	rates 	on	a	tiered 	
basis, 	with	rates 	improving 	as	a	supplier’s 	
sustainability 	score 	improves. 	Henkel, 	with	
the	support 	of	a	global 	leading 	sustain -
ability 	assessment 	agency, 	will	assess 	the	
sustainability 	performance 	of	suppliers.
TTS’s 	Liquidity 	Management 	Services 	
support 	treasuries’ 	goals 	with	various 	
cash 	investment 	products 	that	have 	incor -
porated 	sustainability 	principles. 	Clients 	
can	invest 	their 	excess 	cash 	with	Money 	
Market 	Funds 	that	have 	incorporated 	ESG	
principles. 	In	December, 	we	expanded 	our	
innovative 	Green 	Minimum 	Maturity 	Time 	
Deposit, 	a	sustainable 	cash 	investment 	
product 	that	gives 	clients 	the	ability 	to	
invest 	their 	short-term 	liquidity 	in	environ -
mentally 	friendly 	projects. 	Investments 	
in	Citi’s 	green 	deposits 	or	new	Green 	
Minimum 	Time 	Deposits 	will	be	allocated 	
to	finance 	or	refinance 	a	portfolio 	of	green 	
projects 	that	meet 	the	rigorous 	environ -
mental 	finance 	eligibility 	criteria 	defined 	
in	our	Green 	Bond 	Framework. 	The	new	
product 	also	gives 	clients 	greater 	flexibility 	
to	extend 	the	investment 	period.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
36
Climate 		
Risk	and	
Net	Zero 	
When we consider the risks 
related to climate change, we 
apply a double materiality 
perspective, looking at both the 
impact of climate change on 
our business and our business’s 
impact on the climate. 
Citi’s 	 business 	 is	 exposed 	 to	 numerous 	
climate 	 risks 	 given 	 our	 role	 as	 one	 of	 the	
largest 	fi nanciers 	o f	t he	g lobal 	ec onomy, 	
including 	c arbon-intensive 	in dustries. 	T his	
means 	 that	 as	 we	 address 	 and	 mitigate 	
risks, 	 we	 must 	 take	 into	 account 	 how	 we	 will	
protect 	 and	 strengthen 	 our	 business 	 while 	
ensuring 	t hat 	o ur 	c lients 	b ecome 	p art 	o f	
the	s olutions 	t hat	a re	needed 	t o	t ransition 	
to	a	l ow-carbon 	ec onomy. 	
We	prioritize 	 regular 	 reporting 	 about 	
our	progress 	 and	 approach 	 in	 relation 	 to	
climate 	 risk,	 as	 we	 believe 	 transparently 	
sharing 	 our	 journey 	 is	 an	 important 	
contribution 	 we	 can	 make 	 both 	 to	 the	
broader 	 industry 	 and	 to	 our	 clients. 	 Citi	
has	disclosed 	 climate-related 	 metrics 	 and	
targets 	f or 	o ur 	environmental 	fi nance 	
activities 	and	 our	operations 	for	well	 over	
a	decade, 	 and	 we	 released 	 our	 first	 Climate 	
Change 	 Position 	 Statement 	 in	 2007. 	 Since 	
then, 	o ur 	c ommitment 	t o 	t his 	i ssue 	h as	
only	 grown, 	 as	 evidenced 	 by	 our	 strategic 	
approach, 	a lignment 	w ith	g lobal 	st an-
dards 	 and	 the	 continued 	 evolution 	 of	 our	
Environmental 	a nd	So cial	R isk	M anagement 	
(ESRM) 	 Policy 	 in	 response 	 to	 the	 changing 	
risk	l andscape.First 	 established 	 in	 2003, 	 our	 ESRM 	 Policy 	
applies 	t o 	a ll	C iti	e ntities 	g lobally 	a nd 	
provides 	 a	 framework 	 for	 how	 we	 identify, 	
mitigate 	 and	 manage 	 the	 potential 	 risk	
to	Citi	 associated 	 with	 the	 environmental 	
and	social 	 risks 	 of	 our	 clients’ 	 activities. 	 It	
guides 	o ur 	fi nancing 	dec isions 	f or	c ompa -
nies	a nd 	p rojects 	w ithin	e nvironmentally 	
sensitive 	a nd/or 	h igh-carbon 	se ctors. 	It	a lso	
provides 	 us	 with	 opportunities 	 to	 advise 	
our	clients 	 on	 climate-related 	 risks. 	 To	 learn 	
more 	 about 	 our	 ESRM 	 Policy 	 and	 related 	
due	d iligence, 	s ee 	t he 	Environmental 	a nd 	
Social 	R isk 	M anagement 	s ection .
In	addition 	 to	 establishing 	 internal 	 poli-
cies	and	 practices, 	 we	 also	 align 	 with	
external 	s tandards 	t o	s trengthen 	o ur	
processes, 	r eporting 	a nd	e ngagement. 	We	h ave 	s upported 	t he	r ecommendations 	
of	t he 	Task	 Force 	 on	 Climate-related 	
Financial 	D isclosures 	(TCFD) 	 since 	 they	
were 	 released 	 in	 2017. 	 Our	 objective 	 is	 to	
understand 	 the	 potential 	 financial 	 risks 	
from 	 climate 	 change 	 to	 Citi,	 our	 clients 	
and	communities; 	 how	 Citi	 and	 our	 clients 	
may	b e 	c ontributing 	t o 	c limate 	c hange; 	a nd	
how	 we	 can	 help	 our	 clients 	 transition 	 to	 a	
low-carbon 	ec onomy.
Find	 out	 more 	 about 	 our	 implementation 	
of	t he 	T CFD 	r ecommendations 	i n 	o ur 	2021 	
TCFD 	R eport .	In	addition, 	 this	 ESG	 Report 	
includes 	a 	TCFD 	in dex 	indicating 	 where 	
climate-related 	 content 	 in	 response 	 to	 TCFD 	
recommendations 	can	b e	f ound 	t hroughout 	
this	report 	 and	 other 	 public 	 documentation.Our TCFD Report: Citi’s Approach 
to Climate Change and Net Zero
To find more detailed climate-related  
disclosures, see our 2021 Task Force on  
Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report: 
Citi’s Approach to Climate Change and Net Zero . 
The report discloses our work to implement the TCFD recommendations across the four pillars 
of Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets and includes our initial 
net zero plan for our Energy and Power loan 
portfolios.
PARTICIPATION IN NET ZERO FRAMEWORKS  
Citi is a member of multiple industry groups that enhance our understand ing 
of — and ability to act on — climate-related issues. These groups include the 
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), the Net-Zero Banking 
Alliance (NZBA) and the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ). Learn more about these in our 2021 TCFD Report .Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
37
Our Net Zero 
Commitment
In	2 021, 	w e 	an nounced 	ou r	c ommitment 	
to	n et 	z ero 	g reenhouse 	g as 	( GHG) 	
emissions 	b y 	2 050, 	i n 	a lignment 	w ith	
the	o bjectives 	o f 	t he 	P aris 	A greement 	
and	p revailing 	c limate 	sc ience. 	R educing 	
Scope 	3 	fi nanced 	e missions1	is	widely 	
recognized 	a s 	t he 	m ost 	s ignificant 	
contribution 	t he	fi nancial 	i ndustry 	c an	
have 	t o 	a chieving 	a 	l ow-carbon 	e conomy. 	
Our	c ommitment 	w ill	in clude 	in terim 	
financed 	e missions 	r eduction 	t argets 	f or	
carbon-intensive 	se ctors, 	as	d escribed 	b y	
the	U N 	E nvironment 	P rogramme 	F inance 	
Initiative 	( UNEP 	F I) 	G uidelines 	f or 	C limate 	
Target 	S etting 	f or 	B anks. 	T o 	d ate, 	w e 	h ave	
set	2030 	e missions 	t argets 	for	our	 Energy 	
and	P ower 	l oan 	p ortfolios. 	
For	our	own	operations, 	we	are	targeting 	
net	zero	GHG	emissions 	by	2030, 	which 	
builds 	on	our	environmental 	footprint 	
goals 	and	the	100% 	renewable 	electricity 	
goal	that	we	achieved 	in	2020. 	(Learn 	
more 	in	the	Sustainable 	Operations 	
section .)
The	approach 	and	activities 	related 	to	our	
net	zero	commitment 	are	distinct 	from 	our	
management 	of	climate 	risk	for	our	firm. 	
While 	our	net	zero	commitment 	is	keenly 	
focused 	on	Citi’s 	impacts 	on	the	climate 	
and	reducing 	GHG	emissions 	to	net	zero	
across 	our	value 	chain, 	our	climate 	risk	
management 	efforts 	are	focused 	on	Citi’s 	
safety 	and	soundness, 	and	thus	on	the	
integration 	of	climate 	risk	into	our	risk	
management 	governance, 	processes 	and	
strategies. 	Although 	these 	two	priorities 	
differ 	in	their 	primary 	focus, 	they	are	
related 	to	and	reinforce 	each 	other, 	leading 	
to	mutual 	benefits. 	As	we	execute 	on	our	net	zero	commitment, 	the	resulting 	
reduction 	in	financed 	emissions 	will	help	to	
reduce 	our	climate 	transition 	risk.		
Citi’s 	net	zero	ambition 	builds 	on	our	
commitment 	to	the	UNEP 	FI	Principles 	for	
Responsible 	B anking ,	our	leadership 	in	
climate 	disclosure 	in	alignment 	with	the	
TCFD 	and	our	ESRM 	Policy 	—	specifically 	
our	Sector 	Approaches 	related 	to	fossil 	
fuels. 	Transparency 	and	accountability 	are	
keys	to	success, 	and	we	will	report 	annu -
ally	on	our	net	zero	progress. 	
Our	commitment 	to	net	zero	is	significant, 	
given 	the	size	and	breadth 	of	our	
portfolios 	and	businesses. 	To	achieve 	it,	
we	must 	meet 	our	clients 	where 	they	are	
in	their 	sustainability 	journeys 	and	help	
accelerate 	their 	progress 	in	this	area. 	We	
will	work 	with	all	our	clients, 	including 	our	
fossil 	fuel	clients, 	to	develop 	credible 	plans 	
that	include 	the	responsible 	retirement 	of	
carbon-intensive 	assets 	as	we	transition 	
to	net	zero	together. 	We	will	prioritize 	
partnering 	with	clients 	on	transition 	
strategies, 	and	exiting 	client 	relationships 	
is	a	last	resort. 	
Banks 	a re 	f acing 	g rowing 	p ressure 	t o	
divest 	f rom 	f ossil 	fu els. 	I n 	s ome 	i nstances, 	
such 	a s 	thermal 	c oal 	m ining ,	w here 	t here 	
is	c redit 	r isk 	f rom 	s tranded 	a ssets 	i n	
addition 	t o 	c limate 	r isk, 	w e 	h ave 	a lready 	
established 	a 	t ransparent 	t ime 	f rame 	f or	
our	t ransition 	e xpectations. 	H owever, 	
we	a re 	c ognizant 	t hat 	l arge-scale, 	r apid	
divestment 	c ould 	r esult 	i n 	a n 	a brupt 	a nd	
disorderly 	t ransition 	t o 	a 	l ow-carbon 	
economy, 	c reating 	b oth	ec onomic 	a nd	
social 	u pheaval 	o n 	a 	g lobal 	s cale. 	F or	
example, 	c ertain 	c arbon-intensive 	c ompa -
nies	m ay 	p lay 	c ritical 	r oles 	i n 	c hanneling 	
the	n ecessary 	cap ital	e xpenditures 	an d	
providing 	t he 	r aw 	m aterials 	t o 	su pport 	new	c limate 	t echnologies 	o r 	m ay 	p rovide 	
necessary 	ba seload 	p ower 	f or	de veloping 	
countries. 	
An	orderly, 	responsible 	and	equitable 	
transition, 	which 	accounts 	for	the	imme -
diate 	economic 	needs 	of	communities 	and	
workers 	as	well	as	environmental 	justice 	
and	broader 	economic 	development 	
concerns, 	is	essential 	to	retaining 	polit-
ical	and	social 	support 	for	the	shift	to	a	
low-carbon 	economy. 	Under 	the	goals 	of	
our	net	zero	plan, 	we	seek 	to	balance 	these 	
needs 	to	facilitate 	this	complex 	transition. 	
Initial Net Zero Plan
We	released 	our	initial 	net	zero	plans 	for	
our	Energy 	and	Power 	loan	portfolios 	in	
our	2021 	TCFD 	Report .	The	plans 	for	these 	
portfolios 	build 	upon 	the	calculation 	of	
our	financed 	emissions 	and	the	setting 	of	
interim 	2030 	emissions 	reduction 	targets 	
for	these 	sectors. 	Our	net	zero	plan	
incorporates 	a	twofold 	approach: 	assess -
ment 	of	our	clients’ 	climate 	profiles 	and	
engagement 	to	understand 	their 	transition 	
opportunities. 	Additionally, 	we	will	employ 	
a	number 	of	tools, 	phased 	in	over	time, 	
to	help	move 	these 	portfolios 	toward 	our	
2030 	targets. 	Underlying 	the	implementa -
tion	of	this	plan	is	Citi’s 	continued 	effort 	to	
expand 	our	climate-related 	resources 	and	
engage 	directly 	with	our	clients.
1.	Financed 	emissions 	are	the	GHG 	emissions 	generated 	by	the	operations 	and	entities 	that	financial 	institutions 	lend	money 	to	or	invest 	in.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
38
Considerations for Loan Portfolio Assessments
Energy and Power Sectors 
GHG Emissions Public Disclosure
Review public disclosures such as sustainability reports 
or submissions to the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire and supplement with direct engagement with clients
GHG Emissions Reduction Targets
Review public statements on net zero/decarbonization commitments or alignment with external initiatives such as the Science Based Targets initiative. For the Energy sector, assess targets for GHGs such as methane
Decarbonization/Transition Plan
Understand clients’ climate transition plans. Determine  the tools that clients will employ, including capital  allocation, product diversification and linkages to  executive compensationClimate Risk Scoring
Harness public discourse and statements and third-party data as well as our ongoing client engagement, to develop an internal assessment for both transition and physical risk
Client Asset Evaluation
Where available, review asset-level data for further  assessments of climate risk and emissions intensity;  this is particularly applicable to project finance
External Climate Scores
Reference third-party ratings systems for additional data on climate-related performance
Other Data
Consider the social elements of transition, including  human rights risks, access to energy for developing  countries, livelihoods of communities and workers in  these sectors and the relevant regulatory environment Scopes 1 & 2 (absolute emissions & physical intensity)
Scope 3
Baseline year
Status of data verification
Net zero commitment or science-based targets
GHG emissions reduction targets
Methane reduction targets
Flaring reduction/phase-out targets
Scope 1 decarbonization plan
Scope 2 decarbonization plan
Evolution of energy sources
Product diversification and Scope 3 reduction
Capital allocation
Governance — accountability, compensation linksTransition risk assessment
Physical risk assessment
Existing generation assets (carbon intensity analysis)
Existing reserves and assets
Comparative economics of production
Carbon-intensive asset retirement schedule
Resilience risks
PACTA Score
CA 100+ Score
World Benchmarking Alliance
Carbon Tracker Initiative
Transition Pathways Initiative
Sustainable development factors
Country/regional regulatory environmentThe first step of our net zero plan involves engagement, client by client, to understand 
each client’s GHG emissions disclosure and their perspective and plans for transition. Additionally, we will review public disclosures, climate governance and the commit -
ments and actions they have taken to date. We anticipate that this initial review phase will continue through the end of 2023. In the following table, we highlight some of the key considerations that will frame client engagement.APPLICABLE TO BOTH SECTORS
POWER SECTOR ONLY
ENERGY SECTOR ONLYContents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
39
While 	our	transition 	plans 	for	each 	loan	portfolio 	will	be	based 	on	a	rigorous 	net	zero	methodology, 	we	are	still	in	the	early 	stages 	
of	plotting 	our	net	zero	journey. 	We	expect 	to	modify 	our	transition 	plans 	and	targets 	as	both 	the	availability 	and	quality 	of	data	
improve 	and	as	climate 	scenarios 	are	updated. 	We	also	recognize 	that	there 	will	be	uneven 	year-on-year 	progress 	toward 	our	2030 	
targets, 	because 	clients 	and	sectors 	differ 	in	their 	capacity 	to	transition 	and	in	the	time	frames 	in	which 	their 	carbon 	reduction 	
investments 	will	be	realized.Achieving Our Targets
 
We will use a variety of approaches, many of which will run concurrently, to reach our financed emissions reduction 
targets for our Energy and Power loan portfolios. For further detail on these five areas of activity, refer to our 2021  
TCFD Report .
Client Transition Assessment, Advisory and Finance
 •Client engagement and assessment
 •Transition advisory and finance, including debt and equity underwriting and lending
 •Support existing and new clean technologies to accelerate commercialization
 •Support enabling public policy and regulation in the United States and other countries, including through trade associations and other industry groups
 •Dimension climate risk exposure across our lending portfolios and review client carbon reduction progress
 •Ongoing review and refinement of ESRM Policy
 •Active portfolio management to align with net zero targets, including considerations of transition measures taken by clientsClean Tech Finance
Public Policy Engagement
Risk Management
Portfolio ManagementContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
40
The	PCAF 	methodology 	is	primarily 	focused 	on	reporting 	financed 	emissions 	on	an	annual 	basis 	and	relies 	on	data	of	funds 	outstand -
ing,	not	the	total 	funds 	that	a	financial 	institution 	may	have 	committed 	to	the	client 	in	the	reporting 	year. 	While 	we	intend 	to	continue 	
disclosing 	per	the	PCAF 	requirements 	to	provide 	this	annual 	view	of	financed 	emissions 	associated 	with	our	activities, 	we	are	using 	
“committed 	funds” 	data	to	more 	holistically 	attribute 	our	clients’ 	emissions 	for	the	baseline 	financed 	emissions 	figures 	in	our	net	zero	
plan. 	Consequently, 	we	undertook 	an	additional 	analysis 	of	our	Energy 	and	Power 	loan	portfolios 	using 	total 	committed 	funds 	to	calcu -
late	baseline 	emissions 	from 	2020 	and	establish 	2030 	emission 	targets. 	The	use	of	committed 	funds 	in	this	context 	provides 	a	more 	
accurate 	reflection 	of	the	maximum 	emissions-generating 	activity 	that	Citi	has	agreed 	to	finance 	and	is	therefore 	better 	suited 	for	the	
purposes 	of	forward-looking 	emissions 	management 	and	target 	setting. 	This	approach 	results 	in	discrepancies 	between 	the	metrics 	we	
report 	for	PCAF 	and	for	our	net	zero	targets, 	but	we	believe 	the	committed 	funds 	approach 	is	better 	aligned 	with	the	way	we	expect 	to	
manage 	our	net	zero	targets. 	*	mt	CO2e	=	metric 	tons	of	carbon 	dioxide 	equivalent.
**	Omission 	of	Scope 	3	emissions 	for	Power 	is	explained 	in	the	“Scope 	3	Calculation 	Methodology” 	in	Appendix 	A	(page 	71)	of	our	2021 	TCFD 	Report .				
***	Scope 	3,	Category 	11:	Use	of	Sold	Product, 	for	extractive 	and	refining 	sectors.
*	Omission 	of	Scope 	3	emissions 	for	Power 	is	explained 	in	the	“Scope 	3	Calculation 	Methodology” 	in	Appendix 	A	(page 	71)	of	our	2021 	TCFD 	Report .				FPO TABLEScope Power Energy
Scope 1 4,261,747 17,308,063
Scope 2 164,059 518,594
Scope 3 N/A**40,113,950***
Total 4,425,806 57,940,607
Scope Power Energy
Scope 1 11,464,654 33,847,434
Scope 2 485,784 1,434,241
Scope 3 N/A*108,478,743
Total 11,950,438 143,760,4182020 ABSOLUTE FINANCED EMISSIONS: OUTSTANDING EXPOSURE (MT CO2E*)
2020 ABSOLUTE FINANCED EMISSIONS: COMMITTED EXPOSURE (MT CO2E)
To	reach 	net	zero, 	we	must 	move 	from 	our	baseline 	across 	a	decarbonization 	pathway 	to	our	ultimate 	net	zero	target. 	Establishing 	2030 	
targets 	are	the	first	step	in	that	journey. 	The	next	step	is	to	develop 	an	implementation 	plan	to	achieve 	targeted 	reductions 	in	each 	
relevant 	sector. 	We	are	evaluating 	a	number 	of	strategies 	and	tools 	to	drive 	towards 	the	established 	goals, 	though 	they	may	not	all	be	
applicable 	for	every 	sector 	or	client. 	Some 	of	the	emissions 	reduction 	approaches 	and	potential 	future 	tools 	include 	client 	engagement, 	
capital 	allocation 	strategy 	and	portfolio 	management 	tools. 	
The	table 	on	the	following 	page 	summarizes 	our	current 	2030 	emission 	targets 	for	Citi’s 	Energy 	and	Power 	portfolios. 	These 	interim 	
2030 	targets 	are	a	key	component 	of	our	net	zero	plan	for	emissions 	in	our	client 	portfolio. 	Energy and Power Baseline Emissions and Interim Targets
During 	2021, 	we	used 	the	PCAF 	methodology 	to	conduct 	an	analysis 	of	our	Energy 	and	Power 	portfolios 	using 	2020 	data. 	In	alignment 	
with	PCAF 	requirements, 	this	analysis 	is	based 	on	funds 	outstanding 	(drawn 	and	not	yet	repaid) 	by	clients 	during 	the	year	to	provide 	a	
view	of	financed 	emissions 	associated 	with	our	activities 	during 	that	year.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
41
*	International 	Energy 	Agency 	scenarios.
**	Only 	includes 	power 	generation 	clients. 	Clients 	primarily 	in	the	transmission 	and	distribution 	value 	chain 	were 	excluded.
***	The	emissions 	intensity 	from 	the	IEA	SDS	OECD 	scenario 	is	derived 	by	dividing 	the	CO2e	emissions 	resulting 	from 	the	Power 	sector 	with	the	electricity 	generation 	at	2030.
Note: 	These 	targets 	are	based 	on	available 	data 	as	of	September 	2021. 	Updates 	to	improve 	data 	quality 	of	the	baseline 	numbers 	may	result 	in	changes 	to	these 	targets.Sector Scenario 2020 Baseline 2030 Targets
Energy
(Scope 1, 2, 3)Net Zero Emissions by 
2050 (NZE 2050)*143.8  million mt CO2e 29% reduction from 2020 
baseline
102.1 million mt CO2e
Power**
(Scope 1)Sustainable  
Development Scenario (SDS 2020)
*313.5  kg CO2e/MWh 63% reduction in Scope 1 
intensity per MWh
115 kg CO2e/MWh***
More 	i nformation 	a bout 	t he 	a nalysis 	w e	
conducted 	t o	e stablish 	t hese 	t argets, 	i nclud -
ing	scenario 	 selection 	 and	 the	 scope 	 and	
boundaries 	 of	 the	 targets, 	 is	 available 	 in	 our	
2021 	 TCFD 	 Report .	I n	fu ture 	y ears, 	w e 	w ill	
conduct 	fu rther 	a nalysis 	t o 	f acilitate 	t arget 	
setting 	 for	 additional 	 sectors. 	 In	 2022, 	 we	
plan	 to	 focus 	 on	 the	 Auto 	 Manufacturing, 	
Steel, 	T hermal 	C oal	M ining 	a nd	C ommercial 	
Real	E state 	s ectors 	f or 	c ore 	a nalysis 	a nd	
target 	 setting, 	 in	 alignment 	 with	 the	 NZBA 	
guidelines. 	W e 	w ill 	c onsider 	t he 	r emaining 	
sectors, 	in cluding 	A luminum, 	A viation, 	
Cement 	a nd 	A gricultural 	su bsectors 	i n 	2 023	
and	2024. 	
Citi’s Approach to 
Managing Climate Risk
Citi’s 	R isk 	M anagement 	fu nction 	i s 	
respon sible 	f or 	i dentifying, 	m easuring, 	
managing, 	c ontrolling 	a nd 	r eporting 	r isks 	
to	t he 	c ompany. 	W e 	i dentify 	c limate 	r isk 	
as	a n 	“ emerging 	r isk” 	i n 	C iti’s 	E nterprise 	
Risk	M anagement 	F ramework. 	W ithin 	t he 	
framework, 	e merging 	r isks 	a re 	t hose 	t hat 	
are	n ew 	o r 	r apidly 	c hanging, 	w ith 	h igh 	
growth 	p otential, 	a nd 	a re 	c haracterized 	b y 	
data	u navailability 	o r 	o ther 	u ncertainties. 	
We	d o 	n ot 	v iew 	c limate 	r isk 	a s 	a 	s tand-alone 	
risk	c ategory 	b ut 	a s 	a 	t ransversal 	r isk, 	
capable 	o f 	m anifesting 	a cross 	e ach 	o f 	C iti’s 	
seven 	r isk 	c ategories 	i n 	o ur 	r isk 	t axonomy: 	Credit, 	M arket, 	L iquidity, 	S trategic, 	
Operational, 	C ompliance 	a nd 	R eputation. 	
Climate 	i mpacts 	m ay 	b e 	e ither 	p hysical- 	o r 	
transition-related 	a nd 	m ay 	v ary 	d epending 	
on	t he 	t ime 	h orizon. 	
During 	 2021, 	 we	 strengthened 	 our	 gover -
nance 	 and	 deepened 	 our	 expertise 	 to	
advance 	 effective 	 management 	 of	 climate 	
risks 	 and	 opportunities. 	 Highlights 	 include 	
the	f ollowing: 	
	•Formation 	 of	 a	 new	 Global 	 ESG	 Council, 	
consisting 	o f 	s enior 	m embers 	o f 	m anage -
ment, 	 with	 the	 aim	 of	 providing 	 enhanced 	
oversight 	o f 	o ur 	E SG 	a ctivities 	a nd 	g oals	
	•Creation 	o f 	t he 	N atural 	R esources 	&	
Clean 	E nergy 	T ransition 	t eam 	t o 	i nte-
grate 	o ur 	E nergy, 	P ower 	a nd 	C hemicals 	
businesses, 	i n 	o rder 	t o 	a ssist 	o ur 	c lients 	
across 	t hese 	s ectors 	a s 	t hey 	t ransition
	•Growth 	 of	 our	 dedicated 	 Climate 	 Risk	
team, 	w ith 	a n 	e mphasis 	o n 	e xpertise 	
in	c redit 	r isk, 	s cenario 	a nalysis, 	s tress 	
testing 	a nd 	r egulatory 	e ngagement 	
	•Establishment 	 of	 a	 Net	 Zero 	 Task	 Force 	 to	
support 	t he 	d evelopment 	a nd 	l aunch 	o f	
our	net	 zero	 plan
Regulatory Compliance
Interest 	in	climate 	risk	management 	from 	
regulators 	continues 	to	grow 	globally. 	
We	are	monitoring 	and	responding 	to	emerging 	regulatory 	obligations 	and	
engaging 	with	regulators 	around 	the	world 	
about 	climate 	risk	issues, 	especially 	related 	
to	risk	management, 	strategy 	and	scenario 	
analysis 	r equirements. 	
As	w e 	a nticipate 	a n	in crease 	in	r egulatory 	
requirements, 	v oluntary 	f rameworks 	a nd	
mandated 	p roduct 	c lassifications, 	w e 	a re	
strengthening 	o ur	i nternal 	r egulatory 	t eams 	
with	su bject 	m atter 	e xperts. 	W e 	a re 	a lso	
improving 	o ur 	a ccess 	t o 	r elevant, 	a ccurate 	
data	 to	 sharpen 	 our	 scenario 	 analyses 	 and	
building 	a	s tandardized, 	gl obal	c limate 	
disclosure 	s trategy 	t hat 	c an 	m onitor 	a nd	
manage 	r equirements 	a nd 	p rovide 	c onsis -
tent	r eporting 	a cross 	o ur 	o perations. 	Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
42
Global ESG
Council
Climate Risk  
Steering 
GroupClimate 
Risk Working 
GroupNet Zero  
Task ForceGlobal  
Sustainability  
Steering 
CommitteeClimate Change Governance 
Board of Directors
Steering 
GroupsEXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM
Management and  Specialized FunctionsNomination, Governance and  
Public Affairs CommitteeRisk Management Committee
CEO
Sustainability 
& ESG  
TeamChief  
Sustainability 
OfficerHead of 
Climate  
RiskHead of  
Environmental  
& Social Risk  
Management
(ESRM)Banking, Capital Markets  
and Advisory (BCMA)Global 
Markets
Climate  
Risk
TeamESRM
TeamSustainability  
& Corporate  
Transitions 
TeamNatural  
Resources & 
Clean Energy 
Transition  
TeamSustainable 
Debt Capital 
Markets  
TeamMarkets  
ESG  
TeamGLOBAL PUBLIC 
AFFAIRS INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS GROUP INDEPENDENT RISK MANAGEMENTGlobal Head of  
Public AffairsChief Risk OfficerCEO of Institutional  
Clients GroupThe following climate change governance diagram illustrates our governance structure as of April 2022. For more 
about Citi’s governance related to climate risk, see our 2021 TCFD Report .Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
43
EMPLOYEE TRAINING IN CLIMATE RISK 
We are working to create a culture of sustainability across our company and raise our colleagues’ literacy related to 
climate risk. In 2021, we created a new training module that covers key climate risk concepts, including the definition of 
climate risk, emerging climate risk standards, supervisory expectations, an overview of Citi’s efforts in this area and our 
initiatives to enhance climate risk management. Our previous climate risk trainings were customized for specific groups of employees to raise awareness about particular climate-related topics. This new module is our first training for climate 
that allows us to provide consistent instruction for a broader audience and further support the integration of climate risk 
considerations into our risk management processes.
Climate Risk in Our Maritime Shipping Portfolio
The Poseidon Principles , released in 2019, provide a framework for lenders, lessors and financial guarantors to integrate climate 
considerations into lending decisions with international shipping clients, to help the sector decarbonize in line with the goals 
of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). Citi was a founding signatory and also chairs the Steering Committee of the 
Poseidon Principles Association, the governing body of the Poseidon Principles.
As a part of our commitment, we provide yearly disclosures, which are published alongside those of other signatories in an annual 
report  published on the Poseidon Principles website. Our most recent disclosure reflects updated data from the IMO’s Fourth GHG 
Study, published in 2020, as well as an improved methodology for estimating carbon emissions and carbon intensity for a variety of vessel types and sizes, resulting in a more accurate representation of vessel emissions and the emissions reduction targets 
needed for the world’s shipping fleet. 
Our reported alignment score this year (+11.7%) is notably further out of alignment compared with our reported score of last year 
(+6%). This change in alignment is due to a combination of factors, including the improved accuracy of the new methodology, 
as well as significant disruptions in shipping related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The disruptions were most notable in the Cruise segment, which saw dramatic decreases in efficiency (and therefore our alignment scores) driven by reduced cruising activity 
globally. This was however offset by the improvements in the accuracy of the methodology, resulting in an alignment score of 
+1.1% for the Cargo segment of Citi’s Shipping portfolio only (excluding the Cruise segment). Further changes to the methodology may occur as data and industry practices evolve, and new IMO regulations come into effect.
To further advance progress in the maritime shipping industry, we are a member of the Getting to Zero Coalition, which is focused 
on the development of commercially viable, zero-emission vessels and other needed maritime infrastructure for scalable net 
zero-carbon energy sources, including production, distribution, storage and bunkering. The coalition was founded by the Global 
Maritime Forum, Friends of Ocean Action and the World Economic Forum. It has more than 190 member companies and nine knowledge partners and is supported by key intergovernmental organizations and governments.Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
44
Reducing Climate  
Risk in Our Financing 
Climate 	risk	is	one	of	the	three 	pillars 	of	
our	Sustainable 	Progress 	Strategy .	When 	
it	comes 	to	analyzing 	and	reducing 	climate 	
risk	associated 	with	our	clients, 	we	have 	
identified 	the	following 	three 	primary 	
focus 	areas:
	•Policy 	development
	•Portfolio 	analysis 	and	measurement
	•Engagement
Policy Development
As	part	of	our	work 	to	integrate 	climate 	
risk	into	Citi’s 	risk	policies 	and	governance 	
frameworks, 	we	have 	updated 	our	ESRM 	
Policy 	Sector 	Approaches 	for	carbon-
intensive 	sectors 	to	incorporate 	emerging 	
best	practices. 	One	area	where 	we	have 	
made 	significant 	progress 	is	in	our	fossil 	
fuel	Sector 	Approaches 	for	thermal 	coal	
mining 	and	the	generation 	of	coal-fired 	
power, 	which 	predated 	our	net	zero	
commitment. 	See	the	box	on	the	right 	for	
more 	details 	on	our	targets 	and	policy.
Portfolio Analysis  
and Measurement
Citi	aims 	to	understand 	the	transition 	and	
physical 	risks 	that	Citi	and	our	clients 	are	
exposed 	to	by	conducting 	climate 	scenario 	
analysis, 	measuring 	the	GHG	emissions 	
associated 	with	our	financing 	portfolio 	
and	evaluating 	portfolio 	decarbonization 	
pathways. 	During 	2021, 	we	conducted 	an	
analysis 	of	our	Energy 	and	Power 	loan	
portfolios 	to	establish 	baseline 	emissions 	
and	establish 	interim 	2030 	emissions 	
targets 	as	we	work 	toward 	our	net	zero	
commitment. 	Learn 	more 	about 	this	
analysis 	and	our	targets 	in	the	Energy 	
and	Power 	Baseline 	Emissions 	and	Interim 	
Targets 	s ection .	Our Commitment to Reduce Financing for Coal 
Thermal Coal Mining  
Our ESRM Policy commitments related to coal mining began in 2009, with our first coal 
mining Sector Approach. Since that time, we have updated our policy, including updates focused on enhanced due diligence and continued reductions in our credit exposure to the coal mining industry. As of 2020, Citi has established a policy prohibition on project-related financing of new thermal coal mines and significant expansions. We have also committed to the following targets to reduce our exposure to companies that derive 25% or more of their revenue from thermal coal mining:
• By the end of 2025: Reduce our credit exposure to these companies by 50% from  a 2020 baseline 
• After 2025: No longer facilitate capital markets transactions or mergers and acquisition advisory and financing for these companies
• By the end of 2030: Reduce all remaining exposure to these companies to zero
 Coal-Fired Power Generation  
Our ESRM Policy commitments related to coal-fired power generation have also been updated over time as the credit and reputation risk related to coal has increased. We have committed to not finance any new coal-fired power plants or expansions of existing plants. Our expectations have increased as we aim to help our clients transition to a future aligned with the Paris Agreement. A comprehensive summary of time-bound milestones for coal-fired power clients through 2040 is available in our Environmental and Social Policy Framework .
In 2021, we reviewed our coal-fired power clients’ GHG reporting and low-carbon transition plans, including commitments to retire existing coal plants. Our analysis considered a combination of client disclosures, third-party ESG analysis, CDP disclosures and direct client engagement. Moving forward, this evaluation will be wrapped into our net zero engagement and progress towards our 2030 targets.
*	This	figure 	has	been 	updated 	as	one	metallurgical 	coal	company 	was	erroneously 	included 	in	the	baseline
reported 	in	our	2020 	ESG	report.2020 baseline* 
$1.091BCredit exposure as  
of Dec. 31, 2021 
$759M 
(30% reduction from baseline)
Risk Exposure
During 	2021, 	we	updated 	our	climate 	risk	
heat-mapping 	framework 	to	refine 	our	
understanding 	of	the	sectors 	we	finance 	
that	are	most 	sensitive 	to	climate 	risk.	
The	heat	map	on	the	following 	pages 	is	
based 	on	a	qualitative 	assessment 	of	how	transition 	and	physical 	climate 	risk	drivers 	
are	expected 	to	impact 	different 	sectors. 	
The	results 	of	this	assessment 	will	help	
us	to	prioritize 	portfolios 	when 	further 	
evaluating 	risks. 		Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
45
Climate Risk Heat-Mapping Framework:
Vulnerability Rubric
1 2 3 4
Transition 
RisksRegulatory No regulatory/policy changes are expected to meaningfully impact the sector financially such as through asset devaluation, increased expenditure (e.g., compliance costs) and/or loss of revenueMinor impact to the sector expected from potential regulatory/policy changes (e.g., building efficiency) resulting in financial impact asset devaluation, increased expenditure (e.g., compliance costs) or loss of revenue; impact only on a subset of the sector, subset of geographies and/or only indirect impactModerate impact to the sector expected from regulatory/policy changes (e.g., carbon taxes) relating to the sector’s carbon intensity; direct impact with noticeable economic implications on the sector through impacted asset valuation, increased expenditure (e.g., compliance costs) and/or revenue lossMajor impact to the sector expected due to expected regulatory/ policy changes relating to the sector’s carbon intensity; significant shift expected in the business model or economics of the sector impacting asset valuation, expenditures (e.g., increased compliance costs) and/or revenue
Technology Outside of general modernization of tech -
nology, no technology shifts are expected for the sectorMinor impact to the sector expected from technology changes (i.e., impact only on a small subset of the sector, or only indirect impact through supply chain) that result in market share lossModerate impact to the sector expected from technology changes, resulting in some shift in the economics of some companies in the sector leading to market share lossMajor impact to the sector expected from technology changes, resulting in substitution of a significant portion of existing companies (i.e., market share loss)
Stakeholder There is no expectation of stakeholder composition or preferences changing for the industryMinor stakeholder impact due to expected shift in preferences, with minor financial impact on companies (e.g., revenue, vendor pricing)Moderate stakeholder impact is expected for the sector in terms of stakeholder preferences and composition, with modest financial impact (e.g., revenue, vendor pricing)Major stakeholder impact is expected in terms of both client preferenc -
es and composition of stakeholders, resulting in significant financial impact (e.g., revenue loss, vendor pricing)
Legal No increased litigation concerns are expected to impact the industry that would lead to increased financial burden (e.g., legal fees, settlements)Minor litigation concerns are expected to impact the sector, with minor financial consequences (e.g., legal fees, settlements)Moderate litigation concerns are expected to impact the sector, with modest financial impact (e.g., legal fees, 
settlements)Major litigation is expected to impact the sector, with significant financial impact (e.g., legal fees, settlements)
Physical  
RisksAcute 
HazardAcute physical 
hazards have no impact on the day-to-day operations of companies in the sectorSector would experience minor impact from acute physical hazards on operations (e.g., revenue loss due to business disruption), or minor damage to assets (e.g., asset devaluation)Sector would experience moderate and protracted impact from acute physical hazards on operations (e.g., revenue loss due to business disruption), or moderate damage to assets (e.g., asset devaluation)Sector would experience major and protracted im -
pact from acute physical hazards on operations (e.g., revenue loss due to business disruption),or significant damage to assets (e.g., asset devaluation)
Chronic 
HazardChronic physical 
hazards have no impact on the operations or valuation of assets/companies in the sectorChronic physical hazards have minor potential impact on the operations (e.g., increased insurance cost) or valuation of assets/companies in the sectorSector would experience moderate and sustained impact on the operations (e.g., increased insur -
ance cost) or valuation of assets/companies in the sectorSector would experience major and irreversible impact on the operations or valuation of assets/ companies in the sectorLOW VULNERABILITY SCORE HIGHOur	climate 	risk	heat	map	(included 	on	the	following 	pages) 	categorizes 	sectors 	under 	one	of	four	vulnerability 	scores, 	ranging 	from 	
low	to	high. 	We	have 	established 	subscores 	using 	the	rubric 	in	the	following 	table 	for	various 	aspects 	of	transition 	and	physical 	risks.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
46
A	comprehensive 	table 	of	our	credit 	exposures 	is	provided 	below, 	including 	a	breakdown 	of	identified 	sectors 	into	subsectors 	and,	
for	each, 	the	level 	of	risk	relating 	to	physical 	and	transition 	climate 	risk.	By	looking 	at	the	subsector 	level, 	we	can	further 	distinguish 	
between 	the	levels 	of	risk	within 	an	individual 	sector. 	It	is	important 	to	note	that	these 	risks 	are	not	expected 	to	manifest 	in	every 	sector 	
immediately. 	For	this	reason, 	the	table 	on	this	page 	and	the	next	should 	not	be	interpreted 	as	imminent 	risks 	to	existing 	exposures, 	but	
rather, 	exposures 	we	are	proactively 	identifying 	to	focus 	on,	where 	we	will	work 	methodically 	in	the	coming 	years 	to	better 	understand, 	
analyze 	and	manage 	our	climate 	risk	exposures 	in	these 	sectors.
2020 Climate Risk*
$ in MillionsTotal $  
Exposure% of Total 
ExposureFunded% of Funded 
ExposureTransition 
RiskPhysical  
Risk
Energy & Commodities**49,524 6.3% 15,086 4.4%
   Integrated Oil & Gas 13,332 1.7% 2,844 0.8% 4 2
   Oil & Gas Exploration & Production 13,316 1.7% 4,380 1.3% 4 2
   Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation 7,169 0.9% 1,808 0.5% 4 2
   Oil & Gas Refining & Marketing 6,976 0.9% 2,632 0.8% 4 2
   Oil & Gas Equipment, Services & Drilling 4,914 0.6% 1,082 0.3% 4 2
   Other   3,816 0.5% 2,340 0.7% 4 2
Power 26,916 3.4% 6,379 1.9%
   Alternative Energy 2,011 0.3% 1,015 0.3% 1 2
   Electric Utilities 6,430 0.8% 2,373 0.7% 3 3
   Gas Utilities 1,497 0.2% 571 0.2% 3 2
   Independent Power Producers & Service Operators 2,449 0.3% 591 0.2% 3 3
   Multi-Utilities 12,117 1.5% 1,343 0.4% 3 3
   Water Utilities 986 0.1% 134 0.0% 2 3
   Other 1,426 0.2% 353 0.1% 3 3
Transportation 81,567 10.4% 39,417 11.4%
  Autos 53,874 6.9% 25,310 7.3% 4 1
      Automobile Manufacturers 16,939 2.2% 6,690 1.9% 4 1
      Auto Parts & Equipment 10,476 1.3% 4,298 1.2% 4 1
      Auto-Related Financing, Leasing & Rentals 23,836 3.0% 12,811 3.7% 3 1
      Other 2,623 0.3% 1,511 0.4% 4 1
   Aviation 10,257 1.3% 5,033 1.5% 3 3
   Shipping & Maritime Logistics 9,979 1.3% 6,785 2.0% 3 2
   Logistics 7,457 1.0% 2,289 0.7% 3 3
      Air Freight & Logistics 1,139 0.1% 329 0.1% 3 3
      Rail 1,395 0.2% 273 0.1% 1 2
      Trucking 716 0.1% 427 0.1% 3 1
      Other***4,208 0.5% 1,260 0.4% 3 3
Industrials 65,651 8.4% 20,705 6.0%
   Building Products & Related 8,162 1.0% 2,453 0.7% 3 1
   Capital Goods 42,564 5.4% 12,615 3.7% 3 3
   Paper Forest Products & Packaging 7,113 0.9% 3,416 1.0% 3 1
   Professional Services 7,812 1.0% 2,220 0.6% 2 1Climate Risk Heat Map and Credit Exposure
LOW HIGH 1 2 3 4
*	Over 	medium 	to	long	term.
**	In	addition 	to	this	exposure, 	Citi	has	energy-related 	exposure 	within 	other 	sectors 	(for	example, 	mainly 	energy-related 	state-owned 	entities 	within 	the	public 	sector). 	Citi	total
exposure 	to	these 	energy-related 	sectors 	is	approximately 	$5.8 	billion, 	of	which 	approximately 	$3.3 	billion 	consisted 	of	direct 	outstanding 	funded 	loans, 	as	of	December 	31,	2020.
***	Includes 	Infrastructure, 	Logistics 	Not	Assigned 	and	Logistics 	Suppliers.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
47
2020 Climate Risk*
$ in MillionsTotal $  
Exposure% of Total 
ExposureFunded% of Funded 
ExposureTransition 
RiskPhysical  
Risk
Metals & Mining 14,654 1.9% 6,462 1.9%
   Coal†592 0.1% 144 0.0% 4 4
   Steel 3,526 0.4% 2,017 0.6% 3 2
   Aluminum 961 0.1% 710 0.2% 3 2
   Stainless Steel 153 0.0% 116 0.0% 3 2
   Nonferrous & Ferrous Minerals 2,492 0.3% 1,049 0.3% 3 2
   Other††6,931 0.8% 2,427 0.7% 3 2
Chemicals 22,356 2.8% 7,969 2.3% 3 2
Consumer Retail & Health 117,633 15.0% 43,467 12.6%
   Agricultural Products 6,723 0.9% 4,215 1.2% 3 3
   Beverages 8,889 1.1% 3,566 1.0% 1 3
   Food Products 14,373 1.8% 6,752 2.0% 3 2
   Tobacco 3,176 0.4% 717 0.2% 1 3
   Healthcare Equipment & Services 35,504 4.5% 8,658 2.5% 1 1
   Household & Personal Products 9,167 1.2% 3,617 1.1% 2 2
   Retail 20,577 2.6% 7,662 2.2% 2 1
   Hotels, Restaurants & Leisure 4,951 0.6% 1,997 0.6% 1 2
   Other 14,273 1.8% 6,283 1.8% 3 3
Real Estate 65,392 8.3% 43,285 12.6%
   Commercial Real Estate 46,232 5.9% 30,070 8.7% 2 3
   Residential Real Estate 19,160 2.4% 13,216 3.8% 2 3
Financial Institutions†††86,257 11.0% 35,006 10.2% 3 2
Insurance 26,576 3.4% 1,925 0.6%
   Life Insurance 4,923 0.6% 659 0.2% 1 1
   Property & Casualty Insurance 13,688 1.7% 1,110 0.3% 2 3
   Reinsurance 6,324 0.8% 66 0.0% 2 3
   Other 1,640 0.2% 91 0.0% 2 3
Private Bank 109,397 13.9% 75,693 22.0% 2 2
Public Sector‡26,887 3.4% 13,599 3.9% 3 3
Tech, Media & Telecom 82,657 10.5% 30,880 9.0%
   Media & Entertainment 13,119 1.7% 4,279 1.2% 1 1
   Hardware 23,547 3.0% 10,836 3.1% 2 2
   Software & Services 22,264 2.8% 5,647 1.6% 1 1
   Telecom 21,341 2.7% 8,616 2.5% 1 2
   Other 2,386 0.3% 1,503 0.4% 2 2
Other Industries 9,307 1.2% 4,545 1.3% 1 1
Total‡‡784,774 100.0% 344,417 100.0%
*	Over 	medium 	to	long	term.
†	Based 	on	Citi’s 	Risk	Industry 	Classification, 	which 	only	captures 	companies 	that	fully	identify 	as	coal	companies 	and	excludes 	diversified 	mining 	companies 	with	coal	mining. 	This
differs 	from 	how	Citi	defines 	thermal 	coal	mining 	companies 	under 	its	ESRM 	Policy 	(those 	that	derive 	>25% 	of	revenue 	from 	thermal 	coal	mining), 	which 	broadens 	the	scope 	of
companies 	covered 	under 	the	ESRM 	Policy.
††	Includes 	Coke, 	Diversified 	Metals 	&	Mining, 	Industrial 	Minerals, 	Energy 	Minerals, 	Gold, 	Metals 	&	Mining 	Not	Assigned, 	Metals 	&	Mining 	Related, 	and	Uranium.
†††	Includes 	Asset 	Managers 	and	Funds, 	Banks, 	Finance 	Companies, 	Financial 	Markets 	Infrastructure 	and	Securities 	Firms.
‡	Certain 	countries 	may	see	high	transition 	and	physical 	risks 	based 	on	commodities 	exposure 	and	geographic 	location.
‡‡	Sums 	may	not	match 	FY2020 	10-K	due	to	rounding 	from 	increased 	granularity 	in	industry 	breakdowns.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
48
Engagement 
Engagement 	with	our	stakeholders, 	clients 	
and	industry 	experts 	helps 	us	to	stay	
current 	i n 	o ur 	u nderstanding 	o f 	t his 	c ritical 	
and	evolving 	area	of	impact, 	to	strengthen 	
our	management 	and	analysis 	of	climate 	
risk	in	our	portfolio 	and	to	advance 	prog -
ress	in	this	area	across 	industries.
During 	2021, 	we	hosted 	a	stakeholder 	
engagement 	session, 	facilitated 	by	Ceres, 	
for	clients, 	investors 	and	nongovernmental 	
organizations. 	Participants 	provided 	
input 	on	Citi’s 	TCFD 	disclosures 	and	our	
approach 	to	setting 	net	zero	targets 	
and	measuring 	our	baseline 	emissions. 	
Feedback 	from 	that	session 	has	been 	integrated 	into	our	2021 	TCFD 	report 	and	
will	guide 	our	progress 	as	we	continue 	to	
develop 	our	net	zero	plan. 	See	our	2021 	
TCFD 	Report 	for	a	summary 	of	key	take-
aways 	from 	the	session. 	
To	advance 	progress, 	we	have 	worked 	with	
organizations 	such 	as	Rocky 	Mountain 	
Institute’s 	Center 	for	Climate-Aligned 	
Finance. 	The	Center 	works 	with	financial 	
institutions 	on	identifying 	1.5°C-aligned 	
emissions 	reduction 	pathways 	for	sectoral 	
portfolio 	measurement 	and	target-setting 	
and	developing 	credible 	institutional 	tran-
sition 	plans. 	In	addition, 	Citi	contributed 	
to	the	World 	Economic 	Forum’s 	Financing 
the Transition to a Net-Zero Future report .	
The	report 	reflects 	input 	from 	financial 	institutions 	and	the	public 	sector 	related 	
to	mobilizing 	investments 	in	breakthrough 	
technologies 	that	will	facilitate 	a	more 	
sustainable 	future. 	
Our	Sustainability 	&	Corporate 	Transitions 	
team 	and	Natural 	Resources 	&	Clean 	
Energy 	Transition 	team 	engage 	with	
our	clients 	to	pursue 	opportunities 	and	
support 	their 	efforts 	to	transition 	to	net	
zero. 	Learn 	more 	in	the	Financing 	the	
Low-Carbon 	Transition 	section .		
See	the	Stakeholder 	Engagement 	at	Citi	
section 	for	additional 	examples 	of	our	
engagement 	efforts 	in	2021.
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
49
Sustainable 	Operations
Citi has a history of prioritizing 
healthy buildings, along with 
two decades of measuring and 
reducing our environmental 
footprint. We are well-positioned 
to meet the dual challenges of 
climate change and COVID-19 
head on, as we enable sustainable 
operations and healthy facilities 
for our customers and employees.
Net Zero Commitment
Citi’s 	commitment 	to	achieve 	net	zero	
GHG	emissions 	by	2050 	includes 	both 	our	
financing 	and	our	own	operations. 	For	
our	operations, 	we	are	targeting 	net	zero	
emissions 	by	2030. 	This	includes 	GHG	
emissions 	related 	to	our	owned 	and	leased 	
facilities, 	employee 	commuting 	and	busi-
ness 	travel, 	and	emissions 	associated 	with	
our	supply 	chain. 		
During 	2021, 	we	undertook 	a	discovery 	and	
planning 	process 	to	develop 	a	strategy 	for	
reaching 	this	commitment. 	This	included 	
broad 	engagement 	with	employees 	from 	
our	Enterprise 	Operations 	&	Technology 	
group, 	and	analysis 	to	help	us	define 	the	
boundaries 	of	the	commitment, 	under -
stand 	the	potential 	challenges, 	and	identify 	
short-, 	medium- 	and	long-term 	priorities 	to	
help	us	reach 	our	goal. 	
With	t he 	a nnouncement 	o f 	o ur 	
commitment 	t o 	n et 	z ero 	G HG 	e missions, 	
we	b roadened 	o ur 	e ngagement 	w ith 	
employees 	a cross 	C iti, 	i ncluding 	t hose 	
working 	i n 	t he 	a reas 	o f 	r eal 	e state, 	
technology, 	su pply 	c hain, 	s hared 	s ervices, 	
travel 	a nd 	f acility 	o perations. 	O ur 	g oal 	w as 	
to	in crease 	u nderstanding 	a nd	c apabilities 	
across 	o ur 	o rganization, 	w hile 	a lso 	g aining 	
greater 	i nsight 	i nto 	t he 	fu ll 	s cope 	o f 	o ur 	GHG	e missions. 	E mployees 	i n 	t hese 	g roups 	
helped 	e valuate 	t heir 	o wn 	p rocesses 	
to	i dentify 	a nd 	m ap 	G HG 	e missions 	
throughout 	C iti. 	W e 	t hen 	e ngaged 	a 	t hird 	
party 	t o 	h elp 	u s 	q uantify 	t hose 	e missions. 	
This	e ngagement 	h as 	s et 	t he 	s tage 	f or 	
collaboration 	a s 	w e 	d rive 	t oward 	n et 	z ero 	
in	o ur 	o perations. 	
As	part	of	our	discovery 	process, 	we	
also	expanded 	our	GHG	inventory. 	We	
have 	been 	tracking 	Scope 	1,	Scope 	2	
and	a	portion 	of	Scope 	3	GHG	emissions 	
related 	to	our	own	operations 	for	many 	
years. 	However, 	this	was	the	first	time	
we	included 	broader 	Scope 	3	emissions 	
related 	to	our	supply 	chain, 	which 	is	inte-
gral	to	grasping 	the	total 	impact 	of	our	
operations. 	
Due	to	limitations 	in	data	availability 	
and	quality, 	we	used 	spend 	data	and	
industry 	emissions 	factors 	from 	the	US	
Environmentally-Extended 	I nput-Output 	
Models 	as	the	basis 	for	our	GHG	inventory. 	
While 	this	approach 	has	its	limitations, 	the	
insights 	we	have 	gleaned 	from 	this	analysis 	
are	nonetheless 	helping 	us	identify 	priority 	
areas 	that	warrant 	additional 	investigation 	
and	suppliers 	we	can	meaningfully 	engage 	
with	to	create 	the	greatest 	impact. 	As	
supplier-specific 	data	becomes 	available 	
and	methodologies 	improve, 	we	will	recalculate 	our	supply 	chain 	emissions. 	
The	GHG	inventory 	is	available 	in	our	2021 	
Task	Force 	on	Climate-related 	Financial 	
Disclosures 	(TCFD) 	report .
We	are	keenly 	aware 	that	a	balanced 	
approach 	will	be	needed 	to	drive 	emissions 	
reductions 	for	our	operations. 	This	might 	
include 	a	reduction 	in	our	consumption 	
of	supplier 	goods 	and	services, 	while 	also	
engaging 	with	suppliers 	to	drive 	process 	
improvements 	and	innovations. 	We	are	
also	working 	toward 	our	2025 	operational 	
footprint 	goals 	(see	following 	page), 	which 	
aim	to	reduce 	GHG	emissions 	and	energy 	
consumption 	for	our	operations. 	In	addi-
tion,	we	are	piloting 	zero-carbon 	b uilding 	
requirements 	for	all	new	Citi	buildings, 	
targeting 	emissions 	from 	operations 	as	
well	as	embodied 	emissions 	in	the	materi -
als	used 	to	construct 	the	buildings. 	
See	the	Climate 	Risk	and	Net	Zero 	section 	
for	an	overview 	of	our	commitment 	to	net	
zero	GHG	emissions, 	including 	as	it	relates 	
to	our	financing. 	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
50
Operational  
Footprint Goals
We	h ave 	b een 	m easuring 	o ur 	e nviron -
mental 	f ootprint 	f or 	t wo 	d ecades 	a nd 	
began 	r eporting 	o n 	o ur 	d irect 	o perational 	
impacts 	i n 	2 002. 	T his 	r eport 	m arks 	o ur 	
first	d isclosure 	o n 	p rogress 	a gainst 	o ur 	
fourth 	g eneration 	o f 	o perational 	f ootprint 	
goals, 	w hich 	w e 	a nnounced 	i n 	2 020 	a nd 	
aim	t o 	a chieve 	b y 	2 025. 	T hese 	g oals 	a re 	
aligned 	w ith 	a 	p athway 	t o 	l imit 	g lobal 	temperature 	r ise 	t o 	1 .5°C 	a nd 	c over 	G HG 	
emissions, 	e nergy 	u se, 	w ater 	c onsumption, 	
waste 	r eduction 	a nd 	d iversion, 	a nd 	su stain -
able	b uilding 	d esign. 	
Because 	o f 	t he 	o ngoing 	C OVID-19 	
pandemic, 	o ur 	f acilities 	w ere 	n ot 	u sed 	
at	fu ll 	c apacity 	i n 	2 021, 	a nd 	o ur 	r elated 	
resource 	c onsumption, 	w aste 	g eneration 	
and	G HG 	e missions 	w ere 	l ower 	t han 	t hey 	
otherwise 	w ould 	h ave 	b een. 	W e 	r ecognize 	
that	i n 	s ome 	c ases 	t hese 	i mpacts 	w ere 	simply 	m oved 	t o 	e mployees’ 	h omes 	a nd 	
other 	n on-Citi 	f acilities. 	A s 	a 	r esult 	o f 	
having 	f ewer 	p eople 	u sing 	C iti 	b uildings, 	
our	p rogress 	f or 	2 021 	i ndicates 	t hat 	w e 	
exceeded 	s ome	o f	o ur	goa ls	d uring 	t he	
year. 	T hat 	t rend 	c ould 	b riefly 	r everse 	i n 	t he 	
coming 	y ears 	a s 	o ur 	e mployees 	c ontinue 	
to	r eturn 	t o 	t he 	o ffice, 	b efore 	p rogressing 	
again 	t oward 	m eeting 	o ur 	g oals. 	
2025 Operational Footprint Goals
This is the first year we are reporting progress against our 2025 goals. We expect our progress to fluctuate as the number of people occupying 
our facilities varies during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. 
In connection with our renewable electricity commitment, Citi is a member of RE100 — a global initiative led by the Climate Group and CDP 
(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), which are both part of the We Mean Business Coalition. In recognition of RE100’s requirements, we strive as much as possible to source 100% renewable electricity within the same market boundaries as our consumption. 
(MEASURED AGAINST A 2010 BASELINE)
Goals Progress through 2021
GHG emissions
   45% reduction in location-based GHG emissions 49.8%
Energy
   40% reduction in energy consumption 37.9%
   Maintain 100% renewable electricity sourcing 100.0%*
Water
   30% reduction in total water consumption 38.8%
   25% of water consumed to come from reclaimed/reused sources 7.0%
Sustainable buildings  
   40% of floor area to be LEED, WELL or equivalent certified 34.7%**
Waste    
   50% reduction in total waste 55.8%
   50% of waste diverted from landfill 22.8%
*	91%	meeting 	RE100 	market 	boundary 	criteria; 	9%	sourced 	from 	regionally 	aligned 	markets.
**	2021 	total 	includes 	14	EDGE 	projects 	in	Latin 	America.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
51
In 2021, Citi Tower Hong Kong installed our largest on-site renewable energy 
system to date. This hybrid system generates energy for water heating and 
electricity. The system includes 360 solar panels, which we estimate will 
generate over 85,000 kilowatt-hours annually, avoiding 70 metric tons of CO2 
emissions each year. The site also has a small wind turbine.
With the installation of solar panels for two more 
locations completed 
in 2021, we now have 
six bank branches in 
Mexico with on-site 
solar generation. These 
branches receive from 
60% to 80% of their 
electricity needs from on-site solar power, 
including the branch 
pictured at right in 
Mexico City. The six 
branches have a total 
of 348 solar panels and 
a combined capacity 
of 115 kilowatts when 
operating at their peak output. In 2021, these 
sites produced 64,000 
kilowatt-hours of 
electricity.  Sustainable Building 
Principles in Action
Whether 	undertaking 	new	construction 	or	
renovating 	existing 	buildings, 	we	prioritize 	
efficiency 	and	sustainability, 	to	minimize 	
the	environmental 	impact 	of	our	facilities 	
across 	the	globe. 	Buildings 	are	responsible 	
for	about 	40% 	of	global 	energy 	use	and	
approximately 	one-third 	of	GHG	emissions.2	
Since 	our	own	operations 	consist 	largely 	of	
buildings, 	we	have 	developed 	and	are	pilot-
ing	requirements 	for	all	new	buildings 	to	be	
zero	carbon 	by	2030, 	in	support 	of	our	net	
zero	commitments. 	These 	requirements 	
address 	both 	operational 	and	embodied 	
carbon 	emissions, 	inclusive 	of	energy 	use,	
energy 	supply, 	integration 	with	utilities 	and	
material 	use.	
Citi	is	currently 	renovating 	a	facility 	in	
Gray, 	Tennessee, 	to	align 	with	our	zero-
carbon 	requirements. 	The	plans 	for	this	
facility 	include 	features 	to	reduce 	energy 	
use	as	much 	as	possible 	and	to	meet 	any	
remaining 	energy 	needs 	with	renewable 	
sources. 	Aligning 	this	building 	with	our	
zero-carbon 	building 	requirements 	will	
also	benefit 	the	well-being 	of	those 	using 	
the	building. 	For	instance, 	a	tight 	building 	
seal	will	improve 	air	quality 	and	thermal 	
comfort 	for	those 	inside 	and	will	also	
improve 	energy 	efficiency. 	
One	of	our	2025 	goals 	is	to	have 	40% 	of	
our	facilities, 	by	floor 	area, 	LEED, 	WELL 	
or	equivalent 	certified. 	In	2021, 	we	earned 	
certifications 	for	several 	sustainable 	build -
ing	projects 	in	pursuit 	of	this	goal: 	
	•Guatemala (LEED Gold): 	Reducing 	
the	environmental 	impact 	of	the	
interior 	construction 	of	our	offices 	in	
Guatemala 	was	instrumental 	in	our	
ability 	to	achieve 	LEED 	Gold 	for	this	site.	
Design 	features 	include 	high-efficiency 	
fixtures 	and	equipment 	to	reduce 	water 	
consumption 	by	41.5% 	and	electrical 	
2.	United 	Nations 	Environment 	Programme, 	“Energy 	Efficiency 	for	Buildings ,”	page 	1,	accessed 	November 	2021. 		Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
52
WELL Building Health-Safety Rating
In 2021, as a result of our health and safety practices, we received the 
International WELL Building Health-Safety Rating for all Citi facilities 
globally, including offices, operations centers, data centers and retail 
locations. This seal helps assure our employees and customers that our buildings are safe and healthy environments. The seal is awarded 
to businesses that meet rigorous scientific standards, maintenance 
protocols and emergency plans to address concerns related to COVID-19 
and other infectious diseases now and into the future. 
 
WELL Portfolio Program
Building on the success of the WELL Health-Safety Rating, Citi joined 
the WELL Portfolio Program — a benchmarking program for measuring 
and improving organizational health performance across facilities. 
The WELL Portfolio Program leverages the strategies of the WELL building standard, the leading health-focused building standard. As a 
participating organization, Citi will receive an annual portfolio score 
based on our work to support and enhance the health and well-being of 
employees and customers who work in and visit our buildings every day.
consumption 	by	15.7%. 	We	also	reused 	
77% 	of	the	facility’s 	furniture 	to	reduce 	
waste, 	and	we	were 	able	to	effectively 	
manage 	c onstruction-related 	w aste, 	
capping 	the	volume 	sent	to	landfill 	
at	31.7	kg/m2,	which 	is	15%	below 	the	
industry 	standard. 		
	•Paraguay (EDGE Advanced): 	We	
earned 	our	first	EDGE 	Advanced 	
Certification 	for	our	Agrovet 	Offices 	
in	Paraguay. 	The	Excellence 	in	Design 	
for	Greater 	Efficiencies 	(EDGE) 	certi -
fication 	system 	evaluates 	buildings 	
in	three 	resource 	categories: 	energy, 	
water 	and	materials. 	We	earned 	
Advanced 	Certification 	through 	the	
use	of	features 	that	increase 	energy 	
efficiency 	by	63% 	(mainly 	related 	
to	the	building’s 	heating 	and	cooling 	systems), 	increase 	water 	efficiency 	by	
20% 	through 	high-efficiency 	accesso -
ries	in	restrooms 	and	reduce 	embodied 	
energy 	of	materials 	used 	for	interior 	
spaces 	by	89%.
	•China, Taiwan, United States (LEED 
Volume Program): 	We	accomplished 	
LEED 	v2009 	certification 	for	11	bank 	
branches 	through 	the	LEED 	Volume 	
Program 	and	achieved 	LEED 	v4	Gold 	
for	our	fourth 	retail 	prototype. 	All	new	
and	renovated 	bank 	branches 	will	be	
LEED 	Certified 	based 	on	this	model. 	
We	are	also	planning 	a	significant 	renova -
tion	of	Citi	Tower 	in	London, 	headquarters 	
for	our	Europe, 	Middle 	East	and	Africa 	
region. 	For	this	project, 	which 	we	expect 	
to	complete 	in	2025, 	we	are	prioritizing 	sustainable 	building 	principles 	and	
employee 	well-being 	in	alignment 	with	
LEED, 	BREEAM 	and	WELL 	standards. 	By	
renovating 	the	existing 	building, 	rather 	
than 	demolishing 	it	to	build 	a	new	struc -
ture, 	we	will	avoid 	releasing 	an	estimated 	
100,000 	metric 	tons	of	embodied 	carbon,	
equivalent 	to	21,748 	passenger 	vehicles 	
driven 	for	one	year.3	We	are	designing 	
Citi	Tower 	London 	for	energy 	efficiency 	
from 	top	to	bottom, 	within 	the	constraints 	
of	an	existing 	building, 	and	are	factoring 	
carbon 	emissions 	into	our	decision-making 	
process. 	The	building 	will	feature 	rooftop 	
solar 	panels 	generating 	more 	than 	52,000 	
kilowatt-hours 	per	year	annually 	—	enough 	
to	power 	18	average 	UK	homes4	for	one	
year. 	Efficient 	fixtures 	will	reduce 	water 	
consumption 	by	20%5	and	a	grey	water 	20212021
3.	EPA	Greenhouse 	Gas	Equivalencies 	Calculator .
4.	Average 	electricity 	UK	home 	2021 	resource, 	data 	from 	OFGEM .
5.	A gainst 	L EED	b aseline.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
53
reuse 	system 	will	help	us	save 	an	esti-
mated 	29.5	cubic 	meters 	of	water 	each 	
day,	enough 	to	fill	4.3	Olympic 	pools 	over	
the	course 	of	a	year.6	During 	construction, 	
we	plan	to	refurbish 	and	reuse 	materials 	
on-site 	to	reduce 	waste 	and	embodied 	
carbon, 	and	we	will	work 	to	significantly 	
minimize 	waste 	sent	to	landfill. 	
Employee and 
Customer Well-Being
For	many 	years, 	Citi	has	prioritized 	the	
intersection 	of	sustainability 	and	employee 	
well-being. 	When 	looking 	at	how	our	
buildings 	can	affect 	the	well-being 	of	our	
employees, 	we	manage 	air	quality 	and	
acoustics, 	as	well	as	providing 	ergonomic 	
furniture, 	opportunities 	to	stay	active, 	
healthy 	food 	options 	and	a	work 	environ -
ment 	that	is	both 	flexible 	and	effective. 	
As	a	result 	of	our	efforts, 	we’ve 	received 	
WELL 	Silver 	certification 	from 	the	
International 	WELL 	Building 	Institute™ 	for	
two	facilities, 	one	each 	in	Hong 	Kong 	and	
India. 	Both 	facilities 	are	going 	through 	
the	WELL 	recertification 	process, 	which 	
is	required 	every 	three 	years. 	We	are	
also	working 	toward 	WELL 	certification 	
for	our	London 	headquarters 	renovation. 	
The	WELL 	Building 	Standard 	is	a	system 	
for	measuring, 	certifying 	and	monitoring 	
building 	features 	that	impact 	the	health 	
and	well-being 	of	occupants. 	In	recognition 	
of	how	important 	it	is	to	design 	buildings 	
for	employee 	well-being, 	we	have 	included 	
WELL 	certification 	as	an	aspect 	of	our	
sustainable 	building 	goal	for	2025.
The	COVID-19 	pandemic 	further 	
emphasized 	the	importance 	of	employee 	
well-being 	at	our	office 	facilities, 	
in	addition 	to	the	well-being 	of	our	
employees 	and	customers 	within 	our	
branches. 	With	this	in	mind, 	we	have 	
instituted 	initiatives 	and	protocols 	aligned 	with	the	Centers 	for	Disease 	
Control 	and	Prevention 	guidelines. 	These 	
measures 	include 	improved 	ventilation 	
and	air	treatment 	systems; 	signage 	about 	
effective 	handwashing; 	sanitizer 	stations; 	
enhanced 	cleaning 	measures 	to	reduce 	
exposure 	to	pathogens, 	allergens 	and	
harmful 	chemicals; 	and	rules 	related 	to	
social 	distancing 	and	masks. 	In	addition, 	
we	have 	installed 	plexiglass 	barriers 	in	our	
branches 	to	provide 	increased 	protection 	
for	our	employees 	and	customers. 	To	
further 	support 	our	colleagues, 	we	are	
also	providing 	employees 	with	additional 	
physical 	and	mental 	health 	resources.Employee Engagement
Our	colleagues 	contribute 	to	our	culture 	
of	sustainability 	through 	volunteer 	efforts 	
and	awareness 	campaigns. 	Despite 	the	
challenges 	a	remote 	working 	environment 	
posed 	during 	2021, 	Citi	piloted 	an	Earth 	
Day	initiative 	within 	its	global 	Green 	Team 	
Network 	of	18	teams. 	This	initiative 	encour -
aged 	employees 	to	live	more 	sustainably 	
and	complete 	tasks 	to	save 	water, 	reduce 	
waste 	and	energy 	consumption 	and	learn 	
more 	about 	climate 	change. 	
6.	In	one	year, 	this	equals 	10,767.5 	cubic 	meters. 	Olympic 	pool	size:	2,500 	cubic 	meters. 	10,767.5/2,500 	=	approx. 	4.3.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
54
Beyond 	E arth 	D ay, 	e mployees 	a cross 	t he	
company 	a lso 	c ontribute 	t o 	su stainability 	
initiatives 	a s 	a 	p art 	o f 	t heir 	r egular 	
work 	r esponsibilities. 	F or 	e xample, 	m any	
of	o ur 	e mployees 	h ave 	su stainability-
related 	r esponsibilities 	a s 	p art 	o f 	t heir	
day-to-day 	w ork, 	su ch 	a s 	t hose 	i nvolved 	
in	o ur 	climate 	r isk ,	environmental 	a nd	
social 	r isk 	m anagement 	a nd	low-carbon 	
transition 	e fforts.
Efficient Travel 
Options
Due	to	COVID-19, 	employee 	commuting 	
and	business 	travel 	has	dropped 	signifi -
cantly 	since 	2019. 	For	many 	years, 	we	have 	
encouraged 	employees 	to	use	video 	and	
web	conferencing 	technologies 	rather 	than 	
traveling, 	whenever 	possible. 	With	the	
onset 	of	the	global 	pandemic, 	we	quickly 	
transitioned 	the	entire 	company 	to	adopt 	
use	of	these 	platforms 	for	their 	daily 	
interactions. 	As	our	employees 	return 	to	
the	office, 	we	are	relying 	on	the	efficiency 	
efforts 	we	had	in	place 	before 	the	onset 	of	
COVID-19. 	For	instance, 	many 	of	our	offices 	
are	centrally 	located 	near 	public 	transpor -
tation, 	which 	reduces 	the	need 	for	employ -
ees	to	drive 	to	work, 	and	we	provide 	U.S.-
based 	employees 	pretax 	dollars 	to	cover 	
the	cost	of	commuting 	by	subway, 	bus,	
train, 	ferry 	and	vanpool. 	We	also	offer 	bike	
storage 	and	bike	racks 	at	several 	facilities 	
and	sponsor 	bike	share 	programs, 	known 	
as	the	Citi	Bike®	Program ,	in	New	York 	
City,	Jersey 	City	and	Miami. 	At	our	car	
park	in	the	Citigroup 	Centre 	in	London, 	we	
offer 	a	dozen 	charging 	stations 	for	those 	
driving 	el ectric 	v ehicles.
Due	to	our	global 	scale, 	we	often 	need 	to	
meet 	with	clients, 	partners, 	teams 	and	
other 	stakeholders 	across 	the	world. 	Now	
that	many 	colleagues 	across 	the	firm	have 	
started 	traveling 	again, 	we	are	working 	to	
build 	awareness 	for	how	business 	travel 	
impacts 	our	carbon 	footprint. 	For	example, 	
when 	employees 	book 	travel 	reservations, 	they	are	able	to	see	the	emissions 	data	
related 	to	their 	air	travel. 	We	plan	to	
include 	emissions 	data	for	rail	travel, 	
hotels 	and	rental 	cars	in	the	future. 		
Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations
The	effects 	of	climate 	change, 	particularly 	
extreme 	weather 	events, 	pose 	a	potential 	
risk	to	our	operations. 	Our	Citi	Realty 	
Services 	(CRS) 	Group 	and	our	Crisis 	
Management 	and	Business 	Continuity 	
teams 	help	us	to	monitor, 	prepare 	for	
and	respond 	to	extreme 	weather 	events 	
or	other 	disruptions 	to	our	operations. 	
In	addition, 	CRS	conducts 	due	diligence 	
for	each 	proposed 	new	location 	and	
reassesses 	the	properties’ 	structural 	
resilience 	periodically, 	based 	on	risk,	as	
well	as	following 	significant 	events. 	These 	
assessments 	take	internal 	Citi	standards, 	
as	well	as	local 	and	international 	codes, 	
into	account. 	
Because 	Citi	operates 	in	nearly 	100	
countries, 	our	facilities 	could 	potentially 	
be	exposed 	to	a	range 	of	varied 	climate-
related 	risks. 	To	increase 	our	resiliency, 	
we	have 	invested 	in	climate 	adaptation 	
solutions 	in	a	number 	of	critical 	facilities. 	
In	addition, 	our	crisis 	management 	
team 	has	developed 	action 	plans 	to	
address 	immediate 	risks 	and	support 	our	
employees 	and	customers 	before, 	during 	
and	after 	adverse 	events. 	Our	business 	
continuity 	team 	also	has	plans 	in	place 	to	
help	Citi	resume 	business 	operations 	as	
quickly 	as	possible 	in	the	aftermath 	of	an	
extreme 	climate 	event.
Transparent Reporting 
of Operational Climate 
Impacts
Citi	reports 	our	Scope 	1,	Scope 	2	and	
Scope 	3	GHG	emissions 	in	both 	this	ESG	
report 	and	in	our	CDP	response. 	We	began 	
reporting 	on	the	direct 	environmental 	impacts 	of	our	operations 	in	2002 	and	
have 	submitted 	data	to	CDP	every 	year	
since 	2003. 	We	follow 	the	GHG	Protocol 	
Corporate 	Standard 	and	Scope 	2	Guidance 	
for	measuring 	and	reporting 	both 	market-
based 	and	location-based 	Scope 	1	and	
Scope 	2	GHG	emissions.
We	also	report 	Scope 	3	CO2	emissions 	from 	
air	and	train 	business 	travel 	in	this	ESG	
report ,	and	we	report 	Scope 	3	electricity 	
transmission 	loss	and	employee 	commut -
ing	d ata 	t o 	C DP. 	I n 	e arly 	2 022, 	C iti 	r eceived 	
the	following 	scores 	from 	CDP	related 	to	
2020 	data: 	
	•Climate 	change 	score: 	A-	
	•Supplier 	engagement 	score: 	A	
Our	GHG	emissions 	and	environmental 	
data	for	our	operations 	and	business 	travel 	
are	verified 	and	assured 	by	SGS, 	a	leading 	
third-party 	inspection, 	verification, 	testing 	
and	certification 	company. 	For	our	SGS	
Assurance 	Statement, 	see	the	Assurance 	
section .	Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
55
Environmental Performance for Operations
Goals Progress through 2021
Maintain 100% renewable electricity sourcing 100.0%*
45% reduction in location-based GHG emissions 49.8%
40% reduction in energy consumption 37.9%
30% reduction in total water consumption 38.8%
25% of water consumed to come from reclaimed/reused sources 7.0%
40% of floor area to be LEED, WELL or equivalent certified 34.7%**
50% reduction in total waste 55.8%
50% of waste diverted from landfill 22.8%
Region Certified*Silver Gold Platinum Total
Asia Pacific 10 29 51 12 102
Europe, Middle East and Africa 4 7 30 9 50
Latin America  23 7 6 1 23
North America 35 33 73 2 143
Total 72 76 160 24 332
Building Type 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021**
Branches 4 1 14 14 7
Data Centers 1 0 0 0 0
DC File Storage 0 0 0 0 0
Office Buildings 12 12 18 15 19
Operational Centers 3 1 1 2 1
Total 20 14 33 31 27
Cumulative Total***227 241 274 305 332OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT GOALS (MEASURED AGAINST A 2010 BASELINE)
LEED-CERTIFIED BUILDINGS BY REGION*
LEED-CERTIFIED BUILDINGS BY BUILDING TYPE*
*	This	is	based 	on	the	active 	buildings 	in	the	portfolio 	as	of	year 	end	2021 	and	excludes 	projects 	for	inactive 	and	disposed 	buildings.
**	2021 	total 	includes 	14	EDGE 	projects 	in	Latin 	America 	(13	office 	and	1	branch).
***	Includes 	buildings 	certified 	prior 	to	2017.*	91%	meeting 	RE100 	market 	boundary 	criteria; 	9%	sourced 	from 	regionally 	aligned 	markets.
**	2021 	total 	includes 	14	EDGE 	projects 	in	Latin 	America.
*	Certified 	total 	includes 	14	EDGE 	projects 	in	Latin 	America.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
56
Environmental Performance for Operations (continued)
GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 & 2) BY REGION
REGIONAL OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCERegionScope 1 C02e
(mt)Scope 2 CO2e
Location-Based  (mt)Scope 2 CO2e
Market-Based  (mt) Total CO2e
Location-Based  (mt)Total CO2e
Market-Based  (mt)
Asia Pacific 755 133,947 50,807 134,702 51,562
Europe, Middle East  
and Africa3,939 42,248 5,171 46,187 9,111
Latin America 2,046 83,969 4,022 86,015 6,068
North America 37,943 203,147 978 241,090 38,921
RegionGHG Emissions
Location-Based  (mt)GHG Emissions  
Market-Based  (mt)Total Energy 
Consumption  
(GWh)Total Water 
Consumption 
(m3)Total Waste  
(mt)
Asia Pacific 134,702 51,562 215 593,988 4,324
Europe, Middle East  and Africa46,187 9,111 171 315,964 1,911
Latin America 86,015 6,068 219 801,014 7,767
North America 241,090 38,921 743 1,908,663 11,593
Emission Factor BasisElectricity 
(kWh)Steam  
(kWh)Chilled 
Water 
(kWh)Total  
(kWh)% of Total 
Consumption
RECs or Other Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs)865,079,675 0 0 865,079,675 76%
PPA or Source Contract 140,856,007 0 0 140,856,007 12%
Self-Generated Renewables 117,604 0 0 117,604 0%
Supplier-Specific 0 0 0 0 0%
Residual Mix 0 0 652,402 652,402 0%
Regionally Aligned EACs – Grid Average104,781,026 0 17,274,301 122,055,327 11%
Steam Default 0 8,427,189 0 8,427,189 1%
Total 1,110,834,312 8,427,189 17,926,703 1,137,188,204 100%ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY MARKET-BASED EMISSION FACTOR TYPES
Note: 	Figures 	may	not	sum	to	totals 	due	to	rounding.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
57
2010 2017  2018 2019 2020 2021
Operating Sq. Ft. 64,172,247 48,051,230 45,137,587 45,116,344 42,349,249 40,746,199
Headcount 336,622 208,043 199,458 188,779 193,989 200,347
Energy 2010 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Natural Gas (GWh) 123 63 80 70 65 178
LP Gas (GWh) -- -- -- 1 1 1
Fuel Oil (GWh) 50 29 28 0 0 0
Diesel (GWh) -- -- -- 32 30 32
Scope 1 Energy (GWh) 173 92 108 104 95 210
Electricity (GWh) 1,922 1,447 1,374 1,312 1,180 1,111
District Heating (Steam 
& Chilled Water) (GWh)74 58 57 46 29 26
Scope 2 Energy (GWh) 1,996 1,505 1,431 1,358 1,209 1,137
Total Energy (GWh) 2,169 1,597 1,539 1,461 1,304 1,348
CO2e Emissions 2010 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Direct CO2e 
(GHG Scope 1)
(Gas & Fuel Oil) 38,912 20,951 24,132 23,095 21,236 44,683
Indirect CO2e  
(GHG Scope 2) (Electricity, Steam  
& Chilled Water)973,169 677,636 620,485 568,780 505,224 463,311
Total CO
2e (mt) 1,012,081 698,587 644,618 591,875 526,459 507,994
Water Consumption 2010 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Potable Water (m3) 5,899,458 4,595,506 4,269,280 4,205,434 3,444,961 3,366,620
Nonpotable Water (m3) 15,299 284,292 247,846 277,642 337,431 253,010
Total Water Consumption (m
3)5,914,757 4,879,798 4,517,127 4,483,076 3,782,392 3,619,630ABSOLUTE INDICATORSEnvironmental Impact Report
Note: 	Figures 	may	not	sum	to	totals 	due	to	rounding.
Note: 	Historical 	data 	can	vary 	from 	year 	to	year 	due	to	changes 	in	operational 	control 	as	a	result 	of	acquisitions 	and	dispositions 	of	businesses. 	Historical 	adjustments 	are	not	made 	as	
a	result 	of	organic 	growth 	or	decline 	for	businesses 	remaining 	under 	operational 	control.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
58
Environmental Impact Report (continued)
Total Energy Consumed 2010 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
kWh/Rentable Sq. Ft. 34 33 34 32 31 33
kWh/Headcount 6,444 7,678 7,717 7,740 6,713 6,726
Net CO2e 2010 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Metric Tons/Rentable  
Sq. Ft.0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Metric Tons/Headcount 3.01 3.36 3.23 3.14 2.71 2.54
Business Travel 2010 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Business Air Travel CO2e 
(mt)100,243 151,112 149,588 126,055 21,785 10,554
Business Train Travel CO2e 
(mt)NA 209 227 174 44 32Waste 2010 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Recycled Office Paper (mt) 17,414 11,709 10,953 10,760 6,251 5,824
Refuse and Other (mt) 40,471 26,846 26,677 25,633 21,153 19,771
Total Waste (mt) 57,885 38,555 37,630 36,393 27,404 25,595
RELATIVE INDICATORS
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
Note: 	Historical 	data 	can	vary 	from 	year 	to	year 	due	to	changes 	in	operational 	control 	as	a	result 	of	acquisitions 	and	dispositions 	of	businesses. 	Historical 	adjustments 	are	not	made 	as	
a	result 	of	organic 	growth 	or	decline 	for	businesses 	remaining 	under 	operational 	control.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
59
In This Section
62	Our	Commitment 	to	Social 	Finance
66	 Action for Racial Equity
70	Citi	Impact 	Fund
72	COVID-19 	Relief 	and	Recovery
75	Affordable 	Housing
78	Strategic 	PhilanthropyEquitable 	
		and	Resilient 	
	 	 CommunitiesContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT 60Over the past two years, the 
COVID-19 pandemic reaffirmed 
the urgency to address the 
vast and growing inequities 
facing our global society, from 
financial security and access 
to basic human necessities to 
affordable housing and economic 
opportunity. Throughout 2021, 
Citi and the Citi Foundation 
accelerated and expanded 
investments in communities around the world, helping to 
support a more inclusive recovery 
and more equitable future. 
Building 	on	our	longstanding 	leadership 	in	
financial 	inclusion, 	we	expanded 	the	scope 	
of	our	social 	finance 	efforts 	to	maximize 	
our	impacts 	and	to	help	achieve 	the	$500 	
Billion 	Social 	Finance 	Goal	we	set	as	part	
of	our	overall 	$1	trillion 	commitment 	to	
sustainable 	finance 	by	2030. 	We	invested 	
$1	billion 	in	a	broad 	suite 	of	initiatives 	
designed 	to	help	close 	the	racial 	wealth 	
gap	in	the	United 	States 	and	to	increase 	
economic 	mobility 	through 	Citi	and	the	
Citi	F oundation’s 	Action for Racial Equity 	
commitment. 	And	we	increased 	our	invest -
ments 	in	the	Citi	Impact 	Fund ,	more 	than 	
half	of	which 	went 	to	minority-owned 	and	
women-owned 	c ompanies.
We	also	continued 	to	support 	COVID-19 	
relief 	and	recovery 	efforts 	globally 	while 	
staying 	f ocused 	o n 	o ur 	l ong-term 	p riorities, 	
including 	affordable 	hou sing	and	the	Citi	
Foundation’s 	s trategic 	g rantmaking 	e fforts .			
Investing in Our Communities
2021 Highlights
$500B 
Social Finance Goal
Committed to reach 
15M 
households, including  
10 million women, by 2025 
$59B 
in social finance activity  
globally in 2020 and 2021 
Issued inaugural 
$1B
Citi Social Finance  
Bond offering 
$1B 
invested in initiatives 
to help close the racial 
wealth gap
68% 
of asset allocation directed to women and/
or racially/ethnically diverse founders of 
companies through the Citi Impact Fund$5.64B 
financed for affordable  
housing projects in the  
United States 
$100+M 
in grants provided by  
the Citi Foundation Announced ourContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
61
Our	Commitment 	to	Social 	Finance
Billions of people around the  
world lack access to basic  
necessities — clean water,  
education, electricity, financial 
products, housing, medicine —  
hampering their economic  
progress and social growth. 
As	an	institution 	with	a	longstanding 	
history 	of	driving 	positive 	social 	impact 	
and	financial 	innovations 	that	benefit 	
communities 	around 	the	world, 	we	took	
our	commitment 	to	a	new	level 	in	2021: 	
announcing 	a	$500 	Billion 	Social 	Finance 	
Goal	as	part	of	our	$1	trillion 	commitment 	
to	sustainable 	finance 	by	2030 	with	corre -
sponding 	criteria 	for	activities 	related 	to	
affordable 	basic 	infrastructure, 	affordable 	
housing, 	diversity 	and	equity, 	economic 	
inclusion, 	education, 	food 	security 	and	
healthcare. 		
Many 	of	our	Citi	business 	units 	—	including 	
Banking, 	Capital 	Markets 	and	Advisory; 	
Global 	Markets; 	Trade 	and	Treasury 	
Services; 	Citi	Community 	Capital; 	and	
Citi	Commercial 	Bank 	—	are	dedicated 	
to	delivering 	products 	and	services 	that	
can	contribute 	to	the	social 	finance 	goal. 	
These 	include 	the	issuance 	of	social 	bonds 	
and	sustainability-linked 	bonds, 	financing 	
and	advisory 	services 	to	companies 	with	
social 	missions, 	creation 	of	municipal 	
bonds 	with	social 	use	of	proceeds 	(such 	as	
education 	or	health), 	or	loans 	and	facilities 	
with	eligible 	social 	use	of	proceeds. 	We	
have 	broadened 	the	focus 	of	our	global 	
Citi	Social 	Finance 	team, 	formerly 	our	
Inclusive 	Finance 	team, 	which 	works 	
across 	Citi	businesses 	globally 	to	develop 	
scalable 	business 	platforms 	and	client 	
solutions 	that	enable 	the	bank, 	our	clients 	
and	partners 	to	expand 	financial 	inclusion, 	
accelerate 	access 	to	basic 	services, 	boost 	job	creation 	and	scale 	social 	infrastructure 	
development 	in	emerging 	markets. 	As	part	
of	our	social 	finance 	focus, 	we	are	aiming 	
to	invest 	in	opportunities 	for	15	million 	
low-income 	households, 	including 	10	million 	
women, 	globally 	by	2025. 	
The	recent 	expansion 	of	this	team 	builds 	
on	our	15-year 	track 	record 	of	developing 	
new	business 	models 	and	partnerships 	
that	leverage 	market-based 	approaches 	
to	improve 	the	livelihoods 	of	low-income 	
communities 	around 	the	world. 	Since 	
2007, 	these 	efforts 	have 	reached 		
4.1	million 	unbanked 	and	underbanked 		
individuals 	in	emerging 	markets 	—		
including 	3.7	million 	women. 		
These 	efforts, 	which 	are	focused 	on	
supporting 	emerging 	markets, 	are	comple -
mented 	by	our	social 	finance 	activities 	in	
higher-income 	countries, 	such 	as	our	work 	
to	finance 	affordable 	housing 	projects 	in	
the	United 	States 	and	to	issue 	bonds 	that	
help	advance 	a	range 	of	social 	solutions.
Read 	some 	case 	studies 	of	the	deals 	
that	will	contribute 	to	our	$1	trillion 	
commitment 	later 	in	this	chapter 	and	in	
the	Sustainable 	Finance 	section .	
Our	extensive 	work 	on	social 	finance 	
contributes 	to	progress 	on	SDG 8 ,	which 	
aims, 	among 	other 	things, 	to	provide 
full and productive employment and 
decent work for all .	For	example, 	Citi’s 	
work 	on	financial 	inclusion 	around 	the	
world 	contributes 	to	target 	8.3,	which 	
encourages 	productive activities, 
decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and the 
formalization and growth of micro-, 
small- and medium-sized enterprises 
through access to financial services
.	Our	approach 	also	supports 	target 	8.10 ,	
which 	aims 	to	strengthen the capacity 
of domestic financial institutions  to 
encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial 
services for all
.	
Social 	finance 	is	also	a	key	success 	factor 	
for	progress 	on	SDG 9 ,	which 	aims 	to	
build resilient infrastructure, promote 
inclusive and sustainable industrializa -
tion and foster innovation ,	specifically 	
enabling 	progress 	on	target 	9.3,	which 	
seeks 	to	increase the access of small-
scale enterprises, facilitating integration 
into value chains and markets .	
And	our	work 	on	catalyzing 	the	distribu -
tion	of	small 	loans 	in	emerging 	markets 	
—	which 	typically 	benefits 	women 	—	directly 	
contributes 	to	SDG 5 ,	in	support 	of	gender 
equality and empowerment for all women and girls
,	and	in	particular 	target 	5.a,	
which 	strives 	for	a	range 	of	gender-related 	
objectives, 	including 	giving 	women equal 
rights to economic resources .		
SDG Goal 8:  Decent Work and Economic 
Growth 
SDG Goal 9:  Industry, Innovation and 
Infrastructure  
SDG Goal 5:  Gender Equality Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
62
Latin America Mexico Europe, Middle East & Africa Asia Pacific
Argentina
BahamasBrazilChile
Colombia
Costa RicaD.R.EcuadorEl SalvadorGuatemalaHaitiHondurasJamaicaPanama
Paraguay
PeruPuerto RicoTrinidad/TobagoUruguay Mexico AlgeriaAustriaBahrainBelgium
Bulgaria
CameroonCongo, DRCôe d’IvoireCzech Rep.Denmark  
Egypt
FinlandFrance
GabonGermanyGhana
Greece
HungaryIraq 
IrelandIsraelItalyJerseyJordanKazakhstanKenyaKuwait
Lebanon
LuxembourgMauritius  
MonacoMoroccoNetherlandsNigeria
NorwayPakistan
PolandPortugalQatar
Romania
RussiaSaudi ArabiaSenegalSlovakiaSouth AfricaSpain
SwedenSwitzerland
TanzaniaTunisiaTurkey
UAE
UKUgandaUkraineZambiaAustraliaBangladeshChinaHong Kong
IndiaIndonesiaJapanMacauMalaysiaNew ZealandPhilippinesSingaporeSouth KoreaSri Lanka
Taiwan
ThailandVietnam
North 
America
United 
StatesCanadaBond Offerings Advance Social Initiatives
In October 2021, we issued o ur inaugural Citi Social Finance Bond, a $1 billion bond offering to support social and economic development 
efforts or activities that increase opportunity and access to essential basic services. Proceeds from the bond will finance a range of 
projects, including those that expand access to financial services, affordable housing, basic infrastructure, healthcare and education in 
underserved and unbanked communities in emerging markets.
The bond offering followed the release of our Citi Social Finance Framework , one of the world’s first global social finance frameworks 
focused on enabling financial inclusion, affordable housing and access to essential services in emerging markets. The framework, which 
was developed in line with the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) Social Bond Principles 2021,*  details how projects and 
assets will be selected. We will report annually on the use of funds and related impacts.
The Citi Social Finance Bond follows the 2020 issuance of Citi’s inaugural $2.5 billion Affordable Housing Bond, which was then the 
largest-ever social bond from an issuer in the private sector. Learn more . 
*	Sustainalytics, 	an	independent 	provider 	of	sustainability 	research, 	analysis 	and	services 	to	financial 	institutions 	globally, 	reviewed 	the	Framework 	and	confirmed 	in	its	assessment
the	alignment 	with	the	transparency 	and	reporting 	requirements 	of	the	ICMA 	Social 	Bond 	Principles 	2021.Worl d Bank Low-Income and  
Lower-Middle-Income Countries 
with Citi Presence 
Upper Middle-Income Countries 
with Citi Presence 
High-Income Countries with  
Citi PresenceCITI’S SOCIAL FINANCE ACTIVITIES IN EMERGING MARKETS
Citi's global footprint and capabilities make the bank uniquely able to provide a consistent and developed approach to local currency funding 
in support of the economies benefitting the world's most underserved communities.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
63
Social Finance Transactions
The	following 	are	examples 	of	social 	finance 	transactions 	from 	2021 	that	demonstrate 	our	efforts 	to	drive 	positive 	social 	impact 	in	
underserved 	communities 	around 	the	world. 	Other 	examples 	can	be	found 	in	the	Sustainable 	Finance 	section .
In Sub-Saharan Africa, more than 50 million families earn a 
living from small farms, which produce 80% of the continent’s 
food. But harvests still lag far behind the rest of the world. 
The nonprofit One Acre Fund supplies smallholder farmers with everything they need to grow more food and earn more 
money, with the primary goal of enhancing food security. In 
partnership with the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC), Citi structured a $10 million flexible working 
capital solution for One Acre Fund in Kenya and an additional 
$5 million working capital facility for the other seven African countries where One Acre Fund operates. Since 2015, farmers 
who participate in One Acre Fund’s programs earn on average 
nearly 50% more than peer farmers who are not on One Acre Fund-supported activities.
EXPANDING ACCESS TO LOANS IN B ANGLADESH 
Basic Unit for Resources and Opportunities of Bangladesh  (BURO Bangladesh) is a leading microfinance institution that 
offers high-quality loans, savings and insurance to small 
businesses, smallholder farmers and women. BURO Bangladesh currently serves more than 2.2 million low-income women,  
with average loans of approximately $850.  In 2021, Citi was  
the sole arranger of $68 million in in equivalent local currency, 
which is expected to give 85,000 people — 80% of them  
women — access to finance.
ENHANCING FOOD SECURITY FOR SMALLHOLDER FARMERSContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
64
SUPPORTING LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE  
IN MEXICO  
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, Sociedad 
Nacional de Crédito (Banobras) is a state-owned Mexican 
development bank that seeks to improve the quality of life 
of local populations while contributing to the country’s sustainable development. Banobras provides financing to 
public and private investment projects focused on the delivery 
of essential infrastructure and public service projects. In September, Citibanamex acted as a joint bookrunner for an 
approximately $500,000 local sustainability bond linked 
to basic infrastructure projects — infrastructure damaged by natural disasters; renewables: wind farms, photovoltaic 
plants and/or hydroelectric plants; sustainable transportation; 
wastewater treatment plants; and hospitals and energy efficiency projects.IMPROVING LIVELIHOO DS THROUGH CLEAN 
ENERGY SOLUTIONS  
d.light is a global leader and pioneer in delivering affordable solar-powered solutions designed for the 759 million people 
in the developing world without access to reliable energy. 
Through four hubs in Africa, China, South Asia and the United States, d.light has sold more than 20 million solar 
light and power products in 70 countries, improving the lives 
of over 100 million people. In 2019, Citi provided a $5 million working capital loan in local currency to enable d.light to 
provide clean energy solutions that improve livelihoods 
in Kenya. In 2021, Citi provided an incremental $3 million working capital facility.
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
65
Action for Racial Equity
In the midst of a global pandemic 
that disproportionately affected 
communities of color, we took a 
hard look at ourselves and our 
own contribution to the status 
quo. We saw how we could use 
our power — as individuals, as a 
company and as an industry —  
to drive a lasting transformative 
movement toward greater equity. 
The	r esult 	w as 	Action for Racial Equity ,	a	
four-pronged 	c ommitment 	o f	C iti	a nd	t he	
Citi	Foundation 	 to	 invest 	 more 	 than	 $1	 billion 	
by	2 023 	i n 	s trategic 	i nitiatives 	t o 	p rovide 	
greater 	 access 	 to	 banking 	 and	 credit 	 in	
communities 	o f	c olor,	in crease 	in vestment 	
in	B lack-owned 	bu sinesses, 	e xpand 	a fford -
able	hou sing 	an d	ho meownership 	am ong	
Black 	A mericans, 	an d	a dvance 	an ti-racist 	
practices 	i n 	o ur 	o wn 	c ompany 	a nd 	i n 	t he	
financial 	s ervices 	i ndustry.
By	November 	 2021 	 —	 one	 year	 into	 our	
three-year 	 pledge 	 —	 we	 had	 already 	 invested 	
$1	billion 	 into	 initiatives 	 expanding 	 economic 	
opportunity 	f or	c ommunities 	o f	c olor,	
putting 	u s 	o n 	t rack 	t o 	e xceed 	o ur 	o riginal 	
$1.1	billion 	 commitment 	 set	 in	 2020. 	
Since 	t he 	l aunch 	o f 	Action for Racial Equity ,	
we	h ave 	b een 	e ngaged 	a cross 	o ur 	b usiness 	
to	t hink 	a nd 	a ct 	i n 	su pport 	o f 	e quity 	a nd	
our	g oal 	o f 	c losing 	t he 	ra cial 	w ealth 	g ap	
and	i ncreasing 	e conomic 	m obility 	i n 	t he	
United 	 States. 	 Throughout 	 2021, 	 we	 worked 	
on	o ne 	o f 	o ur 	k ey 	m easures 	o f 	su ccess 	—	
institutionalizing 	t he 	c ommitment 	t o 	ra cial	
equity 	a cross 	t he 	fi rm. 	F or 	e xample, 	w e	
created 	t he 	D iverse 	F inancial 	I nstitutions 	
Group, 	a 	d edicated 	t eam 	w ithin 	C iti 	t hat 	i s	
serving 	a s 	a 	h ub 	t o 	l ead 	a nd 	e xpand 	fi rm-
wide 	e ngagement 	w ith 	m inority 	d epository 	
institutions 	( MDIs), 	di verse 	b roker-dealers 	and	d iverse 	as set	m anagers. 	W e’re	a lso 	
diversifying 	o ur 	t eams 	t o 	b etter 	s erve	
our	c ommunities. 	W e 	s tarted 	t o 	d evelop 	a	
centralized 	F inancial 	I nclusion 	a nd 	R acial 	
Equity 	S egment 	T eam	w ithin	U .S.	Per sonal 	
Banking 	t o 	d evelop 	t argeted 	a nd 	i nte-
grated 	s egment 	s trategies, 	d rive 	s eamless 	
customer-centric 	e xecution, 	a nd	c hampion 	
greater 	fi nancial 	i nclusion, 	ra cial 	e quity 	
and	c ustomer 	p rotection. 	
We’re 	h arnessing 	o ur 	i nfluence 	t o	
encourage 	o ur 	l aw 	fi rm 	a nd 	a gency 	
partners 	t o 	j oin 	u s 	i n 	e fforts 	t o 	a dvance 	
racial 	eq uity. 	W e	ob tained 	de tailed 	
diversity 	d ata 	f rom 	t he 	U .S. 	l aw 	p artners 	
who	m ake 	u p 	m ore 	t han 	t wo-thirds 	o f 	o ur	
U.S.	l egal 	s pend, 	e nabling 	u s 	t o 	i dentify 	
opportunities 	t o	i ncrease 	re presentation 	
of	d iverse 	a ttorneys 	o n 	C iti’s 	l egal 	m atters. 	
And	w e’re 	w orking 	w ith 	a dvertising 	a gency 	
partners 	t hat 	c omprise 	t he	l argest 	p ortion 	
of	o ur 	m arketing 	s pend 	t o	in crease 	d iverse 	
representation 	o f	a gency 	t eams, 	i ncluding 	
senior 	l eadership, 	t o 	h elp 	e nsure 	d iversity 	
in	C iti 	m arketing 	m aterials. 	 	
We	r ecognize 	t hat 	t o 	c ontinue 	c losing 	t he	
racial 	w ealth 	g ap, 	w e 	n eed 	a n 	a pproach 	
that	s parks 	i mmediate 	c hange 	w hile 	a lso	
creating 	e conomic 	s olutions 	t hat 	su pport 	
systemic 	c hange 	f or 	t he 	l ong 	t erm. 	W e	
also	r ecognize 	t he 	n eed 	t o 	h old 	o urselves 	
accountable, 	s tarting 	w ith	b eing	t rans-
parent 	a bout 	w here 	w e 	a re 	a nd 	w here 	
we	n eed 	t o 	c ontinue 	p ushing 	t o 	i mprove. 	
That’s 	w hy 	w e 	c ommitted 	t o 	a 	third-party 	
racial 	e quity 	a udit	o f	o ur 	Action for 
Racial Equity 	c ommitments. 	A dditionally, 	
we	w ere 	t he 	fi rst 	m ajor 	W all 	S treet 	
bank 	t o 	p articipate 	i n 	t he 	M anagement 	
Leadership 	f or	T omorrow 	B lack	E quity 	
at	W ork 	C ertification, 	w hich 	w as 	c reated 	
to	h elp 	g uide 	c ompanies 	a nd 	k eep 	t hem	
accountable 	f or	m aking 	p rogress 	ar ound 	Black 	e quity. 	( Learn 	m ore 	a bout 	t he	
certification 	i n	t he	Talent 	a nd 	D iversity ,	
Equity 	&	Inclusion 	s ection.) 	
Our	Action for Racial Equity 	commitments 	
contribute 	to	SDG 8 ,	which 	aims, 	among 	
other 	things, 	to	provide full and produc -
tive employment and decent work for all 	
and	specifically 	contributes 	to	target 	8.3,	
which 	supports 	productive activities, 
decent job creation, entrepreneurship, 
creativity and innovation, and the 
formalization and growth of micro-, 
small- and medium-sized enterprises 
through access to financial services .	
Our	approach 	also	supports 	target 	8.10 :	
to	strengthen the capacity of domestic 
financial institutions to encourage and 
expand access to banking, insurance and 
financial services for all .	The	affordable 	
housing 	components 	of	Action for Racial 
Equity 	align 	with	SDG	target 	11.1,	which 	
includes 	providing 	access for all to 
adequate, safe and affordable housing 
and basic services .	
	
SDG Goal 8:  Decent Work and Economic  
SDG Goal 11:  Sustainable Cities and 
Communities
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
66
Made a new equity investment 
in First Independence Bank, 
increasing the number of minority 
depository institutions (MDIs)  
Citi has invested in to 11 
Total to date: $44 million
Commit ted new Citi Impact Fund 
equity investments in Cityblock Health, Wonderschool, Cayaba 
Care and seed-stage venture 
capital firm Precursor Ventures  
Total to date: $25 millionOpportunity LA (OLA) began 
providing savings accounts to 
44,000+ first grade students in 
the Los Angeles Unified School 
District using the Citi Start Saving® 
platform, becoming the largest universal children’s savings account 
program in the United StatesWorked exclusively with five Black-owned firms to syndicate 
a $2.5 billion bond issuance. 
Proceeds from the bond will 
finance quality affordable housing 
for low-and moderate-income 
populations in the United States
To date, the Citi Foundation has 
granted $72 million of its three-
year target to invest $100 million 
in community change agents 
advancing racial equityExpanded reach of the low-cost 
Citi® Access Account Package 
with Local Initiatives Support 
Corporation (LISC) through their 
Financial Opportunity Centers in 
Chicago, Detroit, Houston, Rhode 
Island and Toledo, OhioSpent over $1.2 billion with diverse suppliers in 2021, including 
$432 million with Black-owned 
businesses aloneClosed $16.5 million in affordable housing loan participation 
opportunities with MDIs
Total to date: $36 million
Announced plans to eliminate 
overdraft fees, returned item fees 
and overdraft protection transfer 
fees for improved access to 
banking products and services to 
aid with addressing racial wealth 
gaps that have a disproportionately 
negative impact on Black and 
Latino customersAction for Racial Equity:  
An Update on Our Progress
Action for Racial Equity Goals
Expand banking and access to 
credit in communities of colorInvest in Black 
entrepreneurship
Strengthen Citi’s policies and 
practices in order to become  
an anti-racist institutionInvest in affordable housing  
and promote the growth of  
Black homeownership
Citi and Citi Foundation Highlights Since Our One-Year Update1 2
3 4Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
67
RACIAL EQUITY AUDIT
Measurement and transparency are essential components of our efforts to advance diversity, equity and inclusion both 
at our own bank and through our contributions to our communities and society more broadly. In that spirit, we committed 
to conduct a third-party racial equity audit to assess our efforts to help address the racial wealth gap in the United 
States through the design and implementation of Action for Racial Equity . 
Covington & Burling LLP, which has civil rights expertise and experience leading racial equity audits across various 
industries, is conducting the audit. The firm is gathering input from a range of stakeholders, including Citi employees 
involved in implementing Action for Racial Equity , financial institutions and other partners directly benefiting or 
involved in implementing the initiative, and civil rights organizations that can represent the views of the customers 
and communities the initiative is designed to support. Conducting an audit of Action for Racial Equity  will help Citi 
assess our work and will show where we can adapt and grow to make an even more meaningful impact going forward. 
The audit represents another step in our efforts to strengthen Citi’s policies and practices in order to become an anti-
racist institution. The audit began in January 2022, and we look forward to sharing the findings following its expected 
completion at the end of 2022.
BRIDGE BUILT BY CITISM
Many small- and medium-sized businesses in the United States find that securing a loan can be a time-consuming, manual process. Business owners are often limited to banks near their own locations, while local and community banks 
can have a tough time broadening their reach to potential borrowers. 
Enter Bridge built by Citi
SM, a new lending platform that democratizes the loan process by matching small- and medium-
sized businesses online with regional, local and community banks for loans up to $10 million. Launched in August 2021, 
the platform aims to expand access to capital for smaller businesses while widening the customer base for lenders. 
Twenty-nine banks, including nine minority depository institutions (MDIs), are participating in a pilot program in seven states in the Southeast and Rockies regions.
Learn more about our engagement with other MDIs . 
ROHIT MATHUR, 
DIRECTOR, CO-CREATOR, BRIDGE BUILT BY CITI
Innovation in financial technology forces you to 
create a new path without being able to rely on how things have always been done. We have leveraged the expertise of professionals at our bank to create a fintech solution.”“HARTE THOMPSON, 
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, CO-CREATOR, BRIDGE BUILT BY CITI
What began as a sketch on a whiteboard has now 
given many business owners the access to banks that they deserve.”“
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
68
Collaborating with MDIs 
 
Minority depository institutions (MDIs) have long been the trusted source of banking and access to capital for communities of color. 
For generations, they have provided essential financial services, especially for Black Americans who have not had equitable access to 
the mainstream banking system and therefore had fewer opportunities to build generational wealth.
Research shows that, compared with other financial institutions, MDIs originate a greater share of mortgages to borrowers of color.* 
They also originate a greater share of small business loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration to entrepreneurs of color 
than other financial institutions.
But since 2001, the number of Black-owned and operated banks has declined by more than half.** As of September 2021, there were 
only 20 Black banking institutions, and only one of them held more than $1 billion of assets.*** 
One of the four goals of Action for Racial Equity  is expanding banking and access to credit in communities of color, in part through 
collaboration with MDIs. During Citi focus groups with Black MDIs, leaders overwhelmingly prioritized access to capital and capacity-
building investments to grow their revenue and operations, which would enable the MDIs to diversify products and expand services.
Our collaboration with Unity National Bank is just one example of how we’re offering expertise and guidance to MDIs. We have 
supported growth capital opportunities for Unity by providing an equity investment and inviting Unity in on select project-based 
affordable housing lending opportunities, including a loan for 381 affordable housing units in Texas.
We also onboarded Unity on the Bridge built by Cit iSM platform to help expand their customer base, and we have enabled Unity to gain 
contract-based revenue as a subcontractor on existing Citi federal business lines. In order to help Unity prepare for long-term growth, 
we’re collaborating on shared media and client conversations and supporting talent acquisition by exposing high-achieving students of 
color to banking as a career. Further, pro bono technical assistance delivered in collaboration with Deloitte and the National Bankers Association is helping Unity to strengthen access to talent pipeline development initiatives and corporate board seats.
In 2021, we doubled down on our collaboration with Unity by piloting the Citi Rotational Program, which embedded a Citi executive 
at Unity with the mandate of supporting revenue generation through the New Markets Tax Credit Program and expanding their 
affordable housing work.
Lack of wealth generation opportunities and access to 
affordable housing continue to plague Black and Brown communities, and our mission is to create equitable access to capital to help fill that void. We’re thrilled to have the continued support and partnership of Citi, including their equity investment and embedded senior counsel, to help grow our business. Together, we can find more opportunities to drive economic value and impact in the communities we serve.” DR. KASE LAWAL, 
CHAIRMAN, UNITY NATIONAL BANK
“
*	Federal 	Deposit 	Insurance 	Corporation, 	“2019 	Minority 	Depository 	Institutions: 	Structure, 	Performance, 	and	Social 	Impact.” 		
**	Federal 	Deposit 	Insurance 	Corporation, 	“Minority 	Depository 	Institutions 	List,	Historical 	Data 	Year-by-Year 	2001-2020.” 	
***	Federal 	Deposit 	Insurance 	Corporation, 	“Minority 	Depository 	Institutions 	List,	Fourth 	Quarter 	2020.” 	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
69
Citi	Impact 	Fund
The Citi Impact Fund is a $200 
million venture capital fund with 
a mission of investing in “double 
bottom line” companies that are 
addressing societal challenges, 
such as reaching low- and 
moderate-income households with 
innovative financial and workforce services, delivering solutions for the climate transition economy, 
and addressing needs for inclusive 
healthcare and housing. 
Venture 	capital 	funding 	has	historically 	
been 	inaccessible 	to	most 	start-up 	found -
ers,	but	especially 	so	for	women 	and	
people 	of	color.The	fund, 	which 	at	its	founding 	in	2020 	
was	the	largest 	impact 	fund 	ever	launched 	
by	a	bank 	using 	its	own	capital, 	focuses 	
on	companies 	that	are	led	or	owned 	by	
women 	or	racial/ethnic 	minorities. 	We	
started 	the	fund 	with	$150 	million 	in	
January 	2020, 	adding 	another 	$50	million 	
specifically 	to	support 	businesses 	owned 	
by	Black 	entrepreneurs 	as	part	of	Action 
for Racial Equity .
Committed to
20	
new investees in 2021  
and Q1 2022, bringing  
total portfolio to 31
IMPACT FUND FOCUS AREAS$88.6M 	
Total committed  
through Q1 202222 
companies founded by  
women and/or racial/ethnic  
minorities supported to date
Workforce  
DevelopmentSustainability Physical and  
Social  
InfrastructureFinancial  
InclusionCiti Impact Fund: Progress to Date
Supported 13 Black founders  — most of which are seed or 
early-stage investments, accounting for 41%  of the Fund’s portfolio 
and 28%  of the Fund’s total equity investedContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
70
Making an Impact
 
Since its launch in early 2020, the Citi Impact Fund made investments in 31 U.S.-based, double-bottom line 
companies with business models built around positive social and environmental impact and outcomes. Thirteen of those investments were in companies with Black founders who are working to help close the racial wealth, education, healthcare and connectivity gaps in the United States, directly impacting marginalized communities for the better.
Below are just some of the companies we have invested in. For the full list, visit our website .  
For nearly five years, Cityblock Health has been radically transforming healthcare for underserved and marginalized 
communities across the country. The Citi Impact Fund’s investment has helped us continue to scale our services and 
align business and clinical models around equitable and improved outcomes. Citi’s partnership is strong validation of our mission and how critically important it is to democratize access to high-quality, comprehensive care in our communities.”Cityblock Health
TOYIN AJAYI, CEO & AND CO-FOUNDER
“
The events of the last two years have stressed the importance of high-speed, low-cost broadband availability for 
all Americans. The hardest hit communities have seen regression in education and remote job capabilities due to 
lack of broadband  options. Through our valuable partnership with Citi, Flume has been able to build out its initial 
gigabit fiber network and connect thousands of underserved people, affordable housing units, new developments and suburbs. With the Citi platform allowing Flume to rapidly deploy its technology, we can make a substantial impact on closing the digital divide with our network deployment.”Flume
BRANDON GIBSON, CO-FOUNDER 
“
Daylight
ROB CURTIS, CEO AND CO-FOUNDER
“The Citi Impact Fund’s investment in Daylight was the springboard we needed to build legitimacy for our social impact work, improving the financial lives of the LGBTQ+ community, and helped us close our seed round almost immediately afterwards. Thanks, Citi, for supporting our work to close the LGBTQ+ wealth gap."
Full Harvest
CHRISTINE MOSELEY , FOUNDER & CEO
Full Harvest is thrilled to have Citi Impact Fund as a new investment partner, given their aligned values with our mission to help solve the $2.6 trillion global food waste problem. Full Harvest tackles food waste at the farm level with the world’s first online business-to-business produce marketplace specializing in imperfect and surplus produce. Our technology improves efficiencies for produce buyers and farms and captures market insights not previously available, all while reducing one of the largest contributors to climate change: food waste. With Citi Impact Fund’s investment, Full Harvest is able to achieve even more impact and revenue by scaling our technology further, expanding into new geographies and commodities and growing our team. A win-win-win for farmers, food companies and the planet.”
“
OhmConnect
CISCO DEVRIES, CEO 
Citi is helping fund OhmConnect’s vision to make 100% clean energy accessible to everyone. With our nearly 200,000 California customers saving energy at critical times, we have helped prevent blackouts while paving the way for a more stable grid.”
“Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
71
COVID-19 	Relief 	and	Recovery
Throughout 2021, Citi and the Citi 
Foundation continued to address 
immediate needs for COVID-19 
relief while staying focused on 
longer-term economic recovery. 
Many of our efforts were geared 
toward underserved communities 
around the world, which were 
facing disproportionate burdens 
from the global pandemic.  
By	the	end	of	2021, 	Citi	and	the	Citi	
Foundation 	had	contributed 	more 	than 	
$160 	million 	in	COVID-19 	and	recovery 	
efforts 	since 	the	beginning 	of	the	
pandemic. 	Total 	contributions 	included 		
$3	million 	from 	Citi	employees 	to	date. 	Citi	
and	the	Citi	Foundation 	provided 	support 	
to	organizations 	—	small 	and	large 	—	all	
around 	the	world: 	food 	donations 	and	meal 	
kits	to	help	people 	facing 	food 	insecurity; 	
support 	for	housing 	stability 	loans; 	emer -
gency 	child 	care	programs; 	medical 	and	
personal 	protective 	equipment; 	COVID-19 	
screening 	and	testing 	funds, 	and	more. 		
In	India, 	as	cases 	surged 	in	the	spring 	
of	2021, 	Citi	pledged 	$27	million 	over	
three 	years 	toward 	recovery 	and	relief 	
efforts. 	Of	the	total 	pledged, 	$10	million 	
was	allocated 	immediately 	toward 	the	
procurement 	of	oxygen 	supplies 	and	
other 	equipment 	for	frontline 	healthcare 	
workers. 	The	funds 	also	went 	toward 	food 	
and	hygiene 	supplies 	for	approximately 	
200,000 	l ow-income 	f amilies.
In	Asia, 	the	Citi	Foundation’s 	grant 	to	
the	Resilient 	Cities 	Network 	supports 	
small- 	and	medium-sized 	businesses 	
while 	advancing 	the	recovery 	of	selected 	
cities 	in	the	region. 	The	Catalyzing 	City	
Resilience 	Solutions 	(CCRS) 	program 	is	
working 	with	municipal 	governments 	to	
help	local 	economies 	recover 	from 	the	pandemic 	by	identifying 	critical 	small- 	and	
medium-sized 	enterprises 	(SME) 	and	
empowering 	them 	to	create 	and	scale 	
urban 	solutions 	that	will	enable 	greater 	
resilience. 	CCRS 	is	structured 	to	include 	
an	initial 	assessment 	phase 	where 	cities 	
can	assess 	the	impact 	of	the	pandemic 	
on	a	particular 	sector 	and	local 	economy; 	
an	accelerator 	phase 	where 	cities 	and	the	
selected 	SME	sector 	co-create 	solutions 	
that	address 	critical 	resiliency 	challenges; 	
and	a	pilot	project 	phase 	to	demonstrate 	
the	potential 	of	the	selected 	solution. 	
The	participating 	city	of	Melaka, 	Malaysia, 	
for	example, 	is	exploring 	how	to	support 	
the	SME	ecosystem 	along 	the	Melaka 	
riverfront, 	which 	was	especially 	affected 	
by	a	drop 	in	tourism. 	The	assessment 	
phase 	revealed 	that	SMEs 	in	the	area	are	
facing 	gaps 	in	knowledge 	and	capacity 	to	
rebuild 	from 	the	pandemic 	and	that	there 	
is	a	lack	of	stakeholder 	communication 	to	
deliver 	on	resilience 	initiatives. 	Based 	on	
these 	findings, 	Melaka 	will	launch 	and	test	
a	p latform 	t o 	i ncrease 	c ollaboration 	a mong 	
key	stakeholders 	through 	joint	trainings 	
and	problem-solving 	sessions 	for	govern -
ment 	officials 	and	local 	entrepreneurs.In	the	United 	States, 	the	Citi	Foundation 	
announced 	a	$25	million 	investment 	to	
be	distributed 	to	nonprofit 	organizations 	
that	provide 	technical 	assistance 	to	
minority-owned 	b usinesses 	n avigating 	
the	continued 	economic 	impacts 	of	the	
pandemic. 	The	50	grant 	recipients ,	which 	
each 	received 	$500,000 	in	unrestricted 	
support, 	are	local, 	community-based 	
change 	agents 	that	have 	the	expertise, 	
experience 	and	relationships 	to	provide 	
tailored, 	on-the-ground 	support 	for	
affected 	businesses 	and	the	communities 	
they	serve.
In	addition, 	Citi	deepened 	our	relationship 	
with	No	Kid	Hungry, 	an	organization 	
working 	to	end	childhood 	hunger 	in	the	
United 	States, 	to	help	address 	the	ongoing 	
issue 	of	food 	insecurity 	during 	COVID-19. 	
In	2021, 	we	provided 	$2.8 	million 	in	new	
funding 	to	support 	various 	campaigns 	
aimed 	at	helping 	the	rapid 	response 	to	
school 	and	community 	needs 	in	New	York 	
City.	Learn 	more 	about 	our	work 	with	No	
Kid	Hungry .
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
72
Every year, Citi colleagues, alumni, partners, clients, family 
and friends come together to participate in Global Community 
Day, our annual flagship volunteer initiative to give back in the 
communities where we live and work. For the second year in 
a row, we adapted in 2021 to find new ways of volunteering in 
lieu of in-person events.
CITI VOLUNTEERS
ADDRESSING FOOD INSECURITY61,000+
Volunteer Engagements
37K+
Volunteer  
Hours  
95,000+
Meals, food boxes and canned goods 
packed and delivered by colleagues  Donated 2,500 books   
to children and teens  
in foster care
(United States)Fostered the leadership skills of 
138 girls through a tailor-made 
Junior Achievement Citi Women 
Leadership Award Program
(Spain)20,873 colleagues, friends, 
and family donated funds  
that provided over  
177,000 meals
(Mexico)More than 900 donations 
raised $112,000+ to  
support financially and  
socially disadvantaged youth 
(Singapore)700+
Activities81
Countries and 
Territories
10,000
Pounds of food collected across the  
United States
8,000+
Meals donated  through the WFP Freerice 
trivia game
1,800
Boxes of food given through U.S. Hunger Pack With a Purpose
5,000+
Colleagues donated  to hunger relief  
organizations
In 2021, we put a particular focus on food insecurity and supporting organizations 
dedicated to fighting the hunger crisis, including the United Nations World Food 
Programme (WFP) and U.S. Hunger.Global Community Day was a little different this year, 
but the impact we made was no less meaningful. From organizing food drives to mentoring young professionals, 
our colleagues donated their time and talent to our 
communities and demonstrated once again why Citi is  
a bank with brains and a bank with a soul.”
JANE FRASER, CEO OF CITI“Global Community Day Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
73
Vaccine Alliance Advisor
 
Back in October of 2020, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, appointed Citi as the sole financial advisor to the COVAX Facility, a global multilateral 
procurement mechanism created to provide fair and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines for every country in the world. The COVAX 
Facility developed a diversified, active vaccine portfolio management strategy to secure vaccine supply for all participating countries. 
Pooled procurement gave COVAX leverage to negotiate highly competitive prices, speedy deployment and better terms, especially for low- and middle-income countries. 
Since that appointment, Citi has been advising on credit, liquidity and operational and contractual risks, including planning and execution 
of mitigation strategies. The Facility is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and the World Health Organization.  
In September 2021, Citi, in conjunction with the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC), began providing a risk 
management solution to Gavi to enable the funding for COVID-19 vaccine purchases through the COVAX Facility.   
In another effort to support equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines, Citi and other leaders in the financial services sector joined CODE 
(RED) to help get vaccines and other vital defenses to hundreds of millions of people in the world’s poorest countries. Citi provided eligible U.S. credit card members with the option to donate their points to the CODE (RED) campaign. Citi also donated $250,000 to 
(RED)’s efforts.  
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
74
Affordable 	Housing
Citi finances affordable and 
workforce housing in low- and 
moderate-income urban and 
suburban areas in an effort to 
ease the affordable housing 
crisis in the United States. We 
offer a range of housing finance 
solutions, including construction 
lending, tax credit equity and 
permanent financing through our 
balance sheet.
Citi	Community 	Capital, 	the	bank 	unit	
through 	which 	we	finance 	all	types 	of	
affordable 	housing 	and	community 	devel -
opment 	projects, 	reported 	approximately 	
$5.64 	billion 	of	lending 	to	finance 	afford -
able	rental 	housing 	projects 	in	2021. 	In	
fact,	for	12	consecutive 	years, 	Citi	has	been 	
the	No.	1	affordable 	housing 	lender 	in	the	
United 	States, 	as	published 	by	Affordable 	
Housing 	F inance .	
At	Citi,	being 	a	leader 	in	the	affordable 	
housing 	industry 	does 	not	just	mean 	
making 	debt	and	equity 	capital 	available 	
to	expand 	the	U.S.	affordable 	housing 	
supply; 	it	also	means 	being 	an	innovator 	
and	market 	leader. 	Over 	the	past	several 	
years 	we	have 	worked 	with	our	clients 	to	
find	new	ways 	to	lower 	the	cost	of	building 	
housing 	a nd 	i ncrease 	t he 	su pply 	o f 	h ousing 	
for	our	most 	vulnerable 	populations. 	For	
example, 	Citi	was	among 	the	first	banks 	
to	provide 	construction 	loans 	to	projects 	
using 	modular, 	or	factory-built, 	housing. 	
In	2021, 	we	provided 	$19.6 	million 	in	total 	
financing 	for	Oatsie’s 	Place, 	a	new	modular 	
housing 	project 	in	Los	Angeles, 	where 	
45	of	46	apartments 	are	designated 	for	
homeless 	women. 	In	an	effort 	to	promote 	
long-term 	housing 	stability, 	eligible 	resi-
dents 	are	provided 	with	additional 	services 	
to	support 	their 	transitions 	from 	homeless -
ness 	to	permanent 	housing.Citi	also	recently 	provided 	a	$3.89 	million 	
forward 	commitment 	for	the	permanent 	
financing 	of	Hayu 	Tilixam, 	a	50-unit 	
apartment 	complex 	set	to	be	built	in	
Portland, 	Oregon. 	Through 	a	partnership 	
with	Community 	Development 	Partners 	
and	the	Native 	American 	Youth 	and	
Family 	Center, 	Hayu 	Tilixam 	will	provide 	a	
welcoming 	and	culturally 	sensitive 	home 	
for	Indigenous 	families 	and	youth. 	All	
units 	will	be	reserved 	for	residents 	with	
incomes 	between 	30% 	to	50% 	of	the	area	
median 	income, 	and	eight 	units 	will	be	
reserved 	for	formerly 	homeless 	residents. 	
Residents 	will	have 	access 	to	support 	
services, 	including 	housing 	stability 	
support, 	culturally-specific 	medical, 	
dental 	and	behavioral 	health 	services, 	
homeownership 	coaching 	and	more. 	Our	efforts 	around 	affordable 	housing 	are	
consistent 	with	our	pledge 	to	align 	commu -
nity	engagement 	with	SDG	target 	11.1,	
which 	includes 	providing 	access for all to 
adequate, safe and affordable housing 
and basic services .	
	SDG Goal 11:  Sustainable Cities and 
Communities
Initial rendering of the Hayu Tilixam development in Portland, Oregon.
Named #1 Affordable 
Housing Lender in 
the United States by 
Affordable Housing 
Finance for the 12th 
Consecutive YearContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
75
Affordable Housing Impact
$5.64B
Volume Lent for  
Affordable Housing
32,762
Total Units Financed1,546
Buildings Financed
204
Projects Closed
110
Clients Served28.8M  
Square feet$200M
Equity Invested in  
Affordable Housing
326 
Green buildings
15,819  Affordable  
(No other restriction)
8,673  Seniors
3,180  Rental Assistance 
Demonstration (RAD)1,574  Formerly homeless
488 Special needs
208 Veteran48 Rehab construction
107 New construction
33 Permanent financing
16 Acquisition
HOUSING TYPES34 
States144 
Cities
*	AMI	=	Area 	Median 	Income.2,820   
Moderate Income  
>80% AMI29,942  
Affordable  
<80% AMI*Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
76
Citi Bike Program 
The Citi Bike® program has been one of our longest-running and largest-scale efforts to enhance urban quality of 
life. In New York City, where transportation is the second-largest driver of greenhouse gas emissions, the program 
has reduced an estimated 130,000 tons of CO2e emissions* — or the equivalent of removing 30,000 vehicles from 
the road for one year. 
This program supports SDG 11 , which aims to make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and 
sustainable . The bike share program contributes to target 11.2 , which has several aims, including providing access 
to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all . 
*	Based 	on	methodology 	from 	a	study 	published 	in	The	I nternational
Journal 	of	Urban 	Policy 	and	Planning .	SDG Goal 11:  Sustainable Cities and CommunitiesJersey City
LAUNCHED:  September 2015 
TRIPS SINCE LAUNCH:  2.2M 
MILES TRAVELED:  2.8M 
ANNUAL MEMBERS:  2KMiami
LAUNCHED:  December 2014 
TRIPS SINCE LAUNCH:  11M 
MILES TRAVELED:  33M 
ANNUAL MEMBERS:  6KNew York City
LAUNCHED:  May 2013 
TRIPS SINCE LAUNCH:  138M 
MILES TRAVELED:  247M  
ANNUAL MEMBERS:  164KContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
77
Strategic 	Philanthropy
Through strategic grant-making 
efforts, the Citi Foundation 
promotes economic progress in 
low-income communities around 
the world, focusing in particular 
on programs that increase 
financial inclusion, catalyze job 
opportunities for youth, and 
reimagine approaches to building 
economically vibrant communities. The	Citi	Foundation’s 	“More 	than 	
Philanthropy” 	approach 	leverages 	the	
expertise 	of	Citi	and	its	people 	to	fulfill 	our	
mission 	and	drive 	thought 	leadership 	and	
innovation.
Pathways 	to	Progress, 	one	of	Citi	and	the	
Citi	Foundation’s 	flagship 	initiatives, 	aims 	
to	equip 	young 	people 	—	particularly 	those 	
from 	underserved 	communities 	—	with	the	
skills 	and	networks 	they	need 	to	succeed 	in	
today’s 	rapidly 	changing 	economy.Between 	the	program’s 	launch 	in	2014 	
and	the	end	of	2021, 	the	Citi	Foundation 	
invested 	more 	than 	$275 	million 	in	work -
force 	preparation 	globally. 		
Through 	the	Pathways 	to	Progress 	initia -
tive,	Citi	and	the	Citi	Foundation 	support 	
SDG target 8.6 ,	which 	aims 	to	substan -
tially reduce the proportion of youth not 
in employment, education or training .		
SDG Goal 8:  Decent Work and Economic  
Pathways to Progress
Europe, Middle East and Africa  
PARTNER: PresenTense
PROGRAM: Hamakpetza
GEOGRAPHY: Israel
Through the Ha makpetza program, Citi Foundation 
and PresenTense support young members of 
the LGBTQ+ community in partnership with 
the Jerusalem Open House for Pride and Tolerance. This first-of-its-kind 
entrepreneurship program provides participants with guidance and mentorship 
from leading business experts and exposure to successful global and local tech companies, connecting them with the resources they need to develop their entrepreneurial ventures.
Asia Pacific
PARTNER: Philippine Business for Education
PROGRAM: First Future 2.0 Program 
GEOGRAPHY: Philippines 
The First Future 2.0 P rogram aims to train entry-
level employees, particularly those with a K-12 diploma, to progress in the workplace and land 
meaningful jobs in the areas of information technology, business process 
outsourcing, finance and retail. Last year, in partnership with the Technical 
Education and Skills Development Authority and University of the Philippines – Open University, the program helped more than 1,000 youth develop their professional skill sets through leadership and management courses, as well as technical trainings to improve customer service skills.
North America
PARTNER: Rise Asset Development
PROGRAM: EnterpRISEing Youth+
GEOGRAPHY: Canada
In Canada, Citi Foun dation works with Rise Asset 
Development to support young people experiencing mental health and other challenges, offering them 
opportunities to explore jobs and careers outside of the traditional corporate 
sector. Through the EnterpRISEing Youth+ program, Canadian youth can 
access a flexible online learning platform with virtual business coaching and peer support, helping them to develop their entrepreneurial skills and improve their professional, personal and financial well-being. With over 60% of participants being young people of color, the program aims to help empower the next generation of diverse entrepreneurs in Canada.
Latin America and the Caribbean
PARTNER: Organization of  
American States
PROGRAM: Creating a Career Path  
in Cyber SecurityGEOGRAPHY: 
Argentina, Colombia,   
Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Peru
Through the Creating a Career Path in Cy ber 
Security initiative, the Citi Foundation and the Organization of American 
States are preparing youth in Latin America for in-demand, high-paying jobs in the technology sector. In 2021, the partnership empowered more than 
200 youth across the region, providing them with the training needed to be 
certified as cybersecurity experts and connecting them to job opportunities. In addition to training, select students are able to complete an apprenticeship program with the Computer Security Incident Response Team Americas. Program participants have gone on to create their own technology consulting businesses or find positions with government agencies.
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
78
COMMUNITY PROGRESS MAKERS
In 2015, the Citi Foundation launched its Community Progress Makers Initiative with a vision of empowering community 
leaders to grow their transformative impact through unrestricted, trust-based funding. That approach and support is 
more important than ever as the United States continues to address the root causes and impacts of income and wealth 
inequality.
In December 2021, the Foundation announced 50 nonprofit organizations as the newest recipients of unrestricted grants 
to advance social and economic opportunity for underserved communities. The $25 million grant initiative supports 
visionary organizations that are working to connect low-income communities and communities of color to greater social and economic opportunity in six cities: Chicago, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, San Francisco and Washington, D.C. Each 
Community Progress Maker will receive an unrestricted grant of $500,000 and access to technical assistance and a 
facilitated supportive learning community.
The recipients are working on a range of social issues, including the expansion of affordable housing and access, 
environmental sustainability, economic development, financial health and wellness, and workforce readiness/high-quality 
jobs. The Foundation will provide a supportive community network through which these organizations can connect to learn from each other, share best practices and strengthen their roles as social change agents. As part of the initiative, 
the Citi Foundation is engaging longtime grantee Urban Institute to provide technical assistance to the cohort, helping to 
measure their impact and track their progress.
According to a recent report from Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions , there is a growing need for multiyear, 
unrestricted funding, which empowers nonprofits to invest in the financial sustainability of their organization and gives 
them the flexibility to adapt to evolving challenges. This kind of philanthropic support is even more urgent as local communities continue to face complex challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Harlem Stage is a performing arts center that is using support from the Citi Foundation to help bridge Harlem’s cultural legacy to 
contemporary artists of color.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
79
In This Section
81	Return 	to	Office 	and	the	Future 	of	Work
83	Diversity, 	Equity 	&	Inclusion
97	Using 	Our	Corporate 	Voice 	to	Drive 	Change
99	 Employment 	DataTalent 	and	
	 Diversity, 	Equity 		
	 	 &	InclusionContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT 80Return 	to	Office 	and	the	Future 		
of	Work
If	the	pandemic 	taught 	us	anything 	from 	
an	employee 	wellness 	perspective, 	it	was	
the	value 	of	flexibility. 	As	the	situation 	
surrounding 	the	virus 	continued 	to	evolve, 	
we	focused 	on	how	we	could 	bring 	our	
colleagues 	safely 	back 	to	the	office. 	At	the	
same 	time, 	COVID-19 	opened 	our	minds 	to	
new	ways 	of	working. 	While 	we	know 	there 	
are	enormous 	benefits 	to	being 	together 	
in	person, 	we	saw	just	how	productive 	
and	effective 	remote 	work 	could 	be.	We	
recognized 	that	we	couldn’t 	go	back 	to	
the	way	things 	were 	and	that	we	had	to	
adapt 	to	new	realities. 	After 	coming 	to	
understand 	just	how	important 	flexibility 	
is	to	our	current 	and	future 	success 	as	a	
firm, 	we	became 	the	first	major 	U.S.	bank 	
to	publicly 	embrace 	a	hybrid 	model 	of	work 	
for	our	colleagues 	moving 	forward. 	
As	vaccinations 	became 	widely 	available 	
in	the	United 	States, 	United 	Kingdom 	and	
other 	parts 	of	the	world, 	and	where 	the	
data	told	us	it	was	safe	to	do	so,	we	began 	
to	bring 	colleagues 	back 	to	the	office 	in	
a	hybrid 	model 	—	with	a	minimum 	of	two	
days 	per	week 	in	person 	and	a	few	days 	
from 	home. 	Colleagues 	in	more 	than 	30	
locations 	across 	the	U.S.	returned 	to	the	
office 	in	2021. 	We	required 	colleagues 	
returning 	to	those 	sites 	to	be	vaccinated 	against 	COVID-19, 	wear 	masks 	and	social 	
distance 	wherever 	possible. 	For	colleagues 	
working 	in	our	branches, 	we	required 	rapid 	
testing 	and	masks 	in	2021, 	and	vaccination 	
as	of	early 	2022. 	Understanding 	there 	
is	not	a	one-size-fits-all 	approach, 	we	
adjusted 	our	global 	return-to-office 	efforts 	
region 	by	region, 	based 	on	local 	data, 	
vaccine 	availability 	and	country 	mandates.
Equally 	i mportant, 	w e 	c ommunicated 	
regularly 	a nd 	c onsistently 	w ith 	o ur 	
colleagues 	— 	s ending 	m essages 	f rom 	o ur 	
CEO	a nd 	s enior 	l eaders 	t o 	k eep 	p eople 	
informed 	o f 	o ur 	p lans 	t o 	r eturn 	t o 	t he 	
office 	a nd 	e quipping 	o ur 	m anagers 	w ith 	
resources 	a nd 	i nformation 	s o 	t hat 	t hey, 	i n 	
turn, 	c ould 	e ffectively 	su pport 	t heir 	t eams 	
and	a nswer 	q uestions.After 	working 	from 	home 	became 	the	
“new 	normal” 	in	early 	2020, 	we	listened 	to	
feedback 	from 	our	employees 	and	enacted 	
policies 	to	help	ease 	the	blurring 	of	lines 	
between 	home 	and	work. 	In	response, 	in	
2021 	we	launched 	“Zoom-Free 	Fridays” 	
for	internal 	meetings 	to	combat 	the	well-
recognized 	fatigue 	from 	virtual 	meetings. 	
We	asked 	colleagues 	whenever 	they	could 	to	
designate 	noon 	to	1	p.m	in	local 	times 	as	an	
hour 	free	of	calls	and	meetings, 	as	well	as	
to	reduce 	hour-long 	meetings 	to	45	minutes 	
to	give	colleagues 	time	in	between 	sessions. 	
We	also	offered 	a	“Reset 	Day” 	in	May	for	
colleagues 	to	take	a	day	off	to	r echarge 	
and	added 	several 	new	benefits 	to	further 	
support 	work-life 	balance. 	
As the pandemic persisted 
through 2021, we continued to put 
the safety, health and well-being 
of our colleagues first. Early on 
in the health crisis, we developed 
principles that have consistently 
guided our decisions, including 
how we returned to the office. We 
focused on data, not dates, took a localized approach, and were transparent with colleagues that we would continue to learn and 
adapt as we go. Much of our atten -
tion was on creating a safe and welcoming workplace for today, 
while also pushing ourselves to 
envision new ways of working for  tomorrow — a model that is more 
flexible, agile and collaborative.  
Despite the ongoing challenges 
of the pandemic, we continued to 
make progress on our commit -
ments to fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace and using our 
corporate voice to drive change .Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
81
The Future of Work 
One	of	the	silver 	linings 	of	the	pandemic 	
was	that	our	colleagues 	and	teams 	learned 	
new	and	different 	ways 	of	working 	when 	
the	virus 	initially 	closed 	the	doors 	of	our	
offices. 	At	Citi,	we	felt	it	would 	be	a	missed 	
opportunity 	if	we	didn’t 	seize 	the	moment 	
to	reimagine 	the	workplace 	once 	the	
pandemic 	ease s.
Our	CEO, 	Jane 	Fraser, 	boldly 	embraced 	the	
desire 	to	be	a	bank 	with	brains 	and	a	soul, 	
and	to	break 	out	of	the	traditional 	mindset 	
that	required 	our	colleagues 	to	be	in	the	
office 	all	day,	every 	business 	day.	We	
established 	principles 	to	guide 	our	flexible, 	
future 	work 	model 	and	related 	ways 	of	working 	—	all	with	the	aim	to	drive 	collabora -
tion	and	meaningful 	connections, 	maximize 	
apprenticeship 	and	learning 	opportunities, 	
leverage 	technology 	to	our	advantage, 	
support 	colleague 	well-being 	and	belonging, 	
and	treat 	our	colleagues 	equitably. 	
We	announced 	this	future 	work 	model 	will	
take	effect 	after 	colleagues 	return 	to	the	
office, 	and	the	model 	will	provide 	hybrid, 	
remote 	and	resident 	designations 	for	
colleagues. 	Hybrid 	roles 	offer 	colleagues 	
the	flexibility 	to	work 	at	least 	three 	days 	
per	week 	in	the	office 	and	up	to	two	days 	
from 	home. 	The	majority 	of	Citi	employ -
ees	have 	been 	designated 	as	hybrid. 	
Remote 	roles 	may	be	performed 	100% 	
from 	outside 	the	office 	location. 	Resident 	roles 	are	jobs	that	cannot 	be	performed 	
remotely, 	such 	as	tellers 	in	our	branches 	
and	data	center 	employees.
In	2022, 	we	will	roll	out	the	future 	work 	
model 	and	survey 	employees 	throughout 	
the	early 	phases, 	using 	data	to	understand 	
what 	is	working 	—	and	what 	isn’t	—	so	we	
can	adapt 	where 	we	need 	to.	To	support 	
hybrid 	and	remote 	working, 	we	have 	been 	
introducing 	enhanced 	technology 	and	tools 	
that	enable 	us	to	be	more 	connected 	and	
collaborative, 	no	matter 	where 	we	work. 		
The Benefit of Time
Having an opportunity to recharge or step away from work can boost job 
productivity and morale. In 2021, we rolled out two new programs to do just 
that for those who have been employed by Citi for at least five years. 
Our “Refresh, Recharge, Reenergize” sabbatical program allows colleagues to 
take up to 12 weeks away from work to pursue personal interests or education, 
take extended travel or simply take time off. Employees will receive 25% of 
their base pay, do not have to provide an explanation or reason for taking a 
break, and are eligible for two sabbaticals during their full tenure at Citi. In 
the first year of the program, which was launched in 2021, more than 200 employees began to take sabbatical.
Julie Berg, Head of Product and Segment Analytics, U.S. Consumer Analytics, 
took advantage of the new program by driving coast-to-coast (and back again), traveling more than 10,000 miles across 24 states with her dog, Hank, as her 
companion. “My sabbatical was like a reboot on the computer with the ability to 
purge ‘cached’ information,” Berg said. “I worked with my team to prepare for time off for about 6 months to ensure all of the work was covered. I am forever 
grateful to them and my manager for holding the fort while I was away.” 
Our new, pro bono “Giving Back” program, meanwhile, allows employees to lend 
their time and talents at a charitable organization for two to four weeks while 
still receiving 100% of their Citi base pay. 
Julie Berg’s trusty companion, 
Hank, enjoying his cross-country 
sabbatical trip.Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
82
Diversity, 	Equity 	&	Inclusion
Our workforce of more than 
220,000 colleagues around 
the globe reflects the diverse 
backgrounds and perspectives 
of our clients and customers. 
This is why we ensure equity 
and inclusion are embedded in 
everything that we do. 
Across 	the	firm, 	there 	is	tremendous 	
momentum 	to	build 	on	our	efforts 	to	
create 	a	more 	diverse, 	equitable 	and	inclu -
sive	culture 	—	from 	our	pay	equity 	work 	
to	our	representation 	goals 	to	our	diverse 	
interview 	panels 	and	candidate 	slates 	to	
our	engagement 	with	Historically 	Black 	
Colleges 	and	Universities 	(HBCUs). 	We	
believe 	in	setting 	clear 	goals 	to	measure 	
our	progress 	and	holding 	ourselves 	
accountable 	to	building 	a	company 	
where 	the	best	talent 	wants 	to	work 	and	
where 	people 	of	all	races, 	gender, 	sexual 	orientation, 	disability 	status 	veteran 	status 	
or	ethnicity 	can	reach 	their 	full	potential.
Our	approach 	 to	 diversity, 	 equity 	 and	
inclusion 	( DEI) 	i sn’t 	l imited 	t o 	b roadening 	
the	representation 	 of	 those 	 working 	 within 	
the	top	 levels 	 of	 our	 own	 firm	 and	 creating 	
a	more 	 inclusive 	 environment. 	 We	 also	 look	
at	diversity 	 holistically, 	 thinking 	 of	 ways 	 to	
widen 	o ur 	i mpact 	f or 	o ur 	su ppliers, 	c lients, 	
customers 	 and	 communities 	 we	 serve. 	 Learn 	
about 	ou r 	Action for Racial Equity 	plan	 to	
help	c lose 	t he 	r acial 	w ealth 	g ap 	a nd 	i ncrease 	
economic 	m obility 	i n	t he	U nited 	S tates.
Pay Equity
We	continue 	 to	 disclose 	 our	 adjusted 	
and	u nadjusted 	( or 	“ra w”) 	p ay 	g aps 	f or	
both 	 women 	 and	 U.S.	 minorities 	 to	 hold	
ourselves 	 accountable 	 for	 making 	 progress. 	
The	a djusted 	p ay 	g ap 	i s 	a 	t rue 	m easure 	o f	
pay	equity, 	 or	 “like	 for	 like,” 	 that	 compares 	the	c ompensation 	o f	w omen 	t o	me n	a nd	
U.S.	min orities 	t o	n on-minorities 	w hen	
adjusting 	f or 	f actors 	su ch 	a s 	j ob 	fu nc-
tion,	t itle/level 	a nd 	g eography. 	T he 	ra w	
gap	m easures 	t he 	d ifference 	i n 	m edian 	
compensation 	w hen	w e	don ’t	a djust 	f or	a ny	
of	t he 	a forementioned 	f actors.
The	e xistence 	o f 	o ur 	ra w 	p ay 	g ap 	r eflects 	a	
need 	t o 	i ncrease 	r epresentation 	o f	w omen 	
and	U.S.	 minorities 	 in	 senior 	 and	 higher-
paying 	ro les. 	
Our	l atest 	r esults, 	r eleased 	i n 	e arly 	2 022,	
found 	t hat, 	o n 	a n 	a djusted 	b asis, 	w omen 	
globally 	a re 	p aid 	o n 	a verage 	m ore 	t han	
99% 	 of	 what 	 men	 are	 paid	 at	 Citi,	 and	
that	t here 	w as 	n o 	s tatistically 	si gnificant 	
difference 	i n	a djusted 	c ompensation 	
for	U .S. 	min orities 	a nd	n on-minorities. 	
Following 	 the	 review, 	 appropriate 	 pay	
adjustments 	 were 	 made 	 as	 part	 of	 Citi’s 	
2021 	c ompensation 	c ycle.
The Interconnected Nature of Pay Gaps and Representation Goals
Citi was the first company to disclose adj usted pay results, and in 2019 we became one of the first companies to disclose our unadjusted or “raw” pay 
gaps for both women and U.S. minorities. Being transparent about our median pay helped us achieve our firm-wide, aspirational representation goals in 
2021. By increasing representation of women and U.S. minorities in higher-compensated roles, we can continue to work toward closing the raw pay gaps.
MEDIAN PAY
Women vs. MenINCREASED  
REPRESENTATION
of women  
and U.S.  
minorities  
in higher- 
compensated  
roles to help  
close the raw  
pay gaps74%
202174%
202073%
2019 201871%
U.S. Minorities vs.
U.S. Non-Minorities93%
201894%
201994%
202096%
2021FIRM-WIDE  
ASPIRATIONAL  
REPRESENTATION  
GOALS
37%40.6 %
2018 20218.1%6%
2018 2021
Mid- and senio r- 
level female talent 
globallyExceeding  
40% goal
Exceeding  
8% goal
Mid- and senior- 
level Black talent  
(U.S. only)Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
83
Citi’s 	2021 	raw	gap	analysis 	showed 	that	
the	median 	pay	for	women 	globally 	is	
74%	of	the	median 	for	men, 	similar 	to	
2020 	and	up	from 	73% 	in	2019 	and	71%	in	
2018; 	the	median 	pay	for	U.S.	minorities 	
was	more 	than 	96% 	of	the	median 	for	
non-minorities, 	which 	is	up	from 	just	
under 	94% 	in	2020, 	94% 	in	2019 	and	
93% 	in	2018. 	Continuing 	to	reduce 	our	
raw	pay	gap	requires 	that	we	increase 	
representation 	of	women 	and	U.S.	
minorities 	in	senior 	roles 	across 	the	firm. 	
These 	pay	equity 	reviews 	represent 	
a	“moment 	in	time” 	snapshot 	of	our	
employee 	base, 	which 	is	constantly 	chang -
ing	as	people 	come 	in	and	out	of	the	firm, 	
as	colleagues 	are	promoted 	and	as	market 	
dynamics 	change. 	We’re 	continuing 	to	
innovate 	how	we	recruit 	and	develop 	talent 	
and	to	use	data	more 	effectively 	to	help	us	
increase 	diversity 	at	more 	senior 	levels 	at	
Citi.	Our	philosophy 	is	that	every 	member 	
of	Citi’s 	team 	is	responsible 	for	progress 	
in	making 	Citi	an	even 	more 	inclusive 	and	
equitable 	workplace. 	
Citi	collaborated 	with	The	Female 	Quotient, 	
a	women-owned 	business 	dedicated 	to	
advancing 	equality 	in	the	workplace, 	to	
develop 	a	free	digital 	tool	that	provides 	
companies 	with	a	snapshot 	of	their 	raw	
pay	gap.	We	view	it	as	a	way	to	further 	
equity 	across 	all	types 	of	companies 	and	
see	it	as	a	concrete 	measure 	to	increase 	
diversity 	more 	broadly. 	For	more 	informa -
tion,	v isit 	The	F emale 	Q uotient’s 	A dvancing 	
Equality 	CalculatorTM.	
Representation Goals
In	2018, 	we	set	aspirational 	representa -
tion	goals 	to	increase 	women 	leadership 	
globally 	and	Black 	leadership 	in	the	United 	
States 	at	the	firm	by	the	end	of	2021. 	We	
are	pleased 	to	share 	that	Citi	exceeded 	
these 	goals. 	Globally, 	we	increased 	representation 	at	the	Assistant 	Vice	
President 	to	Managing 	Director 	levels 	for	
women 	to	40.6% 	(up	from 	37% 	in	2018), 	
and	in	the	United 	States 	we	increased 	
Black 	representation 	for	those 	same 	
job	levels 	to	8.1% 	(up	from 	6%	in	2018). 	
Additionally, 	when 	we	include 	colleagues 	in	
the	United 	States 	who	self-identify 	as	two	
or	more 	races, 	Black 	representation 	at	the	
same 	job	levels 	increased 	to	9.1%.
Our	commitment 	 doesn’t 	 stop	 here, 	 and	 we	
recognize 	 there’s 	 still	 work 	 to	 do	 to	 build 	 a	
more 	d iverse, 	e quitable 	a nd 	i nclusive 	fi rm.	
We	will	 build 	 and	 expand 	 on	 our	 representa -
tion	g oals 	i n 	t he 	fu ture 	a nd 	w ill 	c ontinue 	t o	
be	t ransparent 	w hile 	h olding 	o urselves 	
accountable. 	D iversity, 	e quity 	a nd 	i nclusion 	
factors, 	in cluding 	t he	r epresentation 	o f	
women 	a nd 	r acial/ethnic 	m inorities, 	c ontinue 	
to	b e 	i ncluded 	i n 	s enior 	e xecutives’ 	s core-
cards. 	L earn 	m ore 	i n 	t he 	ESG	at	 Citi	section. 	
Pipeline 	analyses 	help	us	assess 	the	avail -
ability 	and	flow	of	diverse 	talent 	at	Citi	and	
how	we	can	achieve 	better 	representation 	
among 	women 	and	racial/ethnic 	minori -
ties.	Such 	analyses 	also	play	an	important 	
role	in	succession 	planning 	at	Citi,	ensuring 	
that	we	have 	diversity 	of	employees 	who	
are	ready 	for	promotion 	now, 	and	that	we	
have 	appropriate 	development 	plans 	for	
those 	who	would 	be	ready 	for	promotion 	
in	several 	years. 	Intentionality 	in	talent 	
development 	is	essential 	if	we’re 	going 	
to	elevate 	more 	women 	and	racial/ethnic 	
minorities 	to	high-level 	positions 	at	Citi	—	
and	across 	our	industry 	as	a	whole. 	
According 	to	McKinsey 	&	Company, 	there’s 	
a	strong 	business 	case 	for	gender 	and	
racial 	diversity 	in	corporate 	leadership, 	
with	the	most 	diverse 	companies 	outper -
forming 	their 	peers 	on	profitability. 	A	
report 	issued 	by	McKinsey1	in	2020 	found 	
that	companies 	in	the	top	quartile 	for	
gender 	diversity 	on	executive 	teams 	were 	25% 	more 	likely 	to	have 	above-average 	
profitability 	than 	companies 	in	the	fourth 	
quartile. 	That’s 	up	from 	21%	in	2017 	and	
15%	in	2014. 	
Our	representation 	goals, 	as	well	as	other 	
work 	we	are	doing 	around 	gender 	equality 	
in	the	workplace, 	directly 	contribute 	to	
SDG 5 	in	support 	of	gender equality 
and empowering all women and girls .	
Specifically, 	we	are	enabling 	progress 	
toward 	target 5.5 ,	which 	aims 	to	ensure 
women’s full and effective participation 
and equal opportunities for leadership at 
all levels of decision-making in political, 
economic and public life .	
SDG Goal 5:  Gender Equality 
	
Read 	how	we’re 	supporting 	minority- 		
and	women-owned 	businesses 	in	our	
supply 	chain .
1.	McKinsey 	&	Company, 	“Diversity 	Wins: 	How	Inclusion 	Matters ”	May	2020. 		Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
84
A Roadmap for Black Equity
In November 2021, we announced our participation in the Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT) Black Equity at Work 
Certification  — a first-of-its-kind standard and roadmap for employers that want to achieve Black equity internally while support -
ing Black equity in society. Citi was the first major Wall Street bank to sign on. Our participation complements our Action for 
Racial Equity  efforts, including our commitment to conduct a third-party racial equity audit. (Learn more in the Equitable and  
Resilient Communities section.) 
MLT’s unique accreditation program calls on corporations to take a stand for Black equity and provides a critical resource 
for employers to make progress toward their Black equity goals. Through our participation in this program, Citi will receive MLT’s expertise, counsel and feedback on our internal Black equity initiatives and practices, including how we can increase 
Black representation, drive equal pay and invest in Black equity causes. The validation process will help Citi develop a robust, 
comprehensive plan that will enable us to achieve a Black Equity at Work Certification in one to three years.
DIVERSITY AT THE 
EXECUTIVE LEVEL
Gender equity is something we 
demonstrate from the very top 
of our organization. Jane Fraser 
is our first woman CEO — and was the first woman to lead a 
major Wall Street bank. Based 
on existing self-identification data, five (29%) of our 17-person 
Executive Management Team 
are women and six (35%) are racially/ethnically diverse. As 
of April 25, 2022, eight (53%) 
of the 15 members of our Board of Directors are women and 
three (20%) are racial/ethnic 
minorities. Citi was among the first financial services firms  
to achieve gender parity on  
its Board.
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
85
Recruit, Retain and 
Promote
We	are	 committed 	 to	 continue 	 building 	 a	
team 	 that	 is	 inclusive 	 and	 representative 	
of	our	 customers 	 and	 clients. 	 To	 make 	
progress, 	 we	 have 	 been 	 evolving 	 the	 way	
we	bring 	 new	 colleagues 	 into	 Citi,	 including 	
accelerating 	 the	 use	 of	 diverse 	 slates 	 in	 our	
recruiting 	 and	 deepening 	 our	 capabilities 	 to	
measure 	o ur 	su ccess.
In	2021, 	 we	 expanded 	 the	 use	 of	 diverse 	
slates 	 in	 our	 recruiting 	 to	 have 	 at	 least 	 two	
women 	 and/or 	 U.S.	 minorities 	 in	 our	 inter -
views 	 for	 U.S.	 hires 	 and	 at	 least 	 two	 women 	
in	our	 interviews 	 for	 global 	 hires. 	 These 	
include 	 candidates 	 at	 various 	 senior 	 levels, 	
from 	 Assistant 	 Vice	 President 	 to	 Managing 	
Director. 	 As	 of	 December, 	 nearly 	 75% 	 of	
roles 	 that	 were 	 posted 	 globally 	 included 	 a	
diverse 	 slate 	 of	 candidates 	 with	 at	 least 	 two	
women 	 and/or 	 two	 U.S.	 minorities. 	 In	 2021, 	
we	launched 	 a	 Diversity 	 Sourcing 	 team 	 in	
the	United 	 States 	 to	 consistently 	 identify 	
diverse 	 talent 	 in	 the	 marketplace 	 and	
accelerate 	 our	 hiring 	 of	 diverse 	 talent. 			
We	have 	 expanded 	 engagement 	 with	 exter -
nal	p artners, 	i ncluding 	di versity 	p rofessional 	
organizations. 	T hese 	r elationships 	h ave	
enhanced 	 our	 ability 	 to	 attract 	 and	 hire	 mid-	
to	s enior-level 	t alent 	de monstrating 	C iti’s	
inclusive 	cu lture. 	Campus Recruiting 
Our	campus 	recruiting 	program 	is	another 	
important 	way	for	us	to	diversify 	our	
employee 	base, 	and	we	have 	a	robust 	
pipeline 	of	talent 	from 	HBCUs 	and	other 	
leading 	universities. 	
	•Our	Citi® University Partnerships 
in Innovation & Discovery (CUPID) 
Program 	enables 	us	to	accelerate 	inno-
vation 	projects 	across 	Citi	by	engaging 	
diverse 	students 	and	developing 	a	
robust, 	diverse 	pipeline 	of	talent 	from 	
leading 	universities 	(see	callout 	above).
	•In	2021, 	we	held	our	third 	annual 	
HBCU Innovation and Leadership 
Symposium ,	which 	brought 	together 	42	first- 	and	second-year 	students 	
(58% 	first	years 	and	32% 	sophomores) 	
from 	15	HBCUs 	for	an	introductory, 	
virtual 	experience 	focused 	on	helping 	
them 	understand 	financial 	services, 	
gain	technical 	skills 	and	kick	off	the	
career-planning 	process. 	While 	we	
would 	like	the	students 	to	consider 	
the	possibility 	of	a	future 	with	Citi,	our	
primary 	goal	is	to	provide 	them 	with	
helpful 	tools 	on	their 	path	to	profes -
sional 	success, 	without 	regard 	for	
industry 	or	profession. 	
	•Our	Early Insights Programs 	for	
college 	students 	in	their 	first	and	
second 	years 	of	undergraduate 	studies 	
are	focused 	on	identifying, 	mentoring 	
and	hiring 	top	diverse 	talent 	for	
summer 	analyst 	programs 	across 	the	
firm. 	These 	programs 	provide 	early 	
exposure 	to,	and	education 	around, 	
Citi’s 	businesses, 	technical 	training, 	
mentorship 	and	culture.
	•Our	Freshman Discovery Day 	is	a	
two-day 	exploratory 	program 	that	
helps 	educate 	underrepresented 	
minority 	college 	freshmen 	about 	the	
various 	roles 	in	financial 	services.MILITARY OFFICER LEADERSHIP PROGRAM 
Our Military Officer Leadership Program (MOLP) focuses on recruiting, 
developing, training and preparing transitioning service members for mid- to 
senior-level leadership roles at Citi. Over a two-year time period, candidates 
rotate three times, giving them a peer network of mentorship and support and a path to a successful career at Citi. “As a former combat veteran, with 
no direct experience in the financial industry, the MOLP was a great opportu -
nity,” said Rob Carter, a graduate of the program who has been with Citi for 
about five years. “The exposure to different businesses allowed me to find 
an area within the firm that leveraged the skills I developed during my time 
in the Army,” says Carter, Senior Vice President in Human Resources and one of the more than 2,400 U.S. employees who have disclosed their veteran 
status to us.CUPID BY THE NUMBERS
The Citi® University Partnerships in Innovation & Discovery (CUPID) Program 
embeds students from top universities in innovation activities across Citi. CUPID students — many of them underrepresented minorities — gain exposure 
to various aspects of our business and help us develop a robust, diverse pipeline of talent. Since we launched CUPID in 2017, we have:
• Engaged 3,600+  students and early career professionals
• Hired 202 CUPID participants
• Hired 43 HBCU students 
• Worked with 90  colleges and universities, including 38  HBCUs
• Hosted 40 events, such as hackathons, competitions and symposiumsContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
86
	•Our	Early Identification Program 	
focuses 	o n 	m entorship, 	in terview 		
preparation 	a nd	b est-in-class 	t raining 		
to	id entify 	di verse 	t alent 	f or	o ur		
summer 	a nalyst 	p rograms 	o ver 	a		
five-week 	p eriod.  
	•Sophomore Leadership Program 	
provides 	h ands-on 	w ork	e xperience, 	
mentorship, 	p eer	n etworking 	a nd 	
necessary 	s kills 	o ver 	a 	1 0-week 	su mmer 	
internship, 	t o	p rovide 	a	p ipeline 	in to	o ur 	
full-time 	a nalyst 	p rograms.
We	continue 	to	partner 	with	Jopwell, 	MLT, 	
SEO	and	WayUp, 	U.S.-based 	recruiting 	
platforms 	that	attract 	diverse 	students, 	
enabling 	our	recruiters 	to	communicate 	
and	engage 	with	students 	to	promote 	job	
opportunities. 	We	were 	also	honored 	to	
receive 	the	Diversity, 	Equity 	and	Inclusion 	
Award 	and	received 	an	Honorable 	Mention 	
for	Recruiting 	Excellence 	from 	the	National 	
Association 	of	Colleges 	and	Employers.
Developing Diverse Talent  
Hiring, 	promoting 	and	retaining 	more 	
women 	and	racial/ethnic 	minorities 	in	
senior, 	high-paying 	roles 	is	critical 	to	our	
success 	—	and	key	to	helping 	solve 	the	
two-pronged 	issue 	of	representation 	and	
pay	equity. 	Career 	development 	is	one	of	
our	top	priorities, 	and	we	promote 	from 	
within 	to	continue 	developing 	our	existing 	talent. 	In	2021, 	41% of open positions at 
Citi were filled with internal candidates. 		
“Owning 	My	Success” 	(OMS), 	for	example, 	
is	a	group 	coaching 	program 	for	Black 	
colleagues 	that	provides 	exposure 	to	
Citi’s 	senior 	leadership 	and	supports 	
professional 	and	personal 	development. 	
More 	than 	700	Black 	colleagues 	have 	participated 	in	OMS 	since 	the	program 	
began 	in	2018. 	Over 	the	course 	of	several 	
months, 	participants 	join	group 	coaching 	
circles, 	led	by	an	external 	executive 	coach 	
and	a	senior 	leader 	at	Citi.	Managers 	of	the	
participants 	also	take	part	in	group 	coach -
ing	to	better 	understand 	the	experience 	of	
Black 	colleagues 	in	the	workplace. 	Representation in Our Analyst and  
Associate Programs
ASPIRATIONAL GOAL:  50% women globally for our analyst and 
associate programs
ASPIRATIONAL GOAL:  30% Black and Hispanic/Latino in the 
United States for our analyst and associate programs Women representation in full-time 
analyst and associate roles
Black and Hispanic/Latino  
representation in full-time  
analyst and associate rolesWomen representation in the summer 
analyst and associate programs
Black and Hispanic/Latino 
representation in the summer 
analyst and associate programs18%
201945%
2019
25%
201947%
2019
29%
202152%
2021
32%
202152%
2021ACHIEVED ACHIEVED
ACHIEVED
CITI ON THE VINEYARD RECRUITMENT
Following a successful recruitment event in 2019, Citi held a second 
recruitment event on Martha’s Vineyard in Massachusetts for Black students 
to network with industry professionals and learn about potential career 
paths in financial services. In total, 20+ college students and 12 high school students attended the August 2021 event. Two of the college students were 
selected for our Early ID Leadership Program, and we’re inviting the high 
school students to return to future programming. CITI INTRODUCTION  
TO FINANCE
More than 1,000 people attended 
a virtual event in August geared 
toward mid- to senior-level Black 
talent. Our CFO Mark Mason and Chief Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion Officer Erika Irish Brown 
discussed their respective careers in finance. Several participants 
in the event interviewed for 
positions across the team.  Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
87
Citi	Personal 	Banking 	&	Wealth 	
Management 	and	our	Risk	and	Controls 	
group 	each 	piloted 	advocacy 	programs 	for	
underrepresented 	talent 	in	2021, 	pairing 	
participants 	with	senior 	leaders 	to	offer 	
career 	advice 	and	support. 	Black 	Leaders 	
for	Tomorrow, 	an	initiative 	within 	the	
Institutional 	Clients 	Group, 	also	offers 	an	
Advocacy 	program 	for	Black 	directors. 	
More 	than 	600	Black 	employees 	each 	year	
participate 	in	one	of	five	programs 	offered 	
through 	Black 	Leaders 	for	Tomorrow.
We	also	 launched 	 the	 Black 	 Managing 	
Director 	E ngagement 	i nitiative, 	a	q uar-
terly	 small 	 group 	 gathering 	 of	 Executive 	
Management 	 Team 	 members 	 and	 Black 	
Managing 	 Directors 	 who	 get	 to	 know 	 each 	
other, 	 share 	 ideas 	 on	 ways 	 to	 enhance 	 Citi’s 	
strategy 	a nd 	d iscuss 	o pportunities 	f or	
personal 	a nd 	p rofessional 	g rowth. 	
Our	R ole-Based 	A ssessment 	P rogram, 	
meanwhile, 	f ocuses 	on	b uilding 	a	r obust 	
succession 	p lan 	f or 	o ur 	B lack 	a nd 	w omen 	
leaders. 	T he 	c areer 	de velopment 	p rogram 	
includes 	 executive 	 assessment 	 and	 coach -
ing.	In	 2021, 	 31	 high-performing 	 Black 	 and	
women 	M anaging 	Di rectors 	a nd	Di rectors 	
were 	s elected 	f or 	t he 	p rogram. 	
We	p rovide 	a 	ra nge 	o f 	i nternal 	d evelopment 	
and	r otational 	p rograms 	f or 	l eaders 	a t 	a ll	
levels, 	 and	 we	 continued 	 to	 evolve 	 our	 learn -
ing	p rograms 	t o 	m eet 	n ew 	n eeds. 	O ur 	C iti	
Women’s 	L eadership 	D evelopment 	P rogram 	
was	held	 remotely 	 in	 2021, 	 bringing 	 together 	
a	g roup 	o f 	S enior 	V ice 	P residents 	a nd	
Directors 	f rom 	a round 	t he	w orld	t o	n etwork 	
and	d evelop 	l eadership 	ski lls.
In	Latin 	 America, 	 our	 Women’s 	 Virtual 	
Development 	P rogram 	c ontinues 	t o 	b e 	o ne	
of	our	 most 	 valued 	 in	 the	 region, 	 with	 more 	
than	 1,600 	 participants 	 in	 2021. 	 Across 	
Asia	P acific, 	7 80 	p articipants 	j oined 	o ne 	o f	
four	p rograms 	su pporting 	w omen 	a s 	t hey	
transition 	t o 	m ore 	s enior 	r oles. 	A nd 	i n 	E urope, 	
for	o ur 	“r everse 	m entoring” 	p rogram, 	w e	
paired 	s enior 	l eaders 	f rom	t he	r egion 	w ith	junior 	 mentors 	 from 	 the	 LGBTQ+ 	 community. 	
The	g oal 	o f 	t he 	p rogram, 	w hich 	w as 	su bse-
quently 	r olled 	o ut 	i n 	L atin 	A merica, 	A sia	
Pacific 	 and	 the	 United 	 States, 	 was	 to	 educate 	
the	mentees 	 about 	 the	 lived 	 experience 	 of	
their 	 LGBTQ+ 	 colleagues.
To	better 	support 	our	colleagues 	with	
disabilities, 	we	made 	enhancements 	to	
our	tools 	and	resources 	to	build 	a	more 	
inclusive 	workplace, 	including 	a	strong 	
team 	of	doctors, 	digital 	accessibility 	
experts 	and	accommodations 	specialists. 	
The	Global 	Consumer 	Technology 	team 	
launched 	a	partnership 	with	Neurodiverse 	
Solutions 	(formerly 	Autism2Work), 	and	in	
May	2021, 	the	team 	added 	five	contractors 	who	have 	autism 	spectrum 	disorder, 	or	
ASD, 	to	the	Global 	Consumer 	Bank 	ATM	
team 	based 	in	our	Florence, 	Kentucky, 	
ATM	Lab.	After 	seeing 	such 	strong 	results 	
in	just	six	months, 	the	Neurodiverse 	
Solutions 	program 	has	expanded 	across 	
Citi	with	12	contractors 	and	plans 	to	
grow 	the	team 	to	50	contractors 	by	
the	end	of	2022. 	Citi	recently 	began 	a	
partnership 	with	Disability:IN, 	a	global 	
nonprofit 	resource 	for	disability 	inclusion. 	
Disability:IN 	partners 	with	over	400	
companies 	worldwide 	with	the	vision 	to	
create 	an	inclusive 	global 	economy 	where 	
people 	with	disabilities 	participate 	fully	
and	meaningfully.PARTNERSHIP WITH THE EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP COUNCIL 
We invest in career development and planning for diverse talent through 
mentorship, networking, rotational programs and partnerships, such as our 
longstanding relationship with The Executive Leadership Council (ELC). In 
2021, we signed a million-dollar, multiyear agreement with ELC to enhance our investment in Black leadership and establish a cohesive development journey 
and continuum for Citi’s Black leaders. Through this partnership, Citi plans 
to help develop 850 mid- to senior-level employees over three years. The program is focused on Black colleagues at the Assistant Vice President through 
Managing Director levels who are tapped for further development at Citi. 
The intent is to invest in their continued professional growth and mobility by providing personalized coaching and greater exposure to senior-level leaders.
The Black Women at Citi Power Panel, presented by Black Women at Citi and Citi Inspires, 
was a successful hybrid event in 2021, with 3,300 colleagues tuning in. A panel of senior 
Black women at the firm discussed mental health, work/life balance, self-advocacy, building community, sponsorship and career development. Following the panel, our Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer and Global Head of Talent, Erika Irish Brown, hosted a fireside chat with Grammy-award winner Gladys Knight. Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
88
2021 Managing Director Diversity
Citi promotes a new class of Managing Directors (MD) each year. This is the highest officer level at Citi and is a testament to  
these individuals’ performance and commitment to living our Leadership Principles —Taking Ownership, Delivering With Pride  
and Succeeding Together — and instilling them throughout their teams and the entire firm.
For our 2021 class, we promoted 306 MDs, who are based in 30 countries and represent one of the largest and most diverse  
classes in recent years.
SUMMARY BY GEOGRAPHY
SUMMARY BY YEAR
The most women 
promoted in 
recent yearsHighest 
representation 
in recent years106
 in 20211
Veteran
36%70 in 2020
62 in 201949 in 2018
49 in 2017241 in 2020
220 in 2019
198 in 2018
178 in 201730countries  
in 2021
6
LGBTQ+UNITED STATES
53
racial/ethnic minorities
(out of the 150 promoted)35.3 %
of the new MD class 
was ra cially/ethnically 
diverse
19.3% 
29 ColleaguesASIAN
2.7% 
4 ColleaguesBLACK
14.0% 
21 ColleaguesHISPANIC/LATINO
Largest class in 
recent yearsAverage Tenure
12.4
  Years
306
Promotions in 202152  17 %ASIA PACIFIC18  5.9 %LATIN AMERICA86  28.1 %EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA150  49 %NORTH AMERICA
1
Person with  
a disabilityContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
89
Most Powerful Women in Banking Awards
Eight senior leaders at Citi were recognized among American Banker’s 2021 “Most Powerful Women” rankings. 
Citi was also recognized as one of the top teams overall.   
Most Powerful Women in Banking
Most Powerful Women to Watch
Most Powerful Women in FinanceINDIVIDUAL AWARDS TEAM AWARD
Jane Fraser
Chief Executive Officer
Mary McNiff
Chief Compliance Officer
Titi Cole
CEO, Legacy Franchises 
Gonca Latif-Schmitt
Managing Director and Head of Global 
Commercial Card Business
Julie Monaco
Global Head of Public Sector, Banking, Capital Markets and Advisory
Ida Liu
Global Head, Citi Private Bank
Maria Hackley
Global Co-Head Industrials, Banking, Capital  Markets and Advisory
Christina Mohr
Managing Director and Vice Chair, Global M&A
Standouts
Vanessa Colella*
Head of Citi Ventures and Citi Productivity,  and Chief Innovation Officer for CitigroupJane Fraser
Chief Executive Officer
Bola Oyesanya
Managing Director, Private Banker
Brandee McHale
Head of Citi Community Investing and Development and President of Citi Foundation
Bridget Fawcett
Global Co-Head of the Sustainability  & Corporate Transitions Investment Banking
Chinwe Esimai
Managing Director,  Global Marketing Integration
Donna McNamara
Global Head of Trade Product  Commercialization and ESG Strategy
Elinor Hoover 
Chair of Global Consumer & Retail Investment Banking
Elree Winnett Seelig
Head of ESG, Markets
Gina Nisbeth
Director, Citi Community Capital
Harlin Singh
Head of Sustainable Investing for  Private BankJessica Roos
Global Head of Business Services
Jo-Anne Kelly
Managing Director and Global Head  of Employment Law
Karen Peetz
Chief Administrative Officer
Mary McNiff
Chief Compliance Officer
Nikki Darden
Director, Global Consumer Marketing
Pam Habner
Head of U.S. Branded Cards and  Unsecured Lending
Sara Wechter
Global Head of Human Resources
Titi Cole
CEO, Legacy Franchises 
Val Smith
Chief Sustainability Officer
*	Collella 	has	since 	left	the	firm.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
90
Inclusion
Inclusive 	practices 	and	policies 	lead	to	
improved 	business 	performance 	and	a	
company 	culture 	where 	employees 	feel	
welcome, 	safe	and	respected, 	and	where 	
they	can	focus 	on	their 	work 	without 	fear	
of	prejudice 	or	discrimination. 	We	work 	
hard 	to	establish 	a	strong 	DEI	foundation 	
for	the	company 	at	all	levels, 	creating 	
paths 	for	the	next	generation 	of	leaders 	
across 	every 	dimension 	of	diversity.
We	want 	all	of	our	colleagues 	to	feel	
empowered 	to	share 	all	aspects 	of	their 	
identity 	so	that	we	may	continue 	to	honor 	
what 	makes 	them 	diverse 	and	unique 	while 	also	strengthening 	a	culture 	that	values 	
and	promotes 	diverse 	perspectives. 	
Core 	to	our	data-driven 	approach 	is	
gaining 	better 	understanding 	of	how	
our	employees 	self-identify 	so	that	we	
can	better 	meet 	their 	needs. 	In	2021 	
we	launched 	a	global 	Self-ID 	campaign 	
to	nearly 	190,000 	employees 	(90% 	
of	our	workforce), 	who	were 	invited 	to	
self-identify 	their 	race	and	ethnicity, 	
gender 	identities, 	sexual 	orientation, 	
disability 	status 	and	military 	status, 	as	
permissible 	by	local 	laws	and	regulations 	
in	the	46	countries 	we	survey. 	For	2021, 	
we	expanded 	the	sexual 	orientation 	
dimension 	from 	15	to	34	countries 	and	the	race	and	ethnicity 	dimension 	from 	18	to	
31	countries. 	Additionally, 	we	continued 	to	
encourage 	the	reporting 	of	multiple 	races/
ethnicities 	for	those 	employees 	who	self-
identify 	as	such 	by	enabling 	the	selection 	
of	specific 	races/ethnicities. 	We	achieved 	
a	response 	rate	of	nearly 	100% 	for	global 	
gender 	and	U.S.	race/ethnicity.
See	our	employment 	data	for	more 	infor -
mation 	about 	our	workforce 	composition.
Members of the Citi Women’s Network at the closing bell of the New York Stock Exchange marking the 2022 International Women’s Day.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
91
Our Employee Networks in Action: 2021
Our Employee Network chapters serve as local representatives of our Affinities. Initiated and led by colleagues at 
our work sites, the Networks offer professional development, mentoring, networking and community engagement opportunities to members and colleagues. Consistent with our inclusive culture, Employee Network chapters are open to all Citi employees, regardless of whether they identify with a particular Affinity. Each of our nine Affinities is co-led by a member of our CEO’s leadership team. The number of our global Employee Network chapters increased from 198 in 2020 to 226 in 2021, while the total number of unique members in the groups increased from 21,420 to 26,950 globally .
 The following are some examples of our colleagues’ experiences from participating in our Affinities.
I always feel my intersectionality 
being a woman, an Asian and an immigrant is celebrated at Citi, and my perspectives are valued by my co-workers. I received overwhelming support from our senior leaders when I first approached them with the idea to initiate an Asian Heritage Network in Canada. Working remotely and separated from families during the pandemic have been very challenging for many in the Asian communities, who experienced or witnessed race-based abuse, hate and even violence. Citi’s Affinity networks have created a safe space for us to share emotions and offer support to each other. Being able to support my community at work adds a sense of purpose and belonging for me.” In addition to learning even more about my own culture as a part of the Black Heritage Network, I have also been able to expand my network, increase my exposure to Citi leaders and focus on career development through many of the lessons learned from the 
network’s events and sessions.  This is also true regarding all of 
the employee networks sponsored by Citi.  Citi truly exemplifies 
a diverse, equitable and inclusive culture through the Employee Network program and through the act of investing in cultures and communities within and beyond our Citi walls.”
Asian Heritage Black Heritage
STELLA YU, TORONTO 
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, 
HUMAN RESOURCESKATRINA GERALD, CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, PERSONAL  BANKING & WEALTH MANAGEMENT
“ “
A veteran Citi employee, who is now my mentor, reached out to 
me when I was in college and helped me get my foot in the door at Citi. That kindness toward veterans really resonated with me, and I immediately began getting involved with Citi Salutes and North America Service Initiative groups. I started off small by taking on volunteer responsibilities such as our USO Bike Build and Thank You Card events, and with each new opportunity I was able to meet so many unique people who also wanted to help veterans. I am proud to serve as the Citi Salutes New York Chapter co-chair and always look forward to working with our other New York-based networks.” Citi Salutes®
GRAHAM LEWIS, NEW YORK 
ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT,  
INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS GROUP
“Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
92
Our Employee Networks in Action: 2021 (continued)
Citi Women Networks in Asia had a 
momentous year with many key initiatives and successful program launches. For example, here in China we launched a maternity buddy program that received overwhelmingly positive reviews from those who participated. We also partnered with other networks to lead November Gratitude Month, where we sent out 8,000 thank you cards to employees and staff, building on our already strong sense of community and showcasing our leadership principle of ‘We Succeed Together.’ Citi Women has brought tremendous value to my own experience and to Citi overall by creating an inclusive culture for women to thrive.” 
The Networks have the incredible mission to not only act upon the specific themes of each of the diversity groups, but also to expand the overall engagement and awareness among our population — creating an environment for empathy, connection and ‘call to action.’ In that sense, Families Matter provides us the amazing opportunity to work across Affinities: learning, supporting and acting together, especially in a moment when work, home and families are more intertwined than ever before. Understanding the realities and particularities of our diverse team and acting together with other Affinities allows us to support our Citi family.”I was originally approached to join London Disability Network in 2006 and found a fantastic group of folks looking to ensure that anyone with a disability, injury or illness felt that they had a voice. I went on to serve as co-chair for the London Disability Network on two occasions, where I believe we enhanced representation, engaged with senior management and weaved Inclusion into the business conversation. I am a firm believer that as an employee I need to set an example on how, with the right level of support from my amazing managers over the years, I was able to grow my career and begin to ask not what Citi can do for me, but what can I do for Citi and the disability community. I have been working with various groups and technology experts to raise the understanding on how assistive technology enables inclusion. By being myself, I have allowed my managers to be their very best for me, and together we can work on what we need to do to support 
our clients.”   
I have been with the firm for almost a decade, and I am really proud of how we have stepped up in recent years to strategize on diversity, equity and inclusion efforts to create an inclusive culture at Citi. Our colleagues who participated in Network initiatives continuously share feedback that they experience great value and learnings from our content. I am especially fond of sessions where safe spaces are created to speak up. Inviting people to talk about topics relating to diversity, equity and inclusion increases awareness so we can break down barriers and enable people to be comfortable with certain topics. This helps create an understanding of the role we can all play in supporting one another.”
Citi Women
Families MatterDisability
GenerationsLU SHI, CHINA 
MANAGING DIRECTOR, RISK
LUCIANA ZONZINI, BRAZIL 
MANAGING DIRECTOR,  
BANKING, CAPITAL,  MARKETS AND ADVISORY PATRICK MORAN, UNITED KINGDOM 
DIRECTOR, OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY  
NUR’I LIM, MALAYSIA 
VICE PRESIDENT, INDEPENDENT COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT“
““
“Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
93
Our Employee Networks in Action: 2021 (continued)
I raised my hand to be part of the 
Hispanic/Latino Heritage network shortly after joining Citi in 2018 as a Senior Executive Assistant. I hadn’t met many colleagues who looked like me in my office, and the Network has provided me with a sense of community. Working closely with our Hispanic/Latino Affinity leadership on a membership drive initiative, the group I began to work with brings co-chairs from all of our 11 chapters in the United States and United Kingdom together on a monthly cadence, where we exchange ideas collectively. This leadership role has allowed me to hone my public speaking and presentation skills, as well as pursue opportunities to develop a network of connections I wouldn’t have otherwise encountered. I’m certain it has prepared me for my role as a recently promoted Assistant Vice President.”The value I’ve gotten from the Pride Network is the ability to 
see not only tangible and measurable results from our network’s projects as we progressed, but also the positive and proactive feedback from folks who have benefited from our efforts. Hearing from both senior leaders and LGBTQ+ people on their beneficial experiences and how this has impacted their work lives has made all the difference. Being able to connect with colleagues from other regions, learn from each other and work together has been a great experience. Specifically, being able to lead the Citi SpeakOUT project with other colleagues from North America and Latin America has been one of the best experiences I’ve had at Citi. Providing access to opportunities for development, such as the Out & Equal Summit and the LGBTQ+ Development Program, are just some of the many ways we support one another. ” 
Hispanic/Latino 
Heritage Pride
ARLET BALTAZAR, CHICAGO 
ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT, 
MARKETING OPERATIONS,  PERSONAL BANKING & WEALTH MANAGEMENT JOSEPH HERNANDEZ, MEXICO 
VICE PRESIDENT, TRANSFORMATION  OPERATIONS
“ “
South Africa has a unique history rooted in racial inequities. The 
goal of the network is to create a safe space for employees to have open and transparent discussions on the topic of race without fear of retribution. The network is employee-led. Since launching in early 2021, it has already hosted several workshops and events with the goal of providing employees with the correct tools to assess and address situations involving racial matters.”Roots
MEGS NAIDU, SOUTH AFRICA 
VICE PRESIDENT, COMPLIANCE 
GOVERNANCE
“Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
94
Employee Network Listening Tour   
In 2021, we held our first ever “Voice of the People” listening tour to help us understand what our Affinities mean 
to our colleagues. More than 800 Citi employees attended in-person and virtual sessions to share their views on our Affinity Networks and to offer ideas about what we can do to make them more impactful. More than 80% of participants said they joined one of the Affinities for networking opportunities.
OVERVIEW
Goal
Learn about 
the DEI issues 
that are most 
important 
to you
KEY TAKEAWAYS
ADDITIONAL FEEDBACK: WHAT OUR COLLEAGUES ARE ASKING FOR4
Regions
82% 78% 68%10
Networks11
Sessions800
Colleagues
82%  cited 
learning from 
and supporting 
colleagues as 
their top reasons for joining Network78%  believe 
senior leaders are committed to advancing DEI across  
the firm68%  cited 
educating 
managers on DEI goals and senior 
leader advocacy 
as the top two ways Citi can create a more inclusive culture
SENIOR LEADERSHIP ROUNDTABLES AND QUARTERLY TOWNHALLS TO UNDERSTAND DEI STRATEGY
MORE MENTORSHIP/  
SPONSORSHIP OPPORTUNITIES
More diverse interview panels
Greater global  
connectivity
REPRESENTATION GOALS FOR MORE GROUPSMore visibility of  
self-identifying  
senior leaders
BETTER 
COMMUNICATION  
ON AFFINITY  
STRATEGYImproved 
alignment 
between 
networks 
and 
AffinitiesINCREASED 
MIDDLE  
MANAGEMENT  
SUPPORT  
FOR DEI  
INITIATIVES
Year-end performance analysis for diverse groupsContents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
95
Voice of the Employee
 
Our annual Voice of the Employee (VOE) survey provides valuable insights regarding employee engagement and perceptions about 
our firm — our successes as well as our pain points. In 2021, participation was high — 87% of colleagues globally responded. 
We heard employees are embracing the Leadership Principles we rolled out in March, with all three principles approaching 90% favorability. Overall, 91% of employees said they are proud to work for Citi and felt that our commitments to an ethical culture and 
diversity are strong.
Nearly 90% of employees said their managers promote diversity, equity and inclusion on their teams. But many colleagues are looking 
for their managers to provide greater support in their career development — a perennial area for improvement across the firm.
While colleagues gave us high marks for our response to COVID-19, employees shared they are feeling the strain of life during the 
pandemic and increased workloads. These feelings were especially acute among our women colleagues. Their responses have reaffirmed 
the importance of our efforts, and we will continue to address this feedback to help relieve stress, simplify our working processes, 
develop tools for collaboration and ensure that our managers continue to support their people. 
2021 Survey Highlights
LIVING OUR LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES
COVID-19 RESPONSE
Citi is effectively 
communicating its  
plans and response  
to COVID-19
91%92%
My team prioritized the work 
that helps Citi succeed
89%
My manager promotes diversity, 
equity and inclusion in our team
Diversity
2020 86%
2019 81%85%Engagement
2020 82%
2019 74%79%Ethical   
Culture
2020 91%
2019 89%91%Manager  
Effectiveness
2020 84%
2019 81%84 %We Take  
Ownership
88%We Deliver  
With Pride
89%We Succeed  
Together
86%
CORE INDICESContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
96
Using 	Our	Corporate 	Voice 		
to	Drive 	Change
At Citi, we believe we can use our 
power as a global bank to effect 
social change, and we continue 
to take a stand on a wide range 
of issues, such as racial and pay 
equity, immigration, gun violence 
and climate change. We also 
believe it’s important to speak 
up and speak out on issues that 
impact our colleagues.
For	e xample, 	i n 	t he 	U nited 	S tates 	i n 	2 021, 	
there 	w as 	a n 	a larming 	r ise 	i n 	b ills 	p roposed 	
at	t he 	s tate 	l evel 	t hat 	w ould 	s ingle 	o ut 	
LGBTQ+ 	i ndividuals 	f or	e xclusion 	o r	di ffer-
ential 	t reatment. 	L egislation 	p romoting 	
discrimination 	c ould	n egatively 	im pact	o ur	
colleagues 	a nd 	t heir 	f amilies, 	a s 	w ell 	a s 	o ur 	
clients, 	c ustomers 	a nd 	o ur 	b usiness. 	I n 	M ay, 	
Citi	s igned 	t he 	Human 	R ights 	C ampaign’s 	
Business 	S tatement 	O pposing 	An ti-LGBTQ+ 	
State 	L egislation ,	r eiterating 	o ur 	b elief 	
that	a ll 	p eople 	h ave 	a 	fu ndamental 	r ight 	
to	e quality 	a nd 	o ur 	o pposition 	t o 	h armful 	
legislation 	a imed 	a t 	r estricting 	t he 	a ccess 	
of	LGBTQ+ 	 people 	 in	 society. 		
Citi	has	a	long	history 	of	outspoken 	advo -
cacy 	for	the	LGBTQ+ 	community. 	In	2020, 	
Citi	became 	the	first	major 	bank 	to	provide 	
transgender 	and	nonbinary 	customers 	with	
the	ability 	to	have 	account 	profiles 	and	
credit 	cards 	that	match 	their 	chosen 	first	
name. 	Since 	the	initial 	launch, 	more 	than	
18,000 	consumers 	have 	updated 	their 	Citi	
U.S.	branded 	credit 	cards 	with	their 	chosen 	
name. 	Learn 	more 	in	the	Serving 	Our	
Customers 	and	Clients 	Responsibly 	s ection.
When 	members 	of	the	Asian 	American 	
and	Pacific 	Islander 	(AAPI) 	community 	
endured 	rising 	instances 	of	violence 	in	
response 	to	the	pandemic, 	our	Executive 	Management 	Team 	condemned 	the	xeno -
phobia 	while 	voicing 	support 	for	our	AAPI 	
colleagues 	and	the	broader 	community. 	
We	also	held	internal 	listening 	sessions 	
and	hosted 	community 	forums 	to	show 	our	
support 	for	our	employees. 	Watch 	a	public 	
service 	message 	we	produced. 	We	hosted 	
a	“Hollaback 	Bystander 	Intervention” 	
training, 	which 	is	designed 	to	provide 	
colleagues 	with	practical 	tactics 	on	how	to	
intervene 	in	a	safe	way	if	they	witness 	an	
incident 	in	public. 	In	2021, 	we	hosted 	three 	
sessions, 	and	more 	than 	500	colleagues 	
joined 	the	training. 	We	plan	to	host	addi-
tional 	sessions 	in	2022.
We	also	expanded 	our	partnership 	with	
Ascend, 	a	non-profit 	organization 	focused 	
on	professional 	development 	of	the	AAPI 	
community, 	and	sponsored 	the	Ascend 	National 	Convention 	week, 	which 	more 	
than 	200	colleagues 	attended. 			
Furthermore, 	Citi	was	one	of	many 	U.S.	
businesses 	that	condemned 	efforts 	in	
2021 	to	restrict 	voting 	access 	in	the	state 	
of	Georgia. 	We	opposed 	voting 	restriction 	
laws	because 	we	believed 	it	would 	“under -
mine 	the	ability 	of	Americans 	to	avail 	
themselves 	of	this	fundamental 	right.”For 17 consecutive years, Citi 
has received a perfect score on 
the Human Rights Campaign 
Foundation’s Corporate Equality 
Index, a national survey that 
benchmarks corporate policies 
and practices for LGBTQ+ 
workplace quality.MARKING HOLIDAYS OF SIGNIFICANCE
Starting in 2022, we have a new paid holiday for U.S. employees: Juneteenth 
Day, a federal holiday that marks the end of slavery. We also had the 
opportunity to be more inclusive and acknowledge Indigenous Peoples Day in 
addition to Columbus Day. In 2020, Citi implemented one additional floating holiday called Heritage Day, which employees can take at any time to honor a 
day of personal signficance.
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
97
Fair Employment Practices
We strive to maintain an environment in which development opportunities are 
widely available, where people are hired and advanced on their merits and where 
our employees treat each other with respect. We are fully committed to equal 
employment opportunities, fair employment practices and nondiscrimination. For more information, see the Human Rights section of this report, our Code of 
Conduct  and our website for policies around fair employment  and compensation . 
More information can also be found in the GRI Index of this report.
Members of our Pride Affinity ringing the bell at the New York Stock Exchange 
during Pride Month in June 2021. Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
98
Employment Data
TOTAL EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT
NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES EMPLOYEE TURNOVER EMPLOYEES BY GENDER IN THE U.S.EMPLOYEES BY GENDER
223,449
Total Employees
46,907
Total32,769
Total66,586**
Total220,975  
Full-Time  
 2,474  
Part-Time
46,050  
Full-Time  
 857 
Part-Time31,836  
Full-Time  
 933 
Part-Time34,993  
Women  
 31,574  
Men113,045  
Women  
 110,275  
Men223,449*
Total Employees
TOTAL EMPLOYEES BY REGION
*	129	people 	did	not	disclose.
**	19	people 	did	not	disclose.North America
68,827
Total Employees
11,102
Employee Turnover13,400
Employee HiresEurope, Middle East and Africa
32,703
Total Employees
3,974
Employee Turnover6,536
Employee Hires
Latin America
48,693
Total Employees
7,337
Employee Turnover11,589
Employee HiresAsia Pacific
73,226
Total Employees
10,356
Employee Turnover15,382
Employee HiresContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
99
Women  
Men66,586*
 TotalEmployment Data (continued)
Racial/Ethnic Composition of U.S. Employees
*	1,316 	people 	did	not	disclose 	race/ethnicity. 	
**	1	person 	identified 	as	Hispanic 	or	Latino 	but	did	not	disclose 	gender, 	and	1	person 	identified 	as	Two	or	More 	Races 	but	did	not	disclose 	gender. 	American Indian 
or Alaskan Native
105 | 73  Asian
5,446 | 6,916  
Black or African 
American
4,608  | 2,528  Hispanic or Latino**
6,934  | 5,067  
Two or More Races**
492 | 404  White
16,778  | 15,791  Native Hawaiian 
or Pacific Islander
80 | 46  Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
100
Citi 2021 Consolidated U.S. Employer Information Report (EEO-1)  
Table A
Advocacy Statement and Multiple Identity Breakdowns
While certain regulatory reports such as our EEO-1 filings will continue to require that each Citi colleague be designated as shown in Table A, our internal tracking has evolved to appropriately capture the reality of who our people are, as detailed on the following page in Table B.
Job Categories GenderHispanic 
or LatinoWhiteBlack or 
African 
AmericanNative 
Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
IslanderAsianAmerican 
Indian or 
Alaskan 
NativeMulti-
RacialTotal
Executive/Senior 
Officials and ManagersMale
Female
Subtotal6
6
1249
30
794
5
90
0
013
3
160
0
01
0
1117
First/Mid Officials  
and ManagersMale
Female
Subtotal886
817
1,7034,191
2,904
7,095346
431
7778
7
151,905
872
2,77714
10
2451
57
10812,499
ProfessionalsMale
Female
Subtotal1,892
1,882
3,7746,908
5,870
12,7781,230
1,465
2,69519
19
383,998
2,952
6,95033
20
53141
180
32126,609
TechniciansMale
Female
Subtotal47
27
7453
66
11925
10
3500
013
14
270
0
02
1
3258
Sales WorkersMale
Female
Subtotal1,118
1,208
2,3262,556
1,257
3,813271
324
59510
14
24820
1,019
1,8398
11
1958
44
1028,718
Administrative Support 
WorkersMale
Female
Subtotal1,226
3,160
4,3862,729
7,209
9,938688
2,513
3,20114
40
54328
751
1,07924
66
9065
198
26319,011
Craft WorkersMale
Female
Subtotal3
0
33
0
30
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
06
OperativesMale
Female
Subtotal0
0
02
4
60
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
06
Laborers and HelpersMale
Female
Subtotal0
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
00
Service WorkersMale
Female
Subtotal2
0
20
221
1
200
00
0
00
0
00
0
06
TotalMale
Female
Subtotal5,180
7,100
12,28016,491
17,342
33,8332,565
4,749
7,31451
80
1317,077
5,611
12,68879
107
186318
480
79867,230
Note: 	For	our	EEO-1 	U.S.	headcount, 	regulatory 	logic 	is	applied 	as	specified 	and	enforced 	by	the	U.S.	Department 	of	Labor’s 	Equal 	Employment 	Opportunity 	Commission 	(EEOC).Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
101
Multiple Identity Breakdowns  
Table B
Race/EthnicityTotal 
Hispanic or 
LatinoHispanic/ 
LatinoWhiteBlack or 
African 
AmericanNative 
Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
IslanderAsianAmerican 
Indian or 
Alaskan 
Native
Hispanic or Latino 6,214 5,979 5,147 554 55 146 312
Race/EthnicityHispanic or 
Latino in 
Combination 
with Other 
Race(s)White 
and Other 
Race(s)Black or 
African 
American 
and Other 
Race(s)Native 
Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
Islander 
and Other 
Race(s)Asian and 
Other 
Race(s)American 
Indian or 
Alaskan 
Native 
and Other 
Race(s)
Multi-Racial  
(or two or more races)5,979 562 319 66 318 174
Note: 	For	our	EEO-1 	U.S.	headcount, 	regulatory 	logic 	is	applied 	as	specified 	and	enforced 	by	the	U.S.	Department 	of	Labor’s 	Equal 	Employment 	Opportunity 	Commission 	(EEOC).Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
102
In This Section
104	 Our	Transformation
110	 Risk	Management
121	Serving 	Our	Customers 	and	Clients 	Responsibly
125	Human 	Rights
134	 Responsible 	SourcingRisk	Management 			 	 	
		and	Responsible 		 	 	 	
				BusinessContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT 103Our	Transformation
Through our transformation we 
are working to modernize and 
simplify the bank so that we can 
better manage risk, improve our 
service to customers and clients 
and make Citi an easier place to 
work. Through the modernization 
of our data infrastructure and 
operations, and by evolving our 
culture, we are strengthening 
our safety and soundness as a 
bank and improving our ability to compete in the digital age.
Transforming Our 
Risk and Control 
Environment
In	October 	2020, 	the	Federal 	Reserve 	
Board 	and	the	Office 	of	the	Comptroller 	
of	the	Currency 	issued 	consent 	orders 	to	
Citi	requiring 	improvements 	in	the	way	we	
manage 	enterprise-wide 	risk,	compliance, 	
data	and	internal 	controls. 	This, 	combined 	
with	an	increasingly 	competitive 	land-
scape 	and	our	clients’ 	acceleration 	toward 	
digital 	solutions 	through 	the	pandemic, 	
became 	the	catalyst 	for	Citi’s 	transforma -
tion	st rategy. 	
Citi	h as 	b een 	i n 	o peration 	f or 	m ore 	t han	
200	y ears. 	B ut 	o ur 	t ransformation 	i sn’t	
about 	 looking 	 back; 	 it’s	 about 	 looking 	
ahead, 	t o 	b ecome 	a n	e ven	st ronger 	ba nk	f or	
all	o ur 	s takeholders. 	T his 	t ransformation 	i s	
an	i nterconnected, 	en terprise-wide 	e ffort. 	
In	a ddition 	t o 	r emediating 	i ssues, 	w e 	a re	
addressing 	r oot 	c auses, 	s implifying 	t he 	w ay	
we	o perate 	a nd 	d oing 	s o 	m ore 	e ffectively. 	
We	a re 	r edesigning 	o ur 	k ey 	p rocesses 	f rom	
end	t o 	e nd, 	a utomating 	t hem 	a nd 	e nsuring 	
we	have 	 the	 proper 	 controls 	 in	 place 	 while 	
eliminating 	c omplexity. 	Governance and 
Leadership
Putting 	the	right 	teams 	and	governance 	in	
place 	is	critical 	to	creating 	consistency 	in	
our	approach 	across 	the	firm	and	driving 	
the	u ltimate 	su ccess 	o f 	o ur 	t ransformation.
Our	Transformation 	Steering 	Committee, 	
chaired 	by	our	CEO, 	sets	the	overall 	
direction 	for	our	transformation 	efforts 	
and	communicates 	progress 	to	our	Board 	
of	Directors, 	as	well	as	seeks 	input 	and	
feedback 	from 	the	Board. 	In	addition, 	
one	or	more 	members 	of	our	Executive 	
Management 	Team 	lead	program 	groups 	that	are	central 	to	our	transformation. 	To	
encourage 	en terprise-wide 	en gagement, 	
each 	of	these 	groups 	includes 	representa -
tion	from 	across 	our	businesses 	and	func-
tions. 	The	executives 	in	charge 	of	these 	
programs 	are	held	accountable 	for	their 	
group’s 	success, 	and	their 	compensation 	is	
linked 	to	achieving 	results.
Senior 	leaders 	are	setting 	the	tone 	for	
their 	teams, 	showing 	a	high	level 	of	
engagement 	with, 	and	commitment 	to,	our	
transformation 	activities. 	
OUR DATA GOVERNANCE PROGRAM 
Data quality is one of the areas of focus for our transformation. To lead this 
effort, we have established a Data Governance Program to elevate our data 
governance and to help drive necessary improvements to our technology and 
processes. Our goal is to make it easier to locate, collect and use the infor -
mation our colleagues need to do their jobs and mitigate risk.
In 2021, we rewrote our Citi Data Governance Policy (which governs how we 
manage and use our data) to be more concise, provide greater clarity and embed accountability across the firm. The policy clarifies and simplifies the 
way we govern data, with a focus on achieving access to trusted, high-quality 
data in a controlled way.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
104
Our Path to Transformation
To	e stablish 	a 	b aseline 	f or 	o ur 	t ransforma -
tion	s trategy, 	w e 	c onducted 	a 	g ap 	a nalysis 	
exercise, 	s tarted 	i n 	2 020 	a nd 	c ompleted 	
in	2 021, 	t o 	r eview 	t he 	i ssues 	r aised 	i n 	t he 	
consent 	o rders 	a nd 	d efine 	t he 	g ap 	b etween 	
where 	w e 	w ere 	a nd 	w here 	w e 	n eed 	t o 	b e. 	
Following 	t he 	g ap 	a nalysis, 	w e 	d esigned 	a 	
roadmap 	t o 	g et 	u s 	t o 	o ur 	t arget 	s tate. 	T he 	
roadmap 	c omprises 	s everal 	d istinct 	a reas 	
that	f eed 	i nto 	C iti’s 	i ntegrated 	v ision 	o f 	
transformation 	f or 	o ur 	c ompany. 	
One	o f 	t he 	fi rst 	a ctions 	w e 	u ndertook 	i n 	
2021 	w as 	t o 	d evelop 	a nd 	r oll 	o ut 	a 	n ew 	
Enterprise 	R isk 	M anagement 	F ramework 	t o 	
assess 	 risk	 across 	 our	 enterprise. 	 The	 inte-
grated 	a pproach 	o f 	t he 	f ramework 	s eeks 	t o 	
drive 	c onsistency 	a cross 	k ey 	a reas 	o f 	r isk, 	
strengthening 	t he 	w ay 	t he 	fi rm 	i dentifies, 	
measures 	a nd 	m onitors 	r isk 	s o 	t hat 	w e 	
can	i mplement 	a ppropriate 	c ontrols 	a nd 	
reporting 	m echanisms. 	T he 	f ramework 	helps 	b ring 	c onsistency 	a nd 	s tructure 	t o 	
the	v aried 	t ypes 	o f 	r isks 	w e 	f ace 	a cross 	
Citi	— 	l eading 	t o 	b etter 	s cenario-planning, 	
stress 	t esting 	a nd 	r oot-cause 	a nalyses 	
across 	t he 	r isk 	l ifecycle. 	
All	c olleagues 	a re 	e mpowered 	t o 	a pply 	t he 	
Enterprise 	R isk 	M anagement 	F ramework 	
to	t heir 	w ork 	a nd 	a re 	r esponsible 	f or 	
promptly 	e scalating 	r isk-related 	c oncerns. 	
We	r olled 	o ut 	t raining 	o n 	t he 	n ew 	f rame -
work 	t o 	a ll 	e mployees 	g lobally 	i n 	2 021, 	a nd 	
98% 	c ompleted 	t he 	t raining 	b y 	t he 	e nd 	o f 	
the	y ear. 	
We	a re 	a lso 	d eveloping 	s tandards, 	p lans 	
and	t raining 	c urricula 	f or 	a 	m ore 	m odern, 	
streamlined 	a pproach 	t o	o ur	c ontrol 	e nvi-
ronment, 	w hich 	w e 	w ill 	b e 	i mplementing 	i n 	
future 	y ears. 	F or 	e xample, 	w e 	a re 	e nsuring 	
that	w hen 	i ncidents 	a rise, 	o ur 	e mployees 	
can	c onduct 	r obust 	r oot-cause 	a nalyses 	
and	then 	 apply 	 the	 lessons 	 learned 	 hori-
zontally 	a cross 	t he 	o rganization 	t o 	p revent 	similar 	i ssues 	f rom 	a rising 	e lsewhere. 	
In	a ddition, 	w e 	a re 	w orking 	t o 	s implify, 	
streamline 	a nd 	a utomate 	o ur 	c ontrols 	— 	
strengthening 	o ur 	a bility 	t o 	p revent 	i ssues, 	
not	j ust 	t o 	d etect 	t hem 	a fter 	t hey 	a rise. 	
To	e mpower 	o ur 	e mployees 	a nd 	i ncrease 	
the	e ffectiveness 	o f 	t heir 	d ay-to-day 	w ork, 	
we	a re 	u ndertaking 	a 	fu ll 	u pdate 	o f 	o ur 	
policies 	 to	 make 	 them 	 easier 	 to	 under -
stand 	a nd 	t ake 	a ction 	a gainst. 	W e’re 	a lso 	
planning 	t o 	m igrate 	o ur 	p olicies 	t o 	a 	n ew 	
platform 	i n 	2 023, 	m aking 	t hem 	e asier 	t o 	
access 	a nd 	n avigate. 	
During 	2021, 	we	continued 	to	build 	teams 	
focused 	on	transformation 	activities 	
across 	the	company. 	These 	teams 	are	
a	hybrid 	of	employees 	with	a	depth 	of	
institutional 	knowledge 	and	newer 	employ -
ees	who	bring 	diverse 	expertise 	and	
perspectives. 	
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Risk Management Lifecycle Citi’s Approach to 
Managing Risk: 
 •Culture 
 •Enterprise Programs 
 •Risk Management 
 •Governance
TALENT | TECHNOLOGY AND DATA | ANALYTICSMONITORCONTROLREPORTIDENTIFY
MEASUREContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
105
Accountability, Culture  
and Talent
Our	t ransformation 	i s	u nderpinned 	b y	
a	fu ndamental 	r eset 	o f 	o ur 	a pproach 	t o	
culture 	a nd 	t alent, 	t o 	s trengthen 	r isk	
management 	a nd 	o ur 	c ontrol 	e nviron -
ment. 	W e 	b elieve 	t his 	w ill 	a llow 	u s 	t o 	b uild	
a	c ulture 	o f 	e xcellence 	i n 	w hich 	w e 	e ach	
take	o wnership 	f or 	m anaging 	r isk 	a nd	
controls 	a nd 	w here 	w e 	c ontinue 	t o 	t ake	
pride 	i n 	w orking 	t ogether 	t o 	a lways 	d o	
the	r ight 	t hing 	f or 	o ur 	c lients, 	c olleagues 	
and	c ommunities.
To	achieve 	this,	we	introduced 	a	new	set	
of	Leadership 	P rinciples 	in	2021, 	to	help	
us	embed 	the	behaviors 	and	conditions 	
we	need 	in	order 	to	sustain 	the	changes 	
we	are	making 	as	part	of	our	transfor -
mation. 	To	further 	embed 	the	Leadership 	
Principles, 	Citi	is	deploying 	a	three-year, 	
firm-wide 	culture 	change 	program, 	
designed 	to	change 	the	way	we	work 	by	
introducing 	small, 	everyday 	habits 	that	
we	can	all	adopt 	to	make 	Citi	a	stronger, 	
simpler 	and	more 	enjoyable 	place 	to	work. 	
We	are	working 	to	ensure 	that	we	have 	the	
right 	number 	of	employees 	with	the	right 	
skills 	in	place 	to	achieve 	risk	and	control 	
excellence, 	and	that	we	use	our	employee 	
development 	programs, 	promotion 	and	
performance 	management 	processes 	and	
compensation 	to	reinforce 	and	incentivize 	
that	excellence. 	Our	compensation 	struc -
ture	captures 	individual 	impacts 	on	risk	
and	control, 	and	each 	of	our	employees 	
has	a	related 	performance 	goal	they	are	
working 	t oward. 	Ethics and Culture  
at Citi
Each 	of	our	employees 	shares 	a	common 	
responsibility 	to	earn 	and	maintain 	our	
clients’ 	trust 	by	applying 	our	values 	and	
principles 	every 	day,	to	everything 	they	
do,	wherever 	Citi	operates. 	We	expect 	our	
employees 	 to	 prioritize 	 excellence 	 —	 for	 our	
clients, 	in	our	operations, 	and	in	our	risk	
and	controls 	environment 	—	and	to	provide 	
our	products, 	services 	and	expertise 	in	
a	systemically 	responsible 	manner, 	while 	
complying 	with	all	applicable 	laws, 	regu -
lations 	and	Citi	policies. 	To	reinforce 	this,	
we	establish 	and	communicate 	our	core	
values 	and	principles 	through 	our	Mission 	
and	Value 	Proposition, 	our	Leadership 	
Principles, 	Citi’s 	Code 	of	Conduct, 	various 	
training 	and	development 	opportunities, 	
employee 	engagement 	initiatives 	and	
communications 	from 	our	senior 	leaders.Tone from the Top
We	foster 	a	culture 	of	ethics 	through 	
our	governance 	framework, 	programs 	
and	efforts 	that	embed 	our	culture 	and	
expectations 	for	behavior 	throughout 	
the	organization. 	Our	approach 	begins 	
with	a	strong 	“tone 	from 	the	top,” 	start -
ing	with	our	Board 	of	Directors. 	With	
oversight 	from 	the	Ethics, 	Conduct 	and	
Culture 	Committee 	of	the	Board ,	our	
senior 	leaders 	consistently 	reinforce 	a	
culture 	of	ethics, 	appropriate 	conduct 	and	
accountability 	within 	the	organization, 	and	
empower 	our	employees 	to	make 	ethical 	
decisions, 	escalate 	issues 	and	adhere 	to	
Citi’s 	standards 	of	conduct.
WE ASK OUR COLLEAGUES GLOBALLY TO ENSURE THAT THEIR 
DECISIONS PASS THREE TESTS:
• They are in our clients’ interests.
• They create economic value.
• They are always systemically responsible.
These three tests help our colleagues to responsibly deliver on our core 
activities of safeguarding assets, lending money, making payments and 
accessing capital markets on behalf of our clients — each of which creates an 
obligation to act with integrity, to do everything possible to create the best outcomes for our clients, and to prudently manage risk. The tests demon -
strate our commitment to using good judgment and taking pride in doing the right thing — even when it’s not the easiest thing.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
106
Acting with Integrity
We	empower 	our	employees 	to	do	what’s 	
right 	by	setting 	clear 	expectations 	through 	
our	Mission 	and	Value 	Proposition, 	
Leadership 	Principles 	and	Code 	of	
Conduct, 	as	well	as	by	providing 	the	tools 	
and	resources 	our	employees 	need 	to	act	
ethically, 	along 	with	clear 	information 	
about 	the	various 	resources 	available 	to	
escalate 	c oncerns.
Code of Conduct
Citi’s 	Code 	o f 	C onduct 	o utlines 	t he 	
standards 	o f 	e thics 	a nd 	p rofessional 	
behavior 	e xpected 	o f 	e mployees 	a nd	
representatives 	o f	C iti	wh en	d ealing 	
with	c lients, 	b usiness 	c olleagues, 	
shareholders, 	c ommunities 	an d	e ach	
other. 	I t 	a lso 	p rovides 	a n 	o verview 	o f 	k ey	
legal 	a nd 	r egulatory 	r equirements 	a nd	
select 	g lobal 	p olicies.
Our	Code 	 reinforces 	 for	 employees 	 that	
Citi’s 	 culture 	 is	 one	 in	 which 	 we	 take	
pride 	 in	 always 	 doing 	 the	 right 	 thing, 	 hold	
ourselves 	an d	e ach	o ther	a ccountable, 	an d	
feel	c omfortable 	a nd	eq uipped 	t o	p romptly 	
escalate 	c oncerns 	a bout 	a ctual 	o r	p otential 	
misconduct. 	I t	a lso	r eflects 	C iti’s	o ngoing 	
commitment 	 to	 fostering 	 a	 culture 	 of	 diver -
sity	a nd 	i nclusion 	— 	o ne 	i n 	w hich 	d oing 	t he	
right 	 thing 	 includes 	 showing 	 empathy 	 for	
our	c olleagues, 	c lients 	a nd	c ommunities; 	
treating 	 each 	 other 	 with	 respect 	 and	 civility; 	
and	continuing 	 to	 invest 	 in	 colleagues 	 from 	
all	b ackgrounds.
Citi’s 	 Code 	 of	 Conduct 	 applies 	 to	 all	
directors, 	 officers 	 and	 employees 	 of	 Citi	
worldwide. 	 Upon 	 joining 	 Citi,	 employees 	
must 	 acknowledge 	 that	 they	 have 	 read	 and	
will	comply 	 with	 our	 Code. 	 To	 best	 serve 	
our	global 	 workforce, 	 we	 publish 	 our	 Code 	
of	C onduct 	i n 	21	l anguages 	and	 make 	 it	
publicly 	 available 	 on	 our	 Investor 	 Relations 	
website. 	I ndividuals 	p erforming 	s ervices 	
for	C iti 	m ay 	a lso 	b e 	su bject 	t o 	o ur 	C ode	
by	c ontract 	o r 	a greement. 	A s 	e xplicitly 	
stated 	i n 	o ur 	C ode, 	v iolations 	c an 	r esult 	in	d isciplinary 	a ction 	u p	t o	a nd	in cluding 	
termination 	 of	 employment 	 or	 other 	 rela-
tionship 	w ith 	C iti.
We	p rovide 	C ode 	o f 	C onduct 	t raining 	t o	
new	hires 	 globally 	 when 	 they	 join	 Citi,	
as	well	 as	 to	 nonemployee 	 contingent 	
workers 	 performing 	 services 	 for	 Citi	 at	
their 	 time	 of	 onboarding. 	 In	 addition, 	 we	
ask	employees 	 and	 contingent 	 workers 	 to	
periodically 	r eaffirm 	t heir	c ommitment 	t o	
our	Code 	 through 	 required 	 Code 	 of	 Conduct 	
training. 	T he 	t raining 	in cludes 	h ypothetical 	
work-related 	 ethical 	 scenarios 	 that	 focus 	
on	m aking 	g ood 	d ecisions 	a nd 	p erforming 	
our	w ork 	i n 	a 	w ay 	t hat 	i s 	c onsistent 	w ith	
Citi’s 	v alues, 	c ulture, 	ap plicable 	l aws,	an d	
Citi	policies, 	 standards 	 and	 procedures. 	 The	
training 	in cludes 	h ypothetical 	w ork-related 	
situations 	t hat 	a llow 	e mployees 	t o 	p ractice 	
ethical 	d ecision-making 	a nd 	r einforce 	k ey	
concepts 	f rom 	o ur 	C ode 	o f 	C onduct, 	M ission 	
and	V alue 	P roposition 	a nd 	o ur 	L eadership 	
Principles. 	Li ke 	o ur 	C ode 	o f 	C onduct, 	t he	training 	e mphasizes 	e mployees’ 	o bligation 	
to	p romptly 	r eport 	a ctual 	o r 	su spected 	
misconduct 	a nd	p rovides 	i nformation 	on	
the	various 	 resources 	 available 	 to	 them 	 to	
do	so.
Leadership Principles
In	early 	 2021, 	 we	 launched 	 a	 new	 set	 of	
Leadership 	P rinciples 	t hat	r eflect 	t he 	
behaviors 	 and	 expectations 	 we	 have 	 for	
ourselves 	i n 	l ine 	w ith 	o ur 	transformation 	
to	become 	 a	 better, 	 stronger 	 bank. 	 We	
encourage 	a ll 	e mployees 	t o 	d emonstrate 	
the	Leadership 	 Principles 	 in	 all	 that	 they	 do.	
Holding 	 ourselves 	 and	 each 	 other 	 to	 these 	
high	 standards 	 is	 part	 of	 our	 culture 	 and	
our	c ommitment 	t o 	o perating 	i n 	o ur 	c lients’ 	
best	i nterests, 	d riving 	ec onomic 	v alue	a nd	
managing 	ri sk.	
We	expect 	managers 	to	lead	by	example 	
and	inspire 	their 	employees 	to	live	Citi’s 	
values. 	Every 	manager 	is	responsible 	for	
creating 	a	work 	environment 	that	is	free	of	Citi’s Leadership Principles
These principles represent the qualities, behaviors and expectations we all must 
exhibit to deliver on our mission of enabling growth and economic progress. They 
will contribute to creating a culture that drives client excellence, controls excel -
lence and operational excellence.
We take ownership: Challenging each other to high standards and welcoming 
that challenge; greeting change with optimism, curiosity and resilience; speaking 
with candor; learning from experience; and contributing to and honoring group 
decisions 
We deliver with pride: Striving for excellence across our business; simplifying, 
standardizing and clarifying our work; holding ourselves and others accountable 
for managing risk; fixing root causes of problems; and taking pride in doing the 
right thing
We succeed together: Valuing and learning from different perspectives; breaking 
down barriers; measuring performance through a stakeholder lens; investing in 
colleagues from all backgrounds; and showing empathy for our colleagues, clients and communities.Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
107
discrimination, 	harassment 	and	retaliation. 	
Managers 	are	expected 	to	reinforce 	the	
importance 	of	following 	our	Leadership 	
Principles, 	Code 	of	Conduct 	and	Mission 	
and	Value 	Proposition, 	as	well	as	to	
encourage 	employees 	to	speak 	up	and	
raise 	any	concerns 	about 	potential 	legal 	
or	ethical 	issues. 	Managers 	must 	properly 	
resolve 	or	promptly 	escalate 	concerns 	
through 	appropriate 	channels, 	promote 	
awareness 	of	all	resources 	available 	for	
reporting 	concerns 	and	neither 	engage 	in,	
nor	tolerate, 	retaliation 	of	any	kind.
Escalating Business and 
Ethical Concerns
Each 	 member 	 of	 our	 workforce 	 plays 	 a	 crit-
ical	role	 in	 escalating 	 business 	 and	 ethical 	
concerns 	 so	 that	 they	 can	 be	 addressed 	
quickly 	a nd 	e ffectively. 	C iti’s	Co de	o f 	
Conduct 	e mphasizes 	t he	p rinciple 	t hat,	
when 	 in	 doubt, 	 employees 	 should 	 always 	 err	
on	the	 side	 of	 escalation. 	 Our	 Code 	 provides 	
an	overview 	 of	 the	 types 	 of	 misconduct 	
and	concerns 	 that	 require 	 escalation 	 and	
the	resources 	 available 	 to	 employees 	 for	
prompt 	 escalation 	 of	 concerns, 	 as	 well	
as	a	l ink 	t o 	t he 	fu ll 	C iti 	E scalation 	P olicy, 	
which 	 provides 	 even 	 more 	 information 	 for	
employees 	a bout 	e scalation 	r equirements 	
and	r esources.
As	part	 of	 Citi’s 	 escalation 	 resources, 	 the	
Ethics 	 Hotline 	p rovides 	m ultiple 	c hannels 	
for	employees 	 and	 any	 third 	 party, 	 includ -
ing	members 	 of	 the	 general 	 public, 	 to	
report 	c oncerns 	a bout 	u nethical 	b ehavior 	
to	Citi’s 	 Ethics 	 Office. 	 In	 addition 	 to	 internal 	
and	public-facing 	 websites 	 (enhanced 	 in	
January 	 2022 	 with	 upgraded 	 features) 	
that	f acilitate 	su bmission 	o f 	c oncerns, 	a	
telephone 	 line	 is	 available 	 24	 hours 	 a	 day,	
seven 	 days 	 a	 week, 	 with	 live	 operators 	
who	 can	 connect 	 to	 translators 	 in	 multiple 	
languages.
We	believe 	 it	 is	 essential 	 that	 individuals 	
feel	secure 	 when 	 raising 	 a	 concern. 	 All	contacts 	 to	 the	 Ethics 	 Office 	 and	 Ethics 	
Office 	i nvestigations 	a re	t reated 	a s	
confidentially 	a s	p ossible, 	c onsistent 	w ith 	
the	need 	 to	 investigate 	 and	 address 	 the	
matter, 	a nd 	su bject 	t o 	a pplicable 	l aws 	a nd	
regulations. 	 Concerns 	 may	 be	 raised 	 either 	
anonymously 	o r 	w ith 	a ttribution, 	su bject 	
to	applicable 	 laws	 and	 regulations. 	 Further, 	
Citi	prohibits 	 any	 form 	 of	 retaliation 	 against 	
anyone 	w ho 	r aises 	a	c oncern 	or	q uestion 	
regarding 	e thics, 	d iscrimination 	o r	h arass -
ment 	m atters, 	as	w ell	as	a gainst 	a nyone 	who	p articipates 	i n 	a 	su bsequent 	i nvestiga -
tion.	 Employees 	 who	 engage 	 in	 retaliation 	
against 	a	c olleague 	b ecause 	t hey	r aised 	a	
concern 	or	q uestion, 	a sked	f or	a	r easonable 	
accommodation, 	r eported 	a	v iolation 	or	
was	i nvolved 	i n 	a n 	i nvestigation 	a re 	su bject 	
to	disciplinary 	 action, 	 up	 to	 and	 including 	
termination 	 of	 employment 	 or	 other 	 rela-
tionship 	 with	 Citi.
ASSESSING OUR CULTURE OF ETHICS
Hearing from employees is one important way we assess the strength of ethics 
and accountability across our company. As part of Citi’s annual Voice of the 
Employee survey, we include an Ethical Culture Index to gather feedback from 
employees about the following items:
• Comfort with reporting unethical practices without fear of reprisal
• A feeling of accountability to identify and escalate issues
• Confidence that Citi will act upon reported legal or ethical violations
• A belief that colleagues act with integrity
• Manager encouragement of ethical conduct even in the face of pressure
Index results stayed stable in 2021, with 91% of our employees responding 
positively to the index. We will continue to listen to our employees and raise 
the bar in this area.
Staying on Top of Your Ethical Game
Through our global Ethical Fitness Challenge, led by our Executive Management 
Team, we provided employees with the equipment they needed to get in their 
best ethical shape. Through this campaign, we released a series of eight modules 
over three years, incorporating senior leader videos, case studies and knowledge checks, as well as support to help managers guide conversations around each 
topic. Each part in the series highlighted a different element of ethical fitness, 
such as behavior rationalization, the importance of speaking up, misplaced loyalty 
and finding clarity in ethical situations. This campaign concluded in 2021, with 
a required training for all employees to consolidate and reinforce key themes presented over the course of the campaign.Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
108
TRANSPARENCY FOR EMPLOYEES
Annual Ethics Hotline Summary
Each year, the Citi Ethics Office provides all employees with a summary of the types of concerns received through 
the Ethics Hotline and the types of corrective actions that may arise from substantiated concerns. This summary 
demonstrates that the Ethics Hotline process is used by our colleagues globally and that raising concerns to the Citi 
Ethics Office leads to meaningful action within our organization, such as disciplinary action, termination of vendor relationships, referrals to law enforcement or governmental authorities, employee communications, additional training, 
control enhancements, and changes to Citi policies, business processes and procedures.
Spotlight on Ethics
Citi shares with employees the results of ethics investigations, including a summary of corrective actions, through 
a quarterly communication called the Spotlight on Ethics. This communication reinforces for employees that their 
concerns are investigated and highlights commonplace areas in which ethical lapses can occur. In 2021, the Spotlight 
on Ethics focused on select risk areas such as protecting information from inappropriate uses, the prohibition on using unapproved communication methods to conduct Citi business, preventing retaliation or the suppression of concerns, and 
the requirement to cooperate with appropriately authorized internal or external investigations.
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
109
Risk	Management
We employ robust policies and 
practices to thwart corruption, 
address potential environmental 
and social risks in our portfolio, 
and safeguard data and customer 
privacy. These rigorous practices 
enable us to grow a successful, 
respected business that delivers  
the best possible results for 
our clients, customers and 
communities.
Managing Corruption 
and Tax-Related Risks
Anti-Corruption Activities
Citi’s 	F inancial 	C rimes 	U nit 	i ncludes 	t he 	
Global 	F inancial 	C rimes 	I nvestigations 	
and	I ntelligence 	( GFCII), 	A nti-Bribery 	
and	C orruption, 	A nti-Money 	L aundering 	
(AML) 	a nd 	S anctions 	t eams. 	O ur 	C hief 	
Compliance 	O fficer, 	w ho 	r eports 	d irectly 	t o 	
our	C EO, 	p rovides 	r egular 	r eports 	o n 	t he 	
performance 	o f	ou r	c ompliance 	p rogram, 	
with	r egard 	t o 	t hese 	a reas, 	t o 	o ur 	B oard 	
of	D irectors 	o r 	a 	c ommittee 	o f 	t he 	B oard, 	
as	a ppropriate. 	T hrough 	o ur 	F inancial 	
Crimes 	u nit, 	C iti 	w orks 	t o 	p revent, 	i dentify 	
and	c ounteract 	t he 	m any 	a nd 	v aried 	
corruption-related 	r isks	t hat	c onfront 	t he	
financial 	s ector.
For	e xample, 	s ince 	i ts 	i nception 	i n 	2 018,	
Citi	h as 	b een 	a n 	a ctive 	m ember 	o f 	United 	
for	Wildlife’s 	 Financial 	 Taskforce ,	a	collab -
oration 	b etween 	fi nancial 	i nstitutions 	a nd	
nongovernmental 	o rganizations 	t o	fi ght	
illegal 	w ildlife 	t rafficking. 	I n 	2 021, 	C iti	
worked 	 with	 United 	 for	 Wildlife, 	 TRAFFIC 	
and	t wo 	t elecommunications 	c ompanies 	
to	c reate 	a n 	i llegal 	w ildlife 	t rade 	c ountry 	
threat 	p rofile 	o utlining 	c ritical 	ri sk	s cenarios 	
and	i ndicators 	f or 	c ountries 	i n 	su b-Saharan 	
Africa, 	 beginning 	 with	 Kenya 	 as	 a	 pilot. 	In	addition, 	during 	2021, 	Citi’s 	GFCII 	
and	Anti-Bribery 	and	Corruption 	teams 	
participated 	in	a	working 	group 	led	by	the	
Organisation 	for	Economic 	Cooperation 	
and	Development 	(OECD) 	to	develop 	a	
credible 	certification 	framework 	for	eval-
uating 	infrastructure 	projects 	under 	the	
auspices 	of	the	OECD’s 	Blue	Dot	Network .	
Once 	implemented, 	this	framework 	will	
set	a	standard 	to	develop 	market-driven, 	
transparent, 	financially 	sustainable 	
development 	projects. 	The	working 	
group 	is	made 	up	of	leaders 	and	experts 	
from 	the	private 	sector, 	civil	society 	and	
academia 	and	is	focused 	on	the	following 	
core	themes: 	investment 	efficiency 	and	
outcomes, 	environmental 	and	social 	
considerations, 	and	transparency 	and	
integrity. 	Citi	participants 	are	shaping 	the	
framework 	by	sharing 	their 	expertise 	in	
standards, 	guidelines 	and	practices 	related 	
to	AML 	and	anti-bribery 	and	corruption, 	
including 	t hird-party 	a nd	a dvisor/inter -
mediary 	risk	management, 	procurement 	
lobbying, 	controls, 	risk	assessments, 	
metrics, 	Financial 	Action 	Task	Force 	guid-
ance 	and	customer 	due	diligence.
In	2021, 	Citi	also	contributed 	to	a	multi-
session 	workshop 	sponsored 	by	the	
Terrorism, 	Transnational 	Crime 	and	
Corruption 	Center, 	in	conjunction 	with	the	Association 	of	Certified 	Anti-Money 	
Laundering 	Specialists. 	Participants 	
included 	several 	financial 	institutions 	
and	leading 	nonprofit 	organizations 	with	
expertise 	in	environmental 	crimes, 	such 	
as	TRAFFIC 	and	key	U.S.	government 	
development 	agencies 	(e.g., 	USAID). 	The	
workshops 	were 	designed 	to	address 	key	
aspects 	of	global 	environmental 	crime 	
and	corruption. 	GFCII 	provided 	several 	
presentations 	and	led	discussions 	on	the	
capability 	of	financial 	institutions 	and	
the	importance 	of	information-sharing 	
regarding 	typologies 	and	red	flags, 	to	
address 	crimes 	related 	to	environmental, 	
social 	and	governance 	(ESG) 	issues. 	
As	an	outcome 	of	the	roundtable 	
discussions, 	TRAFFIC 	worked 	with	GFCII 	
to	provide 	specialized 	training 	to	Citi	
employees 	in	our	Europe, 	Middle 	East	and	
Africa 	region. 	This	included 	a	series 	of	
webinars 	co-hosted 	by	Citi,	TRAFFIC 	and	
the	Environmental 	Investigation 	Agency, 	
a	nongovernmental 	organization 	that	
investigates 	and	campaigns 	against 	envi-
ronmental 	crime 	and	abuse. 	The	training 	
series 	focused 	on	how	to	identify 	red	flags 	
in	client 	onboarding 	and	transactional 	
activity 	to	disrupt 	the	flow	of	income 	
generated 	by	environmental 	crime. 	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
110
Programs and Training to Combat Financial Crimes
 
Anti-Bribery Program
Citi has policies, procedures and internal controls to comply with anti-bribery laws, and we conduct an annual bribery risk assessment of all global 
business lines. We provide our staff with anti-bribery training annually and supplement it with targeted training and communications as needed. For more information, see the Citi Anti-Bribery Program Statement , which is updated at least annually.
Anti-Money Laundering Progra m
Citi’s Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Program protects our clients, our franchise and the global financial system from the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. The program includes more than 5,600 employees globally, including 225 designated AML Country Officers covering every Citi business, function and geographic area. These specialists partner with various functions, including Compliance, Audit, Technology and our insti -
tutional and consumer businesses, to provide effective enterprise AML risk assessment and to meet our AML-related requirements at both the global and the local levels. For more information, visit our AML Program website .
Global Financial Crimes Investigations and Intelligence 
Global Financial Crimes Investigations and Intelligence (GFCII) is uniquely positioned within our Compliance function to tackle financial crime and provide a globally consistent approach to the prevention and detection of risk. GFCII leverages its many trusted partnerships with law enforcement, nonprofits and internal stakeholders to obtain actionable intelligence, primarily through participation in public/private forums, allowing for proactive identification of illicit activity and effective mitigation of risk. This connectivity results in the execution of a data-driven global strategy addressing emerging risk trends and typologies across business lines and geographies.
Sanctions Program
Citi is obligated to comply with applicable sanctions, laws and regulations in the countries where we operate and maintains a robust, risk-based Independent Compliance Risk Management Sanctions Program that applies globally. As a financial institution organized in the United States, Citi and our subsidiaries globally comply with applicable U.S. sanctions requirements, among other requirements. Our Sanctions Program includes policies and procedures, risk category statement and tolerance thresholds, enterprise-wide screening, annual risk assessments and audits of sanctions control processes, employee training and a diverse team of Compliance professionals stationed around the world.
For more information on our Financial Crimes programs, please see Citi’s Code of Conduct .
Number of Employees and Contingent Workers Who Completed Citi’s 
2021 Financial Crimes Compliance Training (by Region)*
62,759
North  
America29,499
Latin  
America28,671
Europe, Middle  
East and Africa74,365
Asia  
Pacific
*	This	combined 	online 	training 	incorporates 	multiple 	anti-corruption 	efforts, 	including 	AML, 	sanctions 	and	anti-bribery 	training. 	Numbers 	include 	all	Citi	staff 	who	had	completed 	the
2021 	training 	as	of	December 	2021. 	(Employees 	and	contingent 	workers 	generally 	have 	30	days 	to	complete 	it.)
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
111
Taxation Policies  
and Standards
Citi	d oes 	b usiness 	i n 	m ore 	t han 	1 60 	
countries 	a nd	j urisdictions, 	a nd	ma intains 	
strong 	r eview 	a nd 	e scalation 	p rocesses 	
that	e nable 	u s 	t o 	a dhere 	t o 	h igh 	s tandards 	
of	c ompliance 	w ith	ap plicable 	t ax	l aws.	W e	
are	a 	c urrent 	i ncome 	t axpayer, 	b oth 	w ithin 	
and	o utside 	t he 	U nited 	S tates. 	O ur 	t ax 	
profile 	i s 	c onsistent 	w ith 	t he 	l ocations 	o f 	
our	bu siness 	op erations.
We	e mphasize 	s trong 	i nternal 	c ontrols 	a nd 	
transparency 	w ith 	g lobal 	t ax 	a uthorities 	
and	s hare 	i nformation 	r elevant 	t o 	o ur 	t ax 	
profile. 	W e 	su pplement 	t his 	t ransparency 	
with	 additional 	 country-by-country 	 report -
ing,	w hich 	i s 	r equired 	u nder 	t he 	O ECD’s 	
action 	p lan 	t o 	a ddress 	b ase 	e rosion 	a nd 	profit 	s hifting. 	O ur 	t ax 	p olicy 	i s 	o verseen 	
by	o ur 	C hief 	T ax 	O fficer, 	w ho 	r eports 	t o 	
the	C hief 	F inancial 	O fficer. 	T ax 	p olicies 	a nd 	
related 	m atters 	a re 	r eviewed 	b y 	t he 	A udit 	
Committee 	o f	t he	B oard 	o f	Di rectors.
Citi	m aintains 	a 	s trong 	s ystem 	o f 	c ontrols 	
to	f acilitate 	r eporting 	a nd 	w ithholding 	
requirements. 	W e 	h ave 	s ystems 	a nd 	
processes 	t o 	c omply 	w ith 	t he 	F oreign 	
Account 	T ax 	C ompliance 	A ct, 	a nd 	w e 	a re 	
in	c ompliance 	w ith 	t he 	C ommon 	R eporting 	
Standard 	i n 	a ll	ap plicable 	c ountries 	w here 	
local 	i mplementing 	g uidance 	h as	b een	
issued. 	S imilarly, 	w e 	h ave 	a 	fi rm-wide 	p olicy 	
applicable 	t o 	c ustomer 	t ransactions 	u nder 	
which 	C iti 	w ill 	o nly 	e ngage 	i n 	t ransactions 	
where 	t here 	i s 	a 	h igh 	d egree 	o f 	c ertainty 	
that	a ny 	t ax 	a spects 	w ill 	b e 	a ccepted 	b y 	t he 	
respective 	t axing 	a uthorities.For	m ore 	i nformation 	on	h ow	t axation 	
impacts 	C iti, 	s ee 	p age 	1 28 	o f 	o ur 		
2021 	 Form 	 10-K.
Public Policy
Being 	a	responsible 	corporate 	citizen 	
includes 	engagement 	in	the	political 	
process 	as	a	part	of	our	strong 	ESG	prac-
tice.	The	potential 	impact 	of	public 	policy 	
on	our	business, 	employees, 	communities 	
and	customers 	is	an	important 	reason 	
why	Citi	works 	to	advance 	and	protect 	the	
global 	business 	interests 	of	our	company 	
directly 	and	indirectly 	through 	engage -
ment 	with	trade 	associations, 	governments 	
and	elected 	officials 	around 	the	world. 	Citi	
advocates 	for	public 	policies 	that	support 	
the	interests 	of	our	company, 	clients 	and	
employees, 	such 	as	trade, 	cybersecurity, 	
data	localization, 	tax	and	financial 	reform. 	
Guided 	by	Citi’s 	Political 	E ngagement 	
Statement ,	company 	political 	activities 	are	
performed 	in	compliance 	with	applicable 	
laws	and	regulations.
Under 	U.S.	Federal 	Election 	Commission 	
rules, 	Citi’s 	Political 	Action 	Committee 	(Citi	
PAC) 	pools 	the	voluntary 	contributions 	of	
eligible 	employees 	to	support 	U.S.	political 	
candidates 	and	campaigns 	that	support 	
the	financial 	industry 	and	complementary 	
pro-business 	policies. 	In	2021, 	we	reviewed 	
and	strengthened 	our	principles 	for	deter -
mining 	future 	support 	by	Citi	PAC. 	The	
updated 	criteria 	include: 	
	•Support 	of	business 	issues 	important 	
to	Citi	
	•Position 	on	a	committee 	with	jurisdic -
tion	over	policy 	issues 	important 	to	Citi,	
or	elected 	leadership 	position 	
	•Representation 	of	a	state 	or	district 	
where 	Citi	has	a	significant 	employee 	
presence 	
	•Character 	and	integrity, 	and	demon -
strated 	commitment 	to	bipartisanship, 	
governing 	and	protecting 	democratic 	
institutions 	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
112
Our	bipartisan 	Government 	Affairs 	team 	
and	the	Citi	PAC	Board 	will	consider 	
whether 	contributions 	meet 	the	strength -
ened 	criteria 	going 	forward.
Safeguarding Data 
and Protecting 
Customer Information
As	d igital 	s olutions 	e xpand 	a nd 	b ecome 	
more 	i ntegrated 	i nto 	o ur 	d aily 	l ives, 	w e 	
see	i ncreasing 	c oncerns 	r elated 	t o 	p rivacy 	
and	s ecurity 	b reaches. 	D ata 	s ecurity 	a nd 	
customer 	p rivacy 	a re 	t op 	p riorities 	f or 	C iti 	
and	f or 	o ur 	s takeholders. 	T he 	C OVID-19 	
pandemic 	 has	 led	 to	 an	 even 	 greater 		
reliance 	o n 	d igital 	t echnologies, 	w hich 	
makes 	s afeguarding 	d ata 	a nd 	c ustomer 	
information 	 even 	 more 	 vital.
Cybersecurity
Citi’s 	C hief 	I nformation 	S ecurity 	O ffice 	
(CISO) 	o rganization 	e nsures 	t hat 	a n 	a ppro -
priate 	 level 	 of	 cybersecurity 	 governance, 	
capabilities 	a nd 	c ontrols 	a re 	i n 	p lace 	t o 	
protect 	C iti’s 	a nd 	o ur 	c lients’ 	i nformation 	
assets, 	w ith 	e nd-to-end 	a ccountability 	
across 	t he 	fi rm. 	O ur 	a pproach 	r ests 	o n 	
ensuring 	w e 	h ave 	t he 	r ight 	a rchitecture, 	
technology, 	p olicies, 	p rocesses 	a nd 	t alent 	
in	place 	 to	 prevent, 	 detect, 	 respond 	 to	 and	
recover 	 from 	 cyber 	 threats 	 quickly.
Our	Cybersecurity 	 Program 	 is	 overseen 	 by	
Citi’s 	B oard 	o f 	D irectors 	a nd 	i s 	r egularly 	
reviewed 	 by	 regulators, 	 as	 well	 as	 by	 inter -
nal	a nd 	e xternal 	a uditors. 	T he 	p rogram 	
is	m anaged 	b y 	t he 	C hief 	E nterprise 	
Operations 	& 	T echnology 	O fficer 	a nd 	
the	C hief 	I nformation 	S ecurity 	O fficer 	
on	a	g lobal 	e nterprise 	b asis; 	t he 	C hief 	
Executives 	 of	 each 	 business 	 sector 	 and	
region 	a re 	r esponsible 	f or 	i mplementation 	
and	c ompliance 	w ith	p rogram 	r equire -
ments. 	A nnually, 	w e 	p rovide 	o ur 	e mployees 	
with	t raining 	o n 	h ow 	t o 	p roperly 	h andle 	
and	m aintain 	t he 	s ecurity 	a nd 	p rivacy 	o f 	
Citi’s 	a nd 	o ur 	c lients’ 	i nformation.During 	2 021, 	C iti’s 	c ybersecurity 	t eam 	
organized 	a 	s eries 	o f 	p reparedness 	
exercises 	 for	 employees, 	 including 	
cybersecurity 	sc enarios 	f or	gl obal	
functions 	a nd 	l ines 	o f 	b usiness 	a cross 	
both 	o ur 	I nstitutional 	C lients 	G roup 	a nd 	
Personal 	B anking 	&	W ealth 	M anagement 	
divisions. 	D ue	t o	t he	c ontinued 	i mpact 	
of	COVID-19, 	 these 	 events 	 were 	 again 	
conducted 	r emotely. 	D uring 	t he 	y ear, 	
we	s aw 	c ontinued 	g rowth 	i n 	d emand 	
from 	 senior 	 executives 	 for	 cybersecurity 	
exercises. 	T he 	C iti 	c ybersecurity 	t eam 	
conducted 	a 	s eries 	o f 	l inked 	e xercises 	f or 	
our	v arious 	r egions, 	c ulminating 	w ith 	a n 	
exercise 	f or 	o ur 	C EO 	a nd 	G lobal 	O perating 	
team. 	C iti’s 	C ybersecurity 	F usion 	C enter 	
participated 	in	t hese 	gl obal	c ybersecurity 	
exercises 	a nd 	c onducted 	a dditional 	d rills 	
dedicated 	t o	i ts	op erations.
To	s afeguard 	i nformation, 	w e 	i nvest 	i n 	
and	develop 	 advanced 	 security 	 solutions 	
that	a llow 	u s 	t o 	b etter 	su pport 	o ur 	
digital 	s trategy. 	F or 	i nstance, 	w e 	a re 	
implementing 	a 	m ultifaceted 	a pproach 	t o 	
move 	 toward 	 password-less 	 capabilities, 	including 	b iometric 	o ptions 	su ch 	a s 	v oice 	
recognition 	or	fi ngerprints. 	T hese 	s olutions 	
create 	a 	f rictionless 	a nd 	m ore 	s ecure 	
experience 	f or	b oth	i nternal 	a nd	e xternal 	
users. 	 In	 addition, 	 Citi	 has	 invested 	 in	
next-generation 	s ecurity 	c omponents 	
that	su pport 	d igital 	a nd 	m obile 	g rowth, 	
by	e nabling 	e nhanced 	s ecurity 	f eatures 	
for	o ur 	m obile 	a pplications. 	F urther 	
investments 	 in	 advanced 	 technology 	 have 	
provided 	 Citi	 with	 improved 	 cyber 	 incident 	
monitoring, 	de tection 	a nd	r esponse 	
capabilities, 	st rengthening 	t he	ba nk’s	
cybersecurity 	p osture.
Citi	conducts 	regular 	cybersecurity 	risk	
assessments 	and	has	internal 	controls 	to	
defend 	a gainst 	c ybersecurity 	b reaches. 	
We	maintain 	technology 	and	cybersecurity 	
policies 	based 	on	established 	industry 	
standards 	and	employ 	robust 	technol -
ogies 	to	protect 	our	data	and	systems, 	
supported 	by	a	strong 	team 	with	deep 	
expertise 	from 	industry 	and	government. 	
Our	CISO 	team 	safeguards 	information 	
from 	data	breaches 	and	misuse 	by	
maintaining 	secure 	networks 	to	protect 	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
113
our	systems 	and	databases, 	and	we	
continuously 	improve 	our	capabilities 	to	
meet 	the	challenge 	of	an	evolving 	threat 	
environment.
In	the	event 	of	a	potential 	breach, 	we	have 	
a	robust 	process 	to	ensure 	appropriate 	
reporting 	and	notification, 	which 	includes:
	•Reviewing 	the	breach 	to	determine 	
whether 	it	meets 	any	regulatory 	or	
legal 	reporting 	requirements 	in	the	
country(ies) 	where 	the	breach 	occurred 	
or	in	the	country(ies) 	impacted 	by	the	
breach. 	If	deemed 	necessary, 	a	legal 	
assessment 	is	conducted.
	•Notifying 	the	impacted 	customers 	as	
required 	by	the	laws	or	regulations 	
of	the	impacted 	country(ies) 	and	as	
directed 	in	the	legal 	assessment, 	if	it	
results 	in	a	requirement 	to	perform 	
customer 	n otifications.
We	understand 	that	simply 	defending 	
ourselves 	is	not	enough. 	We	must 	also	
influence 	the	broader 	cybersecurity 	
landscape 	within 	which 	Citi	operates. 	As	
such, 	we	collaborate 	with	our	clients, 	peer 	
financial 	institutions, 	governments, 	law	
enforcement 	and	intelligence 	agencies 	
on	a	global 	scale 	to	share 	best	practices, 	
exchange 	tactical 	information 	about 	
specific 	cybersecurity 	threats, 	conduct 	
joint	cyber 	resilience 	exercises 	and	work 	to	
drive 	adoption 	of	industry-wide 	standards 	
and	approaches 	that	will	best	enable 	the	
collective 	defense 	of	the	financial 	services 	
sector 	a gainst 	c ybersecurity 	c hallenges. 	
Our	security 	teams 	receive 	and	share 	
threat 	data	with	our	partners 	in	near 	
real	time, 	leveraging 	that	information 	to	
strengthen 	our	internal 	controls 	and	prac-
tices 	and	to	protect 	Citi	from 	attacks 	being 	perpetrated 	against 	other 	firms. 	Citi	takes 	
a	leadership 	role	in	fostering 	a	culture 	of	
sharing 	amongst 	our	competitors 	on	secu -
rity	issues, 	putting 	competitive 	instincts 	
aside 	for	the	sake 	of	strong 	information 	
security 	practices. 		
Privacy
The	fair,	 ethical 	 and	 lawful 	 collection, 	 use	
and	processing 	 of	 customers’ 	 personal 	
information 	 is	 essential 	 to	 build 	 trust, 	
provide 	 best-in-class 	 services 	 and	 achieve 	
our	corporate 	 objectives. 	 To	 help	 meet 	
this	goal, 	 Citi	 has	 established 	 a	 dedicated 	
Chief 	 Privacy 	 Office 	 team, 	 led	 by	 a	 global 	
Chief 	 Privacy 	 Officer. 	 The	 Chief 	 Privacy 	
Office, 	 part	 of	 our	 Independent 	 Compliance 	
Risk	 Management 	 team, 	 manages 	 the	
Citi	Global 	 Privacy 	 Program, 	 which 	 is	
overseen 	 by	 Citi’s 	 Privacy 	 Advisory 	 Body. 	
The	program 	 provides 	 a	 framework 	 for	
managing 	 privacy 	 and	 confidentiality 	 risks 	
for	the	 company. 	 Citi	 has	 also	 established 	
the	Global 	 Chief 	 Privacy 	 Counsel 	 under 	 the	
General 	 Counsel’s 	 Office. 	 The	 Global 	 Chief 	
Privacy 	C ounsel 	p rovides 	gu idance 	an d	
strategic 	 direction 	 regarding 	 privacy 	 and	
data	 protection 	 laws	 to	 the	 Chief 	 Privacy 	
Office 	 and	 to	 businesses 	 and	 functions 	
across 	 the	 enterprise.
Citi’s 	Privacy 	and	Bank 	Customer 	
Confidentiality 	Policy 	articulates 	principles 	
relating 	to	the	collection 	and	processing 	
of	personal 	information, 	requiring, 	in	part, 	
that	personal 	information 	only	be	collected 	
and	used 	as	necessary 	for	the	perfor -
mance 	of	the	services 	offered 	and	for	the	
purposes 	disclosed 	in	a	privacy 	notice. 	Citi	
is	transparent 	in	our	collection 	and	use	
practices 	and	offers 	customers 	choices 	
about 	how	their 	personal 	information 	may	be	collected 	or	otherwise 	used 	(as	required 	
by	law), 	including 	opting 	out	of	marketing 	
or	other 	communications 	or	reviewing 	and	
correcting 	information. 	Citi	employees 	are	
required 	to	take	privacy 	and	information 	
compliance 	training 	that	covers 	these 	
privacy 	concepts.
Protecting Digital Identity
For	fi nancial 	i nstitutions 	su ch 	a s 	C iti, 	
verifying 	o ur 	c ustomers’ 	i dentity 	i s 	fu nda-
mental 	t o 	s afeguarding 	t heir 	fi nancial 	
assets 	a nd 	p rotecting 	t heir 	p rivacy. 	O ur 	
aim	i s 	t o 	d eliver 	s olutions 	t hat 	p rovide 	
seamless, 	i ntuitive 	i nteractions 	w ith 	d igital 	
tools 	t hat 	w on’t 	c ompromise 	p ersonal 	
data. 	T o 	p rovide 	o ngoing 	t raining 	f or 	
our	e mployees, 	w e 	h ave 	c reated 	d igital 	
identity 	l earning 	p acks 	t hat 	h elp 	b uild 	
awareness 	o f 	— 	a nd 	s kills 	r elated 	t o 	— 	n ew 	
digital 	id entity 	t echnologies. 	I n	a ddition, 	
we	e ngage 	w ith 	c lients, 	p artners 	a nd 	
industry 	e xperts 	t o 	d iscuss 	t he 	t rends, 	
challenges 	a nd 	o pportunities 	r elated 	t o 	
digital 	id entity 	a nd	t o	e xplore 	c utting-edge 	
technologies 	t hat 	h ave 	t he 	p otential 	t o 	
meet 	o ur 	c ustomers’ 	need s.
We	also	provide 	our	customers 	with	
timely 	resources 	and	information 	related 	
to	safety 	and	security. 	Our	U.S.	online 	
Security 	Center 	enables 	customers 	to	
learn 	about 	what 	Citi	does 	to	protect 	them 	
and	what 	they	can	do	to	protect 	them -
selves 	against 	identify 	theft 	and	other 	
security 	risks.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
114
If a transaction impacts any of the following Areas of 
High Caution, ESRM will conduct enhanced due diligenceThe ESRM team reviews transactions subject to policy and benchmarks against relevant industry standards/
best practice, identifying opportunities for improvement 
and engagement.Environmental 
and Social Risk 
Management 
Our	Environmental 	and	Social 	Risk	
Management 	(ESRM) 	Policy 	helps 	us	
identify 	potential 	risks 	within 	the	billions 	of	
dollars 	in	global 	transactions 	we	facilitate 	
worldwide. 	This	policy 	also	sets	a	frame -
work 	for	us	to	evaluate 	how	our	clients 	are	
managing 	those 	risks.
Our ESRM Policy
Our	E SRM 	P olicy, 	w hich 	i s 	su mmarized 	
publicly 	i n 	o ur 	Environmental 	a nd	So cial	
Policy 	F ramework ,	h elps 	u s 	fi nance 	
projects 	a nd 	a ctivities 	r esponsibly 	b y 	engaging 	o ur	c lients 	o n	en vironmental 	
and	s ocial 	r isks 	a nd 	b est 	p ractices. 	W e 	
established 	t he 	P olicy 	i n 	2 003, 	a nd 	
we	c ontinue 	t o 	e volve 	o ur 	a pproach 	i n 	
response 	t o 	e merging 	r isks 	a nd 	n ew 	
product 	d evelopment. 	I n 	2 021, 	w e 	
updated 	o ur 	E SRM 	P olicy 	b y 	a dding 	a 	
policy 	p rohibition 	a gainst 	fi nancing 	f or	
companies 	c onstructing 	or	op erating 	
private 	p risons 	a s 	a 	p rimary 	b usiness. 	
Although 	t his 	h as 	n ot 	b een 	a n 	i ssue 	f or 	
our	c ompany 	i n	t he	pa st,	w e	dec ided	t o	
formalize 	t his 	c ommitment 	t hrough 	a n 	
official 	p olicy 	u pdate. 	
Our	comprehensive 	 ESRM 	 Policy 	 covers 	
a	broad 	 scope 	 of	 financial 	 products 	 and	
client 	 sectors 	 and	 guides 	 how	 we	 assess 	
client 	 impacts 	 on	 air	 quality, 	 water 	quality, 	c limate 	c hange, 	b iodiversity, 	l ocal 	
communities, 	 labor, 	 human 	 rights 	 and	
other 	 environmental 	 and	 social 	 issues. 	
Our	i nternal 	p olicies 	a nd 	p rocedures 	
reference 	i nternational 	i ndustry 	s tan-
dards, 	 such 	 as	 the	 International 	 Finance 	
Corporation’s 	 Environmental 	 and	 Social 	
Performance 	 Standards 	 and	 the	 World 	
Bank 	G roup’s 	E nvironmental, 	H ealth, 	a nd 	
Safety 	 Guidelines. 	 Where 	 relevant, 	 we	
also	 require 	 clients 	 to	 adhere 	 to	 sector 	
and	commodity-specific 	 guidelines 	 and	
certifications 	 such 	 as	 the	 Roundtable 	
on	Sustainable 	 Palm 	 Oil	 and	 the	 Forest 	
Stewardship 	C ouncil.
Citi’s ESRM Policy at a Glance
ESRM Policy objective: Effectively assess and manage the 
environmental and social risks associated with financing 
client activities in sectors with sensitive environmental 
and social impacts. A transaction or client relationship may trigger the ESRM Policy for three reasons:Citi’s ESRM Sector Approaches apply sector-specific  review requirements for certain clients in sensitive sectors
Citi’s ESRM Policy also includes a number of prohibitions for highest concern environmental and social risks. Refer 
to the ESRM section of Citi’s Environmental and Social 
Policy Framework  for more information.Transactions with use of proceeds directed to a specific 
physical asset or project
Clients in sectors considered particularly high risk by CitiClients/transactions with impacts to an Area of High Caution1
2
3Coal Mining
Oil & Gas
Military  
EquipmentMining
Palm Oil
Coal-Fired  
PowerForestry
Firearms
• Conflict risk
• Indigenous rights
• Critical habitat and cultural heritage 
• Human rights, including environmental justice
• Involuntary resettlementContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
115
Policy Implementation
Our	centralized 	team 	of	ESRM 	specialists 	
within 	Citi’s 	Risk	Management 	function 	
evaluates 	transactions 	that	trigger 	a	
review 	under 	our	ESRM 	Policy. 	We	also	
provide 	ESRM 	training 	to	key	risk	and	
banking 	personnel 	globally, 	enabling 	
them 	to	spot	potential 	risks. 	In	addition, 	
our	ESRM 	Champions, 	located 	around 	
the	world, 	use	their 	regional 	expertise 	
and	additional 	ESRM 	training 	to	serve 	as	
bridges 	between 	our	local 	banking 	teams 	
and	our	global 	ESRM 	team. 	This	network 	
approach 	enhances 	the	global 	coverage 	
capacity 	of	our	centralized 	specialist 	
team. 	The	ESRM 	team 	shares 	information 	
and	best	practices 	with	ESRM 	Champions 	
to	support 	and	strengthen 	the	entire 	
network.
When 	the	viability 	of	a	deal	is	first	
explored, 	our	ESRM 	team 	works 	with	Citi	
bankers 	to	evaluate 	the	magnitude 	of	the	
potential 	environmental 	and	social 	impacts 	
associated 	with	the	transaction 	and	to	
determine 	what 	action, 	if	any,	is	needed 	to	
comply 	with	our	ESRM 	Policy 	prior 	to	final	
approval 	of	the	transaction. 	If	Citi	receives 	
a	mandate 	to	move 	forward 	with	a	trans -
action 	that	involves 	such 	risks, 	the	ESRM 	
team 	continues 	to	work 	with	the	banking 	
team 	to	conduct 	due	diligence 	commensu -
rate	with	the	risks 	faced.
Higher-risk, 	p roject-related 	t ransactions 	
may	receive 	in-depth 	reviews 	by	indepen -
dent 	environmental 	and	social 	consultants 	
to	benchmark 	against 	international 	
standards. 	If	gaps 	are	found 	between 	a	
client’s 	environmental 	and	social 	plans, 	
policies 	or	practices 	and	international 	
standards, 	we	require 	the	development 	of	
an	Environmental 	and	Social 	Action 	Plan	
(ESAP) 	to	fill	the	gaps. 	As	a	condition 	of	
financing, 	we	require 	the	client 	to	imple -
ment 	the	ESAP 	by	specifying 	covenants 	
in	the	loan	agreement, 	and	we	monitor 	
its	progress 	over	time. 	In	some 	cases, 	
we	decline 	to	participate 	in	a	transaction 	because 	we	do	not	believe 	we	can	
adequately 	address 	the	environmental 	and	
social 	risks 	through 	mitigation 	measures 	
or	because 	the	risks 	are	too	high.
Applying 	our	ESRM 	Policy 	helps 	us	to	
identify 	risks 	beyond 	traditional 	credit 	
risks, 	guides 	how	we	evaluate 	transactions 	
related 	to	companies 	or	projects 	in	high-
risk	sectors 	and	presents 	opportunities 	
for	us	to	advise 	clients 	on	solutions 	to	
thematic 	risks. 	
Over 	the	last	few	years, 	we	have 	seen 	a	
rapid 	increase 	in	the	volume 	and	variety 	
of	transactions 	flagged 	for	ESRM 	review. 	
This	is	due	to	increased 	interest 	from 	
regulators 	on	ESRM-related 	issues 	and	the	
growth 	in	ESG-related 	financial 	products, 	
as	well	as	greater 	engagement 	across 	
the	firm	as	employees 	receive 	additional 	
training 	and	become 	more 	aware 	of	the	
potential 	environmental 	and	social 	risks 	in	
the	transactions 	they	are	managing. 	For	
example, 	the	responsibility 	and	activities 	
of	our	ESRM 	team 	have 	expanded 	in	recent 	
years 	to	account 	for	increasing 	attention 	and	concern 	related 	to	climate 	risk.	For	
information 	about 	our	approach 	and	
management 	activities 	in	this	area, 	see	the	
Climate 	Risk	and	Net	Zero 	section .	
The	ESRM 	section 	of	our	Environmental 	
and	Social 	Policy 	Framework 	outlines 	the	
scope 	of	our	ESRM 	Policy, 	including 	the	
types 	of	transactions 	that	trigger 	a	review, 	
and	provides 	additional 	detail 	about 	our	
risk-screening 	practices 	and	categories, 	
independent 	reviews 	and	action 	plans. 	The	
Framework 	also	includes 	an	overview 	of	
our	Areas 	of	High 	Caution, 	sector-specific 	
approaches 	and	policy 	prohibitions.
Ongoing 	engagement 	with	our	clients 	is	
an	important 	part	of	our	ESRM 	process. 	
When 	we	first	established 	our	ESRM 	policy, 	
our	engagements 	were 	tied	to	specific, 	
project-related 	financial 	transactions 	and	
their 	associated 	environmental 	and	social 	
risks 	and	mitigation 	efforts. 	However, 	as	
we	have 	developed 	Sector 	Approaches 	
and	Areas 	of	High 	Caution 	over	the	years, 	
we	have 	added 	corporate-level 	reviews 	
and	client 	engagements 	in	a	number 	of	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
116
sectors. 	These 	sector-specific 	risk	review 	
processes 	encourage 	dialogue 	between 	
Citi	a nd 	o ur 	c lients 	a bout 	t he	m aterial 	e nvi-
ronmental 	and	social 	risks 	associated 	with	
their 	operations, 	enabling 	us	to	develop 	a	
better 	understanding 	of	prevailing 	indus -
try	practices 	and	our	clients’ 	performance 	
and	to	guide 	our	clients 	toward 	more 	
sustainable 	practices.
Monitoring the Changing 
Risk Landscape
The	ESRM 	team 	uses 	a	number 	of	methods 	
to	proactively 	scan 	the	changing 	risk	
landscape 	for	new, 	emerging 	risks, 	as	well	
as	risks 	with	increased 	prominence 	and	
prevalence. 	Through 	internal 	research, 	
engagement 	with	our	regional 	ESRM 	
Champions, 	collaboration 	with	others 	in	
our	industry, 	and	the	use	of	third-party 	
environmental 	and	social 	data, 	we	monitor 	
relevant 	developments 	in	high-risk 	industries 	and	stakeholder 	concerns 	to	
flag	emerging 	issues.
Proactive 	monitoring 	enables 	us	to	identify 	
issues 	and	the	interrelated 	impacts 	of	
various 	sectors, 	so	we	can	be	responsive 	
to	evolving 	risks, 	raise 	awareness 	within 	
Citi	about 	emerging 	issues 	and	identify 	
clients 	that	may	be	impacted 	for	further 	
engagement. 	We	are	beginning 	to	
incorporate 	new	tools 	to	scan 	for	emerging 	
environmental 	and	social 	risks. 	The	team 	
has	reviewed 	a	range 	of	technologies 	
for	use	in	our	due	diligence 	approach, 	
such 	as	environmental 	DNA	gathering 	to	
conduct 	biodiversity 	baseline 	studies 	and	
benchmark 	improvements 	in	biodiversity 	
values 	over	time. 	This	technique 	enables 	
the	analysis 	of	DNA	in	water 	or	soil	
samples 	to	identify 	the	fauna 	living 	in	a	
given 	project 	area	without 	the	need 	to	
visually 	verify 	their 	presence. 		Another 	way	we	monitor 	risk	is	by	conduct -
ing	sector-specific 	reviews 	to	identify 	and	
mitigate 	emerging 	risks 	in	our	existing 	
portfolio. 	These 	evaluations 	are	based 	on	
information 	published 	or	provided 	by	the	
client 	as	well	as	information 	from 	special -
ized	ESG	rating 	agencies 	and	topic-specific 	
databases. 	This	process 	enables 	us	to	
better 	understand 	how	our	clients 	manage 	
environmental 	and	social 	issues 	and	
provides 	valuable 	insight 	into	the	level 	of	
related 	risk	across 	our	portfolio. 	In	2021, 	
we	conducted 	reviews 	of	our	mining, 	oil	
and	gas,	and	power 	portfolios 	as	well	as	a	
portfolio 	review 	of	our	clients 	in	Malaysia 	
related 	to	human 	rights .	PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY AND ADDRESSING RESETTLEMENT CONCERNS IN PANAMA CITY
In 2021, Citi, in coordination with other financial institutions, closed a $2 billion transaction to finance Metro Line 3, 
an expansion of Panama City’s metro system. Citi worked with Consorcio HPH,  a consortium of Korean companies 
responsible for the construction of Metro Line 3. Because this is a project-related corporate loan for more than  
$50 million, due diligence processes required an independent review before the close of the transaction. Consorcio HPH 
and the lenders engaged environmental and social consultant, ERM, to evaluate the project’s environmental and social 
impacts and benchmark management plans against international standards. This due diligence revealed two primary 
risks related to the project: potential biodiversity impacts and physical/economic displacement of individuals and businesses along the path of the new metro line. 
To address biodiversity concerns and align the project with IFC Performance Standard 6 for biodiversity , ERM performed 
a Critical Habitat Assessment to study potential impacts on migratory and/or congregatory species within the project’s 
area of influence. ERM identified an Important Bird Area, including habitat for species such as the broad-winged hawk, 
Swainson’s hawk and turkey vulture. The assessment revealed that a small area of Critical Habitat (0.54 hectare) would 
be directly impacted by the project. In order to ensure a net gain of critical habitat and no net-loss of natural habitat, Consorcio HPH will implement reforestation and biodiversity monitoring programs to measure results.    
After a review of impacts related to resettlement and livelihood displacement, it was determined that the project’s need 
for resettlement would be minimal. Nonetheless, Consorcio HPH is working with Metro de Panama S.A. (MPSA) to ensure that proper protocols are followed when engaging with residents about the need for resettlement, attaining willing seller 
consent, providing adequate compensation and developing livelihood restoration plans for those who may be impacted. 
MPSA is also working with a social  consultant to enhance its local resettlement process to align with international 
best practice, including the IFC Performance Standard 5 for resettlement . As an additional precaution, the project’s 
construction schedule is tied to review by ERM and the lenders to ensure that resettlement risks are fully assessed and benchmarked before construction begins in areas where resettlement or displacement may occur.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
117
Client Engagement
Our	ESRM 	 team 	 is	 collaborating 	 with	 our	
Sustainability 	a nd	Co rporate 	T ransitions 	
team 	to	engage 	 with	 clients 	 working 	 to	
transition 	t oward 	m ore 	su stainable 	s trat-
egies 	 and	 business 	 models. 	 This	 provides 	
opportunities 	f or	i n-depth 	d iscussions 	o f	
specific 	s ustainability 	t opics, 	i dentifies 	w ays 	
of	p roactively 	m itigating 	e nvironmental 	a nd 	
social 	r isks, 	a nd 	su pports 	o ur 	c lients 	i n 	t heir	
efforts 	 to	 align 	 with	 international 	 standards 	
and	b enchmarks. 	F or	e xample, 	du ring	an	
engagement 	 with	 mining 	 clients 	 in	 2021, 	 our	
ESRM 	 team 	 provided 	 insight 	 and	 analysis 	
related 	t o 	t he 	su stainable 	fi nance 	m arket 	
and	the	 challenges 	 and	 opportunities 	 for	
mining 	 companies 	 related 	 to	 environmental 	
and	social 	 risk.	 The	 breadth 	 and	 depth 	 of	 our	
ESRM 	 team’s 	 knowledge 	 in	 these 	 areas 	 is	 a	
valuable 	 tool	 to	 help	 us	 assess 	 new	 trans -
actions 	 and	 to	 guide 	 and	 advise 	 our	 clients 	
as	w e 	w ork 	t oward 	a chieving 	o ur 	net	zero	
commitment .	For	 more 	 information 	 about 	
the	work 	 Citi	 is	 doing 	 to	 help	 clients 	 transi -
tion	t o 	a 	l ow-carbon 	fu ture, 	s ee 	t he 	Financing 	
the	L ow-Carbon 	T ransition 	s ection .	Industry Collaboration
We	participate 	in	many 	environmentally 	
and	socially 	focused 	initiatives 	and	orga -
nizations, 	such 	as	the	Equator 	P rinciples 	
Association 	and	the	Roundtable 	o n	
Sustainable 	Palm 	Oil.	
Citi	is	also	a	member 	of	the	Taskforce 	
on	Nature-related 	Financial 	Disclosure s	
(TNFD) 	Forum. 	We	participated 	in	an	
informal 	working 	group 	prior 	to	the	official 	
launch 	of	the	Taskforce 	to	develop 	the	
TNFD’s 	workplan 	for	creating 	a	comple -
mentary 	framework 	to	the	Task	Force 	on	
Climate-related 	Financial 	Disclosures, 	but	
with	a	focus 	on	reporting 	nature-related 	
risks 	rather 	than 	climate-related 	risks. 	
Climate 	and	biodiversity 	are	intercon -
nected, 	and	there 	are	increasing 	concerns 	
that	climate 	change, 	along 	with	other 	
human 	activity, 	has	stressed 	natural 	
systems 	and	contributed 	to	ongoing 	
extinction 	ev ents.1	Through 	our	collabora -
tion	with	TNFD, 	we	are	able	to	contribute 	
to	important 	nature-related 	reporting 	
standards 	and	continue 	to	refine 	our	
understanding 	of	the	complex 	interaction 	of	climate 	and	biodiversity 	and	our	
connection 	with	those 	impacts 	through 	our	
financial 	relationships 	with	our	clients.
ESRM Training 
Each 	y ear, 	w e 	t rain 	k ey 	r isk 	a nd 	b anking 	
personnel 	 on	 our	 ESRM 	 Policy 	 to	 help	 them 	
identify 	t riggers 	f or	en gagement 	w ith	
our	ESRM 	 specialist 	 team. 	 Topics 	 include 	
environmental 	 and	 social 	 risks 	 relevant 	
to	c ertain 	r egions 	a nd	se ctors, 	im plemen -
tation 	 of	 the	 Equator 	 Principles 	 and	 Citi’s 	
Sector 	A pproaches, 	a s	w ell	a s	s pecific 	
topics 	su ch 	a s 	h uman 	r ights, 	b iodiversity 	
and	e merging 	c limate 	r isk 	a nalysis. 	D ue 	t o	
increased 	f ocus 	f rom	k ey	s takeholders 	in 	
ESG	i ssues, 	m ore 	b ankers 	a cross 	o ur 	fi rm	
are	r eceiving 	E SRM 	t raining, 	w hich 	e nables 	
them 	 to	 spot	 potential 	 risks 	 and	 engage 	
with	 our	 ESRM 	 team 	 more 	 effectively. 	 In	
total, 	 950	 Citi	 employees 	 underwent 	 ESRM 	
training 	d uring 	2 021, 	s ignificantly 	m ore 	t han	
in	2 020. 	A ll 	t raining 	i n 	2 021 	w as 	c onducted 	
on	live	 webinars 	 for	 employees 	 globally. 	
1.	See	Anthony 	D.	Barnosky 	et	al.,	Has the Earth’s Sixth Mass Extinction ... ,	471	NATURE 	51,	51	(2011); 	Gerardo 	Ceballos 	et	al.,	Vertebrates on the Brink ... ,	117	(24)	PNAS 	13596 	(2020);
Belinda 	Reyers 	&	Elizabeth 	R.	Selig, 	Global Targets that Reveal ... ,	4	NATURE 	ECOLOGY 	&	EVOLUTION 	1011	(2020).Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
118
2021 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles
As part of our commitment to the Equator Principles 
(EP), we report annually on our implementation. 
A
B
CFunded EP Project  
Finance Loans
Total = 2 Total = 70 2
2 5
0 0Funded EP Project-Related 
Corporate Loans
Category A —  Projects likely to have potential 
significant adverse social or environmental impacts that 
are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented
Category B — Projects likely to have potential limited 
adverse social or environmental impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures
Category C — Projects likely to have minimal or no 
social or environmental impacts
FUNDED PROJECT FINANCE LOANS BREAKDOWN FUNDED PROJECT-RELATED CORPORATE LOANS BREAKDOWN
By Sector A B C Total
Oil & Gas 0 1 0 1
Mining 0 1 0 1
Infrastructure 0 1 0 1
Other 2 2 0 4
By Region A B C Total
United States and Canada 0 0 0 0
Latin America 0 3 0 3
Europe 1 0 0 1
Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 0
Asia Pacific 1 2 0 3
By Country Designation A B C Total
Designated* 0 0 0 0
Non-designated** 2 5 0 7
By Independent Review A B C Total
Yes 2 4 0 6
No 0 1 0 1
*	 		D esignated 	 Countries 	 as 	 defined 	 by 	 EP 	 are 	 high-income 	 OECD 	 countries. 	 See 	 the 	Equator 	Principles 	website 	for	more 	information.
**		N on-designated 	 Countries 	 as 	 defined 	 by 	 EP 	 are 	 all 	 non-OECD 	 countries 	 and 	 all 	 OECD 	 countries 	 not 	 designated 	 as 	 high 	 income.
Note: 	Citi	had	no	EP	Project 	Finance 	Advisories, 	Acquisitions 	or	Refinancings 	in	2021.By Sector A B C Total
Power 0 1 0 1
Oil & Gas 0 1 0 1
By Region A B C Total
United States and Canada 0 1 0 1
Latin America 0 1 0 1
Europe 0 0 0 0
Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 0
Asia Pacific 0 0 0 0
By Country Designation A B C Total
Designated* 0 1 0 1
Non-designated** 0 1 0 1
By Independent Review A B C Total
Yes 0 2 0 2
No 0 0 0 0Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
119
ESRM Consultation Data
The ESRM team is consulted in the early stages of potential transactions, as well as during select annual credit reviews 
in higher risk sectors or clients. The data on this page show the total transactions and client relationships screened by 
the ESRM team, regardless of whether a transaction proceeded to financial close.
For	more 	information 	on	our	ESRM 	Policy, 	including 	how	we	categorize 	loans, 	visit	our	Environmental 	and	Social 	Policy 	Framework
Citi	received 	external 	assurance 	of	our	Equator 	Principles 	data 	from 	SGS. 	For	our	SGS	Assurance 	Statement, 	see	the	Assurance 	section .243
United States 
 and Canada151
Europe143
Global  
(multiple regions)
113
Middle East  
and Africa257
Asia Pacific228
Latin America1,135
2021 Total
ESRM CONSULTATIONS
636BY REGION
BY SECTOR
 68  Forestry &  
Agribusiness
 44  Infrastructure &  Transportation
 47  Manufacturing  
& Industrials
 175 Metals & Mining
 222  Oil, Gas & Petrochem
 120  Power  
(Including Renewables)
 66 Other2021601
141
266
1271,135
 ESRM policy due diligence  
Flagged for additional ESRM  due diligence  under ESRM Policy triggers
 New transactions      
  Annual reviews
 Sustainable finance products  
Green bonds, sustainablity-linked bonds or loans etc., screened against relevant International Capital Market Association principles
 Low risk  
Low risk or not subject to ESRM  Policy - no further due diligene required
2020319
100
66
151Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
120
Serving 	Our	Customers 		
and	Clients 	Responsibly
We have policies and systems 
in place to help ensure that we 
always treat customers responsi -
bly and fairly, such as our Code of Conduct and the internal checks 
and balances we employ when 
creating new products.
Responsible Marketing
We	a re 	c ommitted 	t o 	o ffering 	c lients 	a n 	
array 	o f 	p roducts 	a nd 	s ervices 	b ased 	o n 	
their 	 needs, 	 wants 	 and	 preferences, 	 while 	
adhering 	 to	 our	 internal 	 policies 	 and	 proce -
dures 	 as	 well	 as	 applicable 	 laws	 and	 regula -
tions. 	W e 	w ork 	d iligently 	t o 	c learly 	d isclose 	
all	f eatures 	a nd 	t erms 	a nd 	c onditions, 	
including 	ap plicable 	f ees	an d	c harges, 	f or	
the	p roducts 	a nd 	s ervices 	o ffered, 	s o 	t hat 	
clients 	c an 	s elect 	a nd 	u se 	t he 	p roducts 	o r 	
services 	b est 	su ited 	t o 	t hem.
Our	c hosen 	n ame 	i nitiative 	f or 	U .S. 	
Branded 	 credit 	 card	 members 	 offers 	
transgender 	 and	 nonbinary 	 customers 	 the	
ability 	 to	 use	 their 	 chosen 	 first	 name 	 on	
their 	e ligible 	c ard 	a nd 	w ithin 	o ur 	s ervicing 	
channels. 	 As	 of	 early 	 2022, 	 more 	 than 	
22,000 	 customers 	 had	 updated 	 their 	 first	
name 	 on	 their 	 physical 	 credit 	 cards, 	 and	
citi.com/updatemyname 	had	 received 	
more 	 than 	 210,000 	 visits. 	 Most 	 impor -
tantly, 	 we’ve 	 received 	 notes 	 like	 this	 from 	
customers: 	 “I	 wish	 that	 there 	 was	 some -
thing 	 like	 this	 when 	 I	 began 	 my	 transition. 	
This	 will	 remove 	 one	 of	 the	 many 	 worries 	
that	 we	 have 	 all	 had	 when 	 we	 were 	 intro -
ducing 	 our	 true	 selves 	 to	 the	 world.”
To	c elebrate 	t he 	l aunch 	o f 	t he 	c hosen 	
name 	i nitiative, 	w e 	c reated 	a n 	a dvertising 	
campaign 	 featuring 	 people 	 from 	 across 	
the	gender 	 diversity 	 spectrum, 	 both 	 in		front 	 of	 and	 behind 	 the	 camera. 	 This	 initia -
tive	has	 been 	 a	 significant 	 step	 forward 	 in	
helping 	 this	 community 	 feel	 recognized, 	
accepted 	 and	 empowered. 	 In	 recognition 	
of	its	 impact, 	 the	 initiative 	 was	 honored 	
as	one	 of	 Fast	 Company’s 	 2021 	 World 	
Changing 	I deas.
Another 	example 	of	how	we	continue 	to	
amplify 	our	purpose-driven 	initiatives 	is	
through 	Citi’s 	global, 	mission-led 	part-
nership 	with	the	International 	Paralympic 	
Committee, 	which 	focuses 	on	positively 	
changing 	societal 	perceptions 	of	people 	
with	disabilities. 	Over 	the	past	several 	
years 	of	our	partnership, 	Citi	sponsored 	23	
National 	Paralympic 	Committees 	and	more 	
than 	50	Para 	athletes 	across 	the	globe 	in	
their 	quest 	to	compete 	at	the	highest 	level.
In	Summer 	2021, 	we	celebrated 	our	Team 	
Citi	Para 	athletes 	and	showed 	the	world 	
that	“It’s	Okay 	to	Stare” 	at	the	talents 	and	
accomplishments 	of	the	disability 	commu -
nity	through 	the	#StareAtGreatness 	
campaign. 	Our	advertising 	and	social 	
media 	campaign 	successfully 	raised 	
awareness 	of	the	incredible 	achievements 	of	these 	athletes 	and	others 	within 	the	
disability 	community, 	earning 	recognition 	
as	a	finalist 	in	two	categories 	at	the	2022 	
Halo 	Awards. 	In	early 	2022, 	Citi	extended 	
the	#StareAtGreatness 	campaign 	with	15	
sponsored 	Team 	Citi	Winter 	Para 	athletes 	
to	continue 	driving 	conversations 	around 	
the	world.
As	part	of	Citi’s 	Action for Racial Equity 	
goals, 	we	are	collaborating 	with	our	
agency 	partners 	to	increase 	the	percent -
age	of	people 	of	color 	working 	on	Citi	
accounts 	and	to	increase 	representation 	
of	people 	of	color 	in	our	marketing. 	By	
the	end	of	2023, 	we	aspire 	to	achieve 	the	
following:
Aim to increase representation in the 
agencies we work with
	•People 	of	color 	making 	up	at	least 	25% 	
of	the	agency 	teams 	working 	on	Citi	
accounts
	•People 	of	color 	comprising 	at	least 		
8%	of	senior 	agency 	leadership, 	in	line	
with	Citi’s 	own	commitmentDESIGNING FOR ACCESSIBILITY
As we strive to put all customers at the center of what we do, we recognize 
the importance of providing products and services that meet accessibility 
needs and preferences. The videos our U.S. Branded Cards business creates 
to heighten customer comprehension of key topics are designed to be fully accessible. This includes real-time descriptive transcripts, embedded closed 
captions and content readability.
In addition, we offer Braille and talking ATMs, large print and Braille 
statements and raised-line checks for the visually impaired. We also offer 
TTY or Text Telephone for the hard of hearing. Many of our services are 
provided in multiple languages to support the diverse populations we serve, and our products are tailored to meet the needs of the individuals in the 
countries where we do business.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
121
Aim to increase representation in our 
marketing
	•People 	of	color 	making 	up	at	least 		
25% 	of	casting 	for	Citi	marketing
	•Aim	for	at	least 	25% 	of	brand 	stories 	
highlighting 	m inority-owned 	b usinesses 	
and	organizations 	annually
To	cultivate 	greater 	diversity 	and	inclusiv -
ity	in	our	marketing 	and	communications, 	
we	collaborated 	with	Getty 	Images 	to	
develop 	Diversity, 	Equity 	&	Inclusion 	(DE&I) 	
Imagery 	Toolkits. 	Each 	toolkit 	harnesses 	
Getty 	Images’ 	proprietary 	data	(Visual 	
GPS) 	and	Kantar’s 	Global 	MONITOR 	
research 	to	provide 	marketers, 	communi -
cators 	and	creatives 	with	useful 	insights 	to	
create 	authentic 	and	multifaceted 	depic -
tions 	of	people 	in	our	global 	marketing 	
and	communications. 	We	began 	rolling 	out	these 	toolkits 	in	2021, 	including 	in	the	
United 	States, 	and	will	launch 	in	additional 	
markets 	 in	 2022. 	 The	 toolkits 	 feature 	 coun -
try-specific 	data	and	consumer 	insights 	to	
capture 	cultural 	and	regional 	nuances, 	and	
custom 	training 	is	provided 	to	Citi	employ -
ees	for	each 	market. 	The	toolkits 	will	be	
available 	to	the	public 	on	the	Getty 	Images 	
DE&I 	Imagery 	Toolkit 	hub.	
These 	 initiatives 	 are	 just	 some 	 examples 	
of	our	 firm-wide 	 commitment 	 to	 promote 	
activities 	 that	 are	 in	 the	 best	 interests 	 of	
our	clients. 	 More 	 broadly, 	 new	 products 	 are	
approved 	b y	c ross-functional 	co mmittees 	
that	 include 	 senior 	 executives 	 from 	 Risk, 	
Legal, 	 our	 Independent 	 Compliance 	 Risk	
Management 	 team 	 and	 other 	 relevant 	 units, 	
supported 	b y 	s pecialists 	f rom 	C onsumer 	
Fairness, 	a s 	needed .	C iti	a lso	do es	p eri-
odic	 testing 	 or	 monitoring 	 of	 marketing 	materials 	a nd 	d isclosures. 	I n 	a ddition, 	
Personal 	B anking 	&	W ealth 	M anagement 	
has	a	 global 	 approach 	 for	 handling 	
customer 	 complaints 	 and	 concerns 	 in	 a	
timely 	 and	 effective 	 manner, 	 in	 line	 with	 our	
commitment 	 to	 provide 	 financial 	 services 	
responsibly 	a nd	t reat	c ustomers 	f airly.
 Helping Customers Give Back
We offer our U.S. cardholders an opportunity to make a difference 
by turning their ThankYou® Points into charitable gifts to nonprofits. 
In 2021, we joined the (RED)EEM initiative which enables eligible 
cardmembers to make donations with PayPal’s Pay with Rewards 
feature and supports organizations working to ensure equitable access to COVID-19 testing, treatment and vaccines in the 
world’s poorest countries. We also expanded the list of eligible 
organizations to include Susan G. Komen. The list also includes 
American Red Cross, No Kid Hungry, UNICEF USA and others. 
Since 2014, Citi’s support has also helped No Kid Hungry provide up 
to 290 million meals for the millions of kids facing hunger across 
America. In 2021, Citi encouraged clients to enroll their Citi credit 
cards in the Dine and Do Good campaign. For every $5 or more spent dining out, Citi donated $1 to No Kid Hungry until the $1 million 
donation goal was met. Additionally, on Giving Tuesday, Citi engaged 
colleagues and general consumers to help raise enough to provide more than 10 million meals in a single day, with Citi’s support alone 
driving 40% of dollars raised.
No Kid Hungry is the only national campaign solely 
dedicated to ending childhood hunger. Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
122
Eliminating Overdraft Fees for Our Customers’ Financial Wellness
Citi recently announced plans to eliminate overdraft fees, returned item fees and overdraft protection transfer fees for U.S. 
Retail Banking consumers by Summer 2022. This makes Citi the only top-five U.S. bank (based on assets*) to completely eliminate 
these fees, and it demonstrates our commitment to expanding access to inclusive banking products and services that can help 
advance economic progress, especially for underbanked and unbanked populations. 
For 20 years, we have put measures in place to minimize overdraft fees for our consumers in order to put their financial wellness 
first. In addition to the upcoming changes, Citi will also continue to offer a robust suite of overdraft protection transfer services 
for our consumers including: 
• Overdraft Protection Transfer Services: Citi offers two services that help consumers avoid checking account overdrafts and 
retutrned items — Safety Check  and Checking Plus® (variable rate) line of credit . The fees associated with these services will 
also be eliminated.    
• Access Account Package: Citi’s industry-leading, checkless account package with low or avoidable monthly charges provides consumers with a simple, transparent way to manage their finances and systemically limits point-of-sale, ATM and ACH 
transactions that could cause negative balances.
• Common Sense Protection Measures: Citi will not authorize ATM or point-of-sale debit transactions in cases when funds are not available.
• Low Balance Alerts: Consumers can enroll in Low Balance Alerts via their account online or through the Citi Mobile® App.
 The elimination of overdraft fees complements many of our firm-wide Action for Racial Equity  efforts in the United States that 
aim to expand banking and credit for communities of color. 
*	https://www.bankrate.com/banking/biggest-banks-in-america/ .
CITI’S TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY 
PRINCIPLES
We aim to deliver products and services that provide 
value, clarity and dependability, guided by the Treating 
Customers Fairly principles that define the standards 
for our products and services. These principles include:
Works as described: Consumers can predict how 
products and services will work.
Appropriate:  Consumers can rely on Citi to offer 
appropriate products and services that meet their 
needs.
Value:  Consumers receive value that is reasonably 
related to the cost of the products and services.
Ease of understanding: Consumers understand the 
terms and conditions of the products and services 
(particularly limitations and exclusions). 
 In November 2021, we opened a new branch and Client Center at 
our global headquarters in New York City.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
123
Treating Customers 
Fairly
Through 	Citi’s 	commitment 	to	our	Treating 	
Customers 	Fairly 	principles 	and	our	Global 	
Consumer 	Fairness 	Policy, 	we	strive 	to	
earn 	and	maintain 	the	public’s 	trust 	by	
adhering 	to	high	ethical 	standards 	in	
conducting 	our	business.
The	Global 	Consumer 	Fairness 	Policy 	
provides 	a	framework 	for	reviewing 	
consumer 	fairness 	concerns 	and	a	
sustainable 	model 	for	managing 	emerging 	
risks. 	The	policy 	covers 	all	aspects 	of	the	
consumer 	product 	and	services 	life	cycle, 	
including 	new	product 	development, 	
marketing, 	sales 	(including 	variable 	
incentive 	compensation), 	underwriting 	
and	onboarding, 	as	well	as	all	other 	
stages. 	There 	are	established, 	formalized 	
escalation 	processes 	to	Citi’s 	governance 	
committees 	and	Board 	of	Directors 	that	facilitate 	consistent, 	timely 	and	
appropriate 	identification, 	analysis 	and	
escalation 	of	potential 	consumer 	fairness 	
and	reputational 	and	franchise 	risk	issues. 	
In	relation 	to	designing 	variable 	incentive 	
plans, 	we	consider 	a	number 	of	factors, 	
including 	whether 	plans 	align 	with	our	
Treating 	Customers 	Fairly 	principles. 	For	
example, 	we	leverage 	client 	satisfaction 	
metrics, 	where 	available, 	along 	with	other 	
product-based 	metrics, 	to	incentivize 	
achieving 	business 	results 	that	adhere 	to	
internal 	policies 	and	our	Code 	of	Conduct. 	
We	routinely 	evaluate 	incentive 	plans, 	
training 	content, 	controls, 	monitoring 	
results 	and	oversight 	activities 	to	maintain 	
a	sales 	force 	that	delivers 	on	Citi’s 	
commitment 	to	serving 	our	customers 	with	
fairness, 	value, 	clarity 	and	dependability.
As	part	of	the	program, 	Personal 	Banking 	
&	Wealth 	Management 	and	Institutional 	
Clients 	Group 	employees 	complete 	annual 	
Treating 	Customers 	Fairly 	training 	to	ensure 	they	understand 	how	to	identify 	
issues 	of	fairness 	and	how	fairness 	influ-
ences 	real-world 	results. 	The	2021 	course 	
was	launched 	to	more 	than 	95,000 	Citi	
employees 	globally. 	
We	also	have 	measures 	in	place 	to	monitor 	
sales 	practices, 	including 	auditing 	and	
metrics 	that	assess 	client 	risk	profiles. 	
When 	appropriate, 	we	proactively 	contact 	
delinquent 	clients, 	using 	their 	credit 	risk	
profile 	and	previous 	payment 	perfor -
mance 	to	determine 	how	quickly 	and	
how	often 	to	contact 	them. 	We	ensure 	
that	contact 	strategies 	are	vetted 	for	
privacy 	and	fairness 	considerations 	before 	
implementation.
The	Global 	Financial 	Access 	Policy 	is	a	key	
component 	of	our	commitment 	to	fair	and	
equitable 	access 	to	products 	and	services. 	
This	policy 	establishes 	the	guiding 	
principles 	and	minimum 	standards 	for	fair,	
equitable 	and	nondiscriminatory 	access 	to	
credit. 	Further, 	it	prohibits 	discrimination 	
against 	actual 	or	prospective 	clients 	on	
the	basis 	of	race, 	ethnicity, 	sex	(which 	
encompasses 	gender 	as	well	as	sexual 	
orientation, 	gender 	identity 	and	gender 	
expression), 	religion, 	national 	origin, 	
disability 	or	other 	prohibited 	factors. 	
This	commitment 	is	backed 	by	training, 	
processes, 	controls 	and	oversight 	to	
prevent 	discrimination. 	In	addition, 	we	
continually 	work 	to	understand 	evolving 	
discrimination 	risks 	and	update 	our	
approach 	to	preventing 	such 	risks 	in	our	
business 	s trategies, 	a s 	w ell 	a s 	i n 	t he 	d esign 	
and	delivery 	of	our	products 	and	services.
True 	to	our	commitment 	to	responsible 	
finance, 	we	hold	an	annual 	Fair	and	
Inclusive 	Banking 	offsite 	with	senior 	
management 	from 	across 	the	company, 	to	
deepen 	their 	understanding 	of	fair	lending, 	
consumer 	fairness 	and	accessibility. 	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
124
Human 	Rights
Citi’s rigorous human rights 
policies, standards and due 
diligence practices guide our 
business and lending decisions. 
We consistently engage with our 
employees, suppliers, peers and 
industry experts, as well as civil 
society organizations focused on 
our clients and the projects we 
finance, to advance the protection 
of human rights.
Our Commitment 
to Respect Human 
Rights 
We	are	committed 	to	respecting 	human 	
rights 	wherever 	we	do	business. 	We	
engage 	human 	rights 	experts, 	clients 	and	
peers 	to	support 	our	efforts 	to	respect 	
human 	rights 	in	line	with	the	UN	G uiding 	
Principles 	on	Business 	and	Human 	Rights 	
—	a	global 	framework 	for	preventing 	and	
addressing 	the	risk	of	adverse 	impacts 	on	
human 	rights 	linked 	to	business 	activity. 	
The	UN	Guiding 	Principles 	draw 	upon 	
existing 	international 	human 	rights 	instru -
ments 	whose 	principles 	Citi	has	endorsed, 	
such 	as	those 	in	the	UN	Universal 	
Declaration 	of	Human 	Rights 	and	the	
International 	Labour 	Organization’s 	(ILO) 	
Core 	Conventions. 	To	illustrate 	our	imple -
mentation 	of	the	UN	Guiding 	Principles, 	we	
have 	mapped 	how	this	ESG	Report 	aligns 	
with	the	UN	Guiding 	Principles 	Reporting 	
Framework 	(see	index ).
Citi	r egularly 	u pdates 	o ur 	p olicies 	a nd	
practices 	t o 	s trengthen 	o ur 	h uman 	r ights 	
due	d iligence. 	D uring 	t he	de velopment 	
and	su bsequent 	u pdates 	o f 	o ur 	Statement 	
on	H uman 	R ights ,	w hich 	w e 	fi rst 	a dopted 	
in	2 007, 	w e 	en gaged 	i nternal 	a nd	e xternal 	stakeholders 	t o	h elp	a ssess 	ou r	a ctual 	
and	p otential 	h uman 	r ights 	i mpacts 	a nd	
to	i dentify 	t he 	m ost 	s alient 	h uman 	r ights 	
risks 	f aced 	b y 	o ur 	e mployees, 	w orkers 	
connected 	t o 	o ur 	su pply 	c hain 	a nd	
individuals 	w ho 	m ight 	b e 	a ffected 	b y 	o ur	
clients’ 	o perations.
Citi’s 	 Environmental 	 and	 Social 	 Risk	
Management 	( ESRM) 	P olicy, 	su mmarized 	
in	o ur 	Environmental 	 and	 Social 	 Policy 	
Framework ,	guides 	 our	 approach 	 to	 assess -
ing	environmental 	 and	 social 	 risks 	 related 	 to	
financing 	o ur 	c lients’ 	b usiness 	a ctivities. 	F or	
more 	 information 	 about 	 our	 ESRM 	 Policy 	
and	our	 related 	 due	 diligence 	 processes, 	
see	t he 	Environmental 	 and	 Social 	 Risk	
Management 	s ection 	of	this	 report.We	regularly 	review 	and	update 	our	ESRM 	
Policy 	to	ensure 	that	it	reflects 	our	most 	
recent 	understanding 	of	potential 	envi-
ronmental 	and	social 	risks. 	For	example, 	
during 	2021, 	we	updated 	the	Policy 	to	
include 	a	formal 	prohibition 	against 	
financing 	for	companies 	whose 	primary 	
business 	is	constructing 	or	operating 	
private 	prisons. 	Although 	we	do	not	have 	
such 	clients 	directly 	connected 	to	private 	
prisons, 	we	decided 	to	formalize 	this	policy 	
prohibition 	for	the	future 	in	alignment 	with	
our	Action for Racial Equity 	commitments. 	
ELEVATING ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE CONCERNS FOR 
ENHANCED DUE DILIGENCE
Over the last several years, there has been growing global acknowledgment 
that climate change is a human rights issue. In 2021, the UN Human Rights 
Council recognized the right to a healthy environment as a stand-alone 
human right. Citi has also recognized for many years the right to a healthy environment and the need to evaluate the potential environmental risks 
to communities surrounding the industrial developments we finance. For 
example, due diligence related to environmental justice concerns is critical for identifying projects with significant impacts to local communities 
from fossil-fuel-related activities, including extraction, refinement and 
transportation or air and water pollution due to heavy industry.  
Environmental justice is also important as we consider low-carbon projects 
with positive environmental benefits that might have negative impacts 
on local communities. For example, a dam construction project to create 
renewable hydro-electric power could threaten human rights if it is sited without consideration of the rights of Indigenous or other marginalized 
peoples. While we want to champion projects that help combat climate 
change, we need to keep our eyes open to other adverse impacts that may occur, particularly in relation to already marginalized communities.   
As of 2020, we formalized environmental justice as a specific risk within  
the Areas of High Caution section of our ESRM Policy that triggers enhanced due diligence. Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
125
Our Salient Human  
Rights Risks
Citi	has	spent 	more 	than 	a	decade 	seeking 	
to	understand 	and	mitigate 	the	most 	
salient 	human 	rights 	risks 	related 	to	our	
business 	—	those 	that	pose 	the	greatest 	
risk	to	people 	—	including 	the	activities 	of	
our	clients 	and	other 	business 	partners.
The	most 	severe 	potential 	risks 	posed 	to	
people 	by	our	clients’ 	activities, 	partic -
ularly 	in	the	context 	of	project-related 	
finance, 	are	identified 	under 	our	ESRM 	
Policy. 	Our	work 	to	address 	these 	risks 	
began 	in	2003 	when 	we	helped 	to	found 	
the	Equator 	P rinciples 	(EP)	framework 	to	
enhance 	and	standardize 	risk	management 	
across 	the	banking 	sector, 	established 	an	
internal 	ESRM 	team, 	and	began 	developing 	
our	risk	identification 	and	mitigation 	
policies 	and	procedures. 	While 	our	formal 	
ESRM 	processes 	give	us	the	most 	leverage 	
when 	we	are	directly 	financing 	a	project, 	we	also	screen 	for	human 	rights 	risks 	and	
opportunities 	to	engage 	clients 	in	other 	
types 	of	corporate 	financing 	covered 	by	
our	ESRM 	Policy 	and	in	targeted 	ESRM 	
portfolio 	reviews 	of	high	risk	sectors 	
or	geographies. 	In	addition, 	we	work 	to	
identify 	and	address 	salient 	human 	rights 	
risks 	that	could 	arise 	in	other 	areas 	of	
our	value 	chain 	such 	as	our	supply 	chain, 	
our	workforce 	and	our	consumer 	banking 	
activities. 	For	a	full	list	of	our	salient 	
human 	rights 	risks 	and	the	stakeholders 	
they	may	impact, 	see	the	table 	on	the	
following 	page.
Efforts 	 to	 achieve 	 racial 	 equity 	 and	 promote 	
diversity 	 and	 inclusion 	 relate 	 directly 	 to	
the	protection 	 of	 human 	 rights, 	 as	 these 	
efforts 	 seek 	 to	 remedy 	 disparities 	 and	
protect 	in dividuals 	f rom	d iscrimination 	o n	
the	basis 	 of	 essential 	 characteristics. 	 We	
have 	 identified 	 salient 	 human 	 rights 	 risks 	
in	t his 	a rea, 	in cluding 	d iscrimination 	in	t he	
provision 	 of	 financial 	 services 	 and	 threats 	to	diversity 	 and	 inclusion. 	 You	 can	 learn 	
about 	C iti’s 	Action for Racial Equity 	commit -
ments, 	 established 	 in	 2020, 	 and	 additional 	
inclusion 	i nitiatives 	r elated 	t o 	o ur 	supply 	
chain ,	o ur	workforce 	and	 the	communities 	
we	serve 	t hroughout 	t his	r eport.
For	human 	rights 	concerns 	related 	to	a	
particular 	client, 	transaction 	or	portfolio, 	
we	escalate 	those 	issues 	to	the	relevant 	
internal 	Reputation 	Risk	Committee. 	
In	addition, 	in	2021, 	we	established 	an	
Asia	Pacific 	Human 	Rights 	Task	Force, 	
comprised 	of	senior 	bankers 	and	risk	
managers. 	The	aim	of	the	task	force 	is	to	
enable 	a	more 	standardized 	approach 	to	
addressing 	salient 	human 	rights 	risks 	that	
arise 	in	that	region. 	For	more 	information 	
about 	our	governance 	of	ESG	issues, 	
including 	human 	rights, 	see	the	ESG	
Governance 	at	Citi	section .	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
126
Salient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder Impacts
This table illustrates which stakeholders could be impacted by the human rights risks we have identified as most salient 
to our company. Rows shaded in gray indicate risks related to the Areas of High Caution defined in our ESRM Policy and trigger additional due diligence for project transactions, general corporate purpose transactions and regular reviews of client relationships. Additional context about our approach to mitigate these risks and related due diligence processes can be found throughout this report, in our Statement on Human Rights and in our Environmental and Social Policy Framework . 
Human Rights Risks Citi’s EmployeesSuppliers’ 
EmployeesCustomers  
and ClientsThose Affected by 
Clients’ Operations
Adequate standard of living;  
right to property
Conflict risk
Discrimination in the provision  
of financial services
Diversity and inclusion;  
discrimination in the workplace
Indigenous Peoples
Information security; privacy
Labor practices  
(including modern slavery)
Resettlement
Security practicesContents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
127
Addressing Forced Labor in Malaysia 
 
Migrant laborers have the potential to become the victims of forced labor practices, due largely to the significant debt they incur through the process of recruitment, obtaining travel documentation and gaining entry into a foreign country. During 2021, this issue gained heightened attention due to the increased focus of the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol on migrant working conditions, with the agency issuing a number of Withhold Release Orders refusing entry of products into the U.S. market that were suspected of being made in whole or in part by forced labor. This included several Malaysian companies involved in the manufacture of personal protective equipment and palm oil products.   
When migrant workers arrive in Malaysia, they sometimes find that the salaries they earn are too low to cover the cost of repaying recruitment fees 
and expenses. Compounding the problem, their employers often withhold employee identity documents. This can put migrant workers in a precarious position as they are dependent on their job to repay their debts and, if they face challenging working conditions, they may be unable to look for other employment given the inaccessibility of their work permits and identity documents.  
Citi has a longstanding prohibition against providing financing to any company that uses forced labor practices as defined by the ILO’s 11 Forced 
Labour Indicators. The Citi Malaysia team partnered with our global ESRM team to conduct a portfolio review in Malaysia to determine which Citi clients may have higher risk for potential forced labor practices and whether those clients have policies and procedures in place to address that risk. Out of hundreds of corporate and subsidiary client relationships reviewed, we identified 29 in higher-risk sectors with high migrant labor employee populations that required enhanced ESRM due diligence to assess client practices against international labor practices. In situations where this review uncovered high risks that were not adequately addressed through company policies and practices, or when credible accusations of forced labor existed, we engaged those clients on improvements needed. When necessary, we required clients to bring in labor rights experts to audit and suggest improvements for their policies and procedures, and we set up regular meetings to assess progress to close these gaps. 
While this is an important step, we also acknowledge that due to the long history of precarious migrant labor working conditions in Malaysia, and in 
other countries that rely on similar systems, it will take time and continued work to raise awareness to change ingrained practices. With this in mind, Citi Malaysia and the ESRM team took an additional step to educate clients and raise awareness by working with a forced labor expert to develop a webinar for our Malaysian clients. This webinar focused on international standards based on the ILO’s Forced Labour Indicators, risk identification methodologies and best practices for preventing forced labor in corporate operations and supply chains, such as employer payment of recruitment fees, reimbursement of debt, ethical recruitment procedures, employee access to identity documents, and proper pay, overtime management and grievance mechanisms. More than 100 clients in Malaysia attended this webinar and it was very well received.  
Learn more about this issue on the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and ILO  websites. 
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
128
Respecting the  
Human Rights of  
Our Employees
We	expect 	every 	Citi	employee 	to	adhere 	
to	our	Code 	of	Conduct ,	which 	includes 	
a	commitment 	to	human 	rights, 	and	to	
participate 	in	relevant 	training. 	Our	Code 	
of	Conduct 	prohibits 	unlawful 	discrimina -
tion,	harassment 	and	other 	behavior 	that	
infringes 	on	individual 	rights. 	As	stated 	
in	our	Code 	of	Conduct, 	Citi	expects 	all	
employees, 	as	well	as	suppliers, 	clients 	and	
community 	partners 	globally 	to	respect 	
the	principle 	of	nondiscrimination.
Citi	has	identified 	workplace 	discrimination 	
and	threats 	to	diversity 	and	inclusion 	
as	salient 	human 	rights 	risks 	for	our	
company. 	As	such, 	respect 	for	diversity 	
and	inclusion 	is	a	high	priority 	wherever 	
we	operate. 	It	can	become 	a	particular 	
concern 	in	countries 	where 	there 	is	no	
legal 	p rotection 	a gainst 	d iscrimination 	
based 	on	gender, 	gender 	identity, 	race, 	
ethnicity, 	age,	religion, 	physical 	or	mental 	
disability 	or	medical 	condition, 	or	sexual 	
orientation, 	in	addition 	to	a	range 	of	other 	
essential 	characteristics 	inherent 	to	iden-
tity	and	personhood. 	Citi	prohibits 	discrim -
ination 	and	harassment 	of	our	employees 	
in	all	forms, 	regardless 	of	whether 	or	not	
individual 	 protections 	 are	 legally 	 mandated 	
in	the	countries 	and	communities 	where 	
we	operate. 	In	fact,	we	know 	that	even 	in	
locations 	with	anti-discrimination 	laws, 	
there 	is	still	a	need 	for	companies 	to	
ensure 	that	they	are	doing 	their 	part	to	
respect 	individual 	rights.
In	2021, 	 we	 established 	 a	 team 	 in	 the	
United 	S tates 	t o 	i dentify 	a nd 	a ccelerate 	
hiring 	o f 	d iverse 	t alent. 	W e 	a lso 	s trive 	t o	
increase 	t he 	d iversity 	o f 	o ur 	w orkforce 	
through 	t he 	u se 	o f 	d iverse 	s lates 	i n 	o ur	
hiring 	p rocess 	a nd 	b y 	s etting 	a spirational 	
goals 	r elated 	t o	di verse 	r epresentation 	
for	A ssistant 	V ice 	P resident 	t o 	M anaging 	Director 	l evels. 	C iti 	h as 	a lso 	s igned 	t he	
Human 	R ights 	C ampaign’s 	Business 	
Statement 	O pposing 	A nti-LGBTQ+ 	S tate	
Legislation .	L earn 	m ore 	a bout 	o ur	
diversity, 	e quity 	a nd 	i nclusion 	e fforts 	
in	t he 	Talent 	a nd 	D iversity ,	Equity 	&	
Inclusion 	s ection .
Freedom of Association
Citi	has	employees 	who	are	represented 	by	
unions 	and	works 	councils 	in	a	number 	of	
countries 	where 	we	operate. 	In	addition, 	
a	portion 	of	our	employee 	population 	
is	covered 	by	collective 	bargaining 	
agreements. 	We	engage 	directly 	with	our	
employees 	and	through 	these 	associations 	
to	discuss 	issues 	such 	as	health 	and	safety, 	
remuneration, 	work 	hours, 	training, 	career 	
development, 	work 	time	flexibility 	and	
equal 	opportunity. 	Information 	related 	to	
freedom 	of	association 	is	communicated 	
to	employees 	through 	various 	mediums, 	
including 	employee 	handbooks, 	our	
intranet 	and	employee 	emails.
Extending Respect 
for Human Rights 
Through Our Suppliers
Our	nondiscrimination 	policies 	extend 	
to	Citi’s 	suppliers, 	and	we	do	not	work 	
with	suppliers 	that	are	discovered 	to	
discriminate 	on	the	basis 	of	personal 	
characteristics, 	such 	as	gender, 	race	and	
sexual 	orientation. 	Since 	1977, 	we	have 	
used 	our	supplier 	diversity 	program 	to	
empower 	communities 	around 	the	world. 	
We	communicate 	our	approach 	to	human 	
rights 	to	our	suppliers 	in	our	Statement 	
of	Supplier 	Principles .	Our	approach 	is	
reinforced 	by	our	Corporate 	Responsibility 	
Questionnaire 	(CRQ). 	This	questionnaire 	
helps 	our	procurement 	team 	determine 	
how	potential 	and	current 	suppliers 	
manage 	environmental 	and	social 	issues, 	
including 	human 	rights 	issues.Building 	on	our	prior 	efforts, 	we	have 	
updated 	and	expanded 	our	CRQ	to	improve 	
supplier 	engagement 	and	evaluation 	of	
their 	operations. 	The	latest 	assessment 	
expands 	on	our	previous 	questions 	in	the	
areas 	of	modern 	slavery, 	supplier 	diversity, 	
environmental 	sustainability, 	corporate 	
responsibility, 	labor 	rights 	and	workplace 	
safety. 	In	addition, 	we	have 	introduced 	
additional 	screening 	related 	to	modern 	
slavery 	for	suppliers 	in	high-risk 	sectors 	
and	countries. 	
Citi	is	committed 	to	SDG 8 ,	which 	aims 	
to	promote sustained, inclusive and 
sustainable economic growth, full and 
productive employment and decent work 
for all .	This	is	exemplified 	by	our	work 	to	
fight 	modern 	slavery 	in	our	value 	chain, 	
along 	with	our	related 	reporting, 	policies, 	
due	diligence 	and	risk	assessments. 	In	
particular, 	our	initiatives 	in	these 	areas 	
address 	target 	8.7,	which 	includes 	a	
mandate 	to	eradicate forced labor, end 
modern slavery and human trafficking 	
and	end child labor in all its forms .	
SDG Goal 8:  Decent Work and Economic 
Growth 
MODERN SLAVERY 
DISCLOSURES
Each year, we disclose  our 
approach to identifying and 
mitigating the risks of modern 
slavery in our operations (including client transactions) 
and in our supply chain. The 
disclosures cover information about our governance and 
policies related to modern 
slavery, risk assessment and due diligence processes, and training. 
In 2021, we released our first 
Modern Slavery Statement specific to Australia.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
129
Respecting Human 
Rights in Our 
Financing Decisions
Effectively 	evaluating 	human 	rights 	risks 	
related 	to	our	clients 	and	the	projects 	we	
finance 	is	challenging. 	We	work 	diligently 	
to	meet 	this	challenge 	and	respect 	the	
human 	rights 	of	the	individuals 	and	
communities 	impacted 	by	the	clients 	we	
finance 	and	their 	projects.
We	have 	established 	policies 	and	practices 	
that	help	us	influence 	the	protection 	of	
human 	rights. 	For	instance, 	our	anti-money 	
laundering 	efforts 	help	us	prevent 	crimi -
nally 	sourced 	funds 	—	including 	funds 	asso -
ciated 	with	human 	rights 	abuses, 	such 	as	
human 	trafficking 	—	from 	passing 	through 	
our	bank. 	Disrupting 	the	flow	of	money 	to	
those 	perpetrating 	human 	rights 	abuses 	
and	denying 	those 	abusers 	safe	harbor 	for	
illicit 	proceeds 	tied	to	corruption 	or	human 	
rights 	violations 	are	effective 	ways 	to	
undermine 	their 	efforts.
Additionally, 	under 	our	U.S.	Commercial 	
Firearms 	Policy, 	adopted 	in	2018, 	we	
require 	clients 	or	partners 	that	are	
U.S.	firearms 	retailers 	or	firearms 	
manufacturers 	that	sell	through 	U.S.	
retail 	channels 	to	adhere 	to	a	set	of	best	
practices 	regarding 	the	sale	of	firearms. 	
For	retailers, 	these 	practices 	include 	
selling 	firearms 	only	to	individuals 	who	
have 	completed 	a	background 	check, 	not	
selling 	high-capacity 	magazines 	or	bump 	
stocks 	(which 	modify 	semiautomatic 	
firearms 	to	fire	faster, 	at	rates 	comparable 	
to	fully	automatic 	firearms), 	and	selling 	
firearms 	to	individuals 	under 	age	21	only	if	
they	have 	received 	firearms 	safety 	training 	
(e.g., 	as	part	of	active 	or	former 	military 	or	
law	en forcement 	em ployment 	o r	v ia	hu nter	
safety 	training). 	For	manufacturers, 	best	
practice 	entails 	selling 	firearms 	only	to	
retailers 	that	follow 	these 	same 	practices.Such 	examples 	illustrate 	our	ability 	to	
proactively 	avoid 	certain 	business 	trans -
actions 	with	adverse 	impacts 	on	human 	
rights, 	but	other 	situations 	can	occur 	
in	which 	the	link	between 	our	financial 	
services 	and	human 	rights 	impacts 	is	less	
direct. 	That 	complexity 	may	mean 	we	have 	
less	leverage, 	and	it	diminishes 	our	ability 	
to	ensure 	that	on-the-ground 	outcomes 	
are	consistent 	with	Citi’s 	values. 	In	these 	
instances, 	we	work 	to	improve 	our	clients’ 	
awareness 	and	business 	practices. 	In	
addition, 	where 	a	transaction’s 	financial 	
and	legal 	structure 	allows 	it,	we	put	loan	
covenants 	in	place 	and	monitor 	mitigation 	
efforts 	through 	our	ESRM 	systems 	and	
corrective 	action 	plans.
Due Diligence in Client 
Transactions
Citi	has	thousands 	of	corporate 	and	insti-
tutional 	clients. 	The	UN	Guiding 	Principles 	
acknowledge 	the	challenges 	presented 	by	extensive 	business 	relationships, 	and	
we	have 	adopted 	the	approach 	set	out	in	
the	UN	Guiding 	Principles 	of	prioritizing 	
our	due	diligence 	and	risk	mitigation 	first	
in	areas 	where 	the	risk	of	adverse 	human 	
rights 	impact 	is	most 	significant 	from 	the	
perspective 	of	the	people 	who	may	be	
affected.
We	use	our	ESRM 	Policy, 	where 	applicable, 	
to	assess 	and	manage 	risks 	consis -
tently 	and	to	evaluate 	client 	operations 	
against 	a	common 	set	of	standards 	
grounded 	in	international 	best	practice, 	
including 	the	UN	Guiding 	Principles 	on	
Business 	and	Human 	Rights, 	ILO	Forced 	
Labour 	Indicators, 	Voluntary 	Principles 	
on	Security 	and	Human 	Rights, 	and	
International 	Finance 	Corporation 	(IFC) 	
Performance 	Standards, 	among 	other 	
international 	human 	rights 	norms 	and	
emerging 	standards. 	Our	ESRM 	team 	
screens 	transactions 	covered 	by	our	
ESRM 	Policy 	during 	the	initial 	marketing 	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
130
phase 	to	identify 	potential 	heightened 	
environmental 	or	social 	risks 	related 	to	
the	client. 	Our	policy 	prohibits 	financing 	
any	project 	for	which 	our	due	diligence 	
identifies 	the	use	of	forced 	labor, 	harmful 	
or	exploitative 	child 	labor, 	or	when 	the	
relevant 	labor 	forces 	have 	been 	subjected 	
to	human 	trafficking. 	Under 	the	ESRM 	
Policy, 	Citi	screens 	for	human 	rights 	risks 	in	project-related 	transactions 	and	
clients 	subject 	to	ESRM 	sector-specific 	
requirements. 	In	addition, 	the	ESRM 	Policy 	
includes 	Areas 	of	High 	Caution, 	which 	
identify 	flags 	for	heightened 	human 	rights 	
risk	factors 	to	escalate 	to	the	specialized 	
ESRM 	team 	for	review 	regardless 	of	finan -
cial	product 	or	sector.
If,	d uring 	o ur 	i nitial 	s creening 	f or 	a 	t rans-
action, 	w e 	fi nd 	a 	r isk 	o f 	a dverse 	i mpacts, 	
we	c onduct 	m ore	i n-depth 	d ue	d iligence, 	
and	w e 	e valuate 	t he 	c lient’s 	c ommitment 	
and	c apacity 	t o 	a void, 	m itigate 	a nd/or 	
manage 	t hose 	i mpacts 	i n 	a ccordance 	
with	i nternational 	i ndustry 	b est 	p ractices 	
and	h uman 	r ights 	n orms 	a nd 	t he 	c lient’s 	
willingness 	t o 	c ontinuously 	i mprove. 	W e 	
escalate 	t he 	m ost 	c hallenging 	c ases 	w ith 	
the	h ighest 	p otential 	f or 	a dverse 	i mpacts 	
to	s enior 	b usiness 	a nd 	r isk 	m anagers 	f or 	
collective 	d iscussion 	o n 	t he 	r isks 	a nd 	t he 	
client’s 	c ommitment 	a nd 	c apacity. 	I n 	s ome 	
cases, 	s enior 	m anagement 	w ill 	c onclude 	
that	t he 	l ikelihood 	f or 	a dverse 	i mpacts 	
is	t oo 	g reat 	— 	p osing 	a n 	i mminent 	t hreat 	
to	p eople 	o r 	c ommunities 	— 	a nd 	w e 	w ill 	
decline 	i nvolvement 	i n 	t he 	t ransaction. 	I n 	severe 	c ircumstances, 	w here 	w e 	c annot 	
otherwise 	e ffectively 	i nfluence 	di fferent 	
human 	r ights 	o utcomes 	d espite 	o ur 	b est 	
efforts 	o f 	su stained 	e ngagement, 	w e 	w ill 	
end	t he 	c lient 	r elationship. 	T his 	i s 	a 	m ove 	
we	t ake 	v ery 	s eriously, 	s ince 	w e 	r ecognize 	
that	i t 	c an 	h ave 	a 	n umber 	o f 	r amifica -
tions, 	i ncluding 	r emoving 	a ny 	l everage 	
we	m ight 	o therwise 	h ave 	h ad 	t o 	i mprove 	
practices 	o ver 	t ime 	t hrough 	c onstructive 	
engagement.
After 	the	financial 	close 	of	a	transaction 	
or	a	client 	onboarding 	that	was	subject 	
to	a	time-bound 	environmental 	and	social 	
action 	plan, 	we	monitor 	the	company’s 	
implementation 	of	those 	actions. 	For	
project-related 	transactions 	this	often 	
involves 	the	retention 	of	an	independent 	
environmental 	and	social 	risk	consultant 	
who	periodically 	reports 	to	lenders 	after 	
on-the-ground 	audits. 	In	addition, 	for	
non-project 	related 	transactions 	where 	
human 	rights 	risks 	have 	been 	flagged 	for	
ongoing 	monitoring, 	our	ESRM 	team 	uses 	
annual 	client 	credit 	reviews 	as	touchpoints 	
to	assess 	progress 	on	human-rights-
related 	issues.Protection of 
Indigenous Rights  
in Latin America 
Citi understands that Indigenous 
Peoples’ distinct identities, 
languages, beliefs, cultural values, 
lands and use of natural resources may be under threat, representing 
a higher degree of vulnerability. 
Activities that may impact 
Indigenous People have long been 
acknowledged as an Area of High Caution under our ESRM Policy, and 
require enhanced due diligence.  
In 2021, we put additional emphasis 
on the evaluation of our Latin 
American oil and gas clients and 
mining clients during new trans -
actions and annual credit reviews, 
to continue identifying clients 
with operations that may overlap 
Indigenous territories. All clients 
were assessed on their community engagement and biodiversity 
management practices. When 
overlap with Indigenous territories was identified, Citi engaged clients 
to assess how they incorporated 
free, prior and informed consent into their engagement practices 
with Indigenous Peoples.
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
131
Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
 
Citi’s ESRM team screens transactions under the ESRM Policy for potential human rights risks. The specific types of human rights risks we screen for are outlined in the table below. Further data related to ESRM Policy screening can be found in the Environmental and Social Risk Management sectio n.
When human rights risks are identified for a project-related transaction during screening, the ESRM team may either decline to approve the oppor -
tunity outright, if the risks are deemed too high to address, or we may outline what further due diligence would be needed for the transaction to proceed. There are a number of reasons why initial opportunities may not move forward, including a client declining to move forward with our due diligence review requirements.
If an opportunity progresses to the due diligence phase, our requirements include gaining access to project information that allows us to benchmark 
according to relevant standards, such as the IFC Performance Standards, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ILO Forced Labour Indicators and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights among other international human rights norms. In project-related lending this due diligence would be supported by a qualified independent consultant. In circumstances where a project is not aligned with applicable international standards, we will not approve financing until we are satisfied that the client has appropriate plans and capacity to mitigate project risks. For example, in 2021 we declined a project-related financing opportunity for an industrial agricultural project in Africa with concerns related to involun -
tary resettlement, child labor and biodiversity impacts. 
For general corporate-level transactions (e.g., renewing revolving credit facilities, issuing corporate bonds) that have elevated human rights risks, 
we have less direct leverage than in project-related financing, but we review our clients’ policies and practices relevant to human rights issues to evaluate their ability to avoid, manage and minimize these risks. We also engage our clients to understand their implementation of those policies and whether they have appropriate staffing to manage these issues, and we review and encourage strong disclosures of human rights policies. 
Human Rights Risks Screened During Transaction Reviews
Conflict Risk: Project-induced conflict risk, which may be tied to competition for resources or land
Cultural Heritage: Properties and sites of archaeological, historical, cultural, artistic and religious significance; 
unique environmental features and cultural knowledge; intangible forms of culture embodying traditional lifestyles 
Environmental Justice: Potential environmental risks to historically marginalized communities, especially 
surrounding industrial developments
Indigenous Peoples: Concerns regarding the extent to which Indigenous communities are consulted during project 
development and have consented to impacts to their land, livelihood and cultural heritage
Labor Risks: Risks related to labor forces used in the construction of projects or other operations, including those 
associated with forced labor, child labor and human trafficking by project operators and their subcontractors
Resettlement: Resettlement of local communities, including Indigenous groups, as necessary for project 
implementation; requires resettlement action plans and should include efforts to gain the free, prior and informed 
consent of Indigenous communities
Security Practices: Concerns about how project sponsors engage with public or private security forces protecting 
project sites
Water: Project-related impacts that hinder access to water or negatively affect water quality for local communitiesContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
132
Providing Access  
to Remedy
The	UN	Guiding 	Principles 	call	on	
governments 	and	companies 	to	play	their 	
respective 	roles 	in	ensuring 	that	victims 	of	
human 	rights 	abuse 	have 	access 	to	effec -
tive	remedy. 	Remedy 	can	take	many 	differ -
ent	forms, 	including 	apologies, 	financial 	
or	nonfinancial 	compensation, 	or	efforts 	
to	prevent 	future 	harm 	through 	policy 	
commitments 	and	changes 	in	operational 	
practice. 	The	purpose 	of	remedy 	is	to	help	
make 	victims 	whole 	again 	or	to	restore 	
them, 	as	much 	as	possible, 	to	their 	lives	
and	enjoyment 	of	their 	rights 	before 	those 	
rights 	were 	violated. 	Remedy 	can	also	help	
ensure 	that	they	and	others 	will	not	suffer 	
similar 	harm 	in	the	future.
When 	 we	 are	 made 	 aware 	 of	 a	 potentially 	
severe 	a dverse 	hu man	r ights 	im pact, 	
our	a pproach 	t o 	r emedy 	u sually 	i nvolves 	
working 	w ith 	c lients 	t o 	e nsure 	t hey 	h ave 	t he	
right 	 policies 	 in	 place 	 and	 that	 channels 	 are	
available 	 to	 enable 	 victims 	 to	 lodge 	 griev -
ances. 	 In	 addition, 	 in	 line	 with	 our	 ability 	
to	p rioritize 	a dverse 	im pacts 	b ased 	o n	
severity, 	 we	 will	 encourage 	 clients 	 to	 follow 	
up	on	 allegations 	 and	 to	 have 	 established 	
processes 	 to	 offer 	 remedy 	 or	 to	 cooperate 	
with	a uthorities 	t o 	m ake 	su re 	e ffective 	
remedy 	 is	 provided. 	 For	 example, 	 in	 2021, 	
as	t he 	r esult 	o f 	o ur 	p ortfolio 	r eview 	i n	
Malaysia 	 related 	 to	 forced 	 labor 	 and	 related 	
client 	en gagement, 	s everal 	c lients 	h ave	
improved 	 their 	 practices 	 in	 this	 area, 	 or	
are	in	 the	 process 	 of	 doing 	 so,	 by	 providing 	
workers 	c ompensation 	f or	r ecruitment 	f ees	
and	c onstructing 	b etter 	ac commodations 	
to	house 	 those 	 working 	 for	 them. 	
Learning and 
Engagement  
 
Engaging Stakeholders 
To	ensure 	that	we	are	living 	up	to	our	
commitment 	to	respect 	human 	rights 	and	anticipate 	emerging 	risks, 	we	regularly 	
communicate 	our	approach 	externally, 	
engage 	with	stakeholders 	on	their 	issues 	
of	concern 	and	work 	to	advance 	respect 	
for	human 	rights 	more 	broadly. 	
During 	2021, 	we	led	an	Equator 	Principles 	
Association 	collaboration 	with	Shift 	to	
develop 	enhanced 	guidance 	for	EP	finan -
cial	institutions 	for	evaluating 	adequate 	
grievance 	mechanisms 	and	access 	to	
remedy. 	Citi	is	also	a	member 	of	the	Shift 	
Financial 	Institutions 	Practitioners 	Circle, 	
through 	which 	we	participate 	in	workshops 	
related 	to	skill	building 	on	human 	rights 	
due	diligence 	for	ESRM 	practitioners 	and	
deep 	dives 	into	emerging 	salient 	human 	
rights 	risks. 	This	collaboration 	has	helped 	
us	refine 	our	approach 	to	forced 	labor 	and	
human 	rights 	in	the	Asia	Pacific 	region. 	
In	addition, 	 we	 continued 	 to	 pay	 close 	
attention 	t o 	h uman 	r ights 	i ssues 	ra ised	
by	s takeholders 	r egarding 	s pecific 	i ndus -
tries. 	I n 	2 021, 	c oncerns 	w ere 	ra ised 	b y	
stakeholders 	 relating 	 to	 the	 oil	 and	 gas,	
manufacturing, 	 technology 	 and	 palm 	 oil	
sectors. 	 We	 engage 	 with	 these 	 industries 	
directly 	t hrough 	c lient	r elationships, 	s take-
holder 	 meetings 	 and	 active 	 participation 	 in	
relevant 	 initiatives. 	 For	 instance, 	 our	 partic -
ipation 	 in	 the	 Roundtable 	 on	 Sustainable 	
Palm 	 Oil	 enables 	 us	 to	 engage 	 with	 multiple 	
stakeholders 	c onnected 	t o	t he	p alm	o il	
value 	 chain, 	 to	 improve 	 the	 collective 	 effort 	
to	reduce 	 human 	 rights 	 risks 	 associated 	
with	 this	 commodity. 	 In	 addition, 	 our	 touch 	
points 	 during 	 annual 	 reviews 	 allow 	 us	 to	
evaluate 	 human 	 rights 	 risks 	 and	 manage -
ment 	t hrough 	c lient	en gagements.
Although 	banks 	are	often 	under 	pressure 	
to	disclose 	specific 	findings 	related 	to	
client 	projects, 	we	are	bound 	by	legal 	
requirements 	related 	to	confidentiality 	
that	limit	our	ability 	to	disclose 	such 	infor -
mation 	without 	client 	consent. 	As	a	result, 	
addressing 	requests 	for	transparency 	is	
a	balancing 	act	between 	protecting 	the	
confidentiality 	of	our	clients’ 	information 	and	disclosing 	information 	to	stakeholders 	
as	appropriate 	to	advance 	the	protection 	
of	human 	rights. 	
Reporting Mechanisms  
for Stakeholders
Our	Ethics 	Hotline 	provides 	a	way	for	our	
employees, 	suppliers 	and	other 	external 	
stakeholders, 	including 	the	public, 	to	
report 	concerns 	about 	unethical 	behavior 	
to	Citi’s 	Ethics 	Office. 	Stakeholders 	and	
whistleblowers 	can	report 	violations 	to	the	
Ethics 	Hotline 	using 	a	24-hour 	phone 	line,	
email 	address, 	fax	line,	website 	or	physical 	
mailing 	a ddress.
In	addition, 	for	project-related 	finance, 	
we	apply 	the	Equator 	Principles 	to	assess 	
and	manage 	environmental 	and	social 	
risks. 	This	includes 	an	assessment 	of	the	
project 	sponsor’s 	stakeholder 	engagement 	
process, 	as	well	as	its	operational-level 	
grievance 	mechanisms 	that	allow 	affected 	
communities 	to	raise 	concerns 	proactively 	
with	the	project 	developers.
Employee Training
Human 	rights 	content 	is	integrated 	into	
the	training 	we	provide 	for	the	employees 	
responsible 	for	implementing 	our	ESRM 	
Policy 	and	in	our	Code 	of	Conduct 	train -
ing,	which 	is	required 	of	all	employees. 	
In	recent 	years, 	we	have 	developed 	a	
comprehensive 	training 	module 	on	modern 	
slavery, 	 which 	 we	 provided 	 to	 our	 Resource 	
Management 	Organization 	(our	employees 	
responsible 	for	procurement 	and	supply 	
chain 	activities). 	In	2021, 	we	updated 	that	
training 	with	the	goal	of	expanding 	it	to	
other 	functions 	globally.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
133
Responsible 	
Sourcing
As a global firm that engages with 
thousands of suppliers across 
the world, our commitment to 
responsible sourcing can have 
wide-ranging effects. Citi’s goal 
is to have a positive impact on 
people, the environment and the 
economy through our supply chain 
decisions. We seek to work with 
suppliers that share our values, 
and we set high standards for 
performance, measurement and responsible business practices.
We	are	committed 	to	providing 	more 	
opportunities 	for	certified 	diverse 	suppli -
ers.	Citi’s 	Supply 	Chain 	Development, 	
Inclusion 	and	Sustainability 	(SCDIS) 	
Program 	provides 	the	framework 	and	
governance 	that	guide 	Citi	employees 	
to	make 	sourcing 	decisions 	that	support 	
inclusive 	processes 	and	increase 	our	roster 	
of	diverse 	suppliers. 	Additionally, 	the	
SCDIS 	Program 	works 	across 	our	supply 	
chain 	to	enhance 	sustainability 	practices, 	
while 	mitigating 	social 	and	environmental 	
risks 	for	all	suppliers.
Supplier Diversity
Citi	is	committed 	to	integrating 	supplier 	
diversity 	across 	our	entire 	business. 	Our	
SCDIS 	team 	sets	clear 	supplier 	diversity 	
goals 	and	embeds 	them 	in	our	sourcing 	
processes. 	Every 	bid	over	$250,000 	
requires 	the	consideration 	of	diverse 	firms. 	
Promoting 	the	inclusion 	of	diverse 	suppli -
ers	in	the	bidding 	process 	helps 	us	to	build 	
a	supplier 	base 	that	more 	fully	represents 	
the	communities 	we	serve.Racial Equity
One	o f 	C iti’s 	Action for Racial Equity 		
commitments 	 is	 investment 	 in	 Black 	
entrepreneurship, 	 which 	 includes 	 a	 goal	 to	
increase 	 our	 overall 	 spend 	 with	 certified 	
diverse 	s uppliers 	t o	$ 1	b illion 	a nnually, 	
including 	$ 250 	m illion 	w ith	B lack-owned 	
firms. 	 We	 achieved 	 over	 $1	 billion 	 in	 diverse 	
supplier 	s pend 	i n 	2 021. 	W e 	h ave 	a lso 	e stab-
lished 	 a	 task	 force 	 that	 meets 	 bi-weekly 	
to	r eview 	p rogress 	a gainst 	o ur 	su pplier 	
diversity 	g oals, 	e valuate 	s pend 	w ith	di verse 	
suppliers 	a nd 	d iscuss 	n ew 	o pportunities 	
with	b roader 	i nitiatives 	ac ross	t he	c ompany.
In	2 021, 	w e 	i ntroduced 	m ore 	t han 	2 00 	
diverse 	su ppliers, 	w ho 	h ave 	e xpertise 	i n 	
information 	t echnology 	s taffing, 	l earning 	
and	d evelopment, 	c ustomer 	e xperience, 	
neurodiversity, 	c areer 	en try,	a nd	a dvertising 	
and	marketing, 	 to	 Citi	 business 	 leaders. 			Supplier Policies
Citi has detailed standards and policies, which guide responsible sourcing 
initiatives and communicate our expectations related to environmental and social 
issues to our suppliers:
• The Citi Statement of Supplier Principles  outlines the foundational guidelines 
for our sustainable supply chain initiatives, including those related to human rights in the workplace, ethical business practices, implementation of required 
management systems and environmental sustainability.
• The Citi Requirements for Suppliers  provides detailed processes and procedures 
that our suppliers must follow for contractual compliance and facilitates 
awareness of other key Citi policy obligations.
• We also ask suppliers to abide by the Citi Statement on Human Rights . For more 
information about our approach in this area, see the Human Rights section .
Consistent with applicable modern slavery regulations, Citi publishes disclosures  
outlining our approach to identifying and mitigating the risks of modern slavery in 
our operations and supply chain.
2021 SPENDING WITH  
TIER 1* DIVERSE  
SUPPLIERS
$1,212M 
spent with Tier 1  
diverse suppliers**
$432M 
spent with Tier 1  
Black-owned suppliers
$172M 
spent with Tier 1  
women-owned suppliers
*	Tier	1	suppliers 	are	those 	Citi	procures 	goods 	
and	services 	from 	directly. 	
**	This	includes 	spend 	with	many 	types 	of	
diverse 	suppliers, 	including 	Black-owned 	and	
women-owned 	fi rms.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
134
In	addition 	 to	 increasing 	 our	 spend 	 with	
diverse 	su ppliers, 	w e 	h ave 	a n 	Action for 
Racial Equity 	commitment 	 to	 strengthen 	
Citi’s 	 policies 	 and	 practices 	 to	 become 	 an	
anti-racist 	i nstitution. 	T his	i ncludes 	e xpand -
ing	C iti’s 	c apital 	m arket 	a ctivities 	w ith 	
minority-owned 	b roker-dealers 	t o	a ssist	
with	b usiness 	an d	f ranchise 	d evelopment. 	
In	2021, 	we	engaged 	diverse 	broker-
dealers 	to	participate 	in	92% 	of	Citi’s 	
benchmark 	debt	issuances, 	including 	100% 	
of	our	USD	transactions. 	During 	the	year, 	
we	also	issued 	our	first	Citi	Social 	Finance 	
bond, 	with	a	notional 	value 	of	$1	billion. 	
For	this	transaction, 	we	worked 	with	a	
syndicate 	of	minority- 	and	women-owned 	
businesses, 	of	which 	Black-owned 	broker-
dealers 	comprised 	approximately 	20%. 	In	
addition, 	to	commemorate 	Martin 	Luther 	
King	Jr.	Day,	we	worked 	exclusively 	w ith	
Black-owned 	b roker-dealers 	to	syndicate 	a	
$2.5	billion 	bond 	issuance. 	
To	promote 	additional 	opportunities, 	we	
host	an	annual 	breakfast, 	during 	which 	
our	diverse 	broker-dealers 	can	share 	best	
practices 	and	network 	with	Citi	leaders. 	
Women-Owned Businesses
Citi	is	committed 	to	procuring 	goods 	and	
services 	from 	women-owned 	businesses 	
and	identifying 	opportunities 	for	these 	
firms, 	with	an	emphasis 	in	developing 	
markets. 	In	2021, 	we	procured 	$172 	million 	
in	goods 	and	services 	from 	women-owned 	
businesses.
During 	2021, 	Citi	participated 	in	
WEConnect 	I nternational 	sessions 	for	
women-owned 	bu sinesses 	g lobally, 	
that	emphasized 	diversity 	and	supply 	
chain 	development 	and	sustainability. 	
We	also	joined 	WEConnect 	matchmaker 	
and	supplier 	showcase 	sessions 	in	Latin 	
America 	that	enabled 	women-owned 	
businesses 	to	present 	their 	capabilities 	
and	make 	connections 	with	Citi’s 	procure -
ment 	colleagues. 	Similarly, 	Citi	Indonesia 	was	part	of	capacity-building 	workshops 	
held	by	WEConnect 	to	strengthen 	market 	
access 	for	women-owned 	businesses. 	
We	worked 	with	the	Women’s 	Business 	
Enterprise 	National 	Council 	(WBENC) 	to	
expand 	our	Bridge 	built	by	CitiSM	program, 	a	
lending 	platform 	that	connects 	businesses 	
with	local 	banks 	for	loans. 	Through 	this	
partnership, 	Citi	collaborated 	with	WBENC 	
to	identify 	more 	than	2,000 	women-owned 	
businesses 	based 	in	locations 	where 	the	
Bridge 	built	by	Citi	program 	lending 	oppor -
tunity 	is	available 	to	them. 	
Additionally, 	we	rolled 	out	an	initiative 	with	
our	major 	IT	suppliers 	in	India 	to	further 	
the	participation 	of	women 	in	technology. 	
This	included 	sessions 	with	suppliers 	to	
discuss 	best	practices 	for	recruitment, 	
hiring, 	retention 	and	career 	progression 	
for	women, 	as	well	as	a	“Return 	to	Career” 	
program 	focused 	on	bringing 	women 	back 	
into	the	workforce 	who	were 	on	sabbatical 	
or	long	leave. 	
Our	efforts 	to	support 	women-owned 	
businesses 	align 	with	SDG 5: Achieve 
gender equality and empower all women 
and girls .	Our	work 	in	this	area	helps 	
address 	target 	5.5,	which 	aims 	to	ensure 
women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at 
all levels of decision-making in political, 
economic, and public life
.		
SDG Goal 5: Gender Equality  Building Capabilities  
of Diverse Suppliers
The	SCDIS 	team 	provides 	U.S.-based 	small 	
firms 	and	women-, 	veteran-, 	disability-, 	
LGBTQ+- 	and	minority-owned 	businesses 	
access 	to	business 	opportunities, 	training 	
and	mentoring. 	Our	team 	identifies 	diverse 	
suppliers, 	including 	small 	businesses 	
that	can	meet 	our	supply 	chain 	needs, 	
then 	subsequently 	works 	to	build 	their 	
capabilities.
In	2021, 	we	established 	our	Mentor-
Protégé 	program, 	designed 	to	strengthen 	
our	diverse 	suppliers’ 	capabilities 	and	
expand 	their 	opportunities 	both 	inside 	and	
outside 	Citi.	Through 	this	program, 	Citi	
connects 	established 	Tier	1	suppliers 	with	
minority-, 	Black-, 	and/or 	women-owned 	
Tier	2	suppliers 	in	a	mentoring 	relation -
ship. 	This	provides 	smaller, 	diverse 	suppli -
ers	with	an	opportunity 	to	gain	valuable 	
experience 	in	financial 	services 	and	build 	
important 	skills 	to	help	them 	compete 	in	
the	marketplace. 	One	successful 	pairing 	
within 	this	program 	is	that	of	mentor 	
company 	Tata	Consultancy 	Services 	(TCS), 	
a	Tier	1	supplier 	offering 	IT	&	Operations 	
services 	to	Citi,	and	protégé 	firm	
Technology 	Concepts 	Group 	International 	
(TCGi), 	a	Black-, 	woman-owned 	supplier 	
that	provides 	IT	services 	to	TCS	for	the	
benefit 	of	Citi.	The	unique 	element 	of	this	
pairing 	is	that	TCS	has	contextualized 	and	
structured 	the	mentorship 	around 	TCGi’s 	
current 	challenges 	and	shifted 	gears 	from 	COLLABORATING TO BUILD SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
In addition to advancing our own supplier diversity, our SCDIS team engages 
with others to support broader supplier diversity efforts. Our memberships 
with mission-centric organizations include the National LGBT Chamber of 
Commerce, WEConnect International, WBENC and the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) along with several of its global part -
ners, including the Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council, the South African Supplier Diversity Council, Minority Supplier Development UK and Supply Nation in Australia.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
135
training 	to	capability 	building. 	As	a	result, 	
TCGi 	is	building 	holistic 	expertise 	including 	
technical, 	functional 	and	soft	skills. 	
We	continue 	to	host	events 	for	diverse 	
businesses 	across 	the	globe 	to	share 	best	
practices 	for	doing 	business 	with	Citi	and	
other 	large 	companies. 	Our	global 	“Doing 	
Business 	with	Citi”	session 	is	open 	to	any	
supplier 	affiliated 	with	select 	diversity 	
certification 	agencies. 	The	2021 	event 	had	
nearly 	700	attendees, 	most 	of	whom 	were 	
diverse 	suppliers.
In	addition, 	Citi	participated 	in	the	NMSDC 	
Emerging 	Entrepreneurs 	Program, 	which 	
includes 	a	new	mentoring 	approach 	called 	
Success 	Circles. 	Entrepreneurs 	are	placed 	
with	a	group 	of	experts 	who	use	their 	
collective 	talents 	and	connections 	to	help	
the	entrepreneurs 	build 	their 	businesses. 	
Citi	also	provided 	a	scholarship 	to	the	
Tuck 	School 	of	Business 	Minority 	Business 	Enterprise 	Program 	as	part	of	this	
initiative. 	
During 	2021, 	we	collaborated 	with	the	
New	York 	&	New	Jersey 	Minority 	Supplier 	
Development 	Council 	to	host	the	11th	
annual 	Sustainability 	Symposium, 	where 	
Citi	hosted 	and	moderated 	a	Sustainability 	
panel. 	Panelists 	shared 	perspectives 	on	
supply 	chain 	sustainability, 	ESG	metrics, 	
human 	rights, 	net	zero	carbon 	emissions 	
programs 	and	the	impact 	of	COVID-19 	
on	business 	growth. 	The	panel 	included 	
leaders 	from 	Citi,	UN	Women, 	Ernst 	&	
Young 	and	Accenture.
We	continue 	to	support 	the	Broad-Based 	
Black 	Economic 	Empowerment 	(BBBEE) 	
program 	in	South 	Africa, 	maintaining 	a	
Level 	3	BBBEE 	Scorecard 	for	the	inclusion 	
of	diverse 	suppliers 	during 	2020/2021 	for	
local 	operations. 	Supplier Engagement 
and Evaluation
Since 	2013, 	the	SCDIS 	team 	has	used 	a	
Corporate 	Responsibility 	Questionnaire 	
(CRQ) 	to	gauge 	how	effectively 	our	suppli -
ers	are	managing 	critical 	issues, 	such 	as	
human 	rights, 	environmental 	manage -
ment, 	health 	and	safety, 	labor 	practices 	
and	diversity. 	
In	2020, 	we	began 	rolling 	out	an	updated 	
version 	of	this	evaluation 	tool,	which 	
includes 	an	expanded 	assessment 	in	
the	areas 	of	modern 	slavery, 	supplier 	
diversity, 	environmental 	sustainability, 	
corporate 	responsibility, 	labor 	rights 	and	
workplace 	safety. 	This	latest 	version 	of	
the	CRQ	brings 	more 	rigor 	to	our	supplier 	
assessment 	process 	and	will	continue 	to	
raise 	the	bar	for	our	ESG	practices 	across 	
Citi’s 	supply 	chain. 	It	is	also	helping 	raise 	
awareness 	about 	supply 	chain 	corporate 	
2021 Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire (CRQ) 
Surveys Completed
277
Mexico1,049
North America
277
Latin America192
Europe, Middle 
East, and Africa
1,133
Asia PacificThe CRQ is available 
in 13 languages:
 •Arabic
 •English
 •French
 •German
 •Hungarian
 •Japanese
 •Korean
 •Portuguese
 •Russian
 •Spanish
 •Turkish
 •Simplified Chinese
 •Traditional ChineseContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
136
responsibility 	with	our	colleagues 	across 	
the	company. 	
Our	goal	is	for	all	suppliers 	to	complete 	the	
CRQ	every 	two	years. 	This	helps 	improve 	
environmental 	and	social 	practices 	
throughout 	our	supply 	chain. 	
Supply Chain 
Sustainability  
Focus Areas
Citi	has	three 	sustainability 	focus 	areas 	
for	our	supply 	chain: 	paper 	and	paper 	
products, 	IT	hardware 	and	e-waste 	
disposal, 	and	travel 	and	logistics. 	We	have 	developed 	actions 	for	each 	of	these 	areas 	
and	incorporated 	them 	into	our	supply 	
chain 	Global 	Operating 	Procedures. 	
As	a	result 	of	choosing 	EPEAT-certified 	
options 	for	99% 	of	our	deployed 	servers, 	
laptops, 	desktop 	computers, 	monitors 	and	
mobile 	phones, 	we	estimate 	an	energy 	
savings 	of	273	million 	kilowatt-hours 	and	
a	greenhouse 	gas	reduction 	of	57,200 	
metric 	tons	of	CO2	over	the	life	cycle 	of	the	
products. 	
In	support 	of	responsible 	forestry, 	Citi	
made 	a	commitment 	in	2020 	to	use	
Forest 	Stewardship 	Council 	(FSC) 	Chain 	
of	Custody-certified 	paper 	for	the	outer 	envelopes 	used 	for	statements 	and	
customer 	communications. 	During 	2021, 	
we	made 	the	transition 	to	and	began 	using 	
FSC-certified 	paper 	for	outer 	envelopes. 	
We	also	began 	integrating 	a	requirement 	
for	FSC-certified 	bulk	roll	paper 	(used 	for	
printing 	statements) 	into	our	Request 	for	
Proposal 	(RFP) 	process. 	However, 	we	have 	
paused 	this	effort 	due	to	global 	supply 	
chain 	disruptions 	that	have 	posed 	serious 	
challenges 	to	sourcing 	adequate 	amounts 	
of	FSC-certified 	paper. 	We	will	reassess 	
whether 	it	is	possible 	to	move 	forward 	with	
updated 	RFPs 	in	2022 	and	continue 	to	
advance 	our	use	of	digital 	alternatives. 	
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
137
Appendices
In This Section
139	GRI	Content 	Index
150	 Sustainability 	Accounting 	Standards 		
	 Board 	Index
155	The	Principles 	for	Responsible 	Banking 	Index
168	 Task	Force 	on	Climate-related 	Financial 		
	 Disclosures 	Index
170	United 	Nations 	Global 	Compact 	Index
172	United 	Nations 	Guiding 	Principles 		
		 Reporting 	Framework 	Index
176	AssuranceContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT 138GRI Content Index
We prepared this report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. We also reported on many disclosures beyond the Core reporting op -
tion, including disclosures from the Financial Services Sector Supplement. The following index provides readers with references for where they can 
find information in this report and other public documents addressing GRI disclosures relevant to our business. All disclosures are reported fully. 
Please visit the GRI website  for the full text of the disclosures and other information on the GRI reporting framework.
Disclosure Number and Title Report Section or Other Documentation
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016
102-1  Name of the organization Citigroup Inc.
102-2  Activities, brands, products, and services • Citi at a Glance
• 2021 10-K pages 4-6, 14, 20, 22, 24, 26 and 28
102-3  Location of headquarters 388 Greenwich St., New York, NY 10013
102-4  Location of operations • Citi at a Glance
• Citi Website — Countries and Jurisdictions
102-5  Ownership and legal form • 2021 10-K pages 1 and 4
102-6  Markets served • Citi at a Glance
• 2021 10-K pages 4-9, 14, 20, 22, 24, 26 and 28
102-7  Scale of the organization • Citi at a Glance
• 2021 10-K pages 4-9
102-8  Information on employees and other 
workersCiti may engage external service providers who may be responsible for performing noncore business 
activities or engage nonemployee resources who are employed by an external third party but 
support Citi processes. These nonemployee resources could be working under Citi supervision or be 
working under the supervision of an external third party in the third party’s facility. Citi may engage external service providers or nonemployees for a variety of different business purposes, including 
project-based work for a defined period of time, specialized/niche skill sets that are not readily 
available or professional and outsourced services. There are no significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment).
• Employment Data
• 2021 10-K pages 62-64
102-9  Supply chain • Action for Racial Equity
• Responsible Sourcing
102-10  Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chain• 2021 Annual Report
102-11  Precautionary Principle or approach As discussed in the respective sections of this report, we evaluate and address risks as part of our 
Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) efforts. Our ESRM Policy prohibits activities 
we believe pose risks to us, our clients and our stakeholders. This may include taking precautionary actions.
102-12  External initiatives
• Environmental and Social Policy Framework
102-13  Membership of associations • Citi at a Glance
• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Climate Risk in Our Maritime Shipping Portfolio
• Risk Management  > Industry Collaboration
• Citi Political Activities Statement Trade Associations
• Environmental and Social Policy Framework
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker • Letter from Our CEOContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
139
Disclosure Number and Title Report Section or Other Documentation
102-15  Key impacts, risks, and opportunities • Letter from Our CEO
• ESG Governance at Citi 
• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks
• 2021 10-K pages 45-59
102-16  Values, principles, standards, and norms 
of behavior• Citi at a Glance
• Our Transformation
• Risk Management
• Citi Corporate Governance
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethics• Our Transformation  > Ethics and Culture at Citi
• Citi Code of Conduct
• Ethics Hotline 
102-18  Governance structure • ESG Governance at Citi
• Citi Corporate Governance
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 22-24
102-19  Delegating authority • ESG Governance at Citi
• Citigroup Board of Director’s Committee Charter s 
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 34-38
102-20  Executive-level responsibility for 
economic, environmental, and social topics• ESG Governance at Citi
102-21  Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental, and social topics• ESG Governance at Citi
• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Reducing Climate Risk in Our Financing
• Risk Management  > Public Policy
• Risk Management  > Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Learning and Engagement
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 12, 85-86
102-22  Composition of the highest governance 
body and its committees• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 34-38
102-23  Chair of the highest governance body The Chair of the Board is a nonexecutive, independent director.
• 2022 Proxy Statement page 29
102-24  Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 47-51
102-25  Conflicts of interest • 2022 Proxy Statement pages 25-28, 39-42 and 98
102-26  Role of highest governance body in 
setting purpose, values, and strategy• ESG Governance at Citi
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 47-51
102-27  Collective knowledge of highest 
governance body• ESG Governance at Citi
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 10-11 and 52-63
102-28  Evaluating the highest governance body’s 
performance• Corporate Governance Guidelines page 6 
• 2022 Proxy Statement page 31Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
140
Disclosure Number and Title Report Section or Other Documentation
102-29  Identifying and managing economic, 
environmental, and social impacts• ESG Governance at Citi
• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Citi’s Approach to Managing Climate Risk
• Sustainable Operations  > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
• The Principles for Responsible Banking Index > 2.1 Impact Analysis
• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter
• Risk Management Committee Charter
• 2021 10-K pages 60-61 and 118-119
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 32-34
102-30  Effectiveness of risk management 
processes• ESG Governance at Citi
• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Citi’s Approach to Managing Climate Risk
• Sustainable Operations  > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Risk Management Committee Charter
• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter
• 2021 10-K pages 66-73, 77-81, 92-100, 101-103 and 110-121
102-31  Review of economic, environmental, and 
social topics• ESG Governance at Citi 
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 32-34 and 36
102-32  Highest governance body’s role in 
sustainability reporting• Head of Global Public Affairs
102-33  Communicating critical concerns • ESG Governance at Citi > ESG Governance
• Citi Code of Conduct
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 43-44
102-35  Remuneration policies We compensate our executives fairly, based on individual and company performance, competitive 
benchmarking and support of our Mission and Value Proposition. 
• ESG Governance at Citi > Remuneration
• Compensation Philosophy
• Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 64-67
102-36  Process for determining remuneration Our Proxy Statement contains a summary of each named executive officer’s financial and nonfinancial performance goals, which are approved by the Board’s Personnel and Compensation 
Committee. We seek to design our executive pay program to motivate balanced behaviors consistent 
with our focus on long-term strategic goals. For example, diversity and inclusion, including representation of women and U.S. Black colleagues at the Assistant Vice President to Managing 
Director levels, and ethics and culture are incorporated into senior executives’ scorecards, which are 
a factor in remuneration.
• ESG Governance at Citi > Remuneration
• Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 64-67
102-37  Stakeholders’ involvement in 
remunerationCiti incorporates shareholder and stakeholder input on executive pay into our Compensation Philosophy. 
• Compensation Philosophy
• Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter
102-40  List of stakeholder groups • Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
102-41  Collective bargaining agreements • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
102-42  Identifying and selecting stakeholders • Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
• Human Rights > Learning and EngagementContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
141
Disclosure Number and Title Report Section or Other Documentation
102-43  Approach to stakeholder engagement • Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Reducing Climate Risk in Our Financing
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Human Rights > Learning and Engagement
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
102-44  Key topics and concerns raised • Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Reducing Climate Risk in Our Financing
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Human Rights > Learning and Engagement
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
102-45  Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements• 2021 10-K pages 4-6, 146
102-46  Defining report content and topic 
Boundaries• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 
102-47  List of material topics • Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 
102-48  Restatements of information • Climate Risk and Net Zero > Reducing Climate Risk in Our Financing
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Performance for Operations
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
102-49  Changes in reporting There are no significant changes from the previous reporting period.
102-50  Reporting period This report covers fiscal and calendar year 2021.
102-51  Date of most recent report April 2021
102-52  Reporting cycle Annual
102-53  Contact point for questions regarding the 
reportGlobal Public Affairs
Citigroup Inc.388 Greenwich St.
New York, NY 10013
sustainability@citi.com
102-54  Claims of reporting in accordance with 
the GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55  GRI content index
• GRI Content Index
102-56  External assurance We secure external assurance annually for data related to our reporting on the Equator Principles and environmental data for our operations.
• Assurance
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
201-1  Direct economic value generated and 
distributed• 2021 10-K pages 7-9
201-2  Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon Economy
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Sustainable Operations  > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations
• 2021 TCFD Report
• 2021 10-K pages 57-58
201-3  Defined benefit plan obligations and other 
retirement plans• Citi Benefits Handbook
• 2021 10-K pages 171-182Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
142
GRI 202: Market Presence 2016
202-1  Ratios of standard entry level wage by 
gender compared to local minimum wage We offer competitive salaries based on our Compensation Philosophy , which includes ensuring that 
entry-level employees receive competitive wages within the industry. We also offer employees the 
opportunity to take advantage of formal or informal flexible work arrangements, including part-time 
work and job sharing. We conduct a robust annual review of compensation, which includes multiple layers of reviews of compensation recommendations and pay equity analysis.
202-2  Proportion of senior management hired 
from the local communityMost employees are hired locally. When hiring for senior management, we may consider qualified candidates from across the globe.
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
203-1  Infrastructure investments and services 
supported• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon Economy
• Action for Racial Equity > Action for Racial Equity: An Update on Our Progress
• Citi Impact Fund
• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery
• Affordable Housing
• Strategic Philanthropy
203-2  Significant indirect economic impacts • Citi’s Value Proposition: A Mission of Enabling Growth and Progress
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon  Econom y
• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 
• Risk Management  > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi 
• Risk Management  > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • ESG Governance at Citi 
• Our Transformation  > Ethics and Culture at Citi
• Risk Management  > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks
205-1  Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption• Risk Management  > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks
• Anti-Bribery Program Statement
205-2  Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and procedures• Our Transformation  > Ethics and Culture at Citi
• Risk Management  > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks
• Anti-Bribery Program Statement
• Anti-Money Laundering Program
• Citi Code of Conduct
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Citi Code of Conduct
• 2021 10-K pages 66-69
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • ESG Governance at Citi
• 2021 10-K pages 66-69
206-1  Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 
anti-trust, and monopoly practices• 2021 10-K pages 296-303
GRI 302: Energy 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
143
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition
• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Our Net Zero Commitment
• Sustainable Operations  > Operational Footprint Goals
• Sustainable Progress Strategy 
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon  
Economy
• Sustainable Operations  > Operational Footprint Goals
302-1  Energy consumption within the 
organization• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Performance for Operations
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
302-3  Energy intensity • Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
302-4  Reduction of energy consumption • Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Performance for Operations
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Climate and Biodiversity
• Risk Managemen t > Environmental and Social Risk Management
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Climate and Biodiversity
• Risk Managemen t > Environmental and Social Risk Management
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
304-2  Significant impacts of activities, products, 
and services on biodiversity• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Climate and Biodiversity
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
304-3  Habitats protected or restored • Risk Management  > Protecting Biodiversity and Addressing Resettlement Concerns in Panama Cit y
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 
• 2021 TCFD Report
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Our Net Zero Commitment
• Sustainable Operations  > Operational Footprint Goals
• Sustainable Progress Strategy 
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Sustainable Operations  > Operational Footprint Goals
305-1  Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions • Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Performance for Operations
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
305-2  Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions • Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Performance for Operations
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
305-3  Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions • Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
305-4  GHG emissions intensity • Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
305-5  Reduction of GHG emissions • Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Performance for Operations
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
GRI 306: Waste 2020
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Sustainable Operations  > Operational Footprint Goals
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Sustainable Operations  > Operational Footprint Goals
• Sustainable Progress Strategy
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Sustainable Operations  > Operational Footprint GoalsContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
144
306-2  Management of significant waste-related 
impacts• Sustainable Operations  > Operational Footprint Goals
• Sustainable Operations  > Sustainable Building Principles in Action
306-3  Waste generated Citi did not generate any hazardous waste during the reporting period.
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Performance for Operations
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
308-1  New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteria• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
GRI 401: Employment 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
401-1  New employee hires and employee turnover • Employment Data
401-2  Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employees• Return to Office and the Future of Work
• Citi Benefits Handbook
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 
• Sustainable Operations  > Employee and Customer Well-Being
• Return to Office and the Future of Work
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Sustainable Operations  > Sustainable Building Principles in Action
• Sustainable Operations  > Employee and Customer Well-Being
• Return to Office and the Future of Work
• Human Rights > Freedom of Association
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Sustainable Operations  > Employee and Customer Well-Being
• Return to Office and the Future of Work
403-3  Occupational health services • Sustainable Operations  > Employee and Customer Well-Being
• Return to Office and the Future of Work
403-4  Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and safety• Sustainable Operations  > Employee and Customer Well-Being
• Human Rights > Freedom of Association
403-6  Promotion of worker health • Sustainable Operations  > Employee and Customer Well-Being
• Return to Office and the Future of Work
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion > Recruit, Retain and Promote
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion > Recruit, Retain and Promote
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Diversity, Equity & Inclusion > Recruit, Retain and Promote
404-2  Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programs• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion > Recruit, Retain and Promote
404-3  Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviewsEmployees receive formal feedback from their managers through mid-year and year-end reviews. Citi encourages employees and their managers to create individual plans that consider the skills, 
strategic development opportunities and behaviors needed to enhance current performance and prepare for future roles. These plans are discussed as part of mid-year and year-end reviews, and 
employees are encouraged to take part in stretch assignments and development programs to further 
build skills. All Citi employees have the ability to request feedback from and provide feedback to colleagues, while managers can also ask for feedback on team members throughout the year.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
145
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
405-1  Diversity of governance bodies and 
employees• Employment Data
• Board of Directors
• 2022 Proxy Statement page 30
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
407-1  Operations and suppliers in which the 
right to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining may be at risk• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Contex t
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions  
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 
408-1  Operations and suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of child laborWe have not identified any operations as having significant risk for incidents of child labor. Our business overall is not at high risk because of the nature of work in the financial services industry. In addition, we do not directly source high-risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals or any other 
raw materials, goods or services in significant amounts from suppliers in high-risk jurisdictions.
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions  
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
• Citi Modern Slavery Disclosures
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Supplier s
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and EvaluationContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
146
409-1  Operations and suppliers at significant risk 
for incidents of forced or compulsory laborWe have not identified any operations as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 
labor. In addition, we do not directly source high-risk agricultural commodities, conflict minerals 
or other raw materials in significant amounts from suppliers in high-risk jurisdictions. While our 
own business operations and supply chain are not at high risk because of the nature of work in the financial services industry, our ESRM policy includes processes to evaluate corporate clients 
to determine if they present a high risk of forced labor or compulsory labor and we have taken 
appropriate mitigating steps.
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
411-1  Incidents of violations involving rights of 
indigenous peoples• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Responsible Sourcing  
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Human Rights
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
• Citi Requirements for Suppliers 
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles
• Citi Modern Slavery Disclosures
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
412-1  Operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessments• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
412-2  Employee training on human rights policies 
or procedures• Risk Management  > ESRM Training
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Employee Training
412-3  Significant investment agreements and 
contracts that include human rights clauses or 
that underwent human rights screening• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions 
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Our Commitment to Social Finance
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Our Commitment to Social Finance
• Risk Management  > Our ESRM Policy
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy FrameworkContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
147
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Our Commitment to Social Finance
• Risk Management  > Policy Implementation
413-1  Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
• Action for Racial Equity
• Citi Impact Fund
• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery
• Affordable Housing
• Strategic Philanthropy
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Human Rights > Learning and Engagement
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
413-2  Operations with significant actual and 
potential negative impacts on local communities• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Supplier s
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
414-1  New suppliers that were screened using 
social criteria• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Risk Management  > Public Policy
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Risk Management  > Public Policy
• Citi Political Activities Statement
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Risk Management  > Public Policy
• Citi Political Activities Statement
415-1  Political contributions • Citi U.S. Political Contributions
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
417-1  Requirements for product and service 
information and labeling• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context
• Risk Management  > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • Risk Management  > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information
• Citi Code of Conduct
• Citi Online Privacy Statement
• Citi Security Center
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Risk Management  > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information
418-1  Substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data• Risk Management  > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer InformationContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
148
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016
103-1  Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a Global Context 
103-2  The management approach and its 
components • ESG Governance at Citi
• Risk Management  > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks
• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
• 2021 10-K pages 66-69
103-3  Evaluation of the management approach • Risk Management  > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks 
• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
• 2021 10-K pages 66-69
419-1  Non-compliance with laws and regulations 
in the social and economic area• 2021 10-K pages 66-69, 116-117
• 2021 Annual Report
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT
FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines 
by specific region, size (e.g., micro/SME/large) and 
by sector• 2021 10-K pages 7-28
FS8 Monetary value of products and services 
designed to deliver a specific environmental 
benefit for each business line broken down by 
purpose• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition > Transforming Our Business to Support a Low-Carbon  
Economy  
FS13  Access points in low-populated or 
economically disadvantaged areas by type• Our Commitment to Social Finance
• Action for Racial Equity
• Citi Impact Fund
• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery
• Affordable Housing
• Strategic Philanthropy
FS14  Initiatives to improve access to financial 
services for disadvantaged people• Our Commitment to Social Finance
• Action for Racial Equity
• Citi Impact Fund
• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery
• Affordable Housing
• Strategic PhilanthropyContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
149
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
This index was prepared in accordance with Industry Standards Version 2018-10 issued by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). The 
disclosures below relate to three sector standards aligned to our mix of businesses: Commercial Banks, Consumer Finance and Investment Banking & Brokerage. 
Unless otherwise noted, data and descriptions apply to our entire company, not just the businesses relevant to that sector. We do not yet disclose all metrics 
included in the sector standards, but we will continue to evaluate their relevance to our business and our ability to improve, and we will consider increasing the number of metrics we include in the future. All data is as of and for the year ended Dec. 31, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
COMMERCIAL BANKS
Topic Accounting Metric Category Code Report Section or Other Documentation
Data Security(1) Number of data breaches, (2) 
percentage involving personally 
identifiable information (PII), (3) number of account holders 
affectedQuantitative FN-CB-230a.1
Citi has a robust program that addresses the cybersecurity life cycle of 
preparedness and prevention, detection, response, mitigation, lessons learned 
and training. Cybersecurity incidents, including any data breaches, are 
reported to consumers, regulators, business partners and others as legally required and otherwise appropriate. For security reasons, Citi generally 
does not publicly reveal further details regarding the security incidents 
we may encounter in a particular year. Citi provides a general discussion of cybersecurity incidents with regard to Operational Risk in its 10-K.
• 2021 10-K pages 52 and 115-116
Description of approach to identifying and addressing data 
security risksDiscussion 
and AnalysisFN-CB-230a.2
• Risk Management  > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer  
Information
Financial Inclusion &Capacity 
Building(1) Number and (2) amount of 
loans outstanding qualified to programs designed to promote 
small business and community 
developmentQuantitative FN-CB-240a.1
Citi engages in community development efforts by equity investment through the Citi Impact Fund and financing affordable housing and 
community development projects through our Citi Community Capital 
group. Key statistics and the impacts of these efforts as well as activity to support small business lending can be found in our 2021 Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) Report. 
• Equitable and Resilient Communities > Investing in Our Communities: 
2021 Highlights
• Our Commitment to Social Finance
• Action for Racial Equity
• Citi Impact Fund
• COVID-19 Relief and Recovery
• Affordable Housing
• Strategic Philanthropy
• Citi Community Capital Website 
(1) Number and (2) amount of past due and nonaccrual loans 
qualified to programs designed 
to promote small business and community developmentQuantitative FN-CB-240a.2Citi does not report this information.
Number of no-cost retail 
checking accounts provided 
to previously unbanked or underbanked customers Quantitative FN-CB-
240a.3
In 2014, Citi launched the Access Account — a simple, checkless bank 
account with low or no monthly fees and no overdraft fees, which provides 
customers with a straightforward way to save money and manage their 
finances. As of Dec. 31, 2021, there were 336,677 active Access checking accounts. This figure excludes high-yield savings accounts. On Feb. 24, 
2022, Citi announced plans to eliminate overdraft fees, returned item fees 
and overdraft protection fees by mid-2022, representing the Company’s continued commitment to expand access to inclusive banking products 
and services that can help advance economic progress, especially for 
underbanked and unbanked communities. In addition to eliminating these fees, Citi will continue to offer a robust suite of free overdraft protection 
services for its consumers. Citi does not track if account holders were 
formerly unbanked/ underbanked.
• Risk Management  > Eliminating Overdraft Fees for Our Customers’  
Financial Wellness
• Access Account webpage
• Citi Retail Banking Overdraft Fees Change
Number of participants in financial literacy initiatives for 
unbanked, underbanked, or underserved customersQuantitative FN-CB-
240a.4
Our efforts to support underbanked individuals and small businesses are 
discussed in our 2021 ESG Report. 
• Our Commitment to Social FinanceContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
150
Topic Accounting Metric Category Code Report Section or Other Documentation
Incorporation 
of ESG 
Factors 
in Credit AnalysisCommercial and industrial credit exposure, by industryQuantitative FN-CB-410a.1
• 2021 10-K page 79
Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
factors in credit analysisDiscussion 
and AnalysisFN-CB-410a.2
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Environmental and Social Policy Framework
• 2021 10-K pages 118-119
Business 
EthicsTotal amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, 
anti-trust, anti-competitive 
behavior, market manipulation, malpractice, or other related 
financial industry laws or 
regulationsQuantitative FN-CB-
510a.1
Citi discloses all material legal and regulatory proceedings in its 10-
K, including when a suit was filed, the court, the parties involved, the 
allegations and the relief sought. Citi also discloses information regarding 
material inquiries or investigations by regulators, including any legal and regulatory proceedings associated with such business ethics matters.
• 2021 10-K pages 296-303
Description of whistleblower policies and proceduresDiscussion and AnalysisFN-CB-510a.2
• Human Rights > Reporting Mechanisms for Stakeholders
• Citi Code of Conduct pages 10-11
Systemic 
Risk 
ManagementGlobal Systemically Important 
Bank (G-SIB) score, by categoryQuantitative FN-CB-550a.1 • 2021 10-K page 31
• 2021 Systemic Risk Report (FR Y-15) 
Description of approach to incorporation of results of 
mandatory and voluntary stress tests into capital adequacy 
planning, long-term corporate 
strategy, and other business activitiesDiscussion 
and AnalysisFN-CB-550a.2
• 2021 10-K page 32
Activity 
Metric(1) Number and (2) value of checking and savings accounts 
by segment: (a) personal and (b) 
small businessQuantitative FN-CB-000.A
Citi discloses the number of end-of-period retail banking and credit card accounts by region. Citi does not disaggregate personal and small business 
accounts.
• 4Q21 Quarterly Financial Data Supplement pages 9, 12, 14 and 16
(1) Number and (2) value of loans by segment: (a) personal, 
(b) small business, and (c) corporateQuantitative FN-CB-
000.B
Citi discloses the value of outstanding consumer and corporate loans in its 
10-K. Consumer loans are reported as consumer mortgages and credit card 
loans, while personal, small business and other loans are aggregated.
• 2021 10-K pages 70-83
CONSUMER FINANCE
Topic Accounting Metric Category Code Response
Customer 
PrivacyNumber of account holders whose information is used for 
secondary purposesQuantitative FN-CF-
220a.1Citi does not report this information.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with 
customer privacyQuantitative FN-CF-220a.2
Citi discloses all material legal and regulatory proceedings in its 10-K, including when a suit was filed, the court, the parties involved, the 
allegations and the relief sought. Citi also discloses information regarding 
material inquiries or investigations by regulators. Citi did not have any material matters requiring disclosure associated with customer privacy in 
its 2021 10-K.
• 2021 10-K pages 296-303Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
151
Topic Accounting Metric Category Code Response
Data 
Security(1) Number of data breaches, (2) 
percentage involving personally 
identifiable information (PII), (3) number of account holders 
affectedQuantitative FN-CF-230a.1See response to FN-CB-230a.1.
Card-related fraud losses from 
(1) card-not-present fraud and (2) card-present and other fraudQuantitative FN-CF-230a.2Citi did not have any material fraud losses requiring disclosure.
Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risksDiscussion and 
AnalysisFN-CF-230a.3See response to FN-CB-230a.2.
Selling 
PracticesPercentage of total remuneration for covered 
employees that is variable and linked to the amount of 
products and services soldQuantitative FN-CF-270a.1Citi does not track this information.
Approval rate for (1) credit 
and (2) pre-paid products for 
applicants with FICO scores 
above and below 660Quantitative FN-CF-270a.2
Citi does not disclose its approval rates for its credit card and pre-paid products. Citi provides a FICO score distribution of outstanding North 
America Citi-Branded and Citi Retail Services card receivables in its 10-K. 
The disclosure distribution is disaggregated by scores above and below 680 and does not include pre-paid products.
• 2021 10-K pages 207-208
(1) Average fees from add-on products, (2) average APR, 
(3) average age of accounts, 
(4) average number of trade lines, and (5) average annual 
fees for pre-paid products, for 
customers with FICO scores above and below 660Quantitative FN-CF-270a.3Citi does not track this information.
(1) Number of complaints filed with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), (2) 
percentage with monetary 
or nonmonetary relief, (3) percentage disputed by 
consumer, (4) percentage that 
resulted in investigation by the CFPBQuantitative FN-CF-270a.4Citi does not report this information.
Total amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with selling and servicing of productsQuantitative FN-CF-
270a.5
Citi discloses all material legal and regulatory proceedings in its 10-
K, including when a suit was filed, the court, the parties involved, the 
allegations and the relief sought. Citi also discloses information regarding 
material inquiries or investigations by regulators associated with selling and servicing of products.
• 2021 10-K pages 296-303
Activity MetricNumber of unique consumers 
with an active (1) credit card 
account and (2) pre-paid debit card accountQuantitative FN-CF-
000.A
Citi discloses the number of end-of-period retail banking and credit card 
accounts by region. Citi does not disaggregate credit card and pre-paid 
debit card accounts nor report unique consumers.
• 4Q21 Quarterly Financial Data Supplement pages 9, 12, 14 and 16
Number of (1) credit card 
accounts and (2) pre-paid debit 
card accountsQuantitative FN-CF-
000.BCiti discloses the number of end-of-period retail banking and credit card accounts by region. Citi does not disaggregate credit card and pre-paid 
debit card accounts.
• 4Q21 Quarterly Financial Data Supplement pages 9, 12, 14 and 16Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
152
INVESTMENT BANKING & BROKERAGE
Topic Accounting Metric Category Code Response
Employee 
Diversity & 
InclusionPercentage of gender and racial/ethnic group 
representation for (1) executive management, (2) non-executive 
management, (3) professionals, 
and (4) all other employeesQuantitative FN-IB-
330a.1
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion > Representation Goals
• Employment Data
Incorporation of 
Environmental, Social, and 
Governance 
Factors in Investment 
Banking & 
Brokerage ActivitiesRevenue from (1) underwriting, 
(2) advisory, and (3) 
securitization transactions incorporating integration of 
environmental, social, and 
governance (ESG) factors, by industryQuantitative FN-IB-
410a.1Citi does not report this information.
(1) Number and (2) total value 
of investments and loans incorporating integration of  
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors, by industryQuantitative FN-IB-410a.2
• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Risk Management  > ESRM Consultation Data
Citi also incorporates environmental and social criteria for transactions that contribute to our $1 trillion sustainable finance commitment . 
Description of approach to 
incorporation of environmental, 
social, and governance (ESG) factors in investment banking 
and brokerage activitiesDiscussion and AnalysisFN-IB-410a.3
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework
Business 
EthicsTotal amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, 
anti-trust, anti-competitive 
behavior, market manipulation, malpractice, or other related 
financial industry laws or 
regulationsQuantitative FN-IB-
510a.1See response to FN-CB-510a.1.
Description of whistleblower 
policies and proceduresDiscussion and AnalysisFN-IB-510a.2See response to FN-CB-510a.2.
Professional 
Integrity(1) Number and (2) percentage 
of covered employees with a record of investment-related 
investigations, consumer-
initiated complaints, private civil litigations, or other 
regulatory proceedingsQuantitative FN-IB-
510b.1Citi does not report this information.
Number of mediation and arbitration cases associated with professional integrity, 
including duty of care, by partyQuantitative FN-IB-
510b.2Citi does not report this information.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with 
professional integrity, including duty of careQuantitative FN-IB-510b.3
Citi discloses all material legal and regulatory proceedings in its 10-K, including when a suit was filed, the court, the parties involved, 
the allegations and the relief sought. Citi also discloses information 
regarding material inquiries or investigations by regulators associated with professional integrity, including duty of care.
• 2021 10-K pages 296-303
Description of approach to ensuring professional integrity, 
including duty of careDiscussion 
and AnalysisFN-IB-510b.4
• Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly
• Citi Code of ConductContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
153
Systemic Risk 
ManagementGlobal Systemically Important 
Bank (G-SIB) score, by categoryQuantitative FN-IB-550a.1See response to FN-CB-550a.1.
Description of approach to 
incorporation of results of mandatory and voluntary stress 
tests into capital adequacy 
planning, long-term corporate strategy, and other business 
activitiesDiscussion 
and AnalysisFN-IB-550a.2See response to FN-CB-550a.2.
Employee Incentives & Risk TakingPercentage of total remuneration that is variable for 
Material Risk Takers (MRTs)Quantitative FN-IB-
550b.1
Citi discloses the percentage of variable remuneration for the Executive Management Team in its Proxy Statement.
• 2022 Proxy Statement page 81
Percentage of variable remuneration of Material Risk 
Takers (MRTs) to which malus 
or clawback provisions were appliedQuantitative FN-IB-550b.2
Citi discloses the percentage of variable remuneration subject to clawback provisions for the Executive Management Team in its Proxy 
Statement.
• 2022 Proxy Statement pages 81 and 88
Discussion of policies around 
supervision, control, and validation of traders’ pricing of 
Level 3 assets and liabilitiesDiscussion 
and 
AnalysisFN-IB-550b.3
• 2021 10-K pages 124 and 263-264
Activity Metric (1) Number and (2) value of (a) underwriting, (b) advisory, and 
(c) securitization transactionsQuantitative FN-IB-
000.APer Dealogic, our transaction volumes for 2021 were:
Transaction Type Volume ($ M) Deals (#)
Underwriting 890,494.58 3,457
Advisory (completed) 820,459.53 317
Securitizations 153,112.44 401
• Dealogic press view standards were used to run the league tables.
• Values include Dealogic Rank Eligible transactions only.
• Citi volume for Mergers and Acquisitions is Equal Credit to Target and Acquirer Advisors. 
• Citi volume for underwriting is Full to Book Manager, Equal if Joint Books.
• Underwriting is inclusive of equity and equity-linked securities, debt capital markets issuances including securitization of asset and 
mortgage-backed securities and syndicated loans.
• Securitizations consist of asset and mortgage-backed securities. 
• Derivatives are not accounted for in the table above.
(1) Number and (2) value of proprietary investments and 
loans by sectorQuantitative FN-IB-
000.B Through Citi’s Impact Fund, we make equity investments in companies 
that are addressing societal challenges, including workforce 
development, sustainability, infrastructure, financial capability, and 
access to capital and economic opportunity.
• Citi Impact Fund
(1) Number and (2) value of market making transactions in 
(a) fixed income, (b) equity, (c) 
currency, (d) derivatives, and (e) commodity productsQuantitative FN-IB-000.CCiti does not report this information.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
154
Reporting and Self- 
Assessment Requirements High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response References
Principle 1: Alignment
We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed in the SDGs, the Paris Agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks.
1.1 Describe (high-level) your bank’s 
business model, including the main 
customer segments served, types of 
products and services provided, the 
main sectors and types of activities, 
and where relevant the technologies 
financed across the main geographies 
in which your bank has operations or provides products and services.Citi is a global diversified financial services company whose businesses provide consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad, yet 
focused, range of financial products and services, including consumer banking 
and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, trade 
and securities services and wealth management. Citi has approximately 200 
million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and 
jurisdictions.
During 2021, Citigroup was managed pursuant to two operating segments 
— Institutional Clients Group (ICG) and Global Consumer Banking (GCB). As 
part of its strategic refresh, Citi made management reporting changes to 
align with its vision and strategy, including to assist Citi in decisions about 
resources and capital allocation and to assess business performance. In the 
first quarter of 2022, Citi revised its financial reporting structure to align with 
these management reporting changes to enable investors and others to better understand the performance of Citi’s businesses. These changes are discussed 
on page 6 of our 2021 10-K.2021 Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) Report:
• Citi at a Glance
External References:
• About Citi
• Consumer Businesses
• Institutional Businesses
• 2021 10-K, pp. 4-6The Principles for Responsible Banking Index
The Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) are a framework for ensuring that signatory banks’ strategy and practice align with Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Climate Agreement (Paris Agreement). The Principles encourage a sustainable banking system and help the industry demonstrate how it makes a positive contribution to society. They embed sustainability at the strategic, portfolio and transactional levels and across all business areas.
Following the guidance provided by UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), we mapped the Principles to our core activities and 
are reporting on our progress. The results are outlined in the index below.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
155
Reporting and Self- 
Assessment Requirements High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response References
1.2 Describe how your bank has aligned 
and/or is planning to align its strategy 
to be consistent with and contribute 
to society’s goals, as expressed in the 
SDGs, the Paris Agreement, and relevant 
national and regional frameworks.Many of our activities support the SDGs, including sustainable finance such as renewable energy project finance and public sector finance; corporate 
philanthropy; Citi Impact Fund investments; inclusive finance activity and 
employee diversity programs. Citi is also part of the Global Investors for 
Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance, which is committed to accelerating 
the financing of the SDGs.
Examples of our initiatives that align with and contribute to society’s goals are 
summarized below:
$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance Commitment
In 2021 we announced our $1 trillion sustainable finance by 2030 commitment. 
This extends our prior five-year, $250 Billion Environmental Finance Goal to 
$500 Billion by 2030, and includes a $500 Billion Social Finance Goal towards 
financing in areas such as affordable basic infrastructure, affordable housing, diversity and equity and economic inclusion, among others. 
Sustainable Progress Strategy
Climate change is integrated into the three pillars of our Sustainable Progress 
Strategy: 
• Low-Carbon Transition: our work to finance and facilitate low-carbon solutions and support our clients in their decarbonization and transition 
strategies
• Climate Risk: our efforts to measure, manage and reduce the climate risk and 
impacts of our client portfolio
• Sustainable Operations: our efforts to reduce the environmental footprint of our facilities and further integrate sustainable practices across our global 
operations
Fossil Fuel Sector Approaches 
Under our Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy, we have 
updated our Sector Approaches for fossil fuel industries, such as thermal coal 
mining, coal-fired power and Arctic oil and gas. We have included a commitment to eliminate our exposure to thermal coal mining companies by 2030, as well as 
requirements for clients with coal-fired power generation to engage with Citi on 
low-carbon transition strategies. 
Net Zero Commitment
In 2021, Citi announced its commitment to net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions by 2050, including net zero GHG emissions for its operations by 2030. In early 2022, we released our initial net zero plan, baseline emissions 
and 2030 emissions reduction targets for our Energy and Power loan portfolios. 
Action for Racial Equity
As part of our Action for Racial Equity , Citi and the Citi Foundation have 
committed $1 billion in strategic initiatives through 2023 to help close the racial wealth gap.
Citi Impact Fund 
We established the Citi Impact Fund, through which we are investing in “double 
bottom line” companies that are addressing societal challenges and have 
expanded this fund over recent years. 
Pathways to Progress 
Citi and the Citi Foundation’s Pathways to Progress initiative aims to build 
job skills and equip young people, particularly those from underserved 
communities, with the skills and networks for improved economic opportunity. 
In addition to the examples above, Citi has adopted or publicly endorsed a 
large number of external principles and standards that inform our approach to 
sustainable finance and risk management and allow us to provide innovative financial services that enable growth and economic progress while meeting our 
responsibilities to people and the planet. Please refer to our Environmental and 
Social Policy Framework for a full list.2021 ESG Report:
• Citi and the Sustainable Development Goals
• Sustainable Finance
• Sustainable Progress  
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Equitable and Resilient  Communities
• Citi Impact Fund
External References:
• Action for Racial Equity
• Environmental and Social Policies
• Environmental and Social Policy Framework
• Net Zero Commitment
• Sustainable Progress StrategyContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
156
Reporting and Self- 
Assessment Requirements High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response References
Principle 2: Impact and Target Setting
We will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and environment resulting 
from our activities, products and services. To this end, we will set and publish targets where we can have the most significant impacts.
2.1 Impact Analysis:
Show that your bank has identified the 
areas in which it has its most significant 
(potential) positive and negative impact 
through an impact analysis that fulfills 
the following elements: 
a) Scope: The bank’s core business 
areas, products/services across 
the main geographies that the bank 
operates in have been as described 
under 1.1. have been considered in the 
scope of the analysis.
b) Scale of Exposure: In identifying 
its areas of most significant impact 
the bank has considered where its 
core business/its major activities lie in 
terms of industries, technologies and 
geographies.
c) Context & Relevance:  Your bank 
has taken into account the most 
relevant challenges and priorities 
related to sustainable development 
in the countries/regions in which it 
operates.
d) Scale and intensity/salience of 
impact:  In identifying its areas of 
most significant impact, the bank has considered the scale and intensity/
salience of the (potential) social, 
economic and environmental impacts 
resulting from the bank’s activities and 
provision of products and services. 
Show that building on this analysis, the 
bank has 
• Identified and disclosed its areas of most significant (potential) positive 
and negative impact
• Identified strategic business oppor -
tunities in relation to the increase of positive impacts / reduction of 
negative impactsIntroduction
Building on our track record of over 20 years of work on climate change, 
sustainability and ESG issues, Citi’s approach to impact analysis is a process 
that has developed organically for our priority strategic initiatives. Prior 
to becoming a signatory to the Principles, we were engaged in this impact 
assessment process and we continue to learn from it and adapt it to new and emerging best practices. As such, our process involves concurrent 
workstreams that provide continuous feedback for the monitoring of potential 
impacts. 
This integrated process aligns with the directional intent of the Principles 
to “embed sustainability at the strategic, portfolio, and transactional levels 
across all business areas.” We recognize that any approach towards impact analysis is never complete, and the guidance developed by the PRB working 
groups can be used to help complement our existing work. Additionally, for 
financial institutions that are beginning their work to explore areas of greatest 
impacts, we regard the Principles as an efficient framework for embarking on 
this level of analysis. 
We plan to use the Principles and reporting from our peers to benchmark the 
impact areas we have identified and ensure that we are addressing society’s 
needs in the regions in which we operate and the markets that we serve. 
Citi’s Approach
Citi’s approach to impact consists of multiple concurrent processes, 
summarized below. Note that these processes, as described, do not necessarily 
occur in the order presented. 
1. Feedback Pathways: To identify potential impact areas, we engage a number 
of internal and external stakeholders, partners and tools, including:
a) Periodic stakeholder engagement:  
Citi reg ularly reviews its stakeholder partnerships across a range of functions 
including Global Public Affairs; Investor Relations; Human Resources and 
Corporate Governance as well as Sustainability; Government Affairs and other 
teams in Public Affairs. Examples of our stakeholder engagements from 2021 
are highlighted in the Stakeholder Engagement at Citi section of this report. 
Furthermore, we periodically have feedback sessions for stakeholders 
including clients, investors and NGOs facilitated by the nonprofit sustainability 
advocacy organization Ceres. These sessions focus on areas such as our 
Sustainable Progress Strategy and approach to addressing climate change 
including, most recently, our setting of net zero targets and measurement of 
baseline emissions. For more information, please see pages 26-27 of our 2021 TCFD Report. 
b) Partnerships with trade organizations: 
Becoming a signatory t o global industry initiatives and participating in 
working groups keeps us abreast of emerging issues and best practices 
for addressing them. Engagements with organizations such as the Equator 
Principles, Institute of International Finance (IIF), United Nations Environment 
Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and GISD highlight potential issues, 
increasing awareness of our own potential impacts as a global bank. Such involvement also allows for opportunities to support public policy and 
regulation that encourages sustainable development.
c) Third-party ratings:
Analyses cond ucted by third-party organizations allow Citi to benchmark 
our approaches to certain ESG issues against standardized frameworks and 
methodologies. Such ratings and their accompanying reports identify areas for 
improvement and provide useful data that can help drive performance. 2021 ESG Report:
• Our Material ESG Issues: Citi in a 
Global Context
• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
• Sustainable Finance
• Sustainable Progress  
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Equitable and Resilient  Communities
External References:
• 2021 TCFD Report
• Action for Racial Equity
• Banking in Color 
• Closing the Racial Inequality Gaps
• Environmental and Social Policies
• Environmental and Social Policy Framework  
• Net Zero Commitment
• Sustainable Progress Strategy
• The Devaluation of Assets in Black Neighborhoods  
• The Racial Wealth Gap
• 2021 10-KContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
157
 High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response (continued)
d) Public-Private Partnerships:
Working with research organizations, academic institutions and in the case of our racial equity work, initiatives like the U.S. Treasury OCC’s Project REACh 
(Roundtable for Economic Access and Change) allows Citi the opportunity to direct private sector resources towards public-sector initiatives while also providing 
first-hand insight into the issues facing the clients, countries and communities with which we work. 
2. Normalization of Feedback: Given the myriad streams of incoming feedback and the numerous potential impact areas identified by the pathways described above, 
we use the following tools to help identify which areas are the most salient and actionable:
a) Materiality Assessments: 
We periodically conduct materiality assessments to identify our most relevant (or “material”) reporting topics from an ESG perspective — which is a broader 
standard than that used in our financial disclosures. Such assessments provide a methodological way to gauge and quantify the relative salience of potential 
impact areas to our key stakeholders. This assessment also mirrors — and informs — our increased strategic efforts on these issues. It has also driven our increased 
reporting on these material topics.
b) Research:
Citi maintains strong relationships with academic institutions, think tanks and industry groups that periodically publish reports highlighting developing trends and 
areas of economic and social impact. Citi also considers research conducted by our thought leadership group, Citi Global Perspectives & Solutions (Citi GPS), which 
analyzes the global economy’s most demanding challenges. 
c) Consideration of core business areas, products/services and the geographies we work in:
Qualitative and quantitative factors such as market presence, sectoral exposure and revenue associated with certain businesses and regions may also contribute 
to our assessment of our potential impacts. 
Citi’s Initial Impact Areas
The following describes considerations taken as part of our ESG impact analysis approach, which identified our two areas of greatest impact: climate change 
globally and racial equity in the United States. 
Note: As mentioned in our response to disclosure 1.1 of this index, during 2021, Citi was managed pursuant to two operating segments, ICG and GCB, and and the 
reporting structure changed in Q1 2022, as described on page 6 of our 2021 10-K. The findings below are based on the GCB and ICG reporting structure during 
2021. However, we believe the conclusions will be applicable to the new structure in 2022.
Scope and Scale:
In our initial review of potential impact areas, we consider our core business activities under our two primary segments, GCB and ICG, the regions they serve and 
the revenues attributed to businesses within each.
Regions:  
• GCB: North America; Latin America; Asia 
• ICG: North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Latin America; Asia
Core Business Activities:
• GCB: Retail banking; Branded cards; Retail services*
• ICG: Investment banking (advisory and equity and debt underwriting), Markets (fixed income markets, equity markets, securities services and other),  
Treasury and trade solutions, Corporate lending and Private bank 
* This GCB business is in North America only
Findings (Based on 2021 10-K filing):
GCB: In 2021, revenues for retail banking activity in Latin America and Asia were nearly double the revenue of branded cards in these regions. In North America, 
the opposite was true, with branded cards exceeding retail banking revenues. However, absolute revenue from retail banking in North America was highest among 
the three regions. Likewise, aggregate revenue for all three GCB businesses in North America exceeded Latin America and Asia combined. 
ICG: Unlike GCB, which had a majority of its revenue concentrated in North America, revenues for aggregate ICG activity were more evenly distributed among the 
primary regions, reflecting this segment’s global work. Among the highest revenue-generating activities were markets and securities services (particularly fixed 
income activity) and treasury and trade solutions. 
Additionally, we consider activity outside of our core businesses. For example, through strategic grant-making efforts, the Citi Foundation promotes economic 
progress in low-income communities around the world, including programs that increase financial inclusion. The Citi Impact Fund is a $200 million venture capital 
fund with a mission of investing in double bottom line companies that are addressing societal changes. The fund prioritizes companies that are led or owned by 
women or racial/ethnic minorities and that are addressing societal challenges, such as reaching low- and moderate-income households with innovative financial and 
workforce services, delivering solutions for the climate transition economy and addressing needs for inclusive healthcare and housing.
Initial Areas of Focus:
GCB: Based on the screening above, we focused on North America, given the concentration of revenue generation there, and focused on global activity for ICG. 
While GCB revenue in North America during 2021 was driven by our branded cards activity, we feel that a focus on retail banking has more impact, considering the 
potential societal benefits from small business lending and greater access to financial services and credit through programs like the Citi® Access Account Package.
ICG: Although our fixed income markets and treasury and trade solutions activity generated the most revenue during 2021, they serve to support market-making 
activity and cash-management capacity for clients and thus have more indirect impact. We concluded that our corporate lending and underwriting activity is the most directly associated with impact, and that through these activities we can be more influential and actionable. This is supported by our industry group 
partnerships described in the Context and Relevance section below. Therefore, global corporate lending is the scope of our initial focus.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
158
High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response (continued)
We also consider activities of the Citi Foundation and Impact Fund, where they complement Citi’s ESG-related goals and efforts alongside our core business 
activities. In the future we will consider corporate underwriting.
Context and Relevance
From the feedback pathways described in the Citi’s Approach section above, we maintain awareness of the most relevant sustainable development challenges and 
priorities in the countries and regions in which we operate. Below, we discuss our focus on climate change mitigation globally and racial equity in the United States.
Global Context:
The climate crisis is one of the most critical challenges facing our global society and economy in the 21st century. The data is irrefutable and the world’s climate 
scientists agree: Urgent action must be taken to address the current and potential impacts of climate change, including chronic changes to temperature and 
precipitation, diminishing polar sea ice, rising sea levels and more intense and frequent extreme weather events. 2021 was the sixth warmest year on record. That year, we experienced devastating wildfires on the West Coast of the U.S. and in Australia, and one of the most active hurricane seasons in the Atlantic. Additionally, 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) 6th Assessment Report, released in 2021, further highlights the urgent need to address climate change. 
Reports also show that vulnerable and marginalized communities are likely to bear a disproportionate share of any physical climate impacts.
U.S. Context:
A wide range of data and studies have found that many major gaps in economic opportunity, education, income, housing and wealth run along racial lines, 
particularly between Black and white households. Some gaps remain wide 60 years after the civil rights movement and some, including in homeownership rates and college degree attainment, are even wider now. These gaps have not only had implications for Black Americans and other people of color but the broader economy 
as well. Over the last few years, the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on communities of color and growing demand for racial justice further highlighted the 
impacts of racial inequity.
Intensity and Salience 
Climate Change: 
We have employed a number of tools to assess the intensity and salience of climate change impacts: We published baseline emissions for our Energy and Power 
loan portfolios in accordance with the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) standard and established emissions targets, with intentions to analyze 
the emissions of other carbon-intensive sectors in the future. 
Several industry-wide initiatives also identify corporate lending as a key impact area with potential to mitigate climate change: 
• The PCAF standard was established to assess financed emissions with an initial focus on lending
• The UNEP FI Guidelines for Climate Target Setting for Banks (“UNEP FI Guidelines”) focus on lending and investment activities
• PCAF also formed a Capital Markets Working Group, with which Citi has been involved, to develop standards for measuring emissions associated with underwrit -
ing activity — an area of activity that Citi will also explore for its potential impacts. 
Racial Equity: 
For over 20 years, Citi and the Citi Foundation have invested in organizations and partnerships that support financial inclusion and expanding economic opportunities for low-
income families and communities of color, such as the Asset Building Policy Network. Through engagement with these and other stakeholders, including minority depository 
institutions (MDIs), we have enhanced our understanding of the structural inequities that fuel the racial wealth gap and their impact on communities. Numerous publications and 
research reports articulate the scale, intensity and salience of racial equity (see External References). 
Additionally, the Citi GPS report, Closing the Racial Inequality Gaps, articulates the economic impacts of the racial wealth gap. The analysis in the report shows that if four key 
racial gaps for Black people — wages, education, housing and investment — had been closed 20 years ago, $16 trillion could have been added to the U.S. economy. And if the gaps 
were closed as of 2020, $5 trillion could have been added to U.S. GDP over the next five years.
Next Steps
Our work towards addressing our areas of greatest impact is never complete, and we anticipate the following areas of activity as we move toward further implementation of the 
principles. 
Climate Change: 
As per our NZBA commitments, we will set targets for and establish baseline emissions for additional carbon-intensive sectors, such as Auto Manufacturing, Commercial 
Real Estate, Steel and Thermal Coal Mining, with additional sectors such as Agriculture, Aluminum, Cement, Iron and other segments of the Transportation sector to follow, as 
methodological capabilities evolve to accommodate them. Additionally, once a capital markets methodology is finalized and published by PCAF, Citi plans to integrate these emissions into annual disclosures and targets. 
Racial Equity:
As discussed in the Action for Racial Equity section of this report, we seek to lead and expand firmwide engagement with MDIs, diverse broker-dealers and diverse asset 
managers through our newly formed Diverse Financial Institutions Group. We are also conducting a third-party racial equity audit to assess our efforts to address the racial wealth gap in the United States through implementation of Action for Racial Equity . 
Biodiversity:We recognize that loss of biodiversity globally is an increasing emergency, and we are continuing to expand our understanding of the complex dynamics between climate and 
biodiversity. These two topics are interconnected, and there are increasing concerns that climate change, along with other human activity, has significantly stressed natural 
systems and contributed to ongoing extinction events. Although there is increasing focus on biodiversity, there has historically been limited information available to understand 
how companies rely on and impact natural capital as well as natural capital’s impact on climate. Citi is a member of the Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) 
Forum and participated in an informal working group prior to the TNFD’s launch to develop its workplan to create a complementary framework to TCFD focused on reporting 
evolving nature-related risks. 
For our impact analysis, we have identified impacts associated with our core businesses and their portfolios as described in the introduction to this
section. We may further refine this process and increase the scope of our impact analysis as we explore different methodologies in subsequent reporting.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
159
Reporting and Self- 
Assessment Requirements High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response References
2.2 Target Setting 
Show that the bank has set and 
published a minimum of two S pecific, 
Measurable (can be qualitative or 
quantitative), Achievable, R elevant and 
Time-bound ( SMART ) targets, which 
address at least two of the identified “areas of most significant impact”, 
resulting from the bank’s activities and 
provision of products and services. 
Show that these targets are linked to 
and drive alignment with and greater 
contribution to appropriate SDGs, the goals of the Paris Agreement, and 
other relevant international, national or 
regional frameworks. The bank should 
have identified a baseline (assessed 
against a particular year) and have set 
targets against this baseline.
Show that the bank has analysed and 
acknowledged significant (potential) 
negative impacts of the set targets on 
other dimensions of the SDG/climate 
change/society’s goals and that it has 
set out relevant actions to mitigate 
those as far as feasible to maximize the net positive impact of the set targets. As part of our initial impact analysis work, we have developed targets for each of the identified impact areas:
Climate Change
Net Zero Commitment:
In 2021, we announced our commitment to net zero GHG emissions by 2050, 
including net zero GHG emissions for our own operations by 2030. In early 
2022, we published our initial net zero plan, baseline emissions and interim 
2030 targets for our Energy and Power loan portfolios. For more information, 
see the Climate Risk and Net Zero section of this report. 
$1 Trillion Commitment to Sustainable Finance:
In 2021 we announced our $1 trillion sustainable finance by 2030 commitment, 
which includes a $500 Billion Environmental Finance Goal toward the financing 
and facilitation of a wide array of climate solutions, such as renewable energy, 
clean technology, water conservation and sustainable transportation. The 
$1 trillion commitment also includes $500 billion in social finance toward investments in affordable basic infrastructure, affordable housing, diversity 
and equity, economic inclusion, education, food security and healthcare.
Thermal Coal Mining Exposure:
Within our ESRM Policy, we have included a commitment to eliminate our 
exposure to thermal coal mining companies by 2030, and in early 2021, we also expanded our policy related to coal-fired power. For more information, see our 
Environmental and Social Policy Framework.
These goals will drive alignment with SDGs 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), 9 
(Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure) and 13 (Climate Action).
Racial Equity
Action for Racial Equity:
In 2020, Citi and the Citi Foundation committed $1 Billion in strategic initiatives through 2023 to help close the racial wealth gap. Our pledge focuses 
on four key goals and outcomes:
• Expand banking and access to credit in communities of color
• Invest in Black entrepreneurship
• Invest in affordable housing and promote the growth of Black 
homeownership
• Strengthen Citi’s policies and practices in order to become an anti-racist institution
These goals will drive alignment with SDGs 8 (Decent Work and Economic 
Growth) and 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities).2021 ESG Report:
• Sustainable Finance
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Action for Racial Equity
• Citi Impact Fund
External References:
• Action for Racial Equity
• Environmental and Social Policy 
Framework
• Net Zero Commitment
We have established a firm-wide target for net zero emissions, updated our prior environmental finance target to be a comprehensive commitment to 
sustainable finance, which now includes social criteria, maintain Sector Approaches related to our exposure to the coal industry, and established goals 
under a racial equity initiative. We believe these are in line with the requirements of the Principles.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
160
Reporting and Self- 
Assessment Requirements High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response References
2.3 Plans for Target Implementation 
and Monitoring
Show that your bank has defined 
actions and milestones to meet the set 
targets.
Show that your bank has put in place 
the means to measure and monitor 
progress against the set targets. 
Definitions of key performance 
indicators, any changes in these 
definitions, and any rebasing of baselines should be transparent. Measures and actions we plan to put in place:
Climate Change:
In early 2022, we released our 2021 TCFD Report, which highlights potential 
emissions-reduction approaches for our Energy and Power loan portfolios to 
reach net zero GHG emissions. 
In the initial net zero plan for these portfolios, we provide a phased timeline 
of actions and measures to achieve our interim 2030 targets including client 
transition assessment; advisory and finance; clean tech finance; public policy engagement, risk management; and portfolio management. These areas of 
activity are detailed further in the report. 
Racial Equity:
In November 2021, we released our Year One Progress report, which 
summarizes progress made against our Action for Racial Equity commitments 
to help close the racial wealth gap and expand economic mobility for 
communities of color in the United States. The report also includes overviews 
on our approach to working with MDIs, providing venture capital to Black founders, supporting more equitable rental housing, embedding equity in asset 
management and leveraging philanthropy from the Citi Foundation to support 
small businesses. In October 2021, we committed to conduct an audit of Action 
for Racial Equity , which intends to assess the design and implementation of 
our effort and will help inform how to adapt and grow our work to address the racial wealth gap. 
Key Performance Indicators:
Citi will report progress toward our targets annually using the key 
performance indicators listed below:
Net Zero Commitment:
• Emissions associated with key carbon-intensive sectors
• Emissions associated with our operations
$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance Commitment:
• Financial performance broken down by region, criteria and business
• Environmental and social impacts 
Thermal Coal Mining Credit Exposure:
•  Credit exposure to thermal coal companies 
Action for Racial Equity: 
• Growth in banking and access to credit in communities of color
• Amount of equity investments in Black-owned firms
• Amount of equity investments in MDIs
• Growth of consumer lending capabilities that increase access to mortgage 
products and services2021 ESG Report:
• Sustainable Finance
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Action for Racial Equity
• Citi Impact Fund
External References:
• 2021 TCFD Report
• Action for Racial Equity
• ARE Year One Progress Report
• Environmental and Social Policy Framework
• Net Zero Commitment
Citi has established strategies and initiatives to implement the identified targets. We have identified key performance indicators that we will report 
annually to monitor progress toward these targets. While the provided indicators are not an exhaustive list, we anticipate that these metrics may evolve 
as we move further toward implementation. Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
161
Reporting and Self- 
Assessment Requirements High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response References
2.4 Progress on Implementing 
Targets
For each target separately: 
Show that your bank has implemented 
the actions it had previously defined to meet the set target.
Or explain why actions could not be 
implemented / needed to be changed 
and how your bank is adapting its plan 
to meet its set target. 
Report on your bank’s progress over 
the last 12 months (up to 18 months in 
your first reporting after becoming a 
signatory) toward achieving each of 
the set targets and the impact your 
progress resulted in (where feasible 
and appropriate, banks should include quantitative disclosures).Net Zero Commitment:Following the announcement of our net zero commitment in March 2021, in early 2022, we released our initial net zero plan for our Energy and Power loan 
portfolios, including baseline emissions and 2030 emissions reduction targets. 
We will continue our work to develop emissions baselines and targets for 
additional carbon-intensive sectors in our portfolio.
$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance Goal:
Building on our $250 Billion Environmental Finance Goal, we announced a commitment to a $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030. The commitment 
expands the prior $250 Billion Environmental Goal to $500 Billion and 
includes $500 Billion toward Social Finance. Detailed progress toward the first 
two years of tracking toward this commitment is provided in the Sustainable 
Finance section of this report. As of YE2021, we have financed and facilitated 
$163.1 billion toward our Environmental Finance Goal and $59.0 billion toward 
our Social Finance Goal for a total of $222.1 billion toward the $1 trillion commitment. 
Thermal Coal Mining Exposure:
Following the publication of the 2020 baseline, we saw a reduction of 30% in 
2021, as detailed in this report. 
Action for Racial Equity: 
By November 2021, one year into our three-year pledge, Citi and the Citi 
Foundation had already exceeded our $1 billion commitment to invest in 
initiatives expanding economic opportunity for communities of color. For more 
details, please refer to the Equitable and Resilient Communities section in this 
report. 2021 ESG Report:
• Sustainable Finance
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Action for Racial Equity 
External References:
• 2021 TCFD Report
• Action for Racial Equity
• Environmental and Social Policy Framework
• Net Zero Commitment
We have set the targets described above and are in the early stages of implementing the measures we have put in place. In some cases, such as for our 
Action for Racial Equity , Citi and the Citi Foundation have exceeded the initiative’s financial targets. We will report on progress made toward achieving 
our targets in our subsequent reporting.
Principle 3: Clients and Customers
We will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities that create shared prosperity for current and future generations.
3.1 Provide an overview of the policies 
and practices your bank has in place 
and/or is planning to put in place to 
promote responsible relationships 
with its customers. This should 
include high-level information on any 
programmes and actions implemented 
(and/or planned), their scale and, where possible, the results thereof. Citi has a number of policies and systems in place to ensure we treat customers responsibly and fairly: 
• Citi Code of Conduct 
• Citi’s Treating Customers Fairly Principles
• Global Consumer Fairness Policy 
• Global Financial Access Policy
More details can be found in the Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly section of this report.2021 ESG Report:
• Serving our Customers and Clients Responsibly
External References:
• Citi Code of ConductContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
162
Reporting and Self- 
Assessment Requirements High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response References
3.2 Describe how your bank has worked 
with and/or is planning to work with its 
clients and customers to encourage 
sustainable practices and enable 
sustainable economic activities. This 
should include information on actions 
planned/implemented, products 
and services developed, and, where possible, the impacts achieved.Through our $1 trillion commitment to sustainable finance, we will finance and facilitate a wide array of climate solutions, such as renewable energy, 
clean technology, water conservation and sustainable transportation as 
well as activities in social finance, which include investments in education, 
affordable housing and basic infrastructure, healthcare, economic inclusion 
and food security. Reaching the goal will require the development of innovative 
financing solutions, increasing engagement and helping clients across all 
sectors, no matter where they are in their own sustainability journeys, to enable more sustainable business models and practices. For more information, 
please see the Sustainable Finance section in this report. 
To facilitate these transitions, we have established dedicated teams embedded 
across our businesses to offer strategic sustainability and ESG services 
and solutions. Our business groups, including Banking, Capital Markets and 
Advisory; Global Markets; Global Wealth Management; and Treasury and Trade Solutions, all have dedicated bankers or teams focused on advising clients and 
offering customized ESG-themed products and services.
Under our net zero commitment, we will engage clients in carbon-intensive 
sectors that have low-carbon transition opportunities. We have formed 
specialized business units to work closely with clients to support their 
business plans as they transition to net zero including the Natural Resources & Clean Energy Transition team; the Sustainability & Corporate Transitions team; 
and the Sustainable Debt Capital Markets team. For more information, please 
see our 2021 TCFD Report. 
Our ESRM Policy helps us finance projects and activities responsibly by 
engaging our clients on environmental and social risks and good practices. 
Ongoing engagement with our clients is an important part of our ESRM process. When we first established our ESRM Policy, our engagements were 
tied to specific, project-related financial transactions and their associated 
environmental and social risks and mitigation efforts. However, as we have 
developed Sector Approaches and Areas of High Caution over the years, we 
have added corporate-level reviews and client engagements in a number of 
sectors. These sector-specific risk review processes encourage dialogue 
between Citi and our clients about the material environmental and social risks associated with their operations, enabling us to develop a better 
understanding of prevailing industry practices and our clients’ performance 
and guide our clients toward better sustainability practices.2021 ESG Report:
• Sustainable Finance
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Risk Management  > Environmental  
and Social Risk Management 
External References:
• 2021 TCFD Report
• Environmental and Social Policy Framework
• Net Zero Commitment
Principle 4: Stakeholders
We will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals.
4.1 Describe which stakeholders 
(or groups/types of stakeholders) 
your bank has consulted, engaged, 
collaborated or partnered with for 
the purpose of implementing these 
Principles and improving your bank’s 
impacts. This should include a high-
level overview of how your bank has identified relevant stakeholders and 
what issues were addressed/results 
achieved.Citi believes that we are best able to drive business value when we serve the interests of a wide array of stakeholders, including our shareholders. We 
made a deliberate effort to continue stakeholder engagement in a pandemic 
environment. To fulfill this approach, we regularly review our stakeholder 
partnerships across a range of functions, including Global Public Affairs, 
Investor Relations, Human Resources and Corporate Governance, as well as 
Sustainability & ESG, Government Affairs and other teams in Public Affairs.
A summary of the groups we have engaged with, the topics addressed, and 
results achieved is provided in Stakeholder Engagement section of this report. 
We also highlight our climate-related engagement with clients and trade 
associations in our 2021 TCFD Report.2021 ESG Report:
• Stakeholder Engagement
• Climate Risk and Net Zero >  
Participation in Net Zero  
Frameworks
• Climate Risk and Net Zero >  
Engagement
• Risk Management  > Client  
Engagement  
External References:
• 2021 TCFD ReportContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
163
Reporting and Self- 
Assessment Requirements High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response References
Principle 5: Governance & Culture
We will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking.
5.1 Describe the relevant governance 
structures, policies and procedures 
your bank has in place/is planning 
to put in place to manage significant 
positive and negative (potential) 
impacts and support effective 
implementation of the Principles. Citi’s Board of Directors plays an important role in providing oversight of our 
efforts to ensure responsible business practices. For example, the Nomination, 
Governance and Public Affairs Committee (NGPAC) of the Board oversees Citi’s 
global ESG activities and performance, and the Risk Management Committee 
(RMC) provides oversight of Citi’s Risk Management function, reviews Citi’s 
risk appetite framework, including reputational risk appetite, and reviews key 
risk policies, including those focused on environmental and social risk. The 
Ethics, Conduct and Culture Committee of the Board oversees management’s efforts to foster a culture of ethics within the company and receives regular 
reports from senior management on the progress of those efforts.
In 2021, we formed a new Global ESG Council consisting of senior members 
of management in order to provide enhanced oversight of our ESG activities 
and goals. Additionally, to support the development and launch of our net 
zero plan, we formed a Net Zero Task Force in 2021. The Task Force, led by our CSO, includes leaders from diverse business units and many other functions 
throughout Citi. 
Citi also has a Global Sustainability Steering Committee, a senior-level 
committee formed to advise on our sustainability and climate change strategy.
For more details on governance for ESG and sustainability issues, please refer 
to the ESG Governance section of this report. For more details on Citi’s climate 
change governance, please see our 2021 TCFD Report.2021 ESG Report: 
• ESG Governance at Citi 
External References:
• 2021 TCFD Report
• Ethics, Conduct and Culture 
Committee Charter
• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter
• Risk Management Committee CharterContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
164
Reporting and Self- 
Assessment Requirements High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response References
5.2 Describe the initiatives and 
measures your bank has implemented 
or is planning to implement to foster a 
culture of responsible banking among 
its employees. This should include a 
high-level overview of capacity building, 
inclusion in remuneration structures 
and performance management and leadership communication, amongst 
others. Citi has implemented a number of programs and initiatives that instill a culture 
of responsible banking among its employees, listed below:
Code of Conduct:
Citi’s Code of Conduct outlines the standards of ethics and professional 
behavior expected of employees and representatives of Citi when dealing with 
clients, business colleagues, shareholders, communities and each other. It 
also provides an overview of key legal and regulatory requirements and select global policies. Citi’s Code of Conduct applies to all directors, officers and 
employees of Citi worldwide. Upon joining Citi, employees must acknowledge 
that they have read and will comply with our Code. 
Programs and Training: 
Citi has policies, procedures and internal controls to comply with anti-bribery 
laws, and we conduct an annual bribery risk assessment of all global business lines. We provide our staff with anti-bribery training annually and supplement 
it with targeted training and communications as needed. 
Citi’s Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Program protects our clients, our 
franchise and the global financial system from the risks of money laundering 
and terrorist financing. The program includes more than 5,600 employees 
globally, including 225 designated AML Country Officers covering every Citi business, function and geographic area. 
Global Financial Crimes Investigations and Intelligence (GFCII) tackles 
financial crime and provides a globally consistent approach to the prevention 
and detection of risk. GFCII leverages partnerships with law enforcement, 
nonprofits and internal stakeholders to obtain actionable intelligence, allowing 
for proactive identification of illicit activity and effective mitigation of risk. 
Our Sanctions Program includes policies and procedures, risk category 
statement and tolerance thresholds, enterprise-wide screening, annual risk 
assessments and audits of sanctions control processes, employee training and 
a diverse team of Compliance professionals stationed around the world.
For more information, please see Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks 
section of this report.
ESRM Training: 
Key risk and banking personnel are provided with annual training on our ESRM 
Policy to help them identify triggers for engagement with our specialist ESRM 
team. For more information, please see the ESRM Management section of this 
report. 
Serving Our Customers and Clients Responsibly: 
We have policies and systems in place to help ensure that we treat customers 
responsibly and fairly including our Code of Conduct, responsible marketing 
practices, our Treating Customers Fairly Principles, our Global Financial 
Access Policy and our Global Consumer Fairness Policy. 
Remuneration: 
The Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board holds senior 
executives responsible, and in turn senior executives hold their team 
members responsible, for managing our sustainability and other ESG-
related efforts through incentive compensation decisions. Citi’s incentive 
compensation program is discretionary, not formulaic. For details on ESG-
linked remuneration for key executives and managers, please refer to the Remuneration section of this report. 2021 ESG Report:
• ESG Governance at Citi >  Remuneration
• Our Transformation > Ethics and Culture at Citi
• Risk Management  > Managing   
Corruption and Tax-Related Risks
• Risk Management  > ESRM Training
• Serving Our Customers and  
Clients Responsibly
 External References:
• Citi Code of ConductContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
165
Reporting and Self- 
Assessment Requirements High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response References
5.3 Governance Structure for 
Implementation of the Principles
Show that your bank has a 
governance structure in place for the 
implementation of the PRB, including: 
a) target-setting and actions to achieve 
targets set 
b) remedial action in the event of 
targets or milestones not being 
achieved or unexpected negative 
impacts being detected.Our Sustainability & ESG team, in collaboration with partners across the 
bank, is responsible for developing sustainability and climate-related targets, 
monitoring progress toward their achievement to ensure we are on track 
and identifying and addressing any unexpected negative impacts. Our Chief 
Sustainability Officer, Head of Community Investing and Development and 
other senior executives have oversight over target-setting, measures put in 
place to achieve the targets and determining remedial action where targets 
are not on track, or where measures need to be put in place to address unforeseen negative impacts.
We track our progress toward achieving our targets via reports to the NGPAC 
and/or the full Board of Directors. The Chief Sustainability Officer and Head 
of Community Investing and Development periodically report to the Board on 
progress made with achieving our targets and any remedial action taken to 
ensure achievement of targets and/or how negative impacts were addressed. Reports are also provided to the Global ESG council on a periodic basis 
for progress towards our Action for Racial Equity commitments, $1 trillion 
sustainable finance commitment and net zero targets. 2021 ESG Report:
• ESG Governance at Citi
• Our Transformation > Ethics and Culture at Citi
We have progressed substantially in fulfilling this requirement. The firm has a governance structure with oversight of ESG issues and will ensure that 
the Principles are implemented, managing significant impacts and setting and monitoring targets. The Sustainability & ESG team leads day-to-day 
implementation of the Principles in concert with other teams throughout the organization.
Principle 6: Transparency & Accountability
We will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be transparent about and accountable for our positive 
and negative impacts and our contribution to society’s goals.
6.1 Progress on Implementing the 
Principles for Responsible Banking 
Show that your bank has progressed 
on implementing the six Principles over 
the last 12 months (up to 18 months in 
your first reporting after becoming a 
signatory) in addition to the setting and implementation of targets in minimum 
two areas (see 2.1-2.4). 
Show that your bank has considered 
existing and emerging international/
regional good practices relevant for the 
implementation of the six Principles for Responsible Banking. Based on this, it 
has defined priorities and ambitions to 
align with good practice.
Show that your bank has implemented/
is working on implementing changes 
in existing practices to reflect and be in line with existing and emerging 
international/regional good practices 
and has made progress on its 
implementation of these Principles. In 2021, Citi made considerable progress toward implementing the Principles 
and our targets, as described below. 
Net Zero Commitment:
In January 2022, we released our initial net zero plan, including baseline 
emissions and 2030 emissions reduction targets for our Energy and Power 
loan portfolios. Additionally, in developing our initial net zero plan, we have 
participated in key net zero frameworks, including our continued participation in PCAF as well as the NZBA and the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero 
(GFANZ) of which we are founding members. For more information on these 
organizations and how they serve as converging net zero guideposts across 
the financial industry, please see our 2021 TCFD Report.
Citi remains committed to working closely with clients to support their 
business plans as they transition to net zero. In March 2021, we created the Natural Resources & Clean Energy Transition team in order to drive client 
engagement efforts in the Energy, Power and Chemicals sectors. This team 
includes corporate and investment bankers with deep knowledge of these 
sectors and unites them under a single umbrella to more effectively evaluate 
and pursue opportunities to assist our clients with the net zero transition.
$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance Commitment:
We recently established a $1 trillion by 2030 sustainable finance commitment, 
which expands our Environmental Finance Goal to $500 billion, with a focus 
on circular economy, clean technology, energy efficiency, green buildings, 
renewable energy, sustainable agriculture and land use, sustainable 
transportation and water quality and conservation. This commitment 
also includes $500 billion in social finance activity in affordable basic 
infrastructure, affordable housing, diversity and equity, economic inclusion, education, food security and healthcare. The expanded emphasis on social 
finance allows Citi to address a more holistic set of societal needs, in 
addition to protecting the environment and fighting global climate change, all 
supporting the UN SDGs. Multiple businesses and banking teams across Citi 
contribute environmental and social activities that count toward the $1 trillion 
sustainable finance commitment. Progress toward the $1 trillion commitment 
can be found in the Sustainable Finance section of this report.2021 ESG Report:
• Citi and the Sustainable Development Goals
• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Our Commitment to Social Finance
• Risk Management  > Environmental  
and Social Risk Management 
External References:
• 2021 TCFD Report
• Action for Racial EquityContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
166
 High-Level Summary of Bank’s Response (continued)
Climate Risk: 
In early 2022, we released our 2021 TCFD Report, detailing our continued work to incorporate climate risk and opportunity identification and management into 
our overall business strategy and efforts. Additionally, during 2021, we expanded our climate change governance through the formation of a Global ESG Council, 
consisting of senior members of management. We also grew our dedicated Climate Risk team to accommodate additional areas of expertise. For more information, 
please see our 2021 TCFD Report.
Action for Racial Equity: 
By November 2021 — one year into our three-year pledge — Citi and the Citi Foundation had already invested $1 billion into initiatives expanding economic opportunity for communities of color, putting us on track to exceed our original $1.1 billion commitment set in 2020. In 2021, we created a Diverse Financial 
Institutions Group, a dedicated team within Citi that is serving as a hub to lead and expand firmwide engagement with MDIs, diverse broker-dealers and diverse 
asset managers. Additionally, we have committed to conducting a Racial Equity Audit to evaluate our Action for Racial Equity work by the end of 2022.  For more 
information, see the Action for Racial Equity section in this report. 
Engagement on SDGs: 
Citi remains a member of the GISD Alliance, which includes 30 of the world’s largest investors committed to accelerating the financing of the SDGs. 
Biodiversity: 
Following our participation in the informal working group for the TNFD, we have become a member of the TNFD Forum. Through our ongoing collaboration with 
TNFD, we are able to contribute to the development of nature-related reporting norms and standards and continue to refine our understanding of the complex 
dynamics between climate and biodiversity and our connection to those impacts through our financial relationships with our clients.
Citi has made considerable progress towards implementing the principles including, identifying areas of impact, setting targets related to these impact 
areas and setting up internal resources to support the implementation of these targets and the Principles throughout the firm. Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
167
Task Force on Climate-related Financial  
Disclosures Index
The following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the TCFD requirements, either in this report or other publicly avail -
able documents. In addition, see our 2021 TCFD Report , which includes detailed information in response to TCFD requirements. 
Disclosure Report Section or Other Documentation
Governance a) Describe the Board’s oversight 
of climate-related risks and 
opportunities.• 2021 TCFD Report
• Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter 
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities.• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• 2021 TCFD Report
Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the 
organization has identified over the 
short, medium and long term.• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• 2021 TCFD Report
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework 
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, 
strategy and financial planning.• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Sustainable Operations
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework 
c) Describe the resilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Sustainable Operations  > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations
• 2021 TCFD Report
Risk 
Managementa) Describe the organization’s 
processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks.• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework
b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks.• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Sustainable Operations  > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and 
managing climate-related risks are 
integrated into the organization’s overall risk management.• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Sustainable Operations  > Managing Climate Risk in Our Operations
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework
• 2021 10-K pages 118–119Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
168
Disclosure Report Section or Other Documentation
Metrics and 
Targetsa) Disclose the metrics used by the 
organization to assess climate-
related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition
• Sustainable Operations  > Net Zero Commitment
• Sustainable Operations  > Operational Footprint Goals
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• 2021 TCFD Report
• Citi’s Environmental and Social Policy Framework
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, and the related 
risks.• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Performance for Operations
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Impact Report
• 2021 TCFD Report
c) Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets.• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition
• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Our Commitment to Reduce Financing for Coal
• Climate Risk and Net Zero > Portfolio Analysis and Measurement
• Sustainable Operations  > Net Zero Commitment
• Sustainable Operations  > Operational Footprint Goals
• Sustainable Operations  > Environmental Performance for OperationsContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
169
United Nations Global Compact Index
This report serves as our 2021 communication on progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Citi joined the UNGC in 2010, and we 
continue to embed the Compact’s 10 principles across our business and report on activities related to human rights, labor issues, the environment 
and anti-corruption.
“Citi’s ongoing support and participation in the United Nations Global Compact reinforce our ESG agenda and work to support our clients, colleagues and communities. From enabling the transition to a net zero economy, to supporting 
the equitable growth of underserved communities around the world, we’re committed to continue playing our part to build a better world.”
JANE FRASER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
UNGC Principle Report section or other documentation
Human Rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support and 
respect the protection of internationally 
proclaimed human rights; 
and• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
• Citi Code of Conduct 
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
Principle 2: make sure that they are not 
complicit in human rights abuses.• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Human Rights
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
Labor
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the 
freedom of association and the effective 
recognition of the right to collective bargaining;• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of 
forced and compulsory labor;• Human Rights > Addressing Forced Labor in Malaysia
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles 
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
• Citi Modern Slavery Disclosures
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and • Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
• Citi Modern Slavery Disclosures
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Action for Racial Equity > Action for Racial Equity: An Update on Our Progress
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers
• Citi Code of Conduct 
• Citi Requirements for Suppliers 
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles 
• Citi Statement on Human Rights 
• Citi U.S. Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Statement
Environment
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk ManagementContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
170
UNGC Principle Report section or other documentation
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote 
greater environmental responsibility; 
and• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
• Sustainable Operations
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supply Chain Sustainability Focus Areas
Principle 9: encourage the development 
and diffusion of environmentally friendly 
technologies.• Our $1 Trillion Commitment
• Financing the Low-Carbon Transition
• Climate Risk and Net Zero
Anti-corruption
Principle 10: Businesses should work against 
corruption in all its forms, including extortion 
and bribery.• Risk Management  > Managing Corruption and Tax-Related Risks
• Anti-Bribery Program
• Anti-Money Laundering Program
• Citi Code of Conduct
• Citi Requirements for Suppliers 
• Citi Statement of Supplier PrinciplesContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
171
United Nations Guiding Principles Reporting  
Framework Index
We have included information and disclosures in this report aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles reporting framework. This reflects 
our support of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and our commitment to transparency and accountability regarding our hu -
man rights-related activities and policies. The following table indicates where readers can find information that addresses the framework require -
ments, either in this report or other publicly available documents.
Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation
Part A: Governance of Respect for Human Rights
Policy 
commitmentA1 What does the company say publicly about its commitment to respect human rights?
A1.1 How has the public commitment been developed? • Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
A1.2 Whose human rights does the 
public commitment address?• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
A1.3 How is the public commitment disseminated? • Our Transformation  > Code of Conduct
The following documents, which state Citi’s commitment to respect human rights and 
our expectations about the commitment of others, are posted publicly: 
• Citi Code of Conduct  
• Citi Requirements for Suppliers   
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles  
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
Embedding respect for human 
rightsA2 How does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to the implementation of its human rights commitment?
A2.1 How is day-to-day responsibility for human rights performance 
organized within the company, and why?• ESG Governance at Citi
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
• Risk Management  > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information
• Risk Management  > Policy Implementation
• Human Rights > Due Diligence in Client Transactions
• Responsible Sourcing
A2.2 What kinds of human rights issues are discussed by senior management 
and by the Board, and why?• Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks
A2.3 How are employees and contract 
workers made aware of the ways in which respect for human rights 
should inform their decisions and 
actions?• Our Transformation  > Code of Conduct
• Risk Management  > ESRM Training
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Learning and Engagement
• Citi Code of Conduct  
A2.4 How does the company make clear 
in its business relationships the 
importance it places on respect for human rights?• Risk Management  > Policy Implementation
• Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Through Our Suppliers
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
• Citi Requirements for Suppliers   
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles 
A2.5 What lessons has the company learned during the reporting period 
about achieving respect for human 
rights, and what has changed as a result?• Action for Racial Equity > Action for Racial Equity: An Update on Our Progress
• Using Our Corporate Voice to Drive Change
• Human RightsContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
172
Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation
Part B: Defining the Focus of Reporting
Statement of 
salient issuesB1 State the salient human rights 
issues associated with the 
company’s activities and business relationships during the reporting 
period.• Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Risks
• Human Rights > Salient Human Rights Risks: Stakeholder Impacts
• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
• Citi Statement on Human Rights
Determination of salient issuesB2 Describe how the salient human 
rights issues were determined, including any input from 
stakeholders.• Human Rights > Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights
Choice of focal 
geographiesB3 If reporting on the salient human 
rights issues focuses on particular 
geographies, explain how that choice was made.This report provides a breakdown of our human rights due diligence for several salient risks at the project level and a separate breakdown of our due diligence of these and 
other environmental and social risks at the regional and sector levels for purposes of 
fulfilling the transparency requirements of the Equator Principles .
• Risk Management  > 2021 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles
• Risk Management  > ESRM Consultation Data
• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
Additional severe impactsB4 Identify any severe impacts on 
human rights that occurred or 
were still being addressed during the reporting period, but which fall 
outside of the salient human rights 
issues, and explain how they have been addressed.
Part C: Management of Salient Human Rights Issues
Specific policies C1 Does the company have any specific policies that address its salient human rights issues and, if so, what are they?
C1.1 How does the company make clear the relevance and significance of such policies to those who need to 
implement them?• Risk Management  > ESRM Training
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Employee Training
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
• Citi Code of Conduct  
• Citi Requirements for Suppliers 
• Citi Statement of Supplier Principles
Stakeholder 
engagementC2 What is the company’s approach to engagement with stakeholders in relation to each salient human rights issue?
C2.1 How does the company identify 
which stakeholders to engage with 
in relation to each salient issue, and when and how to do so?• Stakeholder Engagement at Citi
• Risk Management  > Monitoring the Changing Risk Landscape
• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
C2.2 During the reporting period, which 
stakeholders has the company 
engaged with regarding each salient issue, and why?• Human Rights > Engaging Stakeholders
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and Evaluation
C2.3 During the reporting period, how have the views of stakeholders influenced the company’s 
understanding of each salient issue 
and/or its approach to addressing it?• Human Rights > Engaging StakeholdersContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
173
Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation
Assessing impacts C3 How does the company identify any changes in the nature of each salient human rights issue over time?
C3.1 During the reporting period, 
were there any notable trends or 
patterns in impacts related to a salient issue and, if so, what were 
they?• Human Rights > Addressing Forced Labor in Malaysia
• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
C3.2 During the reporting period, did any severe impacts occur that were 
related to a salient issue and, if so, what were they?
Integrating findings and taking 
actionC4 How does the company integrate its findings about each salient human rights issue into its decision-making processes and actions?
C4.1 How are those parts of the 
company whose decisions and 
actions can affect the management 
of salient issues, involved in finding and implementing solutions?• ESG Governance at Citi
• Risk Management  > Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
C4.2 When tensions arise between the prevention or mitigation of impacts 
related to a salient issue and other 
business objectives, how are these tensions addressed?• Risk Management  > Policy Implementation
• Human Rights > Respecting Human Rights in Our Financing Decisions
C4.3 During the reporting period, what 
action has the company taken 
to prevent or mitigate potential impacts related to each salient 
issue?• Action for Racial Equity > Action for Racial Equity: An Update on Our Progress
• Affordable Housing
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
• Risk Management  > Safeguarding Data and Protecting Customer Information
• Human Rights > Addressing Forced Labor in Malaysia
• Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees
• Human Rights > Protection of Indigenous Rights in Latin America
• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
Tracking 
performanceC5 How does the company know if its efforts to address each salient human rights issue are effective in practice?
C5.1 What specific examples from 
the reporting period illustrate 
whether each salient issue is being managed effectively?In 2021, we identified risks of impacts to racial/ethnic minorities in global supply chains. We took steps to mitigate the risks of our involvement in such impacts by 
limiting the scope of our financing to clients in some cases and ceasing business 
relationships in others. In particular, we enhanced our governance of human rights risks in the Asia Pacific region with a special Human Rights Task Force and also 
initiated a portfolio review of the Malaysia franchise, to evaluate forced labor 
concerns in clients’ operations across different industries.
In addition, see the case studies below.  
• Our $1 Trillion Commitment > Sustainable Finance in Action
• Human Rights > Addressing Forced Labor in Malaysia
• Human Rights > Protection of Indigenous Rights in Latin America
• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
• Responsible Sourcing  > Supplier Engagement and EvaluationContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
174
Section of the Framework Report Section or Other Documentation
Remediation C6 How does the company enable effective remedy if people are harmed by its actions or decisions in relation to a salient 
human rights issue?
C6.1 Through what means can the 
company receive complaints or concerns related to each salient 
issue?• Our Transformation  > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns
• Human Rights > Reporting Mechanisms for Stakeholders
• Citi Code of Conduct  
C6.2 How does the company know if 
people feel able and empowered to raise complaints or concerns?• Risk Management  > Assessing Our Culture of Ethics
C6.3 How does the company process complaints and assess the effectiveness of outcomes?• Our Transformation  > Assessing Our Culture of Ethics
• Our Transformation  > Escalating Business and Ethical Concerns
• Human Rights > Providing Access to Remedy
• Human Rights > Reporting Mechanisms for Stakeholders
• Citi Code of Conduct
C6.4 During the reporting period, what were the trends and patterns in 
complaints or concerns and their 
outcomes regarding each salient issue, and what lessons has the 
company learned?• Action for Racial Equity
• Human Rights > Identifying Human Rights Risks in Transactions
C6.5 During the reporting period, did the 
company provide or enable remedy for any actual impacts related to 
a salient issue and, if so, what are 
typical or significant examples?• Human Rights > Providing Access to RemedyContents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
175
Assurance
 
 
Greenhouse Gas Verification Opinion  Number  
UK.PRS.V OL.INV.0100. 2021 /2022/04/07  
 
The inventory of Greenhouse Gas emissions and environmental data in the period  
1st January 2021 – 31st December 2021  for 
Citigroup, Inc. 
 
388 Greenwich Street  
New York, NY, 10013  
 
has been verified in accordance with ISO 14064 -3:2019 and the principles of 
completeness, transparency, accuracy, consistency and relevance  
 
To represent a total amount of:  
 
44,683  tCO 2e of GHG emissions Scope 1  
463,311 tCO 2e of GHG emissions Scope 2 ( location  based)  
60,979 tCO 2e of GHG emissions Scope 2 ( market  based)  
507,994 tCO 2e of total  GHG emissions  Scopes 1 and 2, based on Scope 2 location -
based emissions  
10,586 tCO 2e of GHG emissions Scope 3  
 
1,110.83 GWh of electricity consumption  
26.35 GWh of district heating and cooling  
178.00 GWh of natural gas  
0.74 GWh of LPG 
0.02 GWh of fuel oil  
31.59 GWh of diesel  
5,824 metric tonnes of waste diverted from landfill  
25,595 metric tonnes of total waste  
3,366,620 cubic meters of potable water consumed  
253,010 cubic meters of non-potable water consumed  
10,554 tCO 2e from business travel by air  
32 tCO 2e from business travel by rail  
 
The inventory of Greenhouse Gas emissions has been verified as meeting the requirements 
of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol – A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard  
and the GHG Protocol – Scope 2 Guidance – Amendment to the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Standard . 
 
For the following activities  
Banking and Finance  
 
Lead Assessor: Clare Robertson   
Technical Reviewer: Paulomi Raythatha  
 
Authorised by:  
 
Pamela Chadwick  
SGS United Kingdom Ltd  
 
Verification Opinion  Date : 6th April 2022 
 
This Opinion  is not valid without the full verification scope, objectives, criteria and conclusion  available on 
pages 2 to 5 of this Opinion . 
Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
176
Assurance
 
 
 
Schedule Accompanying Greenhouse Gas Verification Opinion  
Number  UK.PRS.V OL.INV.0100. 2021 /2022/04/07  
 
Brief Description of Verification Process  
SGS has been contracted by Citigroup, Inc. for the verification of direct and indirect 
carbon dioxide (CO 2) equivalent e missions  and environmental data as provided by 
Citigroup, Inc. , 388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY, 10013 in their GHG 
Statement  in the form of a Management Assertion covering CO 2 equivalent  
emissions and environmental data . 
 
Statement of Independence and Competence  
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in ins pection, testing and 
verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including 
management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and 
ethical auditing; sustainability report assurance and greenhouse gases  verification. 
SGS affirms our independence from Citigroup, Inc. being free from bias and 
conflicts of interest with the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders.  
 
The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised Lead Verifiers in Greenhouse 
Gases and Environmental Data Reporting  
 
Roles and responsibilities  
The management of Citigroup, Inc. is respon sible for the organization’s GHG  and 
environmental data  inform ation system , the development and maintenance of 
records and reporting procedures in accordance with that system, including the 
calculation and determination and reporting of GHG  emissions and environmental 
data.  
 
It is SGS’ responsibility to express an i ndependent GHG verification opinion on the     
GHG e missions and environmental data as provided in the Citigroup, Inc. GHG 
Statement  for the period 1st January 20 21 – 31st December 2021. As independent 
auditors to Citigroup Inc. our work was conducted based on current best practice in independent verification and in accordance with SGS policies regarding impartiality 
and independence. SGS has no conflict of interest in relation to providing these 
services to Citigroup Inc.  
  
SGS conducted a third-party  verification following the requirements of ISO 14064 -3: 
2019 of the provided CO 2 equivalent and environmental data Statement  in the 
period December 2021 to April 2022 . 
  The assessment included a desk review with remote verification . The verification 
was based on the verification scope, objectives and criteria as agreed between 
Citigroup, In c. and SGS on 1/12/2021   
 
Level of Assurance  
The level of assurance agreed is limited .  
 
Scop e 
Citigroup, In c. has commissioned an independent verification by SGS of reported 
CO 2 equivalent  emissions and environmental data arising from their activities, to 
establish conformance with the requirements  of WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol  and its 
amendments for CO 2 equivalent emissions and the principles of completeness, 
transparency, accuracy, consistency and relevance for environmental data, within 
the scope of the verification as outlined below . Data and information supporting the 
CO 2 equivalent  and environmental data statement  were historical and estimated in 
nature and proven by evidence.  Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
177
Assurance
 
 
 
 
This engagement covers verification of emiss ions from anthropogenic sources of 
greenhouse gases and other environmental data included within the organi sation’s 
boundary and meets the requirements  of WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol and its 
amendments . 
 
   
• The organizational boundary was established following the operational 
control approach  
• Title or description  of activities: Banking and Finance  
• Location/boundary of the activities: Global  
• Physical infrastructure, activities, technologies and processes of the organization:  Data Centres, Of fices, Operation  Centres, Retail Services, 
and Retail non -serviced facilities . 
• GHG sources, sinks and/or reservoirs included:  
Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions and removals  – stationary combustion  in 
owned,  leased and sub -leased locations . Transportation  fleet, fugitive and 
refrigerant emissions are excluded from the inventory ;  
Category 2: Indirect GHG emissions from imported energy  – purchased 
electricity and district heating and cooling ; 
 
Scope 3: Other i ndirect GHG emissions  – Business T ravel (air and rail (rail 
travel is to trips which are booked through Citi’s primary Travel 
Management Company only)) .       
 
• Types of GHGs included: CO 2, N2O, CH 4  
• GHG Reduction Initiatives : None. 
• GHG information for the following period was verified: 1st January 2021 to 
31st December 2021  
• Types of environmental data included: electricity consumption, district 
heating (steam & chilled water), natural gas consumption, fuel oil 
consumption, waste diverted from landfill, total waste and water (potable 
and non -potable) consumed  
• Intended user of the verification Opinion : Internal  and external stakeholders . 
 
Objective  
The purpose of this verification exercise were, by review of objective evidence, to 
independently review:  
•• Whether the CO 2 equivalent emissions and environmental data  are as 
declared by the organi sation’s statement  
•• That t he data reported are accurate, complete, consistent, transparent and 
free of material error or omissio n 
•• The implementation of Citigroup, Inc systems & procedures for the 
management and reporting of environmental data and the calculation of 
greenhouse gas emissions  
 
Criteria  
Criteria against which the verification assessment is undertaken are th e 
requirements of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol (for CO2 equivalent emissions 
only) and its amendments, the GHG Inventory and environmental data methodology as defined by Citigroup, Inc., and the principles of completeness, transparency, 
accuracy, consistency and relevance . 
 
 
 
 Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
178
Assurance
 
 
 
Materiality  
The materiality required of the verification was considered by SGS to be below 
10%, based on the needs of the intended user of the GHG and environmental data 
Statement  
 
Conclusion  
Citigroup, Inc. provided the GHG and environmental Statement  based on the  
requirements of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol and its amendments , the Citigroup, 
Inc. methodology and the principles of completeness, transparency, accuracy, 
consistency and relevance. The following GHG emissions and environmental data 
for the period 1st January 2021 – 31st December 2021 are verified by SGS to a 
limited leve l of assurance, consistent with the agreed verification scope, objectives 
and criteria.   
 
44,683 tCO 2e of GHG emissions Scope 1  
463,311 tCO 2e of GHG emissions Scope 2 (location based)  
60,979 tCO 2e of GHG emissions Scope 2 (market based)  
507,994 tCO 2e of total GHG emissions Scopes 1 and 2, based on Scope 2 location -
based emissions  
10,586 tCO 2e of GHG emissions Scope 3  
 
1,110.83 GWh of electricity consumption  
26.35 GWh of district heating and cooling  
178.00 GWh of natural gas  
0.74 GWh of LPG  
0.02 GWh of fue l oil 
31.59 GWh of diesel  
5,824 metric tonnes of waste diverted from landfill  
25,595 metric tonnes of total waste  
3,366,620 cubic meters of potable water consumed  
253,010 cubic meters of non -potable water consumed  
10,554 tCO 2e from business travel by air 
32 tCO 2e from business travel by rail  
 
SGS’ approach is risk -based, drawing on an understanding of the risks associated 
with modeling GHG emission information and the controls in place to mitigate these 
risks. Our examination included assessment, on a sample basis, of evidence 
relevant to the voluntary reporting of emission and environmental data . 
  SGS concludes with limited assurance that there is no evidence to suggest that the 
reported CO
2 equivalent and environmental data assertion is not materiall y correct 
and is not a fair representation of GHG and environmental data and information based on the calculation methodologies utilised . 
 Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
179
Assurance
 
 
 
We planned and performed our work to obtain the information, explanations and 
evidence that we considered necessary to provide a limited  level of assurance that 
the CO 2 equivalent  emissions and environmental data for the period 1st January – 
31st December 2021 are fairly stated.  
 
This Opinion shall be interpreted with the CO 2 equivalent and environmental data  
statement  of Citigroup, Inc. as a whole.  
 
Note: This Opinion  is issued, on behalf of Client, by SGS United Kingdom Ltd, Ross more Business Park, 
Inward Way, Ellesmere Port, Cheshire, CH65 3EN  (“SGS”) under its General Conditions for GHG 
Validation and Verification Services .The findings recorded hereon are based upon an audit performed by 
SGS.  A full copy of this Opinion  and the supporting GHG Statement  may be consulted at  Citigroup, 
Inc., 388  Greenwich Street , New York, NY 100 13. This Opinion  does not relieve Client from 
compliance with any bylaws, federal, national or regional acts and regula tions or with any guidelines 
issued pursuant to such regulations. Stipulations to the contrary are not binding on SGS and SGS shall 
have no responsibility vis -à-vis parties other than its Client.  
 Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
180
Assurance
 
GP5024  Issue 4   
 
   
 
 SGS REPORT ON CITIGROUP INC.’s “CITI’S 2021  ESG REPORT ”, SECTION  
“2021 PROJECTS COVERED BY THE EQUATOR PRINCIPLES ” 
 
NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION  
SGS was commissioned by Citigroup Inc.  to conduct an independent assurance of the “Citi’s 2021 ESG 
Report ”, section “2021  Projects Covered by the Equator Principles” . The scope of the assurance, based on the 
SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the data in accompanying tables, contained in this 
report.  
 The information in the “Citi’s 2021  ESG Report ” of Citigroup Inc.  and its presentation are the responsibility of the 
directors and the management of Citigroup Inc. SGS has not been involved in the preparation of any of the 
material included in the “Citi’s 2021  ESG Report ”. Our responsibi lity is to express an opinion on  the text, data, 
graphs and statements within the scope of verification with the intention to inform all  Citigroup Inc. ’ 
stakeholders.
 
 The SGS protocols are based upon  the internationally recognized Assurance S tandard ISAE 3000. This 
standard follows differing options for Assurance depending  on the context and capabilities of the Reporting 
Organization. This report has been assured at a limited level of scrutiny using our protocol s for evaluat ion of 
content veracity  and the alignment to  the Equator Principles and the internal policies and procedures  of 
Citigroup Inc . 
 The assurance comprised a combination of pre -assurance research, interviews with relevant employees; 
documentation and record review and the evaluation of the report for the alignment to the Equator Principles . 
 STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE  
The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing; sustainability report assurance  and greenhouse gases verification . 
SGS affirms our independence from Citigroup Inc. , being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the 
organization , its subsidiaries and stakeholders. 
 The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised a Lead Assuror f or Sustainability Reporting  and Equator Principles , Lead Verifier in 
Greenhouse Gases, and Principal Auditor registered with  IRCA (International Register of Certificated Auditors) 
in Environmental, Quality, Occupational Health & Safety, and Social Systems .  
 ASSURANCE OPINION  
Based on the methodology described and the verification work performed  on the “Citi’s 2021  ESG  Report”, 
section “ 2021  Projects Covered by the Equator Principles”
, we did not observe any circumstance that made us 
believe that the information and data contained within i s inaccurate, unreliable, or does  not provide a fair and 
balanced representation of Citigroup Inc. ’ activities in  2021 . The assurance team is of the opinion that the 
Report can be used by the Citigroup Inc. ’ Stakeholders. We believe that Citigroup Inc.  has chosen an 
appropriate level of assurance.  
  
ASSURANCE STATEMENT  Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
181
Assurance
 
GP5024  Issue 2   
CONCLU SIONS  WITH REGARDS TO EQUATOR PRINCIPLES REPORTING DATA FOR 2021  
In our opinion the “Citi’s 2021  ESG Report ” reported information of the Equator Principles , as detailed at the 
section “ 2021  Projects Covered by Equator Principles”  and is pr esented in accordance with  the Equator 
Principles I V (EP4) , Annex B “Minimum Reporting Requirement s”. 
 SGS based this opinion in the review of Citi’s internal documents and a sample of EP-covered financial 
products and their respective  EP checklists and  Independent Reviews.  
 
Citigroup Inc. reported information is aligned to the EP Reporting Criteria requirements as follows : 
 
• Public Reporting  of the EP-covered financial products separately : Project Finance Advisory Services, 
Project Finance Loans, Project-Related Corporate Loans , Bridge Loans and Project-Related Refinance 
and Project -Related Acquisition Finance . There were only Project Finance Loans and PRCL in 2021 . 
• The loans were categorized as A, B or C, dependent on the environmental and social risks posed.   
• Total number of Project Finance  Loans  and Project- Related Corporate Loans that reached Financial 
Close d uring the reporting period ( 2021 ) 
• T he Project Finance Loans and Project- Related Corporate Loans  were broken down by: Sector, 
Region, Country Designation, and whether an  whether an  Independent Review has been carried out.  
• Independent review is required for A projects and , for B projects when ne eded. Both Project Finance 
transactions were category B, and both had an  Independent Review.  
• The EP transactions were over the threshold of : 
o 10 million USD for Project Capital Cost required in the Equator Principles  IV for project 
finance loans, and  
o Over 50 million USD for Project -Related Corporate Loans (total aggregate loan amount and 
the EPFI’s individual commitment) in the Equator Principles I V 
 
• It was identified the transactions which their  combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions are expected 
to be more than 100,000 tonnes of CO
2 equivalent annually. In these cases, an annual GHG 
emissions report and a climate change risk assessment is requested  for the transaction . 
 
Lead Assessor : U rsula Antun ez  
 
 
 
Pamela Chadw ick  
Business Manager  
SGS UK Ltd  
 
Lead Sustainability Report Assuror : Ursula Antunez de Mayolo Corzo  
Date: 21st March of 2022 
 
www.sgs.com  
Contents  ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
182
Forward-Looking Statements
	
The	disclosures 	included 	in	this	report 	are	being 	provided 	to	the	public 	in	an	effort 	to	
provide 	transparency 	into	our	environmental, 	social 	and	governance 	(ESG) 	initiatives 	to	
respond 	to	stakeholder 	requests, 	and	to	further 	enhance 	our	collective 	understanding 	
of	ESG	issues. 	Our	approaches 	to	the	disclosures 	included 	in	this	report 	are	different 	
from 	those 	included 	in	mandatory 	regulatory 	reporting, 	including 	under 	SEC	regulations. 	
Certain 	statements 	in	this	report 	may	contain 	“forward-looking 	statements.” 	These 	
statements 	speak 	only	as	of	the	date	they	are	originally 	made 	and	are	based 	on	
management’s 	current 	expectations 	and	are	subject 	to	known 	and	unknown 	risks, 	
uncertainties, 	changes 	in	circumstances, 	and	assumptions 	that	are	difficult 	to	predict 	
and	are	often 	beyond 	our	control. 	These 	statements 	are	not	guarantees 	of	future 	results, 	
occurrences, 	or	performance. 	Actual 	results 	and	financial 	outcomes 	may	differ 	materially 	
from 	those 	expressed 	in	or	implied 	by	any	of	these 	forward-looking 	statements 	due	to	
a	variety 	of	factors, 	including, 	among 	others, 	global 	socio-demographic 	and	economic 	
trends, 	climate-related 	conditions 	and	weather 	events, 	legislative 	and	regulatory 	changes, 	
and	other 	unforeseen 	events 	or	conditions. 	You	should 	not	place 	undue 	reliance 	on	any	
forward-looking 	statement. 	Factors 	that	could 	cause 	actual 	results 	to	differ 	materially 	
from 	those 	described 	in	forward-looking 	statements 	can	be	found 	in	this	report, 	in	Citi’s 	
filings 	with	the	SEC, 	including, 	without 	limitation, 	the	“Risk 	Factors” 	section 	of	Citi’s 	
2021 	Annual 	Report 	on	Form 	10-K	and	disclosures 	available 	on	our	corporate 	website. 	
Citi	does 	not	undertake 	to	update 	forward-looking 	statements 	to	reflect 	the	impact 	
of	circumstances 	or	events 	that	arise 	after 	the	date	the	forward-looking 	statements 	
were 	made. 	This	report 	contains 	statements 	based 	on	hypothetical 	or	severely 	adverse 	
scenarios 	and	assumptions, 	and	these 	statements 	should 	not	necessarily 	be	viewed 	as	
being 	representative 	of	current 	or	actual 	risk	or	forecasts 	of	expected 	risk.	While 	future 	
events 	discussed 	in	this	report 	may	be	significant, 	any	significance 	should 	not	be	read 	as	
necessarily 	rising 	to	the	level 	of	materiality 	of	the	disclosures 	required 	under 	U.S.	federal 	
securities 	laws.
© 2022 Citigro up Inc. 
Citi,	Citi	with	Arc	Design 	and	Citibank 	are	trademarks 	and	servicemarks 	of	Citigroup 	Inc.	
(and	its	affiliates) 	and	are	used 	and	registered 	throughout 	the	world.Contents ESG at Citi Sustainable Finance Sustainable Progress  Equitable & Resilient Communities Talent & DEI Risk Management & Responsible Business Appendices
CITI 2021 ESG REPORT
183
