2021 
Environmental,  
Social, Governance and  
Sustainability Report
Consistent with Edison Electric Institute (EEI) and American Gas Association (AGA) templateA Letter from Our President and CEO
At CMS Energy, we strive to lead in everything we do. It’s leadership that drives our purpose of World Class 
Performance Delivering Hometown Service. I’m proud of our more than 9,300 co-workers, including the more 
than 8,700 at our largest subsidiary, Consumers Energy. Together, they provide essential services to customers 
throughout Michigan’s Lower Peninsula. They share a deep commitment to deliver on our promise to serve our 
customers, our communities, our investors, our state and each other. Throughout this report, you’ll read about 
the many ways we’re creating a sustainable energy future for Michigan. These include:
This report includes data showing our environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance. You’ll also read 
stories about how our performance shows up in service to our customers, our communities and our state. It’s my 
hope you’ll come away inspired by all we’re doing to cultivate a brighter, cleaner future.
Garrick J. Rochow  
President and Chief Executive Officer • CMS Energy and Consumers Energy  Leading the clean energy transformation through our pledge  
to our triple bottom line – people, planet and prosperity. 
We’re proud of our recent pledge to deliver industry leading net zero methane and carbon emission 
targets for our customers, investors and our planet — it’s the opportunity of our generation. Our success 
in this important work depends on partnering with our customers to optimize energy demands in 
innovative ways like our energy efficiency programs. We’ll also continue our legacy of justly and equitably 
transitioning our co-workers and supporting our communities as our coal plants close.
Delivering excellence that’s grounded in our commitment to our corporate values. 
We must never lose sight that we’re here to serve our customers, co-workers, communities and investors, 
our state and each other. Our service is more than just delivering electricity and natural gas — it’s light 
and heat, economic vitality and the quality of life that our customers and communities have come to 
expect. My co-workers show up every day with a heart of service, while recognizing that we can always 
do better. We can always improve the value we provide for our customers. We can always work safer. It’s a 
commitment to Excellence. 
Creating an environment where all contributions are  
heard and valued, and everyone knows they belong.  
“I see you, and you belong.” That’s the title of our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion statement. This is 
an important statement because it opens us up to see each other and create spaces where everyone 
belongs. We cannot afford to think of the events of the past year as just moments in time. They must 
be a movement — a sustained motion that spurs transformation. As a leader, I choose movement.2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 2Consideration of 
environmental, social 
and governance issues is 
embedded in our strategy, 
business planning 
and enterprise risk 
management processes. About This Report
CMS Energy has integrated sustainable practices throughout our corporation. Our 
commitment to our triple bottom line — people, planet and prosperity — is our 
foundation. As the parent company of Michigan’s largest utility, Consumers Energy, 
consideration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues is embedded 
in our strategy, business planning and enterprise risk management processes. 
These commitments align with our purpose: World Class Performance Delivering 
Hometown Service. The triple bottom line balances the interests of all stakeholders, 
including co-workers, customers, suppliers, regulators, Michigan residents and the 
investment community.
CMS Energy participates in a voluntary industry initiative, coordinated by the 
Edison Electric Institute (EEI) and the American Gas Association (AGA), to 
provide the public, our customers and shareholders uniform and consistent ESG 
and sustainability-related metrics. This report supplements our existing disclosures 
on these issues, including the content on our sustainability website , which shares 
more about our sustainability efforts.2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 3Early Elimination  
of Coal Will:
Reduce carbon dioxide 
emissions by 63 million tons.
Which is like parking all of the 
registered automobiles in Michigan, 
Illinois and Ohio for a year. 
Reduce 220 billion gallons  
of water use from our electric 
generating system each year. 
Which equals more than  
5 billion bathtubs of water.
Avoid 3 billion cubic  
yards of coal ash waste  
from our electric  
generating system.
Which equals about 200 million  
dump trucks full of dirt.SECTION 1
Our Sustainability Story
Environment
Our commitment to the environment is a pillar of our sustainability efforts. Our Clean 
Energy Plan is one way we demonstrate that commitment, but we also focus on many other 
environmental goals across our business operations to better serve Michigan’s future.
Clean Energy Plan
In June 2021, we announced a sweeping proposal to power Michigan’s future with clean energy. 
Our Clean Energy Plan, also referred to as our Integrated Resource Plan, is a bold, 20-year 
blueprint to guide our electric business. It positions us as an industry leader and protects the 
environment for generations to come. The plan, which requires regulatory approval, will:
• End coal use by 2025 – 15 years sooner than planned: Accelerating the 
elimination of coal as a fuel source for electricity will dramatically improve air 
quality, cut greenhouse gas emissions, reduce waste sent to landfills and save 
water.
• Increase renewable energy:  By 2040, more than 60% of our electric 
capacity will come from renewable sources. We’ve already begun tapping 
more solar power and plan to add nearly 8,000 megawatts by 2040.
• Transition to a smarter grid: Energy efficiency programs and emerging 
technologies, such as grid modernization and battery storage, will help us 
lower peak customer demand and deliver the precise amount of electricity that 
Michigan needs. 
• Offer more control and savings for customers: We’ll provide customers with 
the power to increase energy efficiency and save money. Their participation is key 
to our success. We expect to save customers about $650 million through 2040.
• Create a flexible strategy: Our plan is designed to respond to emerging needs, 
adapt to changing conditions and embrace new, innovative technologies as we 
work to achieve net zero carbon emissions.
• Ensure reliability through natural gas-fired plants:  During this historic 
transition away from coal generation, we plan to acquire four existing natural 
gas-fired power plants.
This plan would also help us reduce carbon emissions from owned generation by about 80% 
from 2005 levels by 2040. These aggressive proposed reductions are faster than required by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s recommendation to limit global temperature 
increases to less than 1.5 degrees Celsius and Michigan’s net zero goal, which is part of an 
executive order for the state to reach 100% carbon neutrality by 2050.2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 42021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 5
“We’re determined to do what’s right, not merely what’s required, to protect Michigan’s 
environment while supplying the energy we’ll need for decades to come,” said Garrick 
Rochow, president and CEO of CMS Energy and Consumers Energy.
We’re also a proud member of the Low-Carbon Resources Initiative, a five-year effort led 
by the Electric Power Research Institute and the Gas Technology Institute to accelerate 
the development and use of low-carbon energy technologies.
Renewable Energy
Our Clean Energy Plan also includes major expansions of our renewable generation 
by 2040. We plan to add capacity incrementally, allowing flexibility in planning and 
resource type to adapt to changing conditions. Our goal is to add nearly 8,000 megawatts 
of solar energy in the 2020s and 2030s. We plan to add the solar capacity, a mix of owned 
and purchased power, through a competitively bid annual solicitation process to keep 
costs low.
The 2021 Clean Energy Plan forecasts renewable capacity levels of:
• 35% by 2025
• 47% by 2030
• 63% by 2040
When our renewable generation is combined with our advances in energy storage and 
customer efficiency programs, we plan to meet our customers’ electricity needs on the 
hottest days with 90% clean energy resources. In addition, since 2005, our renewable 
nameplate capacity, including from power purchase agreements, has grown from 3% to 
11%. We look forward to continued growth as we transition from coal to renewables in 
support of our Clean Energy Plan.
We currently own and operate four wind parks in Michigan: Lake Winds Energy Park 
in Mason County (100 MW), Cross Winds Energy Park (231 MW) in Tuscola County, 
Crescent Wind Farm (166 MW) in Hillsdale County and Gratiot Farms Wind Project 
(150 MW) in Gratiot County. The Heartland Wind Farm (about 200 MW) in Gratiot 
County is scheduled to come online in 2022.
Our efforts to increase new renewable energy sources extend beyond wind parks.  
We’ve also:
• Procured about 300 megawatts of new solar capacity, including 
the Calhoun Solar Center (140 MW) and the Mustang Mile 
project (150 MW) scheduled to come online in 2022. We plan to 
add 300 MW in 2023 and plan for another 500 MW in 2024. 
• Expanded available capacity of our Solar Gardens program to 
include a new 500-kilowatt (kW) site in Cadillac. This resource, 
along with the existing 3-MW site at Grand Valley State University 
and the 1-MW site at Western Michigan University, provide an 
easy and affordable way for customers to subscribe to solar energy 
without having to purchase and install their own panels.
Planet Goals Update
In 2018, we affirmed our commitment to 
protect the planet by pursuing five-year  
goals to:   
• Save 1 billion gallons of water.
•  Enhance, restore or protect   
5,000 acres of land in Michigan.
• Reduce waste sent to landfills by 35%.We’ve met each of our planet goals and are 
evaluating new targets for the coming years. 
Our goals were met by company-wide 
efforts like clean-ups, improving wildlife 
habitats, increasing recycling at our facili -
ties and finding new ways to reduce water 
consumption.
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 6
• Served the needs of businesses in meeting their sustainability goals through 
the Large Customer Renewable Energy Program, which expanded from 
155,000 MWh to 400,000 MWh of available capacity in 2020. Customer 
demand has increased significantly for corporate renewable procurement.
• Launched four new Renewable Energy Credit pilots in 2021, which provided 
an expanded set of options for business customers to get renewable energy 
credits from Michigan and national resources. The new Michigan REC 
pilot is also available to residential and business customers who choose to 
match a portion (or all) of their electric use with renewable energy credits.
Energy Efficiency
Our Clean Energy Plan relies on energy efficiency as a key to reduce our company’s carbon 
emissions to build a more sustainable future for Michigan. 
“Reducing energy is good for people, the planet and Michigan’s prosperity by saving money 
for household budgets, reducing carbon emissions and putting people to work,” said Brian 
Rich, Consumers Energy’s Senior Vice President and Chief Customer Officer.
In 2020, our energy efficiency programs helped customers save nearly $700,000 on their 
energy bills and boosted our total customer savings $3.9 billion from 2009 through 
2020. They also prevented more than 18.7 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions. The 
cumulative 2009-2020 savings are equivalent to supplying electricity to more than 2.5 
million homes and natural gas to 1 million homes for a year.
We received the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s 2021 ENERGY STAR® Partner of 
the Year Sustained Excellence Award in recognition of our efforts.
Electric Vehicle Programs 
In 2019, Consumers Energy launched the PowerMIDriveTM program, a three-year effort 
to expand charging and grid capabilities to help customers realize the economic and 
environmental benefits of electric vehicles (EVs). The additional charging stations reduce 
the anxiety many consumers feel about not knowing if their cars will have enough power 
to reach their destinations. Since the program launched, we’ve increased EV charging 
capabilities and public charging infrastructure across our electric service territory. In 
many cases, we’ve done so through providing rebates to customers, businesses and agencies 
wishing to join in the success of Michigan’s transition to EVs. We’ve also partnered with the 
Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy (EGLE) to provide 24, of a 
planned 36, direct-current fast charger rebates across the Lower Peninsula of Michigan. 
Consumers Energy also enrolled more than 700 customers in a year-round time-of-use 
rate, which provides lower rates for EV charging during off-peak hours when energy use 
is normally at its lowest. Initial data showed this rate successfully encouraged off-peak 
charging, with about 90% of charging happening during off-peak times on weekdays and 
over 78% off-peak charging on weekends. 
In 2021, Consumers Energy launched PowerMIFleetTM, a three-year pilot program designed 
to help fleet owners transition to electric vehicles while keeping the grid operating efficiently 
and sustainably for all customers. The program offers assessments, rebates and electrical 
upgrades to help business customers get their sites ready for EVs. 
We’re also electrifying our own fleet. We’ve set a goal to electrify 30% of our fleet over the 
next 10 years, including our light-duty vehicles. We expect the transition will save more 
than $17 million over those vehicles lifetimes. Currently, 5.5% of our vehicles are electric. 
We have over 90 all-electric or plug-in hybrids on the roads today. We’re incorporating 
changes in a structured approach that ensures the technology will meet the demands of 
service and that we remain agile in the process.Three Organizations 
Recognized with 
Energy Efficiency 
Project of the Year 
Awards
From schools to packaging 
manufacturers to breweries – 
companies across the state are 
embracing energy efficiency and a 
clean energy future for Michigan. 
Three of those organizations – 
Westwood Heights School District 
of Flint, Graphic Packaging 
International and Presidential 
Brewing Company of Portage – were 
honored with 2019 Consumers Energy 
Energy Efficiency Project of the Year 
awards.
The awards highlight specific 
projects demonstrating a 
commitment to reduce energy use, 
save customers money and protect 
our planet for future generations.
Westwood Heights partnered 
with Unesco to install new HVAC 
equipment, LED lighting and controls 
in the district’s Michael Hanady 
Middle & High School to save energy 
and money and improve the learning 
environment for students and 
teachers.
“Actions speak louder than words” 
said Jill Diliberti, Energy Manager 
at Genesee Intermediate School 
District. “Seeing the changes at the 
school, how it’s a well-lit, comfortable 
learning environment, that speaks 
volumes.”
+ Learn More Here
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 7
Improving Our Electric Infrastructure
A sustainable future also means strengthening our grid to prepare for climate 
change effects like more frequent and severe storms. In 2021, we filed an updated 
Electric Distribution Infrastructure Investment Plan (EDIIP), which is a blueprint of our 
five-year strategy to improve our electric distribution system and the reliability of our 
grid. Our plans dedicate over $1 billion annually to projects to reduce the number and 
duration of power outages for our 1.9 million electric customers.
Our EDIIP will increase reliability performance through:
• Infrastructure upgrades:  Portions of our high- and low-voltage 
distribution network are aging. Our proactive investments 
aim to replace or rebuild poles, wires and substations, with a 
goal of improving 1,000 miles of our system each year.
• Tree trimming: Traditional tree trimming is still a highly effective way 
to prevent and shorten power outages and improve system reliability. Our 
plan includes a significant investment in forestry management — more 
than $500 million over five years — that will keep distribution lines clear.
• Grid modernization: Smart meters, sensors and automation devices 
work together to serve customers. These tools help us optimize 
power delivery and solve problems often before customers notice.
Our plans also include increasing training for electric operations co-workers and 
heightening cybersecurity to keep our electrical grid running safely.
Natural Gas Delivery Plan
We’re updating our natural gas delivery system to ensure safe, reliable, affordable and 
clean energy. We also expect the role of natural gas to evolve as electrification expands, 
providing exciting opportunities to support the planet. That’s why our 10-year, $11 
billion Natural Gas Delivery Plan includes: 
• Investing to make our infrastructure and processes safer and 
more reliable while reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
• Reducing our emissions through investing in new, more durable pipes 
with improved leak protection compared to historical pipe materials.
• Exploring the use of emerging technologies to help  
our customers and suppliers reduce their emissions.
Mission to Cut Methane 
We’re creating a cleaner energy future for Michigan by reducing emissions of methane, a 
greenhouse gas 25 times more potent than carbon dioxide. Over the past decade, we’ve 
reduced methane emissions from our natural gas distribution system by more than 15% 
and plan to achieve net zero methane emissions by 10,000 metric tons by 2030, which 
equates to reducing 10,000 metric tons of methane.
We’re also pursuing new opportunities to use renewable natural gas by capturing 
methane emissions. Renewable natural gas is derived from sources of methane like 
organic waste from farms, wastewater facilities and industrial sites. Methane, which 
would otherwise be emitted into the atmosphere, is captured and converted into 
pipeline quality natural gas. Our investment in renewable natural gas offers Michigan’s 
agricultural and transportation sectors an innovative way to reduce their greenhouse gas 
emissions. Our Methane Reduction Plan  further details our efforts
Reducing methane by 
10,000 metric tons a year 
is like preserving more 
than 300,000 acres of 
forests.
An intentional focus on our 
culture allows co-workers 
to thrive and succeed in an 
environment where their 
voices are heard and their 
contributions matter. 2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 8
SOCIAL
Our success in achieving our ESG goals extends beyond our environmental 
commitments. We also continuously work to maintain — and often improve  
upon — our social goals through prioritizing our values, safety, and Diversity Equity 
and Inclusion (DE&I) efforts. We’re also committed to care for our co-workers and 
communities through just principles and giving.
Culture Values Drive All Our Actions
Our culture mindset guides the actions and behaviors of all co-workers, allowing 
everyone to work safely to serve our customers and our communities. Each value in the 
culture mindset is critically important, and together they align with our strategy and 
drive our actions. 
The actions of our co-workers are what makes our company unique. An intentional focus 
on our culture allows co-workers to thrive and succeed in an environment where their 
voices are heard and their contributions matter. 
Health and Safety
The health and safety of our co-workers is always a top priority. We’ve worked hard to 
improve our safety culture and performance, which has resulted in a greater than 70% 
decrease in safety incidents since 2008. We continue to stay focused on our goal of zero 
high-risk incidents.
We’ve implemented a proactive, risk-based program in partnership with the Edison 
Electric Institute (EEI) and other utilities. The Safety Classification and Learning Model 
allows us to address safety precursors, such as “Safety Good Catches” or “Stop the Job” 
and implement controls to prevent serious injuries or deaths.
We also continue to emphasize the safety of our communities and community members 
as we look for opportunities to improve our infrastructure and educate our customers 
and those who live and work near our facilities.
Our COVID-19 Response
In 2020, we added COVID-19 to our list of safety priorities. Since then, our company has 
taken many steps to protect our co-workers and customers from the spread of COVID-19 
and help those directly affected. In alignment with Centers for Disease Control 
guidelines and the orders and rules from the state of Michigan, we changed customer 
interactions to promote health and safety. We also equipped our frontline co-workers 
with appropriate personal protective equipment and adjusted co-worker policies to 
provide better support. In addition, we made emotional well-being a top priority.
Coworker Shares Story to Help Others
Caring for our co-workers is something that 
makes us stand out as a sustainable company. 
When COVID -19 struck lineworker Eric 
Florka in April 2020, it started with symptoms 
that he thought were allergies and led to a 
44-day hospital stay.
 He also lost 40 pounds during his six-
month battle against the deadly disease. 
Florka said it felt like “death was knocking at 
his door.” Despite needing a ventilator and blood 
transfusion, Florka fully recovered. His story 
touched others and served as a reminder to 
follow safety guidelines. 
As a company we responded seriously 
to COVID -19. Sick co-workers were allowed 
unlimited time off to recover. 
Our essential workers stayed on the job and 
followed strict guidelines to keep themselves 
and our customers safe. 
Other co-workers demonstrated agility in a 
quick transition to remote work.
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 9
We also created a $12 million fund  to help Michigan residents and small businesses 
struggling to pay their energy bills due to COVID-19. The fund provided a lifeline to help 
those in need. Consumers Energy has set a goal to help about 25,000 households and 
1,000 small businesses with this new assistance. Our Emergency Response  webpage offers 
additional information. 
Cybersecurity
We understand and acknowledge the risks posed by today’s cybersecurity threats. Our 
Board of Directors (board) is responsible for overseeing our cybersecurity risks. These risks 
are managed through a robust security program that includes people, processes, technology 
and governance structures. Our board oversight includes regular program updates and 
third-party audits. Two board members have extensive industry experience in cybersecurity. 
Security is an integrated organization accountable for both cyber and physical security and 
reports to a senior vice president.
Our processes include a review of all security-related projects prior to implementation. A 
dedicated team monitors our environment and regularly shares threat information with 
peers, state and federal partners. We also conduct regular drills, exercises, vulnerability 
assessments and penetration tests to assess the security of our systems. Additional areas of 
focus include risk management, data privacy and compliance.
We have a strong security culture through annual training, which includes courses on a 
variety of security-related topics. We also conduct monthly phishing tests through our Don’t 
Take the Bait program, which asks co-workers to report suspicious emails that demonstrate 
common phishing tactics in real-world scenarios. When co-workers click on a test-phishing 
email, they are provided with information on cybersecurity best practices. We monitor our 
Don’t Take the Bait statistics every month and communicate this data with co-workers to 
further emphasize their important role in cybersecurity.
Human Rights
We’re committed to help create a world where all people are respected and included, valued 
for their unique qualities and abilities, treated fairly and afforded the opportunity to 
advance. We protect the rights of women, minorities, LGBTQ+, veterans and all people. To 
help accomplish this vision, all co-workers are expected to be strong ethical community 
partners and form positive relationships wherever we do business. We will:
• Work to avoid causing or contributing to human rights violations.
• Mitigate and/or remediate adverse human rights impacts.
• Prohibit the use of child labor, forced labor, human 
trafficking and modern slavery.
• Be transparent in our efforts, successes and challenges.
A Majestic Spin on and Green Energy 
We’re harvesting Michigan’s winds to generate 
clean, renewable energy. 
In February, we added the Crescent Wind 
Farm in Hillsdale County to our wind park 
operations. We also own wind parks in Mason, 
Tuscola and Gratiot counties. 
Our Gratiot Farms Wind Project 
began operating in late 2020, and we took customers on a virtual tour through 
construction.
Together, our majestic, revolving towers 
crank out enough wattage to power about 
250,000 Michigan residents. 
With each new wind park, we generate 
new jobs and churn out tax revenue for local 
governments and schools.
+ Watch Video
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 10
Our Human Rights Policy  further details this commitment. It details our stance and 
standards on diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I), fair and equitable pay, our ethics 
and compliance training, investigation of concerns, and employee responsibilities for 
knowing, understanding and following all regulations, laws and policies that apply 
to their jobs. It also explains employee requirements to report concerns or potential 
misconduct. Our Code of Conduct , which applies to all co-workers, further emphasizes 
our commitment.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 
As a company, our commitment to DE&I is long-standing. Our first Employee Resource 
Group (ERG), the Women’s Advisory Panel, was founded in the mid-1980s. Over the 
years, we’ve expanded to seven flourishing groups:
• capABLE: Removes barriers, opening minds, creating pathways to 
meaningful work for current and future co-workers of all abilities.
• GENERGY:  Bridges the gap of learning, networking and 
mentoring across the generations of our workforce.
• Minority Advisory Panel:  Promotes a culture of diversity 
and inclusion among all racial and ethnic minorities through 
education, leadership, development and networking.
• Pride Alliance of Consumers Energy:  Promotes an inclusive 
environment that is safe, supportive and respectful for lesbian, 
gay, bi-sexual and transgender persons and allies.
• Veteran’s Advisory Panel:  Provides support to former 
active military personnel and assists in recruiting and 
retaining veterans through career development.
• Women’s Advisory Panel:  Supports the retention, 
development and success of women at our company.
• Women’s Engineering Network:  Empowers women in Science,  
Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) fields  
while building capabilities to support company objectives.
Three separate organizations recognized us in 2020 for our outstanding commitment 
to creating a stronger, veteran-friendly employer environment, including through the 
efforts of our Veterans Advisory Panel. 
In 2020, we created Inclusion Champion roles in our union workforce. Inclusion 
Champions are full-time team members, comprised of both union and exempt 
Meeting the hunger and economic needs in “Our Town”
From restaurants to families in need — the 
COVID -19 pandemic hit our neighbors hard. 
We joined Jackson-area partners in 
February 2021 to help fund the 10-week, Our 
Town program. 
The program helped distribute 41,983 
healthy meals to local families. Local 
restaurants prepared the meals, and much 
of the food was locally sourced to further 
support the community. 
Nearly $500,000 contributed by us and 
several community partners kept small 
businesses open and restaurant workers 
employed during some of the most difficult 
weeks of the pandemic. “In the Martin Luther King Center, we have a 
quote from Martin Luther King that says life’s 
most urgent question is, ‘what are you doing 
for others?’ I think Consumers speaks to that,” 
said center director Antonio Parker. 
“They say, ‘we’re not going to wait, we are 
going to do for others.’”
The program inspired a similar effort in 
Shiawassee County. 
We were proud to meet the hunger and 
economic needs of our community and help 
inspire efforts across the state. 
+ Watch Video
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 11
co-workers, who actively contribute to our overarching DE&I goal of belonging 
through leading grassroots communication efforts, sharing opportunities for 
involvement, identifying and addressing gaps, problem solving and providing 
continuous learning and development at a local level. 
Although DE&I has been a key part of our culture for a long time, recent racial 
discrimination and social injustice events across the nation have accelerated our 
DE&I efforts. Our mission is to drive success in three key pillars that encompass the 
entirety of our co-worker, customer, community and investor interactions.
• Our culture: We embed DE&I into our culture to focus on educating 
our co-workers and leaders on DE&I and highlighting opportunities 
in which they can contribute to create an inclusive environment. 
• Our processes:  We ensure that all our processes have a 
DE&I focus. We believe that DE&I proficient people and 
DE&I proficient processes yield better DE&I outcomes.
• Our talent: We work to build a diverse, equitable and inclusive 
workforce through our strategies to attract and retain 
diverse talent. This begins with a talent-sourcing strategy 
that recruits in areas representative of all demographics and 
allows us to build diverse, qualified candidate pools. Creating 
a diverse and inclusive workforce expands beyond strategic 
sourcing to the processes we use in our co-worker lifecycle 
(e.g. hiring, promoting, developing, succession planning).
In 2021, we launched a from-the-top DE&I learning model for all our co-workers, 
starting with company leaders. This includes unconscious bias training for all 
leaders by 2021 and 100% of our workforce by 2022. By training everyone in core 
DE&I concepts — such as the role that unconscious bias plays in our personal and 
professional relationships and decision-making — we’re building a solid foundation 
that makes DE&I an integral part of our work experience. 
We’re inclusive in our hiring through diverse candidate pools and hiring committees 
for every position posted. We engage in long- and short-term talent pipeline 
development using the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Talent Pipeline ManagementTM 
system. Accurately forecasting demand for critical positions enables formation of key 
partnerships with K-12, post-secondary institutions and professional associations 
to prepare a diverse, qualified workforce for immediate and future needs. We also 
support and advocate for science, technology, engineering and math education in 
Michigan to grow our workforce and raise awareness of career pathways in the energy 
industry.
Our commitment to our DE&I strategy goes beyond the walls of our company. We’re 
also looking outward to serve as a driving force for good in our service territory and 
throughout Michigan. Our recent efforts include:
• Strengthening our relationships with veterans through donations, 
including Tee It Up for Troops and Veterans in Energy.
• Donating to support social justice issues, fight racism and 
create systemic change and opportunities in Michigan.
• Helping lead efforts to add gender identity and sexual orientation to the 
list of protected classes under the state’s Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act.
• Supporting efforts to increase ethnic and racial diversity in 
business ownership and entrepreneurship in West Michigan. 
• Working with our suppliers to better gauge their stance 
on DE&I and how it aligns with ours to ensure best 
business practices throughout the supply chain.
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 12
Additionally, we’re actively maturing our existing supplier diversity initiative to 
create a sustainable, long-term initiative that includes an expanded diverse supplier 
network, validating certification of diverse vendors and Enhanced Tier II reporting 
for suppliers of our suppliers. Our supplier diversity investments help fuel our goal to 
double spending with diverse suppliers by the end of 2023. 
Our stand for DE&I will continue with our customers, co-workers, communities 
and investors. Our comprehensive DE&I strategy allows us to focus on all aspects of 
diversity and create a company that is inclusive of all ideas in the pursuit of the best 
outcome.
Labor Rights
We also prioritize labor rights. CMS Energy and its subsidiaries comply with 
all applicable U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning our 
co-workers and labor issues in each of the states where we conduct business. 
Standards, including those found in the International Labor Organization (ILO) 87 
and 98, help inform our approach. 
We acknowledge our employee’s rights to associate freely and bargain collectively. 
Co-workers are expected to comply with federal and state laws and to our 
company’s policies and collective bargaining agreement provisions, as applicable. 
Our Labor Rights Policy  is available on the CMS Energy webpage.
We conduct annual audits to ensure our policies and practices provide a workplace 
free of harassment and discrimination. The process includes reviews of hiring, 
terminations, promotion data, external outreach and vendor contracts. We also 
conduct annual compensation reviews for pay equity through a third party. 
Additionally, we expect that those we do business with comply with our labor right’s 
expectations. We ask that third parties operate safely and in a manner that reflects 
our values. For more information, see our Third-Party Code of Conduct . 
Just Transition
Our proposed Clean Energy Plan is a sweeping change for our company. For most of 
the last 135 years, we’ve functioned as a traditional utility, using baseload, coal-fired 
power plants to generate and deliver electricity to customers. 
Reinventing ourselves as a cleaner, leaner and more flexible energy company produces 
significant benefits for customers, co-workers and the communities we serve. But 
we also recognize our bold plans are accompanied by sacrifice and can create new 
challenges.
Helping Monarch Butterflies Flourish
In 2020, we joined a national effort to support 
monarch butterflies. 
The Candidate Conservation Agreement 
with Assurances (CCAA) is led by the U.S. 
Fish and Wildlife service and is an ongoing, 
voluntary conservation agreement to protect 
and manage monarch butterflies. 
We survey our lands for butterflies and 
milkweed — the only host plant of monarch 
caterpillars. This agreement helps us protect 
monarchs by using best practices to manage 
forestry and maintenance on our lands and right of ways. As one of Michigan’s 
largest landowners, we can make a notable 
difference in species survival. That’s why we’ve 
dedicated more than 250,000 acres of land 
toward the project.
The agreement also simplifies our permit 
process because it assures agencies that 
we are committed to protect and restore 
monarch butterfly habitats on our lands. 
+ Read More Here
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 13
We are committed to solve these issues as justly and equitably as possible as we 
move away from using coal as a fuel source for electricity.
The plants we’ve recently retired or have proposed closing earlier have served our 
company and customers faithfully for decades. As in the past, we plan to support 
the co-workers and communities affected by early plant retirements by finding 
new roles for those who want to stay. 
Progress at the seven coal-fired units we retired in 2016 is proof we’re keeping 
those promises. In all cases, we found new roles for co-workers who wanted to stay 
with our company and helped local leaders pursue new economic possibilities — a 
philosophy we plan to follow with proposed retirements at our Campbell complex 
near Holland (2025) and Karn complex near Bay City (2023).
Environmental Justice
Environmental justice refers to protecting communities, especially the most 
vulnerable, from harm caused by industrial practices, including when industries 
move away from communities. Although we adhere to all regulatory requirements 
involving our coal facilities, it’s inevitable that coal plants can have a negative 
impact because of carbon emissions and coal ash ponds at the sites.
Our Clean Energy Plan and our previous coal plant retirements demonstrate our 
commitment to protect communities from environmental injustices. When our 
coal-fired plants closed in 2016, our efforts included restoring the areas around the 
facilities. We also created new habitats for bees, butterflies and waterfowl.
In Muskegon, redevelopment of the former Cobb Plant is part of a broader vision 
to restore habitat and revitalize the economy along Muskegon Lake. And the site 
of the former Whiting Plant in Luna Pier has been prepared for redevelopment 
and marketed for new uses.
While ending coal use is the centerpiece of our Clean Energy Plan, our plan also 
calls for adding thousands of megawatts of wind and solar energy through 2040 
when renewables would comprise more than 60% of electric capacity.
Reaching our goals requires building wind and solar generation facilities in 
Michigan or buying electricity generated from projects developed by others. 
In either case, we’re committed to operating as good corporate neighbors and 
working with landowners and local communities to select the optimal locations, 
communicate clearly about project plans and benefits and minimize impacts to 
the environment.
To help deliver the benefits of solar energy more equitably, we’ve launched a new 
“Sunrise” component of our Solar Gardens program, allowing community action 
Picture Perfect
In May 2020, the Consumers Energy 
Foundation donated $1.8 million to 
community organizations supporting 
small businesses across Michigan, focusing 
on helping female-and minority-owned 
companies.
Beth Price owns a photography business 
in her hometown of Traverse City. Preferably 
with freshwater as her theme, she often snaps 
her shots while wearing a wetsuit, fins and a 
swim mask in her beloved Lake Michigan.
But it was the figurative shot in the arm she 
received in spring 2020 – a local grant from the Regional Resiliency Fund, administered 
by Venture North and supported by the 
Consumers Energy Foundation – that kept 
her going through the economic challenges 
created by COVID-19.
“I was thrilled and humbled to receive the 
grant. It spoke to me in a dark, uncertain time 
that what I do really matters,” Price said. “My 
community was telling me, ‘We believe in your 
business and we believe in what you’re doing 
here in Northern Michigan. You’re part of us.’”
+ Learn More Here
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 14
agencies and nonprofit organizations to subscribe to solar gardens on behalf  
of income-qualified customers. The program also provides credits on their  
utility bills.
Once wind parks and solar projects begin operating, we maintain and operate 
our facilities according to the highest safety and environmental standards and 
continue to abide by local regulations. 
We’re committed to doing what’s right to ensure positive working relationships 
with the communities where our generating facilities are located.
Consumers Energy Foundation
Consumers Energy has given back to Michigan for nearly 135 years, and since 
1990, we’ve helped local communities grow and thrive through the Consumers 
Energy Foundation. 
The foundation, our company and co-workers provide support for organizations 
and efforts to help people, protect the planet and promote prosperity. In 2020,  
the foundation donated nearly $9.7 million to Michigan nonprofits. 
Since 2009, foundation giving has totaled more than $51 million and Consumers 
Energy has donated an additional $81 million, for a combined amount of $132 
million given back to nonprofits and communities across the state. 
Foundation giving is separate from other company contributions and cannot be 
used to directly benefit the corporation. The foundation is funded by company 
donations, not included in customer rates. 
When COVID-19 arrived in Michigan, the foundation acted swiftly to support 
communities. The foundation paused regular grantmaking and dedicated 
unallocated funds to address the challenges facing Michigan’s residents and small 
businesses. In 2020, more than $5.4 million of foundation funds were directed to 
Michigan’s nonprofits to support COVID-19 relief. 
More than $1.8 million went to support nonprofits providing food and basic needs, 
including 1.5 million meals through food banks, school programs, quarantine 
boxes for isolated and home-bound senior citizens and mobile food distribution. 
The foundation also provided a lifeline to female and minority-owned businesses 
through more than $2.4 million in donations, which were distributed to 29 
organizations across Michigan. 
Additional funds were provided to community foundations that offered emergency 
relief and programs that served Michigan’s most vulnerable populations during 
the pandemic.
Employee Giving 
One of our greatest points of pride during our COVID-19 response was how our 
co-workers stepped up and used their own dollars to care for our neighbors across 
the state. We created a special program that matched all employee donations that 
were made to qualifying nonprofit organizations through July 31, 2020. 
Our foundation matched, dollar-for-dollar, approximately $260,000 donated by 
261 co-workers, and contributed to 110 nonprofits across Michigan. 
Throughout the remainder of 2020, additional employee donations were matched 
up to $1,000 through our existing matching gifts program, which contributed 
nearly $100,000 additional dollars to nonprofits.
In 2020, the Consumers Energy 
Foundation, Consumers Energy 
and its co-workers and retirees 
contributed more than $19 million 
to Michigan nonprofits.
Hardship Relief
The CMS Energy Hardship Relief 
Fund provides short-term financial 
assistance to co-workers who 
experience hardships such as natural 
disasters, accidents and the death 
of family member. Applicants can 
receive up to $5,000 in hardship 
funds to pay for expenses like 
housing assistance, transportation 
and medical care. The fund is 
supported through CMS Energy and 
coworker contributions and further 
demonstrates our culture of caring.
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 15
Governance
CMS Energy and Consumers Energy have multiple levels of sustainability oversight 
integrated into daily operations. We use several governance and risk-management 
tools when addressing ESG and sustainability matters. These include oversight by 
the board, an enterprise risk management (ERM) program and robust strategic and 
business planning processes. 
Board Oversight
Our board is comprised of directors with experience and knowledge of ESG 
and sustainability issues and has the highest level of oversight over our ESG and 
sustainability practices. Review of these practices occurs at the board level by the: 
• Audit Committee 
• Governance, Sustainability and Public Responsibility 
Committee (Governance Committee) 
• Compensation and Human Resources 
Committee (Compensation Committee) 
The Audit Committee oversees our ERM framework, which includes strategic and 
operational risks, as well as the processes, guidelines and policies for identifying, 
assessing, monitoring and mitigating such risks. 
The Governance Committee is responsible for reviewing and evaluating the 
composition of the board, recommending board nominees, broadly overseeing the 
corporate governance and advising and assisting the board on public responsibility 
and sustainability matters. 
Acknowledging the growing importance of sustainability and climate-related 
matters, the board in 2018, formally tasked the Governance Committee with 
oversight of sustainability practices by adding this responsibility to its charter. 
The Compensation Committee is responsible for our executive compensation 
structure, benefit and compensation plans and critical human resource programs. 
The committee charters and other governance documents, including our Corporate 
Governance Principles, can be found at CMSEnergy.com . 
Our Environment & Sustainability Council (E&SC), comprised of senior leadership, 
also guides our environmental compliance and sustainability programs and 
governs decisions that support our commitment to the planet. This includes short- 
and long-term strategic decisions pertaining to environmental issues including 
climate and ESG disclosure reporting.
Teams Stay Green During COVID -19
Our Green Teams make a positive 
environmental impact across the state. These 
teams get their hands dirty near their office 
locations and hometowns. 
COVID -19 guidelines halted most 
volunteering for 2020, but our teams stayed 
active with at-home challenges, including 
family-friendly activities like making 
birdhouses, holiday cards and Halloween 
costumes. In the past, Green Teams have 
also planted community gardens and built 
greenhouses from recycled plastic.Our Green Teams also hosted a company-
wide virtual conference to inspire others to go 
green. Attendees learned about our pollinator 
habitats and efforts to stop the spread of 
invasive species and received some how-to on 
backyard beekeeping. 
The event also included virtual chats 
with company executives, including Garrick 
Rochow, our president and CEO. 
In the spring of 2021, our teams reunited to 
clean and spruce our communities and make 
the world a greener place.
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 16
Enterprise Risk Management
In addition to a robust oversight structure, we maintain an ERM program 
to ensure risks that may significantly impact the business are known and 
understood and to inform risk-mitigation strategies. The scope, roles and 
responsibilities related to the ERM program are included in our corporate risk 
policy, which is approved by the board’s Audit Committee. The ERM program 
covers risks for CMS Energy and its subsidiaries across many areas: strategic, 
operational, regulatory, environmental, financial, information technology and 
cybersecurity.
One area addressed through our risk program is the physical impacts of climate 
change. As Michigan’s most far-reaching energy provider, Consumers Energy is 
especially focused on climate-change resiliency and has a cross-functional team 
to discuss these potential impacts on our assets and how to address those issues 
in a cost-effective manner.
Internal and external data sources are leveraged as input into our long-term 
strategic planning. The information is used to assess our strategic choices and 
underlying assumptions. 
The data is analyzed and synthesized into an update on trends and new 
opportunities that are critical to our current and future business. The data 
influences multiple areas of our strategy including distributed energy resources, 
wholesale markets, customer energy usage trends and climate policy. 
Stakeholder Engagement 
We spend significant time and effort listening to our customers, the public and 
key stakeholders during our long-term planning processes. Our integrated 
resource plans and environmental and sustainability strategies consider people, 
the planet and prosperity. 
In 2017 and 2018, for example, we engaged a variety of stakeholders in developing 
our Clean Energy Breakthrough Goals and our Integrated Resource Plan 
(IRP) filing. We continued and expanded on these efforts in 2020 during the 
development of our 2021 IRP, which refreshes the current Clean Energy Plan.
With the safety of our customers and co-workers uppermost in our mind during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, we hosted four virtual outreach events that were 
free and open to the public. Each virtual event contained information on a key 
element of our Clean Energy Plan and allowed participants to ask questions and 
receive responses from the company’s subject matter experts. 
We also developed a comment box on our website so customers could comment 
on our current plan and provide feedback toward the development of the 2021 
IRP. Additionally, we hosted three technical workshops for key stakeholder 
groups during the IRP planning process to collect feedback and receive 
suggestions about our goals and objectives. 
Our ongoing outreach program maintains communication with our 
shareholders. We value these discussions, and the board considers feedback when 
evaluating corporate governance issues. Management regularly participates in 
shareholder and industry conferences to discuss performance and ESG topics. 
Shareholders, co-workers and third parties may contact the board with any 
inquiry or issue using the methods described on our website . The board will 
respond as appropriate.Taking on Trash
We’re working hard to reduce the 
amount of waste we send to landfills. 
Since 2017, we’ve achieved a 54%  
drop by:
• Installing recycling and composting 
collection centers throughout the 
company. 
• Recycling utility poles and rubber 
protective equipment used by 
lineworkers. 
• Conserving and recycling soil and 
construction materials on projects 
that require clearing and digging. 
 
• Engaging co-workers to work in our 
Green Teams, which are employee 
groups devoted to caring for the 
environment at and near their work 
locations. 
• Fighting phragmites, an invasive 
species that threatens the health of 
Michigan’s coastal wetlands. We’re 
using innovative land-management 
tactics to keep the tall, harmful 
plant out of landfills once it’s safely 
removed. 
+ Learn More Here
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 17
Political Activity
We understand that policymakers’ decisions directly impact our business. That’s 
why our goal is to interact regularly with federal, state and local government officials, 
policymakers and stakeholder groups in a constructive and transparent manner. 
We focus political activity on critical company and energy industry issues including:
• Meeting Michigan’s energy needs. 
• Helping the state’s communities thrive.
• Providing safe, reliable, affordable and  
increasingly clean energy-related services.
Corporate Political Contributions 
Federal and state campaign finance laws prohibit us from making direct 
contributions to candidates and national and state political parties for general 
campaign purposes. We do contribute to grassroots activities, issue advocacy, voter 
registration, state and local ballot question committees and other activities consistent 
with federal and state law. 
All corporate political contributions come from our company’s general funds and are 
not reflected in customer rates. We also strive to ensure our positions and goals are 
consistent with the organizations receiving contributions. If conflicts exist, we base 
our involvement and support on areas of mutual agreement and offer opportunities to 
voice our opinions and hear and understand other perspectives. 
Our board oversees our political engagement policies, programs and practices. 
Governmental Affairs initiates a contribution recommendation, which is then 
reviewed by the legal department before being sent for review and approval by the 
general counsel, the senior vice president of governmental, regulatory and public 
affairs and the vice president and corporate secretary.
The board’s Governance, Sustainability and Public Responsibility Committee 
helps advise the board about our political engagement. As recommended by the 
Governance, Sustainability and Public Responsibility Committee: 
• Any contribution $2,500 or less requires no further approval. 
• Contributions of $2,500 to $10,000 require 
our president and CEO’s approval.
• Contribution requests more than $10,000 require approval 
from our president and CEO and the board. 
Consumers Energy, Michigan Attorney General  
launch Winter Bill Assistance Campaign
In March 2021, we launched a public 
campaign alongside Michigan Attorney 
General Dana Nessel to ensure Michigan 
residents take advantage of tens of millions in 
federal, state and local dollars that will help 
households and small businesses pay winter 
heating bills.
Nessel and Consumers Energy teamed 
up after two weeks of especially cold 
temperatures in February caused furnaces to 
run more than usual.“Consumers Energy is working right now 
to help many Michiganders who could use 
support due to the twin challenges of the 
pandemic and the cold snap,” said Lauren 
Youngdahl Snyder, Consumers Energy’s vice 
president of customer experience. “The new 
federal stimulus and other sources are making 
tens of millions of dollars available to help 
with energy bills.”
+ Read More Here
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 18
All political expenditures for the prior year are reported to the board on an annual 
basis, as are proposed contributions for the present year. Additional ad hoc requests 
follow the same procedures. 
Starting in 2021, CMS Energy began enhanced disclosure of political contributions. 
This includes posting additional content on the CMS Energy website , including: 
• Expenditures made to influence the outcome of ballot initiatives.
• Direct corporate contributions to an entity organized 
under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code 
when annual contributions exceed $25,000.
• Direct corporate contributions to an entity organized 
under Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code 
when annual contributions exceed $25,000.
• Non-deductible portion of trade association and other organization 
dues when annual mandatory membership dues exceed $25,000.
Lobbying and Trade Associations
CMS Energy belongs to industry, trade and business associations representing the 
energy and utility industry and the business community. We make reasonable efforts 
to track and report payments to trade associations, chambers of commerce and 
other tax-exempt organizations that may be used for political purposes that would 
not be deductible as defined under Section 162(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code. 
We disclose payments when they exceed $25,000 and when trade associations use a 
portion of those payments for federal lobbying activities.
As required by federal law, we disclose funds supporting federal lobbying activities of 
national trade associations on our quarterly lobbying filing with the U.S. Congress.
Political Action Committee
We maintain a separate fund and corporate political action committee (PAC), which 
is registered with the Federal Election Commission. We also maintain a state PAC 
registered in Michigan. 
Our PAC, Employees for Better Government (“EBG”), is nonprofit, nonpartisan and 
governed by an employee-run steering committee independent of our officers and 
board. Participation is voluntary and gives co-workers a voice in the political process. 
Elected members of EBG’s Steering Committee review contribution requests and 
allocate qualified employee contributions to political and campaign committees and 
to specific candidate campaigns. Criteria may include:
• Representation of a state or district where the company 
has a facility or large concentration of co-workers.
• Voting record or announced positions on 
issues important to the company.
• Demonstrated leadership on key committees 
of importance to our business.
• Current leadership or potential for legislative leadership.
All political contributions accepted or made by our federal or state PACs are reported, 
consistent with applicable requirements, to the federal or state election commission.Committed to a 
Cleaner Future
Lindsey Johnson is helping minimize 
our environmental footprint as we 
modernize Michigan’s natural gas 
system.
Replacing hundreds of miles of 
major transmission pipelines is part 
of our strategy to make Michigan’s 
natural gas system even more safe, 
reliable, affordable and clean.
Johnson, an environmental 
engineer, ensures we meet — 
and exceed — environmental 
responsibilities on the massive 
pipeline construction projects to 
safeguard natural resources and 
wildlife and enhance local habitat. 
From securing permits to planting 
pollinators and rescuing amphibians, 
Johnson is on the frontlines of our 
fight to protect the planet.
Her passion comes from one place: 
Her sons, Parker, 6, and Carson, 2.
“That’s the whole reason I do it,” 
said Johnson, who has worked 15 
years at Consumers Energy. “We want 
to improve the environment, protect 
the land we live and work and play on, 
for our kids and grandkids. I hope I’m 
making an impression on them that 
will last a lifetime.”
+ Read More Here
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 19
Standards for Co-workers
We’re committed to help communities succeed — not just in energy, but also personal 
and corporate commitments. Each day, co-workers offer their time, talents and dollars to 
support the places where they live and work.
We’re proud of our co-workers’ efforts to help make the Michigan communities we serve 
great places to live, work and play. We encourage our co-workers to participate in a wide 
range of civic activities, including the political process. Co-workers must comply with 
all applicable legal, ethical and company requirements, including those set forth in the 
Honest Leadership and Open Government Act (HLOGA) of 2007. Generally, co-workers 
are prohibited from engaging during normal business hours and using company resources.
Co-workers may campaign for public office or support others seeking office on non-work 
time and may secure reasonable time off to do so. The following conditions apply:
• Co-workers must obtain written approval from their supervisor 
before seeking election or appointment to a public office.
• If elected or appointed, co-workers must seek approval from their 
supervisor for reasonable time off without pay to fulfill those duties.
• To avoid conflicts of interest, co-workers who are elected or 
appointed to public office must excuse themselves from actions 
or decisions on issues that could impact the company.
Other Resources
We provide extensive public reporting in disclosures about ESG and sustainability, 
including our environmental stewardship and long-term strategy. We address these 
matters in Securities and Exchange Commission, Environmental Protection Agency 
and other regulatory agency filings, and by voluntary reporting efforts such as our 
CDP Climate Report , CDP Water Report  and Annual Waste Report . CMS Energy also 
published a Climate Assessment Report in November 2018, which will be updated by 2022.Planet Awards Support 
Michigan projects
The Consumers Energy Foundation 
celebrated Earth Month 2021 by providing 
$500,000 in Planet Award grants to four 
projects that will help protect and restore 
Michigan’s land, water and air. 
Gaylord:  Huron Pines Resource 
Conservation & Development Council 
($200,000)
The Protect Wild Places project will 
restore 5,000 acres of habitats and 
recreational lands as well as 150 miles 
of waterways and Great Lakes shoreline 
across 17 counties. The work will be done 
through online and in-person events and 
conservation efforts in partnership with 
community leaders, schools, organizations 
and residents.
Mancelona: Au Sable Institute ($125,000)
The Good Things Grow Here project will 
engage local schools and mobilize 3,600 
K-12 students to complete 30 habitat 
restoration projects in Northern Michigan 
by 2024. Each restoration project will 
install 1,000 native plants, for a total of 
30,000 native plants installed over the 
next three years in Northern Michigan.
Kalamazoo:  Southwest Michigan  
Land Conservancy ($100,000) 
The project will restore rich habitat on 
the 140-acre Armintrout-Milbocker 
Nature Preserve through invasive species 
management, creation of a holistic 
management plan, and community 
access. The project will also lower pollution 
levels and increase filtration of waters 
flowing into the Kalamazoo River.
Bay City:  Bay Area Community  
Foundation ($75,000) 
Funding will support the Lake Huron 
Forever Initiative’s nature-based solutions 
and projects, community assessments, 
and training programs to advance 
water quality protection and healthy, 
sustainable communities on Lake Huron.
Recent Recognition for Our  
Commitment to ESG and Sustainability
• 2021 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year
• Forbes® Magazine award for America’s Best Large Employer in 2021
• Forbes® Magazine America’s Best Employers for Women in 2020 and 
2021 and #1 utility company in Michigan for diversity in 2020 and 2021
• BEST Winner: Association for Talent Development in 2020 and 2021
• Newsweek America’s Most Responsible Companies Award for 2021
• Ranked Top Quartile by EEI Utility Standards and Safety Performance
• Top 50 global ranking in Military Times Best for Vets: Employers for 2020
• Certified Gold-Level Veteran Friendly Employer by the 
Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency (MVAA)
• Named one of Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies in 2020SECTION 2
By the Numbers2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 202021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 21
   Baseline   
CONSUMERS ENERGY PORTFOLIO  2005  2018  2019  2020  TREND
Owned Nameplate Generation Capacity at end of year (MW)
Coal   3,015  2,043  2,043  2,043  n
Natural Gas 1,285 2,487 2,318 2,318 n
Nuclear  812 N/A N/A N/A n
Petroleum 738 720 701 701 n
Ludington Pumped Storage Plant1 1,009  1,125  1,154  1,154  n
Total Renewable Energy Resources 132 392 468 618 n
 Biomass/Biogas N/A N/A N/A N/A n
 Geothermal N/A N/A N/A N/A n
 Hydroelectric 132 132 132 132 n
 Solar N/A 4 4 4 n
 Wind N/A 256 332 482 n
Other  N/A 1 1 1 n
Owned Net Generation for the data year (MWh) 
Coal   19,711,000  9,804,000  9,776,000  7,960,000  n
Natural Gas  356,000  5,272,000  6,289,000  5,883,000  n
Nuclear  6,636,000 N/A N/A N/A n
Petroleum  225,000  5,000  5,000  6,000  n
Ludington Pumped Storage Plant1,2 -516,000  -325,000  -308,000  -371,000  n
Total Renewable Energy Resources 387,000 1,187,000 1,258,000 1,505,000 n
 Biomass/Biogas N/A N/A N/A N/A n
 Geothermal N/A N/A N/A N/A n
 Hydroelectric  387,000  445,000  512,000  482,000  n
 Solar  N/A 6,000  5,000  6,000  n
 Wind  N/A 736,000  741,000  1,017,000  n
Other  N/A N/A N/A N/A n
Total Owned Net Generation (MWh)  26,799,000  15,943,000  17,020,000  14,983,000  n
Purchased Net Generation for the data year (MWh) 
Coal   482,000  511,000  462,000  513,000  n
Natural Gas  7,061,000  6,712,000  6,812,000  7,346,000  n
Nuclear   N/A 6,749,000  6,946,000  6,898,000  n
Petroleum N/A N/A N/A N/A n
Total Renewable Energy Resources 1,236,000 2,379,000 2,387,000 2,225,000 n
 Biomass/Biogas  1,200,000  1,237,000  1,164,000  994,000  n
 Geothermal N/A N/A N/A N/A n
 Hydroelectric  34,000  79,000  60,000  63,000  n
 Solar N/A 6,700 7,400 8,000 n
 Wind  2,600  1,006,000  1,156,000  1,160,000  n
Other   1,991,000  4,953,000  2,059,000  2,655,000  n
Total Purchased Net Generation (MWh) 10,770,000 21,304,000 18,666,000 19,637,000 n
Investing in the Future:  
Capital Expenditures, Energy Efficiency (EE), and Smart Meters
Total Annual Capital Expenditures (nominal dollars)  $593,000,000   $1,975,000,000   $2,298,000,000  $2,339,600,000  n
Incremental Annual Electricity Savings from EE Measures (MWh) N/A 586,784 566,183 642,124 n
Incremental Annual Investment in Electric EE Programs (nominal dollars) N/A  $117,800,000  $115,987,120 $139,635,527 n
Percent of Total Electric Customers with Smart Meters (at end of year) N/A 99% 99% 99% n
Retail Electric Customer Count
Commercial  214,025 219,869 221,892 221,570 n
Industrial  8,595 1,312 1,329 1,348 n
Residential  1,565,601  1,603,125  1,611,320   1,630,424  nTREND KEY:    n Not Rated   n No Change   n Better   n Worse
1. Our Pumped Storage Plant was originally included within the Hydroelectric category; however, it has been itemized separately.
2.  This figure represents Consumers’ share of net pumped-storage generation. The pumped-storage facility consumes electricity to pump water during off-peak hours for storage to generate electricity later during peak-demand hours.Parent Company: CMS Energy Corporation
Operating Company(s): Consumers Energy Compan y
Business Type(s): Vertically Integrated
State(s) of Operation: Michigan
State(s) with RPS Programs: MichiganRegulatory Environment: Regulated
Report Date: October 1, 2021
CMS Energy Website: CMSEnergy.com
Consumers Energy Website: ConsumersEnergy.com
The following quantitative information is Consumers Energy data only.  
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 22
   Baseline   
CONSUMERS ENERGY EMISSIONS  2005  2018  2019  2020  TREND
GHG Emissions: Carbon Dioxide (CO2) and Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)1
Owned Generation
 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 
  Total Owned Generation CO2 Emissions (Metric Tons (MT)) 20,219,000  12,682,000   12,604,000   10,888,000  n
  Total Owned Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  0.754  0.795   0.741   0.727  n
 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 
  Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) N/A  12,743,000   12,659,000   10,934,000  n
  Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  0.799   0.744   0.730  n
 Biogenic Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 0 0   0   0  n
Purchased Power 
 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 
  Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT)  4,999,000   6,373,000   5,121,000  5,221,000  n
  Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  0.464  0.299   0.274  0.266 n
 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 
  Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) N/A  6,419,000   5,150,000  5,257,000 n
  Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  0.301   0.276  0.268 n
 Biogenic Carbon Dioxide (CO2) (MT) N/A N/A N/A 745,000 n
Owned Generation + Purchased Power
 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 
  Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT) 25,218,000  19,055,000   17,725,000   16,109,000  n
  Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  0.671  0.512   0.497   0.465  n
  Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (lbs/Net MWh)  1,480 1,128 1,095 1,026 n
 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 
  Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) N/A  19,162,000   17,809,000   16,191,000  n
  Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  0.514   0.499   0.468  n
  Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (lbs/Net MWh)  N/A  1,134   1,100   1,031  n
Non-Generation CO2e Emissions
 Fugitive CO2e emissions of sulfur hexafluoride (MT)  N/A  2,100   2,533   819  n
 Fugitive CO2e emissions from natural gas distribution (MT) See Natural Gas Business Sustainability Metrics
Electric & Gas Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 
  Scope 1 CO2e emissions (MT) N/A 13,165,000 13,509,000 11,387,000 n
  Scope 2 CO2e market-based emissions (MT)2 N/A 424,000 279,500 291,600 n
  Scope 3 CO2e emissions (MT)3 N/A 22,780,000  20,574,000  18,675,000  n
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), Mercury (Hg)
Generation basis for calculation: Electric Generation
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) 
 Total NOx Emissions (MT) 28,400 3,900 4,100 3,395 n
 Total NOx Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh) 1.06E-03 2.44E-04 2.41E-04 2.27E-04 n
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2)
 Total SO2 Emissions (MT) 83,600 5,200 5,700 4,149 n
 Total SO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh) 3.12E-03 3.29E-04 3.35E-04 2.77E-04 n
Mercury (Hg) 
 Total Hg Emissions (kg) N/A 26 33 31 n
 Total Hg Emissions Intensity (kg/Net MWh) N/A 1.64E-06 1.94E-06 2.07E-06 nTREND KEY:    n Not Rated   n No Change   n Better   n Worse
1. Data reported based on equity-ownership.
2. The Scope 2 emissions were calculated based on the market-based emissions methodology.
3.  Consumers Energy reports known emissions associated with four Scope 3 categories, including emissions associated with purchased power (i.e., fuel-and-energy related activities not included in scope 1 or 2), 
combustion of natural gas sold (i.e., use of sold products), business travel and employee commuting. Emissions data reported for CMS Enterprises’ is excluded with the exception of business travel.2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 23
   Baseline   
CONSUMERS ENERGY RESOURCES  2005  2018  2019  2020  TREND
Human Resources
 Total Number of Employees 8,114 8,121 8,253 8,193 n
 Total Number on Board of Directors/Trustees 12 10 12 11 n
  Total Women on Board of Directors/Trustees 1 4 5 4 n
  Total Minorities on Board of Directors/Trustees 1 2 3 3 n
 Total Female Employees  N/A 2,304 2,342 2,275 n
  Percent Female Employees  N/A 28% 28% 28% n
 Total Minority Employees N/A 1,162 1,180 1,166 n
  Percent Minority  N/A 14% 14% 14% n
 Total Veteran Employees N/A 699 825 860 n
  Percent Veteran Employees N/A 9% 10% 11% n
 Total Individuals with Disabilities N/A 372 397 394 n
  Percent Individuals with Disabilities N/A 5% 5% 5% n
 Total Females in Senior Leadership N/A 8 9 9 n
  Percent Females in Senior Leadership N/A 30% 32% 32% n
 Total Minorities in Senior Leadership N/A 7 6 7 n
  Percent Minorities in Senior Leadership  N/A 26% 21% 25% n
 Total Females in Management N/A 125 132 151 n
  Percent Females in Management N/A 30% 31% 33% n
 Total Minorities in Management N/A 51 53 59 n
  Percent Minorities in Management N/A 12% 12% 13% n
Employee Safety Metrics
 Recordable Incident Rate N/A 7.01 1.21 1.23 n
 Lost-time Case Rate  N/A 2.00 0.34 0.50 n
 Days Away, Restricted, and Transfer (DART) Rate N/A 3.22 0.75 0.84 n
 Work-related Fatalities N/A 1.00 1.00 0.00 n
Fresh Water Resources
 Water Withdrawals - Consumptive (Billions of Liters/Net MWh) N/A 3.19E-07 3.74E-07 3.36E-07 n
 Water Withdrawals - Non-Consumptive (Billions of Liters/Net MWh) N/A 7.74E-05 6.88E-05 8.22E-05 n
Waste Products
 Amount of Hazardous Waste Manifested for Disposal (tons) N/A 23.9 23.7 25.07 n
 Percent of Coal Combustion Products Beneficially Used N/A 13% 15% 8% n
Additional Metrics (Optional)
 Lead (lbs) N/A 49 47 32 n
 Total Non-Methane Organic Compounds (short tons) 330 204 200 172 n
 Utility Specific Residual Mix Emissions Rate (CO2 lbs/MWh) N/A N/A 1098 1052 nTREND KEY:    n Not Rated   n No Change   n Better   n Worse
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 24
Parent Company:  CMS Energy Corporation
Operating Company: CMS Enterprises
Business Type: Vertically Integrated
States of Operation:  Ohio, Michigan, North Carolina,  
Texas, Wisconsin
The following quantitative information is CMS Enterprises data only.  Regulatory Environment: Unregulated
Report Date: October 1, 2021
CMS Energy Website: CMSEnergy.com
CMS Enterprises Website: CMSenterprises.com  
   Baseline   
CMS ENTERPRISES ENERGY PORTFOLIO  2005  2018  2019  2020  TREND
Owned Nameplate Generation Capacity at end of year (MW)
Coal   N/A 35 35 35 n
Natural Gas N/A 1,008 995 1018 n
Nuclear  N/A 0 0 0 n
Petroleum N/A 0 0 0 n
Total Renewable Energy Resources N/A 195 196 464 n
 Biomass/Biogas N/A 64 64 64 n
 Geothermal N/A 0 0 0 n
 Hydroelectric N/A 0 0 0 n
 Solar N/A 27 27 27 n
 Wind N/A 105 105 373 n
Other  N/A 0 0 0 n
Owned Net Generation for the data year (MWh) 
Coal   N/A 253,000  226,000  255,000  n
Natural Gas N/A 4,985,000 5,555,000 5,216,000 n
Nuclear  N/A 0 0 0 n
Petroleum N/A 0 0 0 n
Total Renewable Energy Resources N/A 385,000 644,000 780,000 n
 Biomass/Biogas  N/A 277,000  292,000  193,000  n
 Geothermal N/A 0 0 0 n
 Hydroelectric N/A 0 0 0 n
 Solar   N/A 14,000  37,000  47,000  n
 Wind  N/A 94,000  314,000  540,000  n
Other  N/A 0 0 0 n
Purchased Net Generation for the data year (MWh) 
Coal   N/A 0 0 0 n
Natural Gas N/A 0 0 0 n
Nuclear  N/A 0 0 0 n
Petroleum N/A 0 0 0 n
Total Renewable Energy Resources  N/A 300,000  300,000  300,000  n
 Biomass/Biogas N/A 0 0 0 n
 Geothermal N/A 0 0 0 n
 Hydroelectric N/A 0 0 0 n
 Solar N/A 0 0 0 n
 Wind  N/A 300,000  300,000  300,000  n
Other  N/A 0 0 0 n
Investing in the Future:   
Capital Expenditures, Energy Efficiency (EE), and Smart Meters
 Total Annual Capital Expenditures (nominal dollars)  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A  n
 Incremental Annual Electricity Savings from EE Measures (MWh)  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A  n
 Incremental Annual Investment in Electric EE Programs (nominal dollars)  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A  n
 Percent of Total Electric Customers with Smart Meters (at end of year)  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A  n
Retail Electric Customer Count (at end of year)
Commercial   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A  n
Industrial   N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A  n
Residential  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A  nTREND KEY:    n Not Rated   n No Change   n Better   n Worse
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 25
   Baseline   
CMS ENTERPRISES EMISSIONS  2005  2018  2019  2020  TREND
GHG Emissions: Carbon Dioxide (CO2) and Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)1 
Owned Generation
 Carbon Dioxide (CO2)
  Total Owned Generation CO2 Emissions (MT) N/A  3,816,135  3,817,939 3,427,886 n
  Total Owned Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  0.679   0.594   0.548  n
 Biogenic CO2 (MT) N/A  552,537   580,732   382,744  n
 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)
  Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) N/A  3,815,973   3,851,101   3,437,818  n
  Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  0.679   0.599   0.550  n
 Biogenic CO2e N/A  560,091   588,638   387,870  n
Purchased Power
 Carbon Dioxide (CO2)
  Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT) N/A 0 0 0 n
  Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  N/A   N/A   N/A  n
 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)
  Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) N/A 0 0 0 n
  Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  N/A   N/A   N/A  n
Owned Generation + Purchased Power
 Carbon Dioxide (CO2)
  Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT) N/A  3,816,135  3,817,939 3,427,886 n
  Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  0.698   0.606   0.523  n
 Biogenic CO2 (mt) N/A  552,537   580,732   382,744  n
 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)
  Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) N/A  3,824,412   3,844,791   3,437,818 n
  Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  0.699   0.610   0.525  n
 Biogenic CO2e N/A  560,091   588,638   387,870  n
Non-Generation CO2e Emissions
 Fugitive CO2e emissions of sulfur hexafluoride (MT)  N/A  N/A   N/A   N/A  n
 Fugitive CO2e emissions from natural gas distribution (MT)  N/A  N/A   N/A   N/A  n
Electric & Gas Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 
  Scope 1 CO2e emissions (MT)2 N/A 3,825,389  3,845,830  3,447,385  n
  Scope 2 CO2e emissions (MT)3 N/A 1,834 1,291 2,239 n
  Scope 3 CO2e emissions (MT)4 N/A N/A N/A       1,200 n
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), Mercury (Hg)
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx)
 Total NOx Emissions (MT) N/A 1,355 1,464 1,432 n
 Total NOx Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh) N/A 2.41E-04 2.28E-04 2.19E-04 n
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) 
 Total SO2 Emissions (MT) N/A 867 862 823 n
 Total SO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh) N/A 1.54E-04 1.34E-04 1.26E-04 n
Mercury (Hg) 
Total Hg Emissions (kg) N/A 3.7 4.5 3.6 n
Total Hg Emissions Intensity (kg/Net MWh) N/A 6.52E-07 7.02E-07 5.56E-07 nTREND KEY:    n Not Rated   n No Change   n Better   n Worse
1. Data reported based on equity-owner.
2. Biogenic Emissions are not included in Scope 1.
3. The Scope 2 emissions were calculated based on the market-based emissions methodology. 
4. CMS Enterprises reports known emissions associated with one Scope 3 category, waste generated in operations. Emissions data for business travel is included with Consumers Energy data.2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 26
   Baseline   
CMS ENTERPRISES RESOURCES  2005  2018  2019  2020  TREND 
Human Resources
 Total Number of Employees N/A 178 181 186 n
 Total Female Employees  N/A 26 23 22 n
  Percent Female Employees  N/A 15% 13% 12% n
 Total Minority Employees N/A 13 16 18 n
  Percent Minority  N/A 7% 9% 10% n
 Total Veteran Employees N/A 12 14 18 n
  Percent Veteran Employees N/A 7% 8% 10% n
 Total Individuals with Disabilities N/A 3 2 2 n
  Percent Individuals with Disabilities N/A 2% 1% 1% n
 Total Females in Management N/A 1 1 1 n
  Percent Females in Management N/A 5% 4% 5% n
 Total Minorities in Management N/A 2 3 3 n
  Percent Minorities in Management N/A 10% 13% 14% n
Employee Safety Metrics
 Recordable Incident Rate 7.01 1.21 1.23 1.22 n
 Lost-time Case Rate  2.00 0.34 0.50 0.53 n
 Days Away, Restricted, and Transfer (DART) Rate 3.22 0.75 0.84 0.89 n
 Work-related Fatalities 1 1 0 0 n
Fresh Water Resources
Water Withdrawals - Consumptive (Billions of Liters/Net MWh) N/A 3.33E-07 3.67E-07 3.23E-07 n
Water Withdrawals - Non-Consumptive (Billions of Liters/Net MWh) N/A 4.35E-07 4.56E-07 4.09E-07 n
Waste Products
Amount of Hazardous Waste Manifested for Disposal (tons) N/A 0 0 0 n
Percent of Coal Combustion Products Beneficially Used N/A 0% 0% 0% n
TREND KEY:    n Not Rated   n No Change   n Better   n Worse2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 27
Natural Gas Business
Sustainability MetricsParent Company: CMS Energy
Operating Company(s): Consumers Energy Company
Business Type(s): Vertically Integrated
State(s) of Operation: Michigan
Regulatory Environment: Regulated
Report Date: October 1, 2021
       
CONSUMERS ENERGY NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION    2019  2020  TREND
Methane Emissions And Mitigation From Distribution Mains
 Number of Gas Distribution Customers   1,782,031 1,797,391 n
 Distribution Mains in Service
  Plastic (miles)     14,734  14,912 n
  Cathodically Protected Steel - Bare & Coated (miles)    12,387  12,324 n
  Unprotected Steel - Bare & Coated (miles)   456  466 n
  Cast Iron / Wrought Iron - without upgrades (miles)   382  364 n
  Remaining Miles of Distribution Mains (# years to complete)
  
  
 Unprotected Steel (Bare & Coated) (# years to complete)   17  9 n 
 Cast Iron / Wrought Iron (# years to complete)   17 9 n 
Distribution CO2e Fugitive Emissions 
 CO2e Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas Distribution Operations (metric tons)   226,912  227,882 n
 CH4 Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas Distribution Operations (metric tons)   9,076   9,115 n
 CH4 Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas Distribution Operations (MMSCF/year)   473  475 n
 Annual Natural Gas Throughput from Gas Distribution Operations in thousands of standard cubic feet (Mscf/year)  387,943,984  357,857,272 n
 Annual Methane Gas Throughput from Gas Distribution Operations in millions of standard cubic feet (MMscf/year)  368,547  339,964 n
 Fugitive Methane Emissions Rate (Percent MMscf of Methane Emissions per MMscf of Methane Throughput)  0.128% 0.140% n
CONSUMERS ENERGY NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION AND STORAGE
Onshore Natural Gas Transmission Compression Methane Emissions
 Data for Subpart W-Only Sources
Pneumatic Device Venting (metric tons/year)   0.1 0.1 n
Blowdown Vent Stacks (metric tons/year)   383 74.5 n
Transmission Storage Tanks (metric tons/year)   0 1 n
Flare Stack Emissions (metric tons/year)   0 0 n
Centrifugal Compressor Venting (metric tons/year)   21 11 n
Reciprocating Compressor Venting (metric tons/year)   270 380 n
Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and meters  (metric tons/year)  51 71 n
Other Leaks (metric tons/year)   0 0 n
Total Transmission Compression Methane Emissions (metric tons/year)    726 537 n
Total Transmission Compression Methane Emissions (CO2e/year)    18,142  13,428  n
Total Transmission Compression Methane Emissions (MSCF/year)    37,797  27,974  nOur Enhanced Infrastructure Replacement Program began in 2012 and is scheduled to be completed in 2030. TREND KEY:    n Not Rated   n No Change   n Better   n Worse
2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 28
      
CONSUMERS ENERGY NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION AND STORAGE  2019  2020  TREND
Underground Natural Gas Storage Methane Emissions
 Below Subpart W reporting threshold
Pneumatic Device Venting (metric tons/year)   N/A N/A n
Flare Stack Emissions (metric tons/year)   N/A N/A n
Centrifugal Compressor Venting (metric tons/year)   N/A N/A n
Reciprocating Compressor Venting (metric tons/year)   N/A N/A n
Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and meters  (metric tons/year)  N/A N/A n
Other Equipment Leaks (metric tons/year)   N/A N/A n
Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open-ended lines, and pressure relief valves associated with storage wellheads (metric tons/year) N/A N/A n
Other equipment leaks from components associated with storage wellheads (metric tons/year)   N/A N/A n
Total Storage Methane Emissions (metric tons/year)   N/A N/A n
Total Storage Methane Emissions (CO2e/year)   N/A N/A n
Total Storage Methane Emissions (MSCF/year)   N/A N/A n
Onshore Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline Blowdowns
 Below Subpart W reporting threshold
Transmission Pipeline Blowdown Vent Stacks (metric tons/year)   N/A N/A n
Transmission Pipeline Blowdown Vent Stacks (CO2e/year)   N/A N/A n
Transmission Pipeline Blowdown Vent Stacks (MSCF/year)   N/A N/A n
Other Non-Sub W Emissions Data
Total Methane Emissions from additional sources not recognized by 40 CFR 98 Subpart W (metric tons/year)  N/A N/A n
Total Methane Emissions from additional sources not recognized by 40 CFR 98 Subpart W (CO2e/year)   N/A N/A n
Total Methane Emissions from additional sources not recognized by 40 CFR 98 Subpart W (MSCF/year)   N/A N/A n
Summary and Metrics
Total Transmission and Storage Methane Emissions (MMSCF/year)   38 28 n
Annual Natural Gas Throughput from Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (MSCF/year)   242,903,533 209,910,872 n
Annual Methane Gas Throughput from Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (MMSCF/year)   230,758 199,415 n
Methane Emissions Intensity Metric (Percent MMscf of Methane Emissions per MMscf of Methane Throughput)   0.016%  0.014%  n
TREND KEY:    n Not Rated   n No Change   n Better   n WorseThis report contains “forward-looking statements” which may cause our results to differ materially. All forward-
looking statements should be considered in the context of the risk and other factors detailed from time to time in 
CMS Energy’s and Consumers Energy’s Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings. Forward-looking 
statements should be read in conjunction with “FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION” and “RISK 
FACTORS” sections of our most recent Form 10-K and as updated in other reports we file with the SEC, which 
can be found on our Regulatory Filings page. The information in this report may apply standards of materiality 
that are different than standards applied to other investors or required to be disclosed in SEC filings. CMS Energy 
and Consumers Energy have no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements regardless of whether 
new information, future events, or any other factors affect the information contained in the statements.2021 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report | CMS Energy and Consumers Energy | 29