SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018A CMS ENERGY COMPANYCONSUMERSENERGY.COM  •  CMSENERGY.COM
Consumers Energy’s community solar power plant 
at Grand Valley State University in Allendale, Mich. CONTENTS
 1 •   A MESSAGE FROM PATTI
 6 •   LOOKING TO THE FUTURE
 10 •   PEOPLE
 22 •   PLANET
 32 •   PROSPERITY
Cross Winds® Energy Park in Tuscola County, Mich. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 1
Patricia K. Poppe
President and Chief Executive Officer
CMS Energy and Consumers EnergyA Message 
from Patti EVERY DAY,  Consumers 
Energy employees report to 
work with a single purpose – World Class Performance 
Delivering Hometown Service. We are inspired by our calling to provide the energy that our friends and neighbors depend upon to warm their homes and power their businesses. Whether we are investing in renewable energy, replacing a natural gas line, connecting a new business or answering customer calls, we fulfill our jobs with a commitment to quality and a focus on our customers.
As Michigan’s largest utility, we’re uniquely 
positioned to be a driving force for good. We care for our customers, because they’re our friends, families and neighbors. We invest in the communities we serve, because we live here too. And we take actions to preserve and protect our natural resources, because we enjoy Michigan’s beauty just as much as you.At Consumers Energy, we believe a company can serve more than the bottom line. We operate with a triple bottom line – measuring our success in the areas of People, Planet and Prosperity.
In fact, our recent decision to reduce 
carbon by 80 percent and eliminate the use of coal to generate electricity by 2040 is a direct result of this thinking.
With more than 130 years under our belt, 
we have a strong track record of success – but actions speak louder than words. I invite you to look inside for more of our story.“ As Michigan’s largest utility, 
we’re uniquely positioned to be a driving force for good.”
 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 3 2 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
Service Center Solar
Combination Service Territory Natural Gas Service Territory Electric Service TerritoryHydro
Russell Leadership Center Innovation Center Enhanced Infrastructure Replacement Program (EIRP) Training CenterPeaking Plant
Cross Winds®
Energy ParkLake Winds® Energy Park
WindSolar Gardens
Grand Valley StateUniversity
Solar Gardens
Western Michigan
UniversityBirch Run EIRP
Wixom EIRPBellevue EIRPSaginawCaro
AlmaFremont
Norton Shores Greenville North Kent
East KentGrand
RapidsFlint
LansingOwosso
Laingsburg
Hastings Hamilton
Jackson Battle Creek
Kalamazoo
BronsonAdrian
South MonroeGroveland Bad Axe  BenzoniaT raverse CityBoyne City
West BranchCadillac
Clare
Big Rapids
Bay CityMidlandLudington    
Howell
Macomb
Royal Oak
LivoniaOverisel
NorthvilleThetford
CampbellMuskegon River
White PigeonRayHuron
St. Clair
FreedomGaylordMackinac
City Straits
Natural Gas CompressorRogers
Hardy
CrotonTippyHodenpyl
Webber
AlleganAlcona
FooteCooke
Five
ChannelsLoudMio
Ludington Pumped Storage
Campbell
Zeeland
JacksonKarn
Electric GenerationCampbell
Marshall
Jackson
Headquarters
WHERE WE ARE
(From top to bottom, left to right) Electric lineworkers in Jackson, Mich. , Karn Generating Complex in Essexville, Mich. , Reviewing construction plans in  
Livonia, Mich. , Jackson Generating Station in Jackson, Mich. , Tippy Hydro in Wellston, Mich. , Customer Contact Center in Lansing, Mich. , Employees with their 
daughter in Brighton, Mich. , Cross Winds® Energy Park construction in Tuscola County, Mich. , Zeeland Generating Station in Zeeland, Mich. , Installing a new natural 
gas meter in Livonia, Mich. , Solar Gardens power plant – Grand Valley State University in Allendale, Mich. , St. Clair Natural Gas Compressor Station in Ira, Mich.EDUCATION
> $1.2 millionLOW INCOME
FAMILIES
$10 millionENVIRONMENT
nearly $900,000SOCIAL
WELFARE
> $2.8 millionCOMMUNITY,
CIVIC & CULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT
> $2.7 million
At   CMS ENERGY, we are COMMITTED to operating with 
a mindset of being MORE THAN. We believe we can stand 
for MORE THAN profits, regulatory compliance and basic service. With EVERY decision we make, we consider its IMPACT to PEOPLE, PLANET and PROSPERITY.
PEOPLEOUR 2017 RESULTS
PROSPERITY
MORE THAN 130 YEARS PROUDLY SERVING MICHIGAN
Ranking by Sustainalytics 2017 Renewable Energy Mix
Continued focus on replacing coal-fueled generation 
with cleaner energy sources
>$17 million  DONATED
to MICHIGAN NONPROFITSPROVIDING ELECTRICITY BEFORE
WERE
INVENTEDA/CAIR
CONDITIONINGVACUUMCLEANERS
(est. 1901) (est. 1902)MICROWAVEOVENS
(est. 1946)
PLANET+ MORE THAN 
4,500  
CONTRACTORS
HIGHEST
SUSTAINABILITYPERFORMANCE
among U.S. energy providersin the
NATION10%
100%WATER WIND SOLAR
TODAYIntroduced a new program to allow
Michigan businesses to match
BY 2040
9TH
by Forbesby Forbesof their energy use with renewable sources
– helping to meet their unique sustainability goals
*TOTAL NEW GROWTH IN MICHIGAN BASED ON PROJECTS IN THE 2017 CALENDAR YEAR.2,400* 2,400*
GREENEST
COMPANY in MichiganMICHIGAN’S
BEST  
LARGE
EMPLOYERMICHIGAN’S
BEST  
EMPLOYER FOR
DIVERSITYMILLION  
in ENERGY EFFICIENCY
REBATES & INCENTIVESfor Michigan homesand businessesNEW JOBS
IN MICHIGAN  NEARLY
7,500
EMPLOYEESConsumers Energy is theLARGEST COMBINATION UTILITYin Michigan, providing natural gas and/or electricity to 6.7 million Michigan residents.
According to
NewsweekMORE THAN
$1 BILLION
spent with Michigan 
BUSINESSES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 5 4 • CONSUMERS ENERGYLooking to
the Future
TAKING A STAND:  We believe climate 
change is happening, and know we can do 
our part to care for the planet by focusing on a clean and lean operating strategy. In the past, people thought it was necessary to choose between affordable and clean energy – but we know that’s not the case. As we look to the future, we remain committed to providing the safe, affordable, reliable and increasingly clean energy Michigan customers deserve. 
 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 9 8 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
WHETHER IT’S WATER  
rushing over our hydroelectric 
dams, the sun shining on a 
summer afternoon, or the wind blowing 
through the countryside, Consumers 
Energy has long relied on our state’s 
clean natural resources to power the communities, homes and businesses we 
serve. We’ve also taken actions to preserve 
and protect the environment we all cherish.
To date, we’ve reduced our carbon 
intensity by 38 percent, reduced our water use by 35 percent and avoided over 1 million cubic yards of landfill 
disposal. But we are not satisfied.
That’s why we spent months engaging 
with our employees, customers, local governments and other businesses to set 
a plan for continuous improvement. With the help of environmental experts, we set 
goals that demonstrate our commitment to 
leaving the planet better than we found it.
ENHANCE, RESTORE OR 
PROTECT 5,000 ACRES OF MICHIGAN LAND
By 2040: Reduce carbon emissions by 80 percent and eliminate the use of coal for electric generation.
SAVE 1 BILLION GALLONS OF WATEROVER FIVE YEARS:CLEAN ENERGY GOALS
That’s equivalent to 1,760 football fields  
covered in 10 feet of water!REDUCE WASTE TO LANDFILLS BY 35 PERCENT
That’s the size of Mackinac Island 
– times two!X2X1,760
X7 ,000
That’s about 14,000 tons –
or the weight of 7,000 average  
four door sedans!Leaving it Better
As WE REDUCE  dependence on coal to meet 
our clean energy goals, we’re ensuring our 
employees and the communities we serve 
experience a smooth transition.
In April 2016, we retired seven of our oldest coal-fired 
generating units at three sites:
•  The Cobb Plant near Muskegon.
•  The Whiting Plant near Monroe.
•  The Weadock Plant near Bay City.
Affectionately nicknamed the 
“Classic Seven,” the units played 
a significant role in our company’s history since the 1950s.
Before the plants closed, we 
worked with impacted employees to ensure they were able to retire or find new positions with the company. We also 
worked with the impacted communities to envision their 
economic futures and develop new ideas for success after the plant retirements.We’ve supported those efforts with grants from the 
Consumers Energy Foundation. In Luna Pier, a $200,000 
grant provided seed funding for a plan to help secure 
economic development opportunities in the county. In Muskegon, $230,000 in grant funds helped establish an 
initiative to showcase Muskegon’s favorable attributes to new and expanding food processors. 
Caring for these communities 
also means doing the right thing environmentally and meeting all 
local rules and regulations. We’re 
working to restore the three sites 
to “brownfield” status for potential 
redevelopment.
The preparation process includes 
abatement of any environmental hazards, dismantling and demolition of buildings on the site. We’re doing that work at the Weadock site, while Forsite Development, Inc. is handling 
the job at the Whiting and Cobb sites.
“ We also worked with the 
impacted communities to envision their economic futures and develop new ideas for success after the plant retirements.”
This goal is a decade ahead of the Paris Climate Accord.
We’re working to restore the sites to “brownfield” 
status for potential redevelopment. 
B.C. Cobb PlantMuskegon, Mich. 
J.R. Whiting Plantnear Monroe, Mich.People
Consumers Energy is committed to caring 
for the communities we serve. Whether it’s helping Flint students achieve their educational dreams with a $1 million grant or supporting a Habitat for Humanity volunteer project, we are leaving Michigan better than we found it. But we can’t do it alone. Our work is enabled by our employees. We’re continually recruiting and retaining the best talent to better serve our communities. We are proud to have a culture that supports rewarding careers and world class performance.
From cleaning up parks and planting trees to beautifying roadways, Consumers Energy employees volunteer thousands of hours each year to leave Michigan better than we found it.A Brighter Future for Flint’s 
Next Generation
In August 2017, the Consumers Energy 
Foundation awarded its largest grant in 
history when it gave $1 million to the Flint 
Promise, a locally driven initiative designed to offer Flint students more opportunities for 
post-secondary education. The scholarship is 
available to students graduating from a high 
school or GED program in Flint in 2018 or later 
and will cover up to 100 percent of tuition and book fees at Mott Community College and 
University of Michigan-Flint.  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 13 12 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY PEOPLE PEOPLE
THE  CONSUMERS ENERGY 
FOUNDATION  – our philanthropic 
funding arm – along with Consumers 
Energy, and employees and retirees, have been caring for 
Michigan communities for decades. Our grants have helped fight poverty, build parks and encourage kids to pursue 
critical job skills and higher education. We’ve helped restore 
endangered wildlife, protect fragile habitats and preserve cultural assets, like museums, zoos and libraries. Last year, 
Consumers Energy, its employees, retirees and Foundation 
contributed $17 million to Michigan’s nonprofits. 
But we also know it’s about giving more than just money. 
Our employees and retirees generously give their time and talents to improve the quality of life in the state we all love. 
They’re mentors for Michigan FIRST
® Robotics teams.
They build homes for families and habitats for endangered 
wildlife. They coach Little League and lead scout troops. 
They volunteer weekends to clean forests and river beds. They raise funds for schools and their communities. 
We support employees who give to their communities 
through two volunteer grant programs: 
•  Volunteer Investment Program – If an employee or retiree 
volunteers 45 hours or more for a qualifying nonprofit 
organization, the Consumers Energy Foundation will award a $100 to $500 grant to the nonprofit on behalf of the 
volunteer.
•  Caring for Community
™ Program – When five or more 
employees or retirees volunteer together for a qualifying nonprofit, the Consumers Energy Foundation will award a 
$250 grant on the group’s behalf.
Last year, the Foundation contributed $238,500 to support 
562 organizations on behalf of 684 employee and retiree volunteers through our grant programs.
GIVING
Here’s a 10 year look at contributions to 
nonprofit organizations from Consumers Energy, its employees, retirees and Foundation.$10
Million
$6.6
Million
2009$3
Million
2008 2012 2014$13.5
Million
2016 2015$17
Million
2017 2013 2011 2010
One shirt, two shirt … everywhere a blue shirt. 
Consumers Energy employees are proud to wear the company colors in the communities they serve. 
#CEVolunteers
Carolyn Bloodworth, director of corporate giving, 
addresses a crowd of volunteers before presenting a Michigan nonprofit with a grant check from the 
Consumers Energy Foundation.
Home is where the heart is as employees gather before 
participating in a Walk for Warmth in Jackson, Mich.
Employees participate in the 2017 Walk for Warmth in Jackson, Mich., to raise money for heating assistance.
An employee volunteer serves with a smile while staining a boardwalk in Mt. Pleasant, Mich.
“ We support employees who give 
to their communities through two volunteer grant programs.”
Patti Poppe, President and CEO, 
speaks to the media during the Flint Promise announcement. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 15 14 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY
SOMETIMES caring for our communities 
means crossing state lines, and when 
Hurricane Irma left a path of devastation 
across Florida and Georgia, our employees and 
contractors were ready to help their fellow utility 
peers. 
More than 350 employees and contractors 
traveled to Florida and Georgia to assess damage, repair wires and restore power. And while some 
of our employees were deployed for restoration efforts, many employees at home supported the 
cause as well.
While our crews were providing restoration 
support, the Consumers Energy Foundation donated $25,000 to the American Red Cross 
Disaster Relief Fund.
The Foundation matched full-time employee 
contributions to the fund for a total donation of $52,800.
In the past, out-of-state crews have assisted 
with our restoration efforts following major storms. Our employees and contractors were honored to return the service following Hurricane Irma.•  Rated #1 in Michigan and 62nd overall 
on Forbes’ list of America’s 500 Best 
Large Employers.
•  Recognized as a gold-level Veteran-
Friendly Employer by the Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency.
•  Ranked #3 in Michigan on the Military 
Times Best for Vets: Employers 2017 list.
•  Labeled the #1 company in Michigan and 
#1 utility in the country on Forbes’ list of America’s Best Employers for Diversity.
•  Named Company of the Year by Career 
Mastered for our commitment to women in leadership and diverse hiring.
•  Received a perfect score on the 
Corporate Equality Index for corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ workplace equality.
Consumers Energy joins hundreds 
of lineworkers in Florida.
350  
Consumers Energy
employees and contractors  restored power  
in GEORGIA and  
FLORIDA.130
22060,000 
energy industry employees  
restored power.After Irma
customers 
in /f_ive states lost power.7.8
million
Consumers
Energy
crews
worked
16
HOURS
each day.88˚The high temperature 
in Boca Raton, Fla.,on Friday, Sept. 15.
It felt like 97˚
12-15
work orders
completed per crew each day,each affecting hundreds of households.  
Many damaged utility poles were located 
in Florida residents’ backyards. 
PAYING IT FORWARD:  
Hurricane Irma Restoration
Crews assemble in Jackson, Mich., (top) before heading to Georgia and Florida (below) where they participate in a morning group stretching routine.PEOPLE PEOPLE
EARNING
RECOGNITION
Crews gather for a pre-job safety tailboard 
before departing Jackson, Mich. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 17 16 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY
A Hometown Inclusive  
of ALL
When the Jackson City Council debated in 
2017 whether to pass a Non-Discrimination 
Ordinance that protected people from 
discrimination on the basis of their sexual orientation and gender identity, a team of 
Consumers Energy employees stepped up to 
provide support, promote equality and ensure 
all voices were heard. We’re proud to share 
the ordinance passed, and our hometown is one step closer to becoming an inclusive 
place for all. 
Delivering 
Hometown Service
IN HIS 200,000 PLUS MILES of on-the-job 
travel, James Stratton has seen his share of 
accidents – but it was usually after they had 
happened. That all changed last October, when Stratton, 
a journeyman pipeline welder, was the first responder at 
an accident involving a mother and young child.
Headed to a work assignment, Stratton came upon 
an SUV on its side. A woman with visible scrapes on her face was standing by the road screaming that her 
daughter was stuck. 
He crawled into the vehicle, which was quickly filling 
with smoke, shut it off and located the child. Stratton was able to free her before climbing out of the ditch to reunite 
the little girl with her mother. Fortunately, no one was 
severely injured.
 Stratton credits his safety training at Consumers 
Energy as the reason he was able to stay calm. “We’re trained to pay attention to every little detail at work about our safety,” Stratton said.
Because of his efforts, Stratton is one of five 
employees to be nominated for an American Gas Association Meritorious Service Award.
Supporting Affordable 
Housing in Michigan
Consumers Energy, the Foundation and 
employees across the state supported 
Habitat for Humanity of Michigan through 
several ways in 2017:
•  The Consumers Energy Foundation 
contributed $200,000 to Habitat’s 
Neighborhood Revitalization Initiative. 
The effort aims to increase the number of 
families living in safe, decent, affordable housing, and develop relationships within 
communities.
•  Consumers Energy donated $100,000 
to Home Run for Habitat – an annual 
collaboration with Habitat for Humanity and 
the Detroit Tigers that challenges affiliates, donors and the community to give more to support Habitat’s local mission.
•  Our Helping Neighbors program has provided over $272,000 in energy efficiency incentives since 2013 to Habitat homes 
in Michigan, making home ownership 
more affordable. Upgrades include attic insulation, lighting and more.
•  More than 350 employees volunteered in company-sponsored Habitat projects across the state.
T otal Consumers Energy Employees
30.5% Female
14.5% Minority
We’re also focused on maintaining a diverse Board 
of Directors. Currently, 40% of our Board members and nearly 30% of our officers are women.
Additionally, CMS Energy ranked 3rd in the U.S. and 
6th in the world for gender and diversity in the Ernst & Young Women in Power and Utilities Index 2016.EMPLOYEE 
DIVERSITY
Employees volunteering in groups of five or more earn a $250 Caring 
for Community™ grant to support Michigan nonprofit groups. 
A diverse and inclusive workforce allows 
us to better serve our customers, and helps us understand their unique needs.
James Stratton, Consumers Energy journeyman pipeline welder.PEOPLE PEOPLE 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 19 18 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY
 
The Challenge to Give Back Safety 24/7
SAFETY IS THE FOUNDATION of everything we do 
at Consumers Energy. That is why we’re traveling 
the road to zero recordable injuries. In 2016, we had 
the best safety results of our Edison Electric Institute peer 
group with 73 Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
(OSHA) injuries. 
But we didn’t rest on past success, and we set the bar 
high and broke our record once again in 2017 with 65 injuries.
“2017 marked the third consecutive year of record breaking 
safety performance,” said Garret Miller, director of safety.
“We also reduced vehicle incidents by 27 percent in 2017 
compared to 2016 and achieved the 3rd fewest vehicle 
incidents among our peers.”
In addition to this great achievement, there were many operational achievements including:
•  Electric Operations 
achieved a 38 percent 
reduction in injuries from 2016. 
•  CMS Enterprises finished the year with zero injuries. 
•  We responded to 
Hurricane Irma with over 
15 crews and returned home without a single 
injury.•  Gas Operations achieved a 15 percent reduction in 
injuries from 2016. 
•  Meter Reading 
experienced a 132 day 
stretch with no injury. 
•  Generation Operations 
achieved a 25 percent 
reduction in injuries from 2016 and had a 181 day 
stretch with no injury. “We still have work to do to send everyone home safely every 
day, but we are heading in the right direction,” said Miller.
Multiple locations had zero injuries in 2017, including:  
• Alma 
• Battle Creek 
• Big Rapids • Clare • Campbell 
• Livonia
• Norton Shores• Traverse City•  Saginaw  
Trail 
Pipeline 
2009 2008355
2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2017 2014 20167367EMPLOYEE SAFETY
RECORDABLE  INCIDENTS
PEOPLE PEOPLE
All assignments in the field begin with a pre-job safety 
tailboard to identify hazards and define responsibilities.
A Consumers Energy lineworker helps ensure safe, reliable electric service.
Our annual Intern Challenge supports our giving culture. 
We offer paid college internships in various departments and locations that typically start in May and end in August.EACH YEAR,  interns and 
cooperative assistants are 
immersed in our culture of giving 
back to the communities we serve by participating in our annual Intern 
Challenge.
The program challenges intern 
groups to design, organize and participate in volunteer projects 
which will better their communities. At the end of the challenge, each team presents their volunteer 
project to peers and a panel of 
judges, who determine the winners.
In 2017, 124 interns gave their 
time to 26 nonprofit organizations across Michigan.
•  45 lbs. of invasive plants removed
•  100+ invasive saplings removed
• About 50 seniors reached• Over 500 children reached• 87 pairs of shoes donated
•  55 canned food items donated
• 10 bags of trash collected
•  90 families fed in 30 minutes
•  380 clothing items donated
Learn more about our intern 
program at  
ConsumersEnergy.com/intern.
“ We still have work to do to 
send everyone home safely 
every day, but we are heading 
in the right direction.”Supporting STEM and FIRST® Robotics
As MICHIGAN’S LARGEST ENERGY 
PROVIDER,  we are committed to diversity 
and hiring qualified candidates to support science, technology, engineering and math. The STEM skills we need to do our jobs at Consumers Energy are the same 
skills students learn in FIRST
® Robotics.
Our commitment is making a difference for students, 
our state and company. Today, even the smallest 
schools from rural areas and under-resourced schools from urban communities have a chance to participate.In 2017, The Consumers Energy Foundation 
contributed more than $425,000 to support STEM programs, including FIRST Robotics teams at elementary, middle school and high school levels across 
Michigan. With help from the Foundation, FIRST in 
Michigan has grown to 500 teams – the most school robotics teams of any state.
Learn how we’re supporting STEM with our Generation 
Genius Project at ConsumersEnergy.com/genius.
FIRST® in Michigan  
Robotics State Championship 
in Saginaw, Mich.Planet
We all share this planet and our great state. 
That’s why we’re determined to help improve Michigan’s air, land and water for generations to come. From embracing cleaner energy sources to reducing air emissions and conserving water, we’re creating a sustainable energy future for our state.
Croton Hydro, located on the Muskegon River, is one 
of 13 hydroelectric power plants we have in Michigan. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 25 24 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY
RENEWABLE ENERGY  is not new for 
Consumers Energy. In fact, our company 
was founded on clean energy by harnessing 
Michigan’s rushing rivers to generate 
hydroelectricity in the early 20th century.
One way we plan to reduce carbon emissions by 
80 percent is increasing the use of renewable energy sources and energy storage by up to 40 percent by 2040.
Today, about 10 percent of our electricity is from 
renewable sources such as wind, solar and hydroelectric power. That’s up from about 3 percent in 2005, and puts 
us on track to meet the state’s 15 percent renewable 
energy standard by 2021.
The boost in renewable energy – along with closure of 
aging coal-fired plants and the installation of pollution control equipment – has helped us reduce criteria air pollutants by about 90 percent.
We own and operate two wind farms: Lake Winds
® 
Energy Park in Mason County and Cross Winds® Energy 
Park in Tuscola County. We recently finished expansion 
efforts at Cross Winds II; it began operating in January 
2018. That means 19 new wind turbines are producing up to 44 megawatts of clean energy for our customers. 
Cross Winds III will add 33 turbines and even more 
clean energy to our portfolio, and is expected to begin commercial operation in January 2020. 
In addition to wind, we’ve listened to our 
customers to develop new renewable energy sources including:
•  Operating solar power plants at Grand Valley State and Western Michigan universities that collectively generate up to 4 megawatts of clean energy.
•  Offering a pilot program for households to install solar panels on rooftops.
•  Launching a program to allow businesses to 
purchase 100 percent clean energy, helping 
businesses like General Motors and database company Switch achieve their corporate 
sustainability goals.
•  Buying electricity from the 100-megawatt Apple 
Blossom wind farm in the Thumb.
A Cleaner, Leaner Approach to 
Meeting Michigan’s Energy Needs
Employees perform chemistry 
tests at our Lab Services facility in Jackson, Mich.DEMAND RESPONSE PROGRAMS  
encourage business and residential 
customers to voluntarily reduce energy 
use at critical times – such as the hottest 
summer days when energy demand, and 
the cost to supply and deliver that energy, is 
exceptionally high.
By reducing energy demand on peak, critical 
days, we also reduce the need to build power plants or purchase expensive power. 
The residential and business programs began 
in late 2016 but really ramped up in 2017.
In 2016, we had approximately 1,750 
residential customers enrolled in DR. By the end 
of 2017, the number of residential customers 
had increased to nearly 46,000. This equates to approximately 27.5 megawatts (MW) of enrolled 
residential demand response potential.
In 2017, we began enrolling customers in the 
business DR program, with roughly 50 MW of business demand response potential. The 
total demand response potential from the two programs combined is nearly 80 MW.
12%
Pumped
Storage11%
Renewables9%
Nuclear
10%
Oil Peaking*
.2%
Market
Purchases  22% 
Coal 36%
Natural Gas
Since 2005, our renewable energy capacity has 
grown from 3% to 11%. We look forward to continue growing this percentage as we transition from coal to renewables in support of our clean energy goals.  Electric Capacity by Fuel Source
Projections as of March 2018
*Oil fuels our peaking plants, which are only rarely used to generate 
electricity on the hottest days of summer when power is in high demand.2009
383137,178
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017Natural Gas Savings (MMcf )
Cumulative Net Realized SavingsElectric Savings (MWh )
Cumulative Net Realized Savings3,021,592
16,123Reducing Energy with 
Demand Response
Our energy efficiency programs have saved 
customers more than $1.5 billion on their energy 
bills since 2009 and helped avoid more than
5 million tons of carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emissions. For homeowners, there are rebates and 
instant savings on energy efficient products.
For businesses, there are incentives that canreduce energy use and deliver significant savings.Helping Michigan Become More Efficient
Mercury*86%
ReductionSulfur
Dioxide  SO2
NitrogenOxide  
NOX
CarbonDioxide 
CO294%
Reduction94%
Reduction
38%
Reduction
ParticulateMatter 95%
Reduction
*Tracking began in 2007By closing our Classic Seven coal plants, switching to low-sulfur Western coal and making significant 
investments in control technology, we’ve reduced many types of emissions at our coal-fired generating plants.AIR EMISSIONS
2005 – 2017
2017 2005100%50%0%PLANET PLANET
The last of 19 new wind turbines was installed during expansion 
of our Cross Winds® Energy Park in the state’s Thumb region. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 27 26 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY
Feathering Strategy to 
Protect Birds and Bats at Our Wind Farms
We’ve implemented a “feathering” 
system to help protect bats at our 
Lake Winds® and Cross Winds® 
Energy Parks. Specialized software slows down wind turbine blades 
when the time and temperature are ideal for bats to fly. The industry-best 
practice is expected to reduce bat 
fatalities by 30 percent.
Delta Solar and Flambeau Solar
CMS Enterprises, a CMS Energy affiliate, recently developed the Flambeau Solar project, 
a 3.4 MW array in Wisconsin. The carbon 
offset is about equivalent to planting more than 90,000 trees. The company is also developing 
two solar generation projects, totaling 24 MW, 
which are currently under construction in Delta Township, near Lansing, Mich.Future Blooms Bright  
For Pollinators Near Pipeline
We RESTORED 93 ACRES  of construction 
areas by using seed mix containing native 
grasses and wildflowers to attract bees, butterflies and other pollinators losing habitat across the country.
The special seed mix is just one example of how the 
company is exceeding environmental requirements on the Saginaw Trail Pipeline, a four-phase effort to replace 78 miles of aging natural gas transmission 
pipeline in Saginaw, Genesee and Oakland counties.
The native grasses and wildflowers will bloom this 
spring as new habitat for butterflies, bees and other pollinators. The additional cost was about $5,000 
compared to traditional grass seed.“It’s the right thing to do,” said Lindsey Johnson, 
the project’s environmental engineer. “This is a great 
opportunity to have a positive impact on the whole 
ecosystem and leave it better than we found it.”
475
69
69
96757575675
23
23
SAGINAW
FLINT
MILFORD
MONTROSE
FRANKENMUTH
SaginawGenesee 
OaklandPHASE 1
COMPLETEPHASE 2
2018
PHASE 3
2019
PHASE 4
2020EXISTING PIPELINEEXISTING PIPELINE
TOTAL LANDFILL  
SPACE AVOIDED
Cubic YardsWe committed to a cumulative 
waste reduction 
goal of 1 million cubic yards of 
landfill space 
avoided by 2019, and met that 
goal in 2017!
Leaving it Better at Weadock  
Consumers Energy is leaving it better in 
Hampton Township, a community near Bay City 
where we closed the historic J.C. Weadock 
power plant in 2016. We’re helping return the site to “brownfield” status, and making it available 
for potential reuse. The preparation includes 
abatement of environmental hazards, and dismantling and demolition of buildings. 
“ This is a great opportunity to 
have a positive impact on the whole ecosystem and leave it better than we found it.”PLANET PLANET
J.C. Weadock Decommissioning Team
Saginaw Trail Pipeline
Started in 2017, the Saginaw Trail Pipeline project 
is a $610 million effort to modernize our natural gas 
infrastructure. Learn more by watching this video or 
visiting ConsumersEnergy.com/saginawpipeline.
THE  SCENIC AU SABLE RIVER is 
home to six of our hydroelectric 
dams, which have produced clean, renewable energy since the early 20th century.
We’re also the primary sponsor of the 
AuSable River Canoe Marathon each summer. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 31 30 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY
WATER INTENSITY
2012 2013 2014 2016 2015 201732,102
gal/MWh
20,174
gal/MWh•  Ranked Michigan’s #1 company and 
#9 in the U.S. in Newsweek’s annual 
Green Rankings.
•  Scored highest for sustainability 
performance among U.S. energy providers for the second consecutive year according to an independent ranking by Sustainalytics. Also ranked No. 16 among 195 worldwide utilities.
•  Received U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency recognition as an ENERGY STAR
® Partner of the Year.
•  Received the Excellence in Recycling award from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality. We were one of five organizations honored for outstanding success in promoting recycling and finding new uses for recycled materials.EARNING
RECOGNITION
Cutting Water Use  
Increases Customer Value
THE ENHANCED INFRASTRUCTURE 
REPLACEMENT PROGRAM (EIRP)  
team utilized a water/drilling slurry 
reclamation process to save millions of dollars during a massive project in Southwest Michigan to install about 14 
miles of pipeline. 
The new process has resulted in saving nearly 6 million 
gallons of water and avoiding 15,767 cubic yards of mud waste.
The machine – a mud reclaimer or recycler – filters and 
cleans drilling fluid coming back from a drill bore. The machine also includes a mud tank with compartments for both incoming dirty and cleaned fluid and a desilter. After 
the fluid goes through the desilter and is deposited in the 
clean tank, it can then be pumped to the mud pump to be put back down the hole.
The unit has saved about $4 million in project costs and 
has provided additional environmental benefits such as less diesel fuel use, road traffic and dust.
Safe Disposal of Coal 
Combustion Residuals  
Construction of a $16 million concrete-lined 
tank system to store coal ash at our Campbell 
Plant represents a major leap forward in 
groundwater protection. The new tanks will help protect groundwater and promote beneficial 
reuse of about 50,000 tons of coal ash at the 
site each year.
Water Intensity  = gallons per megawatt-hour 
(MWh) of electricity generated 
Water Reduction Efforts
We’ve reduced the amount of water used to generate electricity by 35 percent since 2012. 
That represents a savings of more than 200 billion 
gallons per year. Our coal-fired generating plants, located at or near the Great Lakes, primarily use 
water as a source for cooling and return it to the 
lakes with a small increase in temperature.PLANET PLANET
Natural gas lineworkers 
embodied our commitment to sustainability by imagining a 
new process to conserve water 
and save money for customers.
The Campbell Generating Plant near Holland, Mich.Prosperity
We delivered another year of strong financial 
performance in 2017, achieving adjusted earnings per share growth of 7 percent and marking 15 years of meeting our adjusted earnings guidance. We’re proud of our consistent, industry-leading financial performance – but our business is about more than profits. We know we won’t achieve success unless the communities we serve also share in it. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 35 34 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY
Growing Businesses  
IN MICHIGAN
WHEN MICHIGAN WINS, we all win. We’re 
involved in economic development because 
we’re committed to our communities in ways 
beyond energy to sustain Michigan’s economic future. 
When new and expanding businesses look for sites, 
energy supply is foundational to their decisions. We work 
with the Michigan Economic Development Corporation (MEDC) and local economic development organizations to better understand each business’ short- and long-term 
plans and offer tools to help make them a reality.
While bringing new businesses and the jobs and 
investment they create to Michigan is critical, so is keeping businesses here and helping them grow. Together with 
state and local allies, we’ve successfully attracted and retained several businesses.For example, Lear Corporation, a global automotive 
seating and electrical systems supplier, plans to locate a 
156,000-square-foot manufacturing facility and employ 600 
workers on the former Buick City complex in Flint – also an Energy Ready site. This is the first such facility to be 
constructed in Flint in more than 30 years.
Businesses have many choices when considering 
expansion. We, along with state and local agencies, help 
businesses select a Michigan location with confidence, 
helping Michigan compete for and win jobs, growth and 
investment.
Learn more at ConsumersEnergy.com/econdev.
2,400*
NEW JOBS
$1.268
BILLION
in new investmentsMaking Site 
Selection Easier
FOR NEW AND EXPANDING  businesses considering 
Michigan, site information is critical. Consumers 
Energy is committed to helping business customers and 
economic development professionals better understand the energy potential of any site in our service territory.
The award-winning Energy Ready program was created 
in collaboration with the Michigan Economic Development Corporation and several regional and local economic 
development organizations.
We feature more than 20 Energy Ready sites that 
contain energy profile information and also identify “best-fit” business customers based on a range of energy needs. 
Site information includes competitive, customer-focused engineering service options and estimates.
By bringing energy information forward, the program also 
helps eliminate sites certain businesses may find inadequate for their needs, improving Michigan’s competitiveness. 
Energy Ready also helps us reuse energy infrastructure 
already in place at available sites. 
Visit ConsumersEnergy.com/econdev  
for more information. 
*Total new growth in Michigan based on projects 
in the 2017 calendar year.Lear Corporation
Automotive and electrical systems supplier
Flint, Mich.
$25 million  investment
600 jobsStryker
Medical technology manufacturerPortage, Mich.
$130 million  investment
105 jobs
FP Horak
Commercial printingBay City, Mich.
$4.5 million  investment
71 jobs
Garfield Twp.
Alma
Cascade Twp.
WyomingCrockery
Twp.Muskegon County (2)
Charlotte
Portage
Jackson CountyMasonFlintBurtonMt. Morris Twp.Saginaw (3)
Owosso Twp.St. Johns
Pavillion Twp. (2)
Energy Ready Site Locations2017 Business HighlightsPROSPERITY PROSPERITY
The Energy Ready program helps speed responses 
to site searches and requests for information from new and expanding businesses. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 37 36 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY
A History of  
Supporting Farmers  
For nearly a century, we’ve been helping Michigan 
farms grow. In the early 1900s, the only farmers who had electricity lived on the edge of a village 
or town.
That all changed in 1927 when we built a seven-
mile electric line between Mason and Dansville.
Nearly 10 years later, we had more than 10,000 
miles of rural lines and 41,307 farm customers. 
In 1949, we brought electricity to our 100,000th 
farm customer, making us the first utility in the nation to reach the milestone. In 2018, we serve more than 30,000 farm customers, more than any 
other utility in Michigan.
“We look forward to continue providing the safe, 
reliable and affordable electric service to agricultural customers that they’ve come to expect of us,” said 
Jim Baisden, manager of agricultural services.
Learn more at ConsumersEnergy.com/farm.
•  Ranked the #4 “Most Trusted Brand” in the 
U.S. among residential energy providers 
by Market Strategies International. 
•  Named an Honorable Mention in the list 
of Top U.S. Utilities by Site Selection magazine.
•  Received the 2017 Mid-America Economic 
Development Council’s “Deal of the Year” and “Marketing Program” awards.
•  Honored with a 2018 Impact Award by the 
Michigan Works! Association.
•  Recognized with the award for Best 
Communication/Education Program during the 2017 Governor’s Energy Excellence Awards.At CONSUMERS ENERGY,  we 
believe collaboration is one 
of the best ways to solve 
the challenges facing our state. When we 
recognized businesses across the state, 
including ours, were struggling to attract 
and retain a skilled workforce, we reached out to several stakeholders to put our minds 
together and solve the problem.
In fall 2017, we led the formation of the 
Michigan Talent Architecture Coalition, an initiative to help solve our state’s talent 
shortage and meet long-term unemployment needs. The group includes more than 100 
leaders from roughly 60 organizations. 
Today, the Coalition has three 
strategies in play:
•  The Michigan Talent Pipeline Management 
Academy is a first-of-its-kind program 
that uses a proven training methodology 
to help businesses clearly identify and communicate their talent needs with their 
preferred training providers.
•  MI Bright Future is a new career 
development web tool that provides direct 
links between students and employers in 
Michigan. Through this initiative, students connect with Michigan companies to learn 
about local careers, job shadowing and 
internship opportunities.
•  The Coalition is also working to define 
“soft skills” and provide the guidelines for 
nurturing these talents in Michigan schools. 
We’re supporting all of this because we 
want to make Michigan the top business destination in the country, while also developing and retaining hometown talent 
that will fill the jobs of the future.
Growing Michigan’s
Talent PipelinePROSPERITY PROSPERITY
EARNING
RECOGNITION
We’re helping farmers grow Michigan with safe, reliable energy. 
We also offer more than 40 agricultural-related energy efficiency incentives to help farmers save energy and money. 
A new journeyman lineworker at Marshall Training Center.
Whether in the air or on the ground, Consumers Energy crews work safely to ensure customers have the electricity they need to light their homes and power their businesses.
In fall 2017, we launched the Michigan Talent Pipeline Management Academy to help businesses attract, develop and 
retain talent in the communities we serve. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 39 38 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY
Leveraging Battery Storage and Drones
“I’m excited about helping the company chart 
a new path rooted in reliability, efficiency, and 
safety using technology,” said Nate Washburn, 
Consumers Energy’s newly named battery storage and UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) 
program manager.
“Today, we use electricity as it’s produced,” 
Washburn said. “Storing it in batteries for 
use later enables grid flexibility. When energy 
demand is high, we can tap electricity in batteries to reduce grid demand and mitigate 
outages.”
UAVs use sensors to collect data about 
our electric and natural gas systems. They 
can inspect circuits, wind turbines and 
hydroelectric dams, assess post-storm damage and detect overgrown vegetation to improve reliability and safety. 
The Future of Energy
Two new energy districts in Michigan will be the sites for implementing the next generation of energy technology, with 
the goal to reduce energy use and eliminate waste. 
“We’re setting a precedent for how we look at the grid of the 
future and that includes pursuing greener and more modular 
forms of energy supply,” said Garrick Rochow, senior vice 
president of operations at Consumers Energy.
•  Circuit West in Grand Rapids will span about 13 blocks and 
experience fewer and shorter power outages, greater energy efficiency and more accurate meter reads. Plans include an 
array of rooftop solar panels and a battery storage facility in 
a 10-block area west of downtown Grand Rapids.
•  The Jackson Smart Energy District in our hometown 
will serve as an energy innovation hub, incorporating 
smart energy technology, solar panels, electric vehicle charging, high performance buildings and battery storage units. Jackson was already ranked the fourth-most energy 
efficient small town in Michigan by the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency in 2017. It is our goal that this project elevates our hometown to first place. 
PRICES
AVERAGE RESIDENTIAL BILL PER MONTH
In addition to supporting the growth of Michigan’s business 
community, we’re striving to keep monthly energy bills affordable for our residential customers. Low energy bills mean more money 
in our customers’ pockets to spend in their communities.National Average:  Electric National Average:  Natural Gas
U.S.$112
$102$98
MI
Consumers EnergyU.S.$54$62$66
MI
Consumers Energy
Circuit West  – Grand Rapids, Mich.
Jackson Smart Energy District – Jackson, Mich.PROSPERITY PROSPERITY
An example of battery storage 
in the utility industry.
Customers can receive a paper bill, 
or access their account online 24/7.
Nate Washburn, battery storage and UAV 
program manager, is helping chart the future of 
UAVs and energy storage at Consumers Energy. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 41 40 •  CONSUMERS ENERGY
New Renewable 
Energy Program Helps Switch, General Motors in Michigan
 
General Motors and Switch 
are the first participants in a 
Consumers Energy program 
to help large businesses use renewable energy sources.
Both companies are matching 
100 percent of their electric use at key operations in Michigan with 
wind-generated power produced 
by Cross Winds
® Energy Park II in 
Michigan’s Thumb.
2012$185
2013$210
2014 2015 2016 2017$280$368
$300
2011$120
2010$45
2009$15CUSTOMER BILL SAVINGS ($ millions)$456
Our energy efficiency 
programs have helped customers save more than $1.5 billion since 2009.ENERGY
EFFICIENCY 
CUSTOMER SAVINGS
Helping Those Who Help Others
The Company We Keep  
Protecting the safety and security of our customers, employees 
and business is essential to running a sustainable company – 
and we’re proud of our proactive approach to governance. 
We’re successful in this area because we ensure information 
is shared regularly and transparently from Daily Operating 
Reviews with those closest to the work, to a regular cadence 
of information and risk sharing with senior leaders and board members. We also have a mature program in place to monitor risk and ensure we meet regulatory requirements. 
Because of our commitment to doing things right, our ethical 
culture is world class. Our co-workers are trained to speak up and stop the job if something isn’t right. Not only do our 
employees hold themselves and others to the highest standards, 
they do so while embodying our six guiding principles: 
• We Act with Integrity
•  We Earn Our Customers’ 
Business 24/7
•  We Cross the Finish Line Together •  We Put Points on the Board
•  We Leave it Better than We Found it
•  It’s a Great Place to Work
Consumers Energy donated 
1,100 LED bulbs to light the marquee at the Michigan 
Theatre of Jackson. This was 
part of more than $800,000 in upgrades donated in 2017 to make 11 of Michigan’s historic 
buildings more energy efficient.IN 2013, WE 
LAUNCHED  the 
Consumers Energy 
Nonprofit Energy Efficiency Program to help those who help 
others – nonprofits, houses of 
worship and local community 
organizations that operate out of 
historic buildings. When these groups don’t have the funding or 
staff necessary to tackle energy 
problems, we step in to design and implement efficiency plans 
and provide materials and labor 
at minimal to no cost. Over the last five years, more than 1,330 
Michigan organizations have 
taken advantage of the program, saving about $1.5 million per year 
in energy costs – and using those 
savings to help build stronger communities.PROSPERITY PROSPERITY
Energy used by the Switch PYRAMID in Grand Rapids is now fully 
matched by renewable energy from the Cross Winds® Energy Park II.
Cross Winds® Energy Park IIACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Editorial Team:  Molly Pardini, Christine Vo, 
Dan Gretzner, Todd Schulz, Tom Lambert, 
Jodie Solari, Brian BarthelmesConsumers Energy, Jackson, Mich.
Design:  Clay McAndrews & Brian Preuss,  
Consumers Energy, Jackson, Mich.
Photography:  Tom Gennara, Lansing, Mich. 
Printing:  Allied Printing Company,  
Ferndale, Mich.
This report includes “forward-looking 
statements;” please refer to our SEC filings for information regarding the risks and uncertainties that could cause our results to differ materially.
5/18 3,500
Improving Safetyand ReliabilityOne Pipe at a Time
We are improving safety and reliability to our natural gas system through our Enhanced 
Infrastructure Replacement Program (EIRP), about a $1.5 billion investment over the next two decades to replace vintage natural gas distribution pipes. In 2017, we completed more than 60 natural gas improvement projects in 17 Michigan counties. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018A CMS ENERGY COMPANYCONSUMERSENERGY.COM  •  CMSENERGY.COM