A CMS ENERGY COMPANYCMSENERGY.COM  •  CONSUMERSENERGY.COM
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
2019
Cross Winds® Energy Park in Tuscola County, Mich.CONTENTS
Delta Solar in Delta Township, Mich. 1 •   A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
 6 •   PEOPLE
 16 •   PLANET
 28 •   PROSPERITY 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 1
Patricia K. Poppe
President and Chief Executive Officer
CMS Energy and Consumers EnergyAt CONSUMERS ENERGY,  
we’re passionate about 
making life in Michigan better today while keeping 
an eye on the future – ensuring this is a great place to live for the generations ahead. That’s why I’m so proud of our company’s new, ambitious goals to increase Michigan’s clean energy sources and protect our planet for decades to come.  
By 2040, we plan to:
• S top using coal to generate electricity.
• R educe carbon emissions by
more than 90 percent.
• A nd tap renewable sources
for more than 40 percent of
the electricity we supply tocustomers.
We’re doing our part to protect the environment we all cherish. Yet, caring for our planet is only one part of our broader commitment to creating a sustainable energy future for our customers and our state.
To us, sustainability means doing what’s 
right, not merely what’s required. Rather than measuring our success through a single bottom line, we work every day toward a triple bottom line – People, Planet and Prosperity. At a time of unprecedented change in the energy industry, we’re uniquely positioned to define what it means to run a clean and lean company. What does that look like as our employees work each day to achieve World Class Performance Delivering Hometown Service? The stories inside this report will give you a peak into the work we’re doing. You’ll find stories about the people who are making a real and positive impact for Michigan by protecting the environment we all cherish and powering economic growth and opportunity for the communities we love.
I hope you learn more about our company, 
our plans and the many hardworking people that make Michigan such a special place. And I encourage you to continue following our story by visiting ConsumersEnergy.com/hometownstory.
Thank you for helping us create a sustainable 
energy future.“ I ’m so proud of our company’s 
new, ambitious goals to increase 
Michigan’s clean energy sources 
and protect our planet for 
decades to come.”
View the 2018 CMS Energy Climate 
Assessment Report at
CMSenergy.com/2018ClimatereportView the 2018 Environmental, Social, 
Governance and Sustainability Report 
at CMSenergy.com/2018ESGreport
2018   |  ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Compliant with Edison Electric Institute (EEI)  
and American Gas Association (AGA)  
Templates in place as of Nov. 29, 2018
2018  CMS ENERGY CLIMATE ASSESSMENT REPORTConsumers Energy embraces a cleaner and leaner utility 
vision focused on eliminating energy waste and adding renewable energy from sources such as wind and solar.
Learn more about how we’re cultivating a clean energy
future for Michigan.
2 • CONSUMERS ENERGY  2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 3
Service Center and Office Office Solar
SolarCombination Service Territory Natural Gas Service Territory Electric Service TerritoryHydro
Russell Leadership Center Innovation Center Enhanced Infrastructure Replacement Program (EIRP) Training CenterPeaking Plant
Cross Winds®
Energy ParkLake Winds® Energy Park
WindSolar Gardens
Grand Valley StateUniversity
DeltaSolar
Solar Gardens
Western Michigan
UniversityBirch Run EIRP
Wixom EIRPBellevue EIRPSaginawCaro
AlmaFremont
Norton Shores Greenville North Kent
East KentGrand
RapidsFlint
Lansing
Governmental/Regulatory Affairs &
Michigan Public
Service CommissionOwosso
Laingsburg
Hastings
South HavenHamilton
Jackson
JacksonParnall
T rail
StreetLabInvestment Recovery Center
Corporate Information& Governance CenterBattle Creek
Kalamazoo
Coldwater
Adrian
South MonroeGroveland Bad Axe  BenzoniaT raverse CityBoyne City
West BranchCadillac
Clare
Big Rapids
Bay CityMidlandLudington    
Howell
Macomb
Royal Oak
LivoniaOverisel
NorthvilleThetford
CampbellMuskegon RiverMarion
White PigeonRayHuron
Saginaw T&S
St. Clair
FreedomLivingston
Generating Station
Kalamazoo River
Generating Station
Natural Gas CompressorRogers
Hardy
CrotonTippyHodenpyl
Webber
AlleganAlcona
FooteCooke
Five
ChannelsLoudMio
Ludington Pumped Storage
Campbell
Zeeland
Dearborn
IndustrialGenerationTES Filer CityGrayling
Generating Station
Genesee
Power
Station
Jackson
JacksonKarn
Electric Generation
CMS Energy Facilities
Electric Generation (Biomass)
Northwest Ohio Wind (Ohio) Craven County Wood Energy (North Carolina) Flambeau Solar (Wisconsin)Electric Generation (Natural Gas and Waste) Electric Generation (Natural Gas)
Outside Michigan:Campbell
Marshall
Jackson
Headquarters
Jackson
Headquarters
Peaking Plant
WHERE
WE ARE
(From top to bottom, left to right) Ludington Pumped Storage in Ludington, Mich. , Solar Gardens power plant – Grand Valley State University in Allendale, Mich. , 
Substation in Mason, Mich. , Ray Compressor Station in Armada, Mich. , Lineworkers in Jackson, Mich. , Lineworker at Marshall Training Center in Marshall, Mich. , 
Filer City Station in TES Filer City, Mich. , Natural gas workers in Bloomfield, Mich. , Zeeland Generating Station in Zeeland, Mich. , Alcona Hydro in Glennie, Mich. , 
Preparing for restoration support in Jackson, Mich ., Cross Winds® Energy Park in Unionville, Mich. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 5
EDUCATION
> $1.6 millionLOW INCOME
FAMILIES
$10 millionENVIRONMENT
nearly $700,000SOCIAL
WELFARE
> $2.5 millionCOMMUNITY,
CULTURAL
AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
> $3.6 million
PEOPLE
PROSPERITY
>$18.5 million  DONATED
to MICHIGAN NONPROFITS
PLANETIn 2018,  more than 8,600 employees of Consumers 
Energy and CMS Energy collaborated to realize our 
purpose, “WORLD CLASS PERFORMANCE 
DELIVERING HOMETOWN SERVICE,” while always 
keeping PEOPLE, PLANET and PROSPERITY top of mind. Here is how 2018 stacked up:
We secured about
101 megawatts
of new load in our service territory,
adding over 5,700 jobs
and over $2 billion
of investment in Michiganby Professional Woman’s Magazine
Awarded the
RISING STAR AWARD
by the Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency (MVAA)Maintained a
100% RATING
in the Corporate Equality Index with 
Human Rights Campaign Foundation®
Received
2018 ENERGY STAR®
PARTNER OF THE YEAR
SUSTAINEDEXCELLENCE AWARD
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency   We reduced ourwater use by
180
million
gallonsProtected, enhanced or restored
over 750 acres of land
or about a third of the size of Mackinac Island 
by Forbes®1
or 36 days of drinking water 
for every person in Michigan  Since 2009, energy ef/f_iciency 
programs havesaved customers more than
$2 billion
on their energy billsRecognized as  
TOP UTILITY
FOR PROFESSIONAL 
WOMENNamed
BEST 
COMPANY
IN MICHIGANTO WORK FORConsumers Energy is the
LARGEST COMBINATION UTILITY in Michigan,providing natural gas and/or electricityto 6.7 million Michigan residents.4 • CONSUMERS ENERGY  2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 5People
From border to bridge and coast to coast, 
we’re helping our neighbors across Michigan 
by providing safe, reliable energy and caring 
for our communities. And in some instances, 
we’re even helping to save lives while we 
deliver hometown service.
From cleaning up parks and 
planting trees to beautifying 
roadways, Consumers Energy 
employees volunteer thousands 
of hours each year to leave 
Michigan better than we found it. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 9 8 • CONSUMERS ENERGY PEOPLE PEOPLE
CONSUMERS ENERGY IS COMMITTED  to serving our 
customers, communities and co-workers. 
Last year, we used customer feedback about what 
mattered most to improve several services. An example is our 
online Outage Center. Customers told us they needed more 
information when they’re without power, so we redesigned 
our mobile-friendly site to highlight the five stages of power 
restoration. This enables customers to track power restoration 
status in real time. 
We also enhanced our Budget Plan to enable our customers 
to enroll at any time and review their accounts more frequently 
(quarterly rather than annually). This change also helps avoid end-
of-plan-year surprises if energy use is higher than expected. 
By day, our team delivers hometown service by turning on new 
electric and natural gas connections, fixing downed wires, gas 
leaks and other behind-the-scenes tasks that deliver energy to 
our customers. By night, that hometown service takes a different 
form:
•  A hard hat is replaced with a cap and whistle for the employee 
who coaches a child’s basketball team.
•  Work boots are traded for cowboy boots for the employee who 
volunteers at a therapeutic riding stable.
•  Safety glasses are exchanged for reading glasses for the 
employee who tutors students needing extra help with studies.
Our employees are dedicated to the communities we serve 
on and off the job. When on the job, we make sure they have a 
great place to work and the tools they need to achieve work-life 
balance:
•  Our seven Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) – supporting 
employees who are women, minorities, LGBT, disabled, veterans 
and of different generations - help promote our diverse culture 
and develop initiatives that bring valuable perspective to our 
workforce. They help create an environment that naturally 
fosters and values the full contributions of all regardless of 
differences or similarities. Learn more about our ERGs by 
visiting bit.ly/CEergs  
•  Training – from career development to safety – sharpens 
employees’ skills and enhances their contributions in 
communities we serve. Last year, more than 7,300 employees 
completed health, safety and environmental training that 
included cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and first aid, 
equipping them to help co-workers, customers and the public. 
Whether our customers, neighbors, families or co-workers, 
we’re committed to serving and caring for the people of Michigan.
2009$3 million
2012 2014 2016 2018 2015$18.5 million
2017 2013 2011 2010
GIVING
Here’s a 10-year look at contributions to 
nonprofit organizations from Consumers 
Energy, its employees, retirees and foundation.
Employees participate in the 2018 Walk for Warmth in 
Jackson, Mich., to raise money for heating assistance.Our employees are dedicated to the 
communities we serve on and off the job.Delivering Hometown Service
Team Blue Means More Green 
for Nonprofits
When five or more Consumers Energy employees 
and retirees volunteer as a group, the Consumers 
Energy Foundation donates $250 in Caring for 
Community grants to qualifying nonprofits. 
You’ll find groups of individuals in blue t-shirts 
across Michigan serving meals at homeless 
shelters, building homes for Habitat for Humanity, 
beautifying community spaces, delivering water 
and removing invasive species. More than 200 
groups received Caring for Community grants last 
year. Learn more about our grant opportunities at 
ConsumersEnergy.com/foundation.  
Whether making electricity upgrades or installing 
new natural gas pipelines, employees are dedicated 
to hometown service.Our new online Outage Center 
enables customers to track their 
power restoration status in real time.
From helping build homes to serving food at shelters, 
volunteers help Michiganders across the state. #CEvolunteers
 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 11 10 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
IN 2018, NATURAL GAS AND ELECTRIC 
CREWS  took our hometown service 
across state lines. More than 140 Consumers 
Energy employees and contract personnel 
including lineworkers, damage assessors, safety 
personnel and other field employees traveled to 
Philadelphia in March to help restore power after 
a winter storm left nearly 2 million people in the 
Northeast without power. 
For the first time since 2012, our natural gas crews 
were called to help after an overpressure incident 
in Massachusetts. Twenty-one gas service 
workers, along with field leaders, a union safety 
representative and fleet, athletic training and 
administrative personnel, left in October to assist 
Columbia Gas of Massachusetts. Our team helped 
repair inside fuel lines, connect and disconnect 
appliances, install meters and test systems.
REACHING OUT  
ACROSS STATE LINESPEOPLE PEOPLE
A HOME MAKEOVER  might be considered 
a “life-changing” event, not necessarily  
“life-saving.” But it was for David and 
Karen Simon.
After winning a $5,000 makeover courtesy of our 
energy efficiency program, they were surprised to 
learn the severe headaches David had suffered for 
months were likely caused by a carbon monoxide 
leak from an old stove, which was immediately 
replaced.  
“We were very lucky,” said Karen Simon, who 
recently celebrated her 36th anniversary. “Who 
knows what would’ve happened if we didn’t win this 
makeover. We would be using that same stove. This 
was an amazing, life-saving experience. I am so 
grateful.”
Since 2009, we’ve helped our residential and 
business customers save more than $2 billion with 
more than 250 energy efficiency programs, rebates 
and incentives.
And they may have even helped save lives along 
the way. Just ask the Simons family.Home Makeover
Saves More than Energy
“ This was an amazing, life-saving 
experience. I am so grateful.”
 –Karen Simon, Customer
An efficient appliance helps lower natural gas 
use and prevent carbon monoxide poisoning.
Personal protective equipment helps 
keep natural gas workers safe. 
Multiple lights, flags and stabilizers help 
electric lineworkers stay safe. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 13 12 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
Serving More Than Natural Gas
EMPLOYEES REPLACING NATURAL GAS LINES  
outside homes around the state raised $17,642 in 
donations to help make Thanksgiving more enjoyable 
for some Michigan families in 2018.
Linda Prater was watching television when she heard a 
knock at the door. 
“Oh, what a surprise,” Prater said as she wiped tears from 
her eyes. She was one of about 600 customers to receive a turkey dinner with all the trimmings. “This means the world to 
me. I was going to go to the shelter for Thanksgiving dinner. 
Now I can stay home. Maybe I will invite a friend over now.”
The employees have raised more than $70,000 and handed 
out about 2,600 turkeys since the program began in 2013.
“This is our way of saying thanks to the customers we 
serve,” said Curtis Hays, a Consumers Energy field leader.
Turkeys left over if residents weren’t home were donated to 
the Jackson Interfaith Shelter.
See our crews delivering Thanksgiving joy here:  
bit.ly/CEturkey
We’re focused on maintaining diverse leadership. 
Currently, 45 percent of our board and nearly 
30 percent of our officers are women. See 
an interview with Consumers Energy’s first 
female vice president here bit.ly/CEfemalevp  EMPLOYEE 
DIVERSITYPEOPLE PEOPLE
Employees delivered more than 600 turkey 
dinners around the state in November, including 
Jackson, Bay City, Saginaw, Sanford and Warren.•  Recognized by Forbes® Magazine  as 
Best Employer for Diversity in Michigan , 
best large employer in Michigan , and as 
the third best energy provider in the U.S.
•  Received a perfect score for the  
Corporate Equality Index  on corporate 
policies and practices related to LGBTQ 
workplace equality and Best Places to 
Work for LGBT Equality 2018.
•  Recognized again by Michigan Veterans 
Affairs Agency  for being a Gold Level 
Certified Veteran-Friendly Employer  and 
received the third-ever Rising Star Award  
for being a premier Veteran organization in 
Michigan.EARNING
RECOGNITION
Project SEARCH
In October 2018, we welcomed nine interns 
as part of Project SEARCH, a collaborative 
effort with Jackson County Intermediate 
School District. The program helps transition 
students with disabilities from school 
to work by providing them with real-life 
work experiences through internships. 
After completing interviews with company 
employees, the interns were placed in various 
departments including mail processing, 
facilities, energy delivery, operations, 
financial planning, gas management 
services, generation engineering, system 
integrity and customer energy solutions. 
The program was largely made possible by 
members of capABLE, an employee resource 
group dedicated to hiring and supporting 
employees with disabilities.  
Employees raised $17,642 in donations to 
purchase Thanksgiving meals for customers.
 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 15 14 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
Recommitting to Employee 
and Public Safety  
 
Company Equipment Finds 
New Home in Communities
2009 2008355
2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2017 2014 2016 2018103EMPLOYEE SAFETY
RECORDABLE  INCIDENTSPEOPLE PEOPLE
Hundreds of nonprofits and several schools 
across Michigan are benefiting from 
computers, power tools and other office 
equipment no longer needed at Consumers 
Energy. In 2018, our Investment Recovery 
Center donated about $115,000 in equipment 
to these organizations. For students, those 
PCs may become the gateway to careers in 
science, technology, engineering and math. 
For nonprofit employees, the equipment may 
help them learn new skills or become more 
efficient. And, to an office manager with files, 
an organized cabinet and guest chairs can 
make serving clients more effective.
Building A More 
Inclusive Michigan 
Workforce
In August 2018, we hosted a 
Diversity and Inclusion Summit 
with more than 200 guests from 
companies and organizations 
throughout Michigan. During 
the opening session, more 
than 15 Consumers Energy co-
workers shared personal and not 
immediately visible details about 
themselves to demonstrate the 
value of including everyone using 
#IncludeMe. Attendees participated 
in candid panel discussions about 
workforce inclusion considerations, 
such as the power of recent 
graduates, the responsibilities of 
privilege and looking beyond the 
background of formerly incarcerated 
individuals. Panelists represented 
Michigan colleges, diversity and 
inclusion organizations, correctional 
facilities and Consumers 
Energy. Learn more about our 
diversity and inclusion efforts at 
ConsumersEnergy.com/diversity.
A lineworker safely climbs an 
electric pole to restore service.
To protect the integrity of our natural gas 
pipeline system, employees perform more 
than 450,000 safety inspections each year.
Older company PCs are a welcome addition 
to Michigan students interested in STEM.
The Diversity and Inclusion Summit attracted more 
than 200 people from companies across Michigan.SAFETY CONTINUES TO BE OUR NUMBER ONE PRIORITY  
at Consumers Energy. From extensive training to encouraging 
a “Stop the Job” mentality, employee and public safety are 
at the foundation of what we do every day. Regrettably, our 
recent trend of reducing on-the-job injuries came to an end when we 
encountered two tragic deaths among our workforce in 2018. 
Last spring, Travis Wilson, a CMS Energy gas worker passed away in a 
water pressure incident. In the fall, we lost Jim Farrington, a Consumers 
Energy lineworker in an electric line accident. The devastating losses of 
these two dedicated, hardworking employees were felt by our company 
family and have changed us for the better. We are determined to never 
experience a year like 2018 again.
In 2019, every employee is recommitted to safety and what it means to 
return home safe to our friends, families and neighbors. We are:
•  Uniting our family of companies to focus on one company, one safety 
culture.
•  Focusing on two key priorities:
•  Caring for co-workers.
•  Enhancing processes, procedures and standards and ensuring 
adherence through new standards and expectations.
•  Making sure everyone understands and embraces Stop the Job – 
empowering our employees to stop the work they are doing if deemed 
unsafe.
•  Promoting our Good Catch program to encourage employees to identify 
and report opportunities to improve safety at work and in public.Planet
At Consumers Energy, we’re more than pipes, 
poles and wires. We’re part of Michigan’s 
landscape. That’s why we’ve worked proudly to 
maintain the Mitten for more than 130 years. 
We’re preserving Michigan’s fields, forests and 
beaches, caring for wildlife and minimizing our 
footprint. That’s our commitment to a cleaner, 
greener energy future.
Hardy Dam, located on  
the Muskegon River, is one of 
13 hydroelectric power plants 
we operate in Michigan. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 19 18 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
20%
EE/DR/CVR
80%
TOTAL
SUPPL Y
GENERA TION22%
EE/DR/CVR
78%
TOTAL
SUPPL Y
GENERA TION2040 PROPOSED COURSE OF ACTION 2030 PROPOSED COURSE OF ACTION 2018 CURRENT ST ATE
8%
EE/DR/CVR
92%
TOTAL
SUPPL Y
GENERA TION
43% 
10% 37% 
Nuclear Pumped Stora ge/Ba ttery Market Purchases Renewable Coal Natural Gas5%
6%3%
10% 41% 
32%12% 19% 24% 
28%18% 12% Clean Energy Plan: Fu ture generation supply
CONSUMERS ENERGY HAS A LONG-TERM VISION  to create a 
more sustainable energy future for our state. Our Clean Energy 
Plan,* developed with a variety of Michigan stakeholders, is a path 
to reduce carbon emissions by more than 90 percent and end the use of coal 
as a fuel source for electricity by 2040.
But we’re not waiting two decades to do our part for Michigan’s natural 
resources. We’re working now on five-year goals to:
• Save 1 billion gallons of water.
• Reduce waste to landfills by 35 percent.
•  Enhance, restore or protect 5,000 acres of land in Michigan.
We’re off to a fast start thanks to the passion, dedication and ingenuity of 
our employees.
In 2018, we saved 180 million gallons of water by making simple 
operational changes at our generating facilities and in the field. They include: 
•  Collecting and reusing water that runs off coal piles at  
our power plants. 
•  Reducing the amount of water used to safely handle  
residuals created by burning coal.
•  Developing a new process to save water while drilling  
to replace and install new pipes.
We enhanced more than 750 acres of land around the state, including 
pipeline restoration that created habitat for butterflies, bees and other 
pollinators. About 350 employees volunteered during Earth Month to clean 
parks, trails and river banks, plant trees and pull invasive species. We’re also 
exploring ways to work with the state’s Department of Natural Resources on 
future restoration projects.
We’ve reduced the amount of waste sent to landfills by  
12 percent, in part by installing recycling and composting centers at our 
corporate headquarters — an effort we plan to expand to nearly 30 company 
locations in 2019. We’re also exploring options to recycle more utility 
poles and reuse clean soil from field projects. Get a closeup view of CMS 
Enterprises’ Delta Solar project here: bit.ly/CEdeltasolarA BETTER WAY FOR MICHIGAN  
WE’RE MAKING A POSITIVE IMPACT NOW – AND FOR THE FUTURE
Mercury*87%
ReductionSulfur
Dioxide  SO2
NitrogenOxide  
NOX
CarbonDioxide 
CO294%
Reduction94%
Reduction
38%
Reduction
ParticulateMatter 96%
Reduction
*Tracking began in 2007By closing our Classic Seven coal plants, switching to low-sulfur Western coal and making significant 
investments in control technology, we’ve reduced many types of emissions at our coal-fired generating plants.AIR EMISSIONS
2005 – 2018
2018 2005100%50%0%PLANET PLANET
2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030 2032 2034 2036 2038  10% 
0 20% 30% 
2040 Consumers Ener gy Br eakthr ough Goal : Zero coal by 2040
Coal Generating plant retirementThe retirement of Karn 1 
and 2 in 2023 would be the 
next major step in moving 
away from coal, followed by 
the scheduled phaseout of 
our remaining three coal-
ﬁ red units at the Campbell 
generating complex.DECLINING
COALGENERATION
Karn Plant
Near Bay City, Mich.
The Clean Energy Plan would meet about 65 percent of our customers’ energy 
needs with renewable energy, energy efficiency and demand response by 2040.EE = Energy Efficiency
DR = Demand Response
CVR =  Conservation Voltage 
Reduction
Delta Solar – Delta Township, Mich.
Wind turbines at Cross Winds® generate renewable energy.
*This story reflects our proposed course of action, submitted to the Michigan 
Public Service Commission in 2018 and subject to its review and approval.
At time of publication, the plan remains under review.
 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 21 20 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
PROVIDING SAFE HAVEN FOR 
ENDANGERED BIRDS
Our current and former power plants have served as 
safe breeding sites for more than 100 peregrine falcon 
chicks to hatch since 2000, including 43 at the J.H. 
Campbell Plant in West Olive. In 2018, we built a 65-
foot nesting tower at the site of the historic J.R. Whiting 
Plant, which closed in 2016. The $35,000 project 
was built for Harold and Ludwig, a male and female, 
respectively, who’ve called the site home for more than 
a decade. We’re also establishing alternative nesting 
locations for peregrines at retired power plants in 
Muskegon and near Bay City.
WORKING TOGETHER TO 
PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT
We COLLABORATED  with the 
Shiawassee National Wildlife Refuge 
to protect the environment while 
modernizing natural gas infrastructure in Saginaw 
County.
About two miles of our Saginaw Trail Pipeline project 
crossed through the refuge, which includes 9,800 
acres and is a sanctuary for migratory birds. During the 
construction process:
•  Environmental inspectors worked onsite to identify 
and protect sensitive species and their habitats
•  Environmental experts safely relocated endangered 
turtles, frogs and snakes from the construction path. •  Crews installed wash bays to clean vehicles and 
equipment entering the refuge to ensure no invasive 
species were introduced to the area.
•  Our foundation donated $5,000 to build an accessible 
platform, creating enjoyable nature and wildlife views.
•  We restored about 1.3 acres of habitat with native 
plants recommended by the refuge. 
We’re starting construction on the third phase of 
the Saginaw Trail Pipeline in 2019. Learn more at 
ConsumersEnergy.com/saginawpipeline.
475
69
69
96757575675
23
23
SAGINAW
FLINT
MILFORD
MONTROSE
FRANKENMUTH
SaginawGenesee 
OaklandPHASE 1
COMPLETE (2017)PHASE 2
COMPLETE (2018)
PHASE 3
2019
PHASE 4
2020EXISTING PIPELINEEXISTING PIPELINE
PLANET PLANET
KEEPING CULTURE, TRADITION ALIVE
We’re working with the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan to 
help preserve the tribe’s historic tradition of planting and harvesting 
wild rice from Michigan waters. A $200,000 grant from our foundation 
is supporting the tribe’s efforts to establish a teaching facility on 
Tawas Lake, where tribe members and the public can learn more 
about the cultural, ecological and nutritional significance of wild rice 
and the benefits it continues to offer. Additionally, wild rice enhances 
the biodiversity of the lakes and rivers in which it grows and helps 
improve water quality.
Our energy efficiency programs have saved customers more than $2 billion on their energy bills since 2009 and 
helped avoid more than 7 million tons of carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emissions. Homeowners can take advantage 
of rebates and instant savings on energy efficient products. For businesses, incentives are available for current and 
planned energy efficient equipment and buildings that can deliver significant long-term energy and cost savings.Helping Michigan Become More Efficient
2009
383137,178
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018Natural Gas Savings (MMcf )
Cumulative Net Realized SavingsElectric Savings (MWh )
Cumulative Net Realized Savings3,567,949
16,1232009
383137,178
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018Natural Gas Savings (MMcf )
Cumulative Net Realized SavingsElectric Savings (MWh )
Cumulative Net Realized Savings3,567,949
16,123
We are investing hundreds of millions of dollars 
to upgrade our natural gas infrastructure.PLUGGING IN
TO THE FUTURE
We’re  WORKING TO CREATE  the 
infrastructure electric vehicle 
(EV) drivers need in Michigan – today and in the 
years to come. Our plans include:
•  A program called PowerMIDrive to encourage 
the development of charging stations across 
Michigan. The three-year, $10 million effort 
includes rebates for residential customers who 
install chargers at home and site hosts who want 
to install chargers in public places. 
•  Buying or leasing 100 electric vehicles for our 
fleet over the next five years.
•  A pilot study to determine how to most efficiently 
deliver electricity to customers who own EVs. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 25 24 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
Bringing Clean and 
Lean Energy to Life
PLANET PLANET
HARNESSING THE 
WIND FOR CLEAN 
ENERGY  
IN THE LAST DECADE,  wind 
energy has become a major 
part of our plans to meet Michigan’s 
15 percent renewable energy target in 
2021 — and we’re just getting started. 
We own and operate two wind farms: 
Lake Winds® Energy park in Mason 
County and Cross Winds® Energy 
Park in Tuscola County. We added 19 
turbines to Cross Winds that began 
operating in January 2018 and we’re 
planning a second expansion (33 
turbines) that’s expected to begin 
delivering even more clean energy to 
customers in January 2020. We have 
an agreement to acquire a development 
for a new wind farm in Gratiot County.
Flambeau Solar Partners – Flambeau, Wis.
Northwest Ohio Wind – Paulding County, Ohio
WATER INTENSITY
2012 2013 2014 2016 2015 201732,102
gal/MWh
22,007
gal/MWh
2018Water Intensity  = gallons per megawatt-hour 
(MWh) of electricity generated 
Water Reduction Efforts
We’ve reduced the amount of water 
used to generate electricity by  
35 percent since 2012. That represents a 
savings of more than 200 billion gallons 
per year. Our coal-fired generating 
plants, located at or near the Great 
Lakes, primarily use water as a source 
for cooling and return it to the lakes with 
a small increase in temperature.CMS  ENTERPRISES  owns and 
operates 10 independent 
generating plants in Michigan, Ohio, Wisconsin 
and North Carolina. The plants offer nearly 
1,300 megawatts of clean energy, including 
wind, solar, biomass and natural gas generation. 
Output is sold to utilities and large corporate, 
industrial and institutional customers 
nationwide. 
“CMS Enterprises has owned and operated 
clean energy generating plants for more than 
30 years,” said Rich Mukhtar, president of CMS 
Enterprises. “We’re proud to also help shape a 
renewable energy future for CMS Energy and 
large customers nationwide.”
More recently, CMS Enterprises specializes 
in mid-to-late-stage wind and solar projects it 
can develop, own and operate. The company’s 
energy marketing group, Energy Resource 
Management, markets energy products from 
its own generating plants, enabling CMS 
Enterprises to deliver clean, renewable energy 
to customers anywhere in the U.S.
CMS Enterprises’ recent solar and wind 
development successes include:
•  Flambeau Solar of Flambeau, Wis.,  a 
2.5-megawatt, 22-acre solar array, and 
the largest in Wisconsin. Output is sold to 
DairyLand Power Cooperative. 
•  Delta Solar of Delta Township, Mich.,  
a 24-megawatt solar array dedicated last 
August. Delta Solar is the second-largest 
array in Michigan and the largest with 
single-axis trackers that follow the sun’s 
course each day. Power is sold to the 
Lansing Board of Water & Light.
•  The Northwest Ohio Wind project in 
Ohio’s Paulding County,  a 105-megawatt, 
10,000-acre wind energy park. Dedicated in 
September 2018, the plant’s output is sold 
to General Motors.
Learn more at CMS-Enterprises.com.
Delta Solar – Delta Township, Mich.
Cross Winds® Energy Park in Tuscola County, Mich.
 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 27 26 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
 PLANET PLANET
Leaving it Better Than 
We Found it in Bay City
MURRAY GALLAGHER worked 16 years at the 
Weadock Plant in Hampton Township near 
Bay City. Now, he’s part of the team that’s 
decommissioning and demolishing the retired facility.
“It’s different to see the place where you’ve worked so 
many years torn down,” said Gallagher, who has worked 
more than 40 years with Consumers Energy.
We are committed to leaving it better in the community 
where we closed the historic plant in 2016. Tearing down 
the plant — which produced power for more than 75 
years — is part of the process in returning the site to 
brownfield status for potential redevelopment.
The work, which includes abatement of environmental hazards, started in 2017 and is expected to finish in 2019.
Along with Weadock, we also retired coal-fired plants 
near Muskegon and Monroe. We’re working with each of the 
impacted communities to envision their economic futures 
and develop new ideas for success. See more about our 
efforts here: bit.ly/CEbaycity
•  Finalist  for the S&P Global Platts 
Global Energy Awards  in the category 
of Corporate Social Responsibility — 
Diversified Program.
•  Voted second (of 31)  in U.S. Investor 
Relations Perception Study  – 
Environmental Social and Governance 
(ESG)/Socially Responsible Investing 
(SRI) Metrics.EARNING
RECOGNITION
We’re working to restore the sites 
for potential redevelopment. 
PIPE REPLACEMENT  
HELPS LOWER EMISSIONS  
As PART OF OUR BROADER STRATEGY  to reduce methane 
emissions, we’re in the midst of an 18-year plan to replace 
more than 185,000 vintage service lines that deliver natural gas to 
homes and businesses across the state. Most of these half-inch 
pipes were installed in the 1960s before the industry had today’s 
advanced cathodic protection capabilities and are made from outdated 
materials such as copper and bare steel that deteriorate over time and 
account for most of the leaks on our system each year. Ultimately, the 
replacement program will reduce our methane emissions by 18 percent.
TOTAL WASTE AVOIDED 
FROM LANDFILLTons of WasteThrough 2018, we’ve diverted 
more than 1.2 million tons of 
waste from landfills.1,210,012
1992-2014 2016 2018550,338
Prosperity
We delivered another year of strong financial performance 
in 2018, marking 16 years of meeting our adjusted 
earnings guidance. As we reflect on our efforts to pursue 
our purpose of World Class Performance Delivering 
Hometown Service, we know our business is about more 
than profits. It’s about enabling the communities we serve 
to share in our success.
Karen Smoots, Michigan mom and 
inventor of the Green Glove Dryer. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 31 30 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
IN 2018,  we helped new and expanding 
businesses and the state of Michigan win big. 
Consumers Energy’s economic 
development team surpassed its annual breakthrough goal 
of attracting 101 megawatts of new electric load for the first 
time since the goal’s inception in 2015.
“Together with state and local agencies, 
Consumers Energy delivered a ‘we’ve got this’ 
customer experience to businesses that could 
locate anywhere in the world,” said Jeff Mayes, 
Executive Director of Business Customer Care. 
“We’re thrilled that more industry leaders than 
ever said yes to Michigan and Consumers Energy, 
ushering in plans for millions in investment and 
thousands of jobs.”
Among other measures, the team credits its 
breakthrough performance to:
•  Targeting specific industries more likely 
to thrive in Michigan,  including advanced 
manufacturing, agriculture and food processing, 
medical devices and data centers.
•  More quickly responding to information 
requests and developing proposals  thanks 
to highly integrated relationships and process 
improvements among business customer care, 
rates and engineering teams and state and local 
agencies.
•  Adding to its inventory sites that are part 
of the Energy Ready program,  which helps 
state and local agencies confidently identify 
and market the best sites offering energy 
infrastructure and capacity suited to new and 
expanding commercial and industrial customers. 
•  Expanding renewable energy and electric 
rate options,  including the large customer 
renewable program and a new market-based 
interruptible electric rate, that offer new and expanding businesses more long-term flexibility and 
lower costs.
In 2018, leaders in automotive, medical technology, food 
processing, distribution and other industries announced 
plans to invest more than $2 billion and create more than 
5,700 jobs in Consumers Energy’s service territory.Giving Stryker the Energy 
to Grow in Kalamazoo
STRYKER,  a leading medical technology 
company, approached Southwest Michigan 
First and Consumers Energy about siting 
a new 485,000-square-foot building that would 
house the company’s instruments division, including 
research and development operations, office space 
and new product training facilities.
Stryker’s energy needs included prepaid electric 
and natural gas service to support the facility’s 
construction, a new, dedicated substation and 
advance primary electric service enabling delivery 
of up to 4 megawatts of electricity.
Zero-cost energy infrastructure installation and 
competitive electric and natural gas rates helped 
convince Stryker to shift from securing energy on 
the open market to bundled electric and natural 
gas service from Consumers Energy, saving about 
$200,000 in energy costs per year.
Once complete in spring 2019, the $130 million 
Stryker facility is expected to create about 100 jobs 
in the area.PROSPERITY PROSPERITY
Our energy efficiency 
programs have helped 
customers save more than  
$2 billion since 2009.ENERGY
EFFICIENCY 
CUSTOMER SAVINGS
Breaking Through for 
Michigan Businesses
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2011 2010 2009$15 million$538 million
Source: Michigan Economic Development Corporation
Our online inventory of certified Energy Ready 
sites helps companies grow jobs in Michigan. 
Since 2009, customers have enjoyed 
rebates on more than 25 million 
energy efficient bulbs. 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 33 32 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
Battery Now Included  
A new era in delivering 
clean, reliable energy
A NEW LARGE-SCALE BATTERY  that can 
power 1,000 homes began operating in 
late 2018 on the campus of Western Michigan 
University.
The Parkview Battery Storage Research and 
Development Project, which will support our Clean 
Energy Plan, generates about 5 megawatts of 
electricity each day.
Engineering students at Western Michigan 
University have had the opportunity to work with 
Consumers Energy on electric battery research 
and operations.
Large-scale batteries can support wind and 
solar power plant electric production when 
declining winds and clouds reduce their output for 
short periods and could threaten their reliability.
We are also exploring other battery 
opportunities at Circuit West in Grand Rapids 
and the Jackson Smart Energy District in our 
hometown of Jackson.
“The foundation of all we do at Consumers 
Energy focuses on our Triple Bottom Line: People, 
the Planet and Prosperity,” said Tim Sparks, Vice 
President of Electric Grid Integration. “We are 
excited to launch this project and see how it will 
provide future benefits to our customers.”
For more information visit
ConsumersEnergy.com/sustainability .BEYOND HER MONTHLY BILL,  Karen Smoots 
never gave much thought to Consumers Energy. 
That changed when she started a small business.
Today, Smoots is working with us to grow her company 
— Green Glove Dryer — help the environment and improve 
life in Michigan communities.
Smoots’ product fits over air vents in homes and schools 
to dry wet hats, mittens and other winter wear without 
using additional energy.
She connected with us in 2016, when the company 
began buying Green Glove dryers to distribute at energy 
efficiency events.
The relationship expanded in early 2018 with a $20,000 
pilot to provide Green Glove dryers to every K-5 school in 
Jackson County — home to our corporate headquarters. 
Smoots helped deliver 2,600 dryers to public, private and 
charter schools. 
Together, we’re working to put dryers in more Michigan 
classrooms. A $500,000 effort is underway to distribute 
dryers to schools in 26 West Michigan counties. “Consumers Energy is a huge voice for small 
businesses,” Smoots said. “And they’re not doing it 
because they have a financial incentive. They do it because 
they truly care about the communities they’re serving.”
Learn more about the Green Glove Dryer’s success 
by following #MIDryGloves on Twitter and visiting 
ConsumersEnergy.com/hometownstory.Warming Mittens 
and HeartsPROSPERITY PROSPERITY
PRICES
AVERAGE RESIDENTIAL  
BILL PER MONTH
In addition to supporting the growth of 
Michigan’s business community, we’re 
striving to keep monthly energy bills 
affordable for our residential customers. 
Low energy bills mean more money 
in our customers’ pockets to spend in 
their communities.National Average:  Electric National Average:  Natural Gas
U.S.$117
$108$103
MI
Consumers EnergyU.S.$60$68$71
MI
Consumers Energy
Parkview Battery Storage Research and Development 
Project at Western Michigan University.
Karen Smoots, center, developed the 
Green Glove Dryer to help students 
dry their hats and mittens.
 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 35 34 • CONSUMERS ENERGY
MATT OESCH IS HOPEFUL  a $550 million 
world-class dairy processing facility in St. 
Johns will usher in a new era for Michigan’s 
dairy farmers.
Our economic development team played a key 
role in landing the 146-acre project that will bring 
nearly 300 jobs. The company expects to provide the 
processing plant up to $500,000 annually in energy 
efficiency rebates for energy-saving equipment that 
will be installed in the new facilities.
The joint venture is comprised of three facilities:
•  Spartan Michigan, LLC, the main dairy processing 
plant and a joint venture of Glanbia, Select Milk and 
Dairy Farmers of America.
•  A secondary milk plant owned by 
Proliant.
•  A wastewater treatment plant that 
will be built, owned and operated by 
Spartan Cheese Michigan group.
“This news is the silver lining we 
have been hoping for,” said Oesch, 
a dairy farmer who owns Swisslane 
Farms in Alto near Grand Rapids.“It’s a game changer that I didn’t think would 
happen. But I am glad it did.”
Learn more at ConsumersEnergy.com/hometownstory.
PROSPERITY PROSPERITY
Moo-ving  Michigan’s Economy
We’re  PROUD TO LEAD THE 
WAY  in helping Michigan-
based businesses thrive.
That’s why, in 2011, we were one of the first companies 
to invest in Pure Michigan Business Connect (PMBC). 
The initiative connects Michigan-based suppliers to 
opportunities to help them grow and expand. 
Since beating our initial PMBC spending commitment, 
we’ve set and beat increasingly higher spending goals.
In June 2015, we pledged to spend $5 billion with 
Michigan businesses over five years. We’re proud to have 
met that goal 16 months early.
“In the eight years since signing on to PMBC, we’ve built 
a legacy of setting and surpassing PMBC spending goals 
to help hometown Michigan contractors succeed,” said Brenda Ruffing, the supplier diversity program manager.
These are real dollars creating real jobs and paychecks 
in Michigan. Many of these dollars fund projects that create 
local tax revenue and improve safety, reliability, customer 
service and the environment. 
We also encourage our Michigan-based suppliers to pay 
it forward by using in-state subcontractors.
“Securing jobs and investment right here at home helps 
businesses and communities across Michigan succeed,” 
said Ruffing. “When Michigan wins, we all win.”
Learn about Consumers Energy’s commitment to 
Michigan businesses at  
ConsumersEnergy.com/puremichigan.SET, BEAT, REPEAT:  
MICHIGAN BUSINESS SPENDING GOAL 
REACHED 16 MONTHS EARLY
“ This news is a silver lining 
we have been hoping for.”
 –Matt Oesch
 Owner, Swisslane Farms
The community welcomes the $550 million dairy processing 
facility to St. Johns, Mich.
“ When Michigan wins, 
we all win.”
 –Brenda Ruffing
 Supplier Diversity
 Program Manager 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 37 36 • CONSUMERS ENERGY PROSPERITY PROSPERITY
IN MEMORY
208  EMPLOYEES HAVE LOST THEIR LIVES  
while working at CMS Energy and Consumers 
Energy. That’s 208 too many. We added two names to 
that list in 2018 – Jim Farrington and Travis Wilson. We will 
NEVER FORGET our co-workers and the dedication they 
had for serving our state. We are recommitting ourselves 
to work safely for our co-workers, our families and our 
neighbors. Learn more here: bit.ly/CE208
1917
John Brisk  
Engineer
Ernest Cox  
Meter Man
Grover Feek  
Distribution – Lineworker
Otto Marquardt  
Substation Operator
D C Sprague  
Substation Operator
1918
Clark Day  
Hydro Operator
John Johnson  
Substation Operator
Arthur Welch  
Substation Operator
Ralph Wilson  
Electric Repairman
1919
Leon Ells  
Distribution – Lineworker
Chris Koteff  Steam  
Plant – Laborer
1920
George Page  
Distribution – Lineworker
A C Rearick  
Transmission – Lineworker
Harry Richardson  
Steam Plant – Mech Rep
S R Thomas  
Distribution – Lineworker
1921
R H Byan Elm Street – 
Laborer
John Dean  
Gas Plant – Superintendent
Paul Douglas  
Distribution – Lineworker
Edward Gielda  
Distribution – Lineworker
Louis Gothes  
Elm Street – Painter
James Kimble  Gas Plant – Repairman
R H Raymond  
Elm Street – Mech Repair
Charles Royce 
Distribution – Foreman
John Spuka  
Gas Plant – Ovenman
1922
J W Burgett  
Wealthy St Plt – Carpenter
Clarence A Cowie  
Construction – Electrician
Robert Doolittle  
Distribution – Lineworker
Thomas Hopkins  
Gas Plant – Pipefitter
William S Jackson 
Distribution – Lineworker
Simon Little  
Distribution – Lineworker
George Stewart  
Distribution – Lineworker
Benj Underwood  
Distribution – Lineworker
1923
Fred Bartlett  
Distribution – Lineworker
George N Bortle  
Construction – Piledriver
Cal Bowers  
Distribution – Lineworker
Earl Breashors  
Distribution – Lineworker
Roy Curley  
Construction – Laborer
Ben Hall  
Gas Plant – Laborer
Ray Kinne  
Distribution – Lineworker
Peter Madson  
Wealthy St Plant – Laborer
John McQuaig  
P&T – Operator
W Pilmore  
Steam Plant – Electrician
John Smith  
Distribution – Lineworker1924
Julius Feher  
Gas Plant – Operator
Gaither Gryder  
Elm Street – Foreman
John Kropf  
P&T – Operator
Warren McHenry  
Transmission – Lineworker
William Murray  
Construction – Laborer
John Oliver  
Gas Plant – Operator
1925
Ernest Anderson  
Gas Plant – Operator
John Bartell  
Tower Painter
William Comstock  
Gas Plant – Laborer
Edward Gobay  
Steam Plant – Steelworker
John Lovell  
Construction – Electrician
Robert Oliver  
Distribution – Lineworker
John Winegardner  
Elm Street – Engineer
1926
John Alberg  
Steam Plant – Engineer
Roland Coverly 
Distribution – Foreman
Delbert Evans  
Distribution – Lineworker
Pearl Fuller  
Gas Dist – Laborer
George Gowling  
Gas Plant – Painter
Alphonse St James  
Car Barn Sub – Operator
1927
Richard A Baker  
Distribution – Lineworker
James Bocade  
Distribution – LineworkerEverett Butcher  
Distribution – Lineworker
Peter Hofstra  
Construction – Electrician
Donald A McLean  
Steam Plant – Steelworker
James Randull  
Distribution – Lineworker
James Shadwell  
Construction – Electrician
Fred A Thatcher  
Building Caretaker
1928
Basil Durfee  
Distribution – Lineworker
Charles Fifield  
Distribution – Foreman
William E Fuller  
P&T Substation Foreman
Mike Kosta Gas 
P&T – Laborer
Earl Liby  
Construction Groundman
Albert Powell  
Construction – Electrician
Hal C Tabor  
P&T Repairman
John VanDenberg  
Distribution – Lineworker 
1929
Don Alfred  
Steam Dist – Elect Repair
Bert Benson  
Distribution – Groundman
Marvin Brownlee  
Eastern P&T – Painter
Charles Detwiler  
Distribution – Gas Laborer
Charles Edwards  
P&T – Operator
Ward T Johnson  
Distribution – Lineworker
Sam Matteson  
Electric Meter – Lineworker
William C Miller  
Southern P&T – PatrolmanLee Smith  
Distribution – Lineworker
Tony Solman  
Gas Prod – Watchman
Clarence C Turner 
Distribution – Lineworker
Harold Woodbeck  
P&T – Tree Trimmer
1930
Oral Angell  
Distribution – Lineworker
Gilbert E Aylworth 
Distribution – Lineworker
Kenneth E Dorin 
Transmission – Lineworker
A J Flickenger  
Southern P&T – Engineer
A L Heuvelhorst  
Western P&T – Electrician
Glenn Ihrke  Eastern  
P&T – Painter
Edward Martin  
Eastern P&T – Painter
Frank E Seath  
Distribution – Lineworker
1931
Ross B Allison  
Distribution – Lineworker
Daniel J Carmody  
Gas Product – Carpenter
Edmund Geysbeek  
Distribution – Lineworker
Harland Haight  
Distribution – Lineworker
Raymond C Tuller  
Distribution – Lineworker
Donald Warner  
Distribution – Lineworker
1932
Marshall Rhodes  
Distribution – Lineworker
1933
Lewis Belson  
Distribution – Lineworker
Herman E Ott  
Distribution – Lineworker1934
William DeForest  
P&T – Operator
1935
Wilbur H Corlew  
Distribution – Lineworker
1936
Herbert P Baker  
Distribution – Gas Laborer
Bruce Ireland 
Distribution – Lineworker
Edward E Larson 
Distribution – Lineworker
Walter Peters  
Distribution – Lineworker
Floyd J Spencer 
Distribution – Lineworker
1937
Clay Boughfman 
Distribution – Lineworker
Victor Savage 
Distribution – Lineworker
Benton VanLeuven  
Distribution – Tree Trimmer
1938
Russell F Brunner 
Distribution – Lineworker
Roy Gerard  
Distribution – Lineworker
Elmer E Wood  
Right of Way – Fieldman
1939
Terry A Craig 
Distribution – Lineworker
1940
Earle Barry  
Distribution – Lineworker
Robert M Griffin 
Distribution – Lineworker
Allan Ketchum 
Distribution – Lineworker
Lyle Mitchell 
Distribution – Lineworker
Harvey A Steffens 
Electric Meter – Clerk
1941
Walter L Andrews 
Distribution – Lineworker
Garnet E Palmer 
Distribution – Gas Helper
1942
Frank Conley  
P&T – Mech Rep HelperNorvel F Dubay 
Distribution – Appl Instal
William A Sterling  
Gas Prod – Operator
1943
Herbert N Hamilton 
Distribution – Reg Stat Op
Dan Moore  
Gas Const – Carpenter
1944
Neil W Rynbrand 
Distribution – Lineworker
Stanley Zdrojkowski 
Distribution – Adv Unskilled
1945
John Kmetz  
Gas Trans – Syst Operator
1946
Carlyle E Ide 
Transmission – Lineworker
1947
Walter J Coffing 
Transmission – Maint Supv
Paul Van Tongeren 
Transmission – Lineworker 
1948
Cecil C Coverly 
Distribution – Lineworker
Elwin Downing  
Distribution – Lineworker
Dale Satterthwaite  
P&T – Gen Repairman
1949
Milborn Fagerman 
Distribution – Lineworker
1950
Donald C Brock 
Distribution – Lineworker
Gilbert D Crippen 
Distribution – Lineworker
1952
John Bartotti 
Transmission – Lineworker
Rueben Carlson 
Distribution – Lineworker
Warren E Curtis  
GO – Land and Title
1953
Howard R Hartley 
Distribution – Lineworker
Fred Petrimoulx Sr 
Distribution – LineworkerCharles Schleicher  
Div Office – Salesman
Carl H W Wald 
Engineering – Assistant
James R Young 
Distribution – Lineworker
1955
George E Woolsey  
GO – Pipe Wrapping Man
1957
Milton Iverson  
GO – Const – Mechanic B
Mike Kovats  
P&T – Oper and Gen Repair
1959
Paul R Borgeson  
Distribution – Groundman
Richard G Finn 
Distribution – Tree Trimmer
Jack D Garvey 
Distribution – Lineworker
Noel W Spore Jr 
Distribution – Lineworker
Devere Gene Tays 
Distribution – DMOS
1960
Carl A Myers  
Wage and Salary Super
1961
Harold L Flick 
Distribution – Pri Meter Man
1963
Raymond W Barr 
Distribution – Lineworker
Gordon J Eppink 
Distribution – Lineworker
1964
Richard L Hanley 
Distribution – Lineworker
1965
Geo Featheringill 
Distribution – Lineworker
Thomas B Price 
Distribution – Foreman
1966
Michael D Fifield  
GO – Rodman
Orlo J Lixey  
Distribution – DMOS
Richard E Miller 
Distribution – Gas Lineworker
Larry Palkowski  
GO – Jr Instrument Man1967
Marvin VanHemert 
Distribution – DMOS
1968
Lisle W Mann 
Distribution – Lineworker
1969
Thomas Keefer  
GO – Accountant
R S VandenBerg  
Bldg Serv – Supervisor
1970
Thomas A Sleder 
Distribution – Lineworker
1971
H. Stephen Hinkens  
Distribution – Lineworker
Harold P Schravwen 
Wealthy St Plt – Turbine Oper
1973
Mark A Blessman  
Cust Serv – Meter Reader
Thomas S Fry  
GO – Co-pilot
Ezra Jenkins  
GO – Foreman
1977
James R Nolan  
East TRC – Mech Rep B
1979
Gene L Freeman 
Distribution – Gas Lineworker
Thomas Thompson  
Cust Accts – Field Rep
1980
William F Grant 
Distribution – Lineworker
1981
Paul A Panzer Jr  
Maint – Mech Repair B
1982
Thomas R Housley  
Gen Repair A
Lloyd R Vincent  
Supervisor
1983
Marda K Aldag  
Resd Energy Adviser
Steven G Bos  
Coal Supply Operator1986
Lawrence Carlson 
Distribution – Lineworker
Harold V Lindow  
Gas Maintenance Supv
1989
David Benson 
Distribution – Tree Trimmer
1992
Richard Tiede  
Cust Serv Field Rep II
Donald Vandelaare 
Distribution – Lineworker
Phillip M Vanzandt  
Sr Lab Technician
1994
Christopher Beck  
Cust Serv – Meter Reader
1998
Paul Luna  
Distribution – Lineworker
Juan Reyes  
Elec Meter Services
Thomas Tomasik  
Distribution – Lineworker
2000
Terry G Dunning 
Distribution – Lineworker
2002
Joseph Kinsford Asante  
CMS Energy, Electrician
2005
Thomas Cole  
Lead Sub Metro Repair 
Worker
2007
James Rus  
Electric Transmission Lineworker
2012
Jeffrey H. Creel  
Distribution – Lineworker
2018
Travis Wilson  
CMS Energy, Mechanic
James Farrington  
Distribution – Lineworker
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Editorial Team:  Molly Pardini, Christine Vo,  
Dan Gretzner, Todd Schulz, Tom Lambert,  
Jodie Solari, Brian Barthelmes, Samantha Adelberg
Consumers Energy, Jackson, Mich.
Design:  Clay McAndrews & Brian Preuss,  
Consumers Energy, Jackson, Mich.
Photography:  Tom Gennara, Rod Sanford,  
Clay McAndrews 
Printing:  Allied Printing Company,  
Ferndale, Mich.
This report includes “forward-looking 
statements;” please refer to our SEC 
filings for information regarding the 
risks and uncertainties that could 
cause our results to differ materially.
5/19 3,500
Driving Success 
with the CE Way
At CONSUMERS ENERGY,  we’re 
constantly striving to improve quality 
while focusing on safety, on-time delivery 
and reducing cost. It’s a form of lean process 
improvement we call the “CE Way.” 
Each day across the company, we are setting 
standards, establishing clear targets and 
measuring our progress along the way. Daily, 
weekly and monthly operating reviews help 
ensure we’re meeting our purpose of World Class 
Performance Delivering Hometown Service. 
See how our work behind the scenes makes a 
difference for our Michigan communities
at ConsumersEnergy.com/hometownstory.A CMS ENERGY COMPANYCMSENERGY.COM  •  CONSUMERSENERGY.COM
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
2019
Delta Solar in Delta Township, Mich.