Giving the World Reasons to SmileColgate Sustainability Report 2014
2 of 80
Giving the World Reasons to Smile
About This Report
Unless otherwise indicated, this report includes environmental, occupational health 
and safety data from 100 percent of Colgate-Palmolive-owned manufacturing and technology centers around the world, excluding contract manufacturers. Financial information is presented on a consolidated basis and in U.S. dollars. The report provides data for Colgate’s fiscal year 2014, along with prior history and more recent updates where indicated. 
This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines.
For feedback, questions and comments related to Colgate’s 2014 Sustainability 
Report, please contact csr@colpal.com. For all other inquiries, please visit Colgate’s Consumer Affairs site at www.ColgatePalmolive.com.  Contents:
Message from Ian Cook  3
Company Profile  4
2011 to 2015 Strategy  6
2015 to 2020 Strategy  7
Progress to Date  8
Awards and Recognition  9
n  People  10
n  Performance  30
n  Planet  46
Partnerships  71
Key Performance Indicators  74
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index  75
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures  79
Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements 
This report, including our 2011 to 2015 and our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategies, contains 
forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements are made on the basis of Colgate’s views and assumptions as of this time and Colgate undertakes no obligation to update these statements, except as required by law. Colgate cautions investors that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual events or results may differ materially from these statements due to a number of factors. For information about factors that could impact Colgate’s business and cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, consult our filings with the SEC (including the information set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” in Colgate’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014).3 of 80
Colgate people everywhere are “Giving the World 
Reasons to Smile.” Through the hard work and leadership of Colgate people everywhere, we continue to make great strides toward our 2015 and 2020 sustainability goals. This commitment is demonstrated through the programs and partnerships that bring our brands and our values to life around the world. And Colgate’s long-standing dedication to sustainability is helping to drive our strong performance. 
 Our 2011 to 2015 Sustainability Strategy set 
focused, measurable goals aligned with our business objectives. In the People, Performance and Planet sections of this report, you will see the continued progress in all areas of the strategy. 
 Importantly , we have continued to improve children’s oral health through our 
“Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” oral education program, reaching over 50 million children last year for a total of 800 million since the program’s inception. Over 70 percent of our products developed last year had an improved sustainability profile. We also continued to make excellent progress on our Planet commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, water and waste. 
 Our newly established goals for 2015 to 2020 build on existing commitments, 
taking us deeper into the areas where we can truly make a difference. This report outlines these new commitments, including further improving the sustainability profile of our products and packaging, reducing absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent and responsibly sourcing forest commodities to reach zero net deforestation. A new target to reach 1.3 billion children with our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” oral health education program will help us continue to improve the oral health of children around the world. 
 The stories and achievements in this r eport attest to the power of Colgate 
people achieving extraordinary results by working together. With this strong commitment evident everywhere, I am confident that we will continue “Giving the World Reasons to Smile” for years to come. 
Thank you,
Ian Cook
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Message from Ian Cook4 of 80
Founded in 1806, Colgate-Palmolive is a $17.3 billion consumer 
products company that serves people around the world with well-
known brands that make their lives healthier and more enjoyable.
Colgate Brands
Colgate manufactures and markets oral care, personal care, home care and pet 
nutrition products under trusted brands such as: Colgate, Palmolive, Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick, Sanex, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sorriso, Kolynos, Elmex, Tom’s of Maine, Ajax, Axion, Soupline, Suavitel, Hill’s Science Diet, Hill’s Prescription Diet and Hill’s Ideal Balance.
Operations
Colgate operates in over 80 countries and its products are marketed in over 200 countries and territories. 
Approximately 37,700 Colgate employees drive our success.Headquartered in New York City, Colgate operates through six divisions around 
the world: 
The Company has over 50 manufacturing and research facilities globally. The vast majority 
of Colgate products are manufactured in Colgate-owned facilities. Six Divisions
Softsoap Blue- PMS 661
Silver- Foil Stamp
®
® ®
Company Profile
Hill’s Pet Nutrition Africa/EurasiaNorth America Latin America Europe/South Pacific
Asia
5 of 58
5 of 80
Business Strength Colgate Values
Colgate’s success is linked to the Company’s values of  
Caring, Global Teamwork and Continuous Improvement.
 
n Caring
The Company cares about people: Colgate people, 
customers, shareholders and business partners. Colgate is committed to act with compassion, integrity, honesty and high ethics in all situations, to listen with respect to others and to value differences. The Company is also committed to protect the global environment, to enhance the communities where Colgate people live and work and to be compliant with government laws and regulations.
n Global Teamwork
All Colgate people are part of a global team, committed to working together across countries and throughout the world. Only by sharing ideas, technologies and talents can the Company achieve and sustain profitable growth.
 
n Continuous Improvement
Colgate is committed to getting better every day in all 
it does, as individuals and as teams. By better under -
standing consumers’ and customers’ expectations and continuously working to innovate and improve products, services and processes, Colgate will become the best.
Colgate External Policy Statements  
n Environmental, Occupational Health  & Safety Policy Statement
n Code of Conduct
n Supplier Code of Conduct
n Product Safety Research Policy
n State of California Disclosure:  Supply Chain Transparency
n Global HIV/AIDS Policy Statement
n Ingredient Safety Policy
n Policy on No Deforestation
n Quality Policy StatementCompany Profile
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’102.93(3)2.84(3)
2.68(3)
2.51(3)
2.36 2.382.572.472.42(3)
2.16’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’104.2(3)4.1(3)4.0(3)3.9(3)
3.6 3.63.9 3.83.8(3)
3.5’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’1017.3 17.4
17.1
16.7
15.6
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’101.421.331.221.14
1.02
56.0057.2558.5059.7561.00
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’101.81.9
1.8
1.7 1.7
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’1058.7(2) 58.8(2)
58.3(2)
57.6(2)58.5 58.6
58.1
57.359.1(1) All per share amounts 
have been restated for the 201 3 two-for-one 
stock split.
(2) 2013-201 4 exclude 
charges related to the 201 2 Restructur -
ing Program. 201 2 
excludes costs related to the sale of land in Mexico. 2011 excludes costs associated with business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives. A complete 
reconciliation between 
reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on 
Colgate’s web site.
(3) 2013-201 4 exclude 
charges related to the 
2012 Restructuring 
Program, Venezu-
ela remeasurement 
charges and certain other 201 3-201 4 items. 
2012 excludes charges 
related to the 201 2 
Restructuring Program and certain other 201 2 
items. 2011 excludes costs associated with business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives and certain other 2011 items. 201 0 
excludes a charge 
related to the transition 
to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezu-ela and certain other 2010 items. A complete 
reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) 
and results excluding 
these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on page 79.Net Sales ($ billions)
Operating Profit And Additional  
Information(3) ($ billions)Dividends Paid(1) ($ per share)
Diluted Earnings And Additional  
Information(1)(3) ($ per share)Gross Profit Margin And Additional Information
(2) (% of sales)6 of 80
We Will 
n Promote health  
and wellness to reduce 
employee health risks  
by 15%(1)
n Achieve a 5% reduc-
tion in health costs and an improvement in early 
diagnosis of chronic 
and treatable disease
n Continue to focus 
on safety to achieve the 
goal of zero lost-time 
incidents
 We Will 
n Commit over $300 
million to increase 
our impact in the 
community
n Partner with 
dental professionals to improve community 
oral health care
n Expand “Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures” 
program externally 
to reach one billion 
children by 2020
n Provide hand-
washing awareness to over 50 million 
households
n Work with 250,000 
veterinarians worldwide 
to educate pet owners 
and provide over $100 
million in pet food  
to shelters
n Continue to provide 
Colgate products after 
natural disasters 
n Involve more 
Colgate volunteers 
in our community programsWe Will 
n Increase the sustain-
ability profile in all new 
products we produce 
and in the balance of 
our portfolio
n Ensure that ingredi-
ents continue to meet or exceed all recog-
nized standards for 
safety, quality and envi-
ronmental compliance 
and biodegradability
n Reduce the environ-
mental impact of our 
products and packages 
by 20%, by increasing 
the use of sustainable  
materials and recycled 
content We Will 
n Reduce the water 
consumed(2) in the 
manufacture of our 
products by 40% vs. 2005 consumption
n Reduce the use of 
water associated with 
our products by 15%
n Work with local and 
global organizations to 
help promote access  
to clean water
n Promote water 
conservation aware-
ness among over two 
billion consumersWe Will 
n Reduce energy 
consumption(2) and 
carbon emissions(2) 
associated with the 
manufacture(3) and 
distribution(4) of our 
products by 20%
n Reduce waste(2)(5)
sent to landfills from our operations by 15%
n Request that all key 
suppliers measure and 
disclose climate change 
information
 2011 to 2015 Strategy
Delivering  
Products  
That Delight  
Consumers  
and Respect  
Our Planet
Contributing 
to the  
Communities 
Where We Live 
and Work
Promoting 
Healthier  
 Lives
Making  
Every Drop  
of Water  
Count
Reducing  
Our Impact  
on Climate  
and the  
Environment2011 to 2015 Strategy
(1) 15% risk reduction will be measured using the Global Health 
Risk Assessment tool, launched in 2013, available to countries 
with 100 or more employees 
(2) Per unit of production 
(3) Vs. 2005
(4) Baseline year varies by geography
(5) Vs. 20107 of 80
2015 to 2020 Strategy
Colgate’s 2015 to 2020 Strategy maintains its emphasis on People, Performance and Planet, 
with focused, measurable goals that align with the Company’s business objectives. 
Contributing 
to the  
Communities 
Where We Live 
and Work
We Will 
n Continuously 
improve employee 
health and reduce 
health risks by 15%(1)
n Encourage healthier 
living for Colgate People and their 
families
n Ensure a safe 
and healthy work 
environment with a 
goal of zero lost-time 
incidents
n Provide education 
and tools to Colgate people to elevate 
financial awareness 
and planning
 We Will 
n Expand “Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures” 
program to reach 1.3 
billion children 
n Invest $300 million 
to support improved health, education 
and environment for 
thousands of people 
in communities around 
the globe
n Partner with animal 
shelters to help over 2 
million dogs and cats 
find a home
n Reach 60 million 
people annually with 
handwashing education 
n Expand “Colgate 
Cares Day” globally to be a leader in 
volunteerism
 We Will 
n Improve the sustain-
ability profile in our new 
products and product 
updates(2) 
n Commit $250 million 
to drive sustainabili-ty with breakthrough 
product and process 
innovation
n Increase the recy-
clability of our pack-
aging and increase 
recycled content to 
50%
n Have a positive 
impact by expanding access to affordable 
health and wellness 
products for millions of people in underserved 
communities
n Use the power of 
our brands to build 
awareness and drive engagement in product 
sustainabilityWe Will 
n Reduce our 
manufacturing water 
intensity by half 
compared to 2002 
n Replenish water 
withdrawn in highly stressed regions
n Increase supplier 
participation in our water stewardship 
program
n Partner with 
local and global 
organizations to 
bring clean water to 
underserved areas
of the world
n Promote water 
conservation awareness 
to all our global 
consumersWe Will 
n Responsibly source 
forest commodities to 
reach zero net defor -
estation
n Promote use of 
renewable energy and 
reduce absolute green-
house gas emissions 
from manufacturing by 
25% compared to 2002 
n Reduce our man-
ufacturing energy 
intensity by one third 
compared to 2002
n Halve our manufac-
turing waste sent to landfill per ton of prod-
uct compared to 2010, 
working toward our goal of “Zero Waste” 
n Partner with key 
suppliers, customers and consumers to 
reduce energy, green-
house gas emissions 
and waste
Brands That 
Delight 
Consumers 
and Sustain 
Our World
Helping 
Colgate People 
and Their 
Families 
Live Better
Making  
Every Drop  
of Water  
Count
Reducing  
Our Impact  
on Climate  
and the  
Environment
(1) 15% risk reduction will be measured using the Global Health Risk Assessment tool, launched in 2013, available to countries with 100 or more employees 
(2) Based on representative products from the product portfolio evaluated against comparable Colgate products across seven impact areas to characterize likely  
improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data. 8 of 80
Progress to Date
Promoting  
Healthier  
 LivesContributing 
to the  
Communities  
Where We Live  
and WorkDelivering  
Products That  
Delight Consumers 
and Respect Our 
PlanetMaking Every  
Drop of  
Water CountReducing Our
Impact on 
Climate and
the EnvironmentColgate is pleased to report excellent progress in 2014 on the Company’s 2011 to 2015 Sustainability Strategy commitment. 
The Company was named to the 2014-2015 Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, as well as to the Corporate Knight’s 
2015 Global 100 index of the most sustainable corporations in the world. Colgate was also recognized as a U.S. EPA ENERGY 
STAR 2015 Partner of the Year for the 5th year in a row, with Sustained Excellence in Energy Management. Colgate launched 
a new 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy with commitments that reflect the global challenges and opportunities that are 
important to Colgate and its stakeholders. In addition to the highlights below, more about Colgate’s progress is available on 
Colgate’s Sustainability web site at www.colgatepalmolive.com/sustainability.
PEOPLE PLANET PERFORMANCE
(1)  The performance results are based on representative products from the product portfolio eval-
uated against comparable Colgate products, across seven impact areas to characterize likely 
improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review  of quantitative and qualitative data. 
(2) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor.l Over half of Colgate 
employees have been 
invited to take advan-tage of a Health Risk Assessment tool to help them self-evalu-ate health status and understand risks, and to provide confidential 
feedback to motivate 
behavior change. 
l Close to 20,000 
Colgate employees reached the goal of 500 minutes of healthy activity during the June Global Healthy Activity Challenge, together log-ging in over 18.7 million minutes.
l Colgate celebrat -
ed World AIDS Day at many sites around the world to increase awareness and improve education on the sub-ject of HIV/AIDS. Free and confidential testing 
was also available in 
some locations.
 l Colgate’ s “Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures” 
(BSBF) oral health edu-cation program reached 50 million children in 2014, for a total of 800 million children since its inception in 1991.
l In Brazil, employ -
ees are trained to be “Agentes do Sorrisos” or “Smile Agents,” to teach BSBF in the local community. Together, they have reached over 20,000 children with 
BSBF education. 
l Hill’ s Pet Nutrition 
has contributed pet 
food with a retail value of more than $280 million to nearly 1,000 pet shelters since 2002. These donations have helped more than eight million dogs and cats 
find their forever homes.
 l Appr oximately 70% 
of the products eval-uated with Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard were  determined to be “more sustainable,” having an improvement in at least one of the following 
areas: responsible 
sourcing and raw materials, energy and greenhouse gases, water, waste, ingredient profile, packaging and social metrics.
(1) 
l As part of Colgate’ s 
Policy on Ingredient Safety, Colgate has eliminated phthalates and microplastics from all products and expects to eliminate formaldehyde donors and parabens from  
all products by the  
end of 201 5. For 
more information see Colgate’s Policy on  Ingredient Safety on the Company’s Sustainability web site.l From 2005 to 2014, 
Colgate reduced water use per ton of pro-duction by over 33%, avoiding enough water use to fill approximately 6,800 Olympic-sized swimming pools.
(2)
l A new Colgate Water 
Stewardship standard was launched in 2014 that broadens facility water programs to include water conserva-tion, water risk assess-ments and technical 
engineering applications 
that help reduce water use. Our standard sets more stringent require-ments for sites located in water-stressed areas.
l Colgate’s contri-
butions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program helped them to reach over 100,000 people in 2014 with water, sanitation systems and/or health 
and hygiene education 
in Guatemala, Peru and India.l From 2005 to 2014, 
Colgate reduced green-house gas emissions per ton of production by nearly 20%, avoiding emissions equivalent to removing approximately 180,000 passenger cars 
from the road for one 
year.
(2)
l Colgate joined the 
U.S. EPA’s Green Power Partnership in 2014 and purchased wind power renewable energy certificates. 
l Working toward the 
Company’s goal of “Zero Waste,” Colgate has reduced the amount of waste per ton of production sent to landfills by over 22% since 2010.
(2)
l Colgate pub-
lished a Policy on No Deforestation, commit-ting to mobilize resourc-es to achieve zero net deforestation by 2020.9 of 80
Awards and Recognition
Colgate continues to be recognized for efforts in Sustainability and Social Responsibility:
Brandz Top 100 
No. 56 
n
Best Global Brands
Colgate was ranked in 2014
by Interbrand as one of the 
Best Global Brands
n
Walmart Central America has named 
Colgate the Best Sustainable 
Supplier for three consecutive years 
and the Best Logistics 
Supplier for 2014 
n 
In 2014 Forbes named 
Colgate one of the 
World’s Most Valuable Brands, 
Most Innovative Companies 
and 25 Most Reputable Companies
n
Ranked No. 9 in 
Global Supply Chain Top 25 
by IT research and advisory 
company Gartner
n
Colgate named No. 1 Most Trusted 
Brand in India by The Economic 
Times Brand Equity2015 World’s Most  
Ethical Companies from 
Ethisphere Magazine
n
National Association for 
Female Executives 
Top 50 Companies for 
Executive Women 2015
n
No. 30 in Top 50 
Companies for Diversity 2014
n
2014 Working Mother 
100 Best Companies and 
Best Companies for 
Multicultural Women
n
Job search engine Indeed.com and 
Forbes recognized Colgate as one 
of the 25 Big Companies with 
 Best Work-Life Balance 
for the second consecutive year
n
Colgate named one of the 
50 Best Employers in America 
by Business Insider
n
Colgate was ranked No. 5 on 
2014 Aon Hewitt Top Companies 
for Leaders North America 
Winners list and No. 7 on the
 Global Winners listColgate named to 
2014/2015 Dow Jones  
Sustainability  
North America IndexNo. 72 on Corporate 
Knights Capital’s Global 100 
Most Sustainable 
Corporations list Colgate named  
to 2015 Fortune  
World’s Most 
Admired Companies list Colgate ranked on No.76 
Corporate Responsibility 
Magazine’s 100 Best  
Corporate Citizens list
People Performance Planet
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 
Partner of the Year 2015 for the 
5th year in a row, with recognition 
for Sustained Excellence
n
65% of Colgate’s manufacturing 
facilities have achieved 
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 
Challenge for Industry recognition
n
Colgate was ranked as one of 
the Best Global Green Brands 
in 2014 by Interbrand
n
Colgate ranked in 
Newsweek Green Rankings
2014 - No. 97 in U.S., 
No.169 global
n
94 Carbon Disclosure Score 
on CDP Climate survey 
n
Colgate was featured in CDP’s  
Global Water Report 2014
n
Colgate given a “Striding” 
ranking from Climate Counts for 
climate change action10 of 80
People
At a Glance 
37,700
 employees 
around the world
800   Million
children reached  
in 80 countries by  
Colgate’s “Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures”  
Oral Health Education 
 Program since 1991
68  Million
people reached  
annually on average since 
2011 about the health  
and hygiene benefits of 
handwashing with soap
8 Million
pet adoptions  
supported by Hill’s Pet 
Nutrition since 2002
18.7 Million
minutes of healthy activity  
logged by Colgate  
employees in July 2014  
as part of Colgate’s 
Live Better program
50% 
Over half of Colgate  
employees invited to 
use employee Health  
Risk Assessment 
tool since 201311 of 80
People
For over 200 years, Colgate has been committed to “People.” From the near 38,000 employees 
around the world who run our business to the billions of consumers who use our products, people 
are at the heart of what we do and how we do it. 12 of 80
People
Supporting Colgate People
Thousands of people around the world work together to make Colgate successful. 
In turn, the Company is committed to the success of our people throughout their careers. Through training, career development and wellness programs, Colgate helps employees stay healthy, engaged and focused on delivering products and services that meet or exceed expectations. To support the development of our people and ensure job satisfaction, we proudly offer global career opportunities, access to world-class training and education programs and continuous coaching and feedback.
Striving to Be an Employer of Choice 
We are committed to attracting, developing and retaining talented and dedicated people by:
n Maintaining a cultur e based on our core values of Caring, Global Teamwork and 
Continuous Improvement 
n Committing to our sustainability strategy focused on People, Performance and 
Planet
n Pr oviding a stimulating career with training, education and growth opportunities 
n Cr eating an exciting and motivating work environment 
n Ensuring that people feel r ecognized and rewarded 
n Pr omoting fundamental values and ongoing communication 
n Pr oviding cornerstone training programs: Valuing Colgate People, Ethics and  
Compliance and Leading with Respect 
n Recruiting and r etaining people of all backgrounds in our global workforce 
n Pr omoting healthier lives for our employees 
n Encouraging a healthy balance between work and personal r esponsibilities
Colgate works to provide opportunities for employees to obtain a balance between work and life. Programs vary by geography, but include health and wellness activities and education, seminars and resources, flexible work arrangements, adoption benefits, tuition benefits and back-up child care options. 
2014 Awards  
Highlights 
 Business Insider  
50 Best Employers 
in America 
n
Corporate  
Responsibility  
Magazine’s 100 Best  
Corporate Citizens 
n
In 2014, Forbes  
named Colgate  
one of the World’s  
Most Valuable Brands, 
Most Innovative 
Companies and  
25 Most Respectable 
Companies
n
Colgate named to  
2015 World’s Most Ethical 
Companies list by  
Ethisphere Magazine
n 
Job search engine  
Indeed.com and Forbes  
recognized Colgate  
as one of the 25  
Big Companies with 
Best Work-Life Balance 
Professional Development
Colgate’s training programs provide opportunities for Colgate people to keep current 
in their assignments and to gain valuable new skills. In 2014, together Colgate people completed over 400,000 total hours of training in our global curriculum, as well as additional hours of locally required safety, environmental and other regulatory training. In most cases, employees participate in an annual Individual Development Planning process with their managers to agree on annual learning and development plans.
 Colgate excels at developing leadership skills and fostering the next generation of 
Colgate leaders. Key leadership courses include “Driving Team Effectiveness in the Organization,” “Fundamentals of Accelerating Effective Change,” “Fundamentals of Colgate Leadership” and “Valuing Colgate People: Leadership in Action.” Programs such as the Colgate Leadership Challenge provide early-in-career individuals from around the world an opportunity to come to New York City and work together as a team to recommend solutions to leadership for real Colgate business challenges. Colgate also sends a team of high-potential, Director-level leaders to participate in the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College Global Leadership 2030 program.
Leadership in Action
Colgate partnered with Stanford Graduate School of Business in California to hold the 2014 General Managers’ Forum. 
Stanford professors and Colgate leaders together delivered insights on Brand Building in a Digital World, Becoming Smarter 
and Faster through Analytics, Growing through Innovative Solutions and Leading Colgate into the Future. Participants 
rotated through the Forum’s “course offerings” in smaller groups, where they were able to experience working with the new skills and technology tools needed for maximum effectiveness in today’s world. Participants also had exposure to leading 
thinkers and practices in digital and social media marketing and advanced analytics. Top  
Companies for 
Leaders 
Colgate was ranked  
No. 5 on 2014  
Aon Hewitt Top  
Companies for Leaders 
North America  
Winners list and  
No. 7 on the  
Global Winners list.
13 of 80
PeopleLiving Better in Peru
Colgate Live Better programs address the highest risk factors for Colgate people such as 
nutrition, physical activity, stress and body weight. Health and Wellness 
Our Sustainability Strategy includes a commitment to “Helping Colgate People and 
Their Families Live Better.” Through our “Live Better” programs, we promote physical, emotional and financial wellness for Colgate people and their families. 
 Since 2013, Colgate has offer ed over half of our employees across multiple 
geographies access to a Health Risk Assessment tool to help them self-evaluate health status, understand risks and provide confidential feedback to motivate behavior change. Colgate also aggregates this data anonymously to focus our Live Better programs on the highest risk factors for Colgate people, such as nutrition, physical activity, stress and body weight. We are continuing to expand the program with a goal to reach all countries with 100 or more employees by 2020. 
 Colgate is also committed to ensuring the financial well-being of our employees 
and is rolling out financial education materials and planning tools in 20 select subsidiaries. 
14 of 80
PeopleA key Live Better program is the annual Healthy Activity Challenge, which encourages 
employees to track and log at least 500 minutes of healthy activity in one month, in line with medical experts’ recommendations for minimum physical activity to sustain good health. During the month, Colgate sponsors activities from yoga classes to group walks for Colgate people, and many locations hold health and wellness events to educate and motivate employees on the topics of nutrition, weight loss and a healthy body and mind. In 2014, over 19,000 employees reached their goal, and Colgate people logged in nearly 19 million minutes.
South Africa
VietnamBrazilHealthy Activity Challenge Participation
Ukraine  Number of Employees
Year T otal Minutes in Millions  Who Reached 500 Minutes Goal
2014  18.7  19,700
2013  12.9 20,100
2012  9.4  14,300
2011  9.1 15,800
15 of 80
Peopleper 200,000 work-hours
00.51.01.52.02.5
Total Recordable Rate 
Lost Workday Case Rate   
2013 2012 2014 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998
Global Safety StatisticsEmployee Safety 
The health and safety of our customers, our employees and the communities in which 
we operate is paramount in all we do—our goal is zero incidents. Colgate people around the world are committed to being Colgate Careful by maintaining a robust safety culture and healthy and safe working conditions. 
 Colgate’ s global occupational health and safety program is grounded in our Envi -
ronmental, Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) Standards. While we do not par -
ticipate in the OHSAS 18001 certification system, our management system expecta -
tions are well aligned. Colgate sites are expected to self-assess conformance with our standards at an eighteen-month interval. Corporate audits are conducted every three to five years, closure progress is reported quarterly and verification audits are con-ducted to provide closure assurance. Third-party industrial hygiene firms also review our operations annually to ensure occupational health exposures are well controlled. 
 Colgate also pr ovides safety training programs as an important part of our safety 
management strategy. Courses offered include EOHS Management Systems, Coach-ing and Feedback, Hearing Conservation, Lockout/Tagout, Confined Space Entry and Fire Safety Emergency. Evacuation drills across our sites also ensure we are prepared in the event of unforeseen circumstances.
In 2014, our safety results were not statistically different from prior years; however,  
for the first time in many years, there were two on-site fatalities when contractors were servicing our facilities. In response, Colgate sharpened our focus on job tasks and activities that present the highest risk profile. Each Colgate manufacturing and technology facility completed a risk analysis to identify job tasks that have greater likelihood of resulting in a fatality and/or serious injury, and created action plans to strengthen hazard mitigation strategies associated with that work. 
 Safety Highlights 
2014
Cambridge, Ohio
plant recognized by  
the Ohio Department of 
Health as part of  
its Healthy Worksite  
Awards program 
n
Huangpu, China
 plant received the  
2014 National Safety 
Month Advanced  
Plant Award from the  
local government
n 
Mission Hills, Mexico
plant received  
Colgate’s Gold level  
President’s Safety  
Award for 6 million  
hours without a  
lost-time incident
n
Morristown, Tennessee 
plant creatively  
reduced noise  
levels to some  
of the lowest in the  
Colgate world 
16 of 80
PeopleColgate’s Safety Culture
Our safety culture is built on a foundation of leadership, recognition and employee 
engagement. Several key programs help ensure our safety culture is robust.
n The Pr esident’s Safety Award Program recognizes Colgate sites as they achieve 
specific milestones of time in years and/or hours without a Lost W orkday Injury or 
Illness. In 2014, 58 percent of our manufacturing facilities received one or more awards. 
n W e recently introduced “Cathy Colgate,” our new global safety champion. Cathy 
will help communicate the renewed Minimum Safe Behaviors and other safety programs to Colgate people. 
n Each Mar ch Colgate holds a Company-wide Safety Week, sharing best practices 
and refreshing our focus on health and safety. Several Safety Week events also include Colgate families in fun and educational activities. Colgate’ s 2014 Safety 
Week themes were risk management, electrical safety and noise awareness, important for Colgate people at all of our facilities. 
3 Pr otect yourself against a  
fall when working at heights
3 Obtain a permit befor e entering a 
confined space
3 Obtain a permit befor e 
performing hot work
3 Obtain a permit befor e breaking  
a line
3 Buckle up for safety
3 Use pr oper personal protective 
equipment
3 V erify equipment is de-energized 
or isolated before beginning work; “Lock it Out”7  No disabling or bypassing 
machine guards
7  No distractions while driving  
or operating machinery
7  No unauthorized dischar ges  
to the environment
7  No horseplay or fighting
7  No drugs and alcohol
7  No smokingColgate’s Minimum Safe Behaviors
17 of 80
PeopleHIV/AIDS Commitment
Colgate recognizes the continuing seriousness of the global HIV/AIDS epidemic 
and its impact on the workplace and society. Our global Colgate HIV/AIDS strategy and policy focus on non-discrimination and confidentiality, prevention, access to treatment, partnerships with third parties and proactive organizational support. Colgate holds World AIDS Day programs around the world each December and provides ongoing opportunities for confidential testing and awareness education—especially in Colgate regions with high incidence rates of HIV/AIDS.
 Thr ough our programs around the world, we are working to limit the impact of 
HIV/AIDS and maintaining an environment at Colgate that is conducive to openness and acceptance. For example, Colgate’s Latin America Division conducts internal HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns in each of the Division’s subsidiaries. Under the “Positive Step” program in India, Colgate employees support a group of children living with HIV/AIDS by providing special nutrition and sponsoring their school fees. In Central America, Colgate educates employees and their families through training and awareness campaigns. The topic of HIV/AIDS is also included in the “onboarding” program for new hires. Colgate Headquarters in New York City recognizes World AIDS Day by displaying a section of the AIDS Memorial Quilt and by inviting a guest speaker. 
Caring in South Africa
In South Africa, Colgate holds an AIDS Week in early December with events such as a  
candle-lighting commemoration, a “Family Day” with employees and their families and 
free, confidential testing.Colgate’s  
HIV/AIDS Policy 
Statement 
Helps limit the impact 
of HIV/AIDS in the 
workplace and personal 
lives of Colgate people 
and their families
n
Helps create an 
environment that is 
conducive to openness, 
disclosure and 
acceptance among 
all employees
n 
Ensures 
non-discrimination
n
Identifies and protects 
individual rights 
and outlines the 
responsibilities of 
Colgate people related 
to HIV/AIDS
n
Promotes access 
to treatment
n
Details awareness  
and preventive training 
programs to reduce 
the possibility of 
contracting HIV/AIDS 
18 of 80
Peoplen Asian Action Network
n Black Action Committee
n Colgate W omen’s Network
n Colgate Gay , Lesbian, Bisexual,   
 T ransgender (GLBT) Network
n Colgate Par ents Networkn Hill’ s 4 Generation Network
n Hill’ s Diversity Council
n Hill’ s Women Empowerment  
 Network
n Hispanic Action Network 
n New Employee Or ganizationDiversity at Colgate
 
38 %  
women in  
global workforce 
35 %  
women in 
 management positions  
(global)
40%  
women in 
management positions  
(U.S.)
31%   
minorities in U.S.  
workforce
33%
of all  
U.S. managers  
are minorities
20%
women on  
Board of Directors 
30%  
minorities on  
Board of Directors Diversity and Inclusion
Colgate’s objective is to foster an inclusive workplace that reflects the diversity of the 
global marketplace. Such an environment provides all Colgate people with the oppor -
tunity to make unique contributions to our business success. Colgate is committed to providing employment, training, compensation, promotional opportunities and all other terms and conditions of employment without regard to race, color, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status or any other basis protected by law.
 Colgate’ s training program “Valuing Colgate People” is taught in every Colgate 
subsidiary globally. And through Colgate’s day-long, interactive “Fostering an Inclu-sive Work Environment” training program, participants gain a greater understanding of diversity and the role we all play in supporting a global, inclusive workplace. Colgate also partners with organizations such as the Conference Board, Diversity Best Prac-tices, the National Association for Female Executives (NAFE), Working Mother Media, DiversityInc, LatinaStyle and Catalyst to develop an effective and supportive work environment. 
 T o help foster an atmosphere of inclusiveness, Colgate supports network and 
affinity groups representing many different perspectives and ways of life. Each group contributes to Colgate’s inclusive work environment by developing and implement-ing activities and programs to promote work and community involvement, as well as cultural awareness. 
A Selection of Colgate Network Groups
Supplier Diversity
Colgate works with selected diverse suppliers in North America to build their 
business capabilities, improve their ability to respond to requests for proposals and their understanding of the business requirements of corporate customers. Our Supplier Diversity team in the U.S. encourages increased and expanded business relationships with minority-owned and women-owned businesses, developing mutually beneficial supply relationships. Colgate also participates as a member of the National Minority Supplier Development Council, Women’s Business Enterprise National Council and the City of New York Corporate Alliance program in mentoring women-owned and diverse-owned suppliers. One of our key priorities has been the execution of Supplier Days, when we invite suppliers to Colgate for an exchange of information on capabilities and opportunities.2014 Working  
Mother 100 Best  
Companies
DiversityInc 
Top 50 Companies 
for Diversity 2014
19 of 80
People20 of 80
People
Colgate is committed to doing business with integrity 
and respect for all people and for the world around us. With governance and ethics principles embedded into Company culture, as well as standards supporting the well-being of Colgate people and the workers in our supply chain, Colgate ensures its business success goes hand-in-hand with business integrity. 
Code of Conduct and Global Business  
Practices Guidelines
Since 1987, our Code of Conduct has served as a 
guide for our daily business interactions, reflecting our corporate values and our standard for ethical behavior. One hundred percent of salaried and clerical Colgate people participate in annual training and certification on the Code of Conduct. Hourly employees complete this training and certification process every other year. Our audit firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , audits a cross-section of these certifications. Colgate’s Global Business Practices Guidelines provide further information to our employees on key topics in our Code of Conduct. The Guidelines offer clear, practical guidance and illustrate how the values and principles outlined in the Code of Conduct apply to particular business situations. 
 The Colgate “EthicsLine” pr ovides a means for 
employees and external parties to ask questions, obtain guidance or report any suspected violations of the Code of Conduct. We work to create a workplace free of inappropriate or unlawful behavior in which people are encouraged to share their concerns with the Company without fear of retaliation. Consequently, at Colgate, no adverse action will be taken against any employee, former employee, agent or third party for complaining about, reporting, participating in or assisting in the investigation of a suspected violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct, Company policy or applicable law, unless the allegation made or information provided is found to be intentionally false. Colgate fully investigates all potential Code violations 
and ensures that the appropriate actions are taken. In 2014, we received approximately 300 contacts through the EthicsLine, covering a wide variety of questions and topics, including potential violations of the Company’s Code of Conduct. Every alleged Code violation was thoroughly investigated and, when necessary, appropriate remedial action was taken.
No Political Contributions
Colgate has a long-standing policy against making contributions to political parties or candidates, which is set forth in our Code of Conduct and Global Business Practices Guidelines. These policies prohibit 
contributions to any politi  cal party or candidate, whether 
federal, state or local. We also prohibit U.S. trade associations from using any portion of Colgate dues for political contributions and we conduct an annual reminder and certification process to ensure trade association awareness and compliance. 
Anti-Bribery
Colgate has a strict policy prohibiting bribery of  governmental officials and private commercial parties anywhere we do business. This policy is outlined in the Code of Conduct and Global Business Practices Guidelines. Colgate also mandates that the third parties with whom we work comply with our anti-bribery policy, which is included in our Supplier Code of Conduct and further communicated to third parties through our global Due Diligence Process. Business Integrity
See the Global Ethics and Compliance section of Colgate’s web site for more information on business integrity at Colgate. Colgate also discloses significant legal proceedings in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.Human and Labor Rights
Colgate has a long-standing commitment to respecting human rights and labor rights 
worldwide and supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  Colgate was also one of the founding members of the Global Sullivan Principles. 
 Colgate’ s internal Human Resources Labor Standard sets minimum labor per -
formance expectations globally, and Colgate assures conformance to the standard across our operations through internal audits. Colgate has also launched a third-party Ethical Compliance Audit program for Colgate manufacturing facilities, using the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol. The audit protocol investigates criteria covering freedom of association, child labor, hazards, health and safety, wages and benefits, working hours and discrimination, as well as environmental and busi-ness ethics matters. While not anticipated, corrective actions will be taken should we encounter any potential areas of concern in these audits.  
Colgate practices and seeks to work with business partners who promote the following standards: 
n Equal opportunity for employees at all levels; 
n A safe and healthy workplace pr otecting human health and the environment; 
n Pr oviding employees the opportunity to improve their skills and capabilities; 
n Respecting employees’ lawful fr eedom of association; 
n and working with the gover nments and communities in which we do business to improve the educational, cultural, 
economic and social well-being in those communities. Human Rights
Colgate supports the  
United Nations  
Universal Declaration  
of Human Rights
21 of 80
PeopleSupply Chain Integrity
Colgate people are committed to the highest standards of integrity and full 
conformance to the Company’s Code of Conduct. It is our goal to ensure that our relationships with our supplier partners reflect and support the same high ethical standards. 
 Colgate’s Supplier Code of Conduct sets the Company’s expectations for 
suppliers in a number of critical areas, including labor practices, environment, health and safety, human rights, ethical dealings and management systems. The Code is provided to suppliers, and Colgate’s contracts and purchase orders typically require suppliers to abide by the Code’s standards (or suppliers’ comparable code standards), including applicable labor and equal employment laws, as well as Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety regulations, and to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Anti-Bribery Policy. 
 Additionally , through Colgate’s Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment 
Program, Colgate uses an industry-standard self-assessment questionnaire focused on labor practices, health and safety, environmental management and business practices to assess suppliers. When suppliers are assessed as high risk, we perform third-party audits of their facilities. If any areas of non-compliance are detected, we work with the supplier to ensure these concerns are promptly remedied. We are including this assessment program as part of our supplier qualification process. 
 Colgate is also a member of SEDEX, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, which 
is the largest collaborative platform for sharing ethical supply chain data, as well as AIM-PROGRESS, a global industry forum to promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. Through these platforms, suppliers share assessment and audit data with other manufacturing companies that often share the same suppliers, enabling us to gain information more efficiently and relieving the burden of “audit fatigue” on suppliers. 
 W e have also participated in capacity building sessions through the AIM-
PROGRESS forum that are designed to improve suppliers’ social and environmental performance. The sessions explain the responsible sourcing assessment process and prepare suppliers for assessments and audits of their facilities. We have participated in events in Latin America and North America. In addition, Colgate conducts similar supplier responsible sourcing training events for our suppliers. 
Conflict Minerals
Colgate supports ending the violence and human rights violations by armed groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and neighboring countries that has been funded in part by proceeds from the mining of cassiterite, columbite-tantalite (coltan), wolframite and gold, including their derivatives, tin, tantalum and tungsten (3TGs). 
 For mor e information see Colgate’s most recent SEC Specialized Disclosure  
Report available on the “For Investors” section of ColgatePalmolive.com. 2015 Goal
70%  
of Colgate’s  
suppliers in at-risk  
industries, geographies  
or environments  
will undergo a  
responsible sourcing 
self-assessment and/ 
or third-party audit.Key Supplier  
Policies
Supplier Code  
of Conduct
n
Policy on  
No Deforestation
22 of 80
PeopleContributing to Communities
Promoting Oral Health 
Many children around the world do not have access 
to basic dental care and education. The World Health Organization calls caries (cavities) the “most chronic global disease,” affecting 60 to 90 percent of school children and nearly 100 percent of adults. As a leading provider of oral care products, Colgate has the unique ability to address this major social issue and to educate and improve the oral health of children and their families. Colgate’s flagship “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” (BSBF) program is among the most far-reaching, successful children’s oral health initiatives in the world. With long-standing partnerships with governments, schools and communities, BSBF has reached more than 800 million children and their families across 80 countries since 1991, with a new goal to reach 1.3 billion children by 2020.
 Thr ough BSBF , Colgate distributes toothpaste and 
toothbrushes and videos, books, software and activities in over 30 languages for use in the classroom or at home. Volunteer dentists visit local communities to conduct free dental screenings and educate children and their families about the importance of maintaining good  oral health. 
 Colgate partners with gover nment health agencies, 
non-governmental associations (NGOs) and dental associations to expand the reach of oral care education around the world. As a founding sponsor of the Alliance for a Cavity-Free Future (ACFF), Colgate has joined a worldwide group of experts seeking to promote inte-grated clinical and public health action in order to stop caries initiation and progression, and to move towards a Cavity-Free Future for all age groups. The ACFF has launched over 15 local chapters around the world. Activities include developing clinical principles and a standard treatment plan for dental caries, publication of content on dental caries, promoting anti-caries pro-grams to children and the elderly, collaborating to place dental caries on the agenda of key policy stakehold-ers and creating a series of Public Opinion Surveys to assess the public understanding of dental caries. 
2011  650
2012   700
2013    750
2014     800
2020     1,300GoalMillions of Children Reached through “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” 
23 of 80
PeopleIn South Africa, Colgate sponsors the Phelophepa Train, a 
mobile hospital that provides medical care and oral health care in communities where medical services and infrastructure are unavailable. Each year the train treats nearly 50,000 people in 37 communities. In Brazil, employees are trained to be “Agentes do Sorrisos” or “Smile Agents” to teach BSBF in local communities. The program now has a network of 450 volunteers who have reached over 20,000 children with BSBF education. 
Oral Health Care Highlights
n Colgate has partner ed to conduct a clinical trial aimed at 
improving the oral health outcomes of children in Southern Thailand through school-based intervention, including school-based oral health education and daily toothbrushing for primary grade level children. The study demonstrated the importance of early intervention and education for reducing cavities, and the potential for school-based intervention to have a significant impact. Colgate also partners with the Brazil Ministry of Health to train “Community Health Agents” to teach oral care and handwashing education in the community. Over 20,000 agents have been trained since the program’s inception, reaching 12 million people in more than twelve cities in Brazil. 
n Colgate partnered with the New York University College of Dentistry and the Henry Schein Cares Global Student Outreach Program on a two-and-a-half year program to improve the oral health of children across the country of Grenada. The program reached children in all Grenada schools and resulted in a 90% decrease in tooth decay. 
24 of 80
People Through our partnership with the 
Ministry of Education and Training in Vietnam, we have reached more than 22 million kindergarten and elementary age children and trained 20,000 teachers across the country since 1996.
n Colgate partners with the 
American Dental Association Foundation each year to sponsor the “Give Kids A Smile
®” 
program, providing oral health education and free preventive and restorative care to children from low-income families. Each year, approximately 350,000 underserved children benefit from more than 1,500 events thanks to the efforts of 40,000 or more annual volunteers.
n Colgate has partner ed with the New Zealand Dental 
Association for three years to sponsor free dental clinics in  New Zealand during Oral Health Month.
n The BSBF pr ogram enables Colgate to make a significant 
impact in the communities where we live and work, while engaging with consumers to build our brand value. Partner -
ships with retail stores around the world from Walmart in the U.S., to Carrefour in Brazil, to Walgreens in the Caribbean, to Coles in Australia allow us to promote oral health while building our brands and driving in-store sales. For example, a partnership with Coles supermarket in Australia on BSBF helped to increase Colgate children’s oral care product sales in 2014. Partnerships during Oral Health Month with retailers in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic in 2014 helped to increase sales and market share growth. Colgate also partners with retailers on other sustainability initiatives such as product sustainability and recycling. See page 44 for more information.
Colgate partners with the Mexican Dental Association Foun -
dation and the Ministry of Public Education on the SaludArte (Health and Art) initiative. More than 25,000 children in 110 public schools now participate in the program, which includes daily handwashing and toothbrushing, a well-balanced meal and time for play, art, cultural activities and sports. 
Oral Health Care Highlights
25 of 80
PeopleIn some countries, Colgate also teaches handwashing as part of our “Bright Smiles, Bright 
Futures” oral care education program.Handwashing  
2014 Highlights
7 million children  
reached in Latin America 
with in-classroom  
education
n 
 3 million children  
reached in Africa with  
in-class education
n
3.4 million children 
reached in Thailand with 
in-class education
n
“Clean Hands,  
Good Health” program  
relaunched in  
South Pacific region,  
with new materials,  
awareness campaigns  
and Global Handwashing 
Day eventsHandwashing Education
The simple act of washing hands with soap is one of the most effective ways to 
prevent disease transmission, especially in children. Handwashing with soap at key times however is not widely practiced. As a leading marketer of bar and liquid hand soaps, Colgate is working with public health officials, academia, local schools and clinics to educate millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene benefits of handwashing with soap. Colgate’s global handwashing program provides educational materials and sample products to schools and communities, and builds awareness through advertising and public relations campaigns. In some countries, Colgate teaches handwashing as part of our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” oral care education program. 
  Colgate’ s goal is to raise handwashing awareness in over 50 million households 
by 2015. Since 2011, we have reached an average of 68 million people annually through media campaigns, community events and educational programs in schools.
26 of 80
PeopleHelping Pets in 
South Africa
Hill’s Pet Nutrition 
helped sponsor a  
Community Veterinary 
Clinics event in South 
Africa, bringing together 
both local and  
international volunteers  
to provide treatment 
to pets in need. 
Veterinarians and 
volunteers provided 
vaccinations against 
rabies, tick and flea 
control, surgeries where 
needed, the sterilization 
of cats and dogs,  
as well as education 
to pet owners.Helping Pets Find a Home
Through the Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love® program, Colgate partners with animal 
shelters across the United States and provides Hill’s Science Diet pet food at a 
discount. Through this partnership, the Company provided pet food with a retail value of more than $2.7 million in 2014, which adds up to more than $280 million to nearly 1,000 shelters since the program’s inception in 2002. These donations have helped more than eight million dogs and cats find their forever homes. Further, through the Hill’s Disaster Relief Network, Hill’s Pet Nutrition partners with shelters to quickly provide food shipments in the event of an emergency. In 2013 and 2014, Hill’s responded to 25 emergencies across the U.S., from tornadoes to wild fires.
27 of 80
People28 of 80
People
For more than 25 years, Colgate has been a sponsor of Starlight Children’s Foundation, a 
leading global charity that partners with experts to improve the life and health of kids and 
families around the world. Colgate has contributed more than $11.6 million to Starlight 
programs such as the Starbright World® online community for teens affected by chronic or 
serious illness, Starlight® Fun Center® mobile entertainment units and Starlight® Tablets in 
hospitals in the U.S. to offer fun and distraction for pediatric patient s. In the past, Colgate 
has also sponsored legacy programs such as PC Pal laptops, family activities and patient “wishes.”Starlight Children’s FoundationContributions
Colgate contributes both funding and products to a wide range of charities and com-
munity organizations around the world. Colgate also partners with retailers, consum-ers and our employees to raise funds. Driven by Colgate’s core value of Caring and supported by the involvement of Colgate people, our Global Giving Program makes a difference in the communities we serve by supporting organizations that address health and educational disparities.
 Colgate’ s giving priorities are 1) creating educational opportunities, 2) advancing 
health and well-being and 3) engaging Colgate people.Contributions 
Around the World
$28.96 million in  
contributions  
in 2014. 
n
Colgate donated  
LaCroix bleach  
and Pharmapur soap 
in African countries  
affected by  
or at risk for the  
Ebola outbreak.
n 
Colgate sponsors  
the Colgate Women’s 
Games each year,  
the largest women’s  
indoor track and  
field series in the U.S.
n
Campaigns across  
Europe in 2013  
and 2014 invited  
consumers to “donate”  
a smile online.  
For every smile photo  
uploaded, Colgate  
donated to  
children’s charities.
n
Tom’s of Maine  
donates 10%  
of profits each year  
to nonprofit,  
community-based  
organizations. 
n
Colgate partners  
with The Smith Family 
charity to  
support education 
for disadvantaged  
children in Australia.
Colgate People Giving Back
Colgate provides opportunities for our people to volunteer in local communities throughout the year. As part of 
our 2015 goal to involve more Colgate volunteers in our community programs, we have created ways for Colgate people to volunteer with our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” (BSBF) program and other Colgate-sponsored activities, and we are building more programs each year. Colgate people are eager and enthusiastic volunteers. Here are just some examples from around the world. 
Colgate people in many locations across the U.S. rolled up their sleeves  and contributed to local communities during the second annual Colgate Cares Day in 2014. Volunteers gave their time in activities such as delivering meals to homebound seniors, restoring a park area and teaching Colgate’s BSBF program. 
Tom’s of Maine celebrates an annual Goodness Day when every employee 
can volunteer in the community. In 2014, Tom’s closed its offices and manufacturing facility and spent the day volunteering in Cape Elizabeth, working together to restore the natural landscape.
The Caring Hearts program at Hill’s Pet Nutrition in Topeka, Kansas links 
employees to more than 200 local agencies and their projects.
In the Philippines, Colgate employees joined the Department of Education’s 
“Adopt A School” program to rebuild a school in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan. Colgate people repainted classrooms and provided school supplies and toiletries for the children.
In Mission Hills, Mexico, employee volunteers are mentors for disadvantaged 
children, providing clothes, shoes, school items and toys, as well as mentor -
ing and friendship.
To celebrate Earth Day 2014, Colgate people in Ghana volunteered to clean 
up the beach. Employees in Kenya planted trees at a local university. In Portugal, Colgate people celebrated Earth Day by planting trees, gardening and painting for the Cooperative for Education & Rehabilitation of Disabled Citizens. Colgate people also taught our BSBF program and donated electronics to the organization. 
29 of 80
People30 of 80
Performance
Colgate continues to demonstrate strong financial performance. “Performance” is more than just 
financial strength—it is our commitment to grow the business with innovative, more sustainable 
products that make the lives of consumers healthier and more enjoyable. 
(1) The performance results are based 
on representative products from the 
product portfolio evaluated against 
comparable Colgate products across 
seven impact areas to characterize 
likely improvement in the sustainability 
profile, based on review of quantitative 
and qualitative data.
At a Glance 
17.3 Billion
Worldwide sales 2014
58.5%
Gross profit                  
margin 2014
72%
Improved sustainability 
profile in 72% of              
new products(1) 
40%
Approximately 40% of our 
packaging materials by 
weight globally come from 
recycled sources
80%
Over 80% of our pulp 
and paper is certified 
or is in the process of 
being certified as being 
sourced from responsibly              
managed forests 31 of 80
Performance
32 of 80
Performance
Financial Strength
For the full year 2014, worldwide net sales were $17 ,277 million. Global unit volume 
grew 3 percent, pricing increased 2 percent and foreign exchange was negative 6 percent. Our leading global market shares in toothpaste and manual toothbrushes remained strong and our global market share in mouthwash grew.
In 2014, Forbes 
named Colgate one 
of the World’s Most 
Valuable Brands, Most 
Innovative Companies 
and 25 Most Reputable 
Companies.Additional 2014 highlights 
can be found in Colgate’s 
2014 Annual Report. 
(1) All per-share amounts have been restated for the 201 3 two-for-one stock split.
(2) 2013—201 4 exclude charges related to the 201 2 Restructuring Program. 201 2 excludes costs 
related to the sale of land in Mexico. 2011 excludes costs associated with business realignment and 
other cost-saving initiatives. A complete reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on Colgate’s 
web site.
(3) 2013—201 4 exclude charges related to the 201 2 Restructuring Program, Venezuela remeasurement 
charges and certain other 201 3—201 4 items. 201 2 excludes charges related to the 201 2 Restructuring 
Program and certain other 201 2 items. 2011 excludes costs associated with business realignment 
and other cost-saving initiatives and certain other 2011 items. 201 0 excludes a charge related to 
the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela and certain other 201 0 items. A complete 
reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP), 
including a description of such items, is available on page 79.
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’102.93(3)2.84(3)
2.68(3)
2.51(3)
2.36 2.382.572.472.42(3)
2.16’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’104.2(3)4.1(3)4.0(3)3.9(3)
3.6 3.63.9 3.83.8(3)
3.5’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’1017.3 17.4
17.1
16.7
15.6
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’101.421.331.221.14
1.02
56.0057.2558.5059.7561.00
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’101.81.9
1.8
1.7 1.7
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’1058.7(2) 58.8(2)
58.3(2)
57.6(2)58.5 58.6
58.1
57.359.1Net Sales ($ billions)
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’102.93(3)2.84(3)
2.68(3)
2.51(3)
2.36 2.382.572.472.42(3)
2.16’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’104.2(3)4.1(3)4.0(3)3.9(3)
3.6 3.63.9 3.83.8(3)
3.5’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’1017.3 17.4
17.1
16.7
15.6
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’101.421.331.221.14
1.02
56.0057.2558.5059.7561.00
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’101.81.9
1.8
1.7 1.7
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’1058.7(2) 58.8(2)
58.3(2)
57.6(2)58.5 58.6
58.1
57.359.1Dividends Paid(1) ($ per share)
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’102.93(3)2.84(3)
2.68(3)
2.51(3)
2.36 2.382.572.472.42(3)
2.16’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’104.2(3)4.1(3)4.0(3)3.9(3)
3.6 3.63.9 3.83.8(3)
3.5’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’1017.3 17.4
17.1
16.7
15.6
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’101.421.331.221.14
1.02
56.0057.2558.5059.7561.00
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’101.81.9
1.8
1.7 1.7
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’1058.7(2) 58.8(2)
58.3(2)
57.6(2)58.5 58.6
58.1
57.359.1Gross Profit Margin And Additional 
Information(2) (% of sales)
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’102.93(3)2.84(3)
2.68(3)
2.51(3)
2.36 2.382.572.472.42(3)
2.16’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’104.2(3)4.1(3)4.0(3)3.9(3)
3.6 3.63.9 3.83.8(3)
3.5’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’1017.3 17.4
17.1
16.7
15.6
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’101.421.331.221.14
1.02
56.0057.2558.5059.7561.00
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’101.81.9
1.8
1.7 1.7
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’1058.7(2) 58.8(2)
58.3(2)
57.6(2)58.5 58.6
58.1
57.359.1
Operating Profit And Additional  
Information(3) ($ billions)
The Colgate brand 
was ranked in 2014 by 
Interbrand as one of the 
Best Global Brands.
Colgate’s          
Governance      
Principles
Colgate’s Governance 
Principles support our 
continuing financial 
success. See the 
Governance section of 
Colgate’s web site at 
ColgatePalmolive.com 
for more information.33 of 80
Performance
Colgate France launched 
Paic Integral 5 hand 
dishwashing detergent, 
maximizing value to the 
consumer by offering five 
key benefits, providing up 
to more than 5,000 plates 
washed per bottle. 
Stronger consumer engagement begins with better insights. We are obtaining deeper and more meaningful consumer 
insights and using them to strengthen product development, packaging and the communications we deliver through our 
integrated marketing campaigns.Engaging to Build Our Brands with Consumers
 W e listen to consumers both as we develop products and when they are put on 
the shelves. Over 1,000 studies are conducted annually around the world to hear from 
consumers before our products are sold. We have built brand loyalty by maintaining a deep understanding of local tastes and habits across categories. Colgate investigates key consumer insights, unmet consumer needs and opportunities for performance improvement in existing products.
 W e also listen to consumer feedback on our products. Colgate’s Consumer Affairs 
Departments manage consumer relations around the world, covering 95 percent of Colgate’s business. Highly-skilled consumer representatives respond to consumer complaints, inquiries and compliments through multiple channels of communication. Colgate uses robust Quality Control and Quality Assurance programs to ensure our consumer satisfaction policy is followed and provides continuous feedback to improve our service delivery. In addition, we regularly monitor key performance indicators for service in several regions around the world, specifically for phone interactions, striving for 100 percent satisfaction. In our 2014 surveys, over 90 percent of consumers who called us in North America were “satisfied” or “very satisfied” with our service. Consumer-driven Innovation
Every day, people around the world use Colgate products to care for themselves, their families and their pets. Colgate delights shoppers with innovative products that meet their needs, exceed their expectations and add value to their lives. Colgate’s nine consumer innovation centers, situated close to consumers in different parts of the world, are focused on developing insight-driven innovation. 34 of 80
Performance
Product Sustainability at Colgate
Product sustainability at Colgate means a continued 
commitment to safe, high-quality products that consumers can trust. Colgate’s robust Research and Development program is designed to provide safe and effective products with superior performance. 
 In the spirit of the Colgate value of Continuous 
Improvement, we are also striving for an improved sustainability profile across our portfolio. We have taken small steps to improve products around the world, improving the sustainability profile in 72 percent of new products in 2014 (see page 37). We also recognize that consumers are increasingly interested in products with a sustainable or natural brand promise, and we provide products to meet this expectation. For example, our Tom’s of Maine business provides natural products created with a defined Stewardship Model for natural, sustainable and responsible product development and ingredient sourcing. 
 Collaborative teams acr oss the Colgate world are 
coming together to develop products with an improved sustainability profile that continue to meet and exceed consumer expectations. As part of our 2011 to 2015 and 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategies, we have committed to increase the sustainability profile in all new products we produce and in the balance of our portfolio. We are embedding this goal across all categories. Each global category—Oral Care, Home Care, Personal Care and Hill’s Pet Nutrition—has specific goals built into the Technology Category Strategies. In some cases these are cross-category. For example, our Home Care category is working to offer concentrated products, improve ingredient biodegradability, engage with suppliers on green chemistry and continue to expand the portfolio of products that help consumers use less water. The Personal Care category is formulating products with an improved ingredient sustainability profile and exploring products that allow consumers to use less water. Within the Oral Care category, we have goals to evaluate novel materials, to commit resources to enable breakthrough innovation in oral care packaging and to remove PVC from toothbrush packaging. 
 Colgate is also working to further integrate 
sustainability into our product development and packaging design processes. Marketers are now prompted to include sustainability at the idea generation stage of the product development process, using Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard (see page 37) as a guide. New requirements have also been added to our “technology transfer” process for new products or process changes. At the Early Research, Product Development and Implementation and Support stages of product development, scientists and engineers are now asked to describe aspects of sustainability considered for the new project, using Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard. At later stages, projects are identified for the Product Sustainability Scorecard review process. 
Our Tom’s of Maine business provides natural products created with a defined Stewardship Model for natural, 
sustainable and responsible product development and ingredient sourcing.35 of 80
Performance
Product Safety and Quality
The decisions we make on ingredients are based on a thorough evaluation of the 
latest scientific evidence. When we choose an ingredient—whether to contribute to the performance of a product or to keep it safe against microorganisms—it is first prescreened by a team of Colgate scientists. Every ingredient is assessed alone and within a formula to ensure that nothing unexpected will occur. Our ingredient review assesses not just what happens in our laboratories, but also across a range of real-world conditions—during manufacturing, in transportation, at the store, in consumers’ homes and after consumer use.
 W e continuously monitor and evaluate the safety of our ingredients, and we 
actively engage with outside experts and resources to understand emerging science and deepen our knowledge. We seek the facts so that we can make the right decisions. Where we see opportunities regarding ingredients that are raising consumer questions, we substitute with other safe ingredients that provide the same or better benefits without sacrificing quality. Through this ongoing effort, we no longer use, or are on our way to eliminating, some of the ingredients currently raising consumer questions.
Ingredient Highlights
n W e comply with all aspects of the European Union’s REACH regulation 
(Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances). Currently, Colgate does not use any chemicals in its products classified as Substances of Very High Concern by REACH. 
n W e disclose in the U.S. and Canada the ingredients in our products according 
to the “Consumer Product Ingredient Communication Initiative” (CPICI) of the American Cleaning Institute, the Consumer Specialty Products Association and  the Canadian Consumer Specialty Products Association. Irish Spring Gear 
Bodywash in North 
America has an 
improved ingredient 
sustainability profile 
and contains no 
parabens. The label also 
encourages consumers 
to “Save Water” and 
provides a link to 
Colgate.com/SaveWater 
for water saving tips. 
In 2013, Colgate made commitments 
to eliminate formaldehyde donors, parabens, phthalates and microplastics from our products over the next two years. As of January 2015, Colgate has eliminated phthalates and microplastics from all products and expects to eliminate formaldehyde donors and parabens from all products by the end of 2015. See our Policy on Ingredient Safety for more information. Ingredient Safety Policy
36 of 80
Performance
Colgate continues our commitment to finding and using alternative testing methods through support and involvement with 
the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing (EPAA) and the Institute for In Vitro Sciences (IIVS). 
We actively share our work to reduce animal use and develop alternatives, so that this information can help others in their 
search for ways to minimize animal use.Partnering to Develop AlternativesProduct Safety Testing
Colgate has a long-standing worldwide policy to 
minimize and to ultimately eliminate animal testing for all consumer products. Central to this commitment are our 30-year-long efforts to encourage the development of alternatives that are scientifically valid and can be accepted by safety regulators. We are a leader in promoting, encouraging and participating in the development, validation and acceptance of alternative non-animal testing methods worldwide, investing over $1 million annually on research with non-animal alternatives. We also work closely with worldwide regulatory agencies to examine how non-animal tests can be incorporated into their safety requirements for consumer products.  Globally , there are circumstances when regulatory 
agencies require animal testing. In such limited instances, the tests are conducted only at external testing facilities that meet both government standards and the rigorous requirements established by Colgate with input from animal welfare groups. We look forward to a day when all necessary safety studies can be performed without the use of animals and will continue to work to make that day come sooner. 
 Since 2011, Colgate has been r ecognized on the 
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) “Working for Regulatory Change” list to promote corporate activism in alternatives research. Colgate-Palmolive was the first company to meet PETA’s stringent requirements.37 of 80
Performance
Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard
In order to measure progress toward our 2015 goal to increase the sustainability 
profile in all new products we produce and in the balance of our portfolio, Colgate began evaluating new products using a Product Sustainability Scorecard in 2012. Colgate engaged Pure Strategies, a leading sustainability consultant to validate our Product Sustainability Scorecard and 2013 and 2014 results. Pure Strategies provided the following validation statement in regard to the Colgate Product Sustainability Scorecard: “Nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard could not be used to track progress on improving the sustainability profile of new products and the balance of their portfolio.” The scorecard rates products with 25 parameters across seven impact areas: Responsible Sourcing and Raw Materials, Energy and Greenhouse Gases, Waste, Water, Ingredient Profile, Packaging and Social Impact. We improved the sustainability profile in 72 percent of new products in 2014.
(1)Scorecard          
Validation
 Colgate engaged 
Pure Strategies to 
validate our Product 
Sustainability 
Scorecard.
Percent of New Products with Improved Sustainability Profile
2012
24%2013 
48%2014 
72%2015 Goal 
100%
We improved the sustainability profile in 72% of new products and the balance of our portfolio in 2014.(1)
(1)  The performance results are based on representative products from the product portfolio evaluated against comparable Colgate products across seven impact   
areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data. 38 of 80
Performance
2014 Product Highlights
 Suavitel Fast Dry fabric 
conditioner in the U.S. brings 
a unique technology that wicks away water from fabric to help clothes dry 30% faster,
(1) saving consumers 
time and energy.(2) 
A change to our Axion Dish Liquid formula in Latin America improved the ingredient sustainability profile and eliminated the use of a volatile organic compound (VOC). The change will also result in $1.6 million in annual savings for the company.
 The new ingr edient mix 
for Hill’s Science Plan dog food for adult large breeds in Europe reduced energy and greenhouse gas emissions associated with the production of  the ingredients.As part of a global initiative to remove alcohol from our mouthwash products, Colgate Optic White mouthwash in the South Pacific is alcohol free and contains no volatile organic compounds (VOCs).  Colgate Herbal Original toothpaste in Europe requires fewer changeovers in the manufacturing process, reducing energy and greenhouse gas emissions, water and waste.
(1) After 5 washes; tested on cotton and cotton-polyester swatches; vs. deter gent alone.
(2) Maximum energy reduction of 290 kwh/year based on standard size electric dryer, 416 
 seven-pound loads a year . Based on U.S. Department of Energy Conservation Standards. In Europe, Ajax All Usage Gel cleaner now delivers the same cleaning benefit as five different products. The formula is also concentrated, allowing less product per dose.
 Pr otex City Clean Shower 
Gel in Asia has an improved ingredient sustainability profile and no longer contains parabens.
39 of 80
Performance
 A supply change for Colgate Maximum Cavity Pr otection Plus Sugar Acid 
Neutralizer toothpaste for kids in Europe reduced energy use and greenhouse 
gas emissions associated with transport of a key ingredient. The product mass required per use was also reduced. The Maximum Cavity Protection toothpaste with Sugar Acid Neutralizer line of toothpaste also provides enhanced anticavity protection—r educing early tooth decay by half.
(1) Sard Wonder Pretreater Spray in the South Pacific has an improved ingredient sustainability profile and requires less energy to manufacture.2014 Product Highlights
Colgate continues to offer more sustainable product options, including Palmolive Antibacterial, with lactic acid; Palmolive 
eco+ automatic dishwasher detergent, which is phosphate free; Palmolive pure + clear, which has no heavy fragrances; 
the Sanex Zero% range, specifically developed to contain a reduced number of chemical ingredients; the Natura Verde line 
of Ajax, Palmolive, Softlan and Soupline in Europe, with natural ingredients and bottles containing recycled plastic; and Tom’s of Maine brand natural personal and oral care products, with naturally sourced or derived ingredients. Sustainability 
improvements build Colgate’s brand reputation and generate revenue. As just a portion of our sustainable portfolio, we esti -
mate sales from our refill and concentrated product offerings, as well as our Tom’s of Maine Brand products, Sanex Zero % 
products, Cold Power detergent line, Natura Verde line, and our fabric softeners with “fast dry” and “no rinse” technology to 
be nearly $775 million in 2014, with sales growth for some more sustainable offerings outpacing those of traditional brands. Building RevenueA more energy-efficient “batch-on-batch” 
manufacturing process was implemented for Palmolive Naturals Conditioner in Asia that reduced waste during manufacturing. The product also has an improved ingredient sustainability profile and no longer contains formaldehyde donors.
(1)  In a six month clinical study. Regular fluoride toothpaste reduced early decay by nearly one third (32 percent).40 of 80
Performance
Improving Raw Materials
Colgate is working with our supplier partners to improve the sustainability of our raw materials. We are exploring 
ways to implement green chemistry, move to renewable raw materials and improve our upstream carbon footprint.
Product Highlights  
Lactic acid, a green chemistry alternative, was added across our lines of Hill’s Pet Nutrition dry dog and cat food in North America as a more environmentally friendly option to improve product integrity. 
We improved the ingredient sustainability profile in Colgate Max White One Luminous, Colgate Max White One and Colgate Max White One Active in Europe, as well as Colgate Luminous White in Latin America and Colgate Optic White in Asia.  In Palmolive Naturals Altai Herbs Bar Soap in our Africa/Eurasia Division, we increased the use of materials with a lower carbon footprint. Tom’s of Maine now uses a USDA certified bio-based propylene glycol, which is made from renewable carbon content (vegetable oil) instead of petroleum in its deodorants, reducing greenhouses gases by up to 61% based on lifecycle analysis compared with petroleum-based counterparts.
41 of 80
Performance
Focus on Packaging
Colgate is committed to improving the sustainability profile of our packaging. Our 2011-
2015 goal is to increase the amount of recycled content in our packages by 20 percent vs. 2010, and we have surpassed our goal. Colgate’s packaging organization regularly evaluates materials and processes that can improve the sustainability profile of our packages.
Colgate’s packaging sustainability strategy centers around the following actions:
n Assessing the human health and envir onmental impact of our packaging via life 
cycle analysis, where appropriate
n Striving to design pr oducts for reuse, recyclability and materials reduction, while  
ensuring product integrity
n W orking to minimize the volume and weight of our packaging and using the 
minimum amount of packaging required to label and protect our products
n Utilizing r ecycled content
n Incr easing the recyclability of our packaging through design choices and innovation
n Expanding r efill package systems in product categories where feasible 
n Coding our packaging with r ecycling symbols where appropriate, supporting 
 efforts to educate consumers and supporting innovative efforts to  improve local 
recycling systems
 In 2014, Colgate set additional packaging tar gets for 2020. We committed 
to improve the recyclability of our packaging, committing resources to enable 
breakthrough innovation in Oral Care packaging. We have also committed to deliver 100 percent recyclable packaging in our Personal Care, Home Care and Hill’s Pet Nutrition categories. Additionally, we will increase the recycled content of our packaging to 50 percent. 
Packaging HighlightsRecycled Content
 Approximately 
40%  
of our packaging  
materials by weight 
globally come from 
recycled sources
n
Colgate’s 2020 goal 
is to increase 
recycled content to
50%
Policy on
No Deforestation
We are taking steps 
to optimize the use of 
wood fiber in packaging, 
assess the risk of 
controversial sources of 
pulp and paper in our 
supply chain and obtain 
external verification for 
the supply in high-priority 
countries. See page 68 
or Colgate’s Policy on 
No Deforestation for 
more information.
 Thr ough responsible 
packaging design, we improved the ratio of the weight of the package compared to the weight of the product for Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste in Asia.  
 A new bottle for our Ajax Bucket 
Dilutable Cleaner in Germany is made of up to 60% recycled material. The bottle is also lighter, with 30% less plastic. 
42 of 80
Performance
We recognize the importance of reducing waste at every stage of the product life cycle, including at the end-of-life of 
our products and packaging. See page 63 for more information on our programs to collect packaging waste and our 
commitment to work with stakeholders to drive continuous improvement in local recycling systems.Packaging End-of-Life A new bottle design 
for our line of 
Palmolive Naturals Shampoo in Asia reduces plastic per bottle by 13%.Packaging Highlights
Our Dynamo detergent packaging in Australia now uses a PET label liner that is 100% recyclable. Our 160 oz. Suavitel fabric conditioner bottle in North 
America is now lighter weight and produced in our own plant, saving carbon emissions associated with transport from a supplier. W e improved the ratio of 
the weight of the package compared to the weight of the product in the new elmex ProAction toothbrush in Asia, as well as reduced the weight of the toothbrush. 
In North America, we introduced Palmolive Dish Liquid with a “flip-top” cap. It is easy to open with one hand, clicks to close and doses just the right amount of liquid. It uses one piece of plastic instead of two, making it more efficient to manufacture and reducing plastic use. Plans are underway to expand the use of the flip-top cap in other geographies. 
We improved the ratio of the weight of the package compared to the weight of the product in the new Colgate 360 Charcoal LX toothbrush in Asia. 
 We eliminated the PVC label from our two-pack Suavitel fabric softener in Colombia.
43 of 80
Performance
Access and Affordability
Many people around the world do not have access to basic dental care and education. As a leading provider of oral care 
products, Colgate has the unique ability to address this major social issue and to improve the oral health of families around 
the world. In India, Colgate engages with rural shoppers by participating in the village haat, an outdoor weekly market 
which serves as the main congregation point in remote areas of the country. Colgate toothpaste is sold here in small, affordable sizes along with Colgate manual toothbrushes. These activities are increasing toothpaste consumption among 
the thousands of villagers who visit the haat regularly, building a vital oral health habit in these areas.
Engaging Shoppers in Remote VillagesProduct sustainability at Colgate also means a 
commitment to providing affordable product options in our portfolio. In emerging markets, Colgate makes products more affordable with smaller sizes, refill packs and value options. Colgate also works for strong penetration and wide distribution, so that more consumers have access to Colgate products. Offerings are customized to best reach consumers within their socioeconomic level, taking into account available household income and specific consumer needs. We track local purchasing power of low-income consumers in all emerging market countries to ensure affordability of our products. Colgate strategically balances our portfolio between base and premium tiers as appropriate for the region. 
 In some markets, building rural distribution is 
challenging. We are working to develop innovative models and distribution networks to reach more consumers. For example, a Colgate team in Cameroon recognized an opportunity to improve coverage and customer service levels in smaller towns by using branded motorcycles able to distribute large quantities of products in the retail environments. The new model increased deliveries per week by 500 percent and increased sales by 43 percent.
 Colgate has also established a 2020 goal “to have 
a positive impact by expanding access to affordable health and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities.” This will include continuing to commercialize affordable toothpaste and other health and wellness products and increasing access through expanded distribution and community programs. Colgate people are working to set plans and goals for this commitment. 44 of 80
Performance
In Mexico, Colgate 
partnered with Chedraui 
stores on an in-store 
campaign to remind 
consumers how much 
water they could save 
by turning off the tap. 
n Colgate collaborated with Target in the U.S. to make a 
donation to the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital’s 
Target House with sales of an exclusive children’s 
toothpaste and toothbrush, as well as Softsoap liquid 
hand soap and Palmolive dish liquid. 
n Colgate partners with retail stores around the world such 
as Walgreens, Carrefour, Walmart, Coles and Rossman 
to promote oral health through our “Bright Smiles, Bright 
Futures” program and other oral health programs.
n In the U.S., Walmart has featured Colgate and 
our products in the launch of the online Walmart 
Sustainability Leaders shop. The shop on Walmart.com 
features more than 10,000 items made by companies 
identified as leaders in a product category based on the   W almart Sustainability Index. Colgate products from 
Softsoap brand hand soap to Palmolive dish detergent 
are available in the online shop. 
n In Brazil, Colgate has partnered with Walmart on three successful “End-to-End” projects to improve 
sustainability across a product’s value chain. For 
example, making changes to a shopper pack of 
toothpaste and soap reduced greenhouse gas 
emissions, plastic and fuel use.
n Colgate partnered with Coles Supermarket in Australia to promote oral health education with the “Bright Smiles, 
Bright Futures” program in stores, helping to increase 
sales of Colgate children’s oral care products in 2014.HighlightsPartnering with Customers
Colgate partners with hundreds of thousands of retail stores, large and small, to sell 
our products around the world. Treating all retail customers with fairness and integrity is a priority. Colgate engages its customers worldwide by sharing unique shopper insights, providing innovative in-store marketing communications and merchandising techniques and developing and executing joint business planning initiatives. These activities ensure the right product assortment at each location and help to make shopping a consumer-friendly, enjoyable experience that drives increased sales for both Colgate and the retailer.
 T o ensure continued success, Colgate tracks retailer satisfaction in 20 of our 
largest subsidiaries every two years. The Company participates in a widely-used industry standard syndicated survey run by the Advantage Group. The objective is to measure our Customer Engagement with the goal of strengthening our performance across key markets. In 2014, Colgate was ranked as the No. 1 manufacturer in six separate countries. Colgate was also ranked in the top one-third of all manufacturers in countries representing 93 percent of the business. Additionally, Colgate participates in a program to obtain feedback from six major global retailers. Results are analyzed at a customer, country, region and global level and are used to identify global trends, providing key input to shaping the direction of the company’s overall customer engagement strategy. In 2014, Colgate was ranked No. 3 out of 19 industry-leading “Fast Moving Consumer Goods Manufacturers” for the third year in a row.
 Colgate also partners with key customers to advance our mutual sustainability 
goals. We often partner to engage consumers with programs such as our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” oral health education program, Operation Smile and Terracycle. We also regularly report to several retailers through product stewardship surveys.
45 of 80
Performance
n Colgate was one of 25 American Cleaning Institute (ACI) 
member companies to complete the requirements for 
ACI’s first year of the Charter for Sustainable Cleaning. 
Companies who sign-up for the Charter must formally 
commit to the ACI Principles for Sustainability, participate 
in ACI’s Sustainability Metrics Program and work toward 
implementing a set of Essential Sustainability Procedures 
and Activities (SPAs).
n Colgate is also committed to the European International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance 
Product’s (AISE) Charter for Sustainable Cleaning.
n Colgate is an active member of the Home and Personal 
Care Sector of The Sustainability Consortium, which is 
committed to improving product sustainability through 
the development of a standardized Sustainability 
Measurement and Reporting System. 
n Colgate is a member of the Forum for the Future 
Beauty and Personal Care Working Group, an industry 
collaboration to improve sustainability in the beauty and 
personal care sector. 
n As a member of the Grocery Manufacturers Association, Colgate is contributing to the development of the 
Information Transparency Initiative (ITI), driving progress 
 to deliver pr oduct information to consumers effectively 
and efficiently. 
n Hill’s Pet Nutrition is a member of the Pet Food 
Sustainability Working Group, a collaboration to align 
 on sustainability principles for the pet food industry . 
n Colgate joined with other companies in 2011 to found the American Institute for Packaging and the Environment 
(AMERIPEN), which is focused on coordinating the 
industry’s environmental packaging efforts.
n Colgate has recently become a member of The Forest Trust (TFT) to help us develop and implement strategies 
 to meet our palm traceability commitment.n Colgate is a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), which is working on solutions for the 
 use and gr owth of sustainable palm oil.
n Colgate is a member of the Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS), an internationally recognized forum working to develop and promote a standard of sustainability for the production, processing, trading and use of soy.
n Colgate is a member of AIM-PROGRESS, a global industry forum to promote responsible sourcing practices 
and sustainable production systems. It is a global initiative 
supported and sponsored by the European Brands 
Association in Europe and the Grocery Manufacturers 
Association in North America.
n Colgate continues our commitment to finding and using alternatives to animal testing through support and 
involvement with the European Partnership for Alternative 
Approaches to Animal Testing (EPAA) and the Institute for 
In Vitro Sciences (IIVS). 
n Colgate is an active member of the Society of Toxicology 
(SOT). SOT is committed to creating a safer and healthier 
world by advancing the science of toxicology. In addition 
to supporting these broad objectives of SOT, Colgate also 
supports the Society specifically in the areas of research 
and education in the field of alternatives to animal testing. 
This support funds education and research for students 
and postdoctoral fellows and then makes grants available 
to in-career researchers to advance the development of 
non-animal methods for research and testing. 
n Colgate is a Global Partner in the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC). Colgate supports 
SETAC’s mission to develop principles and practices 
for protection, enhancement and management of the 
environment by providing a forum where professionals can 
exchange ideas and discuss environmental challenges, 
regulations, research and development and environmental 
education.Product Sustainability Partnerships 
Colgate partners with industry groups, non-governmental organizations and research groups around the world to 
meet our product sustainability goals and to share insights to collectively work towards more sustainable product offerings. Below are some highlights.Operating in today’s world requires an enhanced focus on conserving earth’s finite resources, 
addressing climate change and maintaining the well-being of our planet for generations to 
come. Colgate’s planet-related commitments cover the environmental issues material to the Company, our energy use, carbon emissions, water use and waste generation, as well as our 
(1) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor.
At a Glance 
19.7%  
reduction in greenhouse 
gas intensity and  
19.1% reduction in  
energy intensity in  
2014 vs. 2005(1)
33%
reduction in  
water use per ton  
 of product manufactured 
in 2014 vs. 2005(1) 
22%
reduction in  
waste sent to landfill  
per ton of product 
manufactured vs. 2010(1)
40%
Approximately 40% of our 
packaging materials by 
weight globally come from 
recycled sources
65%
of our manufacturing 
facilities have achieved 
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 
Challenge for Industry 
Recognition
46 of 80
Planet9
LEED-certified  
facilities and  
over 10 additional LEED 
projects underway
52%
of suppliers responding  
to CDP Supply Chain 
Survey have set an  
energy reduction target 
80%
Over 80% of  
our pulp and paper  
is certified or is in  
the process of  
being certified as being 
sourced from responsibly 
managed forests 
999 Million 
Promoted water
conservation awareness
to an estimated 999 
million people on our 
packaging, in retail stores, 
and through our “Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures” 
program since 2013
100%
of palm oil and palm  
kernel oil purchases 
covered by GreenPalm 
certificates or by  
the purchase of  
certified physical oils
“LEED” and related logos are trademarks owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and are used with permission.commitment to no deforestation. We are also committed to sustainably built and run facilities. 
We are making progress in each of our planet goals and working with partners and consumers to make “Planet” a priority.
47 of 80
Planet48 of 80
Planet
Climate and Energy
We believe businesses have a vital role to play in miti-
gating climate change, and we are committed to contin-uously improving our greenhouse gas governance and performance around this challenge. Through reducing our energy use, exploring renewable energy options and managing carbon emissions in our supply chain, we are making strides to reduce our carbon footprint.
 As part of our strategy to track and r educe green -
house gas emissions, Colgate tracks direct and indirect CO2 emissions, as well as direct nitrous oxide emis-
sions, sulfur hexafluoride emissions, HFC emissions and PFC emissions. Direct or Scope 1 emissions are from sources that are owned by Colgate. Indirect or Scope 2 emissions result from our purchase of electricity, heat or steam produced by other entities. Colgate is also working to track our Scope 3 emissions from upstream production and supply, as well as downstream distribu-tion and consumer use. 
Colgate’s Carbon Footprint
l  Direct Emissions / Scope 1
l  Indirect Emissions / Scope 2 
l  Other Emissions / Scope 3Colgate Factory Emissions and Facility 
On-site Fuel Usage
Purchased Electricity for Colgate Operations
Purchased & 
Capital Goods
Fuel/Energy Activities
Transportation & DistributionBusiness Travel & Commuting
Leased Assets
Product Use & End of Life49 of 80
Planet
We have avoided  
CO2 emissions  
equivalent to removing 
approximately  
180,000 passenger  
cars from the 
road for one year  
since 2005. 
Colgate’s 2015 goal is to reduce both the energy consumption and carbon emissions 
intensity associated with the manufacture of our products by 20 percent vs. 2005. 
We have nearly reached our goal, with a 19.1 percent reduction in energy and a 19.7 percent reduction in carbon emissions intensity in 2014 vs. 2005.
(1)
2005 to 2014 Manufacturing Carbon Emissions and Energy Intensity
Our Climate Change Commitment
In 2014, Colgate took the next step on our carbon reduction journey. As part of our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy, Colgate has committed to reduce carbon emissions on an absolute basis by 25 percent compared to 2002, with a longer term goal of a 50 percent absolute reduction compared to 2002. Colgate worked with Walden Asset Management to help shape our strategy. Our targets are science-based and in line with the CDP and World Wildlife Fund report, The 3% Solution, of which Colgate was a sponsor. The report calls upon U.S. companies to together reduce annual emissions from 2010 levels by 1.2 billion metric tons by 2020. In further support of a science-based target, Colgate has also joined in the CDP and We Mean Business Coalition’s “Road to Paris 2015” commitments, publicly committing to adopt a science-based greenhouse gas emissions reduction target.
 Our goal will allow us to play our part in limiting global warming to 2°C, as r ecommended by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. As part of our strategy to achieve the 25 percent absolute reduction, Colgate has also committed to reduce our manufacturing energy intensity by one-third compared to 2002 and to promote the use of renewable energy.0.30.40.5
100150200
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
0.30.40.5
100150200
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 CO2 Intensity Energy Use IntensityCO2 Intensity (kgCO2 / ton of product)Energy Use Intensity (MWh / ton of product) 
(1) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor.50 of 80
Planet
Colgate named a  
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 
Partner of the Year  
for the 5th year  
in a row and 65%  
of our manufacturing 
facilities have  
achieved U.S. EPA 
ENERGY STAR  
Challenge for Industry 
recognition. 2015Improving Eco-Efficiency 
Colgate has a long-standing energy-reduction program that has brought us reductions 
in greenhouse gas emissions and energy use intensity, as well as financial savings for over a decade. Our Global Energy Reduction Team made up of environmental professionals, engineers, site energy coordinators and facility leaders works together to identify and implement energy-saving opportunities and projects at our plants and share best practices around the globe. All facilities work to complete the Colgate “Top 10 Energy Actions,” which focus on the most practical and impactful energy savings activities such as energy inspections, annual energy assessments and sub-metering plans, as well as guidance for monitoring use of motors, compressed air, lighting and factory downtime. Colgate also seeks to invest at least 5 percent of our annual manufacturing capital expenditure budget in “planet-related” projects—“5% for the Planet.” A minimum of 2 percent of the budget is targeted specifically toward energy reduction projects. Another key energy-reduction driver for Colgate is the Energy Treasure Hunt program, conducted each year at multiple Colgate sites. Colgate’s energy efficiency efforts have not only reduced our greenhouse gas intensity, but also avoided over $400 million in energy costs for the Company since 2003.
2014 Highlights
n Emporia, Kansas, U.S.
 The drying pr ocess in making Hill’s Pet Nutrition dry pet food accounts for a significant portion of our 
Emporia, Kansas plant’s total energy use. With better relative humidity controls, metering and an improved control system, the plant is now able to efficiently control its drying process. The changes are estimated to provide a 10 percent reduction in natural gas usage and a 30 percent reduction in electricity consumption during the drying process. Colgate is working to implement these unique control improvements in all of our pet food driers globally. 
n Cali, Colombia
 By fixing air compr essor leaks, moving to LED lighting and upgrading steam traps, along with other 
changes, the Cali, Colombia plant is expected to reduce CO2 emissions by 690 metric tons and save over 
$130,000 annually.
n Anzio, Italy
 By r ecovering heat and reducing wasted water and energy, our Anzio, Italy facility is expected to reduce 
electricity use by 44 Megawatt-hours and CO2 emissions by 115 metric tons each year. These energy 
improvements along with a 290 Megawatt-hour/year photovoltaic system and on-site cogeneration allows the facility to operate with minimal grid electricity purchases for most of the year.
n Bangpakong, Thailand
 Thr ee energy reduction projects at the Bangpakong, Thailand plant to improve and upgrade cooling, 
heating and electrical systems are expected to reduce CO2 emissions by over 1,200 tons and provide an 
estimated savings of $225,000 per year.51 of 80
Planet
Energy Treasure Hunts
As part of our energy and greenhouse gas emissions reduction strategy and our U.S. 
EPA ENERGY STAR partnership, Colgate engages people on the ground through the Energy Treasure Hunt program. Over a three-day period, 30 to 50 participants visit all areas of a facility, searching for energy waste and brainstorming opportunities for improvement. The process challenges the status quo and generates new ideas for  energy and cost savings. Engaging employees through this program has helped to drive Colgate’s energy reduction culture. 
 Since the pr ogram’s launch in 2013, over 400 Colgate “treasure hunters” in ten 
countries have identified more than 1,000 energy-saving ideas and identified over $14 million in potential energy savings. Colgate has also rolled out a toolkit and website as another way to assist facilities in conducting their own regional and local Treasure Hunts. In 2015, we will continue to conduct both global and regional Treasure Hunts at sites around the world, focusing on the largest energy users.
Energy  
Treasure Hunts
400 Colgate
“treasure hunters”
n
10 countries
n
Over $14 million  
in potential  
energy savings52 of 80
Planet
Renewable Energy
We continue to evaluate renewable and alternative 
energy sources such as solar, wind, biomass, fuel cells, green power and cogeneration for feasibility and applicability in various locations worldwide. We have installed on-site renewable energy in the form of solar panels in Mexico and Italy and use solar water heating at several global sites. 
 In 2014, Colgate also joined the U.S. EP A’s Green 
Power Partnership, which encourages the voluntary use of green power to reduce the environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity use. Partners benefit from the use of green power, while supporting the development of renewable energy in the United States. Colgate purchased wind power from facilities in the electricity grids that serve its U.S. manufacturing plants. In 2014, Colgate purchased “Green-e certified” wind power renewable energy certificates generated from the Smoky Hills Wind Project Phase II in Kansas and from the Langdon Wind Farm in North Dakota. Colgate is also actively exploring renewable energy procurement options related to Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) as another way to support the development of additional wind and solar energy projects.
 For many years, Colgate has utilized an inter nal team 
of experts to evaluate our best global opportunities to implement cogeneration as a cost-effective, environmentally beneficial technology. Even though we are not an energy-intensive company, we have found several instances to install cogeneration systems as a way to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, lower costs and increase energy reliability around the world. 
Improving Refrigerants
Although Colgate is a minimal user of refrigerants, we are doing our part to responsibly manage the quantities of refrigerants we use over time. We are currently establishing a global refrigerant baseline inventory and developing a Refrigerant Management Standard and associated e-learning training tool, which will assist our global facilities in transitioning toward less GHG-intensive refrigerants.Colgate joined the  
U.S. EPA’s Green Power 
Partnership in 2014. 
In 2014, Colgate purchased wind power renewable 
energy certificates generated from Smoky Hills Wind 
Project Phase II in Kansas and from the Langdon Wind 
Farm in North Dakota.
53 of 80
Planet
50x
Upstream emissions including sourcing of materials and services
10x 
 Use and disposal of products1x 
 Emissions from Colgate manufacturing
3x
Downstream distribution of products
Illustration of the footprint of a consumer brushing his or her teeth with toothpaste and a 
toothbrush. Graphic shows a relative breakdown. “3x” is three times as large as “1x,” etc.Oral Care Carbon Footprint Estimated BreakdownValue Chain Footprint
We understand that the carbon footprint of most companies goes well beyond the 
boundaries of their own operations. As a way to explore and quantify Colgate’s end-to-end impacts, we undertook a comprehensive top-down carbon footprint exercise related to our global Oral Care value chain. Based on this innovative approach, we learned that approximately 95 percent of Colgate’s Oral Care carbon footprint is associated with areas both upstream and downstream of our own operations, such
as sourcing of raw and packaging materials, transportation of goods and consumer 
use and disposal of our products. Colgate has shared this practical approach with key partners such as the World Resources Institute and CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) to help collaboratively find simple ways to estimate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a company’s value chain. In 2015, Colgate will be expanding this leading work by developing our “Scope 3 Roadmap” aimed at targeting priority areas of highest carbon reduction opportunity.
 
Engaging Our Supply Chain 
Colgate has also participated in CDP’s Supply Chain Leadership Collaboration Project since its inception in 2008, increasing the scope of suppliers each year. Colgate currently collects information on suppliers’ carbon emissions and plans for reduction, as well as water use. Fifty-two percent of our suppliers responding to the CDP Supply Chain survey have set an energy reduction target.2015 Goal
70%
of suppliers responding 
to the CDP Supply 
Chain Partnership 
Survey will set an energy 
reduction target. So far, 
52% have set a target.
54 of 80
Planet
Moving Products to Consumers 
Colgate is working to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the 
shipping of our products, with a 2015 goal to reduce emissions by 20 percent per ton of production compared to 2010. Colgate’s Customer Service and Logistics team continues to implement sustainable and efficient logistics pr ojects ar
 ound the 
globe that have removed over 3,000 tons of carbon from our distribution network and deliver an estimated $3.5 million in annual savings. 
 Colgate’ s logistics planning serves to reduce costs, better serve our customers 
and reduce our carbon footprint. In developed markets where intermodal infrastructure is available, we are working to increase the amount of intermodal transportation — by which goods are shipped in an intermodal container or vehicle that can move through different modes of transportation, such as by sea and rail. When compared with using trucks and aircraft, intermodal transportation reduces greenhouse gas emissions and reduces cost. 
In emerging markets where intermodal infrastructure is less available, Colgate is 
utilizing ocean freight, efficient planning and load optimization. Colgate is increasing utilization of sea freight in Mexico, Brazil and Central America. Across all of our distribution networks, we are continuing to optimize load weight and routing. We are implementing backhauling (filling a vehicle with goods for the return trip to avoid driving with an empty truck) with select trade partners globally. The movement of our warehouse location in Mexico has allowed Colgate to deliver nearly 2,000 tons in carbon reduction and $1.3 million in cost savings annually, as well as remove over 1,400 trucks from the road. Colgate is working to increase our use of intermodal transportation in developed markets where infrastructure  
is available. In the U.S.,  
Colgate-Palmolive and 
Hill’s Pet Nutrition  
are U.S. EPA SmartWay 
Transport Partners.
55 of 80
Planet
Joint in  
Transportation 
Cooperative
 
In Europe, Colgate  
is a founding member of  
the Joint in 
Transportation 
Cooperative, an initiative 
to aggregate volumes 
and drive cost efficiency 
associated with  
intermodal shipping.  
In 2013, we established 
a shipping corridor  
to and from our facilities 
in Poland in  
partnership with other 
multinational companies, 
which we maintained  
in 2014; we are currently 
evaluating a possible 
expansion to a  
North/South corridor  
in 2015.
Further detail of our risk 
management strategies 
related to both climate 
change and water 
availability can be found 
in our response to CDP’s 
annual climate change 
and water surveys.In North America, we are beginning to move toward alternative fuels. Colgate has 
partnered with Saddle Creek Logistics Services to ship our products to certain retail locations in the Southeast U.S. using compressed natural gas tractors, a lower- carbon alternative. We also improved load-weight efficiency in 2014 through our  Excellence in Driving Growth through Efficiency (EDGE) program. 
 W e are making strides on carbon reduction in several geographies and we remain 
fully committed to reducing our impact in this area. North America has reduced logistics greenhouse gas emissions by 34 percent per ton of finished goods moved since 2010. Europe has reduced logistics greenhouse gas emissions by 23 percent per ton since 2008. However, given the limited intermodal infrastructure outside of the U.S. and Europe, as well as the expansion of our distribution in emerging markets like Africa and Indochina, we do not expect to achieve our goal of a 20 percent global reduction by 2015. 
 
Additional Emissions
“NOx”, or nitric oxide, and nitrogen dioxide emissions contribute to smog and acid rain, and lead to formation of ozone, which is a greenhouse gas. Colgate estimates NOx emissions from Colgate’s North American and European car fleets and from the trucks that deliver Hill’s Pet Nutrition products to retail customers in vehicles that are controlled by Colgate. We are working to increase the tracking of our global car fleet emissions to include other Divisions. 
 V olatile organic compounds (VOCs) also react to form ozone in the atmosphere. 
As Colgate is not a large emitter of VOCs from stationary sources, we have not histor -
ically tracked VOCs globally. Certain sites may track data as needed in accordance with local air permits. Colgate does report the VOC content and sales data for prod-ucts sold in the state of California to meet the California Air Resources Board require-ments. In addition, as part of our product sustainability scorecard, we compare the VOC content of new products to existing products in order to drive reductions. 
 Our telecommuting options in some locations ar e allowing for opportunities to  
reduce commuting-related emissions, along with a transition to smaller, more open and collaborative workspaces to reduce our building carbon footprint. We are planning to include the Scope 3 category of Employee Commuting as part of our overall carbon footprinting scope moving forward. 
Climate Resilience
Prudent environmental risk management is key to the well-being of the Company and the delivery of our strategic objectives. The increasing frequency and intensity of climatic events has increased the potential for manufacturing and supply chain disruption due to extreme weather events. A robust enterprise risk management program helps ensure continuity of supply of single-source, climate-sensitive raw materials, as well as business readiness in the event of supply, manufacturing or logistics disruption. Colgate tests our Business Readiness Plans annually. We also have a Hurricane Contingency Plan, which increases the inventory of surfactant feedstock (an ingredient in many personal and home care products) to prevent disruption in the event of a storm affecting the Gulf of Mexico.  
56 of 80
Planet
Making Every Drop of Water Count
Water is one of life’s most basic needs, and it is essential for business growth as 
well. Water is an ingredient in many Colgate products and is required in almost every phase of the product life cycle, from sourcing raw materials, to producing products, to consumer use of products. Clean water is also vital to the communities we serve and is an increasingly scarce resource in many regions of the world.
In general, Colgate’s water footprint consists of three main areas: the water used 
by our suppliers to produce the raw materials we purchase; the water used by our facilities to manufacture our products, as well as the water used in our products; and the water associated with the consumer use and disposal of our products. Traditionally, we have had a strong focus on reducing the water use in our own operations; however, by evaluating the entire value chain water footprint, we know that this only represents a small portion of the opportunity and are now developing new strategies to address water impacts beyond our operations.
Colgate’s Water Use
Colgate’s 2015 goal is to reduce the water consumed per unit of production in the manufacture of our products by 40 percent vs. 2005. We have reduced water use by over 33 percent as of 2014.
(1) Colgate’s new 2020 goal will take us even further—we 
will reduce our manufacturing water intensity by half compared to 2002 and find ways to replenish water withdrawn in highly-stressed regions. 
Colgate’s Water Footprint
Raw Material Supply
 Product Manufacture  Consumer Use and Disposal
 
(1) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor. 57 of 80
Planetcubic meters / ton of product1.001.50
.50cubic meters / ton of product
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 20052005 to 2014 Manufacturing Water Usage Intensity*
A Global Manufacturing Water Reduction Team leads efforts for delivering water 
reduction at our facilities through several programs. A standard Water Balance Tool helps sites to identify and measure complex water flows throughout our manufac-turing processes. This tool assists sites in prioritizing water reduction opportunities. Additionally, a new Colgate Water Stewardship Standard was launched in 2014 that broadens facility water programs to include water conservation, water risk assess-ments and technical engineering applications that help reduce water. Since water scarcity varies significantly by geographical region, our Water Stewardship Standard sets more stringent requirements for sites located in water-stressed areas. We have also launched Colgate’s “Top 10 Water Actions” program to identify and implement water reduction opportunities at our manufacturing facilities and technology center sites. These water actions include performing water conservation assessments, eval -
uating and implementing water reuse/reduction projects, and performing cleaning and sanitization more efficiently.
 Colgate continues to use the “T rue” Cost of Water Toolkit. Developed with Rutgers 
University Business School and its Supply Chain Management Program, the manu-facturing-based tool is designed to help sites quantify some of the hidden costs of water, such as pre-treatment, pumping, and wastewater treatment, thereby increasing both economic and environmental opportunities for reduction. With broad participa-tion from our global sites, we have found an average “true” cost of water that is 2.5 times more than the purchase cost alone. In 2014, the tool was enhanced to add the capability of calculating and reporting water recycling rates, allowing us to track our progress in the recycling and reuse of water. For example, at our Via Anchieta facility in Brazil, we recycle more than 37 percent of the wastewater treatment plant effluent for use as cooling water in the site’s cooling towers. At our Baddi facility in India, we recycle 38 percent of treated wastewater for use in restroom facilities, in irrigating the site’s green areas and as a raw water source for the plant’s utilities.
We have avoided 
enough water  
consumption to fill 
approximately 6,800 
Olympic-sized 
swimming pools  
since 2005.
* Excluding water in products58 of 80
Planet
As a way to assess the risks associated with global 
water issues and to work toward our goal to replenish the water we use in highly-stressed regions, Colgate has developed a strategy to assess, prioritize and act on  water stress and risk issues for our manufacturing sites in all geographies. For several years this has included both geographical and local evaluations of risks and  opportunities. Colgate uses the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct tool to assess a variety of water-related risks, including water stress, drought and flood. We are contributing to a WRI Working Paper on the Aqueduct tool, which will be available on the WRI Aqueduct web site. Colgate has also engaged experts to undertake targeted water risk assessments at selected locations in Mexico and India, and is hosting a student project in the MIT Sloan School of Management’s Action Learning Sustainability Lab to help develop a strategic approach to replenish water at our sites in highly-stressed regions. 
Engaging Suppliers
In 2014, we began requesting our “Tier I” suppliers, those who supply directly to Colgate, to participate in the CDP Water Supply Chain Survey to better under -
stand the risks and opportunities associated with water scarcity and other water-related issues. More than  75 percent of our key suppliers were surveyed, including our largest raw material suppliers and contract manufac-turers. Nearly two-thirds of responding suppliers have integrated water into their business strategy and 75 percent have integrated climate change into their busi -
ness strategy. In future years we will continue to refine and expand the data set, as our knowledge of source locations and water-sensitive materials increases. 
According to the World Resources Institute, 36 countries around the world face “extremely high” levels of water stress, 
leaving communities and businesses vulnerable to water scarcity.59 of 80
Planet
Reaching Consumers with Conservation Messaging
As many of our products require water for use, consumers have an important role to 
play in helping the environment as they use our products. Through actions such as turning off the tap while brushing their teeth and washing their hands, and taking shorter showers, much water can be conserved. In order to help consumers in this effort, Colgate committed to promote water conservation awareness among over two billion consumers by 2015 and all of our global consumers by 2020. We have started on the journey—promoting water conservation awareness to an estimated 999 million 
(1) people 
since 2013 through reminders on our packaging, through our oral health education and handwashing awareness programs and through digital and in-store engagement.
To encourage employees to conserve water, in 2014 Colgate invited our people at several locations in the U.S. and Brazil to share their own personal water conservation pledges by uploading photos along with their pledge to Colgate’s internal Save Water Community web page. Ideas ranged from fixing leaky faucets to collecting rainwater for gardening and making “mud pies.” More employees around the world are joining this Save Water Community in 2015. 
Beginning with North America, Colgate is rolling out our Save Water logo reminder on the back of the product package globally, with a link to our new web site Colgate.com/SaveWater. The site gives water saving tips and reminders for toothbrushing, handwashing, dishwashing and showering, and is available in ten languages. 
In Peru and the U.S., Colgate aired a television communication to drive home the message that brushing your teeth with the tap running can waste over 10 liters of water, which is more than many people in the world use in a month. The video has also been shared online in several countries with over 500,000 views. The video won a “Cannes Lion” award, a top global recognition for communications. 
n Colgate is working with The Natur e Conservancy on a new initiative to raise 
awareness of water issues in the U.S. and encourage consumers to conserve  this vital resource.
n In Mexico, Colgate partner ed with Chedraui stores on an in-store campaign to 
remind consumers how much water they could save by turning off the tap.
(1) Estimated by tracking the number of products with on-package water conservation reminders, our oral  
health and handwashing education programs that include water conservation messaging, the reach of in-
store water conservation campaigns and the reach of digital consumer campaigns, videos and web sites.60 of 80
Planet
Partnering with Water For People Providing Access to Water
One of Colgate’s 2011 to 2015 and 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy goals is to 
work with local and global organizations to help promote access to clean water. To accomplish our goal, we launched our partnership with Water For People in 2013 in Guatemala and India. In 2014, Colgate contributed to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program, helping them to reach over 100,000 people in 2014 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education in Guatemala, Peru and India. Colgate employees also visited schools in Guatemala that received clean water through the collaboration. Together they built playgrounds, planted gardens, painted murals and improved school facilities. Colgate volunteers also taught the “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” oral care education and handwashing programs to children and their families.
 Colgate will continue our partnership with W ater For People in 2015 to support 
their goal of 100 percent drinking water coverage in 30 districts across ten countries by 2018.
Colgate continues  
our sponsorship  
of “Play Pumps” in  
South Africa, which  
provide an opportunity  
for children to play  
and help villages obtain 
clean water from wells. 
Colgate now sponsors  
25 pumps. 
Colgate’s contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever 
program helped them to reach over 100,000 people in 2014 with water, 
sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education in Guatemala, 
Peru and India.
61 of 80
Planet
Reducing Waste
Colgate has a 2015 target to reduce waste sent to landfills from our operations by 
15 percent per unit of production compared to 2010. We have already exceeded the goal, reducing waste by 22 percent 
(1) in the past four years. As part of our 2015 
to 2020 Sustainability Strategy, we will go further—we will halve our manufacturing waste sent to landfill per ton of product compared to 2010, working toward our goal of “Zero Waste.”
 Colgate sites have been r educing, reusing and recycling waste for many years. 
We have developed automated Landfill Waste Scorecards for all of our sites to help increase the visibility and understanding of our waste reduction opportunities on a real-time basis. 
 Colgate’ s “Trash to Treasure” program encourages Colgate sites to find oppor -
tunities to reduce, reuse and recycle waste. Colgate’s Trash to Treasure Awards program provides awards to sites meeting our Zero Landfill Waste definition, as well recognizes those sites that send less than 5 percent of waste to landfills. Our Hill’s Etten-Leur, Netherlands and Hustopece, Czech Republic sites are the first to receive Colgate’s “Zero Waste to Landfill” award. In addition, five of our plants have received “Performance Leader” recognition for sending 5 percent or less of their waste to landfills.
Waste Progress Colgate’s “Zero” Landfill Waste Definition
No site byproducts are sent to a landfill, treatment facility or incineration without beneficial reuse or energy recovery for a full year.
n Excludes wastewater dischar ges (non-bulk), ash 
from waste-to-energy, and wastes required to be treated/landfilled by regulation
n A maximum of 20% (by weight) of a site’ s total 
waste may be sent to waste-to-energy
n Episodic construction and demolition wastes 
are appropriately managed and accounted for separatelyBureau Veritas has 
validated Colgate’s 
Zero Landfill Waste 
definition and the “Zero 
Waste to Landfill” status 
of Colgate’s Etten-
Leur, Netherlands and 
Hustopece, Czech 
Republic sites.
 W aste to Landfill Per   
 T on of Production  Recycle Rate
Year  (kg / ton)   (%)*
2010  10.3  60
2011  9.8  62
2012  9.4  63
2013  8.5  67
2014  8.0  72
Since 2010, reduced waste sent 
to landfill per ton of product by    22%(1) 
*Recycle Rate includes all recycling and beneficial reuses  
(1) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor.62 of 80
Planet
Our Hill’s Pet Nutrition manufacturing sites 
are leading the way in reducing landfill waste at Colgate; two sites have achieved the first “Zero Waste to Landfill” recognition. Hill’s sites around the world have implemented a sophisticated waste management program in partnership with waste vendors to optimize waste collection, segregation and disposal practices. Hill’s is sharing its waste reduction strategy across the organization to enable the same success at all of our facilities.
n In Cambridge, Ohio, Colgate partners with the Ohio-based r enewable energy 
company Quasar Energy Group to create energy from the wastewater from our soap manufacturing process. Since 2012, the partnership has diverted over 21,000 metric tons of waste and saved Colgate over $1 million. 
Recognizing that employee engagement is key to recycling, Colgate conducts Trash to Treasure events at our facilities to better understand the types of trash produced at the site and identify opportunities to reduce waste. Participants roll up their sleeves to dig through the garbage and identify what can be recycled or reused. The site then uses the findings to shape its waste reduction strategy. So far, Colgate has conducted Trash to Treasure events at facilities in Indiana, Texas and Ohio in the U.S., and in Labrador, Australia, with more events planned for 2015.
n At our V ia Anchieta plant in Brazil, waste laminate and plastic from toothpaste tubes 
and toothbrush packaging are collected by a local recycler and remade into roof tiles, furniture and office supplies. Via Anchieta has in turn used the roof tiles at the plant. 
63 of 80
Planet
Reducing Consumer Waste
We recognize the importance of reducing waste at 
every stage of the product life cycle, including at the end-of-life of our products and packaging. We have committed to improve the recyclability of our packaging, committing resources to enable breakthrough innovation in Oral Care packaging. We have also committed to deliver 100 percent recyclable packaging in our Personal Care, Home Care and Hill’s Pet Nutrition categories. See page 41 for more information on our packaging commitments and progress. 
 Building a cir cular economy in which industrial 
materials and packaging can be recycled and reused is an important part of a sustainable future. In addition to commitments for our own packaging, Colgate has committed to work with stakeholders to drive continuous improvement in local recycling systems. In 2014, we became one of the initial investors in the Closed Loop Fund to develop local recycling infrastructure. In the U.S., municipalities often lack access to the capital needed to invest in recycling programs and infrastructure. The Closed Loop fund will provide zero interest loans to municipalities and below market loans to private companies, with a goal to develop infrastructure and improve recycling rates. The aim is to invest over $100 million in the next five years and divert 27 million tons of waste from U.S. landfills. The fund will also seek to co-invest with local private and public investors to magnify its impact. 
 Colgate has also r ecently joined CEMPRE (Com -
promisso Empresarial para Reciclagem, or Business Commitment for Recycling) in Brazil as a member corporation. CEMPRE promotes the concept of inte-grated management of solid waste, promotes consumer recycling measures and implements education and awareness programs about the importance of the “3Rs,” reducing, reusing and recycling. CEMPRE has played a leading role in the successful waste management model in Brazil of integrating informal waste collectors and 
cooperatives into the recycling process.   
In 2014, we became one of the initial investors in the Closed Loop Fund to develop  
local recycling infrastructure. The Closed Loop fund will provide zero interest loans to  
municipalities and below market loans to private companies, with a goal to develop 
infrastructure and improve recycling rates.Building Recycling Infrastructure
64 of 80
Planet
Colgate partnered with Terracycle and retail partner Shoprite in the U.S. on the Recycled Playground Challenge. In-store 
displays drove awareness for recycling through Terracycle and publicized a contest for schools to win a playground made 
from recycled toothbrushes and toothpaste tubes. BelovED Community Charter School in New Jersey won the playground 
by earning the highest amount of “playground credits,” earned by recycling waste and through online voting. Recycled Playground Challenge
Colgate partners with eco-innovator Terracycle in the U.S., Mexico, Brazil, Australia, 
Argentina and New Zealand. Terracycle “upcycles” Colgate packaging collected at 
schools, stores and other locations into new and affordable eco-friendly products, while generating revenue for schools and charities. Terracycle has collected over two million pieces of waste through our programs since we launched our partnership in 2010. 65 of 80
Planet
Commitment to Sustainable Buildings
Colgate has nine Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED*) certified 
facilities around the world with over ten additional LEED construction projects underway in the U.S., Latin America, Asia and Europe. We have committed to LEED certification for all of Colgate’s new construction. LEED is an internationally recognized green building certification system, developed by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). The buildings reduce Colgate’s environmental impact, reduce the Company’s overall exposure to water and climate change related issues and offer a healthier, more comfortable work environment. 
 Colgate has been a member company of the USGBC since 2007. Colgate is  
also a Charter Member of the USGBC LEED Manufacturing User Group: Industrial Facilities, which collaboratively engages in the advancement of LEED and green building practices for the global manufacturing sector. In 2014, together the group shared strategies for manufacturing facilities to meet the next generation of LEED standards and provided input into the development of LEED requirements. Colgate has also contributed to the development of a state-of-the art tool to share LEED-certified building details. Further information about Colgate’s LEED-certified buildings is available on this “Green Building Information Gateway” at www.gbig.org.
Over 60% of Colgate 
toothbrushes are  
produced in LEED- 
certified facilities. 
The expansion of Colgate’s facility in Swidnica, Poland has received LEED-Gold certification. The original construction was 
certified LEED-Silver.LEED-Gold in Poland 
*“LEED” and related logos are trademarks owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and are used with permission.
66 of 80
Planet
Environmental Management 
It is Colgate’s worldwide policy to manufacture and 
market our products and operate our facilities so that we conform to, and often exceed, applicable environmental, health and safety rules and regulations. Our Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) standards, including the Management Systems Standard, define environmental performance expectations for Colgate facilities. All Colgate facilities have a fully implemented EOHS Management System, covering a wide range of categories, including energy, water and waste management. Colgate’s manufacturing environmental performance goals are included in our Global Supply Chain annual objectives, which are cascaded to site-level facility managers, energy managers and EOHS managers.  Colgate sites ar e expected to self-assess con -
formance with our Standards at an eighteen-month interval. Corporate audits are conducted every three to five years, and closure progress is reported quarterly and verification audits are conducted to provide closure assurance. Colgate has also launched a third-party Ethical Compliance Audit program for Colgate manufac-turing facilities, using the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol. The audit protocol investigates criteria covering freedom of association, child labor, hazards, health and safety, wages and benefits, work-ing hours, discrimination, as well as environmental and business ethics matters. A corrective action plan is in place to remedy any potential areas of concern.
Managing Risk 
Prudent environmental risk management is key to the well-being of the Company and the delivery of our stra-tegic objectives. We utilize an Enterprise Risk Manage-ment Program to identify, assess, prioritize and manage risks. The Enterprise Risk Management Committee is sponsored by the Chairman, President and CEO of the Company and includes representation from key internal business leaders. Risks are collectively identified across the organization and are classified within the Strategic, Financial, Operational, Information Technology, Legal & Compliance and Emerging Risk categories. Each risk category is assigned an owner who is also a member of the Enterprise Risk Management Committee and who is ultimately accountable for successfully managing the identified risk. 
 Colgate assesses risks associated with our own 
operations as well as our supply chain. Sustainability risks are addressed by the Enterprise Risk Management Committee. The Operations Risk Management Commit-tee, a subcommittee of the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, addresses risks related to material supply, responsible sourcing and environmental health and safety.  Colgate has a formal pr ocess to identify suppliers 
classified as critical or high risk, such as suppliers of unique technologies or those who supply a large volume to Colgate. We assess the risk of our supply base regarding quality and service through our Enhanced Supplier Management Program risk assessment tool. Additionally, through Colgate’s Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment Program, Colgate uses an industry-standard self-assessment questionnaire focused on labor practices, health and safety, environmental management and business practices to assess suppliers. When suppliers are assessed as high risk, we perform third-party audits of their facilities. We are including this assessment program as part of our supplier qualification process.
 Colgate also surveys our suppliers to identify risk 
associated with water and climatic events through the CDP Supply Chain program. Five of our responding suppliers reported detrimental impacts related to water in 2014, including flooding. Nearly two-thirds of responding suppliers have integrated water into their business strategy and 75 percent have integrated climate change into their business strategy. 67 of 80
Planet
Disclosure and Transparency
We recognize that transparency provides a window 
into the Company’s performance on sustainability. This sustainability report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (see page 75). We also disclose information on our sustain-ability progress to several organizations. Colgate has provided information to CDP for over a decade. We have responded to the Climate survey since 2004, the Forest survey since 2012 and the Water survey since 2010. Colgate joined the CDP Supply Chain service in 2012 to engage our suppliers. Colgate provides infor -
mation to RobecoSAM to inform the Dow Jones Sus-tainability Index rankings. We also provide information to inform the Newsweek Green Rankings and Corpo-rate Knights Capital’s Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations ranking. Colgate’s sustainability informa-tion is also available on the Bloomberg Terminal.
 Colgate also works with a variety of partners to meet 
our “Planet” goals. See page 71 for more information on Colgate’s partnerships.
Colgate sponsors teachers to attend the Key Issues Institute: Bringing Environmental Issues to the Classroom professional 
development program in Colorado, U.S., a program of the Keystone Science School. Teachers come from areas where 
Colgate has operations. The program gives teachers the skills to use innovative and engaging ideas and methods to 
investigate current environmental issues with their students. In 2014, Colgate sponsored five teachers from Kansas, Ohio and New Jersey who left with curriculum materials, lab equipment and a new professional network of support from fellow 
teachers and Key Issues staff.Community Engagement
68 of 80
Planet
Our Commitment to No Deforestation
In 2014, Colgate issued a Policy on No Deforestation to support a vision for a future 
without deforestation and pledging to mobilize resources to help achieve zero net deforestation by 2020. In 2015, we also joined in the CDP and We Mean Business Coalition’s “Road to Paris 2015” commitments, committing to remove commodity-driven deforestation from all supply chains by 2020. Given Colgate’s product mix and our formulas, our commitment is most relevant for four major forest commodities: pulp and paper; palm oil and derivatives; soy and soy oil; and beef tallow .
 Colgate’ s full policy is available on our web site at ColgatePalmolive.com/Sustainability. 
Below are highlights and updates on our progress. 
69 of 80
Planet
Pulp and Paper
Much of Colgate’s packaging material utilizes wood-  
derived or paper-based products. Over 80 percent of  
our pulp and paper is certified or is in the process of be-
ing certified as being sourced from responsibly managed forests. We have achieved our goal to increase recycled content by 20 percent by 2015 and have set additional packaging targets for 2020, including increasing the recycled content of our packaging to 50 percent (see page 41). Currently, approximately 40 percent of Col-gate’s packaging materials by weight globally come from recycled sources. We have also taken steps to ensure compliance with the U.S. Lacey Act requiring all product and disposable packaging to be comprised of legal-ly-sourced wood or other plant-based material.
 W e give preference for verification of pulp and 
paper supply to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification standards, but utilize other respected certification schemes as geography and availability necessitate. As part of this commitment, Colgate will continue our long-standing strategy to increase the use of recycled materials, as well as our efforts to optimize the use of other packaging materials.
Palm Oil, Palm Kernel Oil and Derivatives
Palm oil is one of the most widely traded vegetable oils in the world and is used in many food and household products. Over 85 percent of the world’s palm oil comes from Indonesia and Malaysia, where land is sometimes converted from forest to palm plantations, resulting in greenhouse gas emissions, impacts on biodiversity and social concerns. Colgate uses palm oil and its deriva-tives in some of our soap products, toothpastes, anti-perspirants, deodorants and household cleaners. 
 Since 2007, Colgate has been a member of the  
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), supporting development of more comprehensive standards to ensure palm oil is grown and harvested in a responsible and sustainable manner. Additionally, we continue to support a moratorium on further deforestation by palm oil producers and have communicated that position  
to our suppliers who have direct contact with the  
producers.   Colgate is committed to progressing both traceability 
and responsible/sustainable sourcing of palm oil in parallel; our work in each area is discussed below.
 W e have recently become a member of The Forest 
Trust (TFT) to help us develop and implement strategies to meet our palm traceability commitment. Based on an increased understanding of our upstream supply chain, we expect to: 
n Achieve traceability to the mill for palm oil and palm  
kernel oil (PKO) by early 2016 
n A chieve traceability to the plantation for a significant 
portion of our palm oil and PKO supply; however,  we do not expect to achieve full traceability to the plantation by year end due to complexities in our supply chain
 
In 2013, we took the interim step of purchasing Green-Palm Certificates to cover substantially all of our palm oil and PKO requirements, thus providing support to advance the production of sustainable palm oil in the marketplace. In 2014, we increased the purchase of certified physical oils, based on the mass balance or identity preserved standards, and covered the balance of our requirements for palm oil and PKO with Green-Palm certificates. 
We are committed to:
n W orking with suppliers and external expert 
organizations to identify potential social or 
environmental risk in our palm oil supply chain 
n W orking toward achieving full traceability of our palm 
oil supply chain back to the mill by early 2016 and to the plantation by 2020
n Pur chasing increasing volumes of physical Certified 
Sustainable Palm Oil and PKO each year, where feasible
n Pur chasing GreenPalm Certificates to cover the 
remaining percentage of our requirements, gradually phasing out the need for the purchase each year 70 of 80
Planet
Colgate is engaging with our suppliers and requesting 
that they provide traceability information back to the raw materials sources, and subsequently to commit to responsibly managed farms and plantations. We are also working to build a transparent global supply chain that meets the following criteria:
n No defor estation of High Carbon Stock (HCS) forest (1)
n No defor estation of High Conservation Value (HCV) 
areas (2)
n No use of fir e for land clearance
n No new development on peat lands, r egardless 
 of depth
n No exploitation of people or local communities (3)(4)
 See Colgate’ s Annual Communication of Progress 
on the RSPO web site for more information on Colgate’s palm oil progress.  
Soy
Soy, or soy oil, is an ingredient used in certain Colgate products. Colgate sources soy and soy oil from theUnited States and Brazil. 
 In 2014, Colgate joined and continues to support  
the Round Table on Responsible Soy. In addition, we support efforts such as the Soy Moratorium that help minimize deforestation from soy expansion and increase transparency in the soy sector. We are also committed to:
n Map our soy usage and geography of supply
n W ork with our suppliers in Brazil and any other high-
risk areas to assess the availability of soy that does not contribute to deforestation and will increase our purchases of soy from these sources 
n By 2017, pr ocure soy and soy derivatives that are 
not linked to deforestation, verifying this through independent third-party verification and monitoringTallow
Tallow is a key ingredient in bar soap production and is a cattle byproduct. Colgate sources tallow from suppliers in North America, Latin America and Europe. In Brazil, there are concerns that rising demand for beef as a food source is prompting farmers to clear parts of the Amazon rainforest for cattle ranching. Currently, we require Brazilian suppliers to certify that they are following the environmental and social requirements set forth by the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA). We are also working to minimize the amount of tallow purchased from reportedly high-risk areas. We will continue to work with our suppliers to minimize the amount of tallow purchased from high-risk areas with a goal of eliminating such purchases as soon as possible. Moving forward, we will:
n Collaborate with industry and stakeholder gr oups 
such as the Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef to work toward zero deforestation in this area
n By 2017, r equire all applicable suppliers to be in 
compliance with the “Minimum Criteria for Industrial Scale Cattle Operations in the Brazilian Amazon Biome” set in 2009 
(1) Forests as defined by the HCS Approach developed by GAR, Greenpeace and TFT 
(2) Areas as defined by the HCV Network Common Guidance 
(3) As guided by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, regulatory requirements and International Labor Organization standards 
(4) Provide respect to legal or customary land-tenure rights and the rights of indigenous and local communities by providing free and prior informed consent (FPIC)71 of 80
AIM-PROGRESS – Colgate is a member of AIM-PROGRESS, a global industry forum to 
promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. It is a global 
initiative supported and sponsored by the European Brands Association in Europe and the 
Grocery Manufacturers Association in North America.
Alliance for a Cavity-Free Future (ACFF) – As a founding sponsor of the Alliance for a Cavity-
Free Future (ACFF), Colgate has joined a worldwide group of experts seeking to promote 
integrated clinical and public health action in order to stop caries initiation and progression and 
to move towards a cavity-free future for all age groups.
American Cleaning Institute (ACI) – Colgate has signed on to the American Cleaning Institute’s 
Charter for Sustainable Cleaning, which requires companies to have systems in place for 
continual assessment, review and improvement of sustainability performance, including raw 
material selection, resource use and occupational health and safety, at every stage of the 
product lifecycle. We also participate in their sustainability metrics program.
American Dental Association (ADA) – Colgate partners with the American Dental Association 
Foundation each year to sponsor the “Give Kids A Smile®” program, providing oral health 
education and free preventive and restorative care to children from low-income families. Each 
year, approximately 350,000 underserved children benefit from more than 1,500 events thanks 
to the efforts of 40,000 or more annual volunteers.
American Institute for Packaging and the Environment (AMERIPEN) – Colgate joined with other 
companies in 2011 to found this organization, which is focused on coordinating the industry’s 
environmental packaging efforts.
CDP – Colgate has reported our carbon emissions to CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) 
since 2004. We now disclose data to CDP Climate Change, CDP Water and CDP Forests and 
survey our suppliers through CDP Supply Chain.
CEMPRE – Compromisso Empresarial para Reciclagem (Business Commitment for Recycling) 
– Colgate has recently joined CEMPRE in Brazil as a member corporation. CEMPRE promotes 
the concept of integrated management of solid waste, promotes consumer recycling measures 
and implements education and awareness programs about the importance of the “3Rs,” reducing, reusing and recycling program. 
Closed Loop Fund – In 2014, Colgate became one of the initial investors in the Closed 
Loop Fund to develop local recycling infrastructure. This fund will provide zero interest loans to municipalities and below market loans to private companies, with a goal to develop 
infrastructure and improve recycling rates. The aim is to invest $100 million in the next five 
years and divert 27 million tons of waste from U.S. landfills. 
Conference Board Chief EH&S Officers’ Council – Colgate participates in the Conference Board 
Chief EH&S Officers’ Council. Our membership enables peer-to-peer benchmarking of leading 
EH&S strategies, practices and processes.
Another important element of Colgate’s sustainability strategy is our use of external partnerships 
to complement our strong internal capability. Colgate has many such partnerships with a broad 
array of organizations, including suppliers, research institutions, universities, industry and non-
profit organizations. Here are just some of Colgate’s sustainability partners:Partnerships
72 of 80
Partnerships
Consumer Goods Forum –  Colgate’s Chairman, President and CEO is on the Board of Directors 
of the Consumer Goods Forum; we support its collective commitments related to sustainability 
and climate change  —including the ef fort to help achieve zero net deforestation by 2020.
Environmental Defense Fund Climate Corps – Colgate and Tom’s of Maine each hosted Climate 
Corps fellows in 2013 and 2014 to help identify energy and carbon reduction opportunities 
related to energy efficiency. Colgate will again host a fellow in 2015 focused on electric car 
charging options and fuel cell feasibility for our Global Technology Center in New Jersey.
The Forest Trust (TFT) – Colgate has recently become a member of The Forest Trust (TFT) to 
help us develop and implement strategies to meet our palm traceability commitment.
Global Child Dental Fund (GCDF) – Colgate is the founding and principal sponsor of this group, 
which builds on the achievements of the United Kingdom government-funded Global Child 
Dental Health Taskforce program. We established this group in partnership with the World 
Health Organization with the goal of eradicating dental cavities in children globally by 2026.
Grocery Manufacturers Association (GMA) – As a member of the Grocery Manufacturers 
Association, Colgate is contributing to the development of the Information Transparency 
Initiative (ITI), driving progress to deliver product information to consumers effectively and 
efficiently.
International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Products (AISE) – Colgate is 
a charter member of the AISE flagship initiative, the Charter for Sustainable Cleaning. The AISE 
Charter is a comprehensive program that ensures continual improvement in the sustainability of 
our home care products, covering production, design and consumption. 
National Dental Association (NDA) – Colgate’s commitment to improve children’s oral health in 
the community includes a long-term partnership with the National Dental Association (NDA), the 
world’s largest minority oral health association.
The Nature Conservancy – Colgate is working with The Nature Conservancy on a new initiative 
to raise awareness of water issues in the U.S. and encourage consumers to conserve this vital 
resource.
Red Cross – Colgate provides financial support to the Red Cross in the event of large scale 
disasters such as earthquakes, tornados and hurricanes. We also donate personal care 
products for those who have been displaced from their homes. Additionally, Colgate matches 
employee donations to the Red Cross through our Matching Gift Program.
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) – Colgate is a member of this group, which is 
working on solutions for the use and growth of sustainable palm oil.
Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) – Colgate is a member of the RTRS, an internationally 
recognized forum working to develop and promote a standard of sustainability for the 
production, processing, trading and use of soy.
Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) – Colgate is a Global Partner in 
the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry. Colgate supports SETAC’s mission 
to develop principles and practices for protection, enhancement and management of the 
environment by providing a forum where professionals can exchange ideas and discuss 
environmental challenges, regulations, research and development and environmental 
education.
73 of 80
Partnerships
Starlight Children’s Foundation – For more than 25 years, Colgate has been a sponsor of 
Starlight Children’s Foundation, a leading global charity that partners with experts to improve 
the life and health of kids and families around the world. Over the years, Colgate has contributed 
more than $11.6 million to Starlight programs. 
The Sustainability Consortium – Colgate is an active member of the Home and Personal Care 
Sector of the Sustainability Consortium, which is committed to improving product sustainability. 
Colgate is also on the Corporate Advisory Council of this group.
Terracycle – Over two million people around the world are collecting used Colgate packaging to 
be made into new products by Terracycle. 
United Way – Colgate partners with United Way on our Annual Giving Campaign for employees 
in several U.S. locations.
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR – Colgate is an active partner of the EPA’s industrial sector and has 
been named an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for five years in a row. Additionally, 65 
percent of Colgate’s manufacturing sites have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge  
for Industry recognition.
U.S. EPA GREEN POWER PARTNER – In 2014, Colgate joined the U.S. EPA’s Green Power 
Partnership, which encourages the voluntary use of green power to reduce the environmental 
impacts associated with conventional electricity use. Partners benefit from the use of green 
power, while supporting the development of renewable energy in the United States.
U.S. EPA SmartWay – In the U.S., Colgate-Palmolive and Hill’s Pet Nutrition are U.S. EPA 
SmartWay Transport Partners. The program helps the freight transportation sector improve supply chain efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) – Colgate has been a member company of the USGBC 
since 2007. Colgate is also a Charter Member of the USGBC LEED* Manufacturing User Group: 
Industrial Facilities, which actively engages in the advancement of green building practices for 
manufacturing sites.
Walden Asset Management – Colgate consulted with Walden Asset Management to develop our 
new climate change commitments and our 2015 to 2020 Strategy.Water For People – Colgate launched our partnership with Water For People in 2013. Colgate’s 
contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program helped them to reach over 
100,000 people in 2014 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education in 
Guatemala, Peru and India.
World Resources Institute (WRI) – Colgate has joined WRI’s Corporate Consultative Group to 
share knowledge and stay informed on key environmental issues. Colgate also uses the WRI 
Aqueduct tool to assess a variety of water-related risks in our operations, including water stress, 
drought and flood.
*“LEED” and related logos are trademarks owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and are used with permission.
2015
74 of 80
Key Performance Indicators
 People     2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014
 Appr oximate number of employees    35,800  34,700  36,000  36,600  38,100  39,200  38,600  37,700  37,400  37,700
 % Minority officials and 
 
 managers 
(U.S. EEOC data)
   24.6
 24.6
 24.9
 27.2
 27.2
 28.9
 32.11
 31.0
 31.0
 33.0
 % 
Minorities in workforce (U.S. EEOC data)
  
27.9
 
28.9
 28.6
 
29.5
 
29.0
 
28.8
 32.03
 
30.0
 30.0
 
31.0
 % W
omen officials and managers
   29.3
 30.6
 32.0
 32.9
 36.2
 36.6
 38.18
 33.0
 34.0
 35.0
 % W
omen in workforce
   34.0
 36.1
 37.0
 38.9
 40.7
 40.7
 39.37
 39.0
 39.0
 38.0
 T
otal recordable rate (1)   0.72  0.74  0.57  0.46  0.49  0.49  0.47  0.40  0.38  0.35
 Lost workday case rate (2)    0.19  0.23  0.19  0.12  0.12  0.12  0.11  0.08  0.10  0.10
 Safety notices of violation (3)    1  0  0  5  2  0  2  0  3  0
 Safety fines paid ($) (4)   300  0  0  16,899  7,800  0  4,032  0  250  0
 T
otal children reached through Colgate’s 
 “Bright Smiles, Bright Futur
es” program 
 since 
1991 (millions)
         650
 700
 750
 800
 Salaried and clerical people participating in 
 annual training and certification on 
 Code 
of Conduct (%)
          100
 100
 100
 At-risk suppliers who have under
gone a 
 r
esponsible sourcing self-assessment 
 and/or thir
d-party audit (%) 
          27
 46
 62
 
 Performance     2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014
 Global Sales ($MM)    11,397  12,238  13,790  15,330  15,327  15,564  16,734  17,085  17,420  17,277
 Global charitable contributions — 
 
 cash ($MM) (5)    7.329  7.059  8.307  9.678  20.941  17.809  17.60  32.0  23.58  23.43
 Global charitable contributions —
 
 in-kind ($MM) (6)    n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a  26.334  21.85  20.05  32.0  10.38  5.53
 Planet     2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014
 Ener gy use efficiency 
 (kWh x 1000/ton of pr
oduct) (7)   0.458  0.431  0.422  0.415  0.403  0.411  0.396  0.390  0.379  0.370
 
CO2 emissons (metric tons x 1000) (7)  699  693  689  660  637  664  662  651  655  637
 
CO2 emissions intensity (kg/ton of product)   152  142  139  136  133  136  132  129  126  122
 W
ater use efficiency (m3/ton of product)
  1.51
 1.33
 1.28
 1.22
 1.15
 1.09
 1.06
 1.06
 1.03
 1.01
 W
astewater Chemical Oxygen Demand
 
 (kg/ton of pr
oduct) (7)   3.01  3.04  2.93  2.68  2.63  2.94  2.77  2.83  2.76  2.72
 Envir
onmental Incidents (8)   1 2 2  2  2  1  3  0  0  0
 Envir
onmental Notices of Violation (9)  3 0 8  8  7  2  5  5  5  7
 Envir
onmental fines paid ($) (10)   0  0  26,200  9,057  1,000  0  50,094  1,065  38,582  3,600
 Certified palm oil (%) (11)          0  100  100
 Certified palm ker
nel oil (%) (11)          0  94  100  
     
 (1) The number of occupational injuries and illnesses that require medical treatment per 
 
 200,000 work-hours.
 (2) The number of occupational injuries and illnesses causing employees to be absent from 
 
 work per 200,000 work-hours.
 (3) A violation or citation issued by a governmental authority with jurisdiction.
 (4) Fines associated with Safety Notices of Violations (NOVs).
 (5) Cash contributions to charitable organizations, including cash contributions to the “Bright   
 
 Smiles, Bright Futur
es” (BSBF) program in Colgate’s 20 largest subsidiaries (by oral care 
  
  sales). 2013 data has been updated to r
eflect actual spend on BSBF . 2014 is reflective of 
  
  our latest BSBF estimate. (6) In-kind and product donations by Colgate to charitable organizations.
 (7) Data varies slightly fr om previous reporting due to boundary changes and updated 
 
 r
eporting methodology.
 (8) Represents site-related spills or accidental releases that reach a water body, groundwater
 
  or soils or affect a thir
d party. As of 2012, significant spills are reported, which are defined
 
 as any spills that ar
e included in our financial statement. 
 (9) An environmental violation or citation issued by a governmental authority with jurisdiction.
 (10)  Fines associated with Envir onmental Notices of Violations (NOVs).
 (11) Includes purchase of GreenPalm certificates.
Note that KPI table published in online report has been amended to disclose additional KPIs 
material to the Company. 75 of 80
This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.   
       
 GRI  Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report  Other
 Indicator
 Description
 Refer
ence or Direct Answer
 Refer
ence
 Specific Standar d Disclosures
 Strategy and Analysis   
 G4-1  Statement fr om the most senior  Message fr om Ian Cook (p3)      
   decision-maker of the or
ganization
 G4-2
 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities
 Thr
oughout Report
 A
nnual Report on Form 10-K
 Organizational Profile    
 G4-3  Name of the or ganization  Company Pr ofile (p4)  —
 G4-4
 Primary brands, pr
oducts, services
 Company Pr
ofile (p4)
 Annual Report o
n Form 10-K
 G4-5
 Headquarters location
 Company Pr
ofile (p4)
 —
 G4-6
 Country operations
 Company Pr
ofile (p4)
 A
nnual Report on Form 10-K
 G4-7
 Natur
e of ownership and legal form
 Company Pr
ofile (p4)
 A
nnual Report on Form 10-K
 G4-8
 Markets served
 Company Pr
ofile (p4)
 A
nnual Report on Form 10-K
 G4-9
 Scale of the r
eporting organization
 Company Pr
ofile (p4)
 A
nnual Report on Form 10-K
 G4-11
 Per
centage of total employees covered 
 
  by collective bar
gaining agreements
 Appr
oximately 47%*
 —
 G4-12
 Significant changes during the r
eporting period
  —
 A
nnual Report on Form 10-K
 G4-15
 Exter
nally developed charters, principles to which
 Partnerships (p71)
 —
 
  or
ganization subscribes or endorses
 G4-16
 Memberships of associations 
 Partnerships (p71)
 —
 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries    
 G4-17  Entities included in the or ganization’s consolidated  — Annual Report on Form 10-K
   financial statements or equivalent documentsGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
 * Represents proportion of non-salaried and clerical employees. 76 of 58
76 of 80
 GRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report  Other
 Indicator  Description  Refer ence or Direct Answer  Refer ence
 Stakeholder Engagement    
 G4-27  Key topics and concer ns raised through  Thr oughout Report  —
  stakeholder engagement and r esponse
 Report Profile    
 G4-28  Reporting period  About This Report  (p2) —
 G4-29  Date of most r ecent report  —  ColgatePalmolive.com/
    Sustainability 
 G4-30  Reporting cycle  — ColgatePalmolive.com/
    Sustainability 
 G4-31  Contact point for questions about r eport  csr@colpal.com  —
 Governance    
 G4-34  Gover nance structure  —  ColgatePalmolive.com -  
    Gover nance
 G4-38  Composition of highest gover nance body and committees  —  ColgatePalmolive.com -  
    Gover nance
 G4-39  Chairman as executive officer  — ColgatePalmolive.com -  
    Gover nance
 
 Ethics and Integrity
 G4-56  Or ganization’s values, principles, standards  Company Profile (p5) ;       
  and norms of behavior  People (p10)  
 
 Specific Standard Disclosures
 Economic
 Disclosur e on  Economic Performance, Market Pr esence,  Company Profile  (p5);  Annual Report on Form 10-K  
 Management  Pr ocurement Practices  People (p20) ;  
 Approach   Performance (p30)   
 EC1  Dir ect economic value generated and distributed  Company Profile  (p5);  Annual Report on Form 10-K
   Performance (p30)
 EC2  Financial implications, risks and opportunities  Planet (p55)  CDP Climate Change,   
  due to climate change  Planet (p66)  CDP Water
 EC3  Defined benefit plan obligations  —  Annual Report on Form 10-K
 EC4  Significant financial assistance r eceived from government  —  Annual Report on Form 10-KGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index77 of 58
77 of 80
 GRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report  Other
 Indicator  Description  Refer ence or Direct Answer  Refer ence
 Environmental
 Disclosur e on  Materials, Ener gy, Water, Biodiversity, Emissions,  Performance - Product  —
 Management  Effluents and W aste, Products and Services,  Sustainability (p34); 
 Appr oach  Compliance, T ransport, Overall  Planet (p46)   
 EN2  Per centage of materials used that are  Performance - Packaging  —
  r ecycled input materials  (p41)   
 EN3  Ener gy consumption within the organization  Planet - Climate and Energy  CDP Climate Change   
   (p48); Key Performance 
   Indicators  (p74)    
 EN4  Ener gy consumption outside of the organization  Planet - Climate and Energy  CDP Climate Change  
   (p48)
 EN5  Ener gy Intensity  Planet - Climate and Energy  CDP Climate Change 
   (p48); Key Performance 
   Indicators (p74)
 EN6  Reduction of ener gy consumption  Planet - Climate and Energy  CDP Climate Change   
   (p48); Key Performance 
   Indicators (p74)   
 EN8  T otal water withdrawal by source  —  CDP Water
 EN9  W ater sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water  —  CDP Water
  EN15  Dir ect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1)  Planet - Climate and Energy  CDP Climate Change 
   (p48); Key Performance 
   Indicators (p74)
  EN16  Ener gy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2)  Planet - Climate and Energy  CDP Climate Change
   (p48) 
 EN17  Other indir ect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3)  Planet - Climate and Energy  CDP Climate Change
   (p48) 
 EN18  Gr eenhouse gas emissions intensity  Planet - Climate and Energy  CDP Climate Change 
   (p48); Key Performance 
   Indicators (p74)
 EN19  Reduction of gr eenhouse gas emissions  Planet - Climate and Energy  CDP Climate Change 
   (p48); Key Performance 
   Indicators (p74)
 EN22  W ater discharge by quality and destination  Key Performance Indicators (p74)  CDP Water
 EN23  Amount of waste by type/destination  Planet - Reducing Waste  (p61)  —
 EN24  Number/volume of significant spills  Key Performance Indicators  (p74)  —
 EN27  Extent of impact mitigation of envir onmental  Performance - Pr oduct  —    
  impacts of products and services  Sustainability (p34) ;    
   Planet (p46)
 EN29  Incidents/fines for non-compliance with  Key Performance Indicators  (p74)  — 
  envir onmental regulations
 EN30  Significant envir onmental impacts  Planet - Climate and Energy  CDP Climate Change   
  of transportation or logistics  (p54)    
  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index78 of 58
78 of 80
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
 GRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report   Other
 Indicator  Description  Refer ence or Direct Answer   Refer ence
 Labor Practices and Decent W ork
 Disclosur e on  Employment, Labor/Management Relations,  People  (p10)   —
 Management  Occupational Health and Safety , Training and Education, 
 Appr oach  Diversity and Equal Opportunity , Equal Remuneration    
 LA5  Notice period r egarding operational changes  Comply with r egulations   —
 LA6  Health and safety data  People  (p16); Key Performance   —
   Indicators (p74)   
 LA9  A verage hours of training per year per employee  People - Supporting Colgate People  —  
   (p13)
 LA10  Pr ograms for skills management/lifelong learning  People - Supporting Colgate People  —  
   (p13)  
 LA12  Employee and gover nance body demographics  People (p10) ; Key Performance   —
   Indicators (p74)
 Human Rights
 Disclosur e on  Investment and pr ocurement practices, non-discrimination,  People - Business Integrity (p21)  Code of Conduct; 
 Management  fr eedom of association and collective bargaining, child labor,   Supplier Code of Conduct
 Appr oach  pr evention of forced and compulsory labor, security practices,  
  indigenous rights, assessment, r emediation   
 Society
 Disclosur e on  Local communities, corruption, public policy ,  People  - Business Integrity (p20)  Code of Conduct; 
 Management  anti-competitive behavior , compliance   ColgatePalmolive.com  -   
 Approach    Governance
 SO6  Political contributions to political parties or candidates  $0  Code of Conduct;   
    ColgatePalmolive.com -  
    Governance
 Pr oduct Responsibility
 Disclosur e on  Customer health and safety , product and service  Performance  (p33)  Product Safety
 Management  labeling, marketing communications, customer  Performance (p35)  Research Policy
 Appr oach  privacy , compliance    
 PR5  Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction  Performance - Consumer  Consumer Affairs
   driven Innovation (p33) 79 of 58
79 of 80
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
The following is provided to supplement 
certain financial measures discussed in the 
financial highlights sections of this report 
(pages 5 and 32) both as reported (on a GAAP 
basis) and excluding the impact of certain 
items (Non-GAAP) as explained below. 
Management believes these Non-GAAP 
financial measures provide useful supple-
mental information to investors regarding 
the performance of the Company’s ongo-ing operations. The Company uses these 
financial measures internally in its budget-
ing process and as a factor in determining 
compensation. While the Company believes 
that these Non-GAAP financial measures are 
useful in evaluating the Company’s business, 
this information should be considered as 
supplemental in nature and is not meant to 
be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared 
in accordance with GAAP . In addition, these 
Non-GAAP financial measures may not be 
the same as similar measures presented by 
other companies. 
  Note: All per shar e amounts have been restated to reflect 
the 201 3 two-for-one stock split.
 (1) Charges relate to the 201 2 Restructuring Program that 
began in the fourth quarter of 201 2. 
 (2) In 201 4, the Company recorded $214 million of aftertax 
remeasurement charges related to the effective devalu-
ations as a result of the changes to Venezuela’s foreign 
exchange system in 201 4. In 201 3, the Company recorded 
a $111 million aftertax charge related to the devaluation  
in Venezuela in 201 3.
 (3) Represents charges for European competition law  matters.
 (4) Represents costs related to the sale of land in Mexico.
 (5) In 201 4, the Company recorded a $66 million income tax 
charge related to a foreign tax matter.  
 (6) Represents costs associated with global business realign-ment and other cost-saving initiatives. 
 (7) In 2011, the Company recorded a $1 35 million aftertax 
gain on sale of a non-core laundry detergent business in 
Colombia. In 201 0, the Company recorded a $30 million 
aftertax gain on sale of non-core product lines. 
 (8) In 201 0, the Company recorded a $271  million charge 
related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting  
in Venezuela.
 (9) In 201 0, the Company recorded a $61  million aftertax 
charge for termination benefits.
 (10) In 201 0, the Company recorded a $31  million benefit 
related to the reorganization of an overseas subsidiary.(Dollars in Millions  Gr oss Profit  Operating  Net  Diluted  
Except Per Share Amounts)  Mar gin  Pr ofit  Income  EPS   
2014  
As Reported (GAAP)  58.5%  $3,557  $2,180  $2.36  
2012 Restructuring Program (1) 0.2%  286  208  0.23
Venezuela Remeasurement Charges (2) –  327  214  0.23 
European Competition Law Matters (3) – 41  41  0.04
Mexico Land Sale (4) –  4  3  –)
Charge For A Foreign Tax Matter (5) – –  66  0.07
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.7%  $4,215  $2,712  $2.93 
2013 
As Reported (GAAP)  58.6%  $3,556   $2,241  $2.38
2012 Restructuring Program (1) 0.2%  371  278  0.30
Venezuela Remeasurement Charges (2) –  172  111  0.12
European Competition Law Matters (3) – 23  23  0.03 
Mexico Land Sale (4) –  18  12  0.01
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.8%  $4,140  $2,665  $2.84
2012 
As Reported (GAAP)  58.1%  $3,889   $2,472  $2.57
2012 Restructuring Program (1) –  89  70  0.07
Mexico Land Sale (4) 0.2%  24  18  0.02
Business Realignment Initiatives (6) –  21  14  0.02
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.3%  $4,023  $2,574  $2.68
2011
As Reported (GAAP)  57.3%  $3,841  $2,431  $2.47
European Competition Law Matters (3) –  21  21  0.02
Mexico Land Sale (4) –  13  9  0.01
Business Realignment Initiatives (6) 0.3%  190  147  0.15
Gain on Sale of Non-Core Product Lines (7) –  (207)  (135)  (0.14)
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  57.6%  $3,858  $2,473  $2.51
2010  
As Reported (GAAP)  59.1%  $3,489  $2,203  $2.16
Gain on Sale of Non-Core Product Lines (7) –  (50)  (30)  (0.03)
Venezuela Hyperinflationary Charge (8) –  271  271  0.26
Termination Benefits (9) –  86  61  0.06
Tax Initiatives (10) –  –  (31)  (0.03)
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  59.1%  $3,796  $2,474  $2.42300 P ark Avenue  New York, NY 10022- 7499300 P ark Avenue  New York, NY 10022- 7499
300 P ark Avenue  New York, NY 10022- 7499300 P ark Avenue  New York, NY 10022- 7499
© 2015 Colgate-Palmolive Company
Design by Robert Webster Inc. (RWI), www.rwidesign.com
Printing by Universal Wilde