1
Contents
Colgate Corporate Social Responsibility And Sustainability
Report 2019
3
Message from Noel Wallace
5
What’s New
7
Colgate 2025: Our Strategy for The Future
8
2015 to 2020 Strategy
10
2019 At A Glance
11
2020 Sustainability Commitments Progress
15
UN Global Compact and SDGs
16
Company Profile
17
Sustainability Management
21
About This Report
23
Governance
26
PEOPLE
61
PERFORMANCE
80
PLANET
115
Responsibly Made
115
Committed to Responsible Sourcing
115
Sustainability Reporting
116
Partnerships
Bookmarks above are clickable when the PDF  is downloaded.
Note that the bookmarks will not work on Android
mobile devices.
22019 Sustainability at Colgate-P almoliv e
Welcome t o our 2019 Sustainability Repor t, wher e you'll
learn about our Sustainability Str ategy and 
commitments t o People, P erformance and Planet. Y ou'll
also ﬁnd highlights about the pr ogress we 've made 
this y ear.
A welcome letter from President and CEO, Noel Wallace
We are Colgate, a caring, innovative growth company
reimagining a healthier future for
people, their pets, and our planet. This purpose unites
Colgate-Palmolive People all
around the world and energizes our sustainability
efforts.
The world looks to Colgate for health and hygiene
products to enable the well-being of their families
and
cleaner, greener living.  We leverage the power and
potential of science, purposeful packaging and
long-trusted brands to build a brighter future for
people around the world. For Colgate, our company
purpose and the value of our products are directly
tied to how well we execute on sustainability. Especially
now, as we focus on our health and homes in the face
of the
COVID-19 pandemic
, the implications of our
actions on Climate and Waste is that much more important
and the call to action even louder.
Highlighted in this report are the recent steps we
have taken toward building a healthier planet:
Increasing Recyclability
Colgate introduced a ﬁrst-of-its kind recyclable
toothpaste tube and is openly sharing our innovation
with
other companies.  We’re also educating packaging and
recycling stakeholders to gain acceptance for the
tube. We’re ready for the work ahead to transform
one of the most widely used forms of plastic packaging
that until now could not be recycled.
Decreasing Waste, Emissions at Manufacturing Centers
As of 2019, a total of 16 Colgate manufacturing facilities
on four continents have achieved TRUE Zero
Waste certiﬁcation from the U.S. Green Building Council.
That’s more facilities in more regions than any
other company, and the list grows year after year.
Our Burlington, N.J. ﬂavors facility is the ﬁrst
in the
world to achieve LEED Zero certiﬁcation not just
for waste, but also for carbon, energy and water.
A four
time winner!
3
Saving Water
Since its 2016 launch, our 'Save Water' program to
encourage conservation has helped avoid the use of
an
estimated 99 billion gallons of water. Less water
also means less energy usage and a reduction of an
estimated 5.5 million metric tons of greenhouse gas
emissions. During Climate Week at the United
Nations, Colgate hosted a panel discussion to share
our learnings and further gain support for water
conservation. Recognizing that people use water to
brush their teeth, wash their bodies and clean their
homes, we continued our public awareness campaign
to inform consumers and encourage daily habit
changes to preserve this natural resource.
Colgate People are proud that we’re a leader in these
and other areas. And we know it’s important to the
people we serve.  The new Responsibly Made icon on
our packaging shows consumers that our products
are made at Colgate-Palmolive facilities that are
increasing energy and water eﬃciency, driving towards
zero waste, striving for no workplace accidents, and
adhering to ethical labor practices.
Our leadership is being recognized. We’re now listed
as a leader within the UN Global Compact—the
world's largest corporate sustainability initiative.
We were named to both the 2019 Dow Jones
Sustainability World and North America Indices and
for the ﬁrst time ever was the Household Industry
Sector Leader. Most recently, Colgate received a 2020
U.S. EPA Energy Star Partner of the Year Award for
the 10th consecutive year.
Colgate People care, and we are more determined than
ever to innovate and make products that bring
greater health and wellness to people, their pets
and our planet. We are working hard with our partners
--
customers, suppliers, NGOs, academics and governments
-- to make faster progress for the greater good
and a brighter and more sustainable future for all.
Together, we will.
4
What's New
NEW: Recogniz ed for Our Sustainability Commitments
Discover the latest news on how Colgate has been recognized
for our sustainability
leadership,
commitments and progress.
2020 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year:
Colgate was named a 2020 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the
Year for the 10th
consecutive year and has received the Sustained Excellence
Award for our
continued leadership and superior contributions to
ENERGY STAR.
Named Industry Leader:
For the third year in a row, Colgate-Palmolive was
named to the 2019 Dow
Jones Sustainability Indices. For the ﬁrst time,
Colgate was named Household
Products Industry Sector Leader.
A First for the World:
Colgate’s Burlington, New Jersey, manufacturing facility
was the ﬁrst site in the
world to achieve LEED Zero certiﬁcation by the U.S.
Green Building Council for
net zero carbon, energy, water and waste.
Fostering Disability Inclusion:
Disability:IN named Colgate one of the “Best Places
to Work for Disability
Inclusion,” recognized as part of the 2019 Disability
Equality Index. The evolving
index scores companies on their disability policies
and practices.
Advancing Women of Diverse Backgrounds to Leadership
Roles:
Diversity MBA named Colgate-Palmolive a Best Place
for Women & Diverse
Managers to Work.
5
Among the World’s Most Ethical:
For the 10th year in a row, Colgate-Palmolive was
named one of the World’s
Most Ethical Companies for 2020 by Ethisphere, a global
leader in deﬁning
and advancing the standards of ethical business practices.
First-of-its-kind:
Colgate’s design for a ﬁrst-of-its-kind recyclable
toothpaste tube was the ﬁrst to be recognized by
the
Association of Plastic Recyclers—an important step
toward reaching our goal of 100% recyclable
packaging by 2025.
Winning with Water:
Colgate-Palmolive’s Save Water campaign at Walmart
won a Silver Eﬃe Award in the Single-Retailer
Program: Mass Merchants Category
UN Global Compact LEAD:
The UN Global Compact—the world’s largest corporate
sustainability initiative—designated Colgate a
LEAD Company for our commitment to its Sustainable
Development Goals.
Recognized for Recycling:
The Association of Plastic Recyclers, a leading international
trade association representing the
plastics recycling industry, presented Colgate with
a “Showcase Award” for our creation of the ﬁrst
recyclable dish soap packaging, Palmolive Oxy.
Helping Working Parents Succeed at Home and Work:
We were recognized by Working Mother magazine as a
100 Best Company, and a Best Company for
Multicultural Women.
Helping Women Climb the Corporate Ladder:
In 2020, the National Association for Female Executives
(NAFE) named Colgate-Palmolive a Top
Company for Executive Women, for the 17th consecutive
year earning this recognition.
6
Colgate 2025: Our Str ategy for The F uture
As we embark upon a new decade, Colgate is presented
with tremendous opportunities and new
challenges in the area of sustainability. We begin
this new decade with great momentum and a sense of
accomplishment as we ﬁnish the last year of our 2015
to 2020 sustainability strategy. We are now
determined to position ourselves for further growth
and are setting our sights on something even bigger
as we announce our 2025 Sustainability & Social Impact
Mission, our 3 Key Ambitions, and several new
important Actions & Targets. We will be sharing more
soon.
2025 Sustainability & Social Impact Mission
At Colgate-Palmolive, we are really proud that Colgate
is in more
homes than any other, so
we can
and
we will
create
a he
althier,
more sustainable future for all.
Key Ambitions
DRIVING SOCIAL IMPACT
We are committed to ensuring the wellbeing of those
we serve, building a culture
of inclusivity and creating meaningful opportunities
for all people to succeed
inside and outside Colgate.
HELPING MILLIONS OF HOMES
We are empowering people to develop healthier
habits by choosing sustainable
products that improve their lives and homes from oral
and personal care to pet
nutrition and home care.
PRESERVING OUR ENVIRONMENT
We are accelerating action on climate change and reducing
our environmental
footprint, working with our partners and operations
to eliminate waste, decrease
plastic usage, save water and conserve natural resources.
7
Building a Future to Smile About
2015 t o 2020 Str ategy
Colgate’s 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy maintains
our emphasis on People, Performance and 
Planet with focused, measurable goals that align with
the Company’s business objectives.
Helping Colgate People and Their Families Live Better
WE WILL:
●
Continuously improve employee health and reduce health
risks by 15%
(1)
●
Encourage healthier living for Colgate People and
their families
●
Ensure a safe and healthy work environment with a
goal of zero lost-time incidents
●
Provide education and tools to Colgate People to elevate
ﬁnancial awareness and planning
Contributing to the Communities Where We Live and
Work
WE WILL:
●
Expand Bright Smiles, Bright Futures
TM
program to
reach 1.3 billion children
●
Invest in the improvement of health, education, and
environment for thousands of people in
communities around the globe
●
Partner with animal shelters to help over 2 million
dogs and cats ﬁnd homes
●
Reach 60 million people annually with handwashing
education
●
Expand Colgate Cares Day globally to be a leader in
volunteerism
Delighting Consumers and Sustaining Our World With
Our Brands
WE WILL:
●
Improve the sustainability proﬁle in our new products
and product updates
(2)
●
Commit $250 million to drive sustainability with breakthrough
product and process innovation
●
Increase the recyclability of our packaging and increase
recycled content to 50%
(3)
●
Have a positive impact by expanding access to affordable
health and wellness products for
millions of people in underserved communities
●
Use the power of our brands to build awareness and
drive engagement in product
sustainability
8Making Every Drop of Water Count
WE WILL:
●
Reduce our manufacturing water intensity by half compared
to 2002 
●
Replenish water withdrawn in highly stressed regions
●
Increase supplier participation in our water stewardship
program
●
Partner with local and global organizations to bring
clean water to underserved areas of the
world
●
Promote water conservation awareness to all our global
consumers
Reducing Our Impact on Climate and the Environment
WE WIL
L:
●
Responsibly source forest commodities to reach zero
net deforestation 
●
Promote use of renewable energy and reduce absolute
greenhouse gas emissions from
manufacturing by 25% compared to 2002
●
Reduce our manufacturing energy intensity by one-third
compared to 2002
●
Halve our manufacturing waste sent to landﬁll per
ton of product compared to 2010, working
toward our goal of “Zero Waste”
●
Partner with key suppliers, customers and consumers
to reduce energy, greenhouse gas
emissions, and waste
(1)
15% risk reduction will be measured considering
a 2013 baseline, using the Global Health Risk
Assessment tool, available to countries with 100 or
more employees.
(2)
The performance results will be based on representative
new products and product updates evaluated
against comparable Colgate products, considering a
2015 baseline, across seven impact areas to
characterize likely improvement in the sustainability
proﬁle, based on review of quantitative and
qualitative data.
(3)
Packages meeting all three criteria are considered
recyclable: 1) the package is made of a material
that
is widely accepted for recycling, 2) the package can
be separated into material(s) that can be recycled,
and 3) the package material can be reprocessed into
a preferred valuable feedstock.
92019 At A Glance
Colgate People around the world are coming together
to align behind our sustainability commitments
and continue to make progress. Below are some highlights
and accomplishments of our progress over
the past year.
People
●
Reached over
1.2 billion
children with oral health
education since 1991 through our Bright 
Smiles Bright Futures program
●
Colgate People achieved
23 million
Healthy Activity
Minutes
●
More than
1.5 million
people reached with handwashing
education in 2019
●
Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessments program
in 2019 assessed more than
80%
of 
our “at risk” spend
●
More than
11 million
pet adoptions since 2002 through
our
Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love™ 
program
●
With a continued emphasis on foundational health and
safety programs and critical risk 
management, in 2019, Colgate had the lowest number
of recordable and lost work day 
accidents in our Company’s history.
Performance
●
To date, our Save Water program has helped avoid using
an estimated
99 billion
gallons of 
water and an estimated
5.5 million
metric tons of
greenhouse gas emissions.
(1)
●
Through our partnership withTerraCycle, more than
54,000 locations engaged in recycling, 
helping us divert nearly
9 million
pieces of oral
care waste from landﬁlls
●
Improved the sustainability proﬁle of over
99%
of
new products and product updates
(2)
●
Approximately
43%
of our packaging materials by weight
are from recycled sources
●
Approximately
83%
of our packaging is recyclable (personal
care, home care, and pet 
nutrition)
●
54%
of scientists at Colgate are women
10Planet
●
450,000
people reached with water and sanitation and/or
health and hygiene education since
2013
●
46%
reduction in water use per ton of product manufactured
versus 2002
(3)
●
41%
reduction in waste sent to landﬁll per ton of
product manufactured versus 2010
(3)
●
30%
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions versus 2002
●
31%
reduction in energy intensity versus 2002
(3)
●
70%
of palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm oil derivatives
purchases are certiﬁed
●
To date,
11
Colgate manufacturing  facilities have
achieved GBCI TRUE Zero Waste
certiﬁcation
___________________________________________________________________________________________
(1)
Estimated through delivered impressions on earned
and social media, television and online video.
(2)
The performance results will be based on representative
new products and product updates evaluated
against comparable Colgate products, considering a
2015 baseline, across seven impact areas to
characterize likely improvement in the sustainability
proﬁle, based on review of quantitative and
qualitative data.
(3)
Subject to ﬁnal veriﬁcation by a third-party
auditor.
112020 Sustainability Commitments Progress
Highlights of the progress we made on our sustainability
commitments this year are described below.
Colgate was named to both the 2018 Dow Jones Sustainability
World and North America Indices, was
recognized as a U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 2018 Partner
of the Year for the 8th year in a row, and was
named to the CDP Supplier A List in 2018. Read further
to learn more about the progress we have made
on Colgate’s Sustainability Strategy.
People
Helping Colgate People and Their Families Live Better
●
In 2018, the Global Health Risk Assessment (HRA) tool
was available in 50 countries,
providing access to 60% of Colgate’s workforce. The
HRA tool helps Colgate employees
self-evaluate health status and understand health
risks and provides conﬁdential feedback to
motivate behavioral change.
●
In each of the past six years, more than 60% of Colgate
employees participated in our Global
Healthy Activity Challenge. In 2018, employees logged
26 million minutes of healthy activity.
●
Colgate is working to support employees in their effort
to be ﬁnancially secure at every stage
of their lives. Employees in more than 100 countries
now have access to a ﬁnancial wellness
toolkit, available in seven languages.
Contributing to the Communities Where We Live and
Work
●
Colgate's Bright Smiles, Bright Futures® (BSBF) is
our ﬂagship oral health education program,
reaching children in more than 80 countries. In 2018
we passed an extraordinary milestone:
since the program was established in 1991, we have
reached one billion children and their
families with free dental screenings and oral health
education.
●
Since 2002, Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love™ program has
provided more than $290 million in pet
food to more than 1,000 pet shelters and helped more
than ten million pets ﬁnd their forever
homes across North America.
12●
Colgate is working with public health oﬃcials, academia and local schools and clinics to
educate millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene beneﬁts of
handwashing with soap. Colgate teaches handwashing
as part of our BSBF program. Building
the steps for proper handwashing into the oral care
component of BSBF, the program creates
shared value for both Colgate and society, helping
to improve health outcomes while building
brand awareness for and the reputation of Colgate’s
Protex soap brand.
Performance
Delighting Consumers and Sustaining Our World With
Our Brands
●
96% of the products evaluated with Colgate’s Product
Sustainability Scorecard were
determined to be “more sustainable,” showing an improvement
in at least one of the following
areas: responsible sourcing and raw materials, energy
and greenhouse gases, water, waste,
ingredient proﬁle, packaging and social metrics.
(1)
●
Colgate has made great strides in its commitment to
improving the sustainability proﬁle of
our products by eliminating the use of microbeads,
phthalates, and parabens as ingredients.
In 2018, we have proactively eliminated the use of
triclocarban, globally, and all chromium-
containing pigments from our products. We no longer
manufacture products containing
triclosan as of the second quarter 2019.
●
Approximately 43% of our packaging materials by weight
globally now come from recycled
sources and approximately 83% of our packaging is
considered recyclable. We have removed
99% of PVC from our packaging and plan to completely
eliminate it in 2019.
●
At Colgate, we believe in sharing what goes into our
products so that consumers can make
the best decisions about what is right for them and
their families. That’s why we are proud to
embrace
SmartLabel
, a digital platform that goes beyond
the label to put the power of
information in consumers’ hands. Consumers can simply
scan the barcode on
Colgate-Palmolive products or visit SmartLabel website
to ﬁnd information on product
allergens, sourcing, sustainability, ingredients and
more.
13Planet
Making Every Drop of Water Count
●
In 2018, Colgate reduced water use per ton of production
by nearly 46% vs. 2002, avoiding
enough water use to ﬁll 250 billion glasses of water.
(1)
●
Colgate continues to scale up our Save Water campaign
globally to promote water
conservation awareness with on-package messaging,
in-store communications and social
media and through a partnership with the Nature Conservancy
in the United States.
●
Colgate’s contributions to the Water For People’s
Everyone Forever program helped the
organization reach more than 450,000 people since
2013 with water, sanitation systems
and/or health and oral hygiene education in Guatemala,
Peru and India.
Reducing Our Impact on Climate and the Environment
●
Colgate continues to reduce its absolute greenhouse
gas emissions. So far, we have reduced
our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by approximately
30% compared to 2002.
(2)
●
Working towards the Company’s goal of “Zero Waste,”
Colgate has reduced the amount of
waste per ton of production sent to landﬁlls by nearly
41% since 2010.
(2)
●
Colgate continues to make progress on its commitment
to mobilize resources to achieve zero
net deforestation by 2020 as stated in our policy
on No Deforestation.
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
(1)
The per formance r esults ar e based on r epresentativ e
products fr om the pr oduct por tfolio e valuated against
compar able Colgate pr oducts acr oss thr ee impact ar eas
to char acteriz e likely impr ovement in the sustainability
proﬁle, based on r eview of quantitativ e and qualitativ e
data.
(2)
Subject t o ﬁnal v eriﬁcation b y a thir d-par ty
audit or.
14UN Global Compact and SDGs
15
Company Profile
Founded in 1806, Colgate-Palmolive Company is a publicly
traded consumer products company with
$15.7 billion of worldwide net sales in 2019, serving
people around the world with well-known brands that
make their lives healthier and more enjoyable.
Operations
Colgate operates in more than 80 countries, and our
products are marketed in more than 200 countries
and territories. Approximately 34,500 Colgate employees
drive our success. Headquartered in New York
City, Colgate operates through six divisions around
the world: North America, Latin America, Europe,
Asia
Paciﬁc, Africa/Eurasia, and Hill’s Pet Nutrition.
The Company has more than 50 manufacturing and
research facilities globally. The vast majority of
Colgate products are manufactured in Colgate-owned
facilities. Colgate also has an extensive supply chain
consisting of thousands of suppliers of raw and
packing materials, manufacturing operating supplies,
capital equipment, and other goods and services.
Colgate Brands
Colgate is a leading global consumer products company,
focused on Oral Care, Personal Care, Home Care,
and Pet Nutrition. Colgate manufactures and markets
its products under trusted brands such as Colgate,
Palmolive, elmex, Tom’s of Maine, Sorriso, Speed Stick,
Lady Speed Stick, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex,
Sanex, EltaMD, PCA Skin, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Soupline
and Suavitel, as well as Hill’s Science Diet, Hill’s
Prescription Diet.
Business Strength
We remain sharply focused on our key priorities—driving
organic sales
growth, maximizing productivity across the income
statement, effective
deployment of cash ﬂow and leading to win in order
to drive sustainable,
proﬁtable growth worldwide over the long term.  To
read more, see our
annual report
.
16
Sustainability Management
Sustainability is integrated into Colgate’s business
model and aligned with our core values: Caring, Global
Teamwork and Continuous Improvement. Our sustainability
efforts help ensure our business grows
consistently and responsibly, beneﬁts those we serve
and promotes the well-being of future generations.
Materiality Approach
In order to further reﬁne and build upon Colgate’s
sustainability strategy, in 2019, Colgate conducted
a
Stakeholder versus Business Impact assessment. This
assessment is recognized by the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) as a Materiality assessment.
We refer to this as a Sustainability Impact
Assessment
(1)
.
In 2019, we updated our Sustainability Impact Assessment
to meet the expectations of our external
stakeholders and to help inform our business decisions.
To do so, we ﬁrst created an extensive list of
sustainability-related issues by examining a large
number of internal and external sources including
the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs),
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB),
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD), Environmental, Social, and Governance rating
tools (Dow Jones Standards Indices (DJSI), CDP,
Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS), Just Capital,
Sustainalytics and Morgan Stanley Capital
International (MSCI)), peer reviewed scientiﬁc research,
industry reports, consumer insights data and
employee feedback.
We then assessed the interrelations between these
sustainability-related topics and our business
through the lenses of risks and opportunities. By
conducting a large employee survey, we asked our
employees where Colgate can make the biggest impact.
We held in-depth interviews with Colgate
subject matter experts and function leads to align
our ﬁndings with business priorities and analyzed
17data from our consumers to identify moving trends in the market. As a result, we have developed the
“Sustainability Impact Matrix” presented below.
The matrix above shows our key sustainability issues,
categorized by the impact on our stakeholders
and our business in alignment with our three sustainability
pillars, People, Performance and Planet.
These issues also intersect with the following GRI
Standards and deﬁne the content of this report:
Economic Performance, Materials, Energy, Water, Emissions,
Eﬄuents and Waste, Products and
Services, Compliance, Transport,  Environmental Health
and Safety, Training and Education, Diversity and
Equal Opportunity, Local Communities, Public Policy,
and Service Labeling.
Colgate is managing risks and opportunities related
to these issues through the implementation of our
2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy. Through our
Enterprise Risk Management process, we are focused
on the environmental and social impact risk of plastic
waste, climate change and water scarcity and
18
access. These same issues also provide an opportunity to drive innovation and growth, strengthen brand
reputation and demonstrate our commitment to responsible
business practices. Additional detail on
each of the issues and our actions to address them
is provided throughout the content of the website.
As reﬂected in the Risk Factors identiﬁed in our
2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequent
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Product Stewardship,
Climate Change and Water, Plastic and Energy
Use are among our top sustainability risks.
______________________________________________________________________________________________________
(1)
This report reserves the term “materiality” only
to address issues that are deemed material from the
point of
view of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC). Topics that are important from a sustainability
point of view in relation to our business, as deﬁned
in the GRI Guidelines and other reporting frameworks,
are
listed under the Key Sustainability Issues section.
As a publicly traded company, Colgate ﬁles required
reports
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and
subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q highlight
risks material to an investment in the Company’s
securities, including, but not limited to, those relating
to sustainability, namely: volatility in commodity
prices;
changes in regulatory requirements relating to ingredients
in our products; changes in policies or practices
of
retail trade partners, such as with respect to the
environment or sustainability; damage to our reputation
relating to environmental impacts or other sustainability
issues; disruption to our global supply chain or
key
oﬃce facilities by environmental events; disruptions
in logistics; damage from industrial accidents or
other
occupational health and safety issues; losses caused
by natural disasters, including climate events; the
impact
of epidemics, pandemics and other widespread health
concerns, including COVID-19; and the adverse impact
of climate change. Refer to “Risk Factors” in Part
I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year
ended December 31, 2019 and Part II, Item 1A of subsequent
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the material
risks relating to an investment in our securities.
19Stakeholder Engagement
Colgate strives to create and maintain transparent
communication with a wide variety of stakeholders.
Our sustainability commitments and goals are developed
with the input from our stakeholders, and we
continue to engage with stakeholders to inform our
sustainability strategy. As part of our new
prioritization assessment, we have expanded the reach
and methods of our stakeholder engagement,
improved our feedback mechanisms through an employee
survey, introduced new internal engagement
tools, such as MindSpark and LinkedIn-Elevate, and
encouraged direct feedback from our employees.
Additionally, we have established a cross-functional
team to continuously monitor our external
stakeholders in different areas and discuss how we
can best engage with them on an ongoing basis.
Colgate’s main stakeholder groups and examples of
our engagement approach with respect to
sustainability are outlined below. Read more on Colgate’s
partnerships and details on our engagement.
STAKEHOLDERS
METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT
Our employees
Frequent internal communication, employee engagement
surveys, digital engagement
tools (MindSpark & LinkedIn-Elevate), geographic sustainability
teams, internal subject
matter experts, quarterly sustainability steering
team reviews
Our consumers
Integrated marketing communications including those
addressing “brand purpose,”
ongoing consumer dialogue, consumer surveys, social
media postings
Our retail customers & 
partners
Ongoing sustainability network groups, sustainability
surveys, trade partner supplier
expectations
Our peers and suppliers
Peer benchmarking annually via Consumer Goods Forum
(CGF) membership, supplier
engagement meetings, assessments and disclosure requests
Our shareholders and 
investor groups
Direct inquiries and feedback on an ongoing basis,
face-to-face meetings, investor
conferences
Government and regulatory 
bodies
Ongoing monitoring of regulatory activity relevant
to Colgate, face-to-face meetings
Non-governmental
Quarterly direct inquiries and feedback, face-to-face
meetings, participation in boards,
20associations
advisory councils and partnership programs, reporting
and disclosure expectations
Industry trade associations
Ongoing participation in sustainability steering and
working groups
Local communities and 
community groups
Direct inquiries and feedback, face-to-face meetings
annually
Media
Direct inquiries and feedback
About this Report
We recognize that transparency is important and provides
a window into the Company’s performance on
sustainability. Colgate provides the sustainability
information relevant to a broad range of stakeholders,
including consumers, customers, investors, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), and our own
employees.
Colgate acknowledges the importance of data veriﬁcation
and is obtaining third-party assurance for our
primary environmental and social Key Performance Indicators:
percentage of products with an improved
sustainability proﬁle; number of zero-waste certiﬁed
sites; manufacturing carbon reduction per ton (of
production); manufacturing energy reduction per ton
(of production); manufacturing water consumption
per ton (of production); waste-to-landﬁll per ton
(of production); outbound logistics carbon per ton
(of
goods shipped); number of hours worked; number of
lost-time incidents; number of recordable incidents
and number of occupational fatalities.
In this report and other channels, Colgate discloses
information on our sustainability progress and
responds to several rating organizations, including
CDP Climate, CDP Water, CDP Forest and CDP Supply
Chain, RobecoSAM (to inform the Dow Jones Sustainability
Index rankings), JUST Capital, MSCI and
Sustainalytics. Colgate’s sustainability information
and the KPI table annexed also informs  various ESG
data sources including the Bloomberg Terminal.
Unless otherwise indicated, this report includes environmental,
health and safety data from 100 percent of
Colgate’s manufacturing sites and technology centers
around the world, but does not include data from
21contract manufacturers.
(1)
Certain information relates to our broader value chain. Supplier Responsible
Sourcing Assessment program data includes selected
contract manufacturers, warehouses and suppliers;
our greenhouse gas and water footprints include additional
data from upstream and downstream in our
value chain and progress on our Policy on No Deforestation
includes selected suppliers. Financial
information is presented on a consolidated basis and
in U.S. dollars (see Business Strength). The report
provides data for Colgate’s ﬁscal year 2019 along
with historical information and more recent updates
where indicated. We issue our Sustainability Report
on an annual basis; our previous report focused on
ﬁscal year 2018.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the
GRI Standards: Core option. The alignment of this
year’s report to the new framework can be found in
our GRI Content Index. There are no signiﬁcant
changes in the scope of our report or the key sustainability
issues identiﬁed. Please see our 2019 GRI
Content Index for more details.
For inquiries, please visit
Colgate’s Consumer Affairs
site at
www.colgate palmolive.com
.
____________________________________________________________________________________
Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements
This report, including our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability
Strategy, contains forward-looking statements as
that term is deﬁned in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) in its rules, regulations
and releases. These statements are made on the
basis of Colgate’s views and assumptions as of this
time, and Colgate undertakes no obligation to update
these statements except as required by law. Colgate
cautions investors that such forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance
and that actual events or results may differ
materially from these statements due to a number of
factors. For information about factors that could
impact Colgate’s business and cause actual results
to differ materially from these forward-looking
statements, please refer to our ﬁlings with the SEC,
including the information set forth under the caption
“Risk Factors” in Colgate’s
Annual Report on Form
10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2019 and
subsequent
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
.
(1)
Although Colgate does not include the local operating
results of CP Venezuela and CP Pakistan in its
Consolidated Financial Statements, data from these
locations are included in the calculations in this
report.
Recent acquisitions of our skin health and
oral care businesses, PCA Skin, eltaMD, Filorga and
hello are not included in calculations referenced
throughout this report, but they are consolidated
for
ﬁnancial reporting.
22Governance
Colgate ’s Go vernance Principles
Colgate’s Board believes that good corporate governance
accompanies and greatly aids Colgate’s
long-term business success. Colgate’s key strategic
business priorities are growing sales through
engaging with consumers, developing world-class innovation
and working with retail partners; driving
eﬃciency on every line of the income statement to
increase margins; generating strong cash ﬂow
performance and utilizing that cash effectively to
enhance total shareholder return; and leading to
win by
staying true to the Company’s culture, developing
Colgate people and focusing on all of its stakeholders.
Colgate’s Board has been at the center of these key
strategies, helping to design and implement them,
and
seeing that they guide the Company’s operations. The
Board believes that the Company has consistently
been at the forefront of good corporate governance.
Reﬂecting its commitment to continuous
improvement, the Board reviews its governance practices
on an ongoing basis to ensure that they
promote shareholder value. To learn more, visit the
Governance section
on Colgate’s website.
Sustainability Governance
Sustainability Steering Committee composed of Colgate’s
Senior Vice President and Chief of Staff;
President, North America & Global Sustainability;Chief
Sustainability Oﬃcer; Chief Technology Oﬃcer;
Chief Human Resources Oﬃcer; Vice President, Global
Compensation and Beneﬁts; Chief Marketing
Oﬃcer; Chief Communications Oﬃcer; Chief Legal
Oﬃcer and Secretary; and Chief Supply Chain Oﬃcer
makes strategic decisions related to sustainability
and guides the organization to meet sustainability
goals. Colgate’s Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer  has
direct responsibility for implementing sustainability
and
EHS programs. For our annual corporate social responsibility
report, the Global Sustainability team
gathers the content cross-functionally and the Sustainability
Steering Committee reviews the ﬁnal report
content.
23Additionally, networks of senior leaders in each division and local champions support on-the-ground
sustainability efforts, communications, and reporting. Global functions, such as Human Resources,
Packaging, Procurement and Technology, coordinate
certain aspects of the program where global
consistency is appropriate. Moreover, to integrate
sustainability tracking and disclosures into our
business strategy, operations and employee review
process, Colgate’s global sustainability initiatives
have been added to team goals and individual objectives
used to determine the compensation for many
of Colgate’s senior managers.
Colgate’s Board of Directors is kept informed of the
Company’s progress via regular updates and
considers sustainability matters, risks, and opportunities
in decision-making. Sustainability is considered
a critical risk as part of our Enterprise Risk Management
process. Additionally, Colgate’s Chief Financial
Oﬃcer provides the Audit Committee of the Board
of Directors with an update on the Company’s
Enterprise Risk Management Program. The Personnel
and Organization Committee of the Board reviews
the Company’s sustainability and social responsibility
programs and other public interest matters,
including cultural diversity, equal opportunity, charitable
giving, and international human rights. Please
visit
Colgate’s Policy Statements
for a complete listing.
Business Integrity
Colgate is committed to doing business with integrity
and respect for all people and for the world around
us. With governance and ethics principles embedded
into Company culture as well as standards
supporting the well-being of all Colgate people, Colgate
ensures its business success goes hand-in-hand
with business integrity.
CODE OF CONDUCT AND GLOBAL BUSINESS PRACTICES GUIDELINES
Since 1987, our Code of Conduct has served as a guide
for our daily business interactions, reﬂecting our
corporate values and our standard for ethical behavior.
Our Code of Conduct is available in 40 different
languages. One hundred percent of salaried and clerical
Colgate people participate in annual training and
certiﬁcation on the Code of Conduct. Factory workers
certify annually and complete training every other
year. Our audit ﬁrm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
audits a cross-section of these certiﬁcations. Colgate’s
Global Business Practices Guidelines provide further
information to our employees on key topics in our
24Code of Conduct. The Guidelines offer clear, practical guidance and illustrate how the values and
principles outlined in the Code of Conduct apply to
particular business situations. Refer to our
Business
Practices Guidelines
for a full list of topics addressed.
The Colgate EthicsLine provides a means for employees
and external parties to ask questions, obtain
guidance or report any suspected violations of the
Code of Conduct. We work to create a workplace free
of inappropriate or unlawful behavior in which people
are encouraged to share their concerns with the
Company without fear of retaliation. Consequently,
at Colgate no adverse action will be taken against
any
employee, former employee, agent, or third party for
complaining about, reporting, participating in or
assisting in the investigation of a suspected violation
of the Company’s Code of Conduct, Company policy
or applicable law unless the allegation made or information
provided is found to be intentionally false or
was not made in good faith.
All reporting activity provided when Colgate People
“Speak Up” is reviewed and, if deemed to be a
potential violation of the Code of Conduct, the matter
is promptly and thoroughly investigated by Global
Ethics & Compliance and/or the Global Legal Organization.
In 2019, Ethics and Compliance received 422 contacts
through a variety of channels including the
EthicsLine, Ethics web tool and ethics@colpal.com,
which covered a wide variety of reporting activities
including 57 consultations. Allegations reported to
Ethics and Compliance, are grouped into the following
categories: Accounting related, Conﬂict of Interest,
Discrimination; Financial-related; Harassment;
Regulatory and Legal Retaliation; Work Environment;
Miscellaneous Issues (“Other”); and non-Ethics and
Compliance matters. After a thorough investigation
has been completed, if the allegations are
substantiated, appropriate remedial action is taken.
Our Business Practices Guidelines illustrate how the
values and principles outlined in the
Colgate-Palmolive Code of Conduct apply to particular
business situations. Our guidelines detail not only
Colgate-Palmolive policies but also our Company’s
compliance with speciﬁc laws, regulations and
practices.
For more information on all of the above, visit
Colgate’s
Ethics & Compliance Guidelines.
25Our People
Learn about the progress we’ve made on our 2020 Sustainability
People Commitments in 2019.
Suppor ting Colgate P eople
Supporting Colgate People is the most important driver
of our business success.
As such, Colgate is
committed to helping our people reach their professional
and personal goals, offering an array of
resources to help expand their professional and personal
horizons: from providing career opportunities,
access to world-class learning and leadership development
programs, wellness initiatives, and
opportunities to contribute to the communities where
we work and live. Through these programs, Colgate
helps employees stay engaged, rewarded, and focused
on delivering products and services that exceed
our consumers’ expectations.
Our A pproach
We support all Colgate employees to perform at their
fullest potential and recognize the important role
organizational diversity and inclusion plays in our
global success. We work to attract and retain talented
individuals who lead with integrity. We align the
work of our people to our global strategy through
individual and team goals. Our Performance Management
process fosters coaching and feedback and
ensures that people are focused on the right priorities
to drive growth. Our strong learning curriculum
reaches all functions worldwide, with 3,000 certiﬁed
Colgate instructors and more than 300 courses
relating to functional areas of expertise, ethics
and compliance, and leadership. We continue to support
26
our internal coaching initiatives to help build a coaching culture where people feel comfortable teaching
others and learning through honest development conversations.
We are constantly ﬁnding new and innovative ways
to communicate our employer brand to strengthen our
talent attraction efforts and to share our value proposition
with the global talent pool. Communicating a
consistent, global message about who we are as an
employer helps us to attract potential candidates
that
share our values and vision. It also helps our current
employees feel proud about where they work,
ultimately improving workplace fulﬁllment and productivity.
Building a Future to Smile About
DIVERSE EXPERIENCES
We are truly global. Our diverse perspectives, work
experiences and cultures make us strong. We work
with our global colleagues across borders, boundaries
and functions to learn, grow, and win together.
COLL ABORA TION
We work together globally, to perform at our best
locally, always with unwavering integrity. Colgate
People
welcome each day as an opportunity to improve on the
last by building trust with one another and sharing
new ideas.
AUTHEN TICITY
Our work environments encourage everyone to participate
and be their authentic selves. Our caring culture
fuels a passionate workplace that drives innovation
and our enduring success.
WHO WE ARE
• TRULY GLOBAL
• FORWARD THINKING
• TEAM PLAYERS
• CARING
• CONSUMER FOCUSED
• COLLABORATIVE
• PURPOSE-DRIVEN
• TRUSTWORTHY
• DIVERSE
Our social media framework strengthens Colgate’s employer
branding and digital presence, resulting in the
increase of our talent community and a healthy candidate
pipeline. More than 2.3 million people visited our
job
portal in 2019 and an increasing number engage with
us on social platforms like LinkedIn, Glassdoor,
and
Facebook.
27As a truly global company, our diverse backgrounds enable us to respond to the needs and aspirations of the
billions we serve worldwide. We strive to ensure that we maintain a focus on diversity and minority recruitment
to reﬂect internally the communities in which we
live and work. By doing so, innovation is driven through
a
diverse set of ideas, approaches and backgrounds and
through engaging with various aﬃnity groups and
diversity organizations.
Building a Coaching Culture
In 2019, we continued our focus on building a coaching
culture by partnering with BetterUp, a leading provider
of virtual coaching. BetterUp Coaching provided 200
Colgate leaders with personalized support that helps
broaden and deepen the skills for success and accelerate
individual effectiveness and development.
In 2018, one of our goals was to improve the quality
of decisions for better performance and greater diversity
and inclusion company-wide. To help Colgate People
make more informed, effective and conﬁdent decisions
about people and business, we launched the “DECIDE:
The Neuroscience of Breaking Bias” program. In 2019,
2,500 managers globally completed the “DECIDE” program
and are now using the strategies to mitigate biases.
We are committed to having all Colgate People managers
participate and to share their learning with their
teams.
Creating a Continuous Learning Envir onment
We continue to transform our learning strategy to
better meet the evolving expectations of the modern
workforce and create a continuous learning culture.
Our focus is to develop the strategic organizational
capabilities that will drive current and future growth
for Colgate by offering learning experiences that
are
closely aligned to our business strategy. A continuous
learning culture at Colgate is where Colgate People
learn through being curious, through the coaching
of their leaders, from reverse mentoring programs
and
through collaborating and sharing with each other.
It is where Colgate People learn through experimentation,
external partnerships and through the various roles
and experiences they have throughout their diverse
careers.
One of the key initiatives includes digital transformation.
We believe in technology and people. We have a
learning experience platform called Mindspark, a portal
through which Colgate People access multi modalities
of content including structured, mandatory, functional
and curated content. Colgate People have completed
a
total of 455,000 pieces of internal and external content
(including mandatory training) with an average monthly
28consumption of 22,000 pieces of content. On average, 40% of employees consistently accessed and actively
utilized Mindspark for digital learning in 2019.
In April 2019, we launched Metrics that Matter (MTM),
our online survey analytics platform. This platform
is
key in our journey of understanding how learning is
impacting our people and their behaviors. Colgate
closely
aligns business needs with learning performance and
provides a variety of learning formats and content.
The
average learning satisfaction of all Colgate courses
has always exceeded industry average with a favorable
66%, with 74% of the learning content judged to be
applicable, critical and engaging. With Mindspark
and MTM,
Colgate continues to drive better learning experiences
for all Colgate People and promotes a learning culture
that we can smile about.
Engaging Employees
In 2016, we launched “Colgate Connect,” a global survey
to assess key drivers of employee engagement at
Colgate. We partnered with an industry-leading vendor
to develop the survey, build robust reporting and
analytics capabilities and provide managers with a
simple tool for reviewing results and action planning
with
their teams. This survey is conducted every other
year. In 2019, we added a shorter “pulse” survey focused
on
key improvement areas. Combined with additional insights
gathered at critical moments of the employee
journey -- at the completion of the recruitment process,
during the onboarding process and when leaving
Colgate -- we are leveraging employee input and analytics
to drive engagement.
Through the 2018 Colgate Connect survey, we learned
that our people want to learn more about career
opportunities at Colgate. Our European team took the
lead and conducted in-depth interviews with Colgate
People across many functions and geographies. We learned
that people are looking for continuous
opportunities to learn, make an impact and be challenged.
The team used design thinking to reframe and
reshape career opportunities and created a “Build
Your Best Future” at C-P Europe program, which we
are now
activating globally for the entire company.
Colgate Learning Strategy Recognized as Best of the
Best
The
Global
Learning
Team
was
recognized
by
industry
experts
for
the
development
of
its
Commercial
Selling
Skills
learning
program.
This
new
way
of
learning
was
introduced
as
a
‘pop-up’
session,
which
is
a
form
of
blending
traditional
instructor-led
classes
with
experiential
learning.
The
learning
experience
made
complex laws and obligations Colgate must adhere to
easy for the commercial organization to understand.
29
Emplo yee Health and W ellness
Supporting our global Colgate employees includes a
serious commitment to health and wellness. By creating
a
healthy work environment and encouraging Colgate People
to develop healthy habits, we are helping our
employees live longer, more fulﬁlling lives.
Our A pproach
We promote physical, emotional, and ﬁnancial wellness
for Colgate People and their families. Just as we
create products that build brighter futures for everyone,
our goal is to help our people live better every
day by
providing support and resources to help them make
healthy choices at work and at home to live a more
balanced, thriving life.
Key elements of our Employee Health and Wellness Strategy
include:
Prevention Awareness
We offer our people the opportunity to take time for
their health in a variety of ways. Since 2013, we
have offered
our Health & Well-being Assessment to employees around
the world. This assessment allows our employees to
evaluate their health status, understand their risks
and provide conﬁdential feedback to motivate behavior
change. We also provide Colgate People and their families
with access to preventive immunizations, dental care
and conﬁdential HIV testing. This is achieved in
a variety of ways, including onsite medical clinics
and
competitive employer-funded beneﬁt plans and government-provided
plans.
Highlights
Colgate’ s commitment in the fight against HIV/AIDS
is based on our values and our sustainability
commitments to
“Promote Healthier Lives”
and
“Contribute
to the Communities Where W e Live and
Work.”
Every year , on the occasion of W orld AIDS Day
, Colgate
India invites children to their of fice in Mumbai
to salute their spirits, celebrate their courage and
engage with them throughout the day . Every year ,
a
‘wish tree’  is provided consisting of wishes from
each child and through the generosity of our employees,
each wish is fulfilled.
30Supporting Children Living with HIV :
Throughout the year , Colgate India’ s Positive Step Program, in
partnership with the Network in Thane of People Living with HIV , supports a group of 83 children infected
or affected by HIV/AIDS to help provide for their
nutrition and education. Colgate’ s Business Leadership
Program Associates and V olunteers engage with these
children through activity based learning sessions,
which helps them gain confidence. In 2019, in addition
to financial support, Colgate India enhanced its
partnership by launching a mentorship program with
quarterly face-to-face meetings between children
pursuing higher studies and their Colgate mentors.
Colgate is proud of the heartwarming success stories,
including two women who graduated from the program
- one is now a law graduate and is taking her
judgeship exams and another is now employed by a top
media company in the country .
Educating Healthcare Professionals:
Colgate supports
HIVDent, a global non-profit coalition of healthcare
professionals committed to ensuring access to high
quality oral health care services for adults, adolescents
and children living with HIV. The organization educates
professionals about the oral manifestations of HIV
and
provides information on infection control, post-exposure
protocols, and pediatric/adolescent care, and is
a
resource to disseminate treatment best practices.
Commemorating World AIDS Day:
Colgate is committed
to AIDS
prevention and education around the world. Our West
Africa hub made a
monetary donation to an orphanage, helping children
who are victims of
AIDS. Colgate People took time out to volunteer with
the children, deliver
products, help cook nutritious meals and have some
fun playing games.
Remembering Loved Ones:
Colgate remembers those who
have lost
their lives to AIDS by displaying a portion of the
AIDS Memorial Quilt in
our Park Avenue headquarters each December. The Quilt
was conceived
in 1985 by an AIDS activist who asked people to write
the names of loved
ones lost to AIDS-related causes on signs, which were
then displayed
during a candlelight demonstration.
31
Healthy Lifestyles
To support healthy lifestyles, we of fer many programs
focused primarily on physical activity , nutrition
and
tobacco usage. Through these programs, we are able
to educate our employees to help them make better
decisions both at work and at home with their families.
As one of our major focus areas, nutrition is very
important to Colgate. Our strategy includes providing
nutrition education in the form of lunch and learns,
weight loss counseling and cooking demonstrations.
We also partner with our global facility partners
Sodexo and JLL  to provide healthy food options onsite,
increase food labeling and provide dedicated days
or sections featuring healthy food.
As a leading oral care company , Colgate continues
to focus on tobacco cessation as part of Live Better .
Our culture of caring supports good health and encourages
our people to quit tobacco use via local
cessation programs. While Colgate prohibits smoking
within all our buildings, including all manufacturing
facilities, warehouses, technology centers and of fice
buildings, we continue to expand the number of
smoke-free campuses around the world, local laws permitting.
Since 2013, Colgate has of fered a global Health &
Well-being Assessment. In 2019, employees from 67
countries took the assessment. Colgate donated a Bright
Smiles, Bright Futures oral care kit to a
child-in-need for every completed assessment received,
providing children with the tools and education
they need to maintain a healthy smile.
Over the past nine years, our Live Better Global Healthy
Activity Challenge has encouraged all Colgate
employees to track and log at least 500 minutes of
healthy activity in one month. Colgate People engage
colleagues, family , and friends to get active and
earn minutes through a range of activities.
In 2019, more than 18,000 Colgate People from 80 countries
participated in a variety of healthy activities that
ranged from
yoga classes and basketball tournaments to stress
management
workshops. Participants tracked over 23 million minutes
of
healthy activity . In addition to the tracking tool,
we incorporated
a social media campaign asking employees to share
‘What
Moves Them.’   Employees from around the globe shared
their
stories and pictures on our Global Live Better community
located on our intranet site.
”Liver Better”
through aerial yoga classes in Hong
Kong
32
Organizational Support
Around the world, we are committed to creating a culture
of health and wellness through our beneﬁt packages
and employee reward and recognition programs, which
help measure progress and encourage engagement.
Colgate also remains committed to a safe and healthy
work environment with a goal of zero workplace
accidents.
Resilience & Stress
Colgate works to provide opportunities for employees
to achieve work-life balance. While they vary by
geography, programs include:
• Flexible/work-from-home arrangements
• Onsite yoga
• Access to gyms
• Stress management programs
• Subsidized back-up child care
• Elder care assistance and access to counseling services
via Employee Assistance Programs
• Company-sponsored medical programs or government-sponsored
programs
Colgate is committed to ensuring the ﬁnancial well-being
of our employees at every stage of their lives. Our
ﬁnancial well-being programs aim to help Colgate
people learn to live within a budget, fund their children’s
education, ﬁnance their homes and manage their debt.
We also continue to offer comprehensive education
to
both our salaried and non-salaried personnel in the
U.S., including classroom training, webinar programming
and personal ﬁnancial counseling sessions via a third-party
provider.
Benefits
Recognizing that the success of our company is driven
by our talented and dedicated employees, we offer
market-competitive benefit programs including:
• Retirement savings
• Healthcare and wellness plans
• Flexible work and
work-from-home arrangements
• Subsidized tuition benefits
• Subsidized adoption benefits
• Subsidized back-up adult/elder
care
• Subsidized back-up child care
• Subsidized maternity and
paternity leave
• Employee assistance program
• Employee recognition
programs and networking
groups
• Disability insurance
•Financial counseling
• Lifestyle programs
• Critical illness benefit
33Our Commitment t o Univ ersal Human Rights
Colgate has a long-standing commitment to respecting
human and labor rights worldwide and supports the
United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the International Labor Organization (ILO) Core
Labor Standards. Colgate works with and seeks out
business partners who share our commitment to universal
human rights. We recognize the responsibility of businesses
to respect labor rights and engage with
stakeholders adherence to universal human rights.
Protecting human and labor rights is one of our key
sustainability issues.
To learn more about our human rights strategy and
management approach, please see our
Human Rights
Policy
.
Diversity & Inclusion
Workplace Diversity
Colgate-Palmolive People -- more than 34,000 strong
-- reﬂect the diverse richness of the cultures we
serve
around the world. As a company, we celebrate differences,
promote an inclusive environment and value the
contributions of all Colgate People. As we begin to
reimagine Colgate and prepare for the future, we
must also
reimagine how we innovate as a key to catalyze growth
and deliver long-term value to our consumers,
customers, stockholders and other stakeholders. Colgate
is committed to providing employees with an inclusive
work environment, training programs and learning opportunities,
promotion and growth opportunities, to
wellness initiatives and opportunities to contribute
to the communities where we live and work.
We believe that our culture and values afford opportunities
for everyone to have an impact on our business
success. All employees worldwide are provided with
a series of training programs focused on building
leadership skills. Valuing Colgate People, Managing
With Respect and Leading in a Diverse Workplace are
a few
examples of our training programs. Leading in a Diverse
Workplace delivers on the company’s commitment to
creating and sustaining a diverse workplace.
34A critical piece of our diversity strategy is to ensure that our talent management process incorporates the
professional development of women and people of all cultures. Colgate also partners with organizations such
as Catalyst, the Conference Board, Diversity Best
Practices,  National Association for Female Executives,
Working Mother Media, DiversityInc., Diversity MBA,
the American Association for People with Disabilities,
National Organization on Disability, Disability:IN,
Human Rights Campaign, Live Out Loud (LGBTQ+ youth),
American Corporate Partners (veteran mentorships),
Odyssey Media, United Negro College Fund (UNCF),
Latina
Style magazine, Proud To Be Latina, Hispanic Alliance
for Career Enhancement (HACE), Red Shoe Movement,
New York Urban League (NYUL), and the Asian American
Business Development Center to develop an effective
and supportive work environment.
Driven by Colgate’s core value of Caring and supported
by the involvement of Colgate People, our diversity
and
inclusion strategy helps to make a difference in the
communities we serve by supporting organizations
that
address educational disparities, some of which are
listed below:
• Determined To Educate
• Springboard Foundation
• Live Out Loud
• NYC Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
• National Association of Black Accountants (NABA)
• Futures and Options
In 2018, Colgate piloted the Advancing Critical Capabilities
Empowers Leaders (ACCEL) program, a
cross-functional leadership development program for
black leaders within the Colgate community.  The
ACCEL
program is designed to provide participants with a
greater understanding of:
• Growing personal skills to further enable technical
mastery,
• Building strong bonds with others to help achieve
organizational goals,
• Identifying new ways to perform roles to achieve
improved business results,
• Accelerating leadership development to support future
organizational growth, and
• Improving capabilities to be more globally competitive
and inﬂuential.
35In 2019, ACCEL welcomed its second cohort of 21 participants, expanding the focus to leaders in the
non-technical functions, including ﬁnance, human
resources, marketing and customer development. A key
component of the program was the planned interaction
between the ﬁrst two years’ participants.
Participants are challenged in a safe and supportive
environment to identify personal strengths, growth
opportunities and strategies to accelerate their careers
at Colgate. This experience has provided employees
with
the concepts, skills, tools and practices to be valued
partners in order to drive improved business outcomes.
This leadership development program has been instrumental
to retain and enhance the professional
opportunities of the community of future black leaders
within the Colgate-Palmolive family.
To help foster inclusiveness, Colgate supports employee
resource groups made up of team members
representing many different diversity dimensions,
such as sexual orientation, gender equality, gender
expression,
cultural backgrounds and ways of life. Each of these
resource groups contributes to Colgate’s inclusive
work
environment by developing and implementing programming
to promote business and community involvement
as well as cultural awareness. The co-chairs of the
employee resource groups make up the Inclusive Leadership
Council.
A selection of Colgate national employee resource
groups includes:
The
Asian Action Network (AAN)
mission is to foster
an environment of caring and global
teamwork by valuing cultural diversity through programs
that share the richness of Asian
cultures. AAN seeks to provide opportunities for achievement
and professional
development for Colgate people of Asian descent in
order to maximize their full potential
and contribution to our business.
The
Latinx Leadership Network (LLN)
is committed to
build an inclusive community that
encourages professional development, provides meaningful
networking opportunities, and
celebrates leaders making an impact, all while providing
possibility, presence and
professional development for Hispanic/Latinx Colgate
People and Allies.
The
Colgate Parents Network (CPN)
supports our quest
to raise safe, happy, healthy,
educated children - while balancing our commitments
to our professions.
36
The
Black Leadership Network (BLN)
promotes Colgate-Palmolive's
strategic initiatives
by maximizing the potential of Black Professionals
through leadership and career
development, relationship building, fostering inclusiveness
and community engagement.
The
Colgate JumpStart Network (CJN)
provides an outlet
for Early-at-Colgate
professionals to actively engage with the community,
develop professionally and
positively contribute to Colgate's business objectives.
The
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Allies
Network (LGBT&A)
provides
opportunities for visible collaboration, advocacy,
professional development, and social
networking for Colgate people. This will enable us
to be recognized as we contribute our
unique talents and skills to Colgate's global business
success and community goals.
The
Colgate Abilities Network (CAN)
ensures Colgate's
business goals are connected to
the global disability market and serves as a valued
resource to our Colgate colleagues
around the world. In doing so, we will foster Colgate's
inclusive environment that cares
deeply for and provides an equal opportunity for people
with disabilities.
The
Colgate Women’s Network (CWN)
develops and supports
the advancement of
women to drive Colgate's innovative growth strategy
that is reimagining a healthier future
for all people, their pets and our planet.
.
In addition to the employee resource groups, senior
management has formed Diversity Leadership Councils
which are committed to driving our diversity & inclusion
strategy in support of the Company’s business
37
objectives. Each leadership council consists of mid-senior level, cross-functional management teams appointed
by the division/function leader. The councils operate
under established charters with a mission and set
of
operating and decision-making standards. They are
helping drive a culture of diversity and inclusion
by:
• Providing regional and functional leadership with
a framework to establish more effective/eﬃcient
talent
management and inclusive leadership practices
• Establishing clear diversity objectives and accountability
• Driving a more focused approach to managing high-potential,
high-performance career enhancement and
upward mobility of women and diverse talent
• Encouraging people to lead, utilizing their diverse
backgrounds, leadership competencies and varying
perspectives
• Creating opportunities for cross-functional and
cross-generational work teams and interactions
• Driving strategies and initiatives to support Colgate
People en route to a truly inclusive world-class
workforce at all levels
Celebrating Diversity and Inclusion:
• Colgate-Palmolive is a founding member of Women
Unlimited, Inc., which
provides mentoring, education, and networking to women
leaders. To
celebrate the 25th anniversary of our partnership,
in 2019, we rang the
closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange with program
alumni.
• Recognizing a lack of inclusive content about oral
health for hearing-impaired
children, Colgate UK created
Sign Language Tales
,
a collection of stories lasting
two minutes that make teeth brushing enjoyable for
children.
• Colgate continues its commitment to American Corporate
Partners (ACP), a
national non-proﬁt organization dedicated to helping
post-9/11 veterans
successfully transition back into the private sector.
Since 2014, more than 104
Colgate employees have volunteered with ACP to help
214 returning veterans
through one-on-one mentoring, networking and providing
online career advice.
38
• In 2019, WORLDPRIDE came to New York City to mark
the 50th
anniversary of the Stonewall uprising. Colgate People
in New York’s
tri-state area volunteered at World Pride events and
the NYC Pride
Parade where we reached over 350,000 people with our
#SmileWithPride message.
• The Colgate Jumpstart Network (CJN) featured Marie
Morcie, head of
sustainable ﬁnance at the UN Global Compact, as a
guest speaker to
celebrate Earth Day. The agenda included a presentation
on how
businesses can use ﬁnancial tools to address some
of the most
important sustainability challenges, bringing Colgate
experts from
different functions to discuss sustainability-related
matters. The Earth
Day event also included a Recycling Challenge, a fun
activity for Colgate
People to learn the best practices of recycling in
the oﬃce.
• C-P Brazil celebrated 10 years of partnership with
the APAE DE SÃO PAULO (Association of Parents and
Friends of Exceptional Children) which promotes the
health, education and skill development of people
with
intellectual disabilities. C-P Brazil currently has
55 professionals who are part of the APAE program
working at
the company.
• The Hispanic Action Network led a workshop reaching
about 150 students at the Hispanic Alliance for Career
Enhancement (HACE) annual NYC STEM conference. Colgate
is committed to educating employees about the
dangers of drug overdose. In 2018, Colgate launched
Opioid Awareness seminars and webinars to ensure
Colgate People were informed on this topic.  Employees
were provided with the company policy on alcohol
and
substance abuse and information on our employee assistance
program.
39
Equal P ay
Colgate is committed to pay equity and its role in
fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace. It is
our policy to
select, place, and pay all Colgate People on the basis
of qualiﬁcation for the work performed, without
discrimination. Consistent with these values, Colgate
has committed to conducting an annual company-wide
gender pay analysis across occupations in the United
States, along with other steps to promote equal pay
and
fairness. This annual pay analysis covers race and
ethnicity in addition to gender, in accordance with
Colgate’s
policy, to compensate each individual at a level commensurate
with his or her role, work location, individual
performance, and experience irrespective of gender,
race, ethnicity, or any other category protected
by law.
Colgate also complies with all applicable laws and
regulations related to fair pay practices.
Supplier Div ersity
Established in 1998, our Supplier Diversity program
is embedded in our U.S.- based organization with
clear
goals to drive growth. We drive performance through
our quarterly Supplier Diversity Forums, and we
collaborate with our suppliers to support our goals.
Our procurement teams are encouraged to seek suppliers
that add value and innovation while also delivering
cost savings.
Approach
We maintain accountability by incorporating high standards
and objectives for Supplier Diversity for
procurement buyers and managers. Our competitive proposal
processes include fostering a continuously
diverse network of suppliers. Suppliers interested
in doing business with us may register and upload
their
current certiﬁcation documents to our supplier diversity
database. As part of the registration process, the
supplier provides content including basic company
information, capabilities, and certiﬁcation documents.
The
database is a highly eﬃcient way for suppliers to
share their capabilities and learn about business
opportunities. We also collaborate with our internal
stakeholders to identify needs and research diverse
suppliers with relevant capabilities.
40Progress
We have made progress toward these goals in 2019:
• To support our supplier diversity goals, our teams
have set objectives such as inclusion of diversity
spend
requirements in contracts with ﬁrst-tier suppliers,
maximizing second-tier spend opportunities and
executing targeted supplier day forums to engage and
build relationships. In 2019, Colgate spent 5.9
percent of our total U.S. procurement spend of $3
billion with diverse suppliers.
We have expanded our supplier partners to bring value
and mitigate risk:
•
We began work on a program in North America related
to Maintenance, Repair and Operations (MRO)
procurement for our Hill’s and Colgate manufacturing
facilities. In partnership with Turtle & Hughes
Integrated Supply (THIS), a certiﬁed women-owned
business that prides itself on diversity, we piloted
this
program at two manufacturing facilities, Cambridge,
Ohio and Emporia, Kansas, with an estimated spend
of $5 million. Expansion of this program to additional
locations could increase our spend up to $30
million, helping our suppliers grow.
•
We facilitated the diverse supplier certiﬁcation
process for our temporary labor agency, Nextsource,
to
be designated as a woman-owned-and-operated entity.
Nextsource provides us with factory workers and
accounts for approximately $10 million of our annual
budget.
Supplier Diversity Recognition
Colgate has been recognized and awarded for various
achievements in  supplier diversity, including
these 2019 recognitions:
• Top 50 Corporations for Diversity by DiversityInc.com
• Women’ s President Education Organization [WPEO]
recognized for commitment to the
success of women-owned business enterprises
41Envir onment Health and Saf ety
Colgate is committed to ensuring the ﬁnancial well-being
of our employees at every stage of their lives. Our
ﬁnancial well-being programs aim to help Colgate
people learn to live within a budget, fund their children’s
education, ﬁnance their homes and manage their debt.
We also continue to offer comprehensive education
to
both our salaried and non-salaried personnel in the
U.S., including classroom training, webinar programming
and
personal ﬁnancial counseling sessions via a third-party
provider.
Colgate’s global health and safety program is grounded
in our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS)
Standards. Although we do not participate in the ISO
45001: 2018 and ISO 14001:2015 certiﬁcation systems,
our
management system and technical standards expectations
are well aligned with them. Our EHS Management
System is assessed annually by Apex Service (formerly
Bureau Veritas).  We have received an Equivalency
Statement from Apex that the content and approach
for the Colgate EHS Management System are equivalent
to
ISO Standards 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018. Each
Colgate-Palmolive facility/organization develops
appropriate EHS site-speciﬁc management system elements
to ensure ongoing compliance, reduce future
risks/liabilities and respond to changing requirements.
Management systems should meet or exceed all
applicable local, regional, and national laws and
regulations, in addition to meeting the Company Standards.
Colgate leverages risk assessments and a hierarchy
of controls in the following standards: management
systems, personal protective equipment and exposure
assessment standards, material handling, and
walk-working surfaces to identify higher levels of
control based on the level of risk potentially present.
Colgate sites are expected to self-assess conformance
with our standards and local regulations at 18-month
intervals. Corporate audits are conducted every three
to ﬁve years, closure progress is reported quarterly
and
veriﬁcation audits are conducted to provide closure
assurance. In 2019, we commenced conducting blended
EHS audits with a third-party vendor.  The objective
was to complete a deeper review of regulatory compliance
and adherence to critical risk standards and elements.
We have a global partnership with a third-party
industrial hygiene ﬁrm. Our operations are evaluated
annually to ensure occupational health exposures
are well
controlled. Any identiﬁed exposures are managed using
the hierarchy of controls. Closure of previously
identiﬁed exposures is veriﬁed by the third-party
industrial hygiene provider.
42We also provide numerous safety training programs as an important part of our safety management strategy.
We offer 150 e-learning courses, which are available
in as many as eight languages. Courses cover a range
of
topics, such as EHS incident management, hearing conservation,
ergonomics in the workplace, conﬁned space
entry, ﬁre safety emergency, safe work practices
and industrial hygiene. We augment e-learning with
site-and
operational-speciﬁc on-the-job training to ensure
thorough understanding of expectations and requirements.
We
also conduct evacuation and emergency preparedness
drills across our sites to ensure we are prepared
in the
event of unforeseen circumstances.
In 2019, our Home Care liquids plant in Cambridge,
Ohio completed an emergency response drill with local
emergency responders including representatives from
the local ﬁre department, police department, emergency
services, ambulance, as well as site participants.
The drill simulated a chemical release/spill in
the base plant
that required clean-up and responding to “injured”
personnel.
The Colgate EHS Management System contains speciﬁc
provisions for identifying EHS training needs and
establishing corresponding tracking processes to ensure
all required training is completed.  Training is
also
mandated when there are new chemicals, equipment and/or
processes implemented in the Management of
Change-Planning section of the Colgate EHS Management
System.
Our 2019 safety results showed improved performance
in both our total recordable rate (TRR) and lost
workday case rate (LWCR). Our total recordable rate
(TRR) was 0.20 (84 recordable incidents), down from
0.22
in 2018. This represents the lowest number of recordable
accidents reported in one calendar year in the
history of Colgate. Our lost workday case rate (LWCR)
was 0.05 (21 lost workday incidents), which was a
slight
reduction versus 2018. In 2019, we experienced 15
accidents – ranging from fractures to hospitalizations
–
43
which Colgate considered “serious” according to the Colgate
Accident/Incident Reporting and Recordkeeping Standard.
This
represents a slight improvement versus 2018 results
for serious
accidents.  We are proud to report zero work-related
fatalities in
2019 across all facilities and operations.
In 2019, we received independent third-party veriﬁcation
of our
health and safety data collection and reporting processes
as well
as the data itself. As part of this project, the number
of hours
worked, number of lost-time incidents, number of recordable
incidents and number of occupational fatalities were
veriﬁed at
select sites.
The
President’s Safety Award Program
recognizes Colgate
sites when they achieve speciﬁc milestones of
time in years and/or hours without a Lost Workday
Injury or Illness. In 2019, 28 of our manufacturing
facilities, global technology centers and warehouse
facilities received one or more awards. Our Baddi
plant
in India achieved 11 years without a lost workday
incident by focusing on foundational EHS program
elements: Ergonomics, Electrical Safety, Noise Conservation
and Training programs.
To continue to maintain our world-class safety performance,
we evolved our critical risk programs in 2019 to
focus on identiﬁcation, mitigation and elimination
of critical risk incidents, accidents and tasks.
Our approach
involves establishing foundational culture and engagement,
ensuring visible and active leadership, having
sound technical programs and solutions to control
hazards and reduce/mitigate risks.
Our Hill’s Hustopece plant developed an electronic
Safe Work Permit (SWP) tool to help ensure critical
risk
tasks are properly reviewed and evaluated before the
commencement of work activities. The SWP system
ensures all key requirements are properly documented,
with deﬁned controls established for each risk
identiﬁed. The individual SWP data points are collected
in a database, which enables the site to evaluate
issues, trends, and areas for improvement.
44
2019 Saf ety Highlights
Risk-Based Management
We continue to sharpen our focus on risk-based safety
management with a goal to eliminate serious incidents
and fatalities. This approach involves evaluating
the risk severity for tasks conducted in our operations,
and
ensuring the appropriate controls are in place to
prevent an adverse outcome.  In 2019, our program
emphasized establishing and communicating appropriate
controls to reduce and mitigate critical risks and
serious incidents and fatalities. This expectation
has been formally incorporated into our EHS Management
System and Audit Program.
Colgate’s EHS Management System requires all sites
to conduct an annual risk assessment of site critical
risks and establish a corresponding corrective action
plan that is reviewed by site leadership.  The plan
is also
reviewed during business reviews with senior leadership
twice yearly. All employees are obligated to report
at-risk conditions, behaviors and/or near misses.
These incidents are either tracked in the company-wide
Incident Management System or are tracked locally.
As an element of the Colgate EHS Management System,
sites are also expected to develop inspection programs
involving all levels of site leadership (salaried
and
clerical) and shop ﬂoor employees to identify gaps
related to conditions/physical systems and behaviors
and
establish appropriate mechanisms to provide feedback
and address corrective actions.
EHS Technology Solutions
Colgate is embracing technology solutions to reduce
EHS risks. Our North America and Latin America EHS
Teams have developed the platform that will become
our global approach when assessing technology
applications to align with our business needs and
EHS risks.  The platform is based on the following
criteria:
45
In 2019, Colgate hosted
a special benchmarking session
entitled: “Wearable & Evolving
Technologies” through
our partnership with ORCHSE Strategies that was attended
by 11 external companies.  Innovative technologies
were presented that included wearable sensors for:
• Ergonomic risks
• Lone worker and heat stress
• Machine guarding circuit reliability
• Driver monitoring
• Body positioning kinetics
Colgate will continue to leverage platforms like this
going forward to ‘get external’ and share learnings
with
peer companies.
Occupational Health
Colgate has established appropriate Occupational Medical
Standards designed to assess medical surveillance
requirements/needs for employees potentially exposed
to chemical, physical and/or biological agents.
The
Occupational Medical Standards work in concert with
the Colgate Industrial Hygiene Standards. Additionally,
our sites are expected to adhere to all applicable
local legislative requirements.
Reducing Noise, Dust and Chemical Exposures
Colgate continues to strive to reduce noise, dust
and chemical exposures at our facilities.  Our goal
is to
reduce the number of people who must wear hearing
protection or chemical cartridge respirators to reduce
their exposure below the applicable acceptable limit.
In 2019, we observed improvements in the percentage
of
employees required to wear mandatory hearing and respiratory
protection as compared to 2018:
46
While we have not signiﬁcantly reduced the need to use hearing protection, our toothbrush manufacturing and
stand-alone warehouse facilities have eliminated the
use of mandatory respiratory protection. We continue
to
push towards reducing mandatory use of hearing and
respiratory protection.
Critical Risk Top 10
In 2019, Colgate launched an enterprise-wide, integrated
EHS risk reduction strategy directed at minimizing
impacts of elements that have been historically linked
to adverse events and outcomes.  The program
challenges our sites globally to assess the state
of the current programs, assess risk and controls
in-place and
ensure the process is sustainable. Wherever possible,
sites are expected to leverage higher levels of control
to
mitigate risk - engineering, substitution and/or elimination.
Our global sites are working on a multi-year plan
to ensure that robust systems and controls are in
place to
address and mitigate potential risks.  Updates will
be reported into a Corporate tracking system and
presented
at budget and business reviews.
Safety Incentives
We have improved our safety-related incentive mechanisms
by linking compensation to behaviors that drive a
robust safety culture. These behaviors include training
completion, physical inspections, corrective action
47
completion, behavioral observations, and participation in activities that engage employees. We do not link
compensation to recordable rates and lost-time accidents.
Colgate records all work-related injuries and illnesses
in an Incident Management System (IMS).  All
site-related incidents involving employees, temporary
employees, tenant contractors, contractors and/or
visitors are reported in the system.  The IMS is assessed
annually by Apex Services (formerly Bureau Veritas).
Apex has indicated that Colgate Palmolive has established
appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation
and analysis of quantitative data.  Colgate leverages
risk assessments and hierarchy of controls in the
following Standards: Management Systems, Personal
Protective Equipment, Exposure Assessment Standard,
Material Handling and Walk-Working Surfaces to identify
higher levels of control based on the level of risk
potentially present.
2019 Safety Week Highlights
Each year, Colgate holds a company-wide Safety Week
during which we share best practices and refreshes
our
commitment to a robust health and safety culture grounded
in our EHS Guiding Principles. This week remains
a cornerstone of our safety culture and provides an
opportunity to focus on fundamentals. Each facility’s
own
creativity delivers a solid and exciting week and
often includes Colgate families in fun and educational
activities.
The themes for Safety Week 2019 at our manufacturing
sites included: hand safety campaigns and chemical
and process safety.  Speciﬁc themes were also executed
for our warehouses, Global Technology Centers and
oﬃce locations. Some of the activities addressed
by our sites included chemical spill and emergency
evacuation drills, hand ‘trap’ assessments, assessment
of site chemical hazards and risks and engaging
external speakers to address key points of safety
important to Colgate people at all of our facilities.
Our site in Bangpapong, Thailand, had an engaging
Safety Week
in 2019 that included a Children’s Hand Safety Art
Contest,
Emergency Evacuation Drills, Safety Culture Enhancement,
a
team-based Critical Risk Assessment and other engaging
EHS
activities ranging from training to personal protective
equipment
demonstrations from local suppliers.
48
Responsible Sour cing
Third Party Code of Conduct
Colgate People are committed to the highest standards
of integrity and full compliance with the Company’s
Code of Conduct. It is our goal to ensure that our
relationships with our suppliers and business partners
reﬂect
and support those same high ethical standards.
Colgate’s Third Party Code of Conduct establishes
the company’s expectations for suppliers and business
partners in a number of critical areas, including
labor practices and universal human rights, protecting
the
environment, health and safety, and ethical dealings.
Sections of the Third Party Code are modeled on,
or
contain language from, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights and the standards of the International
Labor
Organization.
The Code is provided to suppliers and business partners,
and Colgate’s contracts and purchase orders typically
require suppliers to abide by the Code’s standards
(or suppliers’ comparable code standards), including
applicable labor and equal employment laws as well
as environmental, occupational health and safety
regulations, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and
Colgate’s Anti-Bribery policy.
SUPPLIER RESPONSIBLE SOURCING ASSESSMENTS
Through the Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment
program, Colgate has assessed the performance of
more than 80 percent of our suppliers in high-risk
geographies since 2012, driving improved working
conditions for more than 60,000 employees across our
external supply chain.
Assessing and Managing Supplier Risk
As a multinational company with a global supply chain,
adverse actions and events associated with our supply
chain could affect Colgate’s reputation as a responsible
company. To manage the risk to the company and to
the workers in our supply chain, Colgate has a formal
process to identify and manage social, ethical and
environmental risks in our supply chain and with other
business partners.
Colgate’s Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment
(SRSA) program requires selected suppliers and
business partners to complete a self-assessment focused
on labor practices, human rights, worker health and
49safety, environmental management and business integrity. Risk factors considered in the selection of suppliers
to participate in the program include: geographic
risks (using the Verisk Maplecroft Risk Indexes),
Colgate’s
in-country knowledge, industry-associated risks and
business criticality to our operations. Through the
use of a
supplier risk assessment scorecard, selected suppliers
and business partners are scored against critical
risk
factors to determine the need to conduct a social
compliance audit. When a supplier is assessed as high
risk,
a third-party audit of its facility is required. To
date, there are currently 610 suppliers and service
providers in
the program and 50% have conducted a social compliance
audit.
As a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange
(Sedex), Colgate uses the Sedex Members Ethical Trade
Audit (SMETA) protocol when required to assess suppliers’
compliance with laws covering freedom of
association, forced and child labor, health and safety,
wages and beneﬁts, working hours and discrimination
as
well as environmental and business ethics matters.
Since the program’s inception in 2012, Colgate has
assessed more than 80 percent of our spend, including:
raw material and packaging suppliers, contract
manufacturers, co-packing facilities and warehousing
operations. Beginning in late 2018, we expanded our
risk
assessment scope to include third-party labor providers
in our Asia operations with other regions to be
included in subsequent years.  Internally, Colgate
has also completed assessments of all manufacturing
facilities and conducted social compliance audits
at all facilities located in high-risk geographies.
Colgate is also a member of AIM-PROGRESS, a global
industry forum dedicated to the promotion of
responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production
systems.Through the principle of mutual audit
recognition, suppliers share noncompetitive audit
data with other manufacturing companies that often
use the
same suppliers, enabling us to gain information more
eﬃciently and relieving the burden of “audit fatigue”
on
suppliers.
To further drive improvement in our supply chain,
Colgate has participated in capacity-building sessions
AIM-PROGRESS that are designed to improve supplier’s
social and environmental performance. We have
participated in events in Latin America and North
America. In addition, Colgate conducts similar independent,
responsible sourcing training events for our suppliers.
Forced Labor
Colgate does not use forced labor within our own operations,
and we strive to eradicate forced labor from our
supply and value chains. We are committed to the Consumer
Goods Forum (CGF) Resolution on Forced Labor
and the Priority Industry Principles (PIP). We believe
that every worker should have freedom of movement,
no
50worker should pay for a job and no worker should be indebted or coerced to work.  Moreover, it is Colgate’s
policy not to work with any supplier or contractor
known to operate with forced labor.
In June 2017, Colgate published our disclosure statement,
“Respecting Human Rights and Labor Rights:
Disclosure Statements,”
in compliance with requirements
of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act
and the UK Modern Slavery Act and consistent with
the CGF Social Resolution.  In 2018, to further strengthen
our actions on ﬁghting forced labor, we revised our
employee
Code of Conduct
and our
Third Party Code
of
Conduct
to incorporate additional language reﬂecting
our expectations on respecting human and labor rights
and commitment to the CGF PIP.  In addition, we published
a
Third-Party Labor Provider Recruitment and
Employment Standard
and a labor provider risk assessment
methodology with the objective of establishing
expectations and evaluating the risk of forced labor
where third party employees, such as temporary workers,
are working in Colgate’s operations.
Conﬂict Minerals
Colgate supports ending the violence and human rights
violations by armed groups in the Democratic Republic
of Congo (DRC) and neighboring countries that have
been funded in part by proceeds from the mining of
cassiterite, columbite-tantalite (coltan), wolframite
and gold, including their derivatives tin, tantalum,
and
tungsten (3TGs). Conﬂict minerals are sourced from
the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining
countries like Angola, Republic of Congo, Central
African Republic, Rwanda, Tanzania, Zambia, Burundi,
South
Sudan and Uganda.
All of our suppliers that currently use 3TGs in our
products have been assessed. Our suppliers are expected
to
only source 3TGs to Colgate that are sourced from
mines outside the DRC and neighboring countries or
from
smelters and reﬁners that have been designated as
Conﬂict-Free by the Responsible Minerals Sourcing
Initiative (formerly known as the Conﬂict-Free Sourcing
Initiative).
For more information, see Colgate’s
Policy on Conﬂict
Minerals
.
51Oral Health E ducation
Background
Providing oral health education is a Colgate tradition
dating back to 1911. Today, Colgate’s ﬂagship Bright
Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) program is among the
most far-reaching, successful children’s oral health
initiatives in the world. With progress in 2018, BSBF
has reached more than 1 billion children and their
families
in over 80 countries since 1991. This is made possible
by partnering with educators, parents, dental
professionals, academic institutions, government,
and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), such as
the
Alliance for a CavityFree Future, the American Dental
Association, the Global Child Dental Fund, the National
Dental Association and Save the Children, among others.
The cornerstone of BSBF is its award-winning
educational curriculum. Developed by global experts,
the multicultural education materials help illustrate
how
to maintain healthy teeth and gums, and are implemented
in more than 80 countries in 30 languages each
year. In several countries, the program materials
are part of the permanent school curriculum.
Approach
We have an ambitious target to educate 1.3 billion
children through our BSBF program by the year 2020.
To
date, we have grown BSBF through leveraging our six-point
plan:
In School —
Colgate partners with local schools, ministries
of health and ministries of education to
organize oral health educational classes, and provide
free oral health products. In the U.S., 3.5 million
children across all 50 states, nearly nine out of
every 10 kindergarten students, participated in BSBF’s
classroom curriculum.
Community Relations —
In some countries, BSBF is mobile.
In the U.S., BSBF provides a ﬂeet of nine mobile
dental vans based in hub-cities working with dental
professionals, non-professional volunteers, and the
community to provide education, dental screenings
and treatment referrals annually. Each year, the BSBF
dental vans reach over 10 million children in under-served
rural and urban communities. Of those reached,
1.8 million children received $57 million in donated
dental care.
Employee Engagement —
In 2019, over 23% of Colgate
employees worldwide volunteered through BSBF
and gave back to the local communities where we do
business.
52Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC)/Trade Partner —
With retail partners, such as Walmart in
the U.S. and Tesco in the U.K., BSBF engages consumers
at local stores and online. Educating
consumers about the importance of improving oral health
is a priority in each market where we do
business because making good oral health a reality
is also good for business.
Digital —
Educational resources are provided online,
including downloadable teachers’ guides, videos,
oral health games and apps, which are available in
the Apple iTunes and Google Play stores.
Professional Partnerships —
Colgate partners with
government health agencies, NGOs and dental
associations to expand the reach of oral care education
around the world.
Highlights
• In 2019, Colgate's Bright Smiles, Bright Futures®
program, held the largest
ever toothbrushing participation event in Malaysia.
In partnership with the
Ministry of Education, State Education Oﬃce, and
the Alliance for a Cavity-Free
Future, a total of 3,245 students came together to
brush their teeth
simultaneously, pledging for a 'Brighter Future with
Zero Cavities.' Since 2010,
BSBF has reached nearly 4 million children in Malaysia
with oral health
education.
• In October 2019, BSBF launched its Smile Agents
volunteer online training
program, which trains employees on the BSBF initiative,
oral health and correct
brushing techniques, to equip them with the knowledge
required to participate
in BSBF activities and continue improving children's
oral health around the
world. After completion, all participants receive
a certiﬁcate to become an
oﬃcial BSBF Smile Agent.
• In Ghana, our BSBF team partnered with SOS Children’s
Villages International to celebrate World Oral Health
Day with 2,000 school children, celebrating the theme:
“Say Ahh! Act on Mouth Health.”
53
•
C-P India Limited
joined hands with the Indian Association of Public Health
Dentistry (IAPHD) and Kalinga Institute of Social
Sciences (KISS), Bhubaneswar, to
raise Oral Health awareness in India, setting a new
Guinness World Record for the
largest number of people brushing their teeth simultaneously
at a single venue. To
create this new Guinness World Record, 26,382 people
including students, Institute
staff and children from local communities gathered
at KISS, to brush at the same
time with Colgate Strong Teeth toothpaste and Colgate
toothbrushes.
• Colgate’s commitment to increasing access to children’s
oral health and education
in the community includes a strategic partnership
with Save the Children, an
international nonproﬁt organization that seeks to
give children a healthy start in life,
the opportunity to learn and protection from harm.
Since 2017, the partnership has
reached over 300,000 children around the world. In
2019 alone, BSBF and Save the
Children reached more than 175,000 children with oral
health education in Bolivia,
Colombia, Dominican, Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Laos, Mexico,
Myanmar, Tanzania, Thailand and the U.S.
• In  July 2019, in the U.S., Colgate launched its
new
Colgate® Magik
augmented
reality toothbrush and app that helps children ages
5-10 develop healthy brushing
habits to bring out their best smile. This interactive
experience entertains kids to
brush effectively and allows parents to track their
progress. Colgate® Magik
partnered with BSBF to donate a toothbrush to a child
in need for every Magik brush
sold.
• For National Tooth Brushing Day, C-P Papua New Guinea
brought 430,000 people together to brush
their teeth for three minutes as part of our BSBF
program.
• After C-P Mexico helped pioneer a Daily Toothbrushing
Law requiring Mexico City public schools to include
oral
care in the curriculum, Veracruz State joined the
effort. To support this public policy, Colgate provides
students with
toothbrushes and toothpaste for school and home use.
Four more Mexican states aimed to join in 2019 as
Colgate
advocated for a nationwide standard. Colgate’s Latin
American Division would also like to replicate this
approach in
other countries in the region.
54
Handwashing E ducation
The simple act of washing hands with soap is one of
the most effective ways to prevent disease transmission,
especially among children. However, handwashing with
soap is not always widely practiced. As a leading
marketer of bar and liquid hands soaps, Colgate-Palmolive,
through its brands Protex, Palmolive and Softsoap,
is
working with public health oﬃcials, academia, local
schools, and clinics to educate millions of children
and their
families about the health and hygiene beneﬁts of
handwashing with soap. Our global handwashing program
provides educational materials and sample products
to schools and communities, and builds awareness
through advertising and public relations campaigns.
In some countries, Colgate teaches handwashing as
part of
our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures® (BSBF) oral care
education program, building education about proper
handwashing into the oral care curriculum and messaging.
Like the oral care component of BSBF, the program
creates shared value for both Colgate and society,
helping to improve health outcomes while building
brand
awareness and reputation for Colgate’s Palmolive and
Protex soap brands.
We recognize we have a profound responsibility ― now
more than ever ―  to protect people. In response
to
the COVID-19 pandemic, Colgate committed its support
to the World Health Organization (WHO) on its
#SafeHands effort, mobilizing a number of its production
facilities around the world to produce and donate
25
million soap bars to help stop the spread of the COVID-19
virus in the regions facing acute needs. Colgate mobilized
ﬁve of its manufacturing plants on three continents
to
produce the new soap. The soap is specially packaged
with instructions on proper handwashing to amplify
the
WHO #SafeHands message.
Colgate also committed to provide $20 million in health
and hygiene products to community-based
organizations in the U.S. and abroad that have the
infrastructure to distribute the donated product
to those
most in need in local communities. Local Colgate teams
support frontline medical and emergency care
workers, and the most vulnerable populations, including
in New York, where Colgate donated health and
hygiene products to local hospitals, medical professionals,
and nonproﬁt organizations serving the
homeless. The Company’s Tom’s of Maine subsidiary
has provided more than $500,000 in product and
55
cash to support local COVID-19 relief efforts. Hill’s Pet Nutrition is also supporting animal shelters and pet
fostering efforts through product and ﬁnancial donations.
In addition, the Company launched an employee matching
gift campaign for all 34,000 Colgate employees
around the world. Colgate will match $1 million in
employee donations, which will go to nonproﬁt partners
supporting those in need, such as WHO, Save the Children
and CARE, among others.
Highlights
• Colgate was one of the nine founding members of
the Global
Handwashing Day campaign, among other organizations
such as
the World Bank and UNICEF. Celebrated October 15th,
Global
Handwashing Day drives awareness of the vital importance
of
handwashing with soap and its impact on health.
• For many years, Protex has been carrying out a handwashing
campaign in Latin America, to raise awareness about
the importance of
handwashing hygiene in preserving good health.  Children
are taught
proper handwashing techniques along with reinforcing
our global
commitment to “Making Every Drop of Water Count.”
• Supporting WASH [water, sanitation and hygiene]
programs is part of Colgate’s Water Stewardship
Strategy and our commitment to partner with local
and global
organizations to bring clean water to underserved
areas of the world.
Through our partnership with Water For People, Colgate
supports
programs that provide access to clean water, sanitation
systems, and
health and hygiene education, including handwashing.
Colgate has
contributed to the Water For People’s “Everyone Forever”
program,
helping them to reach over 460,000 people since 2013.
Water F or People - Santa Cruz del Quiché, Guatemala
56
Helping P ets Find a Home
Hill’s mission is to help enrich and lengthen the
special relationship between people and
their pets. Through the Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love™
program, Colgate partners with animal
shelters across the U.S. to provide discounted Hill’s
pet food, training, digital tools and
content, as well as shelter visuals. For pet owners,
Hill’s provides Science Diet adoption
kits with coupons and access to a new pet parent website.
Hill’s believes the combination
of loving shelter care as well as premium nutrition
helps to make pets healthy and happy so they are
ready to go to their forever home. In 2019, through
this partnership with animal shelters, we provided
pet food with a retail value of more than $3.2 million,
and helped more than 724,000 dogs and cats ﬁnd
new homes.
Hill’s also partners to provide emergency food shipments
to shelters and veterinary hospitals in the
event of a disaster through its Disaster Relief Network.
In 2019, Hill’s responded to 20 emergencies
across the U.S. and shipped over 33,000 pounds of
pet food to more than 56 unique organizations in
communities affected by the disaster.
Highlights
• In 2019, Hill’s was proud to return as a national
sponsor of
NBCUniversal’s “Clear The Shelters” nationwide pet
adoption
campaign. Over 1,900 shelters participated and more
than
161,000 pets were adopted during this campaign. Over
400
Colgate and Hill’s People volunteered to work at participating
shelters near them on Clear The Shelters Day, Saturday,
August
17.
•In addition to Colgate donating relief funds to the
American Red Cross and products to Americares,
Hill’s donated food to Florida shelters and worked
with the International Fund for Animal Welfare, and
others, to get food to pets affected by hurricanes
in the Bahamas.
57
Community Giving
Colgate contributes both funding and products to a
wide range of charities and community organizations
around the world. Colgate also partners with retailers,
consumers, and our employees to raise funds. Driven
by Colgate’s core value of Caring and supported by
the involvement of Colgate People, our Global Giving
Program makes a difference in the communities we serve
by supporting organizations that address health
and educational disparities.
Colgate’s giving priorities are:
1. Creating educational opportunities
2. Advancing health and well-being
3. Engaging Colgate people
2019 Contributions  $54 million*
* Cash and in-kind contributions to charitable
organizations, including spending for the Bright
Smiles, Bright Futures program in Colgate’s 20 largest
subsidiaries (by oral care
sales
Creating Educational Opportunities
•
Community has always been a top priority at Colgate.
One of our proudest
initiatives is Estrellas Colgate in Mexico, a non-proﬁt
fully funded by Colgate
since 1980 to help low-income children foster good
habits and gain education
through athletic and health programs.
•
Colgate is proud to partner with the YMCA to help
Black and Hispanic teens from underserved communities
and
schools have access to quality educational programs
like Y Scholars. We are a proud sponsor of the Hispanic
Achiever Awards and College Scholarships.
• In 2019, Colgate-Palmolive India under its Keep
India Smiling Mission launched the
Keep India Smiling
Foundational
Scholarship program
, in partnership with the ShikshaDaan
Foundation and technology partner Buddy4Study. This
initiative aims to reach more deserving people by
offering not just ﬁnancial aid but also mentorship
at a foundation
level for academics, sports, and community betterment
programs. To date, the program has received 65,000
applications.
58
•
To promote the importance of education among Latinos and help them on the path to
higher education, Colgate in partnership with the
Hispanic Heritage Foundation sponsors
the Haz la U educational grant program. This program
awards 31 educational grants
totaling $100,000. This initiative is committed to
preparing future generations of Latinos
and to giving them the tools to become leaders in
their communities.
• The Colgate Women’s Games continues to be the
largest amateur women’s indoor track and ﬁeld series
in
the U.S. For 46 years, this program has helped young
girls and women develop a
strong sense of personal achievement and self-esteem,
value teamwork and
appreciate the importance of education. Open and free
to all participants, Colgate
Women’s Games has awarded more than $2.6 million in
educational grants-in-aid.
And to date, 26 Colgate Women’s Games alumni have
gone on to compete in the
Olympics!
• Started in 2016,
Colgate’s Seva Mandir Education
Scholarship Program
,
today provides 50 Indian children from the tribal
villages of Udaipur,
Rajasthan, with a quality education. This program
supports the entire
education cost, hostel stay, travel and bridge classes,
including sports
initiatives for each child enrolled in the program.
Advancing Health and Well-being
• Colgate’s Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program
which began in India in 1976 in
partnership with the Indian Dental Association (IDA),
is committed to spreading
awareness and education among children about oral
care. BSBF has touched
the lives of approximately 170 million school children
between the ages of 6
through 14 across rural and urban India. With the
use of visual aids, BSBF
volunteers teach children about the importance of
oral care and the right
techniques of brushing.
59
• In South Africa, Colgate sponsors the dental clinic within the two Phelophepa Trains, treating over 23,000 people in
many communities where medical services and infrastructure
are unavailable.  More than 125,000 people were
reached through outreach programmes where screening
and education took place.
Engaging Colgate P eople
• Tom’s of Maine continues its practice of donating
10% of proﬁts each year to nonproﬁt organizations
committed to
causes, such as environmental sustainability, human
health and education, and environmental sustainability.
In 2019,
Tom’s of Maine donated over $1 million to the Nature
Conservancy, with funding directed towards water
conservation
efforts. The funded projects support important regional
needs, including dam removal in the Northeast, watershed
restoration along the Mississippi River, and water
conservation in the West. In 2019, Tom’s of Maine
also began
supporting watershed education and protection efforts
in Canada.
• Colgate People at our corporate headquarters in
New York City participated in the Cotton’s Blue Jeans
Go Green™
Recycling Program. We collected 200 pounds of denim
that will be transformed into home insulation. Denim
is made
mostly from cotton, a sustainable ﬁber, which can
be broken down to its natural state and transformed
into
something new. By diverting denim away from landﬁlls,
where it would otherwise join the millions of pounds
of
textiles thrown out every year, the Cotton’s Blue
Jeans Go Green™ program strives to make the world
a little greener.
• Colgate partners with ActionAid to support communities
in times of natural disasters. The incessant rains
of 2019
caused severe ﬂoods in many states in India, including
Karnataka,
Maharashtra, Bihar and MP. These ﬂoods resulted in
many
casualties, loss of crops and damage to households,
which also
impacted children’s education.  CP-India along with
ActionAid
provided much needed support to these areas in the
form of dry
ration kits, oral hygiene kits, supply of drinking
water, nutrition kits
and other household goods for 1,582 families. Rehabilitation
support was also provided to 626 families in the form
of repairing
their homes, providing educational materials to their
children and livelihood support of tricycles.
60
Our Performance
Learn about the pr ogress we ’ve made on our 2020 Sustainability
Performance Commitments in 
2019.
Colgate Global Br ands
61
Consumer-Driv en Inno vation
Colgate delights people with innovative products that
meet their needs, exceed their expectations and add
value
to their lives. Our six consumer innovation centers
rely on local insights from around the world to launch
more
than 600 new products and product updates every year.
To ensure that the products we develop are placed
in stores, Colgate is committed to listening to and
engaging
with existing and potential users and buyers around
the world. To ensure that our commercial teams stay
close
to the users of our products, we undertake “Getting
Out of the Oﬃce” programs that help deepen our
understanding of local tastes and habits across categories.
Our oral care team in the Philippines enlisted a popular
social
media celebrity, Joyce Pring, to promote the Colgate
Total
relaunch. The inﬂuential “vlogger” visited our Global
Technology Center in China to learn ﬁrst hand from
our
scientists how the formula is made and what makes
it so
effective.
She documented her trip in a vlog
and shared
several
posts on social media about her experience.
People are at the center of everything we do. Colgate’s
Consumer Affairs teams act as consumer advocates,
providing consumers’ perspectives, desires and concerns
to the rest of the organization.  Colgate’s marketing
executives are able to hear consumer calls so they
can get closer to consumers’ wants and needs, and
ensure
company activities are designed to meet them. We have
even set up a “listening post” in our research center;
our
scientists can “listen” to social media interactions
in real time, enabling them to get closer to the
people for
whom they develop products.
Colgate’s Consumer Affairs teams  manage consumer
relations around the world. This team strives to provide
the very best consumer care, so that it is easy for
consumers to reach us, have their messages heard
and
problems solved.
We have state-of-the-art contact centers, where we
optimize the latest consumer service tools and training
so
every person contacting us has the very best individualized
experience. In many parts of the world, people can
now engage with us via the communication channels
that are most accessible and convenient for them -
62
whether via traditional methods, such as phone calls, or newer, real-time methods, such as social media, chat
and mobile messaging. Our team regularly captures,
evaluates, and responds to people who leave ratings
and
reviews on our websites and various e-commerce sites,
so we can ensure we are always in touch with any
feedback people have about our products. As artiﬁcial
intelligence technology is rapidly developing, we
are
constantly looking for ways to leverage it to enhance
and extend our support programs.
There is increasing attention being given to concerns
over consumer data protection and privacy. We know
that
when consumers provide us with personal information,
we have to safeguard it and treat it responsibly.
We are
very careful about how we collect, use and store personal
data, and have recently updated our Privacy Policy,
making it readily available on our websites around
the world.  Our Privacy Policy can be viewed
here
.
In addition, we regularly monitor key performance
indicators for service around the world. In 2019,
over
three-quarters of consumers reported being “satisﬁed”
or “very satisﬁed” with our service.
Highlights
●
Colgate has innovated with exciting developments in
connected oral health.  This
technology enables consumers to use their mobile devices
while caring for their
teeth, providing real-time feedback on their brushing
behaviors, leading to
improved oral health routines.  We have partnered
with Apple on their research
kit initiative, which leverages the anonymized data
we collect to improve oral
health outcomes.  We are also working with dental
professionals to enable them
to use these platforms to provide more customized
care for their patients.
●
In Nigeria, Colgate entered into a strategic joint
venture with Tolaram Group Inc.
to bring innovative oral care, personal care and home
care products to Nigerian consumers. The joint
venture strengthens Colgate’s presence in Africa’s
largest economy and expects to leverage Tolaram’s
signiﬁcant local manufacturing presence, marketing
expertise and distribution strength with Colgate’s
product formulations and R&D capabilities.
●
Our Asia Paciﬁc Consumer Innovation Center co-innovated
with Alibaba, China’s
leading e-commerce company, to develop “Bursting Beads,”
a new oral care
product line in just six months. The product features
a toothpaste and a mini
toothbrush targeting young male consumers. We used
a bold new testing tool
to iterate on prototypes -- getting results back from
our target audience in just
three hours. The products are available exclusively
on Tmall (a
business-to-consumer online retailer operated in China
by Alibaba.)
63
●
C-P Spain launched the Sanex brand’s ﬁrst-ever equity campaign for Skin Health Month. The campaign
included engaging in-store events tailored to the
retail environment, a contest on social media to connect
with consumers on an emotional level about skin care
and promotions to elevate the brand’s
distinctiveness.
●
Beginning in 2019, Tom’s of Maine became a ‘
Certiﬁed
B Corporation
,’ with
the non-proﬁt B Lab, making the company part of an
elite group of
businesses that meet higher levels of social and environmental
performance, transparency and accountability. Tom’s
of Maine is one of a
select number of natural personal care companies to
become a Certiﬁed B
Corporation. Through this accreditation,
Tom’s of
Maine
publicly commits
to upholding a purpose-driven business that creates
beneﬁts for all
stakeholders.
Product Sustainability at Colgate
Product sustainability at Colgate means a continued
commitment to safe, sustainable, high-quality products
that consumers can trust. As part of our 2020 Sustainability
Strategy, we are committed to increasing the
sustainability proﬁle in all new products. Consumers
increasingly purchase products that both meet their
needs and have a social impact and reduced environmental
footprint. At Colgate, we are working to meet that
expectation by:
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product Categories
We continue to implement product category sustainability
strategies that align with and support our 2015 to
2020 Sustainability Strategy.
Improving the Product Sustainability Proﬁle of Our
Products
Teams across the Colgate world collaborate to develop
products with improved sustainability proﬁles.
Opportunities to improve product sustainability are
considered throughout the product development process
by multiple functions (from formulation to packaging).
Annually, we apply the criteria in our product
sustainability scorecard to the new products we plan
to launch.
64
Delivering Safe and Sustainable Ingredients
Colgate remains committed not only to making safe
products, but also to making those products with
ingredients and processes that have minimal impact
on the world around us.
Providing Access to Affordable Products
We continue to expand access to affordable health
and wellness products for millions of people in
underserved communities.
Driving Sustainability Through Our Categories
Colgate is embedding sustainability across our Oral
Care category. Our products and oral health education
programs improve oral health around the world and
help reduce cavities, one of the most chronic global
diseases. We also promote water conservation awareness
to consumers, encouraging them to turn off the
faucet when brushing their teeth. We are improving
the ingredient sustainability proﬁle of our products,
removing PVC from toothbrush packaging, and reducing
the environmental footprint of our oral care factories.
Colgate is also making improvements in our Personal
Care category, from improving ingredient
biodegradability and moving toward more sustainable
preservative systems to optimizing packaging size
and
improving packaging recyclability. We are educating
millions of children and their families around the
world
about the importance of handwashing with soap, and
are also working to reduce our carbon and water
footprint.
In our Home Care category, Colgate is increasing the
use of recycled and recyclable plastics in our packaging
and improving the ingredient sustainability proﬁle
of our products, including eliminating formaldehyde
donors
and reducing volatile organic compounds to improve
air quality. We are also helping consumers save energy
and water with our cleaning products.
Hill’s Pet Nutrition is working to source its ingredients
responsibly, reduce its operational footprint, and
provide
pet food to shelters at a discount to help millions
of dogs and cats ﬁnd their forever homes. Hill’s
is also
leading the way to Working Towards Zero Waste at Colgate.
The ﬁrst four “Zero Waste to Landﬁll” factories
are
Hill’s factories. Today, 100% of Hill’s dry pet food
is produced at a Zero Waste to Landﬁll plant.
65Impr oving the Pr oduct Sustainability Pr oﬁle of Our Pr oducts
Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard is intended
to measure the progress of our goals to increase
the
sustainability in our products by 2020. Our product
sustainability key performance indicators are focused
on
three areas: Packaging, Formula and Social Impact.
Through cross-functional collaboration across the
Colgate
world, we continue to make progress and 96 percent
of new products in 2019 have improved sustainability
proﬁles.
(1)
(1) The performance results are based on representative
products from the product portfolio evaluated against
comparable Colgate products
across three impact areas to characterize likely improvement
in the sustainability profile, based on review of
quantitative and qualitative
data.
2019 Pr oduct Highlights
66
Deliv ering Saf e & Sustainable Ingr edients
Product Safety and Quality
We continuously monitor and evaluate the safety of
our ingredients, and we actively engage with outside
experts and resources to understand emerging science
and deepen our knowledge. We also comply with all
aspects of the European Union’s REACH regulation (Registration,
Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of
Chemical substances). To learn more about the science
behind our products, please visit the
Scientiﬁc
Excellence
section of our website, and learn more
about our
Ingredient Safety Policy
and progress updates,
please visit the
Ingredient Safety
section.
Product Safety Testing
Colgate has a longstanding policy to minimize and
ultimately eliminate animal testing associated with
development of oral care, personal care, and home
care products. Central to this commitment are our
35-year-long efforts to encourage the development
of alternatives that are scientiﬁcally valid and
can be
accepted by scientiﬁc regulators.
We are a leader in promoting, encouraging, and participating
in the development, validation, and acceptance
of non-animal testing methods worldwide, investing
more than $1 million dollars annually on research
with
non-animal alternatives. Globally, there are circumstances
when regulatory agencies require animal testing of
oral care, personal care, and home care products.
In such limited instances, the tests are conducted
at
external testing facilities that meet strict government
standards and the rigorous requirements that were
established by Colgate with input from animal welfare
groups. We work closely with worldwide regulatory
agencies to examine how non-animal tests can be incorporated
into their safety requirements for consumer
products. In addition, we support the European Partnership
for Alternative to Animals, the Johns Hopkins
Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing, and the
Institute for In Vitro Science which are organizations
that
are focused on developing and/or promoting the use
of non-animal methods.
Colgate actively shares its work to reduce animal
use and develop alternatives so that this information
can
help others minimize animal use. Colgate is also a
strong supporter of education in this ﬁeld and partners
67with the Society of Toxicology to provide grants for student internships, post-doctoral fellowships and
research grants to further promote the ﬁeld of alternatives
to animal research.
Hill’s uses only non-invasive, humane research methods
to develop superior nutritional technology so that
dogs and cats live longer, healthier lives. Importantly,
Hill’s believes that any procedure that causes pain
to
people also causes pain to animals and therefore,
is not permitted. Hill’s does not create or simulate
disease
conditions in animals and does not conduct a study
where euthanasia is the end point. Hill’s breakthroughs
in
pet nutrition are unmatched in the pet food industry,
and it has built its business and reputation on always
practicing the highest ethical standards. Hill’s publishes
its animal welfare policy on its website, which
governs all studies they conduct or support.
We look forward to the day when all necessary safety
studies for oral care, personal care, and home care
products can be performed without the use of animals.
We will continue our unwavering efforts toward the
development, validation, and scientiﬁc and regulatory
acceptance of alternative non-animal methods of
product safety research, while remaining steadfast
in our commitment to the highest standards of product
safety for our consumers. For more information on
our Product Safety Research Policy and other policies,
visit
our website
.
Ingredient Transparency
Our business is subject to extensive legal and regulatory
requirements in the U.S. and abroad. Such legal and
regulatory requirements apply to most aspects of our
products, including their development, ingredients,
manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, transportation,
distribution, export, import, advertising, sales
and
environmental impact. U.S. federal authorities, including
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”),
the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product
Safety Commission and the Environmental Protection
Agency, regulate different aspects of our business,
along with parallel authorities at the state and
local levels
and comparable authorities overseas.
We recognize consumers want to know more about the
ingredients in the products they use. Colgate
continues to be an active participant in SmartLabel™,
a digital platform co-created by the Consumer Brands
Association (formerly GMA) and the Food Marketing
Institute (FMI) in conjunction with manufacturers
and
68retailers to inform consumers about what’s in their products and why. SmartLabel provides a wide range of
product details that cannot ﬁt on a package label.
It goes beyond the label to tell consumers not just
what
ingredients are included in their products; it explains
what those ingredients are, why they are in the product,
and what they do. SmartLabel was designed to match
how people use information and technology today.
Thus, consumers can access SmartLabel at home and
on-the-go while creating a shopping list on their
phone
or when making a purchase decision in  the store.
In 2019, we completed adding all categories in the
U.S. to the SmartLabel platform.
Colgate participates in SmartLabel in the U.S. and
Canada. The program continues to grow and today 64
companies, 945 brands, and approximately 74,000 products
participate in this program.
Deliv ering Mor e Sustainable P ackaging
Colgate’s packaging organization regularly evaluates
materials, processes, and delivery systems that can
improve the sustainability proﬁle of our packages.
Colgate’s packaging sustainability strategy centers
around
the following actions:
●
Minimizing the volume and weight of our packaging
required to label and protect our products
●
Using recycled content and evaluating new materials
and sources
●
Designing products for recyclability and materials
reduction while ensuring product integrity
●
Assessing the human health and environmental impact
of our packaging
●
Expanding reﬁll package systems in product categories
where feasible
●
Collaborating to inspire, incentivize, and educate
people on recycled content and recyclability
●
Supporting innovative efforts to improve local recycling
systems
69
Information on our work to exit polyvinyl chloride (PVC), improve recyclability, increase recycled content and
minimize weight and volume of packaging follows.
EXIT PVC
We continue working towards our commitment to exit
PVC by 2020. Currently, we have eliminated using
PVC in
99.5 percent of our packaging by weight. In addition,
we have developed plans to exit the remaining uses
of PVC
in blisters, shrink sleeves, labels, bottles and pouches.
In 2019, we reduced our PVC use by 2,250 tons.
EXAMPLES
In 2019, we converted packaging out of PVC:
In Brazil, our Protex liquid hand soap 250ml & 1L
tamper evident seals and Palmolive
Combing Cream labels.
In Malaysia, Colombia and Guatemala, we changed Axion
Dish Paste labels. In Malaysia, the Softlan reﬁll
2L label
was also replaced.
Colombia and Thailand worked to change  sleeves /
shrink wrap used for special packs:
- Speed Stick deodorant in Colombia
- Care, Protex Talcum and Palmolive in Thailand
●
We have replaced PVC with PET in
toothbrush blisters for individual and special
packs globally.
70
IMPROVE RECYCLABILITY
Colgate’s goals are to achieve:
●
All packaging recyclable in Personal Care, Home Care,
and Pet Nutrition by 2020
●
All packaging recyclable, reﬁllable or compostable
for all categories by 2025
As of year-end 2019, approximately 88 percent of our
packaging by weight is technically recyclable in
Personal
Care, Home Care and Pet Nutrition. When Oral Care
packaging is added, our packaging recyclability
company-wide is 81 percent. This does not, however,
include our recently acquired skin health and oral
care
businesses, PCA Skin, eltaMD, Filorga and hello.
We continue the transition from opaque to clear PET
bottles, redesigning  multi-material ﬁlm packaging,
and
improving recyclability of dispensing systems.
We continue the implementation of shrink sleeves with
perforated tear tabs, and we direct consumers to
remove
the sleeve at end of use to improve bottle recycling.
We continue to focus on deploying our breakthrough
innovation in new shrink sleeve technology and pressure-sensitive
label systems that are preferred by recycling
facilities.
EXAMPLES
The following are examples of how Colgate People successfully
replaced colored PET with more recyclable
packaging:
In Australia, Ajax Spray 500ml and 750ml bottles
moved to clear PET.
In Mexico, Ajax Ammonia
bottles moved to clear PET.
71
In the U.S., Irish Spring 32oz bottles moved to HDPE
bottles
.
In Greece and France, Soupline Fabric Softener bottles
moved to
clear PET bottles.
In Turkey, Palmolive, Protex and Haci
Sakir liquid hand soap and Palmolive
Men body wash moved to HDPE
bottles.
EXAMPLES
The following packaging design improvements made the
following products technically recyclable:
In Pakistan, we converted the ﬁlm used in Max Laundry
bar to monomaterial ﬁlm.
In the U.S., we replaced the shrink
sleeve in Softsoap Foaming hand soap and Softsoap
body
wash with pressure sensitive labels.
72
In the U.S., we converted Speed Stick deodorant containers
from mixed resins to an all
polypropylene container.
We launched a ﬁrst-of-its-kind recyclable toothpaste
tube, the ﬁrst oral or personal care tube to be
recognized by the Association of Plastic Recyclers.
The recyclable toothpaste tube debuted under the
Tom’s of Maine brand in the United States and the
Colgate Smile for Good brand in Europe.
Read more
.
INCREASE RECYCLED CONTENT
Colgate’s 2020 goal is to increase recycled content
in our packaging to 50 percent on average, and our
2025 goal focuses on increasing recycled content for
plastic to 25 percent. As of year-end 2019,
approximately 45 percent of our packaging materials
are from recycled sources.  We have worked in 2019
to procure resources to meet our 2020 goals.
Palmolive Dish Eco Respect  is Colgate’s ﬁrst bottle
using 100% post-consumer
recycled PET  in Europe. Hypoallergenic, biodegradable
formula free from fragrance
and dyes; effective usage in cold water; EU ‘Ecolabel
Certiﬁed’ seal on-pack.
Palmolive Eco Dish Liquid launched in
Australia and New Zealand using 100% post-consumer
recycled PET bottles, biodegradable formula, no added
dyes.
Palmolive Ultra and Ajax Spray n’ Wipe also moved
to 100%
post-consumer recycled PET bottles.
73
In Guatemala, Fabuloso and Azistin
gallon bottles moved from 25%
to 50% post-consumer recycled PET.
In Colombia, Fabuloso 500ml
bottles moved from 25% to
100% post-consumer recycled
PET.
In Mexico, Axion 280ml, 400ml, 640ml,
750ml & 900ml bottles moved from 0%
to 25% post-consumer recycled PET.
In the U.S., Tom’s of Maine launched 16oz
mouthwash with 100% post-consumer recycled
PET.
MINIMIZE WEIGHT AND VOLUME
Colgate strives to use the minimum amount of packaging
required to label and protect our products. We
recognize the importance of reducing waste at every
stage of the product life-cycle, including at the
end-of-use of our products and packaging. Read more
on our programs to collect packaging waste and our
commitment to work with stakeholders to drive continuous
improvement in local recycling systems in
Reducing Consumer Waste
.
EXAMPLES
In Colombia, we worked to reduce the height of the
200ml and 400ml  stand
up pouches reducing plastic consumption.
74
In Italy, we eliminated a carton pad that was included as tertiary
packaging for
Palmolive 250ml and 500ml bottles, and a shrink ﬁlm
that was used for Palmolive
Shampoo reducing 43 tons of ﬁber packaging and 17
tons of plastic used on an
annual basis. We also reduced the amount of adhesive
needed to close cases across
different products, reducing an additional 15 tons
of plastic.
In France, we launched a new Soupline
Concentrated 800ml bottle, replacing the previous
1.2L bottle. The new format reduced plastic
consumption by 170 tons on an
annual basis.
In Colombia, we reduced eight tons of plastic 
from Colgate Triple Action and Anticavity Toothpaste
tubes.
In China, we reduced ﬁber based packaging by 3.5
tons 
with projects in Colgate Kayu Sugi and Travel Kit.
In Mexico, we reduced the weight of the cap used in 
Suavitel 450ml saving 72 metric tons of plastic per
year.
In Malaysia,  we improved the ﬁber based packaging
used for Axion Dish Paste 350g and 750g, Softlan
Fabric Conditioner 1, 2 and 3L and Softlan 2L reﬁll
reducing 40 tons of ﬁber based packaging
considering annual volumes. An improved bottle weight
of Softlan Ultra 1L and Reﬁll 2L led to a plastic
reduction of 16 tons.
75
The redesign of Palmolive Foaming hand soap packaging,
250ml bottle, reduced 9 tons
of plastic and 17 tons of ﬁber based packaging on
an annual basis.
A redesign of the Softlan Fine Fabric Liquid
Detergent packaging, allowed us to reduce 86
tons of plastic and 36 tons of ﬁber based
packaging on an annual basis.
Highlights
●
We are committed to making recycling easier for Colgate
consumers! In addition to design
changes and increasing our on-pack labeling, we have
launched a
searchable database
to help
Colgate consumers find the best ways to recycle our
packaging and products in the United
States. W e hope to expand this resource to other geographies
in the future.
In Australia we partnered with TerraCycle® in the
country’s ﬁrst
recycling program for electric toothbrushes, which
have traditionally
been hard to recycle. As part of the innovative program,
consumers can
recycle any brand of electric toothbrush handles or
bases at no cost.
TerraCycle® will separate the parts and transform
the plastic into
recycled products such as garden beds and park benches.
Read more
about the
Electric Toothbrush Recycling Program
here.
76
Colgate worked with The Recycling Partnership to found
the new Pathway to
Circularity initiative. The Pathway to Circularity
starts with a stage-gate
process to determine needed steps for a package to
realize true
recyclability. The Pathway to Circularity will outline,
address, and
successfully navigate current and future packaging
and recycling system
challenges that limit the recycling of packaging materials
today to make
progress toward circularity. The initial funding has
not only created this
stage-gate process, but also launches an industry
council to gain the
consensus needed to realize measurable change throughout
the
packaging industry.
Read the media coverage here
.
●
With Hill’s as a Founding Member, we also helped kick
off the Recycling Partnership’s Film and
Flexibles Taskforce, to help solve the ongoing challenges
of recyclability for ﬂexible packaging.
●
Tom’s of Maine announced a new toothbrush with a handle
made from 80% post-consumer recycled
plastic. The soft, BPA-free bristles are colored with
food-grade, mineral-based pigments and the
toothbrush is recyclable through Tom's collection
program with partner TerraCycle.
Read the press
release here.
●
Colgate-Palmolive participated in the ﬁrst Ocean
Plastics Leadership Summit, an effort to mobilize
organizations in the plastic value chain to showcase
solutions, highlight new initiatives that can
address pressing challenges facing our oceans, and
inspire partnerships, joint ventures, and R&D
initiatives.
Read more
.
●
As a Member of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF),
we continue to take part in EMF's New
Plastics Economy initiative. Together with others,
we are pushing for unprecedented collaborative
action in the ﬁeld of sustainability, in particular
towards eliminating plastic waste. As part of EMF’s
Plastics Pact Network, Colgate joined the
Portugal
Plastics Pact
.
77
Providing Access to Affordable Products
Product sustainability at Colgate also means a commitment
to providing affordable product options in our
portfolio. We have a 2020 goal to expand access to
affordable health and wellness products for millions
of
people in underserved communities. We make products
more affordable while maintaining quality with smaller
sizes, reﬁll packages and value options. We distribute
our products broadly to give more consumers access
to
Colgate goods. Offerings are customized to best reach
consumers within their socioeconomic level, available
household income and speciﬁc consumer needs. We are
also ﬁnding ways to offer the beneﬁts of more
premium products at affordable price points.
Globally, we strategically balance Colgate’s portfolio
between base and premium tiers as appropriate for
the
particular region. This starts with consumer panels
and research that gives us an in-depth understanding
of
the local market. Many people around the world do
not have access to basic dental care and education.
As a
leading provider of oral care products, Colgate has
the unique ability to address this major social issue
and to
improve the oral health of families around the world.
In June 2019, we introduced a revolutionary new formula
for cavity protection with the relaunch of India’s
#1
toothpaste brand. The new Colgate Strong Teeth, now
with “Amino Shakti,” is specially formulated to deliver
the best ever cavity protection (compared to the previous
formula), while maintaining the same great taste
and
experience of the old Colgate Strong Teeth. This new
technology is now available for consumers at the
lowest
price point in certain markets, such as India, where
dental access is a challenge, providing kids in rural
markets
with access to the best ever cavity protection.
Partnering with Customers
We partner with hundreds of thousands of retail stores
to sell Colgate products around the world. Treating
all
retail customers with fairness and integrity is a
priority. We engage our customers worldwide by sharing
unique
shopper insights, providing innovative in-store marketing
communications and merchandising techniques, and
developing and executing joint business planning initiatives.
These activities ensure the right product
assortment at each location and help to make shopping
a consumer-friendly, enjoyable experience that drives
increased sales for both Colgate and the retailer.
78To ensure continued success, we track retailer satisfaction in 20 of Colgate’s largest subsidiaries every two
years. The Company participates in a widely used industry standard syndicated survey run by the Advantage
Group. The objective is to measure our customer engagement
with the goal of strengthening our performance
across key markets and building robust action plans
based on the survey feedback.
Colgate also partners with key customers to advance
our mutual sustainability goals. We often partner
with
retailers to engage consumers with programs, such
as our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures oral health education
program, Operation Smile and TerraCycle®.
●
Colgate continues to partner with eco-innovator TerraCycle®
in ﬁve markets: the United States, Australia,
New Zealand, the United Kingdom and China. TerraCycle®
recycles oral care packaging collected at schools,
stores and other locations into new and affordable
eco-friendly products. Through this partnership,
in 2019,
more than 54,000 locations were engaged in recycling,
helping us to divert nearly 10 million pieces of
waste
from landﬁlls. Participating locations are also able
to raise funds for schools and charities of their
choice as an
incentive for recycling.
●
To engage consumers to recycle Colgate oral care packaging,
in 2019, Colgate and TerraCycle®
partnered with ShopRite, Meijer and CVS stores to
run recycled playground giveaways. In-store displays
drove
awareness of the Colgate oral care recycling program
and publicized the contests. At ShopRite and Meijer,
schools competed to win a playground made from recycled
toothbrushes and toothpaste tubes by getting votes
for their community and recycling oral care waste.
At CVS, shoppers were asked to recycle oral care
waste to
help win a recycled playground for a children's hospital
in their state. To date, Colgate has made 23 donations
consisting of recycled playgrounds, gardens and park
furniture to communities in the United States.
79
Our Planet
Learn about the progress we’ve made on our 2020 Sustainability
Planet Commitments in 
2019.
Our Commitment to No Deforestation
Deforestation is one of Colgate’s key sustainability
issues. It is critical from a business, social, environmental
and reputational risk standpoint. Our policies and
commitments help us manage the deforestation risks
in our
supply chain for pulp and paper, palm oil and its
derivatives, soy and soy oil, and beef tallow. In
line with
Colgate’s values, we are committed to protecting the
global environment, enhancing the communities where
people live, and operating in compliance with government
laws and regulations. Because we share a vision with
our key stakeholders for a future without deforestation,
we are committed to being transparent with our
employees, shareholders, suppliers and NGOs about
our commitments, challenges and the progress we have
made in this area.
Colgate has made signiﬁcant progress in policy development
on commodity sourcing and deforestation over
the past three years. Contributing to this progress
is the company’s active membership in the Consumer
Goods Forum (CGF), a large network of retailers, manufacturers
and service providers dedicated to a vision of
“better lives through better business.” Colgate is
a member of the CGF’s recently established
Forest
Positive
Coalition of Action
and has been actively engaged
in the development of commodity roadmaps supporting
Coalition actions.  Colgate believes the implementation
of an effective deforestation program is critical
so we
can manage the impact our activities have on ecosystems
and habitats, meet stakeholders’ expectations,
protect our reputation and comply with regulations.
Included below are the key elements detailing our
approach and progress for the key commodities included
under Colgate’s no deforestation program: palm oil,
soy, pulp and paper, and tallow.
801. Palm Oil, Palm Kernel Oil and Derivatives
Palm Oil, Palm Kernel Oil and Derivatives Approach
Palm oil is the most widely produced vegetable oil
in the world and continues to grow in its use, replacing
other
vegetable oils. More than 85 percent of the world’s
palm oil comes from Indonesia and Malaysia, where
land is
sometimes converted from forest to palm plantations,
resulting in greenhouse gas emissions, impacts on
biodiversity and social issues linked to deforestation.
Colgate uses palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm oil
derivatives in some of our soap products, toothpastes,
antiperspirants, deodorants and household cleaners.
In July 2016, Colgate published a stand-alone policy
on the Responsible and Sustainable Sourcing of Palm
Oils.  This policy addresses the key requirements
for our suppliers to build global supply chains that
meet
Colgate’s palm oil policy criteria. Colgate continues
working in partnership with Earthworm Foundation
to
move the palm oil responsible sourcing strategy to
the next level by executing transformation projects
and
engaging with stakeholders from government, civil
society and palm oil producers.
Colgate has speciﬁc commitments to source palm oil,
palm kernel oil and palm derivatives that are responsibly
produced and that can be traced from plantation to
product. As we strive for zero deforestation in our
palm oil
operations and activities, we will partner with stakeholders
and our suppliers to build a transparent global
supply chain that meets the following criteria:
●
No deforestation of High Carbon Stock (HCS) forest
●
No deforestation of High Conservation Value (HCV)
areas
●
No use of ﬁre for land clearance
●
No new development on peat lands, regardless of depth
●
Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
●
No exploitation of people or local communities
For additional information on our work and regular
progress updates on our activities on Palm Oil, please
see
our speciﬁc policy on
Responsible and Sustainable
Sourcing of Palm Oils
812. Soy
Colgate uses soy and soy oil as ingredients in certain
products. Colgate currently sources these materials
from
the United States and South America. The United States,
Brazil and Argentina account for more than 70
percent of the global soy supply. In Brazil, soy production
has been linked to deforestation of highly biodiverse
forest regions and its cultivation has contributed
signiﬁcantly to the clearance of the Amazon forest,
the
Cerrado, the Atlantic Forest, the Gran Chaco and the
Chiquitano.
We are committed to using responsibly and sustainably
sourced soy products from South America, which is
considered the highest risk area for soy products.
We will procure soy products that are responsibly
and
sustainably sourced and are certiﬁed by credible
certiﬁcation schemes, including Roundtable for Responsible
Soy, Proterra or equivalent organizations to verify
that the soy Colgate sources pose a low risk of contributing
to deforestation.
For material procured in Brazil, our primary source,
we use soy and soy oil suppliers that are in compliance
with the Brazil Forest Code, including registration
in the Rural Environmental Registry.
Colgate has completed an initial mapping of our indirect
volume for soy.  To support our current sourcing
strategy for soy we have initiated the following critical
actions:
●
Supported efforts, such as the Soy Moratorium, that
help minimize deforestation from soy expansion and
increase transparency in the soy sector
●
Completed mapping of our soy footprint for indirect
soy, following CGF and RTRS guidelines
●
Engaged with our suppliers in Brazil and other high-risk
areas to assess the availability of soy that does
not contribute to deforestation in our soy supply
chain, such as soy certiﬁed by the Roundtable on
Responsible
Soy or Proterra, and will continue to increase our
purchase from these suppliers (Ongoing)
●
Increased usage of certiﬁed sources to 100 percent
for the volume sourced from Brazil
●
Incorporated sustainability and responsible sourcing
requirements in the supplier selection criteria and
process
●
Included soy suppliers in our Supplier Responsible
Sourcing Assessment (SRSA) program
●
Joined efforts on supporting the Cerrado Manifesto
through the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) to
minimize deforestation from soy expansion in Brazil
and increase transparency in the soy sector
82●
Began a partnership with Earthworm Foundation to continue the traceability work back to the origin, risk
assess our supply chain and identify transformation
opportunities in collaboration with our suppliers
in South
America (ongoing)
3. Pulp and Paper
Pulp and Paper Approach
Colgate is committed to sourcing paper and packaging
from recycled sources and responsibly managed
forests that do not contribute to deforestation. Much
of Colgate’s packaging materials utilize wood-derived
or
paper-based products. Approximately 92 percent of
our pulp and paper is recycled and/or certiﬁed as
sourced
from responsibly managed forests.
As part of our responsible sourcing strategy, we continue
working with our partner, Rainforest Alliance, an
international non-proﬁt organization, to assess our
supply network for paper-based materials. We are
also
actively working with our suppliers to implement our
longstanding strategy to increase the volume of certiﬁed
or recycled pulp and paper-based materials each year,
setting a goal to source 100 percent by the end of
2020.
Our partnership with Rainforest Alliance helps us
engage with our suppliers to increase the use of certiﬁed
materials, giving preference to suppliers that use
pulp and paper compliant with Forest Stewardship
Council
(FSC) certiﬁcation standards. Rainforest Alliance
also supports mapping our supply chain to identify
hot spot
areas, which present the highest risk to our business,
the environment or the local community.
We will continue partnering with our suppliers to
build a low-risk global supply chain that meets the
following
criteria for pulp and paper:
●
No illegally harvested wood
●
No exploitation of people or local communities
●
No deforestation of High Conservation Value (HCV)
areas
●
No sourcing wood from forests that were converted
to plantations or non-forest use after December 31,
2010
In addition, we have taken additional steps to ensure
compliance with the U.S. Lacey Act, which requires
all
product and disposable packaging to be composed of
legally sourced wood or other plant-based material.
83Pulp and Paper Progress
Our partnership with Rainforest Alliance will support
the execution of our responsible sourcing strategy
for
pulp and paper and drive transformation in our supply
chain.
As part of the work plan with Rainforest Alliance,
Colgate is focusing ﬁrst on the following pulp and
paper
based materials:
●
Paper-based cartons
●
Corrugated materials for shipping
●
Paper-based labels
●
Corrugated materials for displays
●
Dryer sheet products and cleaning wipes
Due to the complexity in the pulp and paper portfolio,
Colgate has prioritized policy implementation with
the
suppliers of these products representing 80 percent
of our spend, with a long-term goal of reaching suppliers
representing 100 percent of spend.
The following actions were identiﬁed to support our
current responsible sourcing strategy for pulp and
paper:
●
Issued a commodity-speciﬁc Policy on Responsible
and Sustainable Sourcing of Pulp and Paper
●
Communicated our policy to our direct suppliers
●
Map pulp and paper supply chain to country of origin
to identify any controversial sources and drive
actions toward policy conformance (Ongoing)
●
Requested information on traceability to the mill
level from the suppliers that represent 80% of our
spend
●
Conduct risk assessment analysis to determine areas
of focus and develop a roadmap for policy
implementation, with the support of Rainforest Alliance
(Ongoing)
●
Launched second phase on traceability request, focusing
on the suppliers that represent the remaining
20% of our spend
●
Increased awareness of policy commitments by conducting
supplier webinars
●
Increased awareness of policy commitments and requirements
to suppliers by conducting webinars for
procurement professionals and packaging teams
●
Purchase increasing volumes of certiﬁed or recycled
pulp- and paper-based materials each year with a
goal to source 100 percent by the end of 2020, using
the Forest Stewardship Council and other respected
certiﬁcation schemes as geography and availability
necessitate (Ongoing)
84●
Included pulp and paper suppliers in our Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment (SRSA) program
●
Incorporated sustainability and responsible sourcing
requirements in the supplier selection criteria and
process
●
Report and communicate performance and progress against
policy (Ongoing)
See list of Pulp and Paper Suppliers for more detail
We have also set packaging targets for 2020, including
increasing the recycled content of our packaging
to 50
percent. Currently, approximately 44 percent of Colgate’s
paper and board packaging materials by weight
globally come from recycled sources. Colgate will
continue our long-standing strategy to increase the
use of
recycled materials as well as our efforts to optimize
the use of other packaging materials.
4. Tallow
Tallow, a cattle byproduct, is a key ingredient in
bar soap production. Colgate sources tallow from
suppliers in
North America, Latin America and Europe. In Brazil,
there are concerns that rising demand for beef as
a food
source is prompting farmers to clear parts of the
Amazon rainforest for cattle ranching.
As a result, we mainly focus on the tallow sourced
from Brazil, and work with our Brazilian suppliers
to
transform practices in our tallow supply chain. We
require our suppliers in Brazil to meet the following
criteria:
●
Certify that suppliers follow environmental and social
requirements set forth by the Brazilian Institute
of
Environment and Renewable Natural Resources
●
Conﬁrm that their operations are conducted in conformance
with the Minimum Criteria for Industrial
Scale Cattle Operations in the Brazilian Amazon Biome,
which aims to stop deforestation in the Brazilian
Amazon
To support our program and commitment we have initiated
the following important actions:
●
Developed a risk assessment tool to evaluate and assess
the sustainability performance of 100 percent
of our tallow suppliers
●
Incorporated sustainability and responsible sourcing
requirements in the supplier selection criteria and
process
●
Included tallow suppliers in our Supplier Responsible
Sourcing Assessment (SRSA) program
●
Certiﬁed that our suppliers operate in compliance
with the environmental and social requirements set
forth by the Brazilian Institute of Environment and
Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA)
85●
Conﬁrmed that 100 percent of our suppliers’ operations conform with the Minimum Criteria for Industrial
Scale Cattle Operations in the Brazilian Amazon
●
Exclude suppliers that do not meet our policy criteria
and requirements
●
Work with our suppliers on veriﬁcation by using satellite
systems to proactively address issues linked to
deforestation and assure the material is sourced responsibly
We are publishing below the list of our primary beef
tallow suppliers. This snapshot reﬂects our primary
supply
network refresh as of year end 2019. We optimized
our supply network to only source from suppliers that
meet
our policy requirements and operate in compliance
with IBAMA and the Cattle Amazon sourcing criteria.
86
Envir onmental Management
It is Colgate’s worldwide policy to manufacture and
market our products and operate our facilities so
that we
conform to, and often exceed, applicable environmental
rules and regulations. Our environmental standards,
including the management systems standard, deﬁne
environmental performance expectations for Colgate
facilities. All Colgate facilities have a fully implemented
Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Management
System covering a wide range of categories, including
energy, water and waste management. Colgate’s
manufacturing environmental performance goals are
included in our Global Supply Chain annual objectives,
which are cascaded to site-level facility managers,
energy managers and EHS managers. Colgate facilities
are
expected to self-assess compliance with our standards
and local regulations every 18 months. Corporate
audits are conducted every three to ﬁve years, closure
progress is reported quarterly and veriﬁcation audits
are
conducted to provide closure assurance.
Our Climate Commitment
At Colgate, we are aware of the potential consequences
of climate change. We are committed to acting
responsibly and conscientiously to protect people
and the environment wherever we operate. We recognize
that businesses and their suppliers, customers and
consumers along with other stakeholders have a vital
role
to play in addressing the global issue of climate
change. Climate change is one of Colgate’s key sustainability
issues. It is a key focus for our business from both
a reputational and an operational standpoint. Consumers,
non-governmental organizations and other external
stakeholders expect companies to do their part to
mitigate
climate change. Reducing our energy use and greenhouse
gas emissions also enables Colgate to mitigate
costs. Since 2002, our energy reduction program has
helped us avoid more than $613 million in energy
costs.
Managing the risks associated with climatic events,
such as storms and droughts, is also important to
ensure
the continuity of our own operations and that of our
supply chain.
See “Climate Resilience”
for more
information. Our approach for climate change management
and reporting is based on the guidelines of the
GHG Protocol, covering about 95 percent of operations
and sales where we have ﬁnancial control.
87Approach
Key elements of our Climate Strategy include:
Science-Based Goals
We set science-based climate goals to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions.
Energy Management and Investment
We continue to improve our global energy management
system and invest in planet-related improvements
via
our manufacturing capital program.
Low-Carbon Energy
We promote the use of renewable energy and support
the development of low-carbon energy supply.
Low-Carbon Products and Supply Chains
We quantify greenhouse gas emissions throughout our
value chain and focus on reducing the most signiﬁcant
emissions. Colgate ensures responsible sourcing of
the forest commodities associated with deforestation.
88
Climate Resilience
We integrate climate resilience into our risk management
process.
Collaboration and Disclosure
We collaborate with stakeholders to demonstrate business
leadership on climate. We are also committed to
transparency. We publicly disclose our climate strategies
and goals, and report on our progress.
In 2019, Colgate continued to work with Walmart’s
Project Gigaton to support their goal to work with
their
suppliers to reduce 1 billion metric tons of greenhouse
gas emissions (GHG) from the global value chain by
2030. Through Project Gigaton, Colgate has committed
to GHG goals in six areas: emissions, energy, waste,
deforestation, packaging and product use. Colgate
reports against these goals annually.
Progress
89
SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS
Colgate commits to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG
emissions from manufacturing by 25 percent from
2002 to 2020, with a longer term goal of a 50 percent
reduction by 2050. As a way to reduce our most
signiﬁcant Scope 3 GHG emissions, Colgate is committed
to promoting water conservation awareness to 100
percent of our global consumers and reducing emissions
associated with consumer behavior by up to ﬁve
percent from 2016 to 2022, and increasing the recycled
content of our packaging to 50 percent by 2020.
As part of our strategy to track and reduce GHG emissions,
Colgate also tracks direct and indirect CO2, or
carbon dioxide, emissions as well as direct nitrous
oxide, sulfur hexaﬂuoride, HFC and PFC emissions.
We
additionally estimate NOX, or nitric oxide, emissions
from Colgate’s North American and European car ﬂeets
and from the trucks that deliver Hill’s Pet Nutrition
products to retail customers in vehicles that are
controlled
by Colgate. We track VOC data as needed to comply
with local regulations.
90
Energy Management and Investment
Colgate has a longstanding energy reduction program
that has helped us
lower GHG emissions and energy use intensity as well
as increase ﬁnancial
savings. Our energy management system is modeled after
the U.S. EPA’s
ENERGY STAR program and is implemented globally. In
2020, Colgate was
named a U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for
the tenth year in a
row, recognized speciﬁcally for Sustained Excellence.
Key elements of Colgate’s energy management program
include:
• “Top 10” Energy Actions
For the past several years, as a way to help our global
sites prioritize the most effective energy reduction
activities, we have used our Top 10 Energy Actions
program. Implemented over two-year increments, this
program tracks progress against our ten best global
energy reduction opportunities.
• 5% for the Planet
In 2011, Colgate initiated a program to set an annual
capital expenditure budget as a way to drive
investment in environmental sustainability projects
across our global manufacturing sites. Our “5% for
the
Planet” program helps ensure that sites identify,
fund and implement climate, energy, water, and waste
projects that drive both environmental improvement
and cost savings. The program sets an annual goal
to
invest a minimum of ﬁve percent of our manufacturing
capital expenditure budget on energy reduction,
water conservation, and reduction of waste to landﬁll.
Upgrades for environmental compliance and product
design are funded separately. A minimum of two percent
of the manufacturing capital budget is targeted
speciﬁcally toward energy reduction projects. Since
inception, Colgate has invested more than $248 million
in more than 1,300 planet projects, delivering an
estimated savings of more than $59 million.
• Energy Treasure Hunt Program
We engage people across Colgate’s operations to participate
in the Energy Treasure Hunt program. Over a
three-day period, 30 to 50 participants visit all
areas of a facility, searching for energy waste and
brainstorming opportunities to drive continuous improvement.
91
“At Colgate-Palmolive, ﬁghting climate change isn’t about one big idea. It’s about seeking out, hunting down
and implementing hundreds of ideas across our business, including manufacturing,” said Vance Merolla,
Worldwide Director, Global Sustainability of Colgate-Palmolive.
“As an ENERGY STAR®  Partner company,
Colgate’s global manufacturing sites have been taking
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s ENERGY
STAR® Challenge for Industry since 2011.”
Read more
on how our global teams hunt down energy waste
and ﬁght climate change.
• Our factories in Boksburg, South Africa, Cali, Colombia,
Guatemala City, Guatemala and Rillieux, France
earned ENERGY STAR® Challenge for Industry Achiever
status for 2019 by reducing their energy intensity
by at least 10% within 5 years.
• Global Energy Reduction Team
Colgate’s Global Energy Reduction Team leads the technical
implementation of Colgate’s energy strategy in
our manufacturing sites by setting annual objectives
and developing tools and programs to help our sites
reach their energy reduction targets. This cross-functional
global team is composed of individuals with
expertise and passion for reducing Colgate’s energy
use and GHG emissions. For 17 years, the Global
Energy Reduction Team has continued to focus on supporting
our plants with many tools, activities, and
92
initiatives. In 2019, the team supported our global Energy Treasure Hunt program and “Top 10” Energy &
Water Actions program.
Energy Intensity Goal
Colgate’s 2020 goal is to reduce the energy intensity
of manufacturing our products by one-third compared
to
2002. As of 2019,  our global energy programs have
already resulted in the reduction of energy per ton
of
products by 33 percent.
Low-Carbon Energy
As part of our strategy to achieve a 25 percent absolute
reduction in GHG by 2020, we are working to promote
the use of renewable energy and support the development
of a low-carbon energy supply.
As a way to further develop our balanced approach
to renewable energy, Colgate developed a Renewable
Energy Master Plan, which helps the company identify
and prioritize renewable energy opportunities at
our
facilities around the world. In 2019, Colgate implemented
phase I of a multi-phase solar project at our Global
Technology Campus in Piscataway, New Jersey. Phase
I will generate 903 kWh and when complete, the total
project is expected to generate 3.2 MWh.
Colgate has been a U.S. EPA Green Power Partner since
2014, supporting the voluntary use of green power
to
reduce the environmental effects associated with conventional
electricity use. In 2019, Colgate purchased
93
230,000 MWh of Green-e certiﬁed wind power renewable energy certiﬁcates generated from wind power farms
located in Kansas. This green power purchase was recognized
by the U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership
Leadership Club, achieving the rank of No. 51 in the
United States. The purchase cost of green power is
allocated back to our facilities in proportion to
their carbon emissions as a way to help assign a cost-of-carbon
to its source.
In 2019, Colgate hosted an Environmental Defense Fund
(EDF) Climate Corps fellow whose primary objective
was to develop a global strategy for electric vehicle
(EV) charging station implementation and to evaluate
WELL Building certiﬁcation at our Piscataway, New
Jersey technology campus.
Improving Refrigerants
Although Colgate uses only a small quantity of refrigerants
in our air conditioning and chilled water systems,
we continue to take steps to minimize refrigerant
losses and transition to lower global warming potential
refrigerants over time. Colgate has aligned with the
Consumer Goods Forum’s resolution on refrigerants,
which
calls on Food and Beverage supply chains to phase
out hydroﬂuorocarbons. Although Colgate is not in
the
Food and Beverage sector, we have proactively aligned
our global refrigerant standard to meet the intent
of the
CGF’s resolution as a way to support these efforts.
In addition, we developed an associated e-learning
training
tool to assist our global facilities in transitioning
toward less carbon-intensive refrigerants.
Low-Carbon Products and Supply Chain
Each year, Colgate works to assess the carbon
consequences and opportunities across our value
chain. We have expanded our knowledge into areas
beyond our own direct energy (Scope 1 emissions) and
indirect electricity (Scope 2 emissions) to include
areas
such as raw material procurement, transportation and
logistics, business travel, waste, employee commuting,
consumer use of products, and product end-of-life.
94
Low-Carbon Products
The predominance of our GHG emissions is associated
with the consumer use of our products. Our category
GHG footprint indicates that the impact of brushing,
showering, washing hands, and washing dishes differs
greatly.
To reduce GHG emissions associated with our
products we are focused on:
• Raising consumer awareness of water conservation
• Designing products that allow consumers to use
less water or temperate water
• Designing packages that can be recycled
Low-Carbon Supply Chain
We are also focused on GHG emissions in our supply
chain. To reduce these emissions we are focused on:
• Supplier engagement
• Carbon-intensive materials
• No deforestation
• Sustainable and eﬃcient logistics
Supplier Engagement
We request that our key Tier I suppliers and suppliers
of carbon-intensive materials participate in the
CDP
Supply Chain Program Climate Disclosure to help us
understand and address climate effects and associated
risks and opportunities in our upstream supply chain.
In 2019, 42 percent of our Tier I direct material
suppliers,
by spend, responded to the survey, including our largest
raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers.
We achieved 82 percent supplier participation.
95
Carbon-Intensive Materials
We have identiﬁed the oral care, personal care, and
home care raw and packaging materials that have the
highest carbon footprint. This information has been
shared with our Research and Development and
Procurement teams to help them identify and prioritize
opportunities through material and supplier choices
without negatively affecting consumer experience,
quality or cost.
No Deforestation
We also recognize that deforestation and forest degradation
contribute signiﬁcantly to the release of GHG. Our
No Deforestation policy commits to sourcing forest
commodity materials responsibly and sustainably by
2020.
See “Our Commitment to No Deforestation”
for more
details on Colgate’s progress on policy implementation.
Sustainable and Eﬃcient Logistics
Customer Service and Logistics teams at Colgate continue
to focus on sustainable and eﬃcient logistics
initiatives around the world. Through these efforts,
we are reducing costs as well as our carbon footprint,
all
while improving customer service.
Our sustainable and eﬃcient logistics efforts in
2019 included initiatives such as:
• Load Optimization: Through the use of SAP Transportation
Management—a tool currently in place in
Canada, the United States, Mexico, Brazil and Vietnam—we
are automatically planning shipments to their
optimal capacity. This has led to more eﬃcient load
planning and minimization in the number of shipments
to deliver our products in a timely fashion. In 2020,
we will be rolling out this technology for Hill’s
exports,
which will continue to drive freight planning eﬃciencies.
• Route Optimization: By analyzing trends in lane
level detail, using internal tools and partnering
with third
parties, we are identifying transport solutions aimed
at reducing transit time, emissions and costs.
96• Distribution Network Optimization: By using a customer location study, which reorganizes the freight to
customers through a buffer warehouse and/or new warehouse
location, we reduce costs, better serve our
customers and reduce our carbon footprint.
• Co-Loading Trailers: Colgate is working to minimize
the number of trucks on the road by co-loading
trailers with other companies. This creative freight
load-sharing program enables us to minimize the
number of our trucks on the road as well as wasted
space in our trailers.
• Improving Vehicle Fuel Eﬃciency: Our logistics
providers are upgrading their ﬂeets to include more
aerodynamic and eﬃcient vehicles, resulting in improved
miles-per-gallon fuel eﬃciency.
• Intermodal Shipping: We are using intermodal shipping
globally to drive reductions in CO2 emissions,
diesel consumption and cost. Hill’s has been a prime
example of our commitment to this initiative and
has
reached 100 percent utilization on lanes set up for
transport by rail two years in a row.
Climate Resilience
Colgate has a long-standing operations risk management
process that includes managing the effects of
episodic climatic events, such as storms, ﬂoods,
droughts and temperature extremes, to our facilities
and
supply chain. Climate risk is deﬁned as part of the
operational, regulatory and reputational and market
risks;
therefore, Colgate is committed to developing a long-term
strategy to mitigate risks from climatic events.
As
part of this process, we assess potential climate
vulnerabilities and risks to ensure our business is
able to
respond to and recover from climatic events. As part
of our loss-prevention program, our strategic
manufacturing sites are mandated to be highly protected
against risks. Third-party assessments on property
loss control are conducted annually for all strategic
sites. Additionally, we develop and routinely update
category contingency product sourcing plans.
Collaboration and Disclosure
Colgate is committed to transparency and has reported
publicly on our carbon and energy reduction
performance since 2004. Through these disclosures,
we report on ﬁnancial, regulatory, physical and
reputational risks as well as savings associated with
eco-eﬃciency. In 2019, we continued to collaborate
with
97a variety of stakeholders and engaged with leading organizations to inform our climate strategy and drive
continuous improvement on a broader basis.
Further details of our risk management strategies
related to climate change, water
availability and forest commodity risk can be found
in our response to CDP’s annual
climate change, water and forest surveys. Please go
to our Reporting for more details.
Colgate Quantifying Scope 3 emissions and goals
Colgate was recognized as a U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Partner
of the Year for the tenth
year in early 2020
U.S. EPA’s Green Power Partnership National Top 100
List
Global LEED commitment for new construction of all
owned facilities
98
Making E very Drop of W ater Count
Water is an ingredient in many Colgate products and
required in almost every phase of the product lifecycle.
Clean water is also vital to the communities we serve,
yet it is becoming an increasingly scarce resource
in
many regions of the world. Additionally, other related
issues such as ﬂooding threaten to have negative
consequences on our supply chains and the delivery
of raw materials and, as well as the ﬁnished goods
to
customers.
Water Stewardship is one of our Key Sustainability
Issues.  These challenges deﬁne the boundaries of
Colgate’s Water Stewardship Strategy, which covers
the following areas where we have the opportunity
to
manage impact and create a better environment for
communities: Direct Operations, Supply Chain, Consumer
Use, Water and Sanitation Access, Ecosystem Protection,
and Collaboration and Disclosure.
Key elements of our Water Stewardship Commitment include:
Direct Operations
We continue to invest in water conservation and assess
water risks associated with our global operations.
We
replenish water in highly stressed regions and manage
our wastewater appropriately.
99
Supply Chain Management
We are increasing the participation of our suppliers
in our water stewardship standard to identify opportunities
and mitigate water risks.
Consumer Use
We strive to develop innovative products that enable
consumers to use less water while meeting or exceeding
eﬃcacy expectations. Colgate also promotes water
conservation awareness globally.
Water and Sanitation Access
We respect the human right to water, sanitation and
hygiene. We partner with local and global organizations
to
offer clean water to underserved areas around the
world. We also provide health and hygiene education
in our
communities.
Ecosystem Protection
Colgate continues to work to protect water-related
ecosystems through our commitment to No Deforestation,
water replenishment, aquifer protection, wastewater
treatment and community partnerships. In the U.S.,
Colgate continues to support
The Nature Conservancy
in its mission to protect and restore the health
of rivers,
lakes, wetlands and forests as well as to educate
consumers about the importance of clean, accessible
water
for people and nature. This includes helping to protect
the 2.9 million miles of rivers that cover the United
States through projects like ensuring abundant water
in the Colorado River basin (which provides clean
drinking water to 40 million Americans and irrigates
more than ﬁve million acres of cropland) and safeguarding
clean water along the Ohio River (which provides hydropower
navigation, water supply, ﬂood protection and
recreation to communities across 14 U.S. states).
Collaboration and Disclosure
We partner with stakeholders and our communities to
help drive water stewardship programs. We are
committed to transparency and publicly disclose our
water stewardship strategies and goals, and report
on our
progress.
As a way to inform our water stewardship efforts,
Colgate engages with leading water experts. This
collaboration helps build expertise, align efforts
and ensure our water programs meet stakeholder
expectations.
100Progress
Our Water Footprint
Colgate’s water use footprint consists of the water
used by our suppliers to produce the raw and packaging
materials we purchase, the water used by our facilities
to manufacture our products, and the water associated
with consumer use of our products.
Although we continue to focus on reducing the water
used in our own operations, increasingly we are making
efforts to help manage water use along each step of
our value chain. The results of our ongoing water
footprint exercises have helped quantify the opportunity
to have a positive water impact beyond our own
operations.
101
Direct Operations
Colgate has had manufacturing water conservation goals
since 2002, and since then we have reduced the
water consumed per unit of production in the manufacture
of our products by 50 percent.(1) Our goal is to
reduce our manufacturing water intensity by half compared
to 2002 and ﬁnd ways to replenish water
withdrawn in highly stressed regions.
Key elements of our program include:
• 5% for the Planet
Colgate invests in water conservation strategies at
our global facilities through our manufacturing capital
expenditure program, 5% for the Planet, and by implementing
our Water Stewardship Strategy. A minimum
of one percent of the manufacturing capital expenditure
budget is targeted speciﬁcally toward water
conservation projects.
• True Cost of Water
Colgate’s True Cost of Water Toolkit, developed with
Rutgers University Business School’s Supply Chain
Management Program, is a manufacturing-based tool
designed to help sites quantify some of the hidden
costs of water, such as pretreatment, pumping, and
wastewater treatment, thereby increasing both
economic and environmental opportunities for reduction.
102
• Water Stewardship Standard
Colgate’s global Water Stewardship Standard is intended
to help ensure that all of our manufacturing
facilities and technology centers develop responsible
and appropriate programs to ensure that
water-related risks are understood and managed, and
that water conservation opportunities are
continuously evaluated and implemented in support
of Colgate’s environmental and sustainability goals.
Water Stewardship Strategy expectations vary by the
level of geographic water stress.
Guatemala City, Guatemala facility
The team at our Guatemala City facility implemented
a strategy
to control and reduce water consumption focusing on
a
systematic control of daily water consumption in every
area of
the site to identify and repair leaks and the decommissioning
of
obsolete piping. Their focused efforts helped save
the facility
nearly 4,000 m3 per month.
Canelands, South Africa facility
In 2019, the Canelands, South Africa facility began
to realize
savings from a recently completed multi-faceted project
that
reduced its water and energy consumption, reduced
absolute
material losses, improved product quality and increased
capacity. The Canelands team replaced four poor-performing
dryers with one highly eﬃcient dryer. This reduced
the facility’s
fuel consumption by over 60%. The team also upgraded
its
boiler to include a condensate recovery system which
recovers
an estimated 750 liters of water/hour. The project
also
included decommissioning an old highly ineﬃcient
cooling tower with a new cooling tower with an
estimated water savings of 500 liters/hour. This is
a great example of a facility project that supports
our
global water, energy, CO2 and waste reduction goals.
103
Water Replenishment
In regions with high water stress, we continue to
assess water risks and implement appropriate resilience
measures as a way to anticipate and mitigate the effects.
In 2015, Colgate developed a framework project to
create replenishment criteria, deﬁne geographical
boundaries and identify both environmental and
community-related options to meet our commitment to
replenish water in highly stressed regions.
Subsequently, we leveraged this project’s output by
piloting the overall replenishment approach for our
manufacturing sites in India. Through this work, we
identiﬁed future opportunities to maximize on-site
water
reduction by increasing rainwater harvesting and community
water projects.
Supply Chain Management
We continue to address supply chain water risks in
several ways. We are increasing supplier engagement
in our
Water Stewardship Strategy by participating in programs
such as the CDP Supply Chain Program. Additionally,
we are helping our product developers and procurement
teams understand and identify our most
water-intensive raw and packaging materials.
We requested several of our Tier I suppliers and suppliers
of water-intensive materials to participate in the
CDP
Supply Chain Program Water Disclosure to help us understand
and address water consequences and associated
risks and opportunities in our upstream supply chain.
In 2019, 40 percent of our Tier I direct material
suppliers,
by spend, responded to the survey, including our largest
raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers.
We
achieved 68 percent supplier participation.
To help reduce the water associated with the production
of raw materials, we are working to identify the
most
water-intensive materials in each of our product categories.
With this information, we are able to engage our
suppliers to better assess where there are opportunities
to reduce the water footprint of our products through
feedstock choices and conversion eﬃciency, particularly
in markets under high water stress.
In 2018, we collaborated with the Mint Industry Research
Council (MIRC) to gather and analyze data from mint
suppliers to better understand the climate and water
challenges across North America and share the insights
with the industry. In 2019, Colgate continued to engage
with MIRC on sustainable mint farming. MIRC invited
Colgate to present our mint farmer marketing campaign
at their annual meeting to demonstrate our shared
commitment to North America's mint farming industry.
Colgate collaborated with North America's mint farmers
to create a marketing campaign that featured MIRC
member mint farmers on displays in retail stores.
104Colgate also has representatives on the MIRC Scientiﬁc
Affairs Committee and the MIRC Board of Directors.
We
support the identiﬁcation and ﬁnancial support of
new research on improving the growth and use of North
American mint oils. An example of this type of research
is in the support of methods of irrigation. Understanding
the position of sprinkler heads to get closer to the
roots and reducing evaporation while providing enough
water
needed and not over watering. The research measures
the water savings versus more traditional overhead
watering. Much of overhead watering can be evaporated
and can cause mint oils in the leaves to be washed
away. New methods reduce evaporation, increase yields
and save overall water used to irrigate the crop.
Our Products
Colgate understands that the water required to use
our products represents the largest portion of our
overall
water footprint. To that end, water scarcity is an
opportunity for innovation. Colgate’s portfolio now
includes a
number of products that allow consumers to use less
water and we’re developing more
Palmolive Dish Eco-Respect is Colgate’s ﬁrst bottle
using 100% post-consumer
recycled PET in Europe. It has an improved sustainability
proﬁle, allowing for effective
use with cold water, is hypoallergenic with a biodegradable
formula free from fragrance
and dyes. It also carries the  EU ‘Ecolabel Certiﬁed’
seal on-pack.
105
Water Conservation Awareness
To help consumers conserve water as they use our products,
Colgate seeks
to promote water conservation awareness to all our
global consumers.
Through actions, such as turning off the faucet while
brushing their teeth
and washing their hands, much water can be conserved.
In 2019, Colgate
continued to expand our Save Water campaign globally
with messaging
around World Water Day on March 22 and beyond.
Colgate’s Save Water campaign, launched worldwide
in 2016,continues to increase consumer awareness
through messaging on our packaging, online and in
stores. Thanks to the ongoing efforts of Colgate People
around the world, we are helping drive greater awareness
of water issues―on World Water Day and every
day―among consumers, customers and fellow Colgate
People.
All our divisions engage Colgate People around the
world regardless of oﬃce size or location on World
Water
Day, inviting them to take a Save Water pledge and
spread the word about water conservation. Some locations
also hold events with guest speakers and or employees
volunteering in the local community. The Save Water
message appears on our toothpaste and toothbrush packaging,
soaps and cleaning products. Thanks to the
ongoing efforts of Colgate People around the world,
we are helping drive greater awareness of water issues—on
World Water Day and every day—among consumers, customers
and fellow Colgate People.
Celebr ating Our Sa ve Water Commitments
Colgate hosted a media event panel at the United Nations
headquarters in NYC during 2019 Climate Week to
share insights from our ongoing Save Water campaign,
launched in 2016. To date, our Save Water program
has
helped avoid using an estimated 99 billion gallons
of water and an estimated 5.5 million metric tons
of
greenhouse gas emissions.
In celebration of World Water Day, we asked
children related to Colgate People working in our
plants why they think saving water is important.
Hear what they had to say
.
106
Colgate presented
“Running
Dry: Saving the Verde
River”
. As part
of Colgate’s Save Water campaign, we partnered with
The Nature
Conservancy scientist Kari Vigerstol and water activist
and
ultra-runner Mina Guli to bring attention to the Verde
River basin
which provides water to the Phoenix metropolitan area.
The
water quantity has been decreasing in the last 15
to 20 years.
Colgate partners with a number of organizations, including
Water for People in Latin America and Asia, to
provide underserved communities with access to clean
water.
In 2019, Colgate India, continued its partnership
with Water For
People India Trust, and its Amravati Water initiative
in the
villages of Amravati District of Maharashtra. This
expansion of
Colgate’s partnership with Water For People continues
as a
result of their successful collaboration in Bihar
and West
Bengal, since 2013. The program aims to support projected
cumulative coverage to 36 villages by 2022. Collaborations
and
engagement with local communities, local and district
level
government authorities and stakeholders have played
a vital
role in building the infrastructure, operation and
maintenance
of water facilities and ownership. Innovative solution
to water testing is executed through water quality
testing toolkits which are handy to test bacterial
contamination. Local youth and women are trained
to
carry out these tests. See how
our partnership in
India is changing lives
.
Colgate continues to raise public awareness of the
global water
crisis and the importance of water conservation because
#EveryDropCounts. Around the Colgate World viewings
were
held of the charity event One Night for One Drop,
a performance
by Cirque du Soleil sponsored by Colgate. The show
aired on
national television in the U.S. on March 16th, 2019.
107
Water and Sanitation Access
One of Colgate’s 2020 Sustainability Strategy goals
is to work with local and global organizations to
help
promote access to clean water and provide oral health
and hygiene education in communities around the world.
In that spirit, Colgate is proud to continue our commitment
to support water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH)
programming through our partnership with Water For
People as they pursue their mission to reach Everyone
Forever with WASH services across Guatemala, India
and Peru. From 2013 through 2019, Colgate’s total
support
of more than $1.8 million has helped more than 322,000
people in communities and 207,000 people in public
schools and health clinics gain access to safe water
services, more than 245,000 people gain access to
improved sanitation and more than 460,000 people learn
about proper hygiene.
In 2019, Colgate continued our partnership with Water
For People in Guatemala and India to strengthen and
support the municipal water and sanitation oﬃces
that were established since we began our partnership
in
2013. Our partnership exists to promote the development
of high-quality drinking water and sanitation services,
accessible to all, and sustained by strong communities,
businesses and governments.
We also recognize that communities facing
inadequate access to safe water often do not
have suﬃcient sanitation services and that
handwashing is not widely practiced. Colgate
continues to work with public health oﬃcials,
academia, local schools and clinics to educate
millions of children and their families about the
health and hygiene beneﬁts of handwashing.
Further, as a matter of long-standing practice,
Colgate provides safe water, sanitation and
hygiene to all people in our workplaces.
Water For People - San Andrés Sajcabajá, Guatemala
108
Wastewater Management
Wastewater discharges from Colgate’s operations are
generally treated on site and/or by the local municipality
prior to discharge to a body of water. We continue
to work to reduce pollutant-loading in our wastewater
discharges prior to treatment. In selected locations
where water stress is high, Colgate treats wastewater
to
tertiary levels, allowing it to be reused for cooling,
toilet ﬂushing, gardening and other purposes.
Collaboration and Disclosure
As a way to inform our water stewardship efforts,
Colgate engages with leading water experts. This
collaboration helps build expertise, align efforts
and ensure our water programs meet stakeholder expectations.
We are also committed to transparency and reporting
publicly on our water stewardship and reduction
performance. Colgate participates on the United Nations
CEO Water Mandate Action Platform as part of our
commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC).
This initiative seeks to mobilize business leaders
to
advance water stewardship, sanitation and the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Colgate
is working with the UNGC to leverage the SDGs in the
ongoing development of our water stewardship and
sustainability strategies. Additionally, we have joined
the UNGC Action Platform on climate related Pathways
to
Low-Carbon and Resilient Development.
Working Toward Zero Landﬁll Waste
Colgate sites are reducing, reusing and
recycling waste. As part of our 2020
Sustainability Strategy, we have
committed to halve our manufacturing
waste sent to the landﬁll per ton of
product compared to 2010, working
toward our goal of Zero Waste.
109
In 2017, Colgate initiated a new relationship with
the
Green Business Certiﬁcation Inc
. (GBCI) on
its TRUE (Total
Resource Use and Eﬃciency) Zero Waste certiﬁcation
program, adopting it as our global platform to drive
Zero
Waste. Currently, manufacturing facilities in all
geographies are using the TRUE Zero Waste approach
and tools.
Additionally, we are aligning our global waste data
management systems with TRUE Zero Waste to ensure
uniform measurement of results.
As of 2019, a total of 16 Colgate manufacturing facilities
achieved GBCI
TRUE Zero Waste certiﬁcation. Colgate has the ﬁrst
TRUE Zero Waste
facilities in Latin America, continental Europe, India,
China and Vietnam.
Colgate is truly a global leader in this space with
more TRUE Zero Waste
projects than any other company in any industry. As
a result, Colgate
received a U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) 2019
Leadership Award in
recognition of exemplary work and leadership in the
green building industry.
The TRUE Zero Waste program goes beyond just looking
at diversion rates. It is a whole system approach
that
encourages companies to ﬁnd ways to reduce waste
throughout their supply chain. For example, it encourages
facilities to work with vendors to identify alternatives
to non-recyclable packaging and inspires facilities
to
implement strategies to reduce the amount of packaging
for outbound materials.
110
An aspect of the TRUE Zero Waste
program that embeds the concept
of waste diversion at our facilities
is the
high level of employee engagement. From “Green Teams”
to “Trash to Treasure Dumpster Dive” events, our
employees are engaged to achieve zero waste every
day.
Our commitments in action:
●
 Trash-to-Treasure Exercise, Goa, India
Colgate is the ﬁrst company in India to be recognized
for having
TRUE Zero Waste facilities and is ﬁnding innovative
ways to
reduce, reuse and recycle waste at our four Indian
manufacturing
sites.
●
 The Green Business Certiﬁcation Institute
(GBCI) has approved a new on-pack
certiﬁcation mark for all Colgate products
manufactured in any of our TRUE Zero Waste
facilities. With this TRUE mark on-pack, we
can share our sustainability commitment with
consumers and customers.
●
 Multiple Colgate sites have worked with suppliers
to replace cardboard cores on materials, such as
shrink wrap rolls and label rolls, with reusable cores
that are returned to the supplier for reuse.
111
Reducing Consumer W aste
We recognize the importance of reducing waste at every
stage of the product
lifecycle, including at the end-of-life of our products
and packaging. W e have
committed to delivering 100 percent recyclable packaging
in our Personal
Care, Home Care and Hill’ s Pet Nutrition categories
by 2020 and 100 percent
recyclable packaging in all categories, including
Oral Care, by 2025.
Our investments in packaging innovation continue to
bear fruit. In 2019, we
launched a first-of-its-kind recyclable toothpaste
tube, the first oral or
personal care tube to be recognized by the Association
of Plastic Recyclers.
The recyclable toothpaste tube debuted under the Tom’s
of Maine brand in the United States and the
Colgate Smile for Good brand in Europe. Consistent
with the Company’ s commitment to sustainability ,
Colgate is making this innovative technology available
to interested third parties  as part of its campaign
to
increase recyclability of toothpaste tubes. Read more
information on our packaging commitments and
progress.
We believe building a circular economy in which industrial
materials and packaging can be recycled and reused
is an important part of a sustainable future. In addition
to commitments for our own packaging, Colgate has
committed to work with stakeholders to drive continuous
improvement in local recycling systems.
In 2014, we became one of the initial investors in
the Closed Loop
Infrastructure Fund to develop local recycling infrastructure
and sustainable
manufacturing technologies that advance the circular
economy. In the United
States, municipalities often lack access to the capital
to invest in recycling
programs and infrastructure. The Closed Loop Infrastructure
Fund provides
zero-interest loans to municipalities and below-market
loans to private companies with a goal to develop
infrastructure and improve recycling rates. The fund
also seeks to co-invest with local private and public
entities to magnify its impact. The fund has invested
in the collection, sorting and processing of recyclables.
To learn more, visit ClosedLoop Partners' website
here
.
112
Since its inception, the Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund has invested in 27 projects and deployed $58M to date,
with an additional $220M contributed by co-investors. One of Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund’s investments –
to Eureka Recycling in Minneapolis-Saint Paul – has
enabled Eureka to triple their recovery of polypropylene
(the
commonly used plastic in to-go containers). Eureka
sorts 100,000 tons of recyclables every year, diverting
valuable materials from landﬁll. To learn more, read
the
Closed Loop Fund’s 2019 Impact Report
.
Commitment t o Sustainable Buildings
Colgate has committed to the U.S. Green Building Council
(USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental
Design (LEED) certiﬁcation for all of our new construction
projects around the world. We have used the LEED
green building rating system to help design and construct
our manufacturing
sites, technology centers, warehouses and oﬃces
as one way to help reduce
our overall exposure to water and climate change-related
issues and offer a
healthier, more comfortable work environment.
Currently, Colgate has 19 facilities that have achieved
26 LEED Certiﬁcations, with
one additional project underway. Our LEED projects
have been conducted in the
United States, Latin America, Asia and Europe. In
addition, we use several
LEED-certiﬁed third-party distribution centers. Colgate
has been a member
company of the USGBC since 2007. Colgate continues
to collaborate and engage
with USGBC in the advancement of LEED and green building
practices for the
global manufacturing sector. Further information about
Colgate’s LEED-certiﬁed
buildings is available on the USGBC
Green Building
Information Gateway
.
In 2018, Colgate achieved three new LEED certiﬁcations
at our Burlington, New Jersey Oral Care manufacturing
site (LEED Silver), our Greenwood, South Carolina
Personal Care manufacturing site (LEED Certiﬁed),
and at
113
our Sri City, India Toothbrush manufacturing site (LEED Gold). In 2019, Colgate’s Burlington, N.J. ﬂavors facility
was the ﬁrst site in the world to achieve LEED Zero
Certiﬁcation by the U.S. Green Building Council
for net zero
carbon, energy, water and waste.
More rooftops across Colgate are supporting solar
panels as we strive to reach our goal of 100%
renewable electricity in our global operations by
2030.  Our Technology Campus in Piscataway, NJ, is
the
latest facility that's harnessing the power of the
sun.
●
The renewable energy generated by the project’s phase
1 is equivalent to the greenhouse gas emissions
saved by nearly 1,600,000 miles driven by an average
passenger vehicle,  74 homes’ energy use for one
year or our Technology Campus Datacenter Building
being offset 100%.
●
This also equates to the greenhouse gas emissions
avoided by 217 tons of waste recycled instead of
landﬁlled or 24,300 incandescent lamps switched to
LED.
114
Responsibly Made
Our products are made at Colgate-Palmolive facilities
that are increasing energy
and water eﬃciency, driving towards zero waste,
striving for no workplace
accidents, and adhering to ethical labor practices.
Visit
Responsibly Made
to learn
more about Colgate’s commitment to responsibly made
products.
Committed t o Responsible Sour cing
Colgate-Palmolive is committed to source materials and services, responsibly,
meaning with the goal of not causing harm to or exploiting
people or the
environment. To support our commitment to Responsible
Sourcing we focus
on four key pillars: protection of the environment,
ethical labor practices, the
health & safety of people, and business integrity.
Through execution of the Colgate programs, policies
and initiatives shared
here; we continue to make steady progress along our
responsible sourcing journey. Colgate is
continuously assessing and benchmarking its policies
and evaluating our suppliers and the industries in
which they operate to ensure our ingredients continue
to be responsibly sourced.
Fundamental to our commitment are four key policies
and initiatives; our third party code of conduct,
ensuring the safety of our ingredients, our due diligence
practices with third parties and our focus on
climate change & water stewardship. To learn more
visit
Committed to Responsible Sourcing
.
Sustainability Repor ting
For a complete list of Colgate sustainability reports,
visit
sustainability report archives.
115
Partnerships
An important element of Colgate’s sustainability strategy
is our engagement and collaboration with external
partners, which complement our strong internal capabilities.
Colgate partners with a broad array of
organizations, including suppliers, customers, research
institutions, universities, industry, and nonproﬁts.
These
partnerships are important to us to help us achieve
our ambitions, particularly in the areas of climate,
plastic
waste, water, no deforestation, oral health and other
key areas of sustainability impact.
Partnerships: Take Action on Climate Change
116
Partnerships: Plastic Waste Reduction
Partnerships: Water Stewardship
117
Partnerships: Source Sustainably
Partnerships: Improving Children’s Dental Hygiene
118
Partnerships: Collaborate on Sustainability
119
