Giving the World Reasons to SmileColgate Sustainability Report 2015
Giving the World Reasons to Smile
About This Report
Unless otherwise indicated, this report includes environmental, occupational health 
and safety data from 100 percent of Colgate’s manufacturing sites and technology centers around the world excluding contract manufacturers. Certain information relates to our broader value chain: Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment Program data includes selected contract manufacturers and suppliers; our greenhouse gas and water footprints include additional data from upstream and downstream in our value chain; progress on our Policy on No Deforestation includes selected suppliers. Financial information is presented on a consolidated basis and  in U.S. dollars. The report provides data for Colgate’s fiscal year 2015 along with  prior history and more recent updates where indicated. 
This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability  
Reporting Guidelines.
For feedback, questions and comments related to Colgate’s 2015 Sustainability 
Report, please contact csr@colpal.com. For all other inquiries, please visit Colgate’s Consumer Affairs site at ColgatePalmolive.com. 
Contents:Message from Ian Cook
 3
Company Profile  4
Sustainability Management  6
Awar
ds and Recognition  9
2011 to 2015 Strategy  10
2015 to 2020 Strategy  12
Driving Sustainability Through Our Pr
oduct Categories  17
n  People  26
n  Performance  60
n  Planet  84
Partnerships 121
Key Performance Indicators  124
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index  126
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures  130
Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements 
This report, including our 2011 to 2015 and our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategies, contains forward-
looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements are made on the basis of Colgate’s views and assumptions as of this time, and Colgate undertakes no obligation to update these statements except as required by law. Colgate cautions investors that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual events or results may differ materially from these statements due to a number of factors. For information about factors that could impact Colgate’s business and cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, consult our filings with the SEC (including the information set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” in Colgate’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015).At Colgate, our long-term commitment to sustainability 
helps drive our strong performance as we partner with our consumers, suppliers and customers to advance our business success and Give the World Reasons to Smile.
 As 2015 ended, we moved to our next phase 
Sustainability goals for 2020 with gratitude to the Colgate people everywhere who helped us advance our strategy fr
om 2011 to 2015. Through their efforts, we have 
improved the health and well-being of our communities, made our products more sustainable and helped to conserve the planet’s vital resources. 
At the same time, our journey has made clear to us 
how much mor
e there is to do and how vital it is that 
we continue our progress. Recognizing this, our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy involves more Colgate people, engages more of our consumers and partners and sets more ambitious goals for our performance. These new goals build on existing commitments, taking us deeper into the areas where we can truly make a difference. 
 In this 2015 Sustainability Report, you will see highlights of our progr
ess in all areas of 
our strategy, including our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) oral education program, which is celebrating its 25th Anniversary in 2016. Colgate people take great pride in this initiative, which is among the most successful children’s oral health initiatives in the world. Through long-standing partnerships with governments, schools and communities, BSBF has reached more than 850 million children and their families across 80 countries with free dental screenings and oral health education. 
 Colgate people can also take pride in the other critical 2011 to 2015 accomplishments:
n We improved the sustainability profile in 85 percent of new products. 
n We surpassed our 2015 targets for greenhouse gas and energy reduction and con-tinue to work towar
ds our goal of a 25 percent absolute greenhouse gas reduction by 
2020, which will help us do our part in the fight against climate change.
n We are educating millions of consumers about the importance of saving water thr
ough our Save Water campaigns, bringing a 2016 World Water Day message to 
“Turn Off the Faucet” to over 60 countries.  
Colgate people remain deeply committed to the 2020 goals we outline in this r
eport. 
All of us are excited to help make a difference for our communities and the planet by advancing these efforts. With their help, I am confident that Colgate will continue Giving the World Reasons to Smile.
Thank you,
Ian Cook
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Message from Ian CookFounded in 1806, Colgate-Palmolive is a $16.034 billion consumer 
products company that serves people around the world with well-known brands that make their lives healthier and more enjoyable.
Colgate Brands
Colgate manufactures and markets Oral Care, Personal Care, Home Care and Pet 
Nutrition products under trusted brands such as Colgate, Palmolive, Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick, Sanex, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, elmex, Tom’s of Maine, Ajax, Fabuloso, Soupline, Suavitel, Hill’s Science Diet, Hill’s Prescription Diet and Hill’s Ideal Balance.
Operations
Colgate operates in over 80 countries, and our products are marketed in over 200 countries and territories. 
Approximately 37,900 Colgate employees drive our success.Headquartered in New York City, Colgate operates through six divisions around 
the world: 
The Company has over 50 manufacturing and research facilities globally. The vast majority 
of Colgate products are manufactured in Colgate-owned facilities. Six Divisions
Softsoap Blue- PMS 661
Silver- Foil Stamp
®
® ®
Company Profile
Hill’s Pet Nutrition Africa/EurasiaNorth America Latin America Europe
Asia/South Pacific
Colgate Values
Colgate’s success is linked to the Company’s values of  
Caring, Global Teamwork and Continuous Improvement.
n Caring
The Company cares about people: Colgate people, customers, shar
eholders and business partners. Colgate 
is committed to act with compassion, integrity, honesty and high ethics in all situations and to listen with respect to others and to value differences. The Company is also committed to protect the global environment, to enhance the communities where Colgate people live and work and to be compliant with government laws and regulations.n Global Teamwork
All Colgate people ar
e part of a global team, committed 
to working together across countries, and throughout the world. Only by sharing ideas, technologies and talents can the Company achieve and sustain profitable growth.
n Continuous Improvement
Colgate is committed to getting better every day in all it does as individuals and as teams. By better under
-
standing consumers’ and customers’ expectations and continuously working to innovate and improve products, services and processes, Colgate will become the best.
nEnvironmental, Occupational Health & Safety Policy Statement
nCode of Conduct
nThird-Party Code of Conduct
n FCPA and Anti-Bribery Policy 
n Non-Retaliation Policyn Political Contributions Policy
nIngredient Safety Policy 
nQuality Policy Statement 
nProduct Safety Research Policy
n Hill’s Pet Nutrition Commitment  to Animal Welfare nPolicy on No Deforestation
nState of California Disclosur e:  
Supply Chain Transparency
n Policy on Conflict Minerals
nGlobal HIV/AIDS Policy StatementColgate External Policy Statements  Company Profile
Business Strength
(1) 2013–2015 exclude charges related to the 2012 Restructuring Program. 
2012–2014 exclude costs related to the sale of land in Mexico. 2011  
excludes costs associated with various business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives. A complete reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP) and including a description of such items is available on Colgate’s website and on page 130 of this report. 
(2) 2015 excludes a gain from the sale of the Company’s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific and excludes charges related to a change in accounting for the Company’s Venezuelan operations, the 2012 Restructuring Program and certain other 2015 items. 2013 and 2014 exclude charges related to the 2012 Restructuring Program, 
remeasurement charges resulting from devaluations and effective devaluations in Venezuela and certain other 2013 and 201 4 items. 
2012 excludes charges related to the 2012 Restructuring Program and certain other 2012 items. 2011 excludes costs associated with business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives and certain other 2011 items. A complete reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP) and including a description of such items, is available on Colgate’s website and on page 130 of this report.
(3) Per share amounts have been restated for the 2013 two-for-one stock split.’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’1158.7(1)58.7(1)58.8(1)
58.3(1)
58.558.6
58.1
57.357.6(1)2.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)
2.572.51(2)
2.471.50
1.42
1.33
1.22
1.14
’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’1158.6
2.36 2.38
16.0 17.317.4
17.1
16.7
1.52Net Sales ($ billions) Gross Profit Margin (% of sales) Diluted Earnings(3) ($ per share) Dividends Paid(3) ($ per share)Sustainability Management
Approach to Reporting
We recognize that transparency is important and 
provides a window into the Company’s performance on sustainability. It is important to Colgate to provide the sustainability information relevant to a broad range of stakeholders, including consumers, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and our own employees. In selecting reporting topics, we work to align with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Each year, we strive to build the capacity to report on more indicators. As such, this report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. A GRI Content Index is provided on page 126. We additionally have identified the key sustainability issues of importance to Colgate and our stakeholders (see page 7). It is also our goal to provide context for our reporting; for example, our discussion of our water stewardship practices is written within the context of global water stress. Finally, we include the stories and photographs that bring our sustainability commitment to life, highlighting the enthusiasm and commitment of Colgate people around the world.
 Many Colgate people across multiple geographies 
contribute to the development of this r
eport each year. 
A process is in place to manage the flow of information and help ensure accuracy. Colgate has also obtained third-party assurance for our primary environmental Key Performance Indicators: percentage of products with an improved sustainability profile, manufacturing carbon reduction per ton (of production), manufacturing energy reduction per ton, manufacturing water consumption per ton, waste-to-landfill per ton and outbound logistics carbon per ton. We also disclose information on our sustainability progress to several organizations. Colgate has provided information to CDP for over a decade. We have responded to the Climate Disclosure since 2004, the Water Disclosure since 2010 and the Forest Disclosure since 2012. Colgate also joined the CDP Supply Chain Program in 2008 to engage our suppliers. Colgate provides information to RobecoSAM to inform the Dow Jones Sustainability Index rankings as well as to several other ratings organizations. Colgate’s sustainability information is also available on the Bloomberg Terminal.
Key Issues, Risks and Opportunities
Materiality Approach
As a publicly-traded U.S. company, Colgate files 
required reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K highlights risks material to an investment in the Company, including those relating to sustainability, namely trade expectations, volatility in material costs, reputational impact, changes in regulatory requirements, industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues, environmental events, disruptions in logistics, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, raw material and product quality or safety issues and natural disasters (e.g., climatic events). Colgate has also identified a set of key sustainability issues for the Company, taking into account the issues of interest to our stakeholders.Deforestation
(See page 117)Climate 
Change
(See page 86)Ingredient 
Safety
(See page 66)Sustainable 
Packaging
(See page 73)Responsible 
Sourcing and  
Human Rights
(See page 44)Oral Health
(See page 47)Water
Stewardship
(See page 97)Sustainability Management
Key Sustainability IssuesTo determine the sustainability issues of interest to our stakeholders, we evaluated information from sources  
such as:
 We then categorized and prioritized the issues with the most potential to impact our operations or supply chain 
or to create r
egulatory or reputational risk. In addition to risk, we considered whether an issue has potential to cre-
ate shared value for both Colgate and society. From this process, seven key sustainability issues were identified: 
 Colgate is managing risks and opportunities related to these issues through the implementation of our 2015 
to 2020 Sustainability Strategy as well as thr
ough our Enterprise Risk Management process. These same issues 
also provide an opportunity to drive innovation and growth, strengthen brand reputation and demonstrate our commitment to responsible business—to Giving the World Reasons to Smile. Additional detail on each of the issues and our actions to address them is provided in the body of the report.nIndustry trade groups such as the American Cleaning Institute (ACI), the Grocery Manufactur
ers 
Association (GMA) and the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), including the industry-wide materiality assessment performed by the ACI
nRetail partner surveys and inquiries
nConsumer inquiries 
nNGO feedback
nSustainability investor group inquiries and feedbacknCurrent and future regulatory requirements
nLeading sustainability surveys and rating agencies
nMedia inquiries and interest
nSustainability Accounting Standards Board
nGlobal Reporting Initiative
nIndustry benchmarking 
nInternal subject matter expert and Sustainability Steering Committee feedbackSustainability Management
Stakeholder Engagement
A wide variety of stakeholders help to inform our 
approach to sustainability. We engage with stake-holders on an ongoing basis to communicate Colgate’s sustainability progress and listen to feedback. In fact, our sustainability commitments and goals were developed with the input of these stakeholders. See page 121 for a full list of Colgate’s partnerships and detail on our engagement. Colgate’s main stakeholder groups include:
n Our employees
nOur consumers
nOur retail customers and partners
nOur suppliers
nOur shareholders and investor groups
nGovernment and regulatory bodies
nNon-governmental associations
nIndustry trade associations
nLocal communities and community groups
Sustainability Governance
A Sustainability Steering Committee made up of Colgate’s Chief Operating Officer, North America, Europe, Africa/Eurasia and Global Sustainability; Vice President, Global Sustainability and EHS; Chief Technology Officer; Senior Vice President of Global Human Resources; Vice President of Global Compensation and Benefits; Chief Marketing Officer; and Chief Supply Chain Officer makes strategic decisions related to sustainability and guides the organization to meet sustainability goals. Colgate’s Vice President of Global Sustainability and EHS has direct responsibility for implementing sustainability and EHS programs. Additionally, networks of senior leaders in each division together with local champions support on-the-ground sustainability efforts, communications and reporting. Global functions such as Human Resources, Packaging, Procurement and Technology coordinate certain aspects of the program where global consistency is appropriate. Moreover, to provide incentives for Colgate people to integrate sustainability into business strategy and operations, Colgate’s global sustainability initiatives have been added to the individual objectives used to determine the compensation for many of Colgate’s senior managers. 
 Colgate’s Chairman, President and CEO and full 
Boar
d of Directors are kept abreast of the Company’s 
progress via regular updates and consider sustainability matters, risks and opportunities in decision-making. Sustainability is considered an emerging risk as part of our Enterprise Risk Management planning; as part of that process, the Board is briefed on key sustainability issues. Additionally, Colgate’s Chief Financial Officer provides the Audit Committee of the Board of Direc-tors with an update on the Company’s Risk and Crisis Management Program. The Personnel and Organiza-tion Committee of the Board reviews the Company’s social responsibility programs and other public interest matters, including cultural diversity, equal opportunity, charitable giving and international human rights.
 Colgate’s values of Caring, Global Teamwork and 
Continuous Impr
ovement guide the actions of our 
people and are the foundation of Colgate’s commitment to sustainability. Several Company-wide policies outline Colgate’s commitments to responsible business, from our Code of Conduct to our Ingredient Safety Policy. For a full list of external policy statements, see page 5. Awards and Recognition
Colgate continues to be recognized for efforts in Sustainability and Social Responsibility:
Brandz Top 100 
No. 57 
n
Best Global Brands
Colgate was ranked in 2015 
by Interbrand as one of the  
Best Global Brands
n 
In 2015 Forbes named  
Colgate one of the  
World’s Most Valuable Brands,  
Most Innovative Companies  
and 25 Most Reputable Companies
n
Ranked No. 9 in 
Global Supply Chain Top 25  
by IT research and advisory  
company Gartner
n
Colgate named No. 1 Most Trusted 
Brand in India by The Economic 
Times Brand Equity
n
Ranked by Advantage Group in the 
top tier of suppliers in 12 of 17  
markets when assessed for our 
ability to work with retailers to meet 
goals on social and environmental 
sustainability2016 World’s Most  
Ethical Companies from  
Ethisphere Magazine
n
Top 50 Companies for  
Executive Women 2016 from
National Association for  
Female Executives 
n
No. 38 in Top 50  
Companies for Diversity 2015
n
2015 Working Mother  
100 Best Companies and  
Best Companies for  
Multicultural Women
n
Job search engine Indeed.com and 
Forbes recognized Colgate as one  
of the 25 Big Companies with  
 Best Work-Life Balance  
for the third consecutive year
n
Colgate named one of the  
50 Best Employers in America  
by Business InsiderColgate named to  
2014/2015 Dow Jones  
Sustainability North  
America IndexColgate named to  
2016 Fortune  
World’s Most Admired  
Companies list  Colgate ranked on No.76 
Corporate Responsibility  
Magazine’s 100 Best  
Corporate Citizens list
People Performance Planet
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 
Partner of the Year 2016 for the  
6th year in a row, with recognition  
for Sustained Excellence
n
72% of Colgate’s manufacturing  
facilities have achieved  
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR  
Challenge for Industry recognition
n
Colgate was ranked as one of  
the Best Global Green Brands 
in 2015 by Interbrand
n
Colgate ranked in  
Newsweek Green Rankings 
2015 - No. 49 in U.S.,  
No. 79 global
n
Colgate was named to the CDP 
Climate Disclosure Leadership Index 
for the fifth time in 2015 
n
Colgate was one of eight companies 
globally named to the CDP Water 
A List in 2015 for leadership in 
water stewardship
n
Colgate was presented with USGBC’s
2015 Ray Anderson Radical
Industrialism Award for exemplifying
sustainability leadership in the  
evolution of green manufacturing
Reducing  
Our Impact  
on Climate  
and the  
EnvironmentMaking 
Every Drop 
of Water  
CountDelivering 
Products 
That Delight 
Consumers 
and Respect 
Our PlanetContributing  
to the 
Communities 
Where We 
Live and 
WorkPromoting 
Healthier  
Lives
We Will 
n Promote health  
and wellness to reduce 
employee health risks  by 15%
(1)
n Achieve a 5% reduc-
tion in health costs and an improvement in early diagnosis of chronic and treatable disease
n Continue to focus 
on safety to achieve the goal of zero lost-time incidentsWe Will 
n Commit over $300 
million to increase  our impact in the  community
n Partner with  
dental professionals  to improve community  oral health care
n Expand Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures program externally  to reach one billion  children by 2020
n Provide hand- 
washing awareness  to over 50 million households
n Work with 250,000 
veterinarians worldwide to educate pet owners and provide over $100 million in pet food  to shelters
n Continue to provide 
Colgate products after natural disasters 
n Involve more  
Colgate volunteers  in our community  programsWe Will 
n Increase the sustain-
ability profile in all new products we produce and in the balance of our portfolio
n Ensure that ingredi-
ents continue to meet or exceed all recog-nized standards for safety, quality and envi-ronmental compliance and biodegradability
n Reduce the environ-
mental impact of our products and packages by 20% by increasing the use of sustainable  materials and recycled content We Will 
n Reduce the water 
consumed(2) in the  
manufacture of our products by 40% vs. 2005 consumption
n Reduce the use of 
water associated with our products by 15%
n Work with local and 
global organizations to help pr
omote access  
to clean water
n Promote water  
conservation aware-ness among over two billion consumersWe Will 
n Reduce energy  
consumption(2) and  
carbon emissions(2) 
associated with the manufacture
(3) and  
distribution(4) of our 
products by 20%
n Reduce waste(2)(5) 
sent to landfills from  our operations by 15%
n Request that all key 
suppliers measure and disclose climate change information2011 to 2015 Strategy
(1) 15% risk reduction will be measured using the Global Health 
Risk Assessment tool, launched in 2013, available to countries 
with 100 or more employees 
(2) Per unit of production 
(3) Vs. 2005
(4) Baseline year varies by geography
(5) Vs. 2010Promoting  
Healthier  
 LivesContributing  
to the  
Communities  
Where We Live  
and WorkDelivering  
Products That  
Delight Consumers 
and Respect Our 
PlanetMaking Every  
Drop of  
Water CountReducing Our 
Impact on  
Climate and 
the EnvironmentProgress to Date
Colgate is pleased to report excellent progress on the Company’s 2011 to 2015 Sustainability Strategy. The Company was again 
named to the 2014–2015 Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index, recognized as a U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the sixth year in a row and was one of eight companies globally to be named to the CDP Water A List in 2015 for leadership in Water Stewardship. In addition to the highlights below, more about Colgate’s Sustainability Strategy progress is available on Colgate’s Sustainability website at ColgatePalmolive.com/Sustainability.
PEOPLE PLANET PERFORMANCE
(1) The performance results are based on representative new products and product updates evaluated against comparable Colgate 
products, considering a 2010 baseline, across seven impact areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, 
based on review of quantitative and qualitative data.
(2) Subject to final certification by a third-party auditor.l Over half of Colgate 
employees have been 
invited to take advan-tage of a Health Risk Assessment tool to help them self-evalu-ate health status and understand risks, and to provide confidential 
feedback to motivate behavior change.
l Over 21,000 Colgate 
employees reached the goal of at least 500 minutes of healthy activity during the June Global Healthy Activity Challenge, together log -
ging in over 23 million minutes.
l Colgate celebrat-
ed World AIDS Day at many sites around the world to incr ease 
awar
eness and improve  
education on the sub-ject of HIV/AIDS. Free and confidential testing was also available in some locations.l The World Health 
Organization identifies caries, or cavities, as the most chr
onic global 
disease. Colgate has the unique ability to ad -
dress this issue and im-prove the oral health of children and their fami-lies ar ound the world. In 
2016, Colgate’ s Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futur
es 
oral health education program celebrates 25 years of educating chil -
dren and improving oral health. Bright Smiles, Bright Futures r eached 
over 50 million childr
en 
in 2015, for a total of over 850 million children since its inception in 1991.
l Hill’s Pet Nutrition 
has contributed pet food with a retail value of nearly $285 million to nearly 1,000 pet  
shelters since 2002. These donations have helped more than eight million dogs and cats find their for ever homes.l Approximately 
85% of the products evaluated with Col-gate’s Pr
oduct Sus-
tainability Scorecard were determined to be 
“mor e sustainable,” 
having an impr
ovement 
in at least one of the following areas: re -
sponsible sourcing and raw materials, energy and gr eenhouse gases, 
water
, waste, ingredient 
profile, packaging and social metrics.
(1)
l 37% of our packag-
ing materials, by weight globally, now come from r
ecycled sources.
l Colgate has made 
great strides in meeting our commitment to eliminate phthalates, microplastic beads, formaldehyde donors and parabens fr
om 
our products. For more information see Colgate’s Policy on Ingredient Safety on the Company’s Sustainability website.l From 2005 to 2015, 
Colgate reduced water use per ton of pr
o-
duction by over 33%, avoiding enough water use to fill appr oximately 
7,
700 Olympic-sized 
swimming pools.(2)
l Colgate continues to 
roll out our Save Water campaign globally to pr
omote water conser -
vation awareness, with on-package messaging, in-store communica-tions and a partnership with The Natur e Con-
servancy in the U.S. 
l Colgate’s contri-
butions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever pr
ogram helped 
them to reach nearly 100,000 people in 2015 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education in Guatemala, Peru and India.l From 2005 to 2015, 
Colgate reduced gr
een-
house gas emissions per ton of production by over 26%, exceed-ing our 201 5 goal and 
avoiding emissions equivalent to r emoving 
over 200,000 passenger cars fr om the r
oad for 
one year.(2)
l Colgate was pre-
sented the 2015 Ray Anderson Radical Industrialism Awar d by 
the U.S. Gr
een Building 
Council as recogni -
tion for exemplifying sustainability leadership in the evolution of green manufacturing.
l Working toward the 
Company’s goal of Zer
o 
Waste, Colgate has reduced the amount of waste per ton of pro -
duction sent to landfills by over 40% since 2010.
(2) 
l Colgate continues 
to progress on our commitment to mobilize r
esources to achieve 
zero net deforestation by 2020 as stated in our Policy on No Deforestation.2011 to 2015 Strategy2015 to 2020 Strategy
Colgate’s 2015 to 2020 Strategy maintains our emphasis on People, Performance and Planet, 
with focused, measurable goals that align with the Company’s business objectives. 
We Will 
n Continuously 
improve employee 
health and reduce health risks by 15%
(1)
n Encourage healthier 
living for Colgate People and their  families
n Ensure a safe  
and healthy work  environment with a goal of zero lost-time incidents
n Provide education 
and tools to Colgate people to elevate  financial awareness  and planningWe Will 
n Expand Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures program to reach 1.3 billion children 
n Invest in the im-
provement of health, education and environ-ment for thousands of people in communities around the globe
n Partner with animal 
shelters to help over 2 million dogs and cats find a home
n Reach 60 million 
people annually with handwashing education 
n Expand Colgate 
Cares Day globally  to be a leader in  volunteerismWe Will
 
n Improve the sustain-
ability profile in our new products and product updates
(2) 
n Commit $250 million 
to drive sustainabili-ty with breakthrough product and process innovation
n Increase the recy-
clability of our pack-aging and increase recycled content to 50%
n Have a positive 
impact by expanding access to affordable health and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities
n Use the power of 
our brands to build awareness and drive engagement in product sustainabilityWe Will 
n Reduce our 
manufacturing water intensity by half compared to 2002 
n Replenish water 
withdrawn in highly stressed regions
n Increase supplier 
participation in our water stewardship program
n Partner with 
local and global organizations to bring clean water to underserved areas of the world
n Promote water 
conservation awareness to all our global consumersWe Will 
n Responsibly source 
forest commodities to reach zero net defor-estation
n Promote use of 
renewable energy and reduce absolute green-house gas emissions from manufacturing by 25% compared to 2002 
n Reduce our man-
ufacturing energy intensity by one third compared to 2002
n Halve our manu-
facturing waste sent to landfill per ton of product compared to 2010, working toward our goal of Zero Waste 
n Partner with key 
suppliers, customers and consumers to reduce energy, green-house gas emissions and waste
(1) 15% risk reduction will be measured considering a 2013 baseline, using the Global Health Risk Assessment tool, available to countries with 100 or more employees. 
(2) The performance results will be based on representative new products and product updates evaluated against comparable Colgate products, considering a 2015 
baseline, across seven impact areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data. Reducing  
Our Impact  
on Climate  
and the  
EnvironmentMaking 
Every Drop 
of Water  
CountBrands That 
Delight 
Consumers 
and Sustain 
Our WorldContributing  
to the 
Communities 
Where We Live 
and WorkHelping 
Colgate People 
and Their 
Families 
Live BetterBeginning the 2020 Journey
Colgate is beginning the journey to meet the commitments of our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy. Colgate 
people around the world are coming together to align behind the commitments and begin to make progress. Below are highlights of our progress for each of our Strategy commitments.
Helping Colgate 
People and Their Families Live BetterContinuously improve employee 
health and reduce health risks by 15%
Encourage healthier living for 
Colgate People and their families
Ensure a safe and healthy work 
environment with a goal of zero lost-time incidents
Provide education and tools 
to Colgate people to elevate financial awareness and planningColgate uses the Health Risk Assessment (HRA), a voluntary, confidential survey, to assess health risk status. The HRA contains questions on employee health habits and biometric data (e.g., blood pressure) and is adapted to local language and culture. To date, we have provided the HRA to employees in 34 countries; work is ongoing to expand participation to all countries with over 100 employees. We continue to target our Live Better programming to align with our top four opportunity areas: nutrition, stress, physical activity and body weight.
We are developing plans to provide Colgate people with increased 
access to healthy food, preventive oral care and immunizations that address top local health concerns. Our buildings are smoke-free and we are piloting smoke-free campuses in some locations.
This commitment respects our long-standing commitment to health 
and safety, and we continue to exhibit world class performance. We continue to sharpen our focus on opportunity areas such as risk–based safety programming, driver safety, electrical safety and truck and traffic safety. 
In the U.S., Colgate currently offers a comprehensive financial 
education suite to both our salaried and non–salaried personnel that includes classroom training, webinar programming and personal financial telephonic counseling sessions. We continue to increase financial education programming outside of the U.S. 
Contributing  
to the Communities Where We Live and WorkExpand Bright Smiles, Bright 
Futures program to reach 1.3 billion children
Invest in the improvement 
of health, education and environment for thousands of people in the communities around the globeEach year, we reach over 50 million children in more than 320,000 schools around the world. Over 35,000 dental professionals help Colgate reach an additional six million children through professional activities. Colgate has reached a total of 850 million children since 1991. We are proud that in 2016, Colgate now celebrates 25 years of the Bright Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) program. 
Contributions focus areas include arts and culture, community 
development, disaster response, education, social services, basic oral health, BSBF , health and hygiene, handwashing, access to clean water and environment and climate. In 2015, Colgate contributed $28.28 million. 
Our Goals HighlightsOur Goals Highlights2015 to 2020 Strategy
2015 to 2020 Strategy
Contributing  
to the Communities Where We Live and Work
Brands That  
Delight Consumers and Sustain Our WorldPartner with animal shelters to 
help over two million dogs and cats find a home
Reach 60 million people annually 
with handwashing education
Expand Colgate Cares Day 
globally to be a leader in volunteerism
Improve the sustainability profile 
in our new products and product updates
Commit $250 million to drive 
sustainability with breakthrough product and process innovation
Increase the recyclability of our 
packaging and increase recycled content to 50%The Hill’s Food, Shelter and Love program was created in 2002 to support homeless pets in U.S. shelters. Through this partnership, the Company provided pet food with a retail value of more than $3.2 million in 2015, which adds up to almost $285 million to nearly 1,000 shelters since the program’s inception in 2002. These donations have helped more than eight million dogs and cats find their forever homes.
Colgate is working with public health officials, academia and local 
schools and clinics to educate millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene benefits of handwashing with soap. Colgate’s global handwashing program provides educational materials and sample products to schools and communities and builds awareness through advertising and public relations campaigns. In 2015, Colgate reached 35 million people through advertising, media campaigns, community events and educational programs in schools.
We have completed our third annual Colgate Cares Day in 
four locations with 800 volunteers participating in 35 volunteer activities. Outside the U.S., there are many additional volunteer activities, such as BSBF , Operation Smile, Adopt a School and our Water For People partnership in Guatemala. 
We measure improvement in the sustainability profile of our 
products using a Product Sustainability Scorecard that evaluates new products and key platform changes against 25 sustainability parameters. The scorecard and outcomes are validated by a third party. In 2015, 85% of the products evaluated were determined to have an improved sustainability profile. 
Colgate continues to commit resources to drive sustainability 
innovation, including next generation preservative systems, improving the ingredient sustainability profile of our products and packaging improvements. A formal process is in place for Colgate teams around the world to research and ideate on Colgate’s Innovation Opportunity Spaces, including the area of water scarcity as well as the area of naturals and well-being.
Today approximately 37% of the materials in our packages are 
from recycled sources. In the near term, we are working to improve recyclability of our packages through development of perforated shrink sleeves and phasing out the use of PVC in our toothbrush packaging. Our Goals Highlights
Our Goals Highlights
Brands That  
Delight Consumers and Sustain Our WorldHave a positive impact by 
expanding access to affordable health and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities
Use the power of our brands 
to build awareness and drive engagement in product sustainabilityColgate makes products more affordable, while maintaining quality, with smaller sizes, refill packages and value options. We work for strong penetration and wide distribution so that more consumers have access to Colgate products. We are also finding ways to offer the benefits of more premium products at affordable price points, to provide products that yield more product per use and to help consumers to dose properly to eliminate waste. For example, in 2015, Colgate launched a toothbrush with the premium benefit of a tapered bristle at an affordable price point in Vietnam, Taiwan and China. 
We are strengthening the linkage between sustainability and 
brand value. Several of our sustainability programs such as our Save Water messaging, BSBF and handwashing programs build awareness and drive engagement.2015 to 2020 Strategy
Making Every 
Drop of Water CountReduce our manufacturing water 
intensity by half compared to 2002
Replenish water withdrawn in 
highly stressed regions
Increase supplier participation in 
our water stewardship program
Partner with local and global 
organizations to bring clean water to underserved areas of the world
Promote water conservation 
awareness to all our global consumersWe have a long-standing commitment to reduce Colgate’s water intensity and have a robust program across our operations. So far, we have already reduced our manufacturing water intensity by over 48% compared to 2002.
We have completed water risk mapping to identify operations 
located in areas of high water stress. In 2015, Colgate hosted a student project in the MIT Sloan School of Management’s Action Learning Sustainability Lab to identify factors that should be considered as we work to meet our commitment to replenish water in highly stressed regions.
We are working to increase supplier engagement in our water 
stewardship program in two ways: 
1) participating in the CDP Supply Chain Program; and2) identifying and engaging suppliers on our most water intensive
raw and packaging materials.
Colgate’s contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever 
program helped them to reach nearly 100,000 people in 2015 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education in Guatemala, Peru and India. Colgate also sponsors 25 PlayPumps in South Africa, which help villages obtain clean water from wells.
Colgate continues campaigns to increase consumer awareness 
through Save Water messaging on our packaging, online and in stores. In 2016, Colgate aired our award-winning Save Water video message during football’s Big Game. This campaign alone has reached over 2.7 billion people through earned and social media and views of the television and online video. Colgate expanded the Save Water campaign globally with messaging around World Water Day on March 22, 2016. Our video and message to Make Every Drop of Water Count was live in more than 60 countries around the world.Our Goals HighlightsOur Goals Highlights
Our Goals Highlights
Reducing Our 
Impact on Climate and the EnvironmentResponsibly source palm oil 
and other forest commodities to reach zero net deforestation
Promote use of renewable 
energy and reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from manufacturing by 25% compared to 2002
Reduce our manufacturing 
energy intensity by one-third compared to 2002
Halve our manufacturing 
waste sent to landfill per ton of product compared to 2010, working toward our goal of Zero Waste
Partner with key suppliers, 
customers and consumers to reduce energy, greenhouse gas emissions and wasteColgate is partnering with our suppliers, The Forest Trust, RSPO and the CGF Palm Oil Working Group to meet our commitments. All palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives are now from certified sources or covered by GreenPalm certificates. We have contributed nearly $8 million to support sustainable palm oil production since 2013, and currently 77% of palm oil and palm kernel oil purchases are of physical certified sustainable oils with the balance covered by GreenPalm certificates. 
An absolute greenhouse gas reduction goal has moved us into 
areas beyond energy conservation, including installation of electric car chargers in select locations, purchasing of Renewable Energy Credits and evaluation of new technologies such as fuel cells. Colgate was ranked #77 on U.S. EPA’s Green Power Partner List in 2015. So far, we have reduced our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 18.7% compared to 2002.
We continue to reduce our footprint and drive savings via 
factory energy reduction initiatives, including our EOHS Energy Management Standard, 5% for the Planet investment, Colgate Global Energy Reduction Team, Energy Treasure Hunt Program and Top 10 Energy Actions. Since 2002, we have achieved a 29.7% energy intensity reduction and avoided nearly $500 million in energy expenditures.
Colgate has reduced the amount of waste per ton of production 
sent to landfills by over 40% since 2010. Our Zero Waste program continues to mature, with Trash to Treasure waste-sorting events and a recognition program for sites that are leading or have achieved Zero Waste to Landfill. Three of our sites have achieved Zero Waste to Landfill status with nine sites achieving Waste to Landfill Performance Leader recognition. 
We continue to reduce our footprint and drive savings through 
efficient and sustainable logistics. More recently, we have estimated the carbon footprint of the materials used in our products in both our Personal and Home Care categories, in addition to the work recently completed in our Oral Care category.2015 to 2020 Strategy
Colgate is embedding sustainability in each of our product categories, from the raw materials we purchase, to our 
own operations, to the end-of-life of our packaging. With a focus on responsible sourcing, ingredient sustainability, reducing our operational footprint, educating consumers and improving our packaging, we are improving the sustainability profile of our Oral Care, Personal Care, Home Care and Pet Nutrition offerings. We are engaging with suppliers, retailers, consumers and the community to bring our Sustainability Strategy to life in each category.
Personal Care 20%
of Global Net Sales
Home Care 19%
of Global Net SalesPet Nutrition 14%
of Global Net SalesOral Care  47%
of Global Net Sales*
*Minions image licensed from Universal Studios Licensing LLC. All Rights Reserved.Driving Sustainability Through Our Product CategoriesOral Care
Colgate is embedding sustainability across our Oral Care category. With our products and our oral health education 
programs, we are improving oral health around the world and helping to reduce cavities, one of the most chronic global diseases. We are also promoting water conservation awareness to consumers, encouraging them to turn off the faucet when brushing their teeth. In our own operations, we ar e improving the ingredient sustainability profile of 
our products, removing PVC from toothbrush packaging and reducing the environmental footprint of our Oral Care factories.
Supply of Raw and Packaging Materials
n Reducing the carbon footprint of Oral Care ingredients
n Sustainable palm oil and derivatives
n Using recycled content and FSC-certified paper 
 board in our cartons(1)
n Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessments
Product Development and Design
n Improving ingredient sustainability profile
n No use of microbeads
n Product Sustainability Scorecard
n Partnering to develop alternatives to animal 
safety testing
n Improving product-to-package ratio
(1) Approximately 37% of Colgate’s packaging materials by weight 
globally come from recycled sources. Over 90% of our pulp and 
paper is certified or is in the process of being certified as being sourced from responsibly managed forests.Driving Sustainability Through Our Product CategoriesConsumers and the Community
n Oral health education through Bright Smiles, 
Bright Futures
n Encouraging proper toothbrushing and use of 
toothpaste in remote areas 
n Promoting water conservation awareness 
n Improving affordability and access to oral care  
products 
n Toothbrush and toothpaste donations in times 
of need
n Ingredient transparency 
Product End-of-Life
n Approximately 65% of tooth-
paste cartons are recyclable 
n Commitment to breakthrough 
innovation in oral care 
packaging recyclability 
n Removing PVC from tooth-
brush packaging 
n Partnering to build recycling 
infrastructure 
n Partnering with Terracycle®Reducing Our Operational Footprint
n Climate change commitment
n 88% of Oral Care manufacturing plants  
have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY ST
AR 
Challenge for Industry recognition 
n Water Stewardship 
n Working Towards Zero Waste. Three 
Oral Care plants are Waste to Landfill Performance Leaders 
n Five LEED-NC Oral Care manufacturing  
 plants 
n World-class safety performance 
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product CategoriesPersonal Care
Colgate is making improvements in our Personal Care category, from improving ingredient biodegradability and 
moving towards more sustainable preservative systems, to optimizing packaging size and improving packaging recyclability. We are educating millions of children and their families around the world about the importance of handwashing with soap. We are also working to reduce our carbon and water footprint, both in our supply chain and our own operations. 
Supply of Raw and Packaging Materials
n Reducing the carbon footprint of Personal Care
 ingr
edients 
n Responsible sourcing of palm oil and beef tallow
n Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessments 
n Engaging suppliers on green chemistry
Product Development and Design
n Improving ingredient biodegradability
n Developing sustainable preservative  
 systems
n Eliminated use of phthalates
n Eliminated use of microbeads 
n Eliminated use of parabens 
n Eliminating use of formaldehyde donors in a 
limited number of remaining Personal Care 
products
n Product Sustainability Scorecard
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product CategoriesConsumers and the Community
n Handwashing education through Palmolive 
and Protex brands
n Promoting water conservation awareness
n Partnering to promote WASH support: water 
 access, sanitation and hygiene 
n Ingredient transparency 
n Innovating to help consumers use less water
Product End-of-Life
n Optimizing packaging volume and 
weight
n Partnering to build recycling 
infrastructure 
n Tom’s of Maine leading innovation with recyclable deodorant packagingReducing Our Operational Footprint
n Climate change commitment
n 82% of Personal Care manufacturing plants have achieved U.S. EP
A ENERGY 
STAR Challenge for Industry recognition 
n Water Stewardship 
n Working Towards Zero Waste. Two Personal Car
e plants are Waste to 
Landfill Performance Leaders 
n World-class safety performance
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product CategoriesHome Care
In our Home Care category, Colgate is increasing the use of recycled and recyclable plastics in our packaging 
and improving the ingredient sustainability profile of our products, including eliminating formaldehyde donors and reducing Volatile Organic Compounds. We are also helping consumers to save energy and water with our cleaning products.
Supply of Raw and Packaging Materials
n Reducing the carbon footprint of Home Care  
 ingr
edients 
n Increasing use of recycled plastics
n Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessments 
n Engaging suppliers on green chemistry
Product Development and Design
n Improving ingredient biodegradability
n Developing sustainable preservative systems
n Eliminating use of formaldehyde donors in a limited 
number of remaining Home Care products
n Reducing Volatile Or ganic Compounds
n Product Sustainability Scorecard
n Concentrated product offerings
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product CategoriesConsumers and the Community
n Saving consumers time and energy with fast  
dry technology and cold water wash formulas 
n Helping consumers save water with no rinse 
fabric softener and easy rinse cleaners
n Ingredient transparency
n Providing cleaning products during health epidemics
Product End-of-Life
n Increasing use of recyclable plastic bottles and exploring options for recyclable and removable bottle sleeves
n Expanding refill package options
n Optimizing packaging 
 volume and weight
n Partnering to build recycling infrastructure Reducing Our Operational Footprint
n Climate change commitment
n 71% of Home Care manufacturing   
plants have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY 
 STAR Challenge for Industry r
ecognition 
n Water Stewardship 
n Working Towards Zero Waste. Two   
Home Care plants ar
e Waste to Landfill 
Performance Leaders
n World-class safety performance 
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product CategoriesPet Nutrition
Hill’s Pet Nutrition is working to responsibly source its ingredients, reduce its operational footprint and provide pet 
food to shelters at a discount to help millions of dogs and cats find their for ever homes. Hill’s is also leading the 
way in Working Towards Zero Waste at Colgate. The first three Zero Waste to Landfill factories are Hill’s factories. 
Supply of Raw and Packaging Materials
n Supplier energy efficiency initiatives
n Responsible sourcing of soy
n Responsible sourcing of seafood
n Supplier Responsible Sourcing 
Assessments 
Product Development and Design
n Dedication to providing high-quality 
ingredients with the pr
oper balance of 
essential nutrients
n More than 180 veterinarians, PhD 
nutritionists and food scientists creating  
new products and impr
oving existing ones
n Product Sustainability Scorecard
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product CategoriesConsumers and the Community
n Food, Shelter, Love: almost $285 million provided 
 to animal shelters since 2002, helping more than 
 eight million dogs and cats find their forever homes
n Hill’s Disaster Relief Network, a first of it’s kind 
formalized U.S. emergency network for pets
n Online Pet Care Resource Center
n Community volunteering
Product End-of-Life
n Optimizing primary and secondary 
packaging
n Increasing recycled content of  corrugate materials
n Engaging with packaging suppliers to improve logistics efficiencies
n Encouraging consumers to recycle its wet food cans with on-package labelsReducing Our Operational Footprint
n First three Zero Waste to Landfill 
factories in Colgate world 
n Climate change commitment
n Water Stewardship 
n World-class safety performance 
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product CategoriesPeople
55%
of Colgate  
employees invited to use  
employee Health  
Risk Assessment Tool 
since 2013
23
Million
minutes of healthy activity  
logged by Colgate employees  
in June 2015 as part  
of Colgate’s Live Better 
program
8
Million
pet adoptions supported  
by Hill’s Pet Nutrition  
since 2002
35
Million
people reached in 2015   
about the health and hygiene 
benefits of handwashing 
with soap
850
Million
children reached in 80 countries 
by Colgate’s Bright Smiles, 
Bright Futures oral 
health education program 
since 1991
37 ,900 
Employees 
around the world
2015
AT
 A 
GLANCEFor over 200 years, Colgate has been 
committed to People. From the nearly 38,000 
employees around the world who run our business to the billions of consumers who use our products, people are at the heart of what we do and how we do it. 
PeoplePeople
Supporting Colgate People
Thousands of people around the world work together to make Colgate successful. 
In turn, the Company is committed to the success of our people throughout their ca-reers. Through training and career development programs, Colgate helps employees stay engaged, rewarded and focused on delivering products and services that meet or exceed our consumers’ expectations. To support the development of our people and ensure job satisfaction, we proudly offer global career opportunities, access to world-class training and education programs and continuous coaching and feedback.
Striving to Be an Employer of Choice 
We are committed to attracting, developing and retaining talented and dedicated people by:
nMaintaining a culture based on our cor e values of Caring, Global Teamwork 
and Continuous Improvement
nCommitting to our sustainability strategy focused on People, Performance 
and Planet
nProviding stimulating careers with training, education and growth opportunities
nCreating an exciting and motivating work environment
nEnsuring that people feel recognized and r ewarded
nPromoting fundamental values and ongoing communication
nProviding cornerstone training programs: Valuing Colgate People, Ethics and  Compliance and Leading with Respect
nRecruiting and retaining people of all backgr ounds in our global workforce
nPromoting healthier lives for our employees
nEncouraging a healthy balance between work and personal responsibilities
2015 Awards  
Highlights 
 In 2015, Forbes  
named Colgate one  
of the World’s Most  
Reputable Companies, 
Most Innovative  
Companies and the  
No. 1 Best Company for 
Work/Life Balance
n
Business Insider  
50 Best Companies to 
Work for in America 
n
World’s Most  
Ethical Companies by 
Ethisphere Magazine
n 
Corporate Responsibility 
Magazine’s 100 Best  
Corporate Citizens
Professional Development
Colgate is committed to helping every Colgate person 
reach his or her maximum potential. We have a strong, global leadership development foundation to build upon and are expanding the reach of our current programs to meet the evolving leadership challenges that we face. We keep pace with the rate of change in the market-place and provide a sustainable competitive advantage for Colgate through the development and maintenance of a robust, industry leading talent pipeline of future Colgate leaders. 
 We ar
e continuously building a learning and 
development culture that drives employee engagement and supports delivery of our commitments to one another, the professions we serve, our consumers, our customers and our shareholders. Colgate’s training programs provide opportunities for Colgate people to keep current in their assignments and to gain valuable new skills. In 2015, Colgate people completed over 356,000 total hours of training in our global curriculum as well as additional hours of locally required safety, environmental and other regulatory training.
Developing Leaders
We believe that Colgate people at all levels and func-tions need to have a clear understanding of what it takes to demonstrate Personal Leadership. Personal Leader-ship is about who one is as an individual, what one con-tributes to the Company’s results and how one achieves those results and treats others. It is about being the best Colgate person one can be. Demonstrating Colgate’s Leadership Essentials is an important aspect of Personal Leadership. Colgate’s Leadership Essentials are:
nInspiring Leadership in Everyone
nActing Courageously
nProviding a Strategic Perspective
nBuilding a Collaborative Environment
nDelivering Outstanding Results
Key leadership courses at Colgate include Valuing Colgate People, Coaching Essentials, Fundamentals of Colgate Leadership and Driving T
eam Effectiveness in 
the Organization. Several programs additionally provide opportunities for exceptional Colgate talent to approach new and exciting challenges and hone their skills.nGlobal Leadership 2030 is a 12-month innovative executive education and development experience conducted by a consortium of the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College and a select number of global companies. The goal is to build global com-petitiveness within industries and or
ganizations and 
to develop personal leadership skills among program participants.
nDeveloped in partnership with the Stanford Graduate School of Business, the Colgate Leadership Pr
ogram 
@ Stanford combines leading academic thinking and practical advice with learnings from Colgate’s 2014 General Managers Forum, which was held in partner-ship with Stanford and conveyed practical lessons to sharpen leadership capabilities and strengthen networks and partnerships.
nThe Colgate Leadership Challenge for early-in-career talented employees pr
ovides participants with 
exposure and interaction with senior management, a greater understanding and connection to the global organization, personal leadership skills training and an opportunity to work on an important strategic issue for the Company.
Training Highlights
n We are committed to providing marketers with the tools necessary to build digital marketing capabil-ities in a rapidly-evolving marketplace. As part of this commitment, we ar
e implementing Essentials of 
Digital Marketing in 2016, an online digital training that provides custom-learning paths based on level of proficiency. The platform has a fresh, engaging in-terface with interactive lessons developed by indus-try-leading practitioners. The training spans a variety of topics related to digital marketing and lessons evolve to keep pace with industry trends.
n For our Customer Development Organization that engages with our r
etail partners, Core Selling Skills 
is a two-and-a-half-day program that explains the Colgate Cor
e Selling Process and teaches 
the strategic selling skills required to determine the needs and priorities of each and every unique customer, regardless of retail environment, in order 
to execute a successful sales call.
PeoplePeoplenColgate’s Global Supply Chain Organization has 
leveraged Accentur
e Academy for nearly a decade to 
provide foundational functional learning content. The Accenture Academy contains over 1,200 courses, aligned across business, and specialty and function-al skills, developed by leading academic and industry experts. 
nColgate has a global license for SCM World, making SCM W
orld’s content and knowledge base available 
to all Colgate people. Starting in 2016, Colgate has also engaged SCM World to facilitate two new leadership development programs that will combine formal and experiential learning based on the latest strategic thinking, trends, technology developments and best practices. The C Level program is targeted to current senior supply chain leaders while the Supply Chain Core Talent Development Program is aimed at next level leaders. These programs will help us develop a vision for The Future of Work in Colgate’s Supply Chain.
 In addition to training and leadership development 
programs, Colgate has a structur
ed Individual Devel-
opment Planning (IDP) process for Colgate people to reflect upon their own career aspirations. In most cases, Colgate people participate in this process annually to create a plan between the employee and the manager for development actions based upon their strengths, opportunities for improvement and goals. The IDP pro-cess helps facilitate a two-way discussion on long-term career development opportunities as well. Colgate also has a company-wide succession planning process that focuses on identifying key organizational talent needs and provides management with an opportunity to dis-cuss and plan employee development and career pro-gression. During this process, short-term assignment, long-term assignment and special project opportunities are identified that allow our talent to broaden their lead-ership and functional competencies.
Colgate Leadership Challenge
Participants in the Colgate Leadership Challenge have an opportunity to work on an important strategic issue for the 
Company, such as sustainability.Health and Wellness 
Supporting Colgate people includes an important commitment to supporting the 
health and wellness of our employees around the world. Through our Live Better programs, we promote physical, emotional and financial wellness for Colgate people and their families. Our goal is to help our people Live Better every day by providing the resources to help them make healthy choices at work and at home and by providing the support they need to live a more balanced, healthy life. Colgate’s Live Better programs focus on the areas of prevention and awareness, healthy lifestyles, resilience and stress and organizational support.
 Our Live Better focus areas ar
e grounded in our 2020 Sustainability Strategy 
commitments to continuously improve employee health and reduce health risks by 15 percent; to encourage healthier living for Colgate people and their families; to ensure a safe and healthy work environment with a goal of zero lost-time incidents; and to provide education and tools to Colgate people to elevate financial awareness and planning. Building on the groundwork laid in our 2015 Sustainability Strategy, our 2020 goals will help us to reach more Colgate people with support for the health and wellness issues that matter the most. We are engaging our sites around the world in the following activities: 
Colgate’s Live Better Focus Areas 
Organizational 
Support
Employee Engagement
Safety Culture
Leadership Engagement
Community PartnershipsResilience  
and Stress 
Employee Assistance Programs
Financial Wellness
Resiliency Programs
Work/Life ServicesHealthy 
Lifestyles 
Physical Activity
Nutrition Education
Weight Management
Healthy Cafeteria Options
Smoking CessationPrevention and 
Awareness 
Health Risk Assessments 
Immunizations
HIV/AIDS Policy
Health Screenings
Preventive Oral Care 
PeoplePeopleColgate has offered over 55 percent of our employees across 34 countries access to a Health Risk Assessment tool since 
2013, with a goal to reach all countries with 100 or more employees by 2020.Prevention and Awareness
Since 2013, Colgate has offered over 55 percent of our employees access to a Health 
Risk Assessment (HRA) tool to help them self-evaluate health status, understand risks and provide confidential feedback to motivate behavior change. The assessment is a powerful, online tool that includes questions on biometric measures such as blood pressure and cholesterol. Colgate also aggregates this data anonymously to focus our Live Better programs on the highest risk factors for Colgate people such as nutrition, physical activity, stress and body weight. According to the World Health Organization, physical inactivity and unhealthy diets are risk factors for cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer. We continue to expand the program with a goal to reach all countries with 100 or more employees by 2020. In 2015, we expanded access to 15 new countries. We are also working to increase participation rates in the countries that currently offer the program.
 We ar
e also making plans to ensure that all Colgate people are able to obtain the 
immunizations they need in order to stay healthy. Additionally, we are developing an approach to address any gaps in dental care access globally and ensure continued oral health awareness for our people.
Helping Colgate People Assess Health RisksHealth Risk 
Assessments
When anonymously 
aggregating HRA data, we found that the highest risk factors for Colgate people are: 
4 Nutrition 
4 Physical Activity 4 Stress4 Body Weight
Healthy Lifestyles
Colgate has many programs around the world to sup-
port healthy lifestyles. Programs vary by geography but include those to support physical activity, nutrition education, weight management and smoking cessation as well as to provide healthy cafeteria options. 
A key Live Better program is the annual Healthy 
Activity Challenge, which encourages employees to track and log at least 500 minutes of healthy activity in one month, in line with medical experts’ r
ecommendations for minimum physical activity to 
sustain good health.  During the month, we sponsor activities from yoga 
classes to ping pong tour naments for Colgate people. 
Many locations hold health and wellness events to edu-cate and motivate employees on the topics of nutrition, weight loss and a healthy body and mind. In 2015, over 21,000 employees reached their goal, and Colgate people logged over 23 million minutes. Colgate’s Asia region had the highest participation rate in 2015 at 82 percent. Our Latin America region had the highest rate of employees reach their 500 minute goal at 70 percent. Over the past five years, Colgate people have accumulated over 73 million minutes of healthy activity. 
Employees Who Reached 500 Minutes Goal Total Minutes
2011 15,800 9,100,000
2012 14,300 9,400,000
2013 20,100 12,900,000
2014 19,700 18,700,000
2015 xx,xxx xx,xxx,xxx
Employees Who Reached 500 Minutes Goal Total Minutes
2011 15,800 9,100,000
2012 14,300 9,400,000
2013 20,100 12,900,000
2014 19,700 18,700,000
2015 21,000 23,000,000
Employees Who Reached 500 Minutes Goal Total Minutes
2011 15,800 9,100,000
2012 14,300 9,400,000
2013 20,100 12,900,000
2014 19,700 18,700,000
2015 21,000 23,000,000
VietnamHealthy Activity Challenge Participation
PeoplePeople
Colgate locations often include nutrition education and resources in their Live Better 
programs and as part of the Healthy Activity Challenge, with events such as healthy cooking demonstrations, nutrition workshops, educational information, labeling of healthy options and serving of healthy breakfasts and lunches. A Nutrition Toolkit is also available to Colgate people on the Company’s intranet site. Moving forward, we will also work with our global facilities service providers for Colgate cafeterias to ensure healthy options are provided and communicated to employees.
 A more recent area of focus for Live Better at Colgate is smoking cessation. 
Colgate prohibits smoking within all Company buildings, including all manufactur-ing facilities, warehouses, technology centers and office buildings. A next step is to expand programs to help our employees quit smoking. Currently, nine Colgate sites offer smoking cessation support. A recent program in Brazil has been particularly successful. With anti-smoking campaigns, medical education, counseling options and partially subsidized smoking cessation medication, the smoking population of the São Paolo site went from 15 percent in 2010 to 5 percent in 2015.
Resilience and Stress
Colgate works to provide opportunities for employees to obtain a balance between work and life. Programs vary by geography but include flexible work arrangements, adoption benefits, tuition benefits and back-up child care options. Live Better events include seminars on resilience and stress management.
 Colgate is also committed to ensuring the financial well-being of our employees. 
We ar
e rolling out financial education materials and planning tools in 20 select subsid -
iaries. In the U.S., Colgate people have access to financial planning workshops, web resources and personal financial planning support from Ernst & Young, LLP at no cost.Smoking Cessation 
in Brazil
Through campaigns and 
resources in São Paolo, 
Brazil, Colgate helped 
reduce the number of  
employees who smoke 
from 15% in 2010  
to 5% in 2015.
In 2015, Forbes  
named Colgate the 
No.1 Best Company for 
Work–Life Balance.
Start your day with a fresh piece of fruit!
Colgate is working to encourage healthy food choices and make more healthy options available.
Occupational Health and Safety
The health and safety of our employees and the communities in which we operate is paramount in all we do; our 
goal is zero incidents. Colgate people around the world are committed to being “Colgate Careful” by maintaining a robust safety culture and healthy and safe working conditions.
Colgate’s global occupational health and safety pro-
gram is grounded in our Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) standards. While we do not participate in the OHSAS 18001 certification system, our management system and technical standards ex-pectations are well-aligned with that system.
 Colgate sites are expected to self-assess confor
-
mance with our standards at eighteen-month intervals. Corporate audits are conducted every three to five years, a closure progress is reported quarterly and verification audits are conducted to provide closure as-surance. Third-party industrial hygiene firms also review our operations annually to ensure occupational health exposures are well controlled. Any identified exposures are managed using the hierarchy of controls and clo-sure progress is reported quarterly. Closure of previ-ously identified exposures is verified by the third-party industrial hygiene provider.
 Colgate also provides numer
ous safety training pro-
grams as an important part of our safety management strategy. We offer 150 e-learning courses available in as many as eight languages. Courses cover a range of topics such as EOHS incident management, hearing conservation, ergonomics in the workplace, confined space entry, fire safety emergency, safe work practices and industrial hygiene. We also conduct evacuation drills across our sites ensuring we are prepared in the event of unforeseen circumstances.Focus Areas of Colgate’s Occupational Health and Safety Standards
ChemicalsOccupational Health
Safety
Injury and Illness 
ManagementNoise/Physical 
Hazards
Equipment and 
Operational 
HazardsHierarchy of 
Controls/Hazard 
Communication
Materials 
Handling and 
StorageErgonomics
Temporary Labor, 
Contractors,  
and FacilitiesLaboratories
Process SafetyOccupational 
Medical 
Standards
Fire and Loss 
Prevention
PeoplePeopleGlobal Safety Statisticsper 200,000 work hours
00.51.01.52.02.5
Total Recordable Rate               Lost Workday Case Rate   
2013 2012 2014 2015 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998per 200,000 work hours
00.51.01.52.02.5
Total Recordable Rate              Lost Workday Case Rate   
2013 2012 2014 2015 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998
In 2015, our safety results were not statistically different from prior years. However, there were two on-site fatalities 
of non-Colgate employees. The first was a supplier employee fatality that occurr ed during the course of unloading 
a tractor trailer at a factory. The second incident was a contractor fatality, which occurred during the course of pipe fitting at a plant construction site. In the spirit of continuous impr ovement, each incident has been reviewed, and we 
are creating action plans to strengthen hazard mitigation strategies. 
2015 Safety HighlightsPresident’s Safety 
Awards
The President’s  
Safety Award Program 
recognizes Colgate sites 
as they achieve specific 
milestones of time in 
years and/or hours 
without a Lost Workday 
Injury or Illness. In 
2015, 68% of our 
manufacturing facilities 
received one or 
more awards.
nElectrical Safety
As part of our safety risk management plan, Electri-cal Safety has been identified as one of our highest risks to life safety
. To address this risk, Colgate con-
tracted with Jacobs Engineering to assess the safety of our power distribution systems at our operations worldwide. Assessed sites have developed action plans to manage risk and are taking immediate corrective action to address highest risk exposures. We are also incorporating the learnings from these assessments into the update of our global Electrical Safe Practices Standard.
nWorkplace Violence
Recognizing the recent tragedies in workplaces, schools and public locations in the U.S., we have developed a W
orkplace Violence Prevention Policy 
to ensure we maintain a safe and r
espectful work environment with appr
opriate resources and 
procedures in place to effectively respond to and mitigate any potential incidents. A training program was also developed to help Colgate people identify, report and respond to workplace violence should it occur. In 2016, all U.S.
-based employees ar
e 
required to participate in this training. 
nOccupational Health
We continue Colgate’s long-standing commitment to r
educe occupational health exposure to chemi-
cals, noise, physical hazards, dust and ergonomics risk in the manufacturing process. We partner with third-party industrial hygienists to assess our expo-sure levels and follow the hierarchy of controls to reduce exposure. Each year, we are reducing the number of Colgate people who are required to wear respiratory and hearing protection. nOccupational Medicine
In 2016, Colgate partnered with “Inter national SOS” to launch a Standard for Health Incident Plans 
at our sites, which includes guidance on incident/illness management, pandemic preparedness and 
employee and community communications. The guidance identifies actions for our sites to ensur e 
the safe and effective management and communication of the occurr ence of 13 diseases in the 
workplace and community, including Cholera, Hepatitis, Influenza (seasonal), Legionella, Measles, Meningitis, MRSA, Mumps, Norovirus/Pertussis, SARS, Tuberculosis, Varicella, Ebola and Pandemic Influenza. For each disease, we have developed a detailed protocol for management of an incident or illness, reference and background materials, communication materials and cleaning guidelines.nRisk-Based Management
We have continued to sharpen our focus on risk-based safety with a goal to eliminate fatalities and serious incidents. This appr
oach involves an assessment of the severity of an event 
as well as the degree of control over the outcome. Beginning in 2015, an annual risk assessment is now required for all sites as part of Colgate’s Management System Standard.
nYard Safety
Recognizing the Life Safety risk associated with movement of trucks, cars and people in factory and warehouse yar
ds, 
Colgate has formalized our expectations via a new Yard Safety Standard that includes expectations for pedestrian walkways, appropriate lighting, clear traffic paths and safe procedures for loading and unloading. A training module has also been launched to support implementation.
nErgonomics
In 2015, Colgate rolled out a new global pr
ogram to reduce ergonomics 
risk. Manufacturing sites and technology centers are expected to achieve 100% completion of the Ergo Top 5 actions over a two-year period:
1)Complete ergonomic risk assessments of job tasks
2)Reduce or eliminate ergonomic hazards associated
with manual bag dumping stations
3)Reduce or eliminate ergonomic hazards associated
with manual palletizing
4)Implement appropriate control strategies for high-risk
ergonomic tasks
5)Complete annual ergonomics training
W
e are making progress. As we closed 2015, our 
completion rate was 56 percent.
PeoplePeople
Protect Yourself 
Against a Fall WhenWorking at Heights
Obtain a Permit BeforeEntering a Confined Space
Obtain a Permit BeforePerforming Hot Work
Obtain a Permit BeforeBreaking a Line
Verify Equipment Is De-ener gized
or Isolated Befor
e Beginning Work 
Lock It OutUse Proper Personal Protective EquipmentBuckle Up for SafetyMachine GuardsShould Not Be Disabledor Bypassed
No DistractionsWhile Driving orOperating Machinery
No SmokingNo Horseplay or Fighting
No Drugs or AlcoholNo UnauthorizedDischarges to the Environment“Cathy Colgate,” our global safety champion helps communicate our Minimum Safe Behaviors and other safety 
programs to Colgate people. 
BE COLGATE CAREFUL
CATHY COLGATE SAYS
BE COLGATE CAREFULMINIMUM SAFE BEHAVIORS
XObtain a Permit Before
Working at Elevated Heights
Obtain a Permit BeforeEntering a Confined Space
Obtain a Permit BeforePerforming Hot Work
Obtain a Permit BeforeBreaking a Line
Verify Equipment Is De-energized 
or Isolated Before Beginning Work; “Lock It Out”Use Proper 
Personal Protective EquipmentBuckle Up for SafetyNo Disabling 
or BypassingMachine Guards
No Distractions
While Driving orOperating Machinery
No SmokingNo Horseplay or Fighting
No Drugs and AlcoholNo Unauthorized
Discharges to the EnvironmentnColgate’s Bangpakong, Thailand plant opened their 
Safety W
eek activities with a celebration of three 
million hours without a lost workday and a traditional Thai dancing show to commemorate the achievement. Employees also played a game to test their electrical safety knowledge and attended an electrical and yard safety exhibition. 
nColgate’s plant in Guatemala opened their week with a pr
esentation about the importance of electrical safety from 
a local Olympian who had been injured in an electrical accident. In another engaging presentation, a local scientist demonstrated how electricity works, how to use it safely and why it can be dangerous. Colgate people around the world were able to share in the safety message—a video about Colgate Guatemala’s safety activities was awarded the Most Popular Video award for 2015 among all videos on the Company’s internal intranet website.nThe Hill’s Pet Nutrition plant in Emporia, Kansas, kicked off Safety W
eek with a celebration of six years 
without a lost-time accident. In addition to work-shops on Colgate’s Minimum Safe Behaviors, yard safety and forklift safety, a Spot the Hazard contest tested employee knowledge of hazards.
nIn Argentina, the San Luis plant practiced proper fire extinguishing and r
eviewed electrical safety, yard 
safety and industrial hygiene.Each March, Colgate holds a Company-wide Safety Week, sharing best practices and refreshing our focus on health and safety. This week remains a cornerstone of our safety culture and provides an opportunity to focus on fundamentals. Several Safety Week events also include Colgate families in fun and educational activities. Colgate’s 2015 Safety Week themes were electrical safety, yard safety and risk-based safety management, which are import-ant for Colgate people at all of our facilities. March 2016 Safety Week themes were fork truck safety, working at elevated sites and lockout/tagout.
2015 Safety Week Highlights 
nIn Aurangabad, India, employees opened Safety Week with a pledge to work safely
, took a safety quiz 
and completed training on Colgate’s Minimum Safe Behaviors and electrical safety.
nIn addition to training, quizzes and activities, the  Swidnica, Poland factory held an electrical safety poster contest for childr
en of employees. In Halinow, 
Poland, employees also attended a first aid work-shop. 
PeoplePeople
In Brazil, Colgate partners with CENAIDS (National Business Council on HIV/AIDS) and 
participates in ongoing discussions with a group of companies and businesses to develop or update strategies and HIV/AIDS campaigns. For example, together Colgate, CENAIDS, local media groups and celebrities held an awareness campaign for both employees and the community with the theme of “AIDS—Lack of Information Has a Cure.” At Colgate, this included presentations, posters and training sessions. Colgate also provides also provides educational programs for Colgate people throughout the year during holidays such as Carnival, International Women’s Day, Mother’s Day, Father’s Day, Valentine’s Day and World AIDS Day.Colgate’s  
HIV/AIDS Policy 
Statement 
Helps limit the impact 
of HIV/AIDS in the 
workplace and personal 
lives of Colgate people 
and their families
n
Helps create an 
environment that is 
conducive to openness, 
disclosure and 
acceptance among 
all employees
n 
Ensures 
non-discrimination
n
Identifies and protects 
individual rights 
and outlines the 
responsibilities of 
Colgate people related 
to HIV/AIDS
n
Promotes access 
to treatment
n
Details awareness  
and preventive training 
programs to reduce 
the possibility of 
contracting HIV/AIDS 
HIV/AIDS Commitment
Colgate recognizes the continuing seriousness of the global HIV/AIDS epidemic and 
its impact on the workplace and society. Colgate’s global HIV/AIDS strategy and policy focus on non-discrimination and confidentiality, prevention, access to treatment, partnerships with third parties and proactive organizational support. Colgate holds World AIDS Day programs around the world each December and provides ongoing opportunities for confidential testing and awareness education—especially in Colgate regions with high incidence rates of HIV/AIDS.
 Through our pr
ograms around the world, we are working to limit the impact of 
HIV/AIDS and maintaining an environment at Colgate that is conducive to openness and acceptance. For example, Colgate’s Latin America Division conducts internal HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns in each of the Division’s subsidiaries. In Central America, Colgate educates employees and their families through training and awareness campaigns. In South Africa, Colgate holds an AIDS Week in early December with events such as a candle-lighting commemoration, a family day with employees and their families and free confidential testing. Colgate Headquarters in New York City recognizes World AIDS Day by displaying a section of the AIDS Memorial Quilt and by inviting a guest speaker.
 Some programs involve the community
. Under the Positive Step program in India, 
together with employees, Colgate supports a group of children living with HIV/AIDS by providing special nutrition and sponsoring their school fees. Children who have gone through the program show improvement in their overall well-being, morale and academic performance.
Caring In BrazilnAsian Action Network
nBlack Action Committee
nColgate Women’ s Network
nColgate LGBT and Allies
nColgate Parents NetworknHill’s Diversity Council
nHill’s Women Empowerment Network
nHispanic Action Network 
nNew Employee Organization
nColgate Abilities NetworkDiversity at Colgate
37 %
women in  
global workfor
ce 
35 %
women in 
 management positions  
(global)
39%
women in 
management positions  
(U.S.)
32%
minorities in U.S.  
workforce
34%
of all  
U.S. managers  
are minorities
27%
women on  
Board of Directors
27%
minorities on  
Board of Directors 2015 Working  
Mother 100 Best  
Companies
DiversityInc 
Top 50 Companies 
for Diversity 2015Colgate’s objective is to foster an inclusive workplace that reflects the diversity 
of the global marketplace. Such an environment provides all Colgate people with the opportunity to make unique contributions to our business success. Colgate is committed to providing employment, training, compensation, promotional opportunities and all other terms and conditions of employment without regard to race, color, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status or any other basis protected by law. Colgate’s Diversity and Inclusion Strategy consists of six key components:
nObjective Setting & Review
nTalent Management
nDiversity Recruiting
nPeople Development & Training
nDiversity and Inclusion Leadership Councils
n Compliance
 Colgate’s training pr
ogram Valuing Colgate People is taught in every Colgate 
subsidiary globally. Colgate also partners with organizations such as the Conference Board, Diversity Best Practices, the National Association for Female Executives (NAFE), Working Mother Media, DiversityInc, LatinaStyle and Catalyst to develop an effective and supportive work environment. Additionally, a critical piece of our diversity strategy is to ensure that our talent management process incorporates the professional development of women and minorities.
 To help foster an atmospher
e of inclusiveness, Colgate supports network and 
affinity groups representing many different perspectives and ways of life. Each group contributes to Colgate’s inclusive work environment by developing and implementing activities and programs to promote work and community involvement as well as cultural awareness.
A Selection of Colgate Network GroupsDiversity and Inclusion
PeoplePeople
In 2015, the Colgate Abilities Network (CAN) was 
introduced during Disability Awareness Month. The mission of the network is to: 
nRecruit, retain, engage, develop and provide an equal opportunity for success at work for individuals with disabilities
nBe a resource for internal business partners in the development of pr
oducts, packaging, technologies, 
policies and processes to support Colgate’s strategic initiatives
nHave a positive impact on the culture and community both within and outside of Colgate 
CAN enhances Colgate’
s culture of inclusion, provides 
an opportunity for professional development, is a cross functional resource and promotes physical and virtual accessibility. Therefore, CAN also contributes to creating more efficient and effective business processes.
Equal Pay
Colgate complies with all applicable laws and regulations related to fair pay practices. It is our policy to select, place and pay all Colgate people on the basis of qualifications for the work to be performed and without discrimination. Colgate also conducts remuneration studies periodically on a local basis to ensure alignment with our Code of Conduct, Company polices and the law. 
Supplier Diversity 
Our Supplier Diversity team in the U.S. drives increased and expanded business relationships with minority-owned and women-owned businesses, developing mutually beneficial supply relationships. Colgate works with selected diverse suppliers to build their business capabilities and to improve their ability to respond to requests for proposals and their understanding of the business requirements of corporate customers in order to support their potential for business growth. Colgate participates in a leadership role in the New York/New Jersey Minority Supplier Development Council and as a member of the National Minority Supplier Development Council, the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council and the City of New York Corporate Alliance program in mentoring women-owned and diverse-owned suppliers. One of our key priorities has been the execution of Supplier Days, when we invite suppliers to Colgate for an exchange of information on capabilities and business opportunities.
Colgate participated in a panel on measurement and metrics at a Sustainability Summit held by the New York/ 
New Jersey Minority Supplier Development Council.Colgate is committed to doing business with integrity 
and respect for all people and for the world around us. With governance and ethics principles embedded into Company culture as well as standards supporting the well-being of all Colgate people, Colgate ensures its business success goes hand-in-hand with business integrity.
Code of Conduct and Global Business  
Practices Guidelines
Since 1987, our Code of Conduct has served as a guide 
for our daily business interactions, reflecting our corpo-rate values and our standard for ethical behavior. One hundred percent of salaried and clerical Colgate people participate in annual training and certification on the Code of Conduct. Hourly employees complete this train-ing and certification process every other year. Our audit firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , audits a cross-sec-tion of these certifications. Colgate’s Global Business Practices Guidelines provide further information to our employees on key topics in our Code of Conduct. The Guidelines offer clear, practical guidance and illustrate how the values and principles outlined in the Code of Conduct apply to particular business situations. 
 The Colgate EthicsLine provides a means for employ-
ees and exter
nal parties to ask questions, obtain guid-
ance or report any suspected violations of the Code of Conduct. We work to create a workplace free of inappro-priate or unlawful behavior in which people are encour-aged to share their concerns with the Company without fear of retaliation. Consequently, at Colgate no adverse action will be taken against any employee, former employee, agent or third party for complaining about, reporting, participating in or assisting in the investiga-tion of a suspected violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct, Company policy or applicable law unless the allegation made or information provided is found to be intentionally false or was not made in good faith.
 Colgate investigates all potential Code of Conduct 
violations and ensures that the appr
opriate actions are 
taken. In 2015, we received approximately 292 contacts through the EthicsLine, covering a wide variety of ques-tions and topics. We categorize Code of Conduct investigations into the following categories: general work environment, discrimination, harassment, retaliation, accounting-related, financial-related, conflict of interest, regulatory and legal and miscellaneous other issues. In each instance of a potential violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct in 2015, the matter was thoroughly investigated and, when necessary, appropriate remedi-al action, from formal coaching up to termination, was taken. 
No Political Contributions
Colgate has a long-standing policy against making con-tributions to political parties or candidates, which is set forth in our Code of Conduct and Global Business Prac-tices Guidelines. These policies prohibit contributions to any politi
 cal party or candidate whether federal, state 
or local. We also pr
ohibit U.S. trade associations from 
using any portion of Colgate dues for political contribu-tions, and we conduct an annual reminder and certifica-tion process to ensure trade association awareness and compliance. 
Anti-Bribery
Colgate has a strict policy prohibiting bribery of govern-mental officials and private commercial parties anywhere we do business. This policy is outlined in the Code of Conduct and Global Business Practices Guidelines. Colgate also mandates that the third parties with whom we work comply with our anti-bribery policy, which is included in our Third Party Code of Conduct and further communicated to third parties through our global Due Diligence Process. 
Training
Colgate’s Ethical Leadership Training program uses  a mixture of classroom and online training and covers numerous priority ethical topics, including Anti-Bribery and Competition Law as well as the Code of Conduct certification referenced above. The Code training includes up to six topic areas every year, and the scenarios are updated on an annual basis. These courses have run continuously for over seven years. Training is mandatory and is linked to compensation for certain employee populations.Business Integrity
PeoplePeoplePrivacy and Data Protection 
Colgate respects the privacy of its employees, consum-
ers, customers, suppliers and other third parties with whom we have a business relationship, and therefore, we handle personal data responsibly and in accordance with all applicable data privacy and data protection laws. With respect to all personal data in its possession, it is Colgate’s policy to:
nOnly collect, process, use and retain personal data for the r
eason it was provided to us, unless we have 
obtained consent for other uses, and as necessary for our recordkeeping purposes;nTake all reasonable steps to safeguard personal data to prevent unauthorized disclosur
e or use;
nNot share personal data with third parties other than service providers of ours who assist us in managing our business and then, only if that party has agr
eed 
to comply with our privacy standards and all applica-ble privacy laws; and
nComply with all applicable privacy laws.
This policy is outlined in Colgate’s Code of Conduct and Business Practices Guidelines.
Social Responsibility 
Human Rights
Colgate has a long-standing commitment to respecting human rights and labor rights worldwide and supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
 Colgate practices and seeks to work with business 
partners who promote the following standards: equal opportunity for employees at all levels; a safe and healthy workplace pr
otecting human health and the 
environment; providing employees the opportunity to improve their skills and capabilities; respecting employees’ lawful freedom of association; and working with the governments and communities in which we do business to improve the educational, cultural, economic and social well-being in those communities. 
 Colgate manages labor and ethical conformance 
through a third-party Ethical Compliance Audit Pr
ogram 
for Colgate manufacturing facilities, using the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol. The audit protocol investigates criteria covering freedom of association, child labor, hazards, health and safety, wages and benefits, working hours, discrimination as well as environmental and business ethics matters. A corrective action plan is in place to remedy any potential areas of concern.Responsible Sourcing
Third Party Code of ConductColgate people are committed to the highest standards of integrity and full conformance to the Company’s Code of Conduct. It is our goal to ensure that our relationships with our suppliers and business partners reflect and support the same high ethical standards.
 Colgate’s Third Party Code of Conduct sets the 
Company’
s expectations for suppliers and business 
partners in a number of critical areas, including labor practices and universal human rights, protecting the environment, health and safety and ethical dealings. The Code is provided to suppliers and business partners, and Colgate’s contracts and purchase orders typically require suppliers to abide by the Code’s standards (or suppliers’ comparable code standards), including applicable labor and equal employment laws as well as Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety regulations, and to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Anti-Bribery Policy.
Assessing and Managing Supplier Risk
As a multinational company with a global supply chain, adverse actions and events in our supply chain could affect Colgate’s reputation as a responsible company. To manage this risk, Colgate has a formal process to identify and manage social, ethical and environmental risks in our supply chain and with other business partners. Colgate’s Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment Program requires selected suppliers and 
contract manufacturers to complete a self-assessment focused on labor practices, health and safety, environmental management and business integrity. The selection process for suppliers in this program includes factors including geographic risk (using the Verisk Maplecroft Risk Indexes along with Colgate’s in-country knowledge) as well as criticality to our operations and material type.
 As a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, 
or Sedex, Colgate uses the audit protocol to further assess suppliers’ compliance with laws covering fr
eedom of association, child labor, hazards, health 
and safety, wages and benefits, working hours and discrimination as well as environmental and business ethics matters. When suppliers are assessed as high risk, we perform third-party audits of their facilities. If any areas of noncompliance are detected, we work with the supplier to ensure these concerns are promptly remedied and the closure of all such noncompliances is independently verified. Typical noncompliances relate to health and safety, working hours and management systems. This assessment program is part of our supplier qualification process. Since the program’ s inception in 2012, Colgate 
has assessed more than 73 percent of our suppliers in high-risk geographies. Colgate is also a member of AIM-PROGRESS, a global industry forum to promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable pro-duction systems. Through these programs, suppliers share assessment and audit data with other manufac-turing companies that often share the same suppliers, enabling us to gain information more efficiently and relieving the burden of “audit fatigue” on suppliers. Through the Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment program, Colgate has driven improved working condi-tions for more than 26,000 employees across our external supply chain.
 We have also participated in capacity building 
sessions thr
ough the AIM-PROGRESS forum that are 
designed to improve suppliers’ social and environmental performance. The sessions explain the responsible sourcing assessment process and prepare suppliers for assessments and audits of their facilities. We have participated in events in Latin America and North America. In addition, Colgate conducts similar supplier responsible sourcing training events for our suppliers. 
Supplier 
Responsible 
Sourcing 
Assessments
Through the Supplier 
Responsible Sourcing 
Assessment Program, 
we have assessed the 
performance of more 
than 73% of Colgate’s 
suppliers in high-risk 
geographies since 
2012, driving improved 
working conditions 
for more than 26,000 
employees across our 
external supply chain.Forced LaborIn line with the Consumer Goods Forum’s (CGF’s) recently announced Social Resolution on Forced Labor, Colgate joins CGF in acknowledging the broad societal problem of modern slavery and will strive to eradicate forced labor from our value chains. Colgate complies with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, and our disclosure statement is available on ColgatePalmolive.com/Sustainability. Later in 2016, we will also meet the disclosure requirements of the United Kingdom 2015 Modern Slavery Act. 
Conflict Minerals
Colgate supports ending the violence and human rights violations by armed groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and neighboring countries that has been funded in part by proceeds from the mining of cassiterite, columbite-tantalite (coltan), wolframite and gold, including their derivatives tin, tantalum and tungsten (3TGs). For more information, see Colgate’s Policy on Conflict Minerals.
PeopleAccording to the World Health Organization, 
tooth decay and dental caries (cavities) are among the most chronic diseases, affecting 60 to 90 percent of school children and nearly every adult in the world. Many children around the world do not have access to the basic dental care and education that can help prevent oral health diseases.2011  650
2012 700
2013  750
2014  800
2015 850
2020 1,300GoalMillions of Children Reached Through Bright Smiles, Bright Futures
Contributing to Communities
Promoting Oral Health
As a leading provider of oral care products, Colgate has the unique ability to educate 
and improve the oral health of children and their families. Colgate’s flagship Bright Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) program is among the most far-reaching, successful children’s oral health initiatives in the world. With long-standing partnerships with governments, schools and communities, BSBF has reached more than 850 million children and their families in over 80 countries since 1991, with a new goal to reach 1.3 billion children by 2020.
 Through BSBF
, volunteer dentists visit local communities to conduct free 
dental screenings and educate children and their families about the importance of maintaining good oral health. Colgate also distributes toothpaste and toothbrushes as well as award-winning educational materials, including videos, books, software and activities in over 30 languages for use in the classroom or at home. In many countries, the materials have become part of the permanent school curriculum.
 BSBF builds on a long legacy of oral health education. Colgate has provided 
school pr
ograms since 1911. In 1991, we launched BSBF , reaching 25,000 children 
in the U.S. In 2016, Colgate is celebrating 25 years of the BSBF program. We are celebrating our anniversary all year long with our consumers, educators, retail partners, dental professionals and children.The World Health 
Organization calls 
cavities “the most 
chronic global disease.”
PeoplePeopleBrighter Smiles Around the World
nIn 2014, Colgate expanded the BSBF program to the United Kingdom wher e over 45 percent of eight-year-olds 
have experienced decay in their primary teeth. Since its inception, we have reached 300,000 children in 2,500 
schools and 9,000 dentists.nIn India, Colgate is working with Jeevika, a women’s empowerment or
ganization, to provide oral health 
education and access to products in rural communities in rural Bihar (Eastern India), where as little as 50 percent of people use toothpaste. Initially supported by the World Bank and now by the Government of Bihar, Jeevika works at the village and household level to improve livelihood and reduce vulnerability of the rural population of Bihar. The Jeekiva network reaches over two million households in Bihar through various village organizations. Through this partnership, Colgate has the ability to leverage women’s roles as change agents to improve oral care habits. “Maukhik Swasthya Mitras” in the Jeekiva village organizations receive oral care certification and act as ambassadors to teach village organizations about proper oral care and drive behavior change in the community. At the same time, Colgate is reaching children and their families in the region through the BSBF program as well as engaging rural retailers. nColgate partners with government health agencies, non-gover
nmental 
associations (NGOs) and dental associations to expand the reach of oral care education around the world. As a founding sponsor of the Alliance for a Cavity-Free Future (ACFF), Colgate has joined a worldwide group of experts seeking to promote integrated clinical and public health action in order to stop caries initiation and progression and to move towards a cavity-free future for all age groups. To date, ACFF has launched 26 chapters around the world, with more planned for 2016.nIn early 2016, Colgate launched a partnership with Save the Children to bring oral health car
e to marginalized children in the 
U.S. and globally. The partnership focuses on increasing access to oral health care and products and will benefit nearly 3,000 children in the U.S. and over 35,000 children in low-resource environments, including Bolivia, Egypt, El Salvador, Honduras, Malawi, Mozambique and Zambia.
nColgate partners with the Brazil Ministry of Health to train Community Health Agents to teach oral care and handwashing education in the community
. Over 25,000 agents have been 
trained since the program’s inception, reaching over 14 million people in more than 27 cities in the country.
Brighter Smiles Around the World
nAt the end of 2014, Colgate extended the BSBF program to the 
Southeast Asian nation of Timor
-Leste. The prevalence of dental 
decay in the region is very high—over 70 percent of the young generation has dental decay or dental-related problems. Colgate launched BSBF in Timor-Leste in partnership with the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education and other partners with a goal to provide 100,000 children with sufficient oral health education.
nIn some countries, BSBF is mobile. In the U.S., Colgate’s fleet of mobile dental vans travel to rural and urban communities to pr
ovide 
free dental screenings and oral health education to children in need, reaching over 1,000 towns and more than ten million children each year. In 2015, Colgate launched a new van program in Baltimore, Maryland, where over 30 percent of the population has untreated dental caries.
nColgate often involves our employees in BSBF programs, pr
oviding opportunities to volunteer 
in the community or to teach their families about oral health. In Swidnica, Poland in 2015, Colgate held a two-day event for employees and their families with dental checkups, fun activities and employee training to be BSBF ambassadors in the community.
nTory Island is the most remote and uninhabited island in Ir
eland. The population has limited 
access to dental care, leading to high levels of tooth decay and loss. Colgate partnered with the local school system to organize an oral health educational seminar, open to all Islanders, and provided products.nThe BSBF program builds “shar ed value” for both 
Colgate and society, enabling Colgate to make a significant impact in the communities where we live and work while engaging with consumers to build our brand value. For example, in the Philippines, a Brush at Night program highlighted the importance of brushing three times a day to children and their families. Through television advertising, the BSBF program and a teacher-led program in schools, the initiative both promoted oral health awareness in the country and helped yield over 4 percent compounded annual growth in per capita consumption of Colgate products over a three- to four-year period. The BSBF program in the Caribbean region has also helped contribute to sales growth and increased market share through Oral Health Month programs.nColgate partners with the American Dental Association Foundation each year to sponsor the Give Kids A Smile
® program, providing oral 
health education and free preventive and restorative care to children from low-income families. Each year, approximately 350,000 underserved children benefit from more than 1,500 events, thanks to the efforts of 40,000 or more annual volunteers.
PeoplePeopleSpotlight on ... Smile Grenada
Colgate partners with government health agencies, 
NGOs and dental associations to expand the reach of oral care education around the world. Partnerships help expand the BSBF program and improve oral health, especially in underserved areas. Each partner’s unique strengths and resources help achieve greater results in less time, at a lower cost and with greater sustainability. Colgate’s partnership in Grenada with the New York University College of Dentistry (NYUCD) and the Henry Schein Cares Global Student Outreach Program was a particularly successful program that brought measurable change across a nation.
 More than 83 per
cent of children in the small island 
nation of Grenada suffered from untreated tooth decay when the NYUCD–Henry Schein Cares Global Student Outreach Program conducted a national oral health survey in 2010. Together with the NYUCD, Henry Schein Cares and Grenada’s Ministries of Health and Education, Colgate partnered on a two-and-a-half-year countrywide intervention to improve the incredibly high burden of oral health disease. The Smile Grenada program included implementation of daily classroom toothbrushing routines, oral health education and applying fluoride varnish and sealants and reached all schools in the country. It was important to incorporate the program into Grenada’s existing education and early childhood health systems in order to ensure ownership by the local workforce and sustainable oral health outcomes. Teacher training included guidance on proper toothbrushing techniques and fluoride varnish application as well as age-appropriate lessons for classroom-based oral health and nutrition education.
 Smile Grenada had a dramatic effect on the clinically 
measurable indicators of oral health for school-aged childr
en in Grenada, resulting in a near 75 percent 
decrease in new tooth decay when measured in 2013. It remains one of the most successful, evidence-based interventions in Colgate’s history. NYUCD has also stated that Smile Grenada is to date the most profound example of the capacity of the NYUCD–Henry Schein Cares Global Student Outreach Program to improve oral health. Most importantly, the partnership helped improve oral health for the 26,000 children across Grenada.
 The program also pr
ovided learnings for future 
intervention to improve oral health cost-efficiently and in a sustainable manner. Based on this success, Colgate has launched a new three-year oral health intervention and research program in Manila, Philippines, where the incidence of cavities among children is 90 percent. Colgate is partnering with the University of the Philip-pines College of Dentistry, the Philippines Department of Education and New York University on a school-based intervention that follows a similar model to the Grenada project.
“Colgate believes that new, 
shared strategies for cavity prevention can change the conventional approach to treatment. Only by working collaboratively as a global team, can we find breakthrough solutions and reach those people who need them most.” 
~Ian Cook, Chairman,  
President and Chief Executive 
Officer, Colgate-Palmolive
Colgate partnered with the New York University College of Dentistry and the GrenadaMinistry of Health on a two-and-a-half year intervention that resulted in a near 75 percent decrease in tooth decay in children in Grenada.In some countries, Colgate also teaches handwashing as part of our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures oral care 
education program.Brazil“Turning handwashing with 
soap … into an ingrained habit could save more lives than any single vaccine or medical intervention.”
~Global Public-Private  
Partnership for  
Handwashing with SoapHandwashing Education
The simple act of washing hands with soap is one of the most effective ways to 
prevent disease transmission, especially in children. Handwashing with soap at key times, however, is not widely practiced. As a leading marketer of bar and liquid hand soaps, Colgate is working with public health officials, academia, local schools and clinics to educate millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene benefits of handwashing with soap. Colgate’s global handwashing program provides educational materials and sample products to schools and communities and builds awareness through advertising and public relations campaigns. In some countries, Colgate teaches handwashing as part of our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) oral care education program, building the steps for proper handwashing into the oral care curriculum and messaging. Like the oral care component of BSBF , the program creates shared value for both Colgate and society, helping to improve health outcomes while building brand awareness and reputation for Colgate’s Palmolive and Protex soap brands.
 In 2015, Colgate reached 35 million people thr
ough advertising, media campaigns, 
community events and educational programs in schools.
PeoplePeople
Handwashing Highlights
Colgate was one of the nine founding members of the Global 
Handwashing Day campaign in 2008, along with partners such as the World Bank and UNICEF . Celebrated October 15th, Global Handwashing Day drives awareness of the vital importance of handwashing with soap and its impact on health.
nIn 2009, Colgate was the first company to bring the Global Handwashing Day campaign to Thailand, raising awareness about handwashing with the Pr
otex brand. In 2015, Colgate 
partnered with Thailand’s Princess Soamsawali to raise awareness with a student art contest. Colgate also worked through the BSBF program and the Thailand Ministry of Education and Department of Health to donate bar soap and educational materials to over 30,000 schools. And with retail partner Tops, Colgate additionally engaged consumers in stores and online. Colgate has partnered with Tops to raise awareness around Global Handwashing Day since 2011.
nColgate partnered with r etailers, 
including Rossmann, Tesco and Dansk in Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Hungary in 2014 and 2015 on campaigns to raise handwashing awareness among children and their families. In one campaign, shoppers were asked to participate in a “hand-washing family challenge” by re-cording their handwashing activities and engaging in family competition. Resources were provided both in stores and online, including a down-loadable handwashing song.
nThrough the Palmolive brand’s Clean Hands, Good 
Health pr
ogram in Australia and New Zealand, we 
promote handwashing awareness to children and their families by providing pre-school education kits with posters, storybooks and teachers’ guides. Since 2009, Clean Hands, Good Health has reached 1.8 million pre-school aged children through these educational kits. The program also includes communications through web resources and online and social media engagement. Each year, Clean Hands, Good Health builds awareness around Global Handwashing Day. In 2015, we reached over five million people through digital and public relations activity, and distributed 8,000 pre-school education kits. 
nA commitment to support WASH, or water , 
sanitation and hygiene programs is part of Colgate’s Water Stewardship Strategy and our commitment to partner with local and global organizations to bring clean water to underserved areas of the world. Through our partnership with Water For People, Colgate supports programs that provide access to clean water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education, including handwashing education, in Guatemala, Peru and India. In 2015, Colgate contributed to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program, helping them to reach nearly 100,000 people in 2015 in these countries. In some areas, Colgate also implements our BSBF oral care education program and our handwashing programs in the communities that receive clean water. 
PeopleAccording to the ASPCA, over 7 million 
companion animals enter U.S. animal shelters each year. That’s nearly 4 million dogs and 3.5 million cats waiting to go home to a loving family.Helping Pets Find a Home
Through the Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love program, Colgate partners with animal 
shelters across the U.S. to provide Hill’s Science Diet pet food at a discount. Developed by veterinarians and nutritionists, Hill’s Science Diet offers superior nutrition for pets. Hill’s also provides shelters with training, digital tools and content, and shelter visuals. For pet owners, Hill’s provides Science Diet adopter kits withcoupons and “Your New Best Friend Guide” digital books. Hill’s believes that making premium nutrition accessible to every shelter—and every pet—helps send them home faster. Whether a shelter has 100 or 10,000 adoptions a year, the goal is to ensure that every pet goes home healthy and happy. Through this partnership, the Company provided pet food with a retail value of more than $3.2 million in 2015, which adds up to almost $285 million to nearly 1,000 shelters since the program’s inception in 2002. These donations have helped more than eight million dogs and cats find their forever homes. Hill’s employees are also engaged in helping pets in need. In 2015, Hill’s people in Kansas, U.S., participated in a United Way Day of Caring, volunteering at a local animal shelter. The volunteers made toys for homeless dogs, washed laundry and feeding bowls, prepared treats, tended to the play yard and spent time socializing with the animals. 
 Hill’s also partners to pr
ovide food shipments to shelters in the event of an 
emergency through the Hill’s Disaster Relief Network, a first-of-its-kind formalized U.S. emergency network for pets. Working with more than 100 existing shelter partners, Hill’s is prepared to respond quickly with food shipments for pets affected by disasters, whether to feed displaced pets and pets belonging to displaced people, or provide food to families, allowing them to keep their pets with them. In 2015, Hill’s responded to 20 emergencies across the U.S., from tornadoes to wild fires.
Hill’s Pet Nutrition has provided pet food with a retail value of almost $285 million to animal 
shelters since 2002, helping more than eight million dogs and cats find their forever homes.“Hill’s is incredibly committed 
to animal welfare organiza-tions like ours year-round through their Food Shelter & Love program, and it is wonderful that, through community service events like the Day of Caring, they also provide hands-on care to the homeless pets in the communities where their employees live.” 
~Kate Meghji, Executive 
Director for the Lawrence, 
Kansas, Humane Society“We’ve got about a thousand 
animals to care for every day at the San Diego Humane Society. That care starts with the food we provide. The program shares our vision to provide exceptional care and nutrition to animals, the hallmark of our shelter. We are very excited about the benefits for our adoption program, our staff, our adopters, and most of all, our animals.” 
~Gary Weitzman, President 
and CEO of the San Diego 
Humane Society SPCA
PeoplePeoplenColgate has sponsored the Colgate 
W
omen’s Games since 1973, the 
largest women’s indoor track and field series in the U.S. Open and free to all girls from elementary school through college and beyond, the Colgate Women’s Games have awarded over $1 million in educational grants-in-aid and produced 17 Olympians to date.Contributions
Colgate contributes both funding and products to a wide range of charities and community organizations around the world. Colgate also partners with retailers, consumers and our employees to raise funds. Driven by Colgate’s core value of Caring and supported by the involvement of Colgate people, our Global Giving Program makes a difference in the communities we serve by supporting organizations that address health and educational disparities. 
 Colgate’s giving priorities ar
e 1) creating educational opportunities, 2) advancing 
health and well-being and 3) engaging Colgate people.2015 Contributions
$28.28
million*
Highlights
n For more than 26 years, Colgate has been a sponsor of Starlight Childr
en’s Foundation®, a leading global 
charity that partners with experts to improve the life and health of kids and families around the world. Since 1989, Colgate has contributed more than $12.1 million to support programs such as Starlight
® 
Fun Center® mobile entertainment units and iPad 
tablet technology in hospitals in the U.S. to offer fun and distraction for pediatric patients.
nTom’s of Maine donates 10% of profits each year to nonpr
ofit organizations committed to causes such 
as human health, animal welfare, education, and environmental sustainability. Through the brand’s 50 States for Good program, Tom’s of Maine awarded 52 nonprofit organization winners a total of more than $1 million in combined project funding in 2015. nColgate partners with the Mexico Ministry of Public Education and the Mexican Dental Association’s foundation on the 
SaludArte (Health and Art) 
initiative to change school-based health in the country. More than 25,000 disadvantaged children in 110 schools now participate in the program, which includes daily handwashing and toothbrushing, a well-balanced meal and time for play, art, cultural activities and sports. 
nIn South Africa, Colgate sponsors the Phelophepa Train, a mobile hospital that pr
ovides medical care 
and oral health care in communities where medical services and infrastructure are unavailable. Each year the train treats nearly 50,000 people in 37 communities.
*Cash and in-kind contributions to charitable organizations, including spending for the Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program in Colgate’s 20 largest subsidiaries
(by oral care sales). 
Helping Through Our Brands
n During the month of Ramadan, Colgate Malaysia 
sponsors the Let’s Do Charity T
ogether campaign. 
For each tube of toothpaste purchased in store by consumers, a donation was made to orphanages chosen by the Malaysian Social Welfare Department. Over the last seven years, the Company has contributed more than $300,000 through this campaign to orphanages in Malaysia.
nIn India, Colgate launched a scholarship contest in 2013 to make a small yet meaningful difference in childr
en’s lives. With each round, over 200 
consumers have the opportunity to win educational scholarships of up to approximately $1,500 by calling a number printed on Colgate packaging and advertised in stores and in the community. Past winners can now attend better schools, purchase books, pay for English classes or simply continue their studies instead of leaving to work. The program brings shared value for the Company and the community—building brand reputation and awareness for Colgate while providing educational opportunities for children in need. Based on the success and impact of the India program, Myanmar, Thailand, the Philippines and Malaysia will launch similar contests in 2016. 
Helping in Times of Need
n In Myanmar, wher e nearly one million people 
experienced significant flooding in 2015, Colgate employees distributed Colgate and Protex products to victims in thirteen affected areas. Employees in Thailand and Vietnam also helped by providing funds to UNICEF , which Colgate matched.
nIn France, Colgate donated products worth appr
oximately $55,000 to a nonprofit organization 
providing aid to refugees.nIn the aftermath of Tr opical Cyclone Winston in Fiji, 
in 2016 Colgate donated over 30,000 toiletry items to the Fiji Red Cross Society, including toothpaste, toothbrushes, bar soap and cleaning products.
nHill’s Pet Nutrition partners to provide food shipments to shelters in the event of an emer
gency 
through the Hill’s Disaster Relief Network, a first-of-it’s-kind formalized U.S. emergency network for pets. In 2015, Hill’s responded to 20 emergencies across the U.S., from tornadoes to wild fires.nThrough the Haz la Lu or Make the U programs in the U.S., Colgate partners with the Hispanic Heritage Foundation to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, pr
oviding educational grants totaling $75,000 
each year for Hispanic youth.nColgate partners with The Smith Family charity to support education for disadvantaged children in Australia. In 2015, Colgate donated appr
oximately 
$190,000.
PeoplePeopleColgate People Giving Back
Colgate provides opportunities for our people to volunteer in local communities throughout the year. As part of our 
goal to involve more Colgate volunteers in our community programs, we have created ways for Colgate people to volunteer with our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) program and other Colgate-sponsored activities, and we are building more programs each year. Colgate people are eager and enthusiastic volunteers. Here are just some examples from around the world in 2015:
nColgate people in many locations across the U.S. r
olled up their sleeves 
and contributed to local communities during the third annual Colgate Cares Day in 2015. Volunteers gave their time in activities such as restoring a park area and teaching Colgate’s BSBF program. In New Jersey, Colgate people worked with our water partner, The Nature Conservancy, to plant 200 trees along the Paulins Kill River.
nIn Brazil, employees are trained to be Agentes do Sorrisos
 or Smile Agents to 
teach BSBF in local communities. The program now has a network of over 500 volunteers who have reached more than 32,000 children. 
nIn Switzerland, Colgate people partnered with 
the Basel Municipality Cleaning Department on a cleanup along the Rhine River
. 
nIn Portugal, Colgate people volunteered at a local childr
en’s home, the Casa do Gaiato, where they 
improved garden and recreational areas, installed a new sprinkler system and provided Colgate products.nTom’s of Maine celebrates an annual Goodness Day when every employee can volunteer in the community
. Tom’s of Maine employees can also 
use 5 percent of their paid time to support a cause they are passionate about, from working at historical societies or building homes for Habitat for Humanity, to maintaining trails and facilities at state parks.nColgate people in Ecuador gave back in 2015 by building two houses in the local community. In Colombia, Colgate people transformed a bus into a mobile library and gave gifts to nearly 2,000 childr
en during the 
December holidays. 
nFor four years, Colgate people in South Africa have volunteered in the local community for Earth Day
. In 2015, 
employees visited two local schools in the Johannesburg area where they planted trees and donated food. Colgate also donated water tanks for the schools and educated students about water conservation. Colgate people in South Africa also volunteer during Mandela Day, volunteering in the local community by planting trees, serving meals or visiting the sick. And as part of our Live Better commitment, Colgate has sponsored a Road Race for the Boksburg community for over 20 years, encouraging healthy exercise for employees and the community alike and donating money raised to the local Athletic Club.
PeoplePerformance
Performance at Colgate is more than just 
financial strength—it is our commitment to 
grow the business with innovative, more 
sustainable products that make the lives of 
consumers healthier and more enjoyable.Performance
77%
of palm oil and palm kernel 
oil purchases are of physical 
certified sustainable oils; 
balance covered by 
GreenPalm certificates
58.6%
Gross profit 
margin 2015
37%
Approximately 37%  
of our packaging materials  
by weight globally  
come from recycled 
sources
85%
Improved sustainability  
profile in 85% of new 
products(1)
90%
Over 90% of our pulp and paper 
is certified or is in the process 
of being certified as being 
sourced from responsibly 
managed forests 
$16,034
Million  
worldwide sales  
2015
(1) The performance results are based on representative new products and product updates evaluated against 
comparable Colgate products, considering a 2010 baseline, across seven impact areas to characterize likely 
improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data.
2015
A
T A 
GLANCEPerformance’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’1158.7(1)58.7(1)58.8(1)
58.3(1)
58.558.6
58.1
57.357.6(1)2.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)
2.572.51(2)
2.471.50
1.42
1.33
1.22
1.14
’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’1158.6
2.36 2.38
16.0 17.317.4
17.1
16.7
1.52
’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’1158.7(1)58.7(1)58.8(1)
58.3(1)
58.558.6
58.1
57.357.6(1)2.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)
2.572.51(2)
2.471.50
1.42
1.33
1.22
1.14
’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’1158.6
2.36 2.38
16.0 17.317.4
17.1
16.7
1.52
’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’1158.7(1)58.7(1)58.8(1)
58.3(1)
58.558.6
58.1
57.357.6(1)2.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)
2.572.51(2)
2.471.50
1.42
1.33
1.22
1.14
’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’1158.6
2.36 2.38
16.0 17.317.4
17.1
16.7
1.52
’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’1158.7(1)58.7(1)58.8(1)
58.3(1)
58.558.6
58.1
57.357.6(1)2.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)
2.572.51(2)
2.471.50
1.42
1.33
1.22
1.14
’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12 ’1158.6
2.36 2.38
16.0 17.317.4
17.1
16.7
1.52Financial Strength
For the full year 2015, worldwide net sales were $16,034 million. Global unit volume 
grew 1.5 percent and pricing increased 3 percent. Our leading share of the global toothpaste market increased and our global leadership in manual toothbrushes also strengthened.
In 2015, Forbes 
named Colgate one 
of the World’s Most 
Reputable Companies 
and Most Innovative 
Companies.Additional 2015 highlights 
can be found in Colgate’s 
2015 Annual Report. 
(1) 2013–2015 exclude charges related to the 2012 Restructuring Program. 201 2–2014 exclude costs 
related to the sale of land in Mexico. 2011 excludes costs associated with various business realign-
ment and other cost-saving initiatives. A complete reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on Colgate’s website and on page 130 of this report. 
(2) 2015 excludes a gain from the sale of the Company’s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific 
and excludes charges related to a change in accounting for the Company’s Venezuelan operations, the 2012 Restructuring Program and certain other 2015 items. 2013 and 201 4 exclude charges related 
to the 201 2 Restructuring Program, remeasurement charges resulting from devaluations and effective 
devaluations in Venezuela and certain other 2013 and 201 4 items. 2012 excludes charges related 
to the 2012 Restructuring Program and certain other 2012 items. 2011 excludes costs associated with business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives and certain other 20 11 items. A complete 
reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on Colgate’s website and on page 130 of this report.
(3) Per share amounts have been restated for the 2013 two-for-one stock split.Net Sales  
($ billions)Gross Profit Margin 
(% of sales)
Diluted Earnings(3) 
($ per share)Dividends Paid(3) 
($ per share)
The Colgate brand 
was ranked in 2015 by 
Interbrand as one of the 
Best Global Brands.
Colgate’s  
Governance  
Principles
Colgate’s Governance 
Principles support our 
continuing financial 
success. See the 
Governance section on
Colgate’s website at 
ColgatePalmolive.com 
for more information.PerformanceInnovation  
Opportunities
Colgate is working to 
create products to meet 
the evolving needs of 
consumers, focusing on 
innovation opportunity 
spaces that are based 
on global megatrends. 
A formal process is in 
place for Colgate teams 
around the world to 
research and ideate 
on these topics, which 
include the area of 
water scarcity as well 
as the area of naturals 
and well-being.
Stronger consumer engagement begins with better insights. We are obtaining deeper and 
more meaningful consumer insights and using them to strengthen product development, packaging and the communications we deliver through our integrated marketing campaigns.Engaging to Build Our Brands with Consumers
 We listen to consumers both as we develop products and when they are put on 
the shelves. Over 1,000 studies ar
e conducted annually around the world to hear from 
consumers before our products are sold. We have built brand loyalty by maintaining a 
deep understanding of local tastes and habits across categories. Colgate investigates key consumer insights, unmet consumer needs and opportunities for performance improvement in existing products.
 We also listen to consumer feedback on our pr
oducts. Colgate’s Consumer Affairs 
departments manage consumer relations around the world, covering 95 percent of Colgate’s business. Highly skilled consumer representatives respond to consumer complaints, inquiries and compliments through multiple channels of communication. We use robust quality control and quality assurance programs to ensure Colgate’s consumer satisfaction policy is followed and provide continuous feedback to improve our service delivery. In addition, we regularly monitor key performance indicators for service in several regions around the world, specifically for phone interactions, striving for 100 percent satisfaction. In our 2015 surveys, over 90 percent of consumers who called us in North America were “satisfied” or “very satisfied” with our service. Consumer-Driven Innovation
Every day, people around the world use Colgate products to care for themselves, their families and their pets. Colgate delights shoppers with innovative products that meet their needs, exceed their expectations and add value to their lives. Colgate’s nine consumer innovation centers, situated close to consumers in differ ent parts of 
the world, are focused on developing insight-driven innovation. Operating in over 200 countries and territories across four major product categories that encompass over 20 sub-categories, Colgate launches over 600 new products and product updates every year.
Colgate  
launches over 
600
new products and 
product updates 
every year.*
*Minions image licensed from Universal Studios Licensing LLC. All Rights Reserved.Performancepage 64
Increasingly, consumers are 
purchasing products that both meet their needs and have a reduced environmental and social footprint. They want to buy safe products from brands that they trust and expect transparency about the ingredients in their products.PerformanceProduct Sustainability at Colgate
Product sustainability at Colgate means a continued 
commitment to safe, sustainable, high-quality products that consumers can trust. Collaborative teams across the Colgate world are coming together to develop products with an improved sustainability profile that continue to meet and exceed consumer expectations. As part of our 2015 and 2020 Sustainability Strategies, we have committed to increase the sustainability profile in all new products we produce and in the balance of our portfolio. We are embedding this goal across all categories. In 2015, we improved the sustainability profile in 85 percent of our new product launches (see page 68).
 We also r
ecognize that consumers are increasingly 
interested in products with a sustainable or natural brand promise, and we provide products to meet this expectation. For example, our Tom’s of Maine business provides products created with a defined Stewardship Model for natural, sustainable and responsible product development and ingredient sourcing (see page 79).
 Product sustainability at Colgate extends beyond 
our own operations to the full value chain of our pr
oducts, from our supply chain to consumer usage, 
to product end-of-life. We are working to reduce the carbon footprint of our ingredients (see page 92), to reduce the water needed during the use of our prod-ucts (see page 101), and taking steps to encourage a circular economy for our packaging (see page 112).
 Each global category—Oral Care, Home Car
e, 
Personal Care and Pet Nutrition—has specific sustain-ability strategies and goals. For example, in our Home Care category we are working to offer concentrated products, improve ingredient biodegradability, engage with suppliers on green chemistry and continue to expand the portfolio of products that help consumers use less water. In the Personal Care category we are educating consumers in underserved communities with handwashing education programs, formulating products with an improved ingredient sustainability profile and exploring products that allow consumers to use less water. Within the Oral Care category, we have goals to expand the number of children reached though our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program, a commit-ment to breakthrough innovation in oral care packaging and a commitment to remove PVC from toothbrush packaging. We are also promoting water conserva-tion awareness to our consumers with a Save Water message. Hill’s Pet Nutrition supports shelters and pet adoption through its Food Shelter Love Program and is taking steps to improve consumer communication with on-package recycling communications on cans, making a commitment to responsible and sustainable seafood and leading our Zero Waste to Landfill efforts.
 Some of the choices we make for our products may 
affect multiple pr
oducts within a category. For example, 
improving a preservative can have far -r
eaching impacts 
across more than 20 product variants (see page 70 for examples).
 Colgate has also integrated sustainability into 
our product development and packaging design pr
ocesses. Changes and opportunities to improve 
product sustainability are considered throughout the development process by multiple functions. Annually, new products planned for launch are reviewed with our Product Sustainability Scorecard.
See pages 17 to 25 for more information on how we are embedding sustainability across our product categories.Embedding Sustainability Across Our CategoriesPerformanceProduct Safety and Quality
The decisions we make on ingredients are based on a thorough evaluation of the 
latest scientific evidence. When we choose an ingredient—whether to contribute to the performance of a product or to keep it safe against microorganisms—it is first pre-screened by a team of Colgate scientists. Every ingredient is assessed alone and within a formula to ensure that nothing unexpected will occur. Our ingredient reviewassesses not just what happens in our laboratories, but also across a range of real-world conditions—during manufacturing, in transportation, at the store, in consumers’ homes and after consumer use.
 We continuously monitor and evaluate the safety of our ingr
edients, and we 
actively engage with outside experts and resources to understand emerging science and deepen our knowledge. We seek the facts so that we can make the right decisions. Where we see opportunities regarding ingredients that are raising consumer questions, we substitute with other safe ingredients that provide the same or better benefits without sacrificing quality. Through this ongoing effort, we no longer use or are on our way to eliminating some of the ingredients currently raising consumer questions, as described below.
Ingredient Highlights
n In 2013, Colgate made commitments to eliminate formaldehyde donors, parabens, phthalates and microbeads fr
om our products over the next two years. Colgate 
has eliminated phthalates and microbeads from all products and expects to eliminate formaldehyde donors and parabens in the limited number of remaining products over the course of 2016. See Colgate’s Policy on Ingredient Safety for more information. 
nWe comply with all aspects of the European Union’s REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances).
nWe disclose in the U.S. and Canada the ingredients in Oral Care, Personal Car
e and Home Care products according to the Consumer Product Ingredient 
Communication Initiative (CPICI) of the American Cleaning Institute, the Consumer Specialty Products Association and the Canadian Consumer Specialty Products Association.
nAs a member of the Grocery Manufactur ers Association, Colgate contributed 
to the development of the Smart LabelTM initiative. This platform will enable 
consumers to obtain additional details about products by scanning a QR code or doing an online search to reach a landing page with information on ingredients.“We’re not just thinking about 
the safety of the person 
holding the toothbrush, but also the safety of their toddlers and pets. Together, we at Colgate-Palmolive have a lot of experience, knowledge and collected data about how our products are used, and we combine those to make robust, safe products.”
~Dan Roman,
Product Compliance Engineer
Ingredient  
Sustainability
We improved the 
ingredient sustainability 
profile in Palmolive 
Oats bar soap, 
removing a parabens-
preserved extract.PerformanceProduct Safety Testing
Colgate has a long-standing worldwide policy to 
minimize and to ultimately eliminate animal testing for all Oral Care, Personal Care and Home Care products. Central to this commitment are our 30-year-long efforts to encourage the development of alternatives that are scientifically valid and can be accepted by safety regulators. We are a leader in promoting, encouraging and participating in the development, validation and acceptance of alternative non-animal testing methods worldwide, investing over $1 million annually on research with non-animal alternatives. We also work closely with worldwide regulatory agencies to examine how non-animal tests can be incorporated into their safety requirements for consumer products.  Globally, ther e are circumstances when regulatory 
agencies require animal testing. In such limited instances, the tests are conducted at external testing facilities that meet both government standards and the rigorous requirements established by Colgate with input from animal welfare groups. We look forward to a day when all necessary safety studies can be performed without the use of animals and will continue to work to help make that day come sooner.
 For more information on Hill’
s Pet Nutrition’s commit-
ment to the humane treatment of dogs and cats, see the Hill’s Commitment to Animal Welfare at HillsPet.com.
Colgate continues our commitment to finding and using alternative testing methods through support and involvement with 
the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing (EPAA) and the Institute for In Vitro Sciences (IIVS). We actively share our work to reduce animal use and develop alternatives so that this information can help others in their search for ways to minimize animal use.Partnering to Develop AlternativesPerformanceColgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard
In order to measure progress toward our 2015 goal to increase the sustainability 
profile in all new products we produce and in the balance of our portfolio, Colgate began evaluating new products using a Product Sustainability Scorecard in 2012. Colgate engaged Pure Strategies, a leading sustainability consultant, to validate our Product Sustainability Scorecard and the 2013–2015 results. Pure Strategies provided the following validation statement in regard to the Colgate Product Sustainability Scorecard: “Nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard could not be used to track progress on improving the sustainability profile of new products and the balance of their portfolio.” The scorecard rates products with 25 parameters across seven impact areas: Responsible Sourcing and Raw Materials, Energy and Greenhouse Gases, Waste, Water, Ingredient Profile, Packaging and Social Impact. Colgate set a stretch goal to improve the sustainability profile in all new products by 2015. Through cross-functional collaboration across the Colgate world, we have made progress each year and are delighted to have improved the sustainability profile in 85 percent of new products in 2015.
(1) We will continue our progress in the coming years, with a renewed stretch 
goal to reach 100 percent by 2020.Scorecard  
Validation
 Colgate engaged 
Pure Strategies to 
validate our Product 
Sustainability 
Scorecard.
Percentage of New Products with Improved Sustainability Profile
2012
24%2013 
48%2014 
72%2015 
85%2020 Goal 
100%
We improved the sustainability profile in 85% of new products and the balance of our portfolio in 2015.(1)
(1) The performance results are based on representative new products and product updates evaluated against comparable Colgate products, considering a 2010 
baseline, across seven impact areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data.Performance
2015 Product Highlights
Developed to appeal to Chinese consumers 
looking for effective products with healthy, natural ingredients, a new line of toothpaste launched in 2016 in China offers refreshing benefits. It uses natural ingredients such as aloe extract, seaweed extract and lotus leaf extract.
As part of our work with suppliers to improve the sustainability of preservatives in raw materials, products such as Irish Spring Signature for Men Hydrating body wash and Softsoap brand specialty foaming hand soap in North America now contain a self-preserved surfactant (an important soap ingredient).
Ajax Lemon Lime dish detergent in Colgate’s Africa/Eurasia Division now has an improved ingredient sustainability profile, requires less water and generates less waste in the manufacturing process and has an improved ratio of the weight of the package compared to the weight of the product.Palmolive Caprice Specialties shampoo and conditioner products in Mexico now require nearly 90 percent less water to manufacture and have an improved ingredient sustainability profile.
A portable travel toothbrush in North America is now made with 20 percent less plastic resin and the package now includes our Save Water reminder. Less energy is also required in the manufacturing process.Performance
2015 Product Highlights
Sustainability improvements made across a platform of products, such 
as a range of similar toothpaste or body wash products, can have a big impact. For example, several toothpaste variants in Latin America, such as Colgate Herbal Brilliant White toothpaste in Argentina, now contain a natural key ingredient instead of a chemically-converted ingredient. The glycerin for the toothpaste is also now sourced from Latin America, and the toothpaste requires less water for production.Palmolive Naturals bar soap in Latin America now requires less energy and water to manufacture and produces 8 tons less manufacturing waste per month.New Sanex Advanced Atopiderm hand cream in Europe has an improved ingredient sustainability profile, contains no parabens and provides a clinically-proven improvement in skin soothing, softness and smoothness.
Palmolive Spa Gourmet Mint shower gel in Colgate’s Africa/Eurasia Division has an improved ingredient sustainability profile, and fewer resources are required to produce the product formula.Moving towards more local sourcing of ingredients and products reduces greenhouse gas emissions associated with transportation. For example, Colgate Optic White Whiten and Restore in Turkey is now sourced from Poland instead of China; Colgate’s Maximum Cavity Protection toothpaste from Colombia, Ecuador and Peru is now sourced from Colombia instead of Mexico; and a key ingredient in Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection Plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste in Europe is now sourced from the United Kingdom instead of Brazil.
Colgate Max Fresh Shockwave toothpaste in North America has an improved ingredient sustainability profile.
Performance
Colgate continues to offer more sustainable product options, including Palmolive eco+ automatic dishwasher detergent, 
which is phosphate-free; Palmolive pure + clear dishwashing detergent, which has no heavy fragrances; the Sanex Zero% range, specifically developed to contain a reduced number of chemical ingredients; and Tom’s of Maine personal and oral care products with naturally sourced or derived ingredients.
2015 Product Highlights
Introduced in Poland in 2014, an improved manufacturing 
process for a range of toothpaste variants reduces the energy, greenhouse gases, water and waste associated with production. In 2015, this improvement was made for Colgate Total Daily Repair, Colgate Sensitive with Sensifoam and Colodent Whitening Explosion in Europe.
Ajax Citrus Burst floor cleaner in Colgate’s South Pacific region has an improved ingredient sustainability profile, and fewer resources are required to produce the product formula.
We improved the ingredient sustainability profile in an update of Softsoap Black Orchid and Velvet Hibiscus body wash in the U.S. Performance
Improving Raw Materials
Colgate is working with our supplier partners to improve the sustainability of our raw materials. We are exploring 
ways to implement green chemistry, move to renewable raw materials and improve our upstream carbon and water footprints.
Product Highlights  
Colgate is partnering to identify and develop more sustainable preservation solutions, including sponsoring and participating in the Green Chemistry and Commerce Council (GC3) Preservative Task Force. We are also working with chemical suppliers to improve the sustainability of preservatives in raw materials and moving to self-preserved raw materials where possible. For example, an ingredient that is now used across all of Softsoap cleansing products is a self-preserved surfactant, cocoamido propyl betaine, which does not need an additional antimicrobial preservative.
Several Hill’s Pet Nutrition products have a reduced carbon footprint due to energy efficiency improvements in the supply chain. For example, a Hill’s vitamin supplier now uses solar energy to contribute the energy needed for vitamin production. Other suppliers have also reduced their water use and greenhouse gas emissions, improving the footprint for products such as Hill’s Ideal Balance Crafted Grain Free, Hill’s Science Diet Feline Adult Hairball Control and Hill’s Prescription Diet Canine Metabolic and Mobility.
Tom’s of Maine uses a USDA-certified bio-based propylene glycol, which is made from renewable carbon content (vegetable oil) instead of petroleum in its deodorants, reducing greenhouse gases by up to 61 percent based on life cycle analysis compared with petroleum-based counterparts. Tom’s of Maine’s Naturally Dry antiperspirant stick is a first in the industry, using aluminum chlorohydrate, a wetness protection ingredient, made from recycled aluminum originally derived from natural mineral bauxite ore. Tom’s of Maine also uses Rainforest Alliance certified palm oil in its soap products.
In North America, Colgate Enamel Health Multi-Protection toothpaste has a reduced carbon footprint with a new formula that is self-preserving, eliminating the need for an additional preservative.Performance
Focus on Packaging
Colgate is committed to improving the sustainability profile of our packaging. 
Colgate’s packaging organization regularly evaluates materials and processes that can improve the sustainability profile of our packages.
Colgate’s packaging sustainability strategy centers around the following actions:
n Assessing the human health and environmental impact of our packaging wher e 
appropriate
n Striving to design products for r euse, recyclability and materials reduction while 
ensuring product integrity
n Working to minimize the volume and weight of our packaging and using the 
minimum amount of packaging r
equired to label and protect our products
n Utilizing recycled content
n Increasing the recyclability of our packaging through design choices and innovation
n Expanding refill package systems in pr oduct categories where feasible
n Coding our packaging with recycling symbols where appropriate, supporting efforts to educate consumers and supporting innovative efforts to impr
ove local recycling 
systems
In 2014, Colgate set additional packaging targets for 2020. We committed to improve the recyclability of our packaging, committing resources to enable breakthrough innovation in Oral Care packaging. We have also committed to deliver 100 percent recyclable packaging in our Personal Care, Home Care and Hill’s Pet Nutrition categories. Additionally, we will increase the recycled content of our packaging to  50 percent.
 We ar
e working to improve recyclability of our packages through development of 
perforated shrink sleeves and phasing out use of PVC in our toothbrush packaging. We are exploring alternatives to mixed plastic resins, doy packs, sachets and wrappers as well as innovative underarm antiperspirant and deodorant packaging.In 2015, Colgate estimated or updated the carbon and water footprints for our Oral Care, Personal Care and Home Care categories (see pages 92 and 98). We are beginning to use this data to engage with our suppliers in the areas where we can have the greatest impact.
Recycled Content
 Approximately 
37%
of our packaging  
materials by weight 
globally come from 
recycled sources
n
Colgate’s 2020 goal 
is to increase 
recycled content in  
our packaging to
50%
Responsible  
Sourcing
Over 90% of our pulp 
and paper is certified or 
is in the process of being 
certified as being sourced 
from responsibly managed 
forests. See page 116 or 
Colgate’s Policy on 
No Deforestation for 
more information.
In Asia, the charcoal in Colgate Total Charcoal Deep Clean toothpaste, Colgate Active Salt Charcoal toothpaste and Palmolive Naturals Flawless Clean bar soap is a by-product of the bamboo industry.
PerformancePackaging Highlights
Oral Care
In Colgate’s Oral Care category, we are using recycled content and certified materials in many of our cartons, phasing out PVC plastic blisters from our toothbrush packaging and researching options to improve the recyclability of oral care packaging.
Approximately 65% of Colgate’s toothpaste cartons globally are recyclable.
In North America, Colgate Enamel Health toothpaste cartons are now made from recycled cardboard.
A new children’s battery-operated toothbrush in North America has a cardboard carton instead of PVC plastic packaging. This change also eliminates the need for water cooling of the plastic, resulting in less water use during manufacture of the toothbrush.Colgate Salt Fresh toothpaste in Asia has an improved product-to-package ratio.Performance
Packaging Highlights
Personal Care
In our Personal Care category, we continue to minimize the volume and weight of our packaging and increase the recycled content and recyclability of our plastics where feasible.
Home CareIn Colgate’s Home Care category, we are continuing to minimize the volume and weight of our packaging, increase our use of recycled plastics, improve the recyclability of our packaging and design packaging for refill and reuse across many of our products.
A new bottle for Palmolive Naturals shampoo variants in Colgate’s South Pacific region now has a reduced cap and bottle weight.
Palmolive Naturals Luminous Hydration shampoo in Latin America has a reduced cap and bottle weight.
A new size of Axion dishwashing cream in Latin America has an improved product to package ratio. More product can also be transported per truck, reducing greenhouse gases associated with transport.
The new Sanex Advanced line of hand creams in Europe uses less secondary packaging for display in stores.PerformanceHill’s Pet Nutrition
Hill’s Pet Nutrition is optimizing primary and secondary packaging, engaging with packaging suppliers toimprove efficiency and encouraging consumers to recycle its wet food cans.
In 2015, Hill’s completed the qualification and integration of a new packaging vendor in the U.S. and converted two of three corrugate boxes to 100 percent recycled materials in the Richmond, Indiana plant. Investigation of specifications that would enable a third box to convert to 100 percent recycled content is underway. Hill’s also optimized the supply of corrugate boxes to its dry food plants in the U.S., reducing system-wide inbound freight miles from 1,100 miles to 160 miles and reducing greenhouse gases.
We recognize the importance of reducing waste at every stage of the product life cycle including at the end-of-life of 
our products and packaging. See page 112 for more information on our programs to collect packaging waste and our commitment to work with stakeholders to drive continuous improvement in local recycling systems.Packaging End-of-LifeHome Care Continued ...
Hill’s has started to roll out a communication on its 
Science Diet and Prescription Diet wet food cans encouraging consumers to “Please Recycle Can.”A new size for Ajax dishwashing detergent in North America has an improved product-to-package ratio and uses less secondary packaging.Ajax Bucket Dilutable Cleanser in Europe with a new cap design has an improved product-to-package ratio. The change in design also reduced the number of trucks needed to transport the caps by approximately 40 percent, reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Performance
Our commitment to product sustainability is built on 
a long-standing commitment to deliver innovative products that make the lives of consumers healthier and more enjoyable. Through our products and brands, we are working to deliver solutions to health problems, to educate our consumers about sustainability and to enable them to use fewer resources. From our first bar of soap sold in 1806 to industry-leading oral care products today, a commitment to both delight and help our consumers is part of our brand promise.
 As a leading provider of oral car
e products, oral 
health is strongly linked to our business, and Colgate has the unique ability to educate and improve the oral health of children and their families around the world. We perform extensive clinical research to develop the best technology, conducting more than 100 studies annually. We also work to instill new behaviors, which are supported by public policy. See pages 47 to 50 for examples of our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures and other oral health programs. Our ongoing oral care research will help us to both deliver products to meet local needs and continue to grow our business. For example, in Latin America we have completed the first ever baseline survey to understand the level of gingivitis in six countries. That data will be shared with the dental profession with a goal to work together to significantly reduce the level of disease through education and use of Colgate products. We are also investing in growing our brands through encouraging consumers to brush properly for a recommended two minutes, two times a day with toothpaste—bringing shared value for both Colgate and the community.
(1) In a six month clinical study. Regular fluoride toothpaste reduced early decay by nearly one-third (32 percent).Brands That Delight Consumers and Sustain Our World
Colgate’s Maximum Cavity Protection Plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste provides an important public health benefit and 
enhanced anticavity protection—reducing early tooth decay by half.(1)Maximum Cavity Protection Plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer ToothpastePerformanceAdditional Highlights:
Just like the human epidemic, almost 50 percent of 
the pet population in the U.S. is overweight. Hill’s Pet Nutrition nutritionists and veterinarians developed Prescription Diet Metabolic clinical nutrition specially formulated to support weight management. Eighty-eight percent of pets lost weight at home in two months when fed the nutrition of Prescription Diet Metabolic.
Handwashing with soap is one of the most effective ways to reduce the spread of disease. Through our Protex and Palmolive brands, we are working with public health officials, academia, local schools and clinics to educate millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene benefits of handwashing with soap. Learn more on pages 51 to 53.
Colgate is promoting water conservation awareness to our consumers worldwide through reminders on our packaging, digital and in-store engagement and our oral health education and handwashing awareness programs. See page 103 for more information.We are seeking solutions to allow consumers to use less water and energy with our products. For example, a new product in Europe, Ajax Easy Rinse Spray also helps consumers save water by making it easier to rinse the product after cleaning. Our fast dry technology, in multiple fabric softener offerings globally, brings a unique technology that wicks away water from fabric to help clothes dry faster, saving consumers time and energy. Colgate’s no-rinse fabric softener technology also enables consumers to save water. 
PerformanceSpotlight on ... Product Stewardship at Tom’s of Maine
Our Tom’s of Maine business provides products created with a defined Stewardship 
Model for natural, sustainable and responsible product development and ingredient sourcing. The Stewardship Model is a practical tool that guides the brand’s decision-making on its products. Every ingredient Tom’s of Maine uses goes through a stewardship review process. Tom’s of Maine also screens prospective suppliers to make sure their approach to purity, consistency, safety, processing, sustainability and responsibility meets the stewardship standards with proof to back it up.“The ingredients inside 
your natural personal care 
products matter, and we believe that you have a right to know what they are, what purpose they serve, the natural source they come from and how are they are made.” 
~Joanne Murphy, 
Stewardship Committee 
Leader, Tom’s of Maine
Tom’s of Maine Stewardship Model
n Sourced and derived from nature
n Free of artificial flavors, fragrances, 
colors, sweeteners and preservativesn Simple and understandable ingredients
n Free from animal ingredients
n Not tested on animalsn Ingredient processing that supports our philosophy of human and environmental health
n Delivering value to our consumers
n Sufficient research conducted to show safety and efficacy
n Purposeful in system of ingredients with complete transparency about the purpose and source of the ingredientn Sourced from suppliers and regions which promote basic human rights
n Honesty in all claims made for ingredients, packaging and productsn Conform to the requirements of regulatory authorities (Food and Drug Administration and Federal Trade Commission) and other professional organizations with which we have chosen to partner (American Dental Association)Our Standards for Natural
Our Standards for ResponsibleOur Standards for Sustainable
n Originating from recyclable or renewable plant-based resources n Striving to reduce waste through recycled content, recycling and biodegradabilityn Promoting the use of sustainable growing and harvesting practices
PerformanceProduct sustainability at Colgate also means a commit-
ment to providing affordable product options in our port-folio. We have established a 2020 goal to have a positive impact by expanding access to affordable health and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities.
 We make pr
oducts more affordable while maintain-
ing quality with smaller sizes, refill packages and value options. We work for wide distribution so that more consumers have access to Colgate products. Offer -
ings are customized to best reach consumers within their socioeconomic level, taking into account available household income and specific consumer needs. We are also finding ways to offer the benefits of more premium products at affordable price points to provide products that yield more product per use and to help consumers to dose properly to eliminate waste. 
 Globally, we strategically balance Colgate’
s portfolio
between base and premium tiers as appropriate forthe region. Products like our Colgate Maximum CavityProtection toothpaste are targeted for usage by the whole family at an affordable price point, while offerings like Colgate Total Multi
-benefit or Colgate Sensitive Pr
o 
Relief toothpastes are offered at higher price points, addressing more therapeutic needs of consumers. In Colgate’s Africa/Eurasia Division, toothbrush offerings range from value options of Extra Clean and Double  Action to Zig Zag, a mid-tier price product, to Colgate 360, a super-premium option. In the Philippines, we supply small, low-priced items to Sari Sari stores. These stores contribute almost 50 percent of our sales in the country. In Latin America and Africa, sachets of cleaning products, dish detergent and fabric softener are avail-able at lower price points. In India, Colgate developed toothpaste variants at a 10 rupee price point to meet the needs of those consumers with a low, fixed budget. This toothpaste offering has grown to play a key role for Colgate in the India toothpaste segment, demonstrating strong year-on-year growth. We are reaching consumers in rural areas and building distribution; over 40 percent of stores that sell toothpaste in India now offer this product.
 Colgate is also finding ways to offer the benefits
of more pr
emium products at affordable price points,
both in emerging markets and for value consumers in developed markets. In 2015, Colgate launched a tooth-brush with a tapered bristle at an affordable price point in Vietnam, Taiwan and China. Tapered bristles have been shown in a clinical study to remove more plaque, reduce gingivitis and reduce gum abrasion. Our Extra Clean toothbrush was also relaunched globally last year at an affordable price point. We also continue to expand distribution of Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection Plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer toothpaste, which provides an important public health benefit, which is enhanced anti-cavity protection. In Brazil, smaller, more affordable sizes of this toothpaste as well as Colgate Luminous White toothpaste are contributing to our growth in the region.
 In some markets, building rural distribution is chal-
lenging. W
e are working to develop innovative models 
and distribution networks to reach more consumers. For example, in India we are reaching remote village areas with special compact vans, increasing our coverage in rural areas from 22,000 villages in 2012 to 57,000 vil-lages in 2015. In that time, Colgate has also recruited over 1,000 new salespeople and added over 1,000 new vans. In Cameroon, Colgate has improved coverage and customer service levels in smaller towns by using branded motorcycles able to visit remote villages to take orders. As next steps, we will identify key markets for replication of these models and test the model in new locations.Access and Affordability
In emerging markets, Colgate makes products more afford-
able with smaller sizes, refill packages and value options.PerformancePartnering with Customers
We partner with hundreds of thousands of retail stores, 
large and small, to sell Colgate products around the world. Treating all retail customers with fairness and integrity is a priority. We engage our customers worldwide by sharing unique shopper insights, providing innovative in-store marketing communications and merchandising techniques and developing and executing joint business planning initiatives. These activities ensure the right product assortment at each location and help to make shopping a consumer-friendly, enjoyable experience that drives increased sales for both Colgate and the retailer.
 To ensur
e continued success, we track retailer 
satisfaction in 20 of Colgate’s largest subsidiaries every two years. The Company participates in a widely-used industry standard syndicated survey run by the Advantage Group. The objective is to measure our Customer Engagement with the goal of strengthening our performance across key markets. In 2015, Colgate was ranked as the No. 1 manufacturer in eight separate countries. Colgate was also ranked in the top one-third of all manufacturers in countries representing 89 percent of the business. Additionally, Colgate participates in a program to obtain feedback from six major global retailers. Results are analyzed at a customer, country, region and global level and are used to identify global trends, providing key input to shaping the direction of the Company’s overall customer engagement strategy. In 2015, Colgate was ranked No. 4 out of 19 industry leading fast-moving consumer goods manufacturers. This marks the fourth year in a row Colgate has been ranked fourth or higher.
 Colgate also partners with key customers to advance 
our mutual sustainability goals. We often partner to engage consumers with pr
ograms such as our Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) oral health education program, Operation Smile and Terracycle
®. We also 
regularly report to several retailers through product stewardship surveys. In Advantage Group surveys, Colgate was ranked in the top tier of suppliers in 12 of 17 markets when assessed for our ability to work with retailers to meet goals on social and environmental sustainability. We were ranked as “top supplier” on this topic in Russia, Colombia, Central America and Italy.
nColgate partnered with retailers around the world to celebrate World Water Day on March 22, 2016, and raise awareness about water conservation. In Turkey, Colgate partnered with retail partner Migros to reach online shoppers with a Save Water message. See page 103 for more information on World Water Day.
nColgate partners with retail stores around the world such as Walgreens, Carrefour, Tesco, Walmart, Rossmann and Coles to promote oral health through our BSBF program, Oral Health Month campaigns and other oral health programs. In several programs, Colgate and retailers work together to provide oral health education in local schools as well.Highlights
PerformancenColgate partners with retailers such 
as Rossmann in Europe and Tops in Thailand to promote handwashing awareness both in-store and online with the Palmolive and Protex brands.
nTo help consumers “upcycle” Colgate products, Colgate and Terracycle® partnered with both Shoprite and 
Meijer stores in 2015 on a recycled playground giveaway. In-store displays drove awareness for recycling through Terracycle
® and publicized a contest for schools to win a playground made from recycled toothbrushes 
and toothpaste tubes. Tom’s of Maine and Terracycle® also partnered with Hannaford stores in the U.S. to 
reward a school with a garden made from natural care waste collected through the Tom’s of Maine Natural 
Care Brigade.
nColgate partnered with retailer Auchan in Portugal in 2015 to provide free dental check-ups at Auchan stores and to promote oral health habits for Auchan employees at their headquarters and to children at a local school.
nIn Colombia, Colgate received the 2015 Best Supplier—Sustainable Development award from retailer Grupo Exito in recognition for our investment in health education, contribution to the community and reduction of our impact on climate and the environment. Colgate was also one of three finalists for Grupo Exito’s 2015 Consumer Goods Best Supplier award.
nIn 2014 and 2015, Colgate collaborated with Target in the U.S. to make a donation to St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital’s Target House with sales of an exclusive children’s toothpaste and toothbrush as well as Softsoap liquid hand soap and Palmolive dish liquid. Colgate also donated $100,000 to a special event for children in December 2015, along with children’s toothbrush, toothpaste and Softsoap products.
nTom’s of Maine was named one of 20 natural brands in Target’s highly selective Made to Matter program, which delivers exclusive product innovations focused on the sustainability objectives of clean label, reduced packaging, and closed loop systems.
nIn Brazil, Colgate has partnered with Walmart on three End-to-End projects to improve sustainability across a product’s value chain. For example, making changes to a shopper pack of toothpaste and soap reduced greenhouse gas emissions, plastic and fuel use.
Performancen Colgate was one of 25 American Cleaning Institute (ACI) 
member companies to complete the requir
ements for ACI’s 
first year of the Charter for Sustainable Cleaning. Com-panies who sign up for the Charter must formally commit to the ACI Principles for Sustainability, participate in ACI’s Sustainability Metrics Program and work toward imple-menting a set of Essential Sustainability Procedures and Activities (SPAs).
n Colgate is also committed to the European Inter national 
Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Prod-uct’s (AISE) Charter for Sustainable Cleaning.
n Colgate is an active member of the Home and Personal Care Sector of The Sustainability Consortium, which is committed to impr
oving product sustainability through the 
development of a standardized Sustainability Measurement and Reporting System. 
n Colgate is a member of the Forum for the Future Beauty and Personal Car
e Working Group, an industry collabora-
tion to improve sustainability in the beauty and personal care sector. 
n As a member of the Grocery Manufactur ers Association, 
Colgate contributes to the development of the Smart Label
TM initiative. This platform will enable consumers to 
obtain additional details about products by scanning a QR code or doing an online search to reach a landing page with information on ingredients. 
n Hill’s Pet Nutrition is a member of the Pet Food Sustain-ability W
orking Group, a collaboration to align on sustain-
ability principles for the pet food industry. 
n Colgate joined other companies in 2011 to found the American Institute for Packaging and the Environment (AMERIPEN), which is focused on coor
dinating the indus-
try’s environmental packaging efforts.
n Colgate is a palm oil member of The Forest T rust (TFT), 
which is working with Colgate to meet our palm oil 
traceability and responsible sourcing commitments.n Colgate is a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), which is working on solutions for the use and growth of sustainable palm oil.
n Colgate is a member of the Round Table on Responsible Soy (R
TRS), an internationally recognized forum working 
to develop and promote a standard of sustainability for the production, processing, trading and use of soy.
n Colgate is an active member of AIM-PROGRESS, serving on its leadership team. AIM-PROGRESS is a global industry forum to promote r
esponsible sourcing practices 
and sustainable production systems. It is a global initiative supported and sponsored by the European Brands Association in Europe and the Grocery Manufacturers Association in North America.
n Colgate continues our commitment to finding and using alternatives to animal testing thr
ough support and in-
volvement with the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing (EPAA) and the Institute for In Vitro Sciences (IIVS). 
n Colgate is an active member of the Society of Toxicology (SOT). SOT is committed to cr
eating a safer and healthier 
world by advancing the science of toxicology. In addition to supporting these broad objectives of SOT, Colgate also supports SOT specifically in the areas of research and education in the field of alternatives to animal testing. This support funds education and research for students and postdoctoral fellows and then makes grants available to in-career researchers to advance the development of non-animal methods for research and testing. 
n Colgate is a Global Partner in the Society of Environmental T
oxicology and Chemistry (SETAC). Colgate supports 
SETAC’s mission to develop principles and practices for protection, enhancement and management of the environment by providing a forum where professionals can exchange ideas and discuss environmental challenges, regulations, research and development and environmental education.Product Sustainability Partnerships 
Colgate partners with industry groups, non-governmental organizations and research groups around the world to 
meet our product sustainability goals and to share insights to collectively work towards more sustainable product offerings. Below are some highlights.Planet
O perating in today’s world requires an
enhanced focus on conserving Earth’s finite 
resources, addressing climate change and maintaining the well-being of our planet for generations to come. Our planet-related commitments cover the environmental issues material to Colgate, our energy use, carbon emissions, water use and waste generation as well as our commitment to no deforestation. We are also committed to sustainably built and run facilities. We are making progress in each of our planet goals and working with partners and consumers to make Planet a priority.Planet
90%
Over 90% of our pulp and 
paper is certified or is in the 
process of being certified 
as being sourced from 
responsibly managed 
forests
(1) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor.
 “LEED” and related logos ar
e trademarks owned by the U.S. Green 
Building Council and are used with permission.
26.2%
reduction in greenhouse  
gas intensity and  
21.7% reduction in  
energy intensity  
in 2015 vs. 2005(1)
    77%
of palm oil and palm kernel 
oil purchases are of physical 
certified sustainable 
oils; balance covered 
by GreenPalm 
certificates 
72%
of our manufacturing 
facilities have achieved 
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 
Challenge for Industry 
Recognition
37%
Approximately 37% of our 
packaging materials by weight 
globally come from recycled 
sources
2015
A
T A 
GLANCE
40%
reduction in waste sent to 
landfill per ton of product 
manufactured vs. 
2010(1)
    33%
reduction in water use 
per ton of product 
manufactured in 
2015 vs. 2005(1)
10
LEED-NC certified 
facilities and over 10 
additional projects 
underway PlanetColgate’s Climate Strategy
Energy
Management
and InvestmentClimate
ResilienceLow- 
Carbon
EnergyCollaboration
and
DisclosureLow-Carbon
Products and
Supply ChainsOur Climate Commitment 
At Colgate, we understand the potential consequences of climate change and we are committed to acting 
responsibly and conscientiously to protect people and the environment wherever we operate. We recognize that businesses, their suppliers, customers and consumers along with other stakeholders have a vital role to play in addressing the global issue of climate change.
The area of climate change and climatic events is one of Colgate’s Key Sustainability Issues identified on page 7. 
It is a key focus for our business from both a reputational and an operational standpoint. Consumers, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other external organizations expect companies to do their part in the fight against climate change. Reducing our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions also enables Colgate to avoid costs. Since 2002, our energy-reduction projects have helped us avoid nearly $500 million in energy costs. Managing the risk associated with climatic events such as storms and droughts is also important to ensure the continuity of our own operations and that of our supply chain. See page 95 for more information on Climate Resilience. Science-Based GoalsPlanetKey elements of our Climate Strategy include: 
Science-Based Goals 
We will set science-based climate goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Energy Management and Investment 
We will continue to improve our global Energy Management System and invest in planet-related improvements via our manufacturing capital program. 
Low-Carbon Energy 
We will promote use of renewable energy and support development of low-carbon energy supply. 
Low-Carbon Products and Supply Chains 
We will quantify greenhouse gas emissions throughout our value chain and focus on reducing the most significant emissions. Colgate will ensure responsible sourcing of the forest commodities associated with deforestation. 
Climate Resilience 
We will integrate climate resiliency into our risk management processes. 
Collaboration and Disclosure 
We will collaborate with stakeholders to demonstrate business leadership on climate. We are also committed to transparency and will publicly disclose our climate strategies and goals and report on our progress. 
To help drive our climate strategy, our 2020 Sustainability Strategy includes a 
commitment to “Reducing Our Impact on Climate and the Environment.” Our commitment is supported by four goals:
nResponsibly source forest commodities to reach zero net deforestation 
nPromote use of renewable energy and reduce absolute greenhouse gas 
emissions from manufacturing by 25% compar
ed to 2002 
nReduce our manufacturing energy intensity by one-third compared to 2002 
nPartner with key suppliers, customers and consumers to reduce energy, 
greenhouse gas emissions and waste 
Reducing  
Our Impact  
on Climate  
and the  
Environment“Stabilizing the global 
climate is the greatest 
challenge of the 21st century
. Temperatures 
have exceeded global annual averages for 38 consecutive years. The impacts are being felt all around the world ... Extreme weather events are becoming more frequent and severe ... Rising sea level threatens coastal communities and infrastructure by amplifying flooding and storm surge.” 
~World Resources Institute
PlanetScience-Based Goals
Our climate strategy is anchored in setting and achieving science-based goals to 
reduce greenhouse gases. As part of our 2020 Sustainability Strategy, Colgate will reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent compared to 2002. This 2020 target exceeds the requirements of the “Linear Approach” to a science-based goal, which is based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s RCP 2.6 Carbon Pathway, one of the climate trajectories used for modeling and research. Our target also exceeds the requirements of the “Sectoral Decarbonization Approach” to a science-based goal, which is based on the 2°C change in global average temperature scenario developed by the International Energy Agency (IEA). This approach was developed by the World Wildlife Fund, World Resources Institute and CDP with consulting support from Ecofys.
 Last year, Colgate also joined in the CDP and W
e Mean Business Coalition’s Road 
to Paris 2015 commitments, publicly committing to adopt a science-based green-house gas emissions reduction target. Our target will allow us to play our part in limiting global warming to 2°C as recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
 As part of our strategy to track and reduce gr
eenhouse gas emissions, Colgate 
also tracks direct and indirect CO 2 emissions as well as direct nitrous oxide, sulfur 
hexafluoride, HFC and PFC emissions. We additionally estimate “NOx”, or nitric oxide, emissions from Colgate’s North American and European car fleets and from the trucks that deliver Hill’s Pet Nutrition products to retail customers in vehicles that are controlled by Colgate. We also track VOC data as needed to comply with local regulations. 
Energy Management and Investment
Colgate has a long-standing energy reduction program that has brought us reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and energy use intensity as well as financial savings. Our Energy Management System is modeled after U.S. EPA’s ENERGY STAR program and is implemented globally. In 2016, Colgate was named a U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the sixth year in a row, with recognition for Sustained Excellence. Additionally, 72 percent of our manufacturing facilities have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry recognition, including 88 percent of Oral Care plants, 82 percent of Personal Care plants and 71 percent of Home Care plants. Key elements of Colgate’s energy management program include: 
nTop 10 Energy Actions
As a way to help our global sites prioritize on the most effective ener gy reduction 
activities, we cr
eated our Top 10 Energy Actions program. Implemented over 
two-year increments, this program tracks progress against our ten best energy reduction opportunities.Science-Based  
Goals
Colgate committed 
to reduce absolute 
greenhouse gas 
emissions by 25% 
compared to 2002.
72% of our 
manufacturing facilities 
have achieved U.S. 
EPA ENERGY STAR 
Challenge for Industry 
recognition, including 
88% of Oral Care plants, 
82% of Personal Care 
plants and 71% of Home 
Care plants. Colgate named  
a U.S. EPA ENERGY 
STAR Partner of the Year 
for the 6th year in a row
PlanetnEnergy Treasure  
Hunt Program
We engage people acr
oss 
Colgate’s operations through participation in the Energy Treasure Hunt program. Over a three-day period, 30 to 50 participants visit all areas of a facility, searching for energy waste and brainstorming opportunities for continuous improvement. Since the program’s launch, over 500 Colgate “treasure hunters” worldwide have identified more than 1,400 energy-saving ideas with the potential to deliver  $17 million in energy savings.
n5% for the Planet
Our 5% for the Planet program sets a global goal to spend 5 per
cent of our manufacturing capital expenditure
budget on energy r
eduction, water conservation and reduction of waste to landfill. Upgrades for environmental 
compliance and product design are funded separately. Over the last five years, environmental projects have competed successfully for funding with our mainstream portfolio, reducing our footprint and delivering savings. Since 2011, we have invested nearly $139 million in over 865 planet-related projects, which have delivered an estimated savings of over $34 million.
(1)  In 2015, we exceeded our 5 percent target, investing nearly 7.5 percent 
of the budget in over 180 Planet-related projects.
A minimum of 2 percent of the manufacturing capital budget is targeted specifically toward energy reductionprojects. In 2015, we exceeded this target with over 4.6 percent of the budget invested in projects yieldingan estimated $2.8 million in annual savings.
5% for the Planet 2015 Manufacturing Capital Expenditure Budget Investments
Investment  (%) Investment  ($ millions)  Projected Annual Savings  ($ millions)
Energy 4.6 17.9 2.8
Water 1.4 5.5 0.7
Waste T
o Landfill  1.3 5.1 1.3
(1) Estimated investment and savings numbers based on available historical data Planet0.30.40.5
100150200
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
0.30.40.5
100150200
CO2 Intensity             Energy Use IntensityCO2 Intensity (kgCO2 / ton of product)Energy Use Intensity (MWh / ton of product) 
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 20052005 to 2015 Manufacturing Carbon Emissions and Energy Intensity2015 Highlights
n Bowling Green, Kentucky, U.S.
By replacing high-pressure sodium lights with LED lights in the Bowling Green, Kentucky plant’s 
war
ehouse, we saved an estimated 556 MWh of electricity, reduced CO 2 emissions by 340 metric tonnes 
and saved $33,000 annually.
n Compiegne, France
The process for blowing plastic bottles for home care products consumes a large amount of compressed air
. Instead of using the same air pressure for each type and size of bottle, our Compiegne, France plant 
installed a control system to work with its current software to vary the air pressure according to the type and size of bottle being blown. This additional system is estimated to save 666 MWh in electricity, 55 metric tonnes of CO
2 and save over $61,000 annually. 
n Anzio, Italy
An energy improvement idea identified during the Anzio, Italy plant’s Energy Treasure Hunt in 2013 was to r
eplace lower efficiency motors with high efficiency motors with inverters. In 2015, the plant r eplaced 
36 such motors which are estimated to reduce electricity demand by 600 MWh, reduce CO 2 by 243 
metric tonnes and save $160,000 annually.
n Bangpakong, Thailand
The Bangpakong, Thailand plant improved the efficiency of the water chiller system located in its soap pr
oduction building by replacing the existing air-cooled type chiller with a new higher efficiency water-
cooled typed chiller. This new system is estimated to decrease the energy usage of the soap plant chiller system by 40 percent and save the plant 1,085 MWh in electricity, 574 metric tonnes of CO
2 and save 
$106,000 annually. 
Our 2015 goal was to reduce both the energy intensity and carbon emissions intensity associated with the manu-
facture of Colgate’s products by 20 percent vs. 2005. We have exceeded these goals, with a 21.7 percent reduction in energy intensity and a 26.2 percent reduction in carbon emissions intensity in 2015 vs. 2005.
(1) 
Since 2005, we have 
avoided  
CO2 emissions 
equivalent to  
removing over  
200,000 passenger
cars from the  
road for one year.(1)
(1) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor. PlanetLow-Carbon Energy
As part of our strategy to achieve a 25 percent absolute reduction 
in greenhouse gases by 2020, we will promote use of renewable energy and support development of a low-carbon energy supply. Colgate continues to evaluate and implement on-site and market-based renewable and alternative energy sources such as solar, wind, biomass, fuel cells, green power and cogeneration for feasibility and applicability worldwide.
 For over ten years, we have utilized our internal Global Ener
gy 
Reduction Team to continuously evaluate our best opportunities to implement cogeneration, solar and fuel cells as cost-effective, environmentally beneficial technologies. Even though we are not an energy-intensive company, we have found several instances to install cogeneration and solar power systems as a way to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, lower costs and increase energy reliability around the world.
 Colgate is a U.S. EPA Gr
een Power Partner, supporting the 
voluntary use of green power to reduce the environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity use. Partners benefit from the use of green power while supporting the development of renewable energy in the U.S. Colgate purchases wind power from facilities in the electricity grids that serve its U.S. manufacturing plants. In 2015, Colgate purchased Green-e certified wind power renewable energy certificates generated from three wind power farms located in Kansas. To ensure these incremental costs are accurately reflected in our financial decision-making, costs associated with procurement of Green-e certified renewable energy certificates are allocated back to our largest operations based on the size of their greenhouse gas footprint. This cost-of-carbon allocation process reflects the true cost of operation in carbon-intensive markets and supports incremental energy investment as part of our 5% for the Planet program. Colgate is also actively exploring renewable energy procurement options related to Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) as another way to support the development of additional renewable energy projects.
Improving Refrigerants
Although Colgate is a minimal user of refrigerants, we are doing our part to responsibly manage the quantities of refrigerants we use over time. In 2015, we updated our global refrigerant inventory and issued a global standard and associated e-learning training tool to assist our global facilities in transitioning towards less carbon-intensive refrigerants.Colgate is a member of the U.S. EPA’s  
Green Power Partnership and  
was named to the National Top 100 list  
in 2015, representing the largest green power 
users within the Partnership.
In 2015, Colgate purchased Green-e certified 
wind power renewable energy certificates generated from three wind power farms located in Kansas.
Planet10%
Sourcing 
of 
Materials 
and 
Capital 
Goods85%
Consumer 
Use 
and 
Disposal 
of 
Products3%
Distribution 
of 
Products2%
Colgate 
OperationsUpstream emissions including sourcing of materials and services
Emissions from Colgate manufacturing
Downstream distribution of products
Use and disposal of products50x
1x3x10x
Colgate’s Carbon Footprint* Low-Carbon Products and Supply Chain
We have continued our work to understand the carbon footprint across our value chain. Our direct, or Scope 1  
emissions, are from sources that are owned by Colgate. Our indirect, or Scope 2 emissions, result from our purchase of electricity, heat or steam produced by other entities. We are also working to track and reduce our Scope 3 emissions from upstream production and supply as well as downstream distribution and consumer use. We have completed detailed carbon footprints for our Oral Care, Personal Care and Home Care categories. These footprints help us to understand our highest impact areas and opportunities for continuous improvement.
Colgate has shared this practical approach with key partners such as the World Resources Institute and CDP to help others find simple ways to estimate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a company’s value chain.
 While there ar
e shifts between categories, given the nature of our product portfolio, the most significant 
emissions in our value chain are consistently associated with raw and packaging materials, including forest commodities and mined materials; consumer use of our products; and the end-of-life of the consumer package.
Raw and Packaging Materials, Including Forest Commodities
Our value chain footprint helps to identify and prioritize opportunities to reduce the carbon footprint of our products through material and supplier choices. Our sustainability, procurement and product formulators are piloting supplier engagement on our highest carbon-intensive materials to identify opportunities to reduce their footprint. We also *Emissions from Sourcing of Materials and Capital Goods and emissions from Consumer Use and Disposal of Products exclude Hill’s Pet Nutrition. Colgate 
Operations includes emissions related to factory energy and waste, employee business travel and commuting and leased assets. Planetrequest that our Tier I suppliers and suppliers of carbon-intensive materials participate 
in the CDP Supply Chain Program Climate Disclosure to help us understand and address climate impacts and associated risks and opportunities in our upstream supply chain. In 2015, more than 39 percent of our Tier I suppliers responded to the survey, including our largest raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers. We achieved a 77 percent supplier response rate, significantly higher than the average rate for all member companies. 
 We also r
ecognize that deforestation and forest degradation significantly 
contribute to the release of greenhouse gases. Our No Deforestation Policy commits to responsibly and sustainably sourced forest commodity materials by 2020. Our policy addresses practices relating to palm oil, pulp and paper, beef tallow and soy. See page 116 for more detail on Colgate’s progress on policy implementation.
Consumer Use of Products
Colgate has developed products that enable consumers to reduce their energy and water use. For example, our fast dry fabric softener offering brings a unique technology that wicks away water from fabric to help clothes dry faster, saving consumers time and energy. Colgate’s no-rinse fabric softener technology enables consumers to save water and energy associated with the manual rinse cycle. A new product in Europe, Ajax Easy Rinse spray also helps consumers save water by making it easier to rinse the product after cleaning. 
We also have a goal to pr
omote water 
conservation awareness to Colgate’s consumers around the world through on-package, digital and in-store Save Water reminders. This messaging encourages consumers to save both water and energy. By turning off the tap, our consumers reduce their greenhouse gas footprint by reducing energy needed to pump water from the source to their faucet as well as reducing energy needed to heat water when used for washing hands and showering. See page 101 for detail on our progress.
Packaging End-of-Life
We recognize that the disposal of our products is a significant contributor to our carbon footprint. Our 2020 goals are to increase recycled content of our packaging to 50 percent and to provide our consumers with recyclable packages in order to help reduce their carbon footprint. See page 73 for more information.
Over 90% of our pulp 
and paper is certified or 
is in the process of 
being certified as 
being sourced from 
responsibly managed 
forests. See page 116 
or Colgate’s Policy on 
No Deforestation for 
more information. Colgate has requested 
our largest suppliers 
to respond to the CDP 
Supply Chain climate 
change and water 
questionnaires to increase 
their climate, energy and 
water risk awareness.PlanetMoving Products to Consumers 
Colgate’s Customer Service and Logistics teams con-tinue to implement sustainable and efficient logistics projects ar
ound the globe that reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions. Using new and improved planning tools, we are reducing costs, better serving our customers and reducing our carbon footprint. Colgate is making strides on carbon reduction in several geographies. Our North America region has reduced logistics greenhouse gas emissions by 27 percent per ton of finished goods moved since 2010. Asia has reduced emissions per ton by  16 percent since 2012, and Latin America has reduced emissions per ton by over 10 percent since 2010. Hill’
s 
Pet Nutrition emissions increased over the period to meet customer service expectations.
 In developed markets where intermodal infrastruc-
tur
e is available, we continue to work to increase the 
utilization of intermodal transportation where goods ar
e 
shipped in an intermodal container or vehicle that can move through different modes of transportation such as by sea and rail. When compared with using trucks and aircraft, intermodal transportation reduces greenhouse gas emissions and reduces cost.
 In emerging markets, we ar
e reducing greenhouse 
gases through improved truck utilization and greater use of the available railroad infrastructure. In Asia, we reduced carbon emissions in 2015 by 10 percent compared to the previous year by increasing the use of rail and ocean transportation and improving trailer utilization on full truckload shipments and the use of larger vehicles. In Mexico and Brazil, we continue to drive carbon reductions with increased truckload utilization and increased direct customer pick up. Carbon reductions across the two countries averaged 4 percent in 2015 compared to the previous year. In Russia, we increaseduse of railway transport and improved fleet efficiencies, resulting in a 16 percent reduction in 2015 compared to the previous year.
 In North America, we continue to explore 
opportunities to partner with transportation pr
oviders 
that use tractors fueled by compressed natural gas. During 2015, we also implemented key initiatives to increase intermodal shipments and to reduce the number of transfer shipments between distribution centers. The U.S. and European logistics teams are also using new technology to improve shipment load building and container utilization. This new tool fully optimizes the use of space in each Colgate truck. In the first month, over 50 fewer trucks were needed, saving nearly $50,000. Annual expected savings are $600,000 in the U.S. alone. The system is being rolled out globally to enable other regions to reduce emissions and achieve savings. 
Travel and Office Footprint
Colgate has installed telepresence technology in 39 countries around the world, enabling business reviews and meetings to be conducted virtually. The number of telepresence meetings conducted in 2015 increased by 42 percent. We also work with our global travel provider to track our greenhouse gas emissions associated with our airline flights, train travel, rental cars and hotel stays. Moving forward, we are planning to create employee awareness by posting messaging about our travel carbon footprint on our telepresence rooms and systems. 
 Qualifying individuals in the U.S. may work up to two 
days a week from home or another r
emote location on 
a regular basis. Employees participating in this program have an improved work-life balance and a reduced greenhouse gas footprint by eliminating travel emissions.
 Colgate has also long been committed to sustainable 
buildings. To lear
n more, refer to page 114 for details on 
our partnership with USGBC LEED for new construction. In addition to this commitment, Colgate is updating office spaces around the world. Our new office spaces reduce our carbon footprint and offer Colgate people modern collaborative work spaces with natural light. In the U.S., Colgate and 
Hill’s Pet Nutrition are U.S. EPA SmartWay Transport Partners.
In addition to the material sourcing, consumer use of products and packaging end-of-life, Colgate drives continuous 
improvement in other areas we can influence and drive reduction: PlanetFurther detail of our risk 
management strategies related to climate change, water availability and forest commodity risk can be found in our response to CDP’s annual climate change, water and forest surveys.
Quantifying Scope 
3 emissions  
and goalsU.S. EPA’s Green 
Power Partnership 
National Top 100 List
Colgate was 
named to the CDP 
Climate Disclosure 
Leadership Index for 
the fifth time in 2015U.S. EPA Energy 
Star Partner of the 
Year for six years Global LEED 
commitment for 
construction of 
new facilities
Climate Resilience
Colgate has a long-standing operations risk 
management process that includes managing the impacts of episodic climatic events such as storms, floods, droughts and temperature extremes to our facilities and supply chain. As part of this process, we assess potential climate vulnerabilities and risks to ensure our business is able to respond and recover from climatic events. This work allows us to integrate longer-term climate resiliency into our business decisions related to our facilities, material supply and logistics in order to help minimize disruptions.
 As part of our loss-prevention pr
ogram, our 
strategic manufacturing sites are mandated to be highly protected against risk. These risks include natural disasters and climatic and seismic events such as earthquake, volcano eruption, tsunami, tropical cyclone, extra-tropical storm, hail, tornado, lightning, wildfire, river flood, flash flood and storm surge. Property loss control third-party assessments are conducted for all natural disaster hazards on a rotational basis, including at least annually for all strategic sites. Category contingency product sourcing plans have been developed and are updated routinely.
 Colgate also conducts contingency planning 
for anticipated climatic events to ensure continuity of operations. In 2015, contingency planning was completed for materials sour
ced from the Gulf of 
Mexico with the potential to be impacted during hurricane season and agriculturally sourced materials from around the world impacted by El Niño. In 2015, we also continued our efforts to evaluate 
climate and water risks and resiliency associated with key raw and packaging materials via the CDP Supply Chain Pr
ogram. Colgate has participated in 
the program since its inception in 2008, increasing the scope of suppliers each year. In 2016, Colgate is hosting a student project in the MIT Sloan School of Management’s Action Learning Sustainability Lab to evaluate the long-term impacts of climate change on a key agricultural material.
Collaboration and Disclosure
Colgate is committed to transparency and has reported publicly on our carbon and energy reduction performance since 2004. Through these disclosures we address financial, regulatory, physical and reputational risks, as well as savings associated with eco-efficiency.
 In 2015, we continued to collaborate with a variety of 
stakeholders and to engage with leading organizations to inform our climate strategy and drive continuous impr
ovement on a broader basis.
Planetpage 96
According to the World Resources Institute, 
36 countries around the world face “extremely high” levels of water stress, leaving communities and businesses vulnerable to water scarcity. PlanetWater and 
Sanitation 
AccessCollaboration
and
DisclosureDirect
OperationsSupply Chain
ManagementConsumer 
UseEcosystem
ProtectionMaking Every Drop of Water Count
One of life’s most basic needs, water is also essential to business. It is an ingredient in many Colgate products 
and required in almost every phase of the product life cycle. Clean water is also vital to the communities we serve, yet in many regions of the world, it is becoming an increasingly scarce resource. We take our responsibility as conscientious stewards of water seriously and are committed to making every drop of water count. Water Stewardship is one of our Key Sustainability Issues identified on page 7. 
Key elements of our Water Stewardship Strategy include:
Direct Operations: We will continue to invest in water conservation and assess water risks associated with our 
global operations; we will replenish water in highly stressed regions and manage our wastewater appropriately.
Supply Chain Management: We will increase supplier participation in our water stewardship program with a goal to 
identify opportunities and mitigate water risks.
Consumer Use: We will strive to develop innovative products that enable consumers to use less water, while 
meeting or exceeding their expectations. Colgate will also promote water conservation awareness to our global consumers.
Water and Sanitation Access: We respect the human right to water, sanitation and hygiene. We will partner with 
local and global organizations to bring clean water to underserved areas around the world. We will also provide health and hygiene education in our communities.
Ecosystem Protection: We will strive to protect water-related ecosystems such as forests, wetlands, aquifers and 
rivers.
Collaboration and Disclosure: We will partner with stakeholders and our communities to help drive water 
stewardship programs. We are committed to transparency and will publicly disclose our water stewardship strategies and goals and report on our progress. Colgate’s Water Stewardship Strategy
PlanetColgate’s Water Use Footprint* To help drive our Water Stewardship Strategy, our 2020 Sustainability Strategy 
includes a commitment to Making Every Drop of Water Count. Our commitment is supported by five goals:
nReduce our manufacturing water intensity by half compared to 2002
nReplenish water withdrawn in highly stressed r egions
nIncrease supplier participation in our water stewardship program
nPartner with local and global organizations to bring clean water to underserved 
areas of the world
nPromote water conservation awareness to all our global consumers 
Colgate’s water use footprint consists of three main areas: the water used by our suppliers to produce the raw and packaging materials we purchase; the water used by our facilities to manufacture our products; and the water associated with the consumer use of our products.
Historically, we have focused on reducing the water used in our own operations; 
however, in 2015, Colgate undertook a comprehensive project to better understand the water use associated with each step of our value chain. The results of this water footprint exercise helped quantify the opportunities to have a positive water impact beyond our own operations.
9%
Raw and Packaging 
Material Supply<1%
Product 
Manufacture90%
Consumer 
Use
*Excluding Hill’s Pet Nutrition
Making 
Every Drop 
of Water  
CountPlanetDirect Operations
Colgate has had manufacturing water conservation goals since 2002. Since 2005, we 
have reduced the water consumed per unit of production in the manufacture of our products by over 33 percent
(1), and our new 2020 goal will take us even further—we 
will reduce our manufacturing water intensity by half compared to 2002 and find ways to replenish water withdrawn in highly stressed regions.
We have avoided enough  
water consumption to 
fill approximately 7,700 
Olympic-sized swimming 
pools since 2005.(1)
cubic meters / ton of product
1.016
2014
1.008
2015
1.324
2006
1.507
2005
1.031
2013
1.277
2007
1.216
2008
1.146
2009
1.091
2010
1.058
2011
1.054
20122005 to 2015 Manufacturing Water Usage Intensity*
*Excluding water in products
 Colgate invests in water conservation strategies at our global facilities via 
our manufacturing capital program and by implementing our W
ater Stewardship 
Standard. We continue to use the True Cost of Water Toolkit. Developed with Rutgers University Business School and its Supply Chain Management Program, the manufacturing-based tool is designed to help sites quantify some of the hidden costs of water such as pre-treatment, pumping and wastewater treatment, thereby increasing both economic and environmental opportunities for reduction. With broad participation from our global sites, we have found an average “true” cost of water that is 2.5 times more than the purchase cost alone. 
 In regions with high water str
ess, we will continuously assess water risks and 
implement appropriate resiliency measures as a way to anticipate and mitigate impacts. In 2015, Colgate hosted a student project in the MIT Sloan School of Management’s Action Learning Sustainability Lab to identify factors that should be considered as we work to meet our commitment to replenish water in highly stressed regions.
 Our global manufacturing sites have helped to develop and implement many 
innovative water conservation tools and programs. Insights fr
om our facilities in 
countries like Brazil and India are helping us to optimize our water consumption around the world.
(1) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor. PlanetHighlights
nWater Treasure Hunt Program  
in Mexico
This two-day, self-directed event focused on finding simple and cost-effective ways to r
educe water waste, reuse and 
recycle water and increase water conservation awareness among employees. 
nRainwater Harvesting in India
Our Oral Care plants in Goa and Baddi, India, utilize rainwater harvesting systems to reduce water consumption and r
educe impacts to ground-
water supplies.nWater Recycling in Brazil
Our manufacturing sites in Brazil have invested in numerous water recycling technologies, including r
everse osmosis, as a way to treat 
and reuse water for utilities such as cooling towers and boilers. These investments ensured continued operation during the recent water crisis in São Paulo.
Supply Chain Management
We are working to increase supplier engagement in our water stewardship program in two ways: 1) participation in the CDP Supply Chain Program and 2) identification and engagement of suppliers of our most water-intensive raw and packaging materials.
 We request that our Tier I suppliers and suppliers of water
-intensive materials participate in the CDP Supply 
Chain Program Water Disclosure in order to help us understand and address water impacts and associated risks and opportunities in our upstream supply chain. In 2015, 33 percent of our Tier I suppliers responded to the survey including our largest raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers. 
 As a way to help reduce the water associated with the production of raw materials, we ar
e working to identify 
the most water-intensive materials in each of our product categories. With this information, we are able to then engage our suppliers to better understand the opportunities to reduce the water footprint of our products through feedstock choices and conversion efficiency, particularly in markets under high water stress.PlanetConsumer Use
Our Products
Colgate understands that the water required to use our products represents the largest portion of our overall water footprint. To that end, water scarcity is an opportunity for innovation, and we are working to develop products that allow consumers to use less water.
nAjax Easy Rinse Spray helps consumers save water by making it easier to rinse the product after cleaning.nAs part of our focus on innovation opportunity spaces that are based on global megatr
ends, 
a Colgate team is working to develop the next generation of products that require less water to use. Additionally, our Product Sustainability Scorecard includes an evaluation of water use, enabling our research scientists to consider water reduction ideas early in the product design process. 
nMurphy Soft Wipes clean wood without the use of additional water.
W
ater Conservation Awareness 
Consumers also have an important role to play in conserving water as they use our products. Through actions such as turning off the faucet while brushing their teeth and washing their hands, much water can be conserved. In order to help consumers in this effort, Colgate has a goal to promote water conservation awareness to all our global consumers.
nIn 2013, we began to include a Save Water message on our packages ar
ound the world, 
supported by a website that gives water saving tips and reminders for toothbrushing, handwashing, dishwashing and showering, and is available in ten languages. 
nSuavitel’s No-Rinse fabric softener technology in Latin America eliminates the need for a rinse cycle. It is available in Suavitel Sin Enjuague and Suavitel Complete pr
oducts. PlanetnIn 2015, Colgate continued campaigns to increase consumer awar eness both online and 
in stores. In the U.S., Colgate partnered with The Nature Conservancy to promote water 
conservation awareness in selected Safeway and Walmart stores. In Brazil, the Sorriso toothpaste brand challenged consumers to take the #DesafioDoCopinho or One Cup Challenge, and use just one cup of water to brush their teeth.
nWe are also engaging Colgate people in water conservation and continued our inter
nal Save Water 
Project pledge campaign in several locations in 2015. Employees at some sites have also participated in local river cleanups. Employees in Basel, Switzerland, participated in a River Clean-Up Day in partnership with the city. They cleaned up the Rhine River in Basel and collected over 100 kilograms of garbage along this iconic river and water source that runs from the Alps to Rotterdam. 
nIn 2016, Colgate aired our awar d-
winning Save Water video message during football’s Big Game. Consumers were also invited to make a personal pledge to save water at EveryDropCounts.Colgate.com. This campaign alone has reached over 2.7 billion people through earned and social media and views of the television and online video. 
PlanetWorld Water Day 2016 Around the World
In 2016, Colgate expanded the Save Water campaign globally with messaging around World Water Day on 
March 22. Our video and message to make every drop of water count was live in more than 60 countries around the world.
nColgate continues to partner with The Nature Conservancy to r each consumers in the 
U.S. In March 2016, communications in Walmart stores in California, Nevada and Arizona reminded consumers to turn off the faucet while brushing their teeth.
nIn Thailand, Protex brand bodywashes wer
e sold in limited-edition World Water 
Day packaging. The unique bottles display a Save Water message when wet.
nIn other Asian countries, Colgate aired our Save W
ater video on 
television and social media in China, Hong Kong, India, the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand.nIn Colgate’s Africa/Eurasia Division, including in T urkey, Israel and South Africa, Colgate aired the 
Save Water video on television and online and partnered with Migros and Walmart stores to reach consumers. In Ghana, Colgate distributed calendars with water-saving tips, and in Kenya, Colgate promoted water conservation awareness in local schools.
*For an average family size of 2.5 membersColgate-Palmolive is proud to support The Nature Conservancy. Learn how you can help at nature.org.PlanetnIn Latin America, our Save Water video 
air
ed on television networks across 
Mexico, Central America and Colgate’s Andina, Southern Cone and Caribbean regions. Colgate also partnered with retailers to reach consumers in stores and online as well as engaged with digital messaging on Facebook. Additionally, Colgate partnered with Disney’s The Jungle Book movie to promote the message that Every Drop Counts through advertising online and on television, and an engaging website in Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Panama and Peru. nIn Europe, Colgate is rolling out an on-package Save Water reminder to consumers. To celebrate W
orld Water Day, employees were invited to take a pledge to save water and share 
their commitment via social media. For every pledge made, a donation was made to support our PlayPump program in South Africa (see page 105).nIn China, Colgate partnered with W
atsons stores to 
reach consumers with water conservation messaging. 
nAll Colgate Divisions engaged Colgate people around the world on W
orld Water 
Day, inviting them to take a Save Water pledge and share the word about water conservation. Some locations also held events with guest speakers or volunteered in the local community.
nIn Colgate’s South Pacific r egion, employees and consumers who took a 
pledge to Save Water received a “shower buddy” device to help them time their showers to five minutes. The region is also rolling out Save Water reminders on its packaging.Planet
Water and Sanitation Access
Colgate respects the human right to water, sanitation and hygiene. One of Colgate’s 
2020 Sustainability Strategy goals is to work with local and global organizations to help promote access to clean water. We also provide health and hygiene education in communities around the world.
 Since 2013, Colgate has partnered with Water For People in support of their goal 
of 100 per
cent drinking water coverage in 30 districts across nine countries by 2018. 
Colgate’s contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program helped them to reach nearly 100,000 people in 2015 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education in Guatemala, Peru and India.
 We also recognize that communities faced with inadequate access to safe water 
often do not have adequate sanitation services and that handwashing is not widely practiced. As mentioned on page 51, Colgate works with public health officials, academia, local schools and clinics to educate millions of childr
en and their families 
about the health and hygiene benefits of handwashing.
 Further, as a matter of long-standing practice, Colgate provides safe water
, 
sanitation and hygiene to all people in our workplaces.In South Africa, we 
continue to bring clean 
water to people through 
our sponsorship of 
PlayPumps, which 
provide an opportunity 
for children to play and 
help villages obtain 
clean water from wells. 
Colgate now sponsors 
25 pumps.
Water For People 
Colgate’s contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever 
program helped them to reach nearly 100,000 people in 2015 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education in Guatemala, Peru and India.
Colgate People  
Giving Back
In Guatemala, groups 
of Colgate people 
have visited several of 
the communities that 
received clean water 
and volunteered to clean 
up at the school, plant 
gardens and paint as well 
as to teach children the 
importance of oral health 
and handwashing with 
our Bright Smiles, Bright 
Futures program. Planet
Colgate is supporting The Nature Conservancy in its mission to protect and restore the health of rivers, lakes, wetlands and 
forests as well as to educate consumers about the importance of clean, accessible water for people and nature.Ecosystem Protection
Colgate works to protect water-related ecosystems 
such as forests, wetlands, aquifers and rivers, which lie at the heart of the global water cycle. All freshwater ultimately depends on the continued healthy functioning of these ecosystems. Colgate will continue to work to protect water-related ecosystems through our commit-ments to no deforestation, water replenishment, aqui-fer protection, wastewater treatment and community partnerships. 
 In the U.S., Colgate is supporting The Nature 
Conservancy in its mission to pr
otect and restore thehealth of rivers, lakes, wetlands and forests as well as to educate consumers about the importance of clean, accessible water for people and nature. This includes helping to protect bodies of water like the Delaware River Basin (clean water source to nearly 20 million Americans) by combating nutrient runoff and sedimentation through riparian restoration, and the Sierra Nevada—the source of 65 percent of California’s water supply—where the Conservancy is working to conserve 50,000 acres of critical land to act as a natural reservoir for clear, mountain streams.
Wastewater ManagementWastewater discharges from Colgate’s operations are generally treated on site or by the local municipality prior to discharge to a water body. We continue to work to reduce pollutant loading in our wastewater discharges prior to treatment:
n In Bangpakong, Thailand, a new automatic system implemented in 2015 reduced the amount of pr
oduct 
base that is washed out of our Work in Progress storage tanks during the changeover process. Mike Eaton/The Nature ConservancyPlanet
n At our Sri City plant in India, we are using new water 
tr
eatment chemicals to maintain our cooling towers, 
reducing our discharge load to the local sewage treatment plant. 
n In Cambridge, Ohio, Colgate partners with the Ohio-based renewable ener
gy company, Quasar Energy 
Group, to create energy from the wastewater from our soap manufacturing process. In 2015, Colgate avoided sending over 46,000 tons of wastewater to the landfill, avoiding over $275,000 in processing costs. 
n At Hill’s Pet Nutrition’s LEED-certified facility in Hustopece, Czech Republic, all wastewater effluent is tr
eated to tertiary standards on-site, a catchment 
system is in place to capture and reuse rainwater runoff, and over 60 percent of the site was restored with native or adaptive landscaping.n At our 78-acre Global T echnology Campus in 
Piscataway, New Jersey, Colgate recently completed an upgrade project to expand facility space and update stormwater and groundwater systems while restoring the natural habitat. The updates included upgrading the filtration equipment and stormwater outflow pipework leading to the Raritan River and planting over 800 native trees.
Collaboration and Disclosure
As a way to inform our water stewardship efforts, Colgate engages with leading water experts. This collaboration helps build expertise, align efforts and ensure our water programs meet stakeholder expectations. We are also committed to transparency and have reported publicly on our water stewardship and reduction performance for many years. Colgate is pleased to be one of eight companies globally named to the CDP Water A List in 2015 for leadership in water stewardship and to be a supporter of CDP’s water data visualization efforts. 
Colgate was one of 
eight companies globally 
named to the CDP 
Water A List in 2015 for 
leadership in  
Water Stewardship.Colgate supported development of CDP’s Water Data Visualization tool in 2015.PlanetWorking Towards Zero Landfill Waste
Colgate sites have been reducing, reusing and recycling waste for many years. Our 
seven-step waste-reduction strategy guides our waste reduction efforts around the world:
Colgate’s Working Towards Zero Waste Strategy
7
Share 
SuccessesDocument 
and Verify64
Engage 
Employees1
Define
Zero Waste
Strengthen 
Supplier 
Relationships52
Track
Waste Data
3
Prioritize Waste
Reduction
ActivitiesWorking Towards Zero Waste
Colgate’s Trash to Treasure program encourages Colgate sites to find opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle waste. We utilize automated Landfill Waste Scorecards for all of our sites to help increase the visibility and understanding of our waste reduction opportunities on a real-time basis.PlanetIn 2010, Colgate set a 2015 target to reduce waste sent to landfills from our 
operations by 15 percent per unit of production. Working together with our global manufacturing sites and network of waste management vendors, we have exceeded our goal, reducing landfill waste by over 40 percent in the past five years.
(1) As part 
of our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy, we have committed to go even further. We will halve our manufacturing waste sent to landfill per ton of product compared to 2010, working towards our goal of Zero Waste.Since 2010, Colgate has 
Reduced Landfill Waste 
Per Ton of Production by 
over 40% and reduced 
our Absolute Landfill 
Waste by over 35%.
Global Waste 2010
40%60%Waste Recycled/Reused
Waste to LandfillGlobal Waste 2015
22%78%Waste Recycled/ReusedWaste to LandfillReducing Waste to Landfill*
(1)  Subject to final certification by third-party auditor. *Total waste
Colgate’s Trash to Treasure Awards program provides recognition to sites meeting
our Zero Landfill Waste definition as well those sites that send less than 5 percentof waste to landfills. So far our Hill’s Etten-Leur, Netherlands; Hustopece, CzechRepublic; and Richmond, Indiana sites have received Colgate’s Zero Waste toLandfill award. In addition, nine of our plants in 2015 received Performance Leaderrecognition for sending 5 percent or less of their waste to landfill.
Bureau Veritas has 
validated Colgate’s Zero 
Landfill Waste definition 
and the Zero Waste to 
Landfill status of
Colgate’s sites.
Colgate’s Zero Landfill Waste Definition
No site by-products are sent to a landfill, treatment facility or incineration without beneficial reuse or energy recovery for a full year.
n Excludes wastewater discharges (non-bulk), ash fr om waste-to-energy and 
wastes required to be treated/landfilled by regulation
n A maximum of 20% (by weight) of a site’s total waste may be sent to waste-to-ener
gy
n Episodic construction and demolition wastes are appr opriately managed and 
accounted for separatelyPlanetZero Waste Highlights
n Recognizing that employee engagement 
is an important key to improving r
ecycling 
rates, Colgate conducts Trash to Treasure events at our facilities to better understand the types of trash produced at the site and identify opportunities to reduce waste. Participants roll up their sleeves to dig through the garbage and identify what can be recycled or reused. The site then uses the findings to shape its waste reduction strategy. During a combined Latin America and North America Regional Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) Team meeting held at the Mission Hills, Mexico plant, a Trash to Treasure event was held to identify the percentage of recyclable material being sent to landfill in order to identify opportunities to increase recycling and reduce waste. EOHS representatives from 23 sites in both regions participated along with Mission Hills plant employees. EOHS representatives will bring back insights to their sites in order to continue to find opportunities to improve waste reduction. 
n Our Athens, Greece plant participates in a pr ogram 
with a supplier to refill and reuse boxes multiple times. Our Sri City plant in India participates in a similar program, reusing the cardboard boxes that supply part of our toothbrush packaging. By sending them back for refill by our supplier at least three times, we have reduced container waste by about  33 percent. Sri City is also reusing the bags that hold the propylene used in the molding of toothbrush handles, avoiding an estimated 1,500 kilograms of waste each month. 
Planet
n Colgate has joined Operation Clean Sweep, an international pr ogram 
designed to prevent plastic resin pellet, flake and powder loss and 
help keep this material out of the marine environment. Colgate has pledged to implement Operation Clean Sweep’s program to improve our worksite set-up to prevent and address spills; create and publish internal procedures to achieve zero pellet, flake and powder loss; provide employee training and accountability for spill prevention, containment, cleanup and disposal; review our performance regularly; and comply with all applicable state and local regulations governing pellet, flake and powder containment.n As identified using Colgate’s Pr oduct Sustainability 
Scorecard, several new products in 2015 generated less waste during the manufacturing process than their predecessors. These included Colgate Komplett Freshening toothpaste in Europe, Palmolive Naturals bar soap in Latin America, Ajax Lemon Lime dishwashing liquid in Colgate’s Africa/Eurasia division, Soupline Premium fabric softener in Europe and several new toothbrush offerings in Asia. n Our toothbrush facilities in Asia are actively working towar
ds zero 
waste. Over the past five years, the Sanxiao plant in China and the My Phuoc plant in Vietnam have reduced their landfill waste per ton of product produced by 56 percent and 91 percent respectively. Efforts made in recycling plastic and reducing cafeteria food waste have led to these significant reductions. Better waste management, including training and visual communication, have also contributed to the success.
Planet
Reducing Consumer Waste
We recognize the importance of reducing waste at 
every stage of the product life cycle, including at the end-of-life of our products and packaging. We have committed to improve the recyclability of our packaging, committing resources to enable breakthrough innovation in Oral Care packaging. We have also committed to deliver 100 percent recyclable packaging in our Personal Care, Home Care and Hill’s Pet Nutrition categories. See page 73 for more information on our packaging commitments and progress.
 Building a circular economy in which industrial 
materials and packaging can be r
ecycled and reused 
is an important part of a sustainable future. In addition to commitments for our own packaging, Colgate has committed to work with stakeholders to drive continuous improvement in local recycling systems.
 In 2014, we became one of the initial investors 
in the Closed Loop Fund to develop local recycling infrastructur
e. In the U.S., municipalities often lack 
access to the capital needed to invest in recycling programs and infrastructure. Starting in 2016, the Closed Loop fund will provide zero interest loans to municipalities and below market loans to private companies with a goal to develop infrastructure and improve recycling rates. The aim is to invest over  $100 million by 2020 and divert more than 20 million tons of waste from U.S. landfills. The fund will also seek to co-invest with local private and public investors to magnify its impact. The Closed Loop Fund kicked off its first investment in March 2016 for a Materials Recovery Facility in Chicago, Illinois. The new 40,000 square-foot single-stream recycling system is expected to harvest over 110,000 tons of high-grade residential and commercial single-stream recyclables and to sort, separate and allocate over 20 tons of waste per hour.
 Colgate is also a member of CEMPRE (Compromisso 
Empr
esarial para Reciclagem or Business Commitment 
for Recycling) in Brazil. CEMPRE promotes the concept of integrated management of solid waste, promotes consumer recycling measures and implements educa-tion and awareness programs about the importance of the 3Rs—reducing, reusing and recycling. CEMPRE has played a leading role in the successful waste man-agement model in Brazil of integrating informal waste collectors and cooperatives into the recycling process. Most recently, Colgate became one of the sponsors of the industry-led Give Hands for the Future program to facilitate the recycling of post-consumer packaging through expansion and improvement of collection, sort-ing, processing, valuation and marketing in accordance with Brazil’s National Solid Waste Policy.
Colgate was one of the initial investors in the Closed Loop Fund to develop local recycling 
infrastructure. The Fund kicked off its first investment in March 2016 for a Materials Recovery Facility in Chicago, Illinois. Building Recycling InfrastructurePlanet
To help consumers “upcycle” Colgate products, Colgate and Terracycle® partnered with both Shoprite and Meijer stores 
in 2015 on a recycled playground giveaway. In-store displays drove awareness for recycling through Terracycle® and 
publicized a contest for schools to win a playground made from recycled toothbrushes and toothpaste tubes. Tom’s of 
Maine and Terracycle® also partnered with Hannaford stores in the U.S. to reward a school with a garden made from natural 
care waste collected through the Tom’s of Maine Natural Care Brigade.Recycled Playground ChallengeColgate partners with eco-innovator Terracycle® in the U.S., Mexico, Brazil, Australia, 
Argentina and New Zealand. Terracycle® “upcycles” Colgate’s packaging collected at 
schools, stores and other locations into new and affordable eco-friendly products while 
generating revenue for schools and charities. Terracycle® has collected over two million 
pieces of waste through our programs since we launched our partnership in 2010.PlanetCommitment to Sustainable Buildings
Colgate has ten Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certified 
facilities around the world with over ten additional LEED construction projects underway in the U.S., Latin America, Asia and Europe. We have committed to LEED certification for all of Colgate’s new construction. LEED is an internationally recognized green building certification system developed by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). The buildings reduce Colgate’s environmental impact, reduce the Company’s overall exposure to water and climate change—related issues and offer a healthier, more comfortable work environment.
 In 2016, Colgate was honored with the 2015 Ray Anderson Radical Industrialism
 
Award for exemplifying sustainability with USGBC’s leadership in the evolution of green manufacturing. Sponsored by the Ray C. Anderson Foundation, USGBC presents his namesake award each year to a leader in the manufacturing sector whose commitment to and achievements in sustainability exemplify Ray’s vision, integrating sustainability into the very heart of their company. 
 Colgate has been a member company of the USGBC since 2007. Colgate is 
also a Charter Member of the USGBC LEED User Gr
oup: Industrial Facilities, which 
collaboratively engages in the advancement of LEED and green building practices for the global manufacturing sector. Further information about Colgate’s LEED-certified buildings is available on the USGBC “Green Building Information Gateway” at  
www.gbig.org.Colgate was honored with 
the 2015 Ray Anderson 
Radical Industrialism  
 Award in 2015.
Colgate opened the doors to its latest LEED-certified facility in Sanand,  India, in early 2016. This oral care manufacturing 
facility is Colgate’s first LEED-certified site in India. The plant recycles treated wastewater, has efficient water fixtures, was 
constructed with locally manufactured and extracted materials, has a waste management policy to collect and segregate waste at the source and uses highly-efficient refrigeration systems.LEED-Gold in India 
“Colgate-Palmolive deserves 
every accolade it gets for the exceptional work it is doing. It is exactly the kind of company Ray Anderson sought to encourage, and it makes Colgate-Palmolive a terrific choice to receive the USGBC Leadership Award named for him. Also, at the company’s heart is a culture of care for the planet, and the awareness-building and education it does around water conservation says a great deal about its end-to-end commitment to leadership.”
~Rick Fedrizzi, CEO and 
Founding Chair, USGBCPlanetSpotlight on ... Hill’s Pet Nutrition
nWorking Towards Zero Waste  
Our Hill’s Pet Nutrition manufacturing sites ar
e 
leading the way in reducing landfill waste at 
Colgate; so far three sites have achieved the first Zero Waste to Landfill recognition. Hill’s sites around the world have implemented a sophisticated waste management program in partnership with waste vendors to optimize waste collection, segregation and disposal practices. Hill’s has also conducted Trash to Treasure events at three of its U.S. sites, bring-ing employees together to better understand the types of trash produced at the site and identify opportunities to reduce waste. Hill’s is sharing its waste reduction strategy across the organization to enable the same success at all of our facilities.
nResponsibly Sourced Seafood
Hill’s uses a small amount of seafood and seafood by-pr
oducts as a source of 
protein and nutrition in its pet foods. Hill’s is committed to responsibly and sustainably source seafood. Currently, approximately  66 percent of Hill’s seafood supply is certified by a recognized sustainable sourcing framework. A policy further detailing Hill’s commitment to responsibly source seafood is in development and is expected to be available later in 2016.nLEED-Certified Factories 
Hill’s Emporia, Kansas and Hustopece, Czech Republic man-ufacturing facilities ar
e LEED-certified. At the Emporia plant, 
75% of construction waste was diverted from the landfill, 30% of building materials used were made from recycled content, and the building uses 25% less energy compared to a con-ventional plant. At the Hustopece plant, 90% of construction waste was diverted from the landfill, 68% of building materials came from within 500 miles of the plant and the building uses 20% less energy than a conventional plant.
nEnergy Treasure Hunts
Hill’s is conducting Energy Treasure Hunts at all of its facilities, wher
e 30 to 50 participants 
visit all areas of the plant, searching for energy waste and brainstorming opportunities for continuous improvement. In 2015, Hill’s completed Treasure Hunts at its Bowling Green, Kentucky and Emporia, Kansas plants. Since 2014, Hill’s Treasure Hunters have identified over 240 potential energy-saving projects with the potential to save over  $3 million annually in energy costs.
Planetpage 116
It is estimated that over the past 50 years, about half of 
the world’s original forests have been lost. This has led not just to biodiversity loss and social instability, but also furthered climate change. Deforestation of High Conservation Value and High Carbon Stock forests, such as tropical rainforests and peatlands, has been especially devastating to endangered animal species and has led to significant release of carbon emissions.PlanetOur Commitment to No Deforestation
In 2014, Colgate issued a Policy on No Deforestation 
to support a vision for a future without deforestation. Colgate is working to meet our goal of no deforestation by 2020. In 2015, we also joined in the CDP and We Mean Business Coalition’s “Road to Paris 2015” commitments, committing to remove commodity-driven deforestation from all supply chains by 2020.
 Deforestation is one of Colgate’s Key Sustainability 
Issues identified on page 7. It is an important issue for our business fr
om both an environmental and 
reputational risk standpoint. The commitments in our policy will help us to manage the deforestation risks in our supply chain for pulp and paper, palm oil and derivatives, soy and soy oil, and beef tallow.
 Colgate is committed to the following general 
requirements for all for
est commodities including:
n No deforestation of High Carbon Stock (HCS) forest(1)
n No deforestation of High Conservation Value (HCV)   
 areas (2)
n No use of fire for land clearance 
n No new development on peatlands, regardless of 
 depth 
n No exploitation of people or local communities (3)(4)
Below are highlights and updates on our progr ess.
Pulp and Paper
Much of Colgate’s packaging material utilizes wood-derived or paper-based products. Over 90 percent of our pulp and paper is certified or is in the process of being certified as being sourced from responsibly managed forests. We have set packaging targets for 2020, including increasing the recycled content of our packaging to 50 percent (see page 73). Currently, approximately 37 percent of Colgate’s packaging materials by weight globally come from recycled sources. We have also taken steps to ensure compliance with the U.S. Lacey Act, which requires all product and disposable packaging to be comprised of legally-sourced wood or other plant-based material.
 We give prefer
ence for verification of pulp and 
paper supply to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification standards, but utilize other respected certification schemes as geography and availability necessitate. As part of this commitment, Colgate will continue our long-standing strategy to increase the use of recycled materials as well as our efforts to optimize the use of other packaging materials.
Palm Oil, Palm Kernel Oil and Derivatives
Palm oil is one of the most widely traded vegetable oils in the world and is used in many food and household products. Over 85 percent of the world’s palm oil comes from Indonesia and Malaysia, where land is sometimes converted from forest to palm plantations, resulting in health issues, greenhouse gas emissions and impacts on biodiversity and social concerns. Colgate uses palm oil, palm kernel oil (PKO) and its derivatives in some of our soap products, toothpastes, antiperspirants, deodorants and household cleaners.
Milestones
We have recognized the need to source responsibly produced palm oil since 2007, when Colgate became a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Since then, we have taken action to responsibly source palm oil in the following ways:
n Developed a cross-commodity Policy on No Defor-estation, highlighting palm oil as one of four com-modities to tar
get for implementation (March 2014)
n Began partnership with The Forest Trust (TFT) to map our supply chain, engage our suppliers and drive transformation in the supply chain (May 2015)
n Identified all palm oil derivatives in our supply chain and covered volumes with GreenPalm certificates (2015)
(1) Forests as defined by the HCS Approach developed by GAR, Greenpeace and TFT 
(2) Areas as defined by the HCV Network Common Guidance
(3) As guided by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, regulatory requirements and International Labor Organization standards
(4) Provide respect to legal or customary land tenure rights and the rights of indigenous and local communities by providing free and prior informed consent (FPIC)
See Colgate's Policy on No Deforestation and Policy 
on Responsible and Sustainable Sourcing of Palm 
Oils for the latest information on our progress.Planetn Communicated our policy to our direct suppliers 
(ongoing)
n Requested information on traceability to the mill level from 100 per
cent of our direct suppliers of palm oil 
and PKO (ongoing)
n Engaged direct suppliers of palm oil and PKO to encourage incr
eased transparency and to  
understand their plans for transformation of their supply chain (ongoing)
n Committed to phase out GreenPalm certificates for palm oil and PKO (ongoing)
n Committed to procur e 100% mass balance oils in all 
geographies (ongoing)
n Announced our support of Indonesia President Joko Widodo’
s policy to protect intact and restore 
degraded peatlands through the new peatlands Restoration Agency (Badan Restorasi Gambut, BRG)
TraceabilityColgate buys palm oil and PKO (excluding derivatives) for production in the U.S., Latin America, Thailand, Tur-key and South Africa. We have engaged 100 percent of our direct suppliers of palm oil and PKO to understand the source of their supply, down to the mill level. By tracing palm oil back to known mills, we can better un-derstand the social and environmental practices at the plantations and smallholder farms the mill sources from and collaborate with our suppliers to help transform the supply chain.
 The percentages in the table below r
eflect the per -
centage of palm oil and PKO for each purchasing mar-ket that can be traced back to the origin mill. Overall, we can identify the mill sources for 71 percent of Colgate’s PKO supply and 54 percent of our palm oil supply, by volume. Being able to identify the mill sources for our palm supply allows us to prioritize upstream suppliers for engagement based on associated risk. It also allows us to seek further information and respond if concerns arise regarding stakeholders within our supply chain.
 Colgate sees our initial traceability per
centages 
as opportunities for improvement. A number of our suppliers were new to the request for traceability and some of them were therefore less receptive to our initial request. We continue to pursue visibility of the remaining untraced volumes, which are primarily purchased by our operations in Thailand, the Middle East and Africa. Our work with these suppliers has been to communicate to them our values of responsible sourcing and the role that traceability will play in allowing us to support key stakeholders to improve their practices on the ground.
 We have compiled our palm oil derivatives volume 
and supply data. Within the next six months we will develop an action plan to prioritize and engage our derivatives suppliers on their traceability and r
esponsible sourcing practices.
CertificationAs an interim step in the transformation journey, Colgate has chosen to procure 100 percent certified palm oil, PKO and palm oil derivatives. Seventy-seven percent of our palm oil and PKO is physically certified. The balance of our palm oil and PKO, as well as palm oil derivatives, are covered by GreenPalm certificates.
 As noted above, we are committed to phase out the 
use of Gr
eenPalm certificates.
Colgate Global Traceability*
Market PKO Traceability PO Traceability  Overall Traceability
United States  98% N/A 98%
Latin America  71% 94% 81%
Thailand  39% 57% 54%
Europe, Middle East, Africa  36% 46% 44%
Weighted T
otal  71% 54% 61%
*As of February 1, 2016PlanetNext Steps
We are conducting in-depth conversations with our suppliers regarding the robustness of their own responsible sourcing policies and implementation plans, or their plans to achieve compliance with our policy if they lack their own. We will continue discussions to encourage greater transparency with the suppliers who have yet to provide complete information on traceability to the mill level. With the traceability information we have and will continue to receive, we will be able to make informed decisions about which producing suppliers to support in transformation. Through our palm oil partnership with TFT, we will be able to contribute to supplier assessments and training in order to have a positive, tangible impact on the practices on the ground within our supply chain. This direct transformation work is in addition to monitoring and ensuring progress of our suppliers’ own efforts at transformation.
 
 We will also develop a longer term plan to ensur
e our 
palm oil supply conforms to the expectations outlined in our policy by 2020. As the next step on our journey towards sustainable palm oil, we will: 
n Work with suppliers and external expert or
ganizations to identify potential social or 
environmental risk in our supply chain 
n Achieve full traceability of our palm oil and PKO supply chains back to the mills by year-end 2016 and to the plantation by year
-end 2020
n Set additional milestones for traceability and responsible and sustainable sour
cing of palm oil 
derivatives through 2020 based on mapping that  was completed in 2015 
n Purchase increasing volumes of physical Certified Sustainable Palm Oil and PKO each year with a goal to sour
ce 100% by 2017
n Purchase GreenPalm Certificates to cover the r
emaining percentage of our requirements, phasing 
out the need for the purchase 
n Communicate the expectation that suppliers publish concession maps
n Measure supplier’s conformance to our policy based on thir
d party verificationSoy
Soy, or soy oil, is an ingredient used in certain Colgate products. Colgate sources soy and soy oil from the United States and Brazil.
 Colgate supports efforts such as the Soy Moratorium 
that help minimize deforestation fr
om soy expansion 
and increase transparency in the soy sector. We are also committed to:
n Mapping our soy usage and geography of supply
n Working with our suppliers in Brazil and any other high-risk ar
eas to assess the availability of soy that 
does not contribute to deforestation and will increase our purchases of soy from these sources
n By 2017, procuring soy and soy derivatives that ar e 
not linked to deforestation, verifying this through independent third-party verification and monitoring
Tallow
Tallow is a key ingredient in bar soap production and is a cattle by-product. Colgate sources tallow from suppliers in North America, Latin America and Europe.
 In Brazil, there ar
e concerns that rising demand for 
beef as a food source is prompting farmers to clear part of the Amazon rainforest for cattle ranching. Currently, we require Brazilian suppliers to certify that they are following the environmental and social requirements set forth by the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA). We are also working to minimize the amount of tallow purchased from high-risk areas. We will continue to work with our suppliers to minimize the amount of tallow purchased from high-risk areas with a goal of eliminating such purchases as soon as possible. Moving forward, we will:
n Collaborate with industry and stakeholder groups such as the Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef to work towar
ds zero deforestation in this area 
n By 2017, requir e all applicable suppliers to be in 
conformance with the Minimum Criteria for Industrial Scale Cattle Operations in the Brazilian Amazon Biome set in 2009PlanetNature Partnerships
Through partnerships with organizations like The Nature Conservancy and the Keystone Science School, we are 
helping to support programs that help nature and people alike as well as promoting environmental education.
Highlights
n Colgate has supported The Wildlife Conservation Society 
(WCS) in New York City for over 25 years. Thr
ough our 
sponsorship, Colgate people in the New York metro area have occasions to visit the network of WCS zoos and aquariums free of charge.n Colgate was honored by EcoHealth Alliance at their 2016 Annual Benefit for our dedica
-
tion to sustainability and to preserving vital resources for generations to come. Eco-Health Alliance is a global, nonprofit organi-zation dedicated to protecting wildlife and safeguarding human health from the emer-gence of disease. The organization develops ways to combat the effects of damaged ecosystems on human and wildlife health.
For more information on our water partnerships with The Nature Conservancy and Water For People, see pages 103 and 105 to 106.“We are thrilled to honor our first Fortune 500 Company that aligns 
with EcoHealth Alliance’s innovative programs aimed at improving the 
health of people, animals and ecosystems. Colgate-Palmolive’s  
sustainability practices are forwar
d-thinking, and socially responsible.”
~Dr. Peter Daszak, Pr
esident, EcoHealth Alliancen Colgate sponsors teachers to attend the Key Issues Institute: 
Bringing Environmental Issues to the Classr
oom professional 
development program in Colorado, U.S., a program of the Keystone Science School. Teachers come from areas where Colgate has operations. The program gives teachers the skills to use innovative and engaging ideas and methods to investigate current environmental issues with their students. In 2015, Colgate sponsored four teachers from Kansas and Indiana who left with curriculum materials, lab equipment and a new professional network of support from fellow teachers and Key Issues staff.
Environmental Management
It is Colgate’s worldwide policy to manufacture and market our products and operate our facilities so that we conform to, and often exceed, applicable environmental, health and safety rules and regulations. Our Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) standards, including the Management Systems Standard, define environmental performance expectations for Colgate facilities. All Colgate facilities have a fully implemented EOHS Management System, covering a wide range of categories, including energy, water and waste management. Colgate’s manufacturing environmental performance goals are included in our Global Supply Chain annual objectives, which are cascaded to site-level facility managers, energy managers and EOHS managers.
 Colgate sites are expected to self-assess conformance with our standar
ds at an eighteen-month interval. 
Corporate audits are conducted every three to five years, closure progress is reported quarterly and verification audits are conducted to provide closure assurance. Colgate has also launched a third-party Ethical Compliance Audit program for Colgate manufacturing facilities, using the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol. The audit protocol investigates criteria covering freedom of association, child labor, hazards, health and safety, wages and benefits, working hours, discrimination as well as environmental and business ethics matters. A corrective action plan is in place to remedy any potential areas of concern.
For more information on supply chain risk, see page 44. AIM-PROGRESS – Colgate is an active member of AIM-PROGRESS, serving on its leadership 
team. AIM-PROGRESS is a global industry forum to promote responsible sourcing practicesand sustainable production systems. It is a global initiative supported and sponsored by the European Brands Association in Europe and the Grocery Manufacturers Association in North America.
Alliance for a Cavity-Free Future (ACFF) – As a founding sponsor of the Alliance for a Cavity-
Free Future (ACFF), Colgate has joined a worldwide group of experts seeking to promote integrated clinical and public health action in order to stop caries initiation and progression and to move towards a cavity-free future for all age groups.
American Cleaning Institute (ACI) – Colgate has signed on to the American Cleaning Institute’s 
Charter for Sustainable Cleaning, which requires companies to have systems in place for continual assessment, review and improvement of sustainability performance, including raw material selection, resource use and occupational health and safety, at every stage of the product life cycle. We also participate in their sustainability metrics program.
American Dental Association (ADA) – Colgate partners with the American Dental Association 
Foundation each year to sponsor the “Give Kids A Smile
®” program, providing oral health 
education and free preventive and restorative care to children from low-income families. Each year, approximately 350,000 underserved children benefit from more than 1,500 events thanks to the efforts of 40,000 or more annual volunteers.
American Institute for Packaging and the Environment (AMERIPEN) – Colgate joined with other 
companies in 2011 to found this organization, which is focused on coordinating the industry’s environmental packaging efforts.
CDP – Colgate has reported our carbon emissions to CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) 
since 2004. We now respond to the CDP Climate, CDP Water and CDP Forest Disclosures and survey our suppliers through the CDP Supply Chain Program.
CEMPRE – Colgate has recently joined Compromisso Empresarial para Reciclagem (Business 
Commitment for Recycling) (CEMPRE) in Brazil as a member corporation. CEMPRE promotes the concept of integrated management of solid waste, promotes consumer recycling measures and implements education and awareness programs about the importance of the “3Rs,” reducing, reusing and recycling program. 
Closed Loop Fund – In 2014, Colgate became one of the initial investors in the Closed 
Loop Fund to develop local recycling infrastructure. This fund provides zero interest loans to municipalities and below market loans to private companies, with a goal to develop infrastructure and improve recycling rates. The aim is to invest $100 million in the next five years and divert 27 million tons of waste from U.S. landfills. 
Conference Board Chief EH&S Officers’ Council – Colgate participates in the Conference Board 
Chief EH&S Officers’ Council. Our membership enables peer-to-peer benchmarking of leading EH&S strategies, practices and processes.
Another important element of Colgate’s sustainability strategy is our use of external partnerships 
to complement our strong internal capability. Colgate has many such partnerships with a broad array of organizations, including suppliers, research institutions, universities, industry and non-profit organizations. Here are just some of Colgate’s sustainability partners:Partnerships
Consumer Goods Forum – Colgate’s Chairman, President and CEO is on the Board of 
Directors of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), and we participate in the CGF Sustainability Steering Team and Social Steering Team. We support CGF’s collective commitments related to sustainability and climate change, including the effort to help achieve zero net deforestation by 2020.
Environmental Defense Fund Climate Corps – Colgate hosted a Climate Corps fellow in 
2015 to help evaluate the economic feasibility of installing fuel cell technology at its Global Technology Center facility in Piscataway, New Jersey. In addition, the fellow worked to develop a management strategy guide related to electric vehicle charging stations. Colgate will again host a fellow in 2016 focusing on quantification of sustainable building performance.
The Forest Trust (TFT) –
 Colgate is a palm oil member of The Forest Trust (TFT), which is 
working with Colgate to meet our palm traceability and responsible sourcing commitments.
Global Child Dental Fund (GCDF) – Colgate is the founding and principal sponsor of this group, 
which builds on the achievements of the United Kingdom government-funded Global Child Dental Health Taskforce program. We established this group in partnership with the World Health Organization with the goal of eradicating dental cavities in children globally by 2026.
Grocery Manufacturers Association (GMA) – As a member of the Grocery Manufacturers 
Association, Colgate contributed to the development of the Smart Label
TM initiative. This 
platform will enable consumers to obtain additional details about products by scanning a QR code or doing an online search to reach a landing page with information on ingredients.
International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Products (AISE) – Colgate is 
a charter member of the AISE flagship initiative, the Charter for Sustainable Cleaning. The AISE Charter is a comprehensive program that ensures continual improvement in the sustainability of our home care products, covering production, design and consumption. 
National Dental Association (NDA) – Colgate’s commitment to improve children’s oral health in 
the community includes a long-term partnership with the National Dental Association (NDA), the world’s largest minority oral health association.
The Nature Conservancy – Colgate is working with The Nature Conservancy to raise awareness 
of water issues in the U.S. and encourage consumers to conserve this vital resource.
Red Cross – Colgate provides financial support to the Red Cross in the event of large scale 
disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes. We also donate personal care products for those who have been displaced from their homes. Additionally, Colgate matches employee donations to the Red Cross through our Matching Gift Program.
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) – Colgate is a member of this group, which is 
working on solutions for the use and growth of sustainable palm oil.
Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) – Colgate is a member of the RTRS, an internationally 
recognized forum working to develop and promote a standard of sustainability for the production, processing, trading and use of soy.
Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) – Colgate is a Global Partner in 
the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry. Colgate supports SETAC’s mission to develop principles and practices for protection, enhancement and management of the environ-ment by providing a forum where professionals can exchange ideas and discuss environmental challenges, regulations, research and development and environmental education.
PartnershipsStarlight Children’s Foundation® – For more than 26 years, Colgate has been a sponsor 
of Starlight Children’s Foundation®, a leading global charity that partners with experts to 
improve the life and health of kids and families around the world. Since 1989, Colgate has 
contributed more than $12.1 million to support programs such as Starlight® Fun Center® 
mobile entertainment units and iPad tablet technology in hospitals in the U.S. to offer fun and distraction for pediatric patients. 
The Sustainability Consortium – Colgate is an active member of the Home and Personal Care 
Sector of the Sustainability Consortium, which is committed to improving product sustainability. Colgate is also on the Corporate Advisory Council of this group.
Terracycle
® – Over two million people around the world are collecting used Colgate packaging to 
be made into new products by Terracycle®. 
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR – Colgate is an active partner of the EPA’s industrial sector and has 
been named an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for six years in a row. Additionally, 72 percent of Colgate’s manufacturing sites have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge  for Industry recognition.
U.S. EPA GREEN POWER PARTNER – In 2014, Colgate joined the U.S. EPA’s Green Power 
Partnership, which encourages the voluntary use of green power to reduce the environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity use. Partners benefit from the use of green power, while supporting the development of renewable energy in the United States. Colgate was named to the National Top 100 list in 2015, representing the largest green power users within the Partnership. 
U.S. EPA SmartWay – In the U.S., Colgate-Palmolive and Hill’s Pet Nutrition are U.S. EPA 
SmartWay Transport Partners. The program helps the freight transportation sector improve supply chain efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) – Colgate has been a member company of the USGBC 
since 2007. Colgate is also a Charter Member of the USGBC LEED User Group: Industrial Facilities, which actively engages in the advancement of green building practices for manufacturing sites.
Walden Asset Management – Colgate consulted with Walden Asset Management to develop our 
new climate change commitments and our 2015 to 2020 Strategy.
Water For People – Colgate launched our partnership with Water For People in 2013. Colgate’s 
contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program helped them to reach nearly 100,000 people in 2015 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education in Guatemala, Peru and India.
World Resources Institute (WRI) – Colgate is a member of WRI’s Corporate Consultative Group 
to share knowledge and stay informed on key environmental issues. Colgate also uses the WRI Aqueduct tool to assess a variety of water-related risks in our operations, including water stress, drought and flood.
PartnershipsKey Performance Indicators
People  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015
Approximate number of employees  35,800  34,700  36,000  36,600  38,100  39,200 38,600  37,700  37,400  37,700  37,900
% Minority officials and 
managers (U.
S. EEOC data)  24.6 24.6 24.9 27.2 27.2 28.9 32.11  31.0 31.0 33.0 34.0
% Minorities in workforce  
 (U.S. EEOC data)  27.9 28.9 28.6 29.5 29.0 28.8 32.03  30.0 30.0 31.0 32.0
% Women officials and managers  29.3 30.6 32.0 32.9 36.2 36.6 38.18  33.0 34.0 35.0 35.0
% Women in workforce  34.0 36.1 37.0 38.9 40.7 40.7 39.37  39.0 39.0 38.0 37.0
Total recor
dable rate (1) 0.72 0.74 0.57 0.46 0.49 0.49 0.47 0.40 0.38 0.35 0.32
Lost workday case rate (2) 0.19 0.23 0.19 0.12 0.12 0.12 0.11 0.08 0.10 0.10 0.09
Safety notices of violation (3) 1 0 0 5 2 0 2 0 3 0 0
Safety fines paid ($) (4) 300 0 0 16,899  7,800  0 4,032  0 250 7,800  0
Children reached thr
ough Bright  
Smiles, Bright Futures since  
 1991 (millions)  650 700 750 800 850
Annual Code of Conduct training 
 (%) (5) 100 100 100 100
Supplier Responsible Sourcing 
Assessment participation (%) (6) 46 57 62 73
Performance  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015
Global Sales ($MM)  11,397  12,238  13,790  15,330  15,327  15,564  16,734  17,085  17,420  17,277  16,034
Global charitable contributions — 
cash ($MM) (7) 7.33 7.06 8.31 9.68 20.94  17.81  17.60  32.0 23.58  23.81  23.25
Global charitable contributions — 
in-kind ($MM) (8) n/a n/a n/a n/a 26.33  21.85  20.05  32.0 10.38  5.61 5.02
(1) The number of occupational injuries and illnesses that require medical treatment per 200,000 work-hours.
(2) The number of occupational injuries and illnesses causing employees to be absent from work per 200,000 work-hours.
(3) A violation or citation issued by a governmental authority with jurisdiction.
(4) Fines associated with Safety Notices of Violations (NOVs).
(5) Salaried and clerical people participating in annual training on and certification of the Company’s Code of Conduct.
 (6) At-risk suppliers who have undergone a responsible sourcing self-assessment and/or third-party audit.  2015 target of 70 percent.
(7) Cash and in-kind contributions to charitable organizations, including spending for the Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program in Colgate’s 20 largest subsidiaries 
(by oral care sales).  
(8) In-kind and product donations by Colgate to charitable organizations.Key Performance Indicator s
Planet  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015
Energy use efficiency 
(kWh x 1000/ton of product) (9) 0.458  0.431  0.422  0.415  0.403  0.411  0.396  0.390  0.379  0.370  0.358
CO2 emissons (metric tons x 1000) (9) 699 692 688 659 636 663 661 640 646 631 589
CO2 emissions intensity  
(kg/ton of product) 152 142 139 136 133 136 132 127 124 121 112
Water use efficiency 
(m3/ton of product)  1.507  1.324  1.277  1.216  1.146  1.091  1.058  1.054  1.031  1.016  1.008
Wastewater Chemical  
Oxygen Demand 
(kg/ton of product) (9) 3.01 3.04 2.93 2.68 2.63 2.94 2.77 2.83 2.76 2.72 2.92
Environmental Incidents (10) 1 2 2 2 2 1 3 0 0 0 0
Environmental Notices of Violation (11) 3 0 8 8 7 2 5 5 5 8 2
Environmental fines paid ($) (12) 0 0 26,200  9,057  1,000  0 50,094  1,065  38,582 128,600  3,300
Certified palm oil (%) 0 100 100 100
Certified palm kernel oil (%)  0 94 100 100 
Certified palm oil and palm kernel 
oil derivatives (%)   100
CDP Supply Chain Program Climate 
 Disclosure Participation (%) (13) 37  39
CDP Supply Chain Program Water 
Disclosure Participation (%) (13) 27  33 
(9) Data varies slightly from previous reporting due to boundary changes and updated r eporting methodology.
(10) Represents site-related spills or accidental releases that reach a water body, groundwater or soils or affect a third party. As of 2012, significant spills are reported, 
which are defined as any spills that are included in our financial statement. 
(11) An environmental violation or citation issued by a governmental authority with jurisdiction.
(12)  Fines associated with Environmental Notices of Violations (NOVs).
 (13) Percentage by spend of Tier I suppliers and suppliers of carbon or water intensive materials, including our largest raw material suppliers and contract 
manufacturers, responding to the CDP Supply Chain Program Climate or Water Disclosures.This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.  
GRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report  Other
Indicator  Description  Reference or Dir
ect Answer  Reference
General Standard Disclosur es
Strategy and Analysis
G4-1  Statement from the most senior  Message from Ian Cook (p. 3) — 
decision-maker of the organization
G4-2  Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities  Throughout Report,  An
nual Report on Form 10-K
Sustainability Management (p. 6)
Organizational Profile  
G4-3  Name of the organization  Company Profile (p. 4) —
G4-4  Primary brands, products, services  Company Profile (p. 
4) Annual Report on
 Form 10-K
G4-5  Headquarters location  Company Profile (p. 
4) —
G4-6  Country operations  Company Profile (p. 
4) An
nual Report on Form 10-K
G4-7  Nature of ownership and legal form  Company Profile (p. 
4) An
nual Report on Form 10-K
G4-8  Markets served  Company Profile (p. 
4) An
nual Report on Form 10-K
G4-9  Scale of the reporting or
ganization  Company Profile (p. 
4) An
nual Report on Form 10-K
G4-11  Percentage of total employees cover
ed Approximately 24%  —
by collective bargaining agr
eements  
G4-12  Significant changes during the reporting period  
 — An
nual Report on Form 10-K
G4-15  Externally developed charters, principles to which  Partnerships (p. 121) —
organization subscribes or endorses
G4-16  Memberships of associations Partnerships (p. 121) —
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17  Entities included in the organization’ s consolidated  — An nual Report on Form 10-K
financial statements or equivalent documents
G4-18  Process for defining r
eport content  Sustainability Management (p. 6) —
G4-19-21  Material aspects  Sustainability Management (p. 6) —Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) IndexGRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report  Other
Indicator  Description  Reference or Dir
ect Answer  Reference
Stakeholder Engagement  
G4-24  Stakeholders  Sustainability Management (p. 8) —
G4-27  Key topics and concerns raised thr ough  Sustainability Management (p. 7) —
stakeholder engagement and response
Report Profile  
G4-28  Reporting period  About This Report (p. 2) —
G4-29  Date of most recent r eport  — ColgatePalmolive.com/
Sustainability 
G4-30  Reporting cycle  — ColgatePalmolive.com/
Sustainability
G4-31  Contact point for questions about report  csr@colpal.com  —
Governance   
G4-34  Governance structur e Sustainability Management (p. 8) ColgatePalmolive.com -  
Governance
G4-38  Composition of highest governance body and committees  — ColgatePalmolive.com -  
Governance
G4-39  Chairman as executive officer  — ColgatePalmolive.com -  
Governance
Ethics and Integrity
G4-56  Organization’ s values, principles, standards  Company Profile (p.  5),  — 
and norms of behavior  People (p. 26) 
Specific Standard Disclosur es
 Economic
Disclosure on  Economic Performance, Market Presence,  Company Profile ( p. 5),  Annual Report on Form 10-K  
Management  Procur
ement Practices  People (p
. 26),  
Approach  Performance (
p. 60)  
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed  Company Profile (
p. 5), Annual Report on Form 10-K
Performance (
p. 60)
EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities  Planet (p.86, 95)  CDP Climate Change, 
due to climate change  CDP Water
EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations  — Annual Report on Form 10-K
EC4 Significant financial assistance received fr
om government  — Annual Report on Form 10-KGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) IndexGRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report  Other
Indicator  Description  Reference or Dir
ect Answer  Reference
 Environmental
Disclosure on  Materials, Energy , Water, Biodiversity, Emissions,  Performance -  Product  —
Management  Effluents and Waste, Pr
oducts and Services,  Sustainability (p
. 65), 
Approach  Compliance, Transport, Overall  Planet (p
. 84) 
EN2 Percentage of materials used that ar
e Performance -
 Packaging  —
recycled input materials  (p
. 73) 
EN3 Energy consumption within the or
ganization  Planet -
 Our Climate Commitment  CDP Climate Change  
(p
. 87), Key Performance 
Indicators  (p. 124)  
EN4 Energy consumption outside of the or
ganization  Planet -
 Our Climate Commitment  CDP Climate Change 
(p. 87)
EN5 Energy Intensity  Planet -
 Our Climate Commitment  CDP Climate Change 
(p
. 87), Key Performance 
Indicators (p
. 124)
EN6 Reduction of energy consumption  Planet -
 Our Climate Commitment  CDP Climate Change  
(p
. 87), Key Performance 
Indicators (p
. 124)  
EN8 Total water withdrawal by sour
ce — CDP Water
EN9 Water sour
ces significantly affected by withdrawal of water  — CDP Water
EN15  Direct gr
eenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1)  Planet -
 Our Climate Commitment  CDP Climate Change 
(p
. 87), Key Performance 
Indicators (p
. 124)
EN16  Energy indir
ect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2)  Planet -
 Our Climate Commitment  CDP Climate Change
(p. 87
) 
EN17  Other indirect gr
eenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3)  Planet -
 Our Climate Commitment  CDP Climate Change
(p. 87
) 
EN18  Greenhouse gas emissions intensity  Planet -
 Our Climate Commitment  CDP Climate Change 
(p
. 87), Key Performance 
Indicators (p
. 124)
EN19  Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions  Planet -
 Our Climate Commitment  CDP Climate Change 
(p
. 87), Key Performance 
Indicators (p
. 124)
EN22  Water dischar
ge by quality and destination  Key Performance Indicators  CDP Water 
(p. 1
24)
EN23  Amount of waste by type/destination  Planet -
 Reducing Waste (p. 108)  —
EN24  Number/volume of significant spills  Key Performance Indicators  — 
(p. 1
24)
EN27  Extent of impact mitigation of environmental  Performance -
 Product — 
impacts of products and services  Sustainability (p . 65),  
Planet (p
. 84)
EN29  Incidents/fines for non-compliance with  Key Performance Indicators  — 
environmental r
egulations  (p
. 124)
EN30  Significant environmental impacts  Planet -
 Our Climate Commitment  CDP Climate Change  
of transportation or logistics  (p
. 87)  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) IndexGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
GRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report  Other
Indicator  Description  Reference or Dir
ect Answer  Reference
Labor Practices and Decent Work
Disclosure on  Employment, Labor/Management Relations,  People (p. 26)  —
Management  Occupational Health and Safety, T
raining and Education, 
Approach  Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Equal Remuneration  
LA5 Notice period regar
ding operational changes  Comply with regulations  —
LA6 Health and safety data  People - Health and Safety (p. 36),
 
Key Performance  —
Indicators (p. 124)  
LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee  People - Supporting Colgate People  — 
(p. 28)
LA10  Programs for skills management/lifelong lear
ning People - Supporting Colgate People  — 
(p. 28)  
LA12  Employee and governance body demographics  Pe
ople (p. 26), Key Performance  —
Indicators (p
. 124)
Human Rights
Disclosure on  Investment and procur ement practices, non-discrimination,  Pe ople - Business Integrity, Code of Conduct; 
Management  freedom of association and collective bar
gaining, child  Social Responsibility (p. 4
3) Third Party Code  
Approach  labor, pr
evention of forced and compulsory labor, security of Conduct
practices, indigenous rights, assessment, remediation  
 Society
Disclosure on  Local communities, corruption, public policy, Pe ople - Business Integrity (p. 43)  Code of Conduct; 
Management  anti-competitive behavior, compliance  ColgatePalmolive.com - 
 Appr
oach  Governance
SO6 Political contributions to political parties or candidates  $0 Code of Conduct;  
ColgatePalmolive.com - 
Governance
Product Responsibility
Disclosure on  Customer health and safety, pr oduct and service  Performance -  Product Safety  Product Safety
Management  labeling, marketing communications, customer  and Quality (p
. 66) Research Policy
Approach  privacy, compliance  
PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction  Performance - Consumer  Consumer Affairs
Driven Innovation (p
. 63), 
Partnering with Customers (p
. 81)Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
The following is provided to supplement 
certain financial measures discussed in this report both as reported (on a GAAP basis) and excluding the impact of certain items (Non-GAAP) as explained below. Management believes these Non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information to investors regarding the performance of the Company’s ongoing operations. The Company uses these financial measures internally in its budgeting process and as a factor in determining compensation. While the Company believes that these Non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company’s business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP . In addition, these Non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies. (Dollars in Millions  Gross Pr ofit Diluted  
Except Per Share Amounts)  Margin  EPS 
 2015  
As Reported (GAAP)  58.6%  $1.52  
Venezuela Accounting Change (1)– 1.16
2012 Restructuring Pr
ogram (2)0.1% 0.20  
Sale of Non-Core Product Lines (3) – (0.13)
V
enezuela Remeasurements (4)– 0.02
For
eign Competition Law Matter (5)– 0.02 
Foreign T
ax Matter (6)– 0.02
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.7%  $2.81
2014  
As Reported (GAAP)  58.5%  $2.36
2012 Restructuring Program (2)0.2% 0.23
V
enezuela Remeasurements (4)– 0.23
For
eign Competition Law Matters (5)– 0.04
Mexico Land Sale (7)– –
For
eign Tax Matter (6)– 0.07
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.7%  $$2.93
2013  
As Reported (GAAP)  58.6%  $2.38 
2012 Restructuring Pr
ogram (2)0.2% 0.30  
Venezuela Remeasurements (4)– 0.12
For
eign Competition Law Matter (5) – 0.03
Mexico Land Sale (7)– 0.01
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.8%  $2.84
2012  
As Reported (GAAP)  58.1%  $2.57 
2012 Restructuring Pr
ogram (2)– 0.07  
Mexico Land Sale (7) 0.2%  0.02
Business Realignment Initiatives (8)– 0.02
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.3%  $2.68
2011
As Reported (GAAP)  57.3%  $2.47 
For
eign Competition Law Matter (5)– 0.02  
Mexico Land Sale (7)– 0.01  
Business Realignment Initiatives (8)0.3% 0.15  
Sale of Non-Core Product Lines (3) – (0.14)
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  57.6%  $2.51 Note: Per share amounts have been restated to reflect the 
2013 two-for-one stock split.
(1) In 2015, the Company recorded a $1,058 million after-tax charge resulting from a change in accounting for the Company’s Venezuelan operations.
(2) Charges relate to the 2012 Restructuring Program that began in the fourth quarter of 2012.
(3) In 2015, the Company recorded a $120 million after-tax gain on the sale of its laundry detergent business in the South Pacific. In 2011, the Company recorded a $135 million aftertax gain on the sale of its laundry detergent business in Colombia.
(4) In 2015 and 201 4, the Company recorded $22 million and 
$214 million, respectively, of after-tax remeasurement 
charges related to effective devaluations in Venezuela. In 2013, the Company recorded a $111 million after-tax charge related to a devaluation in Venezuela.
(5) Represents charges for a competition law matter in  Australia in 2015 and competition law matters in Europe in 2011, 2013 and 201 4.
(6) Represents income tax charges related to foreign tax matters.
(7) Represents costs related to the sale of land in Mexico.
(8) Represents costs associated with various global business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives.Giving the World Reasons to Smile
page 132
100%RECYCLED
100%
POST-CONSUMER100%
POST-CONSUMER
300ParkAvenue New York, NY 10022- 7499300ParkAvenue New York, NY 10022- 7499
300ParkAvenue New York, NY 10022- 7499300 P ark Avenue  New York, NY 10022- 7499
© 2016 Colgate-Palmolive Company  |  Design by Robert Webster Inc. (RWI), www.rwidesign.com  |  Printing by Universal Wilde
*For an average family size of 2.5 membersColgate-Palmolive is proud to support The Nature Conservancy. Learn how you can help at nature.org.