Contents
Our Company
3
Welcome letter from Noel Wallace
5
Welcome letter from Ann Tracy
6
Colgate’s 2025 Sustainability & Social Impact
Mission
7
2015 to 2020 Strategy
9
2020 Sustainability Commitments Progress
12
UN Global Compact and Sustainable
Development Goals
13
Corporate Governance
17
Sustainability Management
People
22
Supporting Colgate People
25
Employee Health and Wellness
26
Our Commitment to Universal Human Rights
27
Diversity, Equity  & Inclusion
29
Equal Pay
30
Supplier Diversity
31
Environment, Health & Safety
36
Responsible Sourcing
38
Oral Health Education
42
Handwashing Education
44
Helping Pets Find a Home
45
Community Giving
Performance
48
Colgate’s Global Brands
49
People-Driven Innovation
51
Product Sustainability at Colgate
52
Improving the Product Sustainability Proﬁle
of
Our Products
53
Delivering Safe and Sustainable Ingredients
55
Delivering More Sustainable Packaging
65
Providing Access to Affordable Products
Planet
67
Our Commitment to No Deforestation
72
Environmental Management
72
Our Climate Commitment
86
Making Every Drop of Water Count
96
Leading with  Zero Waste Facilities
98
Reducing Consumer Waste
99
Commitment to Sustainable Buildings
Bookmarks above are clickable when the PDF  is downloaded.
Note that the bookmarks will not work on Android mobile
devices.
2A welcome letter from Chairman, President and CEO,
Noel
Wallace
_____________________________________________________________________________
Colgate-Palmolive is reimagining a healthier future
for all people, their pets and our planet. With the
Colgate
brand found in more homes than any other, we embrace
our extraordinary opportunity -  and responsibility
- to
make the world a better place. As you will read in
the following report, Colgate People are focused
on three key
ambitions:
●
Driving social impact by being a best in class employer
and responsible corporate citizen that
champions health & wellbeing and advances diversity,
equity and inclusion for our people and communities.
●
Helping people develop healthier habits through greater
transparency and sustainable products that
improve their lives and homes - from oral and personal
care to home care and pet nutrition.
●
Preserving and enhancing our environment by accelerating
action on climate change, eliminating waste,
decreasing plastic usage and conserving natural resources.
Below are just a few examples of what you will read
about in our report:
Driving Social Impact
The tragic events we confronted in the U.S. last summer
and other cultural and racial tensions around the
world
prompted us to reexamine our overall Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion (DE&I) efforts in 2020. We are listening,
learning, understanding and acting with courage and
conviction.
We also continued to champion health & hygiene in
our communities through the Colgate Bright Smiles,
Bright
Futures (BSBF) oral health program. We have reached
more than 1.3 billion children and families with
education,
free toothpaste, toothbrushes, dental screenings and
treatment referrals to children in more than 80 countries
around the world. We are raising the bar to reach
two billion children by 2025.
3
Helping Millions of Homes
In 2020, Colgate continued to design new, more sustainable
products to enhance health and hygiene. Recently,
we introduced the Colgate Keep, a reimagined toothbrush
with an aluminum handle and replaceable brush head
that contains 80 percent less plastic than a similarly
sized Colgate toothbrush. We also continued to drive
water
scarcity awareness through our #SaveWater campaign
globally, encouraging everyone to turn off the tap
while
brushing. Our outreach extended to our furry friends
led by Hill’s Pet Nutrition, which provides premium
nutrition
for dogs and cats and promotes pet adoption to help
shelter animals ﬁnd their forever homes. Looking
ahead,
engaging with people who choose our products is important
to us so we are working on 100% ingredient
transparency across all our brands by 2025.
Preserving our Environment
Colgate now has 20 TRUE Zero Waste facilities in 10
countries on 5 continents, more than any other company
-
and we are aiming to be 100% certiﬁed  by 2025.
We also introduced our ﬁrst-of-its-kind recyclable
toothpaste
tube, a technology we are sharing with others to help
make all tubes part of the circular economy. Ever
focused
on the future, we have commited to reduce our use
of new (virgin) plastics in packaging by one third,
and have
set a target for all of our packaging to be recyclable,
reusable or compostable by 2025. Finally, we are
accelerating action on climate and have set a target
in our own operations to achieve net zero carbon
by 2040
and 100% renewable energy by 2030, supporting our
pledge to the United Nations Business Ambition for
1.5
degrees.
In short, Colgate People are energized by our purpose
which incorporates ambitious and measurable
sustainability and social impact commitments. Working
with customers, suppliers, NGOs, academics,
governments and other partners, we’re building a brighter
and more sustainable future for all. We are eager
to
share our progress with you here.
4
A welcome letter from Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer,
Ann Tracy
_______________________________________________________________________
“Our planet is in trouble,” say
Gen Z kids (I have four), and
they’re counting on us to do
something about it.
Young people — and increasingly consumers of all
ages — expect the companies they support to take
on the burning issues of the day: climate change,
plastic waste and water scarcity, as well as health,
education and diversity, equity and inclusion. At
Colgate-Palmolive, we are focused on solving big
problems.  We are proud that our Colgate brand is
in
more homes than any other, and tackling these
issues starts at home.  We see that as our
superpower, and we have a big responsibility to use
our global reach to help the  people who buy and use
our products live more healthy and sustainable lives.
This year, we report against the ﬁnal year of our
2020 People, Performance and Planet Strategy that
we set in 2015.  We are pleased to report that we
met or exceeded our energy, greenhouse gas
emission, water and waste reduction targets.  Our
supply chain teams are ﬁnding new ways to cut
waste and operate in ways that are better for the
planet. We’re bringing breakthroughs to market to
make our packaging recyclable, to use more
recycled plastic, less plastic or no plastic at all
as we
work toward 100% recyclable, reusable or
compostable plastic packaging by 2025. And we’re
working with our suppliers to ensure we have strong
responsible sourcing programs in place. Finally, in
the communities where we live and work, we have
reached over 1.3 billion children with our Bright
Smiles, Bright Futures oral health education program
and helped to ﬁnd over 11 million shelter pets
forever homes through our Hill’s Food, Shelter &
Love Program.
This year, we are excited to launch our 2025
Sustainability and Social Impact Strategy.  We
encourage you to learn more about our results and
our future ambitions and actions in this report and
on our website.
While we are proud of our progress so far, we
recognize there is much more work to be done.  And
this work cannot be done without collaboration with
our consumers, suppliers, retailers, communities
and, most importantly, Colgate People.  We are
working to fully embed sustainability into our
strategic growth plan and across all facets of our
business. Together we will tackle these problems
and inspire people to live more sustainably.
Together, we will smile, because we are reimagining
a healthier future for all people, their pets and
our
planet.
5
Reimagining a Healthier Future for All
________________________________________________
Colgate 2025: Our Strategy for The Future
We begin this new decade with great momentum and a
sense of accomplishment as
we ﬁnish the last year of our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability
Strategy. Looking ahead, we
are setting our sights on something even bigger as
we begin our journey toward
accomplishing our 2025 sustainability mission.  Colgate’s
2025 Sustainability & Social Impact Strategy
,
focuses on 3 key ambitions. These key ambitions are
supported by actionable targets that uphold our
continued commitment to building environmental and
social consciousness into every decision we make.
2025 Sustainability & Social Impact Mission
At Colgate-Palmolive, we are really proud that Colgate
is in more homes than any other, so
we can
and
we
will
create a he
althier, more sustainable future for all.
SMILE
:
WE
are reimagining a healthier future for all
people, their pets and our planet.
Key Ambitions
DRIVING SOCIAL IMPACT
We are committed to ensuring the wellbeing of those
we serve, building a culture of
inclusivity and creating meaningful opportunities
for all people to succeed inside and
outside Colgate.
HELPING MILLIONS OF HOMES
We are empowering people to develop healthier
habits by choosing sustainable
products that improve their lives and homes from oral
and personal care to pet nutrition
and home care.
PRESERVING OUR ENVIRONMENT
We are accelerating action on climate change and reducing
our environmental
footprint, working with our partners and operations
to eliminate waste, decrease plastic
usage, save water and conserve natural resources.
6
2015 to 2020 Strategy
Colgate’s 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy maintains
our emphasis on People, Performance and Planet
with focused, measurable goals that align with the
Company’s business objectives.
Helping Colgate People and Their Families Live Better
WE WILL:
●
Continuously improve employee health and reduce health
risks by 15%
(1)
●
Encourage healthier living for Colgate People and
their families
●
Ensure a safe and healthy work environment with a
goal of zero lost-time incidents
●
Provide education and tools to Colgate People to elevate
ﬁnancial awareness and planning
Contributing to the Communities Where We Live and
Work
WE WILL:
●
Expand Bright Smiles, Bright Futures
TM
program to
reach 1.3 billion children
●
Invest in the improvement of health, education, and
environment for thousands of people in
communities around the globe
●
Partner with animal shelters to help over 2 million
dogs and cats ﬁnd homes
●
Reach 60 million people annually with handwashing
education
●
Expand Colgate Cares Day globally to be a leader in
volunteerism
Delighting Consumers and Sustaining Our World With
Our Brands
WE WILL:
●
Improve the sustainability proﬁle in our new products
and product updates
(2)
●
Commit $250 million to drive sustainability with breakthrough
product and process innovation
●
Increase the recyclability of our packaging and increase
recycled content to 50%
(3)
●
Have a positive impact by expanding access to affordable
health and wellness products for
millions of people in underserved communities
●
Use the power of our brands to build awareness and
drive engagement in product sustainability
7Making Every Drop of Water Count
WE WILL:
●
Reduce our manufacturing water intensity by half compared
to 2002
●
Replenish water withdrawn in highly stressed regions
●
Increase supplier participation in our water stewardship
program
●
Partner with local and global organizations to bring
clean water to underserved areas of the world
●
Promote water conservation awareness to all our global
consumers
Reducing Our Impact on Climate and the Environment
WE WILL:
●
Responsibly source forest commodities to reach zero
net deforestation
●
Promote use of renewable energy and reduce absolute
greenhouse gas emissions from
manufacturing by 25% compared to 2002
●
Reduce our manufacturing energy intensity by one-third
compared to 2002
●
Halve our manufacturing waste sent to landﬁll per
ton of product compared to 2010, working
toward our goal of “Zero Waste”
●
Partner with key suppliers, customers and consumers
to reduce energy, greenhouse gas
emissions, and waste
(1)
15% risk reduction will be measured considering
a 2013 baseline, using the Global Health Risk Assessment
tool, available
to countries with 100 or more employees.
(2)
T
he performance results will be based on representative
new products from the product portfolio evaluated
against
comparable Colgate products across three impact areas
to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability
proﬁle,
based on review of quantitative and qualitative data.
(3)
Packages meeting all three criteria are considered
recyclable: 1) the package is made of a material
that is widely
accepted for recycling, 2) the package can be separated
into material(s) that can be recycled, and 3) the
package material
can be reprocessed into a preferred valuable feedstock.
82020 Sustainability Commitments Progress
The Colgate brand is in more homes than any other,
so we can and we will create a
healthier, more sustainable future for all. We begin
this new decade with great
momentum and a sense of accomplishment as we reﬂect
on our achievements against
our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy.
We are pleased to report excellent progress against
the ﬁnal year of our 2020 Sustainability Strategy,
anchored
in the framework of people, performance, and planet.
Colgate earned recognition in 2020 on the Dow Jones
Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the fourth consecutive
year. We were also named the top performing
Household Products company by the DJSI for the second
year in a row and achieved Industry Best scores in
the Environmental and Social categories. We were also
named to the 2020 CDP A List for Climate Change and
Water Stewardship, while keeping our position in the
Leadership category with an A- in the Palm Oil category.
Additionally, we received our 11th consecutive EPA
ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year Award, a U.S. Green
Building Council (USGBC) Leadership Award, and recognition
on EPA’s Green Power Partnership National Top
100.
In addition to the above, we are pleased to share
the following highlights as we reﬂect on our
achievements against our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability
Strategy:
People
Our values are grounded in giving back to the communities
where we live and work.
●
As a response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we quickly
mobilized ﬁve of our manufacturing plants
to produce and donate more than 26 million bars of
soap specially packaged with instructions on
proper handwashing. The soap bars were distributed
by our network of partners to communities
in 28 countries. We also donated over
$20 million
in health and hygiene and pet nutrition products
to community-based organizations.
●
We repurposed our nine U.S.-based Bright Smiles, Bright
Futures mobile dental vans to distribute
1.4 million
bars of soap, as well as other hygiene
products, to school districts and food banks.
Colgate Bright Smiles, Bright Futures is our ﬂagship
oral health education program. Since the
program was established in 1991, we have reached over
1.3 billion children i
n more than 80
countries.
9
●
Our global handwashing program provides educational
materials and sample products to
schools and communities, building awareness about
proper handwashing. In 2020, we reached
more
than 28 million
people
through advertising, in-store
activation, social media campaigns,
community events and Clean Hands, Good Health preschool
educational programs.
●
We’re making holistic well-being an organizational
priority to ensure our people can thrive and
bring their best selves to work, everyday. Our well-being
initiatives take both a macro view by
serving our more than 34,000 employees and a micro
one by offering individual solutions. We’re
building a supportive culture and suite of meaningful
programs and services that address the
diverse needs of Colgate People.
●
Since 2002, the Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love program
has provided more than
$300
million worth of
Hill’s brand pet foods to over 1,000 animal shelters
and has helped more than
11 million pets
ﬁnd
their forever homes.
●
We continue to maintain world-class safety performance,
while focusing on ensuring higher levels
of control for critical risk tasks. Our program has
three basic tenets: Leadership at all Levels,
Culture & Engagement and Risk Reduction.
Our 2020
safety results showed improved
performance for our total recordable rate (TRR). Our
total recordable rate (TRR) was 0.19, down
from 0.20 in 2019. Our lost workday case rate (LWCR)
was 0.05, which matched our 2019 results.
Performance
We are empowering people to develop healthier habits
by choosing sustainable products that improve their
lives and homes.
●
Through cross functional collaboration across the
Colgate world, we continue to make progress
and 99 percent of new products in 2020 have improved
sustainability proﬁles.
(1)
●
We continue working towards our commitment to exit
PVC. As of 2020, we have eliminated using
PVC in
99.7
percent of our packaging by weight.
●
As of
2020, a
pproximately
91
percent of our packaging
by weight is technically recyclable in our
Personal Care, Home Care and Pet Nutrition categories.
When Oral Care packaging (including
toothbrushes) is added, our packaging recyclability
company-wide is
83 p
ercent.
(2)
10Planet
We have a leading environmental program focused on
reduction of carbon emissions, water and  energy
usage,
and waste to landﬁll.
●
In the last several years, we have made great progress
to reduce waste in partnership with the
USGBC TRUE
®
Zero Waste program.
Our Canelands, South
Africa plant achieved TRUE
®
Zero
Waste certiﬁcation, the ﬁrst-ever site in Africa
to receive this recognition. Our Topeka, Kansas and
Cambridge, Ohio plants also achieved certiﬁcation
in 2020.  Colgate now has 20 TRUE
®
Zero
Waste facilities in 10 countries on ﬁve continents,
more than any other company.
●
We received our 11th consecutive EPA ENERGY STAR®
Partner of the Year Award.
Since 2011, 86
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR
®
Challenge for Industry Awards
have been achieved by Colgate
manufacturing sites, with 12 awards achieved in 2020.
●
Colgate signed the “Recover Better” statement from
the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and other
NGOs, urging governments to align their COVID-19 economic
aid and recovery efforts with
ambitious action to ﬁght climate change.
●
Our recent expansion project  at our Global Technology
Campus in Piscataway, NJ received LEED
Gold certiﬁcation. We currently have
19 facilities
that have achieved 27 LEED Certiﬁcations.
●
Working toward the Company’s goal of “Zero Waste,”
Colgate has reduced the amount of waste
per ton of production sent to landﬁlls by 82% since
2010.
(3)
●
By 2020, Colgate reduced water use per ton of production
by nearly 52% vs. 2002, avoiding
enough water use to ﬁll 299 billion gallons of water.
(3)(4)
__________________________________________________________________________________________
(1)
The performance results are based on representative
products from the product portfolio evaluated against
comparable Colgate products across three impact areas
to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability
proﬁle, based on review of quantitative and qualitative
data.
(2)
Excludes our recently acquired eltaMD, Filorga,
hello and PCA Skin businesses and co-packers.
(3)
Subject to ﬁnal veriﬁcation by a third-party
auditor.
(4)
Assuming an 8oz glass of water
11UN Global Compact and SDGs
12
Corporate Governance
Company Proﬁle
Founded in 1806, Colgate-Palmolive Company (“we,”
“our,” “us,” the “Company” or “Colgate”) is a caring,
innovative growth company reimagining a healthier
future for all people, their pets and our planet.
Operations
We operate in more than 80 countries, and our products
are marketed in more than 200 countries and
territories. More than 34,000 Colgate employees drive
our success. Headquartered in New York City, Colgate
operates through six divisions around the world: North
America, Latin America, Europe, Asia Paciﬁc,
Africa/Eurasia and Hill’s Pet Nutrition.
We have more than 50 manufacturing and research facilities
globally. The vast majority of our products are
manufactured in Colgate-owned facilities. We also
have an extensive supply chain consisting of thousands
of
suppliers of raw and packing materials, manufacturing
operating supplies, capital equipment, and other
goods and services.
Business Priorities
We remain focused on delivering long-term shareholder
return and building long-term business success
through good corporate governance and the design and
implementation of our
key strategic business priorities—driving organic
sales growth through
innovation of our core brands, leveraging faster growth
in adjacent categories
and expanding in high growth channels and markets;
delivering margin
expansion through operating leverage and productivity;
maximizing the impact
of our environmental, social and governance programs
and leading in the
development of human capital, including our sustainability
and social impact
and diversity, equity and inclusion strategies.
To read more, see our
annual report
.
13
Colgate Brands
We manufacture and market a wide variety of products
in the U.S. and around the world in two product
segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition.
Oral, Personal and Home Care products include
toothpaste, toothbrushes, mouthwash, bar and liquid
hand soaps, shower gels, shampoos, conditioners,
deodorants and antiperspirants, skin health products,
dishwashing detergents, fabric conditioners, household
cleaners and other similar items. Principal global
and regional trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive,
elmex,
hello, meridol, Sorriso, Tom’s of Maine, EltaMD, Filorga,
Irish Spring, Lady Speed Stick, PCA Skin, Protex,
Sanex, Softsoap, Speed Stick, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso,
Murphy, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hill’s
Science
Diet and Hill’s Prescription Diet.
Bringing trusted brands ― and reasons to smile ― to
millions of consumers around the world.
Colgate ’s Corpor ate Go vernance Commitment
Governance is an ongoing commitment shared by our
Board, management and all Colgate People. Our Board
believes that good corporate governance accompanies
and greatly aids our long-term business success and
that we have consistently been at the forefront of
good corporate governance. Reﬂecting its commitment
to
continuous improvement, our Board reviews its governance
practices on an ongoing basis to ensure that they
promote shareholder value. To learn more, visit the
Governance section
on our website.
Sustainability Go vernance
We view sustainability as being critically important
to our business.
Our Sustainability Steering Committee makes strategic
decisions related to sustainability and guides the
organization in its efforts to meet sustainability
goals. The committee is composed of Colgate’s Chief
of
Staff, Group President, Global Innovation Group, Chief
Sustainability Oﬃcer, Chief Technology Oﬃcer,
Chief
Human Resources Oﬃcer, Vice President, Global Compensation
and Beneﬁts,  Chief Communications Oﬃcer,
Chief Legal Oﬃcer and Secretary, Chief Supply Chain
Oﬃcer, and Chief Investor Relations Oﬃcer. Our
Chief
Sustainability Oﬃcer has direct responsibility for
implementing sustainability and environment, health
and
safety programs; she has accountability to our Group
President, Global Innovation Group and to our Chief
Supply Chain Oﬃcer. For our annual corporate social
responsibility report, the Global Sustainability
team
gathers the content cross-functionally and the Sustainability
Steering Committee reviews the ﬁnal report
content.
14Our sustainability efforts span all aspects of our business, including supply chain, marketing, innovation,
customer development and people development.  Networks
of senior leaders in each division and local
champions support on-the-ground sustainability efforts,
communications, and reporting. Moreover, to
integrate sustainability tracking and disclosures
into our business strategy, operations and employee
review
process, our global sustainability initiatives are
among the individual objectives used to determine
the
compensation for many of our senior managers.
Oversight of environmental, social and governance
initiatives is a key priority of our Board of Directors,
particularly through the Nominating, Governance and
Corporate Responsibility (Governance) Committee,
which was reconstituted in 2020 to heighten the Board’s
focus on these areas. The Governance Committee
oversees the implementation of our 2025 Sustainability
and Social Impact Strategy and receives regular
updates on environmental, social and governance matters
and considers sustainability matters, risks and
opportunities in decision-making.The Governance Committee
oversees and receives regular updates on the
implementation of sustainability, social responsibility
and corporate citizenship matters. It also monitors
the
sentiment of various constituencies regarding our
environmental and social footprint.
Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Committee, which
includes Colgate’s Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Oﬃcer, Chief Financial Oﬃcer, Chief
Sustainability Oﬃcer and other members of Colgate’s
senior
management, monitors current and emerging risks facing
our company and has identiﬁed sustainability as
a
critical risk facing the company. ERM Committee members
provide the Board and its Committees, including
the Audit Committee, with regular updates on risks
facing the Company.
Please visit
Colgate’s Policy Statements
for a complete
listing.
Business Integrity
We are committed to doing business with integrity
and respect for all people and for the world around
us. With
governance and ethics principles embedded into Colgate’s
culture as well as standards supporting the
well-being of all Colgate people, we ensure that our
business success goes hand-in-hand with business
integrity.
CODE OF CONDUCT AND GLOBAL BUSINESS PRACTICES GUIDELINES
Since 1987, our
Code of Conduct
has served as a guide
for our daily business interactions, reﬂecting our
corporate values and our standard for ethical behavior.
Our Code of Conduct is available in 42 local  languages.
One hundred percent of salaried and clerical Colgate
people participate in annual training and certiﬁcation
on
15the Code of Conduct. Factory workers certify annually
and complete training every other year. Colgate’s
Global
Business Practices Guidelines provide further information
to our employees on key topics in our Code of
Conduct. The Guidelines offer clear, practical guidance
and illustrate how the values and principles outlined
in
the Code of Conduct apply to particular business situations.
The Colgate EthicsLine provides a means for employees
and external parties to ask questions, obtain
guidance or report any suspected violations of the
Code of Conduct. We work to create a workplace free
of
inappropriate or unlawful behavior in which people
are encouraged to share their concerns with the Company
without fear of retaliation. Consequently, at Colgate
no adverse action will be taken against any employee,
former employee, agent or third party for complaining
about, reporting, participating in or assisting in
the
investigation of a suspected violation of the Company’s
Code of Conduct, Company policy or applicable law
unless the allegation made or information provided
is found to be intentionally false or was not made
in good
faith.
All reporting activity provided when Colgate People
“Speak Up” is reviewed and, if deemed to be a potential
violation of the Code of Conduct, the matter is promptly
and thoroughly investigated by Global Ethics &
Compliance and/or the Global Legal Organization.
In 2020, Ethics and Compliance received 404 contacts
through a variety of channels including the EthicsLine,
Ethics web tool and ethics@colpal.com, which covered
a wide variety of reporting activities including
62
consultations. Allegations reported to Ethics and
Compliance, are grouped into the following categories:
Accounting related, Conﬂict of Interest, Discrimination;
Financial-related; Harassment; Regulatory/Legal;
Retaliation; Work Environment; Miscellaneous Issues;
and non-Ethics and Compliance matters. After a
thorough investigation has been completed, if the
allegations are substantiated, appropriate remedial
action
is taken.
BUSINESS PRACTICES GUIDELINES TOPICS:
Our Business Practices Guidelines illustrate how the
values and principles outlined in our Code of Conduct
apply to particular business situations. Our guidelines
detail not only our policies, but also our compliance
with
speciﬁc laws, regulations and practices.
To read more on the topics addressed by our Business
Practices Guidelines, visit
Colgate’s Ethics &
Compliance Guidelines
.
16Sustainability Management
Materiality Approach
In order to further reﬁne and build upon Colgate’s
sustainability strategy, in 2019, Colgate conducted
a
Stakeholder versus Business Impact assessment. This
assessment is recognized by the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) as a Materiality assessment. We refer
to this as a Sustainability Impact Assessment.
(1)
We conducted our Sustainability Impact Assessment
to meet the expectations of our external stakeholders
and to help inform our business decisions. To do so,
we ﬁrst created an extensive list of sustainability-related
issues by examining a large number of internal and
external sources including the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (UNSDGs), Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
(SASB), Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD), Environmental, Social, and Governance
rating tools (Dow Jones Standards Indices (DJSI),
CDP, Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS), Just
Capital,
Sustainalytics and Morgan Stanley Capital International
(MSCI)), peer reviewed scientiﬁc research, industry
reports, consumer insights data and employee feedback.
We then assessed the interrelations
between these sustainability-related
topics and our business through the
lenses of risks and opportunities. By
conducting a large employee survey, we
asked our employees where Colgate can
make the biggest impact. We held
in-depth interviews with Colgate subject
matter experts and function leads to
align our ﬁndings with business priorities
and analyzed data from our consumers
to identify moving trends in the market.
We received nearly 8,000 responses
from over 100 countries. As a result, we
have developed the “Sustainability
Impact Matrix” presented here.
17
The matrix above shows our key sustainability issues, categorized by the impact on our stakeholders and our
business in alignment with our three sustainability
pillars under our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy,
People, Performance and Planet. These issues also
intersect with the following GRI Standards and deﬁne
the
content of this report: Economic Performance, Materials,
Energy, Water, Emissions, Eﬄuents and Waste,
Products and Services, Compliance, Transport, Environmental
Health and Safety, Training and Education,
Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Local Communities,
Public Policy, and Service Labeling.
This report also addresses our efforts to respond
to the COVID-19 pandemic and to become an even more
diverse, equitable and inclusive company. While we
have not changed the sustainability impact matrix
we
created in 2019, we plan to continue our materiality
assessment and to update it in light of these events
and
our 2025 Sustainability and Social Impact Strategy.
We plan to include this new matrix in our 2021
Sustainability Report.
Colgate is managing risks and opportunities related
to these issues through the implementation of our
2025
Sustainability and Social Impact Strategy. Through
our Enterprise Risk Management process, we are focused
on sustainability as a critical risk, including the
environmental and social impact risk of plastic waste,
climate
change and water scarcity and access. These same issues
also provide an opportunity to drive innovation and
growth, strengthen brand reputation and demonstrate
our commitment to responsible business practices.
Additional detail on each of the issues and our actions
to address them is provided throughout the content
of
the website.
As reﬂected in the Risk Factors identiﬁed in our
2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequent
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, responsible sourcing
and deforestation, the use of plastic, energy and
water,
the recyclability or recoverability of packaging,
including single-use and other plastic packaging,
and ingredient
transparency are addressed among the sustainability-related
risks facing the company.
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
(1)
This report reserves the term “materiality” only
to address issues that are deemed material from the
point of view of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Topics
that are important from a sustainability point of
view in relation
to our business, as deﬁned in the GRI Guidelines
and other reporting frameworks, are listed under the
Key Sustainability
Issues section. As a publicly traded company, Colgate
ﬁles periodic reports with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange
Commission (SEC). Our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K
and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q include
material factors that make an investment in our company
speculative or risky, including, but not limited
to, those relating
to sustainability, namely: volatility in commodity
prices; changes in regulatory requirements relating
to ingredients in our
products; changes in policies or practices of retail
trade partners, such as with respect to the environment
or
sustainability; damage to our reputation relating
to environmental impacts or other sustainability issues;
disruption to our
global supply chain or key oﬃce facilities by environmental
events; disruptions in logistics; damage from industrial
accidents or other occupational health and safety
issues; losses caused by natural disasters, including
climate events; the
18impact of epidemics, pandemics and other widespread health concerns, including the COVID-19 pandemic; and the
adverse impact of climate change and other sustainability
matters. Refer to “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item
1A of our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2020 and Part II, Item 1A of subsequent Quarterly
Reports on Form
10-Q for additional information. In determining whether
information is material, we also consider if there
is a substantial
likelihood that a reasonable investor would consider
such information important in deciding how to vote
or make an
investment decision, or if the information would alter
the total mix of available information.
Stakeholder Engagement
Colgate strives to connect with a wide variety of
stakeholders so they can provide input on our sustainability
strategy, particularly in terms of our goals and targets.
We continue to expand the reach and methods of our
stakeholder outreach, enabling us to deepen our level
of engagement. We have increased employee feedback
through mechanisms, such as employee surveys, and
opportunities for employees to engage directly with
senior leadership on sustainability topics. Additionally,
we have a cross-functional team to continuously
monitor our external stakeholders in different areas
and discuss how we can best engage with them on an
increasingly productive basis. Colgate’s main stakeholder
groups, with examples of our engagement
approach for each group with respect to sustainability,
are outlined below.
STAKEHOLDERS
METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT
Our employees
Frequent internal communication, employee engagement
surveys, digital
engagement tools, such as MindSpark and LinkedIn-Elevate,
geographic
sustainability teams, internal subject matter experts,
quarterly sustainability
steering team reviews.
Our consumers
Integrated marketing communications, including those
addressing “brand purpose,”
ongoing consumer dialogue, consumer surveys and social
media and digital
engagement.
Our retail customers & 
partners
Ongoing sustainability network groups, sustainability
surveys, partnering with
customers to encourage sustainable habits with consumers
and promote
sustainable products.
Our shareholders and 
investor groups
We participate in direct engagement on sustainability
with our largest shareholders
through virtual and in-person dialogues on these matters
as a standalone topic or
as part of regular investor interactions. These interactions
can include response to
direct inquiries, individual or small group meetings,
and conferences.
Government and 
regulatory bodies
Ongoing monitoring of regulatory activity relevant
to Colgate, meetings and
19engagement through trade associations.
Non-governmental 
associations
Quarterly direct inquiries and feedback, virtual and
in-person meetings,
participation in boards, advisory councils and partnership
programs, reporting and
disclosure expectations.
Industry trade 
associations
Ongoing participation in sustainability steering and
working groups.
Local communities and 
community groups
Direct inquiries and feedback, virtual and in-person
meetings, engagement with 
local communities and schools, including through our
Bright Smiles, Bright Futures 
oral health education program.
Media
Direct inquiries and feedback.
About this Report
We recognize that transparency is important and provides
a window into our performance on sustainability.
In this report, we provide sustainability information
relevant to a broad range of stakeholders, including
consumers, customers, investors, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and our own employees.
We acknowledge the importance of data veriﬁcation
and obtain third-party assurance for our primary
environmental and social Key Performance Indicators:
percentage of products with an improved
sustainability proﬁle; number of zero-waste certiﬁed
sites; manufacturing carbon reduction per ton (of
production); manufacturing energy reduction per ton
(of production); manufacturing water consumption
per
ton (of production); waste-to-landﬁll per ton (of
production); outbound logistics carbon per ton (of
goods
shipped); number of hours worked; number of lost-time
incidents; number of recordable incidents and
number of occupational fatalities.
In this report and other channels, we disclose information
on our sustainability progress and respond to
several rating organizations, including CDP Climate,
CDP Water, CDP Forest and CDP Supply Chain,
RobecoSAM (to inform the Dow Jones Sustainability
Index rankings), JUST Capital, MSCI and Sustainalytics.
Our sustainability information and the KPI table annexed
also informs various ESG data sources including the
Bloomberg Terminal.
Unless otherwise indicated, this report includes environmental,
health and safety data from 100 percent of
our manufacturing sites and technology centers around
the world, but does not include data from contract
manufacturers.
(1)
Certain information relates to our
broader value chain. Supplier Responsible Sourcing
Assessment program data includes selected contract
manufacturers, warehouses and suppliers; our
20greenhouse gas and water footprints include additional data from upstream and downstream in our value
chain and progress on our Policy on No Deforestation
includes selected suppliers. Financial information
is
presented on a consolidated basis and in U.S. dollars
(see Business Priorities). The report provides data
for
Colgate’s ﬁscal year 2020 along with historical information
and more recent updates where indicated. We
issue our Sustainability Report on an annual basis;
our previous report focused on ﬁscal year 2019.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the
GRI Standards: Core option. The alignment of this
year’s report to the GRI framework can be found in
our GRI Content Index. There are no signiﬁcant changes
in
the scope of our report or the key sustainability
issues identiﬁed. Please see our 2020 GRI Content
Index for
more details.
For inquiries, please visit
Colgate’s Consumer Affairs
site at
www.colgatepalmolive.com
.
Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements
This report, including our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability
Strategy and our 2025 Sustainability and Social Impact
Strategy, contains forward-looking statements as that
term is deﬁned in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) in its rules, regulations and
releases. These statements are made on the basis of
our views and assumptions as of this time, and we
undertake no obligation to update these statements
except as required by law. We caution investors that
such forward-looking statements are not guarantees
of future performance and that actual events or results
may differ materially from these statements due to
a number of factors. For information about factors
that
could impact our business and cause actual results
to differ materially from these forward-looking
statements, please refer to our ﬁlings with the SEC,
including the information set forth under the caption
“Risk
Factors” in Colgate’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K
for
the year ended December 31, 2020 and subsequent
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
.
(1)
Although we do not include the local operating
results of our subsidiaries in Venezuela and Pakistan
in our Consolidated
Financial Statements, data from these locations are
included in the calculations in this report. Recent
acquisitions of our
skin health and oral care businesses, EltaMD, Filorga,
hello and PCA Skin, are not included in calculations
referenced
throughout this report, but they are consolidated
for ﬁnancial reporting purposes after their respective
date of acquisition.
21Our People
Learn about the progress we’ve made on our 2020 Sustainability
People Commitments.
Suppor ting Colgate P eople
We believe Colgate People are crucial to our ongoing
business success
. As such, we are committed to
helping our people reach their professional and personal
goals, offering an array of resources to help expand
their horizons, including career opportunities, access
to world-class learning and leadership development
programs, well-being initiatives and opportunities
to contribute to the communities where we work and
live.
Through these programs, we help employees stay engaged,
motivated and focused on delivering products
and services that exceed people’s expectations.
We support all of our employees to perform at their
fullest potential and recognize the important role
organizational diversity and inclusion play in our
global success. We work to attract and retain talented
individuals who lead with integrity. We align the
work of our people to our global strategy through
individual
and team goals. Our Performance Management process
fosters continuous coaching and feedback and
ensures that people are focused on the right priorities
to drive growth. We continue to build a coaching
culture where people feel comfortable coaching others
and learning through authentic development
conversations. Our robust learning curriculum reaches
all Colgate People, with 1,350 certiﬁed Colgate
instructors and approximately 80 courses plus thousands
of others online through LinkedinLearning, Harvard,
Bersin and more. Living Colgate’s values, taking personal
ownership of one’s development, openness to a
variety of experiences and enthusiasm for continuous
learning are the broad principles that deﬁne a
successful career at Colgate.
22
Building a Future to Smile About
Our social media framework strengthens Colgate’s employer
branding and digital presence, resulting in the
increase of our talent community and a healthy candidate
pipeline. More than 1.7 million people visited our
career site in 2020 and an increasing number engage
with us on social platforms such as LinkedIn,
Glassdoor and Facebook.
As a truly global company, our diverse backgrounds
enable us to respond to the needs and aspirations
of the
billions we serve worldwide. We are committed to providing
fair opportunities for diversity in gender and
ethnic  recruitment and advancement to ensure our
company reﬂects the communities in which we live
and
work. Further, having a diverse set of ideas, approaches
and backgrounds helps drive innovation.
Building a Coaching Culture
Ongoing coaching and feedback is a key element of
our performance management process. In 2020, we
enhanced our coaching culture and skills by partnering
with BetterUp, a leading provider of virtual coaching.
BetterUp provided 500 Colgate leaders with personalized
support, accelerating their individual effectiveness
and development. Program participants experience high
quality coaching and in turn become champions of
coaching within Colgate.
In 2020, we also launched a global learning program:
Becoming a People Manager. 300 new people
managers completed the program and are now putting
their learning into action. We are committed to having
all new and existing Colgate People managers participate
and leverage this learning content to enable their
teams to reach their full potential and perform at
their best.
Our ongoing Colgate Leadership Challenge for talented,
early-in-career employees provides participants with
exposure and interaction with senior management, a
greater understanding and connection to the global
organization, personal leadership skills training
and an opportunity to work on an important strategic
issue
for the business.
Creating a Learning Mindset at Colgate
We continue to transform our learning strategy to
better meet the evolving expectations of the modern
workforce and create a continuous learning culture.
Our focus is to develop the strategic organizational
capabilities that will drive current and future growth
for Colgate by offering learning experiences that
are
closely aligned to our business strategy. One of the
key initiatives is digital transformation. We believe
in
technology and people. We have a learning experience
platform called Mindspark, a portal through which
Colgate People access multiple modalities of content,
including structured, mandatory, functional and
23curated. In 2020, salaried and clerical employees completed more than 325,000 pieces of internal and
external content (including mandatory training). On
average, 37% of employees consistently accessed and
actively utilized Mindspark for digital learning during
2020.
As part of our digital strategy, we implemented an
in-application digital adoption platform (Walk-me)
for our
customer development teams for their new planning
tool “ATLAS.” ATLAS is a customer collaboration tool
designed to effectively plan, monitor and analyze
volume and investment to drive real-time decision-making
and deliver proﬁtable revenue growth. The team reduced
the needed training time from three days of live
workshop and 11.5 hours of e-learnings to three hours
of virtual workshop and a few drop-in sessions. We
are also on a journey to measure the impact of learning
on the organization and behavior change. We closely
align business needs with learning performance and
provide a variety of learning formats and content.
We
started the digital survey journey in 2019 and collected
data from more than 6,000 learning surveys. In 2020,
we collected data from 23,000 surveys. This includes
3,000 surveys on pre- and post-application of learning
experiences. The average NPS (Net Promoter Score)
of all Colgate courses has always exceeded industry
average (61%) with a favorable 72%.
We earned two gold awards from the Brandon Hall Group,
which recognizes organizations that have
successfully deployed learning programs with measurable
results.
• The ﬁrst award recognized the learning experience
we developed for ﬁeld
sales representatives across EltaMD, PCA Skin and
Colgate Oral
Pharmaceuticals for their return to the workplace.
• The second award recognized our “Return to the
Workplace” learning solution
developed on the EdApp platform as the “best advance
in performance support
for crisis management.” The app was built in record
time, leveraging a new
technology, enabling deployment globally and addressing
the need to deliver to
both Colgate People and external partners.
Engaging Employees
Every two years, we conduct “Colgate Connect,” a global
survey to assess key drivers of employee
engagement. We partner with an industry-leading vendor
to develop the survey, build robust reporting and
analytics capabilities and provide managers with a
simple tool for reviewing results and action planning
with
their teams. We also deploy shorter pulse surveys
and gather additional insights at critical moments
of the
employee journey -- at the completion of the recruitment
process, during the onboarding process and when
leaving Colgate -- to engage people and improve employee
experience.
24
For example, through the 2018 Colgate Connect survey, we learned that our people want to learn more about
career opportunities at Colgate. Our European team
took the lead and used design thinking to create
the
“Build Your Best Future” program, which we activated
globally in 2020. In early 2020, we conducted a brief
COVID-19 response survey with all employees, including
our manufacturing plants, to listen and adjust what
we were doing in response to the pandemic. In our
2020 bi-annual survey, we heard that conducting effective
meetings is a company-wide opportunity, especially
in a remote work environment. As a result, we are
reinforcing our MeetSmart principles and updating
them for a hybrid workplace. 81% of our people believe
that their feedback is used to make improvements,
a leading result in the industry.
Emplo yee Health and W ellness
At Colgate, we’re making holistic well-being an organizational
priority to ensure our people can thrive and
bring their best selves to work, everyday. It’s a
key action of our 2025 Sustainability and Social Impact
Strategy and an expression of living our company’s
purpose as a caring, innovative growth company
reimagining a healthier future for all people, their
pets and our planet.
The multiple impacts of COVID-19 have only accelerated
and expanded our longstanding commitment to
wellness. With health top of mind for everyone, we’re
doing more and transforming our approach.
Colgate’s well-being initiatives take both a macro
view by serving more than 34,000 employees and a
micro
one by offering individual solutions. We’re building
a supportive culture and suite of meaningful programs
and
services that address the diverse needs of Colgate
People.
We approach well-being from multiple angles beyond
physical health. It’s a core component of our workforce
strategy, seen as a key inﬂuence on attaining business
goals. And perhaps most importantly, we’re solving
for
the “whys” behind challenges to optimal well-being,
rather than focusing solely on the “whats.” For example,
if
stress is leading to smoking or overeating, we need
to address that ﬁrst.
Encouraging Holistic Well-Being
For our people to bring their best selves to work
each day, their needs across multiple, interdependent
dimensions of well-being must be met. As an employer,
Colgate plays a key role in making that happen by
supporting, among other things:
●
Physical well-being: providing access to comprehensive
dental & medical care, safety programs,
nutritious food and physical activity opportunities.
●
Emotional well-being: supporting a positive sense
of self, life/work balance, emotional resilience
and coping skills, and access to mental healthcare
and counseling.
25●
Social well-being: fostering social connections with colleagues, inclusivity in spirit and practice,
and plenty of joyful laughter.
●
Purpose well-being: ensuring one’s work feels meaningful
and important, goal-setting exercises
and many learning opportunities, and recognition throughout
the year.
●
Financial well-being: providing appropriate compensation,
supporting retirement planning, and
offering guidance to manage ﬁnancial challenges and
changes like childcare, college expenses,
disability, care for aging parents and relocation.
●
Environmental well-being: contributing to the success
of local communities where we work and
live and supporting initiatives toward healthier futures
for all people, their pets and our planet.
This work encompasses hundreds of myriad efforts across
our business and communities. One highlight is
our 10th annual Live Better Month that was held in
June 2020. Over the last 10 years our annual event
has
evolved to not only focus on physical health but also
nutrition and emotional health. Given the stresses
of
2020 around the world, it was important for Colgate
to continue to celebrate Live Better Month to encourage
our employees, many of whom were working from their
homes, to focus on their overall well-being and the
well-being of their loved ones.
We asked employees to ﬁnd the moments that move them
and gave them opportunities to ﬁnd those
moments through various ﬁtness, meditation classes
and virtual webinars. To communicate these offerings,
we used emails, electronic newsletters, videos, onsite
posters as well as our internal social media platform.
Due to the popularity, we continued to offer these
virtual classes throughout the year.
Our Commitment t o Univ ersal Human Rights
We have  a long-standing commitment to respecting
human and labor rights worldwide and support the
United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the International Labor Organization (ILO) Core
Labor Standards.  We have also conﬁrmed our support
for the UN Global Compact and principles on human
rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We
are a member of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) and
support the CGF’s Social Resolution on Forced Labor
and its supporting Priority Industry Principles that
every
worker should have freedom of movement, no worker
should pay for a job, and no worker should be indebted
or coerced to work. We work with and seek out business
partners who share our commitment to universal
human rights. We recognize the responsibility of businesses
to respect labor rights and engage with
stakeholders adherence to universal human rights.
Protecting human and labor rights is one of our key
sustainability issues.
To learn more about our human rights strategy and
management approach, please see our
Human Rights
Policy
.
26Diversity , Equity & Inclusion
Colgate People -- more than 34,000 strong based in
over 100 countries -- reﬂect the diverse richness
of the
cultures we serve around the world. As a truly global
company, we are working to ensure that our workforce
reﬂects the diversity of the communities in which
we live and work. We are committed to act with
compassion, integrity, honesty and high ethics in
all situations, to listen with respect to others and
to value
differences. Colgate commits to be recognized as a
leader in global diversity, equity and inclusion
by Colgate
People, customers, consumers, shareholders, industry
peers, and the global communities in which we live
and work.
We have created a strategy to help us communicate
our beliefs and provide a roadmap for evolution and
change. This is the ﬁrst time we’ve published a formal
Global Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) strategy.
It
sets the roadmap for our journey to further evolve
the culture of our organization into one of belonging.
Learn
more about how we are taking action below.
•
Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
•
Our 2025 Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Strategy
•
Our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Results
We will
report the measures of our success and progress
annually. Our focus on creating an organization
where people feel they belong will be measured by
the responses to our annual engagement and pulse
surveys, such as the Colgate Connect Survey, as well
as our DE&I training mandate and the establishment
of
DE&I metrics in our managers’ individual objectives.
We also feel a responsibility to support the growth
and development of diverse suppliers. We have a
supplier
diversity program
with a goal to increase our spend
to 10 percent with Tier 1 North American Suppliers
by
2025, with companies owned and operated by minorities,
women, veterans, members of the lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community, and people
with disabilities.  It is important our supply base
represents the communities in which we work. Supporting
diverse suppliers creates jobs with the community
and helps us positively impact more people.
“As Colgate People, we commit ourselves to a workplace
where we meet one another with respect and treat
one another with dignity.”
Hear more
from Colgate’s
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer,
Noel
Wallace.
We believe DE&I are imperative to the long term success
of our company. Our journey has just begun
.
27TELLING OUR STORY:
●
We have joined
CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion
,
the largest CEO-driven business
commitment to advance diversity and inclusion within
the workplace. This provides our
company with a powerful platform to collaborate with
organizations that share our commitment
to DE&I while more effectively sharing best practices
across the 900+ member companies.
●
Colgate honored an important and meaningful day
known as Juneteenth or Freedom Day, which
commemorates the end of slavery in the United States,
with a Town Hall on Racism in America. The session
featured a panel of Colgate leaders and external guest
speakers in a discussion on racism and how we can
better support the Black and African American
community.
●
Minority Business News USA has recognized our Supplier
Diversity
team
as 2020 Supplier
Diversity All-Stars. The team’s dedication demonstrates
how we’re supporting minority and
women-owned suppliers, a key pillar of our 2025 DE&I
Strategy.
●
In honor of Dia da Consciência Negra (Black Conscious
Day), Colgate Brazil hosted a Diversity
Week, bringing leaders and experts from inside and
outside Colgate together to discuss how we
can continue improving racial equality and inclusion
for our teams and the communities we
serve. This work will continue into 2021 with a focus
on talent acquisition and awareness
building.
●
In honor of Women’s History Month, Colgate Women’s
Network (CWN) Park Avenue and Global
DE&I invited all employees to volunteer with American
Corporate Partners (ACP), a national,
non-proﬁt organization dedicated to helping military
service members transition to the private
sector through one-on-one mentoring with business
leaders. ACP’s Women’s Program provides
speciﬁc support to female veterans and military spouses,
who face unique challenges in their
career development.
28
●
The North America Supply Chain has launched a new
Colgate
“Women in Manufacturing” award program to recognize
talented women who contribute outstanding results
to our
company and who live our values by making time to
give back
to our communities. Congratulations to
Cristi Beyer
,
Finance
Team Lead, Hill’s, Topeka, KS,
Rachel Collinge
, Factory
Performance & Reliability, Hill’s, Emporia, KS,
Kristine
Luedke
, Shift Support, Tom’s of Maine, and
Carrie Metzger
, Area Leader, Colgate, Cambridge, OH.
Equal P ay
Colgate has long been committed to pay equity and
its role in fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace.
We
pay all Colgate People at a level commensurate with
their role, work location, individual performance
and
experience, irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity,
or any other category protected by law. Consistent
with
these values, Colgate conducts an annual U.S.-based
pay analysis for gender and race. Acknowledging that
comparing pay based on race/ethnicity is challenging
on a global basis, in 2020, Colgate also conducted
a
global gender-based pay analysis. Our results conﬁrm
that in the United States, Colgate has achieved
statistical pay equity for gender and race. Globally,
there is a less than one percent unexplained difference
in
pay between women and men, and we are committed to
continuing our work to close that gap.
29
Supplier Div ersity
Our Supplier Diversity program is embedded in our
U.S.-based organization with clear goals to drive
growth.
We believe we have a responsibility to support the
growth and development of diverse suppliers. We have
a
supplier diversity program
with a goal to increase
our spend to 10 percent with Tier 1 North American
Suppliers by 2025, with companies owned and operated
by minorities, women, veterans, members of the
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community,
and people with disabilities. We believe a more
diverse supplier network is a better network for us.
It is important that our suppliers represent the
communities in which we work. Additionally, we believe
supplier diversity increases the breadth and stability
of our supply chain across direct and indirect spend.
Supporting diverse suppliers creates jobs within
the
community and helps us positively impact more people.
We drive performance through our quarterly Supplier
Diversity Forums, and we collaborate with our suppliers
to support our goals. We encourage our procurement
teams to seek suppliers that add value and innovation
while also delivering cost savings.
To support our supplier diversity goals, our teams
have set objectives, such as inclusion of diversity
spend
requirements in contracts with ﬁrst-tier suppliers,
maximizing second-tier spend opportunities and executing
targeted supplier day forums to engage and build relationships.
In 2020, we spent approximately 5.5%
percent of our total U.S. procurement spend of nearly
$3 billion with diverse suppliers.
We continue to increase the number of diverse suppliers
we engage with. In 2020, we facilitated the diverse
supplier certiﬁcation process for one of our main
transportation companies, Pohl Transportation, Inc.,
to be
designated as a Disabled Owned Business Enterprise
(DOBE). Pohl Transportation provides freight services
for
Hill's North America business. With our mentoring,
guidance and training, Pohl Transportation was able
to
obtain this certiﬁcation, continuing to expand our
relationship with diverse suppliers.
Supplier Diversity Recognition
Minority Business News USA has recognized our Supplier
Diversity
team
as 2020 Supplier Diversity All-Stars.
The team’s dedication demonstrates how we’re supporting
minority and women-owned suppliers, a key pillar
of our
2025 DE&I Strategy
.
30Envir onment Health and Saf ety
The health and safety of our employees, our customers,
and the communities in which we operate is
paramount in all we do―our goal is zero harm. Colgate
People around the world are committed to
maintaining healthy and safe working conditions in
our facilities and to keeping our business operations
environmentally sound. We have improved our safety-related
incentive mechanisms by linking compensation
to leading indicating metrics to drive a robust safety
culture. These metrics include training completion,
physical inspections, corrective action completion,
behavioral observations, and participation in activities
that
engage employees.
2020 presented unique challenges, as we had to quickly
transition our programs and processes to address
the COVID-19 pandemic. We modiﬁed our Health Incident
Management Plan (HIMP) to address COVID-19
and established speciﬁc actions related to response,
prevention and mitigation. Key elements of the HIMP
include requirements for our facilities to protect
our workforce, visitors, contractors, and temporary
employees, speciﬁcally - temperature/symptom screening
at entrance, maintain social distancing, use of face
masks, handwashing, respiratory hygiene, and cleaning
and disinfection.
The HIMP also provides direction on contact tracing,
testing, vaccination preparation, and details on
minimizing potential exposure. Our response enabled
us to support our customers while protecting our
workforce.
31
Our Environment Health & Safety (EHS) & Human Resources
teams developed
coordinated efforts to educate the families of our
employees on the importance
of prevention and being vigilant in the community.
The campaigns included
educational materials, masks, sanitizers, and fun
items for children - coloring
books, building your own mask kits, and other entertaining
activities.
To ensure a consistent, integrated approach, our Executive
Crisis Management
Team (ECMT) was called to action.  The ECMT provides
global direction and
guidance to our division and site leaders.  A People
Relations sub-team was also called to action to provide
tactical plans and respond to questions and issues
as they arose. The ECMT and People Relations’ teams
consist of cross-functional representation, and are
positioned to make quick decisions to protect our
people,
our operations, and our business.  The People Relations
team addresses issues including employee
communication, training, technical management of Covid-19
employee cases, coordination of functional
responsibilities related to COVID-19, and space and
site management.
Despite the pandemic, we continue to maintain world-class
safety performance, while focusing on ensuring
higher levels of control for critical risk tasks.
Our program has three basic tenets: Risk Reduction,
Leadership
at all Levels, and Culture & Engagement.
To learn mor e, see our
EHS P olicy Statement
.
32
We continue to maintain a robust EHS Management System and EHS Global Standards. The EHS Management
System contains key provisions for our requirements that includes self assessments and inspection,
management of change, training, documentation, and
EHS leadership expectations.  Other key elements
are
included as well.  We annually evaluate our EHS Management
System with a third party vendor to ensure it is
equivalent to benchmark consensus standards, such
as I
SO 45001:2018 or ISO 14001:2015
.  Sites are required
to develop appropriate programs to comply with Company
Standards and applicable regulatory requirements.
We maintain an EHS audit program that is executed
by our employees and a third party provider.  During
2020,
we transitioned to a virtual audit process for our
full and veriﬁcation audits.  We were able to leverage
technology solutions to effectively complete ﬁve
f
ull audits and eight veriﬁcation audits.
Gaps identiﬁed during the audit process are input
into a global system, with appropriate actions assigned
by
the site. Actions are tracked to closure. Sites update
their action
plans on a quarterly basis. Our operations are evaluated
annually to
ensure occupational health exposures are well controlled.
Any
identiﬁed exposures are managed using the hierarchy
of controls.
Closure of previously identiﬁed exposures is veriﬁed
by a global
third-party industrial hygiene provider.
Our 2020 safety results showed improved performance
for our total
recordable rate (TRR). Our total recordable rate (TRR)
was 0.19 (80
recordable incidents), down from 0.20 in 2019. Our
lost workday case
rate (LWCR) was 0.05 (23 lost workday incidents),
which matched our
2019 results. In 2020, we experienced
24
accidents
– ranging from
fractures to hospitalizations – which we consider
“serious” according to
the Colgate Accident/Incident Reporting and Recordkeeping
Standard.
During 2020, we unfortunately experienced a fatality
involving a third
party contractor at a site in India.  Colgate accident
statistics include
employees, temporary workers and tenant contractors.
For serious
accidents, we also report contractor and visitor incidents.
In 2020, we received independent third party veriﬁcation
of our health and safety data collection and reporting
processes as well as the data itself. As part of this
project, the number of hours worked, number of lost-time
incidents, number of recordable incidents and number
of occupational fatalities were veriﬁed at select
sites to
ensure sites are properly recording incidents, and
the system properly accounts for those incidents
meeting
Colgate reporting requirements.
33
2020 Safety Highlights
Risk-Based Management
We continue to sharpen our focus on risk-based safety
management with a goal to eliminate serious incidents
and fatalities. This approach involves evaluating
the risk severity for tasks conducted in our operations,
and
ensuring the appropriate controls are in place to
prevent an adverse outcome.  In 2019, our program
emphasized establishing and communicating appropriate
controls to reduce and mitigate critical risks and
serious incidents and fatalities. This expectation
has been formally incorporated into our EHS Management
System and Audit Program.
EHS Technology Solutions
In 2020, we established a cross-functional team to
assess, evaluate and fast-track technology solutions.
Although the primary focus was for COVID-19 solutions,
the team’s charter targeted the selection of
technologies that offered post-pandemic applications.
For example, the team vetted a contact tracing/social
distancing application that also has functionality
to alert individuals of at-risk ergonomic positions.
This
approach enabled quick response to address pandemic
technology needs, while establishing longer term
solutions that address EHS or operational needs.
We were able to quickly leverage available technology
solutions to support virtual auditing - this included
tools used by the site to present site activities
to the virtual
auditors, sharing of EHS ﬁles between the site and
virtual auditors, and conducting virtual interviews
with
standard owners.
Occupational Health
We have established appropriate Occupational Medical
Standards designed to assess medical surveillance
requirements/needs for employees potentially exposed
to chemical, physical and/or biological agents. The
Occupational Medical Standards work in concert with
the Colgate Industrial Hygiene Standards. Additionally,
our sites are required to adhere to all applicable
local legislative requirements.
Reducing Noise, Dust and Chemical Exposures
Colgate continues to strive to reduce noise, dust
and chemical exposures at
our facilities.  Our goal is to reduce the number
of people who must wear
hearing protection or chemical cartridge respirators
to reduce their exposure
below the applicable acceptable limit.
We continue to push towards reducing mandatory use
of hearing and
respiratory protection and have included this as an
element of the 2025
Sustainability Target, Striving for Zero Harm.
34
Critical Risk Top 10
In 2019, Colgate launched an enterprise-wide, integrated
EHS risk reduction strategy directed at minimizing
impacts of elements that have been historically linked
to adverse events and outcomes.  The program
challenges our sites globally to assess the state
of the current programs, assess risk and controls
in-place
and ensure the process is sustainable. Wherever possible,
sites are expected to leverage higher levels of
control to mitigate risk - engineering, substitution
and/or elimination. Despite the pandemic, sites are
tracking
towards closing the required elements.
Our global sites are working on a multi-year plan
to ensure that robust systems and controls are in
place to
address and mitigate potential risks.  Updates are
reported quarterly into a Corporate tracking system
and
presented at budget and business reviews.
Critical Risk Reduction initiative
Colgate’s plant in Rillieux, France provided training
on the proper use of
platforms for safely accessing the top of raw material
trucks during delivery.
The platform allows raw materials to oﬄoad in a
safer manner.
2020 Safety Week Highlights
Each year, we hold a company-wide Safety Week during
which we share best practices and refresh our
commitment to a robust health and safety culture grounded
in our EHS Guiding Principles. 2020 presented
unique challenges to implement Safety Week actions,
while maintaining social distancing and remaining
vigilant of the potential COVID-19 exposure risks.
Our sites generated impactful activities that focused
on
three primary themes: non-standard, non-routine tasks;
yard safety; and elevated noise. This week offers
an
opportunity for our sites to reinforce foundational
programs, and address global areas of focus.  Each
site’s
own culture drives a platform that helps sites reinvigorate
our value of Caring.
Our manufacturing facilities focused on learning about
non-standard & non-routine tasks in the manufacturing 
lines and reinforcing proper use of Jogging Systems
& Lockout Tagout
Guatemala City, Guatemala
Jaguare,
Brazil
35
Responsible Sour cing
Colgate’s
Third Party Code of Conduct
conveys our
expectations regarding the ethical conduct we expect
from our suppliers and business partners, and all
other third parties with whom we work. The strength
of our
reputation is based, not only on our own conduct,
but also on the actions of those with whom we do
business. For that reason, we aspire to work only
with third parties who share our values and reﬂect
the same
high ethical standards.
Colgate’s Third Party Code of Conduct establishes
our expectations for suppliers and business partners
in a
number of critical areas, including labor practices
and universal human rights, protecting the environment,
health and safety, and ethical dealings. Sections
of the Third Party Code are modeled on, or contain
language
from, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and
the standards of the International Labor Organization.
Assessing and Managing Supplier Risk
As a multinational company with a global supply chain,
adverse actions and events associated with our
supply chain could affect our reputation as a responsible
company. To manage the risk to the company and
to the workers in our supply chain, we have a formal
process to identify and manage social, ethical and
environmental risks in our supply chain and with other
business partners.
Colgate’s Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment
(SRSA) program requires selected suppliers and
business partners to complete a self-assessment focused
on labor practices, human rights, worker health
and safety, environmental management and business
integrity. Risk factors considered in the selection
of
suppliers to participate in the program include: geographic
risks (using the Verisk Maplecroft Risk Indexes),
Colgate’s in-country knowledge, industry-associated
risks and business criticality to our operations.
Through
the use of a supplier risk assessment scorecard, selected
suppliers and business partners are scored against
critical risk factors to determine the need to conduct
a social compliance audit. When a supplier is assessed
as high risk, a third-party audit of its facility
is required. Through the SRSA program, we have assessed
the
performance of more than 70 percent of our suppliers
in high-risk geographies since 2012, driving improved
working conditions for more than 155,000 employees
across our external supply chain. To date, there
are
currently
600
suppliers and service providers in the
program and
50%
have conducted a social compliance
audit.
As a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange
(Sedex), we use the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit
(SMETA) protocol when required to assess suppliers’
compliance with laws covering freedom of association,
forced and child labor, health and safety, wages and
beneﬁts, working hours and discrimination as well
as
environmental and business ethics matters. Since the
program’s inception in 2012, we have  assessed more
than 80 percent of our spend, including raw material
and packaging suppliers, contract manufacturers,
co-packing facilities and warehousing operations.
Beginning in late 2018, we expanded our risk assessment
scope to include third-party labor providers in our
Asia-Paciﬁc operations with other regions to be
included in
36subsequent years.  I
nternally, we have also completed assessments of all of our manufacturing facilities and
conducted social compliance audits at all facilities
located in high-risk geographies.
We are also a member of AIM-PROGRESS, a global industry
forum dedicated to the promotion of responsible
sourcing practices and sustainable production systems.Through
the principle of mutual audit recognition,
suppliers share noncompetitive audit data with other
manufacturing companies that often use the same
suppliers, enabling us to gain information more eﬃciently
and relieving the burden of “audit fatigue” on
suppliers.
To further drive improvement in our supply chain,
we have participated in AIM-PROGRESS capacity-building
sessions in Latin America and North America that are
designed to improve suppliers’ social and
environmental performance. In addition, we conduct
similar independent, responsible sourcing training
events for our suppliers.
We do not use forced labor within our own operations,
and we strive to eradicate forced labor from our
supply
and value chains. We are committed to the Consumer
Goods Forum (CGF) Resolution on Forced Labor and
the
Priority Industry Principles (PIP). We believe that
every worker should have freedom of movement, no
worker
should pay for a job and no worker should be indebted
or coerced to work.  Moreover, it is Colgate’s policy
not
to work with any supplier or contractor known to operate
with forced labor.
Our Global Procurement group is composed of dedicated
professionals in every division of the company. We
strive to develop relationships with suppliers that
will help us exceed our stakeholders’ expectations
for quality,
service, cost effectiveness, sustainability and innovation.
To learn more see Colgate’s
Procurement Policies
.
In June 2017, Colgate published our disclosure statement,
“Respecting Human Rights and Labor Rights:
Disclosure Statements
,”
in compliance with requirements
of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act
and the UK Modern Slavery Act and consistent with
the CGF Social Resolution.  In 2018, to further strengthen
our actions on ﬁghting forced labor, we revised our
employee
Code of Conduct
and our
Third Party Code
of
Conduct
to incorporate additional language reﬂecting
our expectations on respecting human and labor rights
and commitment to the CGF PIP.  In addition, we published
a
Third-Party Labor Provider Recruitment and
Employment Standard
and a labor provider risk assessment
methodology with the objective of establishing
expectations and evaluating the risk of forced labor
where third party employees, such as temporary workers,
are working in our operations.
Conﬂict Minerals
Colgate has a
Policy on Conﬂict Minerals
and supports
ending the violence and human rights violations by
armed groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)
and neighboring countries that have been funded in
part by proceeds from the mining of cassiterite, columbite-tantalite
(coltan), wolframite and gold, including
their derivatives tin, tantalum, and tungsten (3TGs).
37Oral Health E ducation
Our Position
As part of our 2020 Sustainability Strategy, we are
committed to contributing to the communities where
we live
and work. As a key part of this commitment, we bring
toothpaste, toothbrushes, oral health education,
free
dental screenings and treatment referrals to more
than 80 countries around the world through
Colgate
Bright
Smiles, Bright Futures
®
(BSBF), our ﬂagship corporate
responsibility initiative. In doing so, children
and their
families beneﬁt from improved health and Colgate
builds brand value by engaging with consumers in the
communities where they live.
The cornerstone of BSBF is its award-winning educational
curriculum. Developed by global experts, the
multicultural education materials help illustrate
how to maintain healthy teeth and gums and the curriculum
is
implemented in over 80 countries and 30 languages
each year. In several countries, the program materials
are
part of the permanent school curriculum.
Join our
Bright Smiles, Bright Futures®
team and
see how Colgate is
providing underserved children with the skills they
need to take care of
their smiles around the world.
Through meaningful partnerships with retailers, governments
and other key stakeholders, our BSBF program
strives to give access to children without basic dental
care and oral health education.
Six key initiatives drive the award-winning BSBF program:
1.
In-School
- We partner with local schools, Ministries
of Health and Ministries of Education to
organize oral health education classes and provide
products. In many countries, BSBF
materials have become part of the permanent school
curriculum.
2.
Community Relations
- In some countries, BSBF is mobile.
In the United States, BSBF’s ﬂeet of
nine mobile dental vans travel to rural and urban
communities to provide oral health
education, free dental screenings and treatment referrals
to underserved children, traveling to
over 1,000 towns and reaching more than ten million
children and families in a typical year.
38
3.
Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC)/Trade Partner
- With retail partners, such as
Walmart, BSBF engages consumers in stores and online.
4.
Professional Partnerships
- We partner with government
health agencies, non-proﬁt
organizations (NPOs) and dental associations to expand
the reach of oral care education
around the world.
5.
Digital
–
Educational resources
are provided both
in stores and online, including
downloadable
teachers’ guides,
story books
,
wall posters
,
family take home brochures
,
videos
,
songs
and
oral health games
.
6.
Employee Engagement
- We often involve our employees
in BSBF programs, providing
opportunities to volunteer in the community or to
teach their families about oral health.
In
2020, our employees worldwide continued to volunteer
through BSBF and give back to the
local communities where we do business.
Our Actions
Thanks to progress made
in 2020
, BSBF has reached
more than
1.3
billion children and their families
since
1991. This is made possible by partnering with educators,
parents, dental professionals, academic
institutions, government and non-proﬁt organizations,
such as the Alliance for a Cavity-Free Future (ACFF),
the American Dental Association (ADA), the Global
Child Dental Fund, the National Dental Association
(NDA) and Save the Children, among others.
Our employees ensure programs are tailored to local
markets and provide the resources, staff and
partnerships needed to make a lasting impact. For
example, we partner with Brazil’s Ministry of Health
to
train “Community Health Agents” to teach oral care
and handwashing education in the community. Over
35,000 agents have been trained since the program’s
inception in 2014, reaching over 14 million people
in
27 cities.
Our Results
Each year, we strive to reach over 60 million children
in nearly 300,000 schools around the world. In 2020,
we exceeded our goal and reached over 100 million
children. Over 25,000 dental professionals helped
us
reach an additional seven million children through
professional activities. We have reached over 1.3
billion
children since 1991. We are proud that in 2021, we
will celebrate 30 years of the BSBF program, which
builds “shared value” for both us and society, enabling
us to make a signiﬁcant impact in the communities
39where we live and work while engaging with consumers to build our brand value. The success of the BSBF
program makes us optimistic that real advances in
oral health are possible – now that’s something to
smile about!
2020 Highlights
●
In the United States
, BSBF repurposed its nine U.S.-based
mobile
dental vans to distribute 1.4 million bars of soap,
as well as other hygiene
products, to school districts and food banks to help
combat the spread of
COVID-19.
●
In Brazil
, BSBF worked with São Paulo's Secretary
of Education to
create free virtual classrooms to teach 3.5 million
public school children and
their families about the importance of toothbrushing
and handwashing. The
25-minute lessons
were broadcasted live with demonstrations
as part of
São Paulo's oﬃcial class schedule.
●
In North America
, BSBF introduced a new method of
education by joining classrooms across the
country virtually to continue providing important
oral health education. Known as a “Virtual Van Visit,”
the
program features different educational opportunities,
including brushing and ﬂossing demonstrations,
handwashing and virtual book reading, all catered
to meet the needs of the classroom and community.
In
less than six months, the team conducted over 500
Virtual Van Visit presentations, educating over 75,000
children and families on the importance of oral health.
●
In the Caribbean
, as classrooms across the islands
were shut down
due to the pandemic, BSBF was able to bring oral health
education to homes
through its
Sonrisas Brillantes
Virtual Club
. By partnering
with
local
inﬂuencers
, the team was able to create a digital
community and engage kids
and their families in hands-on activities via
Facebook
,
YouTube
and other
social media channels.
40
●
Globally,
we are expanding our partnership with
Save the
Children
, a leading humanitarian organization for
children and an
expert on child health, education and protection.
Together, we're
delivering on our BSBF growth goals, bringing more
bright smiles and
more bright futures to vulnerable children around
the world.
Partnerships
An important element of our sustainability and social
impact strategy is our engagement and
collaboration with external partners, which complement
our strong internal capabilities. These
partnerships are important to us to help us achieve
our ambitions in improving children’s dental hygiene.
41
Handwashing E ducation
The simple act of washing hands with soap is one of
the most effective ways to prevent  disease
transmission, especially among children. However,
handwashing with soap is not always widely
practiced. As a leading marketer of bar and liquid
hand soaps, we, through our  Protex, Palmolive and
Softsoap brands, are working with public health oﬃcials,
academia, local schools, and clinics to educate
millions of children and their families about the
health and hygiene beneﬁts of handwashing with soap.
Our global handwashing program provides educational
materials and sample products to schools and
communities, and builds awareness through advertising
and public relations campaigns. In some
countries, we teach handwashing as part of our Bright
Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) oral care education
program, building education about proper handwashing
into the oral care curriculum and messaging.
Like the oral care component of BSBF, the program
creates shared value for both our company and
society, helping to improve health outcomes while
building brand awareness and reputation for our
Palmolive and Protex soap brands. In 2020, we reached
more
than 28 million
people through advertising,
in store activation, social media campaigns, community
events, and Clean Hands, Good Health
preschool educational programs.
Our Personal Care Products Global Marketing and Insights
team hosted a global segmentation study
across the United States, Australia, Brazil and Spain
to identify the pain points of people with regards
to
hand health in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The team spent over 1,000 hours interviewing
people online and conducting a deep dive into peoples’
relationships with hand health. This provided key
insights to identify unmet user needs. This study
led to six global opportunity spaces and a partnership
with our research and development team to identify
future innovations.
Supporting Our Commitments
Colgate was one of the nine founding members of the
Global
Handwashing Day campaign with other organizations
such as the World
Bank and UNICEF. Celebrated on October 15th, Global
Handwashing Day
drives awareness of the vital importance of handwashing
with soap and
its impact on health.
●
In North America, we conducted campaigns to raise
awareness of the importance of
handwashing hygiene in preserving good health and
provide education in proper
handwashing techniques with our Softsoap and Irish
Spring brands. We reached 340 million
impressions through digital and public relations activity.
We partnered with local and national
charities to donate health and hygiene products, including
#SafeHands bars of soap. We
42
also worked through the BSBF oral education program to provide educational materials and
products to children and their families.
●
We are partnering with the
Global Handwashing Partnership
to
help build healthy, sustainable handwashing habits
among
children. We are featured in their newly-released
Handwashing
Handbook with a case study on the creation and distribution
of
our #SafeHands bars of soap and outreach efforts.
See the
news here
.
●
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we quickly mobilized
ﬁve
of our manufacturing plants on three continents to
produce more
than 26 million bars of specially packaged with instructions
on
proper handwashing. The soap bars were distributed
by our
network of partners to communities in 28 countries.
We reached
over 1.5 billion people on proper handwashing techniques
by
encouraging them to take the
#SafeHands Challenge
.
●
In Europe,
we reached more than 25 million people
through advertising,
media campaigns, community events, and educational
programs promoting
handwashing.
One example was our
10 day
celebration
around Global
Handwashing Day with Palmolive and Unicura brands.
We partnered with
retailers to raise awareness and reinforce good hygiene
habits among the
community. Handwashing stations were used to teach
proper techniques
and talk about the importance of hand hygiene in preserving
general health.
The engagement campaign included hundreds of stores,
online and social media, reaching
20,000 people.
●
In 2020, we reached 3.3 million people in Australia
and New Zealand, through advertising,
media campaigns, and educational programs in schools.
One example was through our
partnership with Woolworth Australia; engagement included
in-store campaigns providing
education and promoting handwashing awareness around
Global Handwashing Day.
43
●
Through the Palmolive brand’s Clean Hands, Good Health program in the
United Kingdom, we promote handwashing awareness to
children and their
families by providing pre-school education kits with
posters, storybooks and
teachers’ guides. The program also includes communications
through web
resources and online and social media engagement.
Each year, Clean Hands,
Good Health builds awareness around Global Handwashing
Day. In 2020, we
distributed 450,000 pre-school education kits, reaching
15,000 classrooms.
Helping P ets Find a Home
Hill’s mission is to help enrich and lengthen the
special relationship between people
and their pets. Through the Hill’s Food, Shelter &
Love™ program, we partner with
animal shelters across the U.S. to provide discounted
Hill’s pet food, training, digital
tools and content, as well as shelter visuals. For
pet owners, Hill’s provides Science
Diet adoption kits with coupons and access to a new
pet parent website. Hill’s
believes the combination of loving shelter care as
well as premium nutrition helps to
make pets healthy and happy so they are ready to go
to their forever home.
In 2020,
through this partnership with animal shelters, we
provided pet food with a retail value of more than
$3.9
m
illion,
and helped more than
578,000
dogs and cats
find new homes.
Hill’s also partners to provide emergency pet food
shipments to shelters, veterinary hospitals
and other
non-profits caring for pets in the aftermath of d
isasters
through its Disaster Relief Network. In
2020,
Hill’s
responded to
17 e
mergencies across the U.S. and shipped
over
777,000 po
unds of pet food to more
than
253
unique organizations in the affected communities.
This included more than 500,000 pounds of
pet food provided directly for COVID-19 relief, much
of which was distributed through community pet
food pantries to help keep pets with their families
during the pandemic.
2020 Highlights
●
Hill’s partnered with The Association for Animal Welfare
Advancement
and Humane Canada t
o
provide
over $480,000 in grants
to more than 80
animal
shelters
impacted by COVID-19
in the U.S. and
Canada.
In Italy, Hill’s has donated 2325 kg of nutritional
support to facilities in the northern Lombardy
region. In
Brazil
, we've donated six months of food
to under-resourced pet shelters. Learn more about
the
Hill's response to COVID-19
here
.
44
●
In 2020, hundreds of HIll’s and Colgate People across the U.S. supported Hill’s efforts to help
more
than
140,000
p
ets find loving homes in August
as Hill’s
again served as a national sponsor of NBCUniversal’s
“Clear The Shelters” nationwide pet adoption campaign.
Virtual volunteers raised awareness for local shelters
and
highlighted Hill’s longstanding
Food, Shelter & Love
program.
The program has helped more than 11 million
pets find homes since 2002 and aims to reach 15 million
by 2025. Check out this
LinkedIn article
to learn
more
about Hill’s commitment to pets in need.
Community Giving
Colgate is a caring, innovative growth company that’s
reimagining a healthier future for all people, their
pets and our planet. To help fulfill our purpose,
we provide financial and in-kind donations to nonprofit
organizations around the world, and our people contribute
their time and talent through
Colgate-sponsored volunteer activities, such as our
annual “Colgate Cares Day.”
Colgate’s focus areas include:
1.
Achieving a zero cavity future;
2.
Creating educational pathways for diverse and underrepresented
secondary students and
professionals, including dentists, dental hygienists
and veterinarians;
3.
Providing Food, Shelter & Love for pets everywhere;
4.
Exercising strong environmental stewardship; and
5.
Providing disaster relief & emergency care in Colgate
communities.
2020 Contributions  approximately $57 million*
* Cash and in-kind contributions to charitable organizations,
including
spending for the Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program
in Colgate’s 20
largest subsidiaries ( by oral care sales)
45
Below are some examples of how we are already hard at work pursuing our goals.
●
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic,
we quickly mobilized
ﬁve of
our manufacturing plants on three continents to produce
and
donate more than 26 million bars of soap specially
packaged with
instructions on proper handwashing. The soap bars
were
distributed by our network of partners to communities
in 28
countries. We
reached over 1.5 billion people on proper
handwashing techniques by encouraging them to take
the
#SafeHands Challenge
.
●
$1 million contribution to The University of Pennsylvania
Dental School of Medicine to create
the
Colgate Innovation Laboratory
, helping to advance
the dental care of people with
disabilities.
●
$210,000 to initiate the endowed Freeman, Grant, Franklin
Scholarship at Harvard School of
Dental Medicine, named in recognition of prominent
African American dentists and in
support
of students regardless of their ﬁnancial means
.
●
$25,000 to endow The Rutgers School of Dental Medicine’s
New Horizons Program, in
memory of the late Colgate executive Dr. Anthony Volpe,
to introduce students to
non-traditional oral healthcare careers
.
●
Founded in 1973, the Colgate Women’s Games is the
largest indoor amateur track series for girls from
elementary school through college and beyond in the
U.S. This program has helped young girls and women
develop a strong sense of personal achievement and
self-esteem, value teamwork and appreciate the
importance of education.
Colgate covers all costs
associated with the games and provides educational
grants-in-aid. In 2020, we
decided to
postpone
the games for the health and safety of its
community, and our team is working hard
to enhance the beneﬁts of the program and
stay connected
with the Colgate Women’s Games
community.
46
●
For the past 2 years, Colgate has supported 60 water wells at schools
in 5 counties (Kisumu, Siaya, Kakamega, Migori and
Kwale) working
with WellBoring, a UK Non Governmental Organisation
(NGO). The
partnership has beneﬁted approximately 60,000 lives.
Due to the
severity of the water challenge across rural communities,
in 2021
Colgate aims to donate a further
30 Water Wells
where
thousands of
pupils, their teachers, and their families may all
gain access to clean
drinking water.
●
To help aid healthcare professionals on the front
lines, Tom's of
Maine donated $60,000 and nearly $500,000 worth of
personal care products to Direct Relief,
a humanitarian organization providing protective gear
and supplies to communities hardest
hit by COVID-19. The organization is also supporting
50 small businesses across the U.S.
through its
#NatureNurtures
video experiences to help
us all feel more connected, mindful
and healthy. Learn more
here
.
●
Our caring value was put to work in the wake of the
recent hurricanes Iota and Eta in Central
America. Our teams
in Honduras, Guatemala and Nicaragua
mobilized quickly to help those affected, working
with local
relief organizations to donate much-needed oral care,
personal
care and home care products. And, in the Philippines,
where we
endured Typhoon Vamco, our teams donated products
through
local non-governmental organizations and offered an
employee
donation match to assist affected families.
Our product donation ﬁnds a home in Guatemala.
●
There was plenty of optimism in action during Colgate
Cares Day this year as the U.S. pivoted
to virtual volunteering. Hundreds of Colgate People
in New York and New Jersey had the
opportunity to volunteer in our communities with nonproﬁt
organizations to connect us to our
neighbors and to projects that serve those in need.
1,500 New York-area employees had the
opportunity to participate in a virtual test-and-learn
pilot,
including our Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer , Noel Wallace
.
47
Our Performance
Learn about the pr ogress we ’ve made on our 2020 Sustainability
Performance Commitments.
Colgate Global Br ands
48
People-Driv en Inno vation
Colgate delights people with innovative products that
meet their needs, exceed their expectations and
add value to their lives. Our six consumer innovation
centers rely on local insights from around the  world
to launch new products and product updates every year.
Stronger people engagement begins with better insights.
We are committed to listening to and engaging
with existing and potential users and buyers around
the world. To ensure that our commercial teams
stay close to the users of our products, we engaged
in virtual “Getting Out of the Oﬃce” (GOOTO)
programs that help deepen our understanding of local
tastes and habits across categories.
Amid our global response to COVID-19, our India insights
team explored alternative methods to continue
to engage and stay connected with the community. The
GOOTO program consisted of virtual home
visits, aimed at keeping us connected with people
and listening to how these uncertain times were
impacting their daily lives. One-on-one interactions
took place virtually on a regular basis. Discussions
ranged from parenting, work and ﬁnances to entertainment
and shopping.
People are at the center of everything we do. Colgate’s
Consumer Affairs teams act as consumer
advocates, providing consumers’ perspectives, desires
and concerns to the rest of the organization.
Colgate’s marketing executives are able to hear consumer
calls so they can get closer to what people
want and need, and ensure company activities are designed
to meet them. We have even set up a
“listening post” in our research center; our scientists
can “listen” to social media interactions in real
time,
enabling them to get closer to the people for whom
they develop products.
Colgate’s Consumer Affairs teams manage consumer relations
around the world. This team strives to
provide the very best consumer care, so that it is
easy for people to reach us, have their messages
heard
and problems solved.
We have state-of-the-art contact centers, where we
optimize the latest service tools and training so
every
person contacting us has the very best individualized
experience. In many parts of the world, people can
now engage with us via the communication channels
that are most accessible and convenient for them -
whether via traditional methods, such as phone calls,
or newer, real-time methods, such as social media,
chat and mobile messaging. Our team regularly captures,
evaluates, and responds to people who leave
ratings and reviews on our websites and various e-commerce
sites, so we can ensure we are always in
touch with any feedback people have about our products.
As artiﬁcial intelligence technology is rapidly
developing, we are constantly looking for ways to
leverage it to enhance and extend our support
programs.
49As COVID-19 began to spread, our Consumer Affairs teams were there for people - providing
reassurance about our products, directing people to credible sources for information about the
pandemic, helping them ﬁnd the right products to
clean themselves and their homes, and being a
listening ear for them to express their concerns and
questions. Our business continuity plans and
state-of-the-art technology ensured that access to
our front-line teams was minimally disrupted, and
we
transitioned quickly to remote working in affected
areas, so we could do our part to keep our employees
safe. We also shared consumers’ perspectives, wants
and needs with the rest of the company so we
could act quickly to address them, whether it was
optimizing our supply chain to get more product out
in
the market, updating the information provided on our
product labels, conducting testing on our product
beneﬁts and performance or developing new products
to address emerging needs.
There is increasing attention being given to concerns
over consumer data protection and privacy. We
know that when people provide us with personal information,
we have to safeguard it and treat it
responsibly. We are very careful about how we collect,
use and store personal data, and have recently
updated our Privacy Policy, making it readily available
on our websites around the world. Our Privacy
Policy can be viewed
here
.
2020 Highlights
Our Plaqless Pro Smart Electric Toothbrush features
optic sensor
technology that detects bioﬁlm buildup so it can
be removed while
brushing. The technology provides precise information
in real time that is
speciﬁc to each mouth and the distinct brushing technique
of every
individual.
This new generation of Protex is powered by a breakthrough
technology --
discovered and developed in-house -- that incorporates
ﬂaxseed oil to boost
your skin’s natural defenses, working in sync with
your body. Protex with
ﬂaxseed oil still eliminates 99.9% of bacteria.
50
Product Sustainability at Colgate
Product sustainability at Colgate means a continued
commitment to safe, sustainable, high-quality
products that consumers can trust. As part of our
sustainability strategy, we are committed to increasing
the sustainability proﬁle in all new products. Consumers
increasingly demand products that meet their
needs, provide a positive social impact and have a
reduced environmental footprint.
Driving Sustainability Through Our Categories
We are embedding sustainability across our Oral
Care category. Our products and oral health
education programs are designed to improve
oral health around the world and help reduce
cavities, one of the most chronic global
diseases.
We also promote water conservation
awareness to consumers, encouraging them to
turn off the faucet when brushing their teeth. We
are also making improvements in our Personal
Care category, from improving ingredient
biodegradability and moving toward more
sustainable preservative systems to optimizing
packaging size and improving packaging
recyclability. We are educating millions of
children and their families around the world
about the importance of handwashing with
soap, and are also working to reduce our carbon
and water footprint.
In our Home Care category, we are increasing
the use of recycled and recyclable plastics in our
packaging and improving the ingredient
sustainability proﬁle of our products, including
eliminating formaldehyde donors and reducing
volatile organic compounds to improve air
quality. We are also helping consumers save
energy and water with our cleaning products.
Hill’s Pet Nutrition is working to improve
packaging recyclability, reduce its operational
footprint, and provide pet food to shelters at a
discount to help millions of dogs and cats ﬁnd
their forever homes. Hill’s is also leading the way
to Working Towards Zero Waste at Colgate. Our
ﬁrst four “Total Resource Use and Eﬃciency”
Zero Waste certiﬁed factories were Hill’s
factories. Today, 100% of our Hill’s factories are
TRUE® Zero Waste certiﬁed.
51Impr oving the Pr oduct Sustainability Pr oﬁle of Our Pr oducts
Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard is intended
to measure the progress of our goals to increase
the sustainability in our products by 2020. Our product
sustainability key performance indicators are
focused on three areas: Packaging, Formula and Social
Impact. Through cross-functional collaboration
across the Colgate world, we continue to make progress
and 99 percent of new products in 2020 have
improved sustainability proﬁles.
(1)
______________________________________________________________________________________________
(1)
The per formance r esults ar e based on r epresentativ e
products fr om the pr oduct por tfolio (ex cluding our
recently acquir ed
EltaMD , Filor ga, hello and PCA Skin businesses) e valuated
against compar able Colgate pr oducts acr oss thr ee
impact ar eas t o
char acteriz e likely impr ovement in the sustainability
proﬁle, based on r eview of quantitativ e and qualitativ e
data.
2020 Product Highlights
52
Delivering
Safe & Sustainable Ingr edients
Product Safety and Quality
We continuously monitor and evaluate the safety of
our ingredients, and we actively engage with outside
experts and resources to understand emerging science
and deepen our knowledge. We also comply with
all aspects of the European Union’s REACH regulation
(Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and
Restriction of Chemical substances). To learn more
about the science behind our products, please visit
the
Scientiﬁc Excellence
section of our website,
our
Ingredient Safety Policy
and the
Ingredient Safety
section.
Product Safety Testing
Colgate has a longstanding policy to minimize and
ultimately eliminate animal testing associated with
development of oral care, personal care and home care
products. Central to this commitment are our
more than 35-year-long efforts to encourage the development
of alternatives that are scientiﬁcally valid
and can be accepted by scientiﬁc regulators.
We are a leader in promoting, encouraging and participating
in the development, validation and
acceptance of non-animal testing methods worldwide,
investing more than $1 million dollars annually on
research into non-animal alternatives. Globally, there
are circumstances when regulatory agencies
require animal testing of oral care, personal care
and home care products. In such limited instances,
the
tests are conducted at external testing facilities
that meet strict government standards and the rigorous
requirements that were established by Colgate with
input from animal welfare groups. The exception to
this is regulatory agency mandated testing in China
which must be conducted in government labs.
Our
global presence affords us a unique opportunity to
help foster acceptance of non-animal alternatives
by
regulatory agencies around the world.
In addition, we support the European Partnership for
Alternative to Animals, the Johns Hopkins Center
for Alternatives to Animal Testing and the Institute
for In Vitro Science, which are organizations that
are
focused on developing and/or promoting the use of
non-animal methods.  We are looking for
opportunities to expand and foster non-animal alternative
testing research, and Colgate actively shares
its work to reduce animal use and develop alternatives
so that this information can help others minimize
53animal use. Colgate is also a strong supporter of education in this ﬁeld and partners with the Society of
Toxicology to provide grants for student internships,
post-doctoral fellowships and research grants to
further promote the ﬁeld of alternatives to animal
research.
Hill’s uses only non-invasive, humane research methods
to
develop superior nutritional technology so that dogs
and cats live
long, healthy lives. Importantly, Hill’s believes
that any procedure
that causes pain to people also causes pain to animals
and
therefore is not permitted. Hill’s does not create
or simulate
disease conditions in animals and does not conduct
a study
where euthanasia is the end point. Hill’s breakthroughs
in pet
nutrition are unmatched in the pet food industry,
and it has built its
business and reputation on always practicing the highest
ethical
standards. Hill’s publishes its
animal welfare policy
on its website, which governs all studies Hill’s
conducts or supports.
For more information on our Product Safety Research
Policy and other policies, visit
our website
.
Ingredient Transparency
We recognize consumers want to know more about the
ingredients in the products they use. Colgate
continues to be an active participant in SmartLabel™,
a digital platform co-created by the Consumer
Brands Association (formerly GMA) and the Food Marketing
Institute (FMI) in conjunction with
manufacturers and retailers to inform consumers about
what is in their products and why. SmartLabel
provides a wide range of product details that cannot
ﬁt on a package label. It goes beyond the label
to
tell consumers not just what ingredients are included
in their products; it explains what those ingredients
are, why they are in the product, and what they do.
SmartLabel was designed to match how people use
information and technology today. Thus, consumers
can access SmartLabel at home and on-the-go
while creating a shopping list on their phone or when
making a purchase decision in  the store.
In 2020, in the
United Kingdom
and in the
United States
,
we continue to increase transparency in oral
care, disclosing all ingredients per regulatory requirements,
consumer friendly product descriptions and
ﬂavor components that are greater than or equal to
100ppm.
54
Deliv ering Mor e Sustainable P ackaging
The Colgate brand is in more homes than any other,
so we can and we will create a healthier, more
sustainable future for all. As we reﬂect on our achievements
against our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability
Strategy, we are looking ahead to beginning our journey
toward accomplishing our 2025 sustainability
mission, with an action aimed at eliminating plastic
waste.
Our 2025 packaging sustainability strategy focuses
on sourcing packaging responsibly, delivering eﬃcient
and beneﬁcial designs, advancing circular systems
and inspiring positive behavior. To achieve this
we will
need unprecedented collaboration with a diversity
of partners.
Colgate’s 2025 packaging sustainabilit
y strate
gy centers
around the following actions:
●
Eliminate unnecessary and problematic packaging
●
Make all our packaging recyclable, reusable or compostable
●
Reduce use of new (virgin) plastic by a third in packaging
●
Use at least 25% post-consumer recycled plastic in
packaging
●
Minimize the volume and weight of packaging required
to label and protect our products.
Information on our progress against our 2020 packaging
goals follows, we are providing examples based
on the country where we manufacture the products.
EXIT PVC
We continue working towards our commitment to exit
PVC. As of year-end 2020, we have eliminated using
PVC in
99.7
percent of our packaging by weight. In
addition, we have developed plans to exit the remaining
uses where there is a technical challenge related
to product safety (containers).
In 2020
, we reduced
our
PVC use by
547 tons.
EXAMPLES
In 2020, we converted packaging out of PVC:
●
In Australia, we changed the pouch material of Fluffy/Cuddly
pouches.
55
●
In Pakistan, we changed the sleeves of Max
Dish Paste.
●
In India and Guatemala, we replaced PVC with PET in
toothbrush blisters for individual packs.
●
In Mexico, we changed the liner of
Palmolive Neutro Balance 450g.
IMPRO VE RECY CLABILI TY
Colgate’s targets regarding recyclability (including
ﬁber, plastic, metal and glass) are:
●
All packaging recyclable in Personal Care, Home Care
and Pet Nutrition by 2020
●
All packaging recyclable, reusable, or compostable
for all categories by 2025
As of
2020,
approximately
91
percent of packaging
by weight is technically recyclable in our Personal
Care, Home Care and Pet Nutrition categories. When
Oral Care packaging (including for toothbrushes)
is
added, our packaging recyclability company-wide is
83
percent. This does not, however, include our
recently acquired  eltaMD, Filorga, hello and PCA
Skin businesses, and co-packers.
Transition to monomaterial ﬂexibles and recyclable
dispensing systems are industry-wide challenges and
we continue working to develop solutions. In addition,
we continue the transition out of opaque PET
bottles and the implementation of shrink sleeves with
perforated tear tabs to direct consumers to remove
the sleeve at end of use to improve bottle recycling.
In 2018, we joined the
Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s
(EMF), New Plastics Economy initiative, reﬂecting
our
commitment to 100% recyclability of packaging across
all of our product categories and our target to
achieve 25% post-consumer recycled content in all
plastic packaging by 2025. Annually, we report to
the
EMF on our plastic usage, the percentage of recyclable
plastic packaging and the percentage of post
consumer recycled content used in our packaging.
Read
more about our
2019 progress here
.
56
EXAMPLES
In 2020,
we replaced opaque colored PET in the following
bottles:
●
In Brazil, Protex liquid hand soap 250ml moved to
a HDPE white bottle
and Ola 1L moved to clear PET.
●
In the U.S., Murphy's Oil Soap
Squirt and Mop Wood Floor Cleaner 32oz
moved to tinted green PET and Irish Spring 18oz body
wash moved to coloured HDPE bottles.
●
In Mexico, Palmolive Optims shampoo 680, 700ml, 400ml,
200ml and
180ml moved to clear PET and Palmolive Hydra Natura
body cream 400ml moved
to HDPE white.
●
In Thailand, Palmolive Expertique Oil moved to
clear PET & Serum moved to a HDPE colored bottle.
In
that same country, we also converted the Mouthwash
Colgate Plax Gentle Care & Complete Care 250ml and
500ml bottles to clear PET with perforated shrink
sleeves.
●
In Europe, Ajax cleaner 1, 1.25 and 1.5L moved from
white and yellow
colored PET to clear bottles with perforated shrink
sleeves.
57
I
n 2020, the following packaging design improvements made the following products technically recyclable:
●
We included perforations in sleeves of Fabric Softener
Cuddly 850ml and 1L in Australia,
Suavitel 750ml,  800ml, 1.3L in Mexico and 850ml in
Guatemala and Palmolive Combing
Cream 150ml in Brazil.
●
We removed the plastic lamination from the ﬁber based
cartons used for Protex and
Palmolive bar soap in Mexico, Brazil and Thailand
and we began the transition to paper
wrapper in Turkey for bar soaps.
●
In Guatemala, we converted the ﬁlm used in Axion
115g disc dish
bar to monomaterial ﬁlm.
●
In Brazil, we also removed the plastic lamination
from ﬁber based cartons used for Colgate Sensitive
and
Triple Action Xtra toothpaste.
58
PLASTIC REDUC TION
To contribute to eliminating plastic waste, our 2025
goal is to reduce our use of new (virgin) plastics
in
packaging by one third versus our 2019 baseline. Achieving
this target will require cross-functional
collaboration and the development of alternative materials,
establishing new reuse/reﬁll models,
innovative new product forms, reducing plastic weight
and increasing the use of recycled content. A few
recent examples are described below.
In France, Ploof by Ajax was launched offering
recyclable packaging. Consumers buy one reusable
spray bottle, ﬁll it with water at home and plop
in an
effervescent tablet that transforms the liquid into
an
Ajax multipurpose cleaner. When they need more
cleaner, they need only to buy more Ajax tablets,
packed in paper sachets.
●
In the U.S., we have launched Tom’s of
Maine Natural Strength deodorant in
ﬁber-based packaging.
●
In the U.S., we have launched Swish by Colgate mouthwash
in a
recyclable aluminium bottle.
INCREASE RECY CLED CON TEN T
Colgate’s end of 2020 goal was to increase recycled
content in our packaging (all materials including
ﬁber
based, plastic, metal and glass) to 50 percent on
average, and our 2025 goal focuses on increasing
post-consumer recycled content for plastic to 25 percent.
59
Regarding our 2020 full-year consumption of recycled content in overall packaging, we averaged across
the year at 49%, but the snapshot at the end of the year wa
s 52 percent recycled content.
Our 2020
full-year consumption of post-consumer recycled plastic
in packaging was
10
percent.
As we continue to work to increase post-consumer recycled
plastics, we will continue to increase recycled
content in our overall packaging.
We increased recycled content in the corrugated boxes
we use to ship
our:
●
Home Care products in the U.S., Guatemala, Italy,
Brazil,
Greece and France
●
Personal Care products in the U.S., Italy, Brazil,
Turkey and
Thailand
●
Oral Care products in Poland, Brazil and Thailand
We increased recycled content in our toothpaste cartons
across
brands in Guatemala, Brazil, Argentina, Poland, Thailand
and
Myanmar.
We implemented 100% recycled content in PET bottles
in the following products:
●
Soupline Douceur d'Origine Fabric Softener Végétale
650 mL, 1L and
1.3L bottles in Europe
●
Palmolive Ultra Dish Liquid 8, 10, 17, 20, 32.5, 34,
40, 46 and
52oz bottles in the U.S.
60
●
Palmolive Liquid Hand Soap Reﬁll 750ml, Palmolive
Body Wash 250ml and 500ml, Palmolive Aquarium 300
and
500ml in Europe
●
Ajax 1, 1.25 and 1.5L cleaner bottles in Europe
●
Fabuloso and Ajax 500ml, 1L and 2L cleaner bottles
in Colombia
●
Fabuloso 450ml, 900ml  and 2L cleaner bottles in Guatemala
●
Colgate Smile for Good mouthwash 500ml bottle in Thailand
We increased recycled content in PET bottles in the
following products:
We increased recycled content in our PET bottles from
0 to 39% in
Shampoo Palmolive Optims 200ml, 400ml and 700ml bottles
and
Palmolive Caprice 200ml and 760ml bottles and we increased
recycled
content from 25 to 50% in Dish Liquid Axion 280ml,
400ml, 640, 750 and
900ml bottles and Cleaner Fabuloso 500ml, 22oz, 28oz,
1L, 48oz, 1.7L,
2L and 67oz bottles in Mexico.
61
We also implemented recycled content in HDPE bottles in the following products:
●
We went from 0 to 50% recycled content in Fabric Softener
Suavitel Complete Fresh
Spring 1L bottles in Colombia.
●
We moved from opaque PET bottles with 35% recycled
content to
HDPE bottles with 50% recycled content for Body Wash
Irish Spring
18oz in Mexico.
MINIMIZE WEIGH T AND V OLUME
Colgate strives to use the minimum amount of packaging
required to label and protect our products. We
recognize the importance of reducing waste at every
stage of the product life-cycle, including at the
end-of-use of our products and packaging. Read more
on our programs to collect packaging waste and
our commitment to work with stakeholders to drive
continuous improvement in local recycling systems
in
Reducing Consumer Waste
.
●
In the U.S., we worked to optimise the packaging for
the Speed Stick Deodorant for
Men, this allowed us to reduce our plastic consumption
by 920 tons on an annual
basis.
●
In Europe, we moved Cleaner Ajax 1, 1.25 and 1.5L
to a new
bottle that allowed us to include recycled content
and to
reduce 390 tons of plastic on an annual basis.
●
In Mexico, we reduced the weight of the cap used in
Fabric Softener
Suavitel 450ml, which reduced our plastic consumption
by 72 tons.
●
In China and Thailand, we were able to reduce
430 tons of the ﬁber-based packaging used for
special packs of Colgate toothpaste.
62
HIGHLIGHTS
●
Colgate’s ﬁrst-of-its-kind recyclable toothpaste
tube, ﬁrst launched with Tom’s
of Maine in the U.S. in November 2019, has so far
been introduced in ﬁve
divisions under the Colgate brand. We are making signiﬁcant
progress in our
efforts to transform the toothpaste category and,
and, so far, have shared our
tube technology through at least 40 sessions with
the packaging industry,
NGOs and other consumer product companies. Tubes are
one of the largest
categories of plastic packaging that until now could
not be recycled. Colgate
engineers created a new plastic laminate tube using
high density polyethylene
(HDPE), the same plastic used to make bottles. By
transforming sheets of this
rigid plastic into a soft, squeezable tube that can
be recycled along with plastic bottles, we are
making the tube a part of the circular economy within
the existing recycling infrastructure. Our tube
is the ﬁrst tube to be recognized by the Association
of Plastic Recyclers (APR) in North America and
RecyClass in Europe.
●
This “reverse vending machine” offers Tenda Atacado
shoppers in Brazil a
convenient place to insert recyclable material and
receive beneﬁts like
coupons, discounts to their electric bills, cash back
or the option to donate
to NGOs. It’s also an attractive promotional vehicle
for Colgate Natural
Extracts toothpaste, now packaged in our ﬁrst-of-its-kind
recyclable tubes
which are accepted by the machine.
●
In Colombia, we partnered with Ecobot, implementing
similar
“reverse
vending machines,”
encouraging consumers to deposit
their empty
recyclable bottles and ﬂexible packaging, and receive
a ticket with a cash
discount on their next Colgate-Palmolive product purchase.
●
We have been recognized by the Association of Plastic
Recyclers (APR) as one of the companies
that increased use of post-consumer recycled content
contributing to their Recycling Demand
Champions program.  For more information, please review
this
link
.
63
●
We are members of the U.S. Plastics Pact, a collaborative effort led by The Recycling Partnership
and World Wildlife Fund, part of the Ellen MacArthur
Foundation’s global Plastics Pact network. The
U.S. Plastics Pact brings together businesses, government
entities, NGOs, researchers and other
stakeholders who work collectively toward a common
vision of a circular economy for plastics, as
outlined by the Foundation’s
New Plastics Economy
Initiative
. This
vision
aims to ensure that plastics never become waste
by
eliminating the plastics we do not need, innovating
to ensure that the
plastics we do need are reusable, recyclable or compostable,
and
circulating all the plastic items we use to keep them
in the economy
and out of the environment.
Partnerships
We are encouraged by the progress we have made and
the fast start we are off to, bu
t
creating a
sustainable and circular economy is a journey, and
our collective work towards our 2020 goals showed
us
the effort and impact required to transform our portfolio
of products. We cannot do it alone, and are proud
of the partnerships that have evolved through our
strategy work.
64
Providing Access t o Affor dable Pr oducts
Product sustainability at Colgate also means a commitment
to providing affordable product options in
our portfolio. Our goal is to expand access to affordable
health and wellness products for millions of
people in underserved communities. We make products
more affordable while maintaining quality with
smaller sizes, reﬁll packages and value options.
We distribute our products broadly to give more
consumers access to our goods. Offerings are customized
to best reach consumers within their
socioeconomic level, available household income and
speciﬁc consumer needs. We are also ﬁnding
ways to offer the beneﬁts of more premium products
at affordable price points.
Globally, we strategically balance Colgate’s portfolio
between base and premium tiers as appropriate for
the particular region. This starts with consumer panels
and research that gives us an in-depth
understanding of the local market. Many people around
the world do not have access to basic dental
care and education. As a leading provider of oral
care products, Colgate has the unique ability to address
this major social issue and to improve the oral health
of families around the world.
Our team in Colombia turned to technology to ﬁnd
a better way to connect with smaller convenience
stores in the cities, small towns and rural areas
throughout the region. Teams based in Cali and
Bogotá
partnered with two innovative startups to introduce
apps that provided a direct, seamless interface
between manufacturers like Colgate and local shopkeepers
enabling us to provide customized plans
using powerful shopper data — improvements that will
help us to reach 21,000 small stores owners.
Partnering with Cust omers
We partner with hundreds of thousands of retail stores
to sell Colgate products around the world.
Treating all retail customers with fairness and integrity
is a priority. We engage our customers worldwide
by sharing unique shopper insights, providing innovative
in-store marketing communications and
merchandising techniques, and developing and executing
joint business planning initiatives. These
activities ensure the right product assortment at
each location and help to make shopping a
consumer-friendly, enjoyable experience that drives
increased sales for both Colgate and the retailer.
To ensure continued success, we track retailer satisfaction
in 20 of Colgate’s largest subsidiaries every
two years. The Company participates in a widely used
industry standard syndicated survey run by the
Advantage Group. The objective is to measure our customer
engagement with the goal of strengthening
our performance across key markets and building robust
action plans based on the survey feedback.
65Colgate also partners with key customers to advance our mutual sustainability goals. We often partner
with retailers to engage consumers with programs,
such as our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures oral health
education program, Operation Smile and TerraCycle®.
Colgate continues to partner with
eco-innovator TerraCycle® in ﬁve markets: the
United States, Australia, New Zealand, the
United Kingdom and China. TerraCycle®
recycles oral care packaging collected at
schools, stores and other locations into new
and affordable eco-friendly products. Through
this global partnership, we actively engaged in
recycling, helping us to divert waste to landﬁlls.
Participating locations are also able to raise
funds for schools and charities of their choice
as an incentive for recycling.
66
Our Planet
Learn about the progress we’ve made on our 2020 Sustainability
Planet Commitments.
Our Commitment t o No Defor estation
Deforestation is one of our key sustainability issues.
It is critical from a business, social, environmental
and reputational risk standpoint. Our policies and
commitments help us manage the deforestation risks
in our supply chain for pulp and paper, palm oil and
its derivatives, soy and soy oil, and beef tallow.
In line
with Colgate’s values, we are committed to protecting
the global environment, enhancing the
communities where people live, and operating in compliance
with government laws and regulations.
Because we share a vision with our key stakeholders
for a future without deforestation, we are
committed to being transparent with our employees,
shareholders, suppliers, NGOs and other
stakeholders about our commitments, challenges and
the progress we have made in this area.
We continue to make signiﬁcant progress in policy
development on commodity sourcing and our actions
toward ending deforestation. Contributing to this
progress in 2020 is our active membership in the
Consumer Goods Forum’s (CGF) recently established
Forest Positive Coalition of Action
. As a member
of the Coalition, we have been actively engaged in
the development of commodity roadmaps, tools and
guidance supporting supplier engagement, No Deforestation,
No Planting on Peat and No Exploitation
(NDPE) policy implementation as well as deforestation
monitoring and response with suppliers and our
upstream supply chain. We believe the implementation
of an effective deforestation program is critical
so that we can manage the impact our activities have
on ecosystems and habitats, meet stakeholders’
expectations, protect our reputation and comply with
regulations.
Driving Sustainable Sour cing
As a global manufacturer we have global value chains
and are aware of our responsibility to engage our
suppliers in our targets. We have a clear commitment
to achieve net zero deforestation and will prioritize
two of our main commodities, palm and soy. We strive
to accelerate industry transformation through
collaboration with our suppliers and partners to improve
the entire value chain of our products.
Included below are the key elements detailing our
approach and progress for the key commodities
included under Colgate’s no deforestation program:
palm oil, soy, pulp and paper, and tallow.
67Palm Oil and Deriv atives
Palm oil is the most widely produced vegetable oil
in the world and continues to grow in its use, replacing
other vegetable oils. More than 80 percent of the
world’s palm oil comes from Indonesia and Malaysia,
where land is sometimes converted from forest to palm
plantations, resulting in greenhouse gas
emissions, impacts on biodiversity and social issues
linked to deforestation.
Colgate uses palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm oil
derivatives in some of our soap products,
toothpastes, antiperspirants, deodorants and household
cleaners.
Colgate has speciﬁc commitments to source palm oil,
palm kernel oil and palm derivatives that are
responsibly produced and that can be traced from plantation
to product. As we strive for zero
deforestation in our palm oil operations and activities,
we will partner with stakeholders and our
suppliers to build a transparent global supply chain
that meets the following criteria:
●
No deforestation of High Carbon Stock (HCS) forest
●
No deforestation of High Conservation Value (HCV)
areas
●
No use of ﬁre for land clearance
●
No new development on peat lands, regardless of depth
●
Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
●
No exploitation of people or local communities
Eliminating deforestation and exploitation in the
palm oil supply chain is very complex and requires
many activities working together to create a solution;
this includes the sourcing of certiﬁed sustainable
palm oil, traceability of palm oil back to the mills
and plantations, engagement with suppliers and the
upstream supply chain on performance against our policy
and engagement in on the ground sector or
landscape projects working with smallholders and local
communities and government to drive
sustainable change in the palm oil industry.
For 2020, we continue to increase our percentage of
physically certiﬁed palm oil, palm kernel oil and
palm oil derivatives targeting more than 80 percent
of volumes physically certiﬁed and more than 95
percent of our direct volumes traceable to the origin
mill. Colgate also continues to support on the
ground transformation projects in Indonesia, Malaysia
and Latin America.  To better understand our
work on palm oil and for updates on our activities,
please see our speciﬁc policy on
Responsible and
Sustainable Sourcing of Palm Oils
.
68Soy
Colgate uses soy and soy oil as ingredients in certain
products. We currently source these materials from
the United States and South America. The United States,
Brazil and Argentina account for more than 70
percent of the global soy supply. In Brazil, soy production
has been linked to deforestation of highly
biodiverse forest regions and its cultivation has
contributed signiﬁcantly to the clearance of the
Amazon
forest, the Cerrado, the Atlantic Forest, the Gran
Chaco and the Chiquitano.
We are committed to using responsibly and sustainably
sourced soy products from South America,
which is considered the highest risk area for soy
products. We will procure soy products that are
responsibly and sustainably sourced and are certiﬁed
by credible certiﬁcation schemes, including
Roundtable for Responsible Soy, Proterra or equivalent
organizations to verify that the soy Colgate
sources pose a low risk of contributing to deforestation
or conversion.
For material procured in Brazil, our primary source,
we use soy and soy oil suppliers that are in
compliance with the Brazil Forest Code, including
registration in the Rural Environmental Registry.
In 2020, we launched a commodity speciﬁc Soy Policy,
completed an initial mapping of our indirect
volume for soy and conducted initial traceability
for our soy volumes originating from Latin America.
To
better understand our work on Soy and for updates
on our activities, please see our
Responsible Soy
Procurement Policy
.
Pulp and P aper
Pulp and Paper Approach
Colgate is committed to sourcing paper and packaging
from recycled sources and responsibly managed
forests that do not contribute to deforestation. Much
of Colgate’s packaging materials utilize
wood-derived or paper-based products. Approximately
92 percent of our pulp and paper is recycled
and/or certiﬁed as sourced from responsibly managed
forests.
As part of our responsible sourcing strategy, we continue
working with our partner, Rainforest Alliance,
an international non-proﬁt organization, to assess
our supply network for paper-based materials. We
are
also actively working with our suppliers to implement
our longstanding strategy to increase the volume
of certiﬁed or recycled pulp and paper-based materials
each year. Our partnership with Rainforest
Alliance helps us engage with our suppliers to increase
the use of certiﬁed materials, giving preference
to suppliers that use pulp and paper compliant with
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certiﬁcation
standards. Rainforest Alliance also supports mapping
our supply chain to identify hot spot areas, which
present the highest risk to our business, the environment
or the local community.
69We will continue partnering with our suppliers to build a low-risk global supply chain that meets the
following criteria for pulp and paper:
●
No illegally harvested wood
●
No exploitation of people or local communities
●
No deforestation of High Conservation Value (HCV)
areas
●
No sourcing wood from forests that were converted
to plantations or non-forest use after
December 31, 2010
In addition, we have taken additional steps to ensure
compliance with the U.S. Lacey Act, which requires
all product and disposable packaging to be composed
of legally sourced wood or other plant-based
material.
Pulp and Paper Progress
Our partnership with Rainforest Alliance supports
the execution of our responsible sourcing strategy
for
pulp and paper and drives transformation in our supply
chain.
We are focusing ﬁrst on the following pulp and paper
based materials:
●
Paper-based cartons
●
Corrugated materials for shipping
●
Paper-based labels
●
Corrugated materials for displays
●
Dryer sheet products and cleaning wipes
Our approach to mitigating risk is to give preference
to recycled or certiﬁed pulp and paper based
packaging materials including Forest Stewardship Council
(FSC) certiﬁed materials.
In 2020, we, with support from Rainforest Alliance,
completed a risk assessment of 100 percent of our
pulp and paper packaging spend. The assessment process
surveyed our suppliers on the recycled
content, certiﬁcation status and country of origin
for pulp and paper based packaging sourced to
Colgate. Based on the risk assessment we have identiﬁed
potential high risk materials and are working
with our suppliers to develop action plans to mitigate
those potential sourcing risks which may include
converting to recycled content, sourcing certiﬁed
materials or sourcing from lower risk geographies.
Currently, approximately 84 percent of Colgate’s paper
and board packaging materials by weight globally
come from recycled sources. Colgate will continue
our long-standing strategy to increase the use of
recycled materials as well as our efforts to optimize
the use of other packaging materials.
70To learn more about our work on pulp and paper and for updates on our activities, please see the Pulp
and Paper Responsible Sourcing section in our
No Deforestation
Policy
.
Tallow
Tallow, a cattle byproduct, is a key ingredient in
bar soap production. Colgate sources tallow from
suppliers in North America, Latin America and Europe.
In Brazil, there are concerns that rising demand
for
beef as a food source is prompting farmers to clear
parts of the Amazon rainforest for cattle ranching.
As a result, we mainly focus on the tallow sourced
from Brazil, and work with our Brazilian suppliers
to
transform practices in our tallow supply chain. We
require our suppliers in Brazil to:
●
certify that they follow environmental and social
requirements set forth by the Brazilian
Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources;
and
●
conﬁrm that their operations are conducted in conformance
with the Minimum Criteria for
Industrial Scale Cattle Operations in the Brazilian
Amazon Biome, which aims to stop
deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon.
To learn more about our work on Tallow and for updates
on our progress, please see the Tallow section
in our
No Deforestation Policy.
Partnerships
An important element of our sustainability strategy
is our engagement and collaboration with external
partners, which complement our strong internal capabilities.
These partnerships are important to us to
help us achieve our ambitions to source sustainability
and strive for net zero deforestation, prioritizing
palm and soy.
71
Envir onmental Management
It is Colgate’s worldwide policy to manufacture and
market our products and operate our facilities so
that we conform to, and often exceed, applicable environmental
rules and regulations. We strive to
minimize our impact on the environment and the communities
in which we operate. Our environmental
standards, including the management systems standard,
deﬁne environmental performance
expectations for Colgate facilities. All Colgate facilities
have a fully implemented Environment Health
and Safety (EHS) Management System covering a wide
range of categories, including energy, water and
waste management. Colgate’s manufacturing environmental
performance goals are included in our
Global Supply Chain annual objectives, which are cascaded
to site-level facility managers, energy
managers and EHS managers. Colgate facilities are
expected to self-assess compliance with our
standards and local regulations every 18 months. Corporate
audits are conducted every three to ﬁve
years, in partnership with a respected, third party
EHS consultant. Closure progress is reported quarterly
and veriﬁcation audits are conducted to provide closure
assurance.
Our Climate Commitment
At Colgate, we’re on a mission to create a healthy
and sustainable future. Achieving that future means
overcoming the challenge of climate change and its
threat to disrupt every aspect of our lives -- from
food
supply to socioeconomic stability. We’ve made concerted
efforts and
considerable progress
to reduce our
carbon footprint since we began in 2002.
Accelerating Action on Climate Change is a core action
of Colgate’s recently announced 2025
Sustainability Strategy.  We aim to reach net zero
carbon emissions across our growing business. Our
goals align with the
Science-Based Targets
initiative,
our signing of the
Business Ambition for 1.5
℃
and
our commitment to
Recover Better
, working in concert
with the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and others.
We will get there by reducing CO
2,
, or carbon dioxide,
emissions and addressing Climate Change across
every aspect of our value chain.
722020 Pr ogress
Colgate has made great progress with its climate-related
goals. Colgate has:
●
Reduced absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from
manufacturing (scope 1&2)  by
approximately
38%
vs. 2002
(1)
●
Total percentage of electricity obtained from renewable
sources,
36%
●
Reduced energy intensity in manufacturing by
37%
vs.
2002
●
Achieved
86
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge site recognitions
since 2001
●
Completed
27
U.S.Green Building Council (
USGBC) LEED
certiﬁed projects
●
Reduced GHG intensity of outbound logistics (scope
3) by
3%
vs. 2019
●
Reduced absolute GHG avoided from consumers saving
water to be estimated (scope 3) by
more than
17%
from 2016-2022
(2)
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(1)
Included in our Science-Based Climate Goal, approved
in 2017 by the Science-Based Targets Initiative.
(2)
Based on an estimated median value in emissions
associated with consumer behaviour, relative to 2016
baseline 
and based on results of Save Water Campaign’s consumer
survey conducted in 2020.
Science-Based Targets
Underlying Colgate’s Climate Strategy is our commitment
to the Science-Based Targets. Colgate’s next
generation science-based climate target for scopes
1, 2 and 3 was approved by the Science-Based
Target Initiative in 2020.
Colgate has the goal to:
●
reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions in global
operations 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2030 from a 2018
base
year;
●
source 100% renewable electricity for its global operations
by 2030;
●
reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased
goods and services 30% by 2025
from a 2018 base year; and
●
reduce indirect use phase emissions associated with
the consumer use of our products
20% by 2025 from 2016 base year
73
Joining 155 other companies, Colgate signed the
“Recover Better
” statement from the UNGC and other
NGOs, urging governments to align their COVID-19 economic
aid and recovery efforts with ambitious
action to ﬁght climate change.
As part of our strategy to track and reduce GHG emissions,
Colgate also tracks direct and indirect CO
2
emissions as well as direct nitrous oxide, sulfur
hexaﬂuoride, HFC and PFC emissions. We additionally
estimate NO, or nitric oxide, emissions from Colgate’s
North American and European car ﬂeets and from
the trucks that deliver Hill’s Pet Nutrition products
to retail customers in vehicles that are controlled
by
Colgate. We track VOC data as needed to comply with
local regulations.
74
Acceler ating Action on Climate Change
To reﬂect our ambitious 2025 climate actions and
targets, we have updated our long standing Climate
Strategy.
Supply Chain Engagement
The sourcing and transportation of our ingredients
and packaging account for about 9% of Colgate’s total
carbon footprint. So we’re working directly with our
suppliers to encourage them to assess their climate
and water risks, improve energy eﬃciency and increase
their use of renewable energy.
Our science-based target to reduce GHG emissions from
purchased goods and services by 30% by 2025
versus 2018 levels reﬂects this commitment. Speciﬁcally,
we are focused on:
●
Supplier engagement
●
Carbon-intensive materials
●
No deforestation
Supplier Engagement
We request that our key Tier I suppliers and suppliers
of carbon-intensive materials participate in the
CDP Supply Chain Program Climate Disclosure to help
us understand and address climate effects and
associated risks and opportunities in our upstream
supply chain. We have participated in CDP’s Supply
Chain Leadership Collaboration Project since 2008.
In 2020, a total of 94 percent of invited suppliers
responded to the survey. More speciﬁcally, 51 percent
of our Tier I direct material suppliers, by spend,
responded to the survey, including our largest raw
material suppliers and contract manufacturers.
Carbon-Intensive Materials
We have identiﬁed the oral care, personal care and
home care raw and packaging materials that have the
highest carbon footprint. This information has been
shared with our Research and Development,
Procurement and Commercial teams to help them identify
and prioritize opportunities through material
and supplier choices without negatively affecting
consumer experience, quality or cost.
No Deforestation
We also recognize that deforestation and forest degradation
contribute signiﬁcantly to the release of
GHG. Our No Deforestation policy commits to sourcing
forest commodity materials responsibly and
75sustainably. See “
Our Commitment to No Deforestation
” for more details on Colgate’s progress on policy
implementation.
Net Z ero Carbon Oper ations
We have the most control over our own global operations.
Though they contribute a relatively small
percentage of our total carbon footprint, we’re continuing
to encourage every Colgate factory, warehouse
and oﬃce to do their share. Our core targets are
as follows:
●
reduce manufacturing energy intensity by 25% [the
amount of energy needed to manufacture
each metric ton of product] by 2025 versus 2010;
●
source 100% renewable electricity for our global operations
by 2030; and
●
become Net Zero Carbon in our global operations by
2040
Colgate has a longstanding energy and carbon reduction
program that has helped us lower GHG
emissions and energy use intensity as well as increase
ﬁnancial savings. We are committed to
decarbonizing our operations in alignment with limiting
global temperature rise to align with limiting global
temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.
To achieve these goals we will continue to focus on
improving energy eﬃciency with our
best-in-class
energy reduction programs and innovations. We are
also transitioning to renewable electricity via on-site
generation as well as renewable electricity procurement
in line with leading external standards. We will
also endeavor to replace non-electric energy with
lower carbon alternatives where possible, and any
remaining carbon emissions in our operations will
be neutralized with high quality and veriﬁed carbon
removals.
Energy Eﬃciency
Colgate’s 2020 goal was to reduce the energy intensity
to manufacture our products by one-third
compared to 2002.
As of 2020
, we exceeded this target
and our global energy programs have already
resulted in the reduction of energy per ton of products
by
37 percent.
76Global Energy Management Programs:
Our energy management system is modeled after the
U.S. EPA’s ENERGY
STAR program and is implemented globally. In 2021,
Colgate was named a
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the eleventh
year in a row,
recognized speciﬁcally for Sustained Excellence.
The following programs
have contributed to the achievement of Colgate’s energy
intensity reduction
goal:
●
“Top 10” Energy Actions
For the past several years, as a way to help our global
sites prioritize the most effective energy reduction
activities, we have used our Top 10 Energy Actions
program. Implemented over two-year periods, this
program tracks progress against our ten best global
energy reduction opportunities.
●
5%  for the Planet
In 2011, Colgate initiated a program to set an annual
capital expenditure budget as a way to drive
investment in environmental sustainability projects
across our global manufacturing sites. Our “5% for
the
Planet” program helps ensure that sites identify,
fund and implement climate, energy, water and waste
projects that drive both environmental improvement
and cost savings. The program sets an annual goal
to
invest a minimum of ﬁve percent of our manufacturing
capital expenditure budget on energy reduction,
water conservation and reduction of waste to landﬁll.
Upgrades for environmental compliance and product
design are funded separately. A minimum of two percent
of the manufacturing capital budget is targeted
77
speciﬁcally toward energy reduction projects. Since inception, Colgate has invested more than $270
million in over 1,400 planet projects, delivering
an estimated savings of more than $69 million.
●
Energy Treasure Hunt Program
We engage people across Colgate’s operations to participate
in the Energy Treasure Hunt program. Over a
three-day period, 30 to 50 participants visit all
areas of a facility, searching for energy waste and
brainstorming opportunities to drive continuous improvement.
●
In 2020, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, our Mission Hills
facility in Mexico successfully
completed an Energy Treasure Hunt. There was participation
from both staff that was “on the
ground” (while following COVID-19 safety protocols)
and staff working virtually. The team
was able to identify 69 energy improvement ideas with
the potential to reduce the site’s
energy consumption by over 7,916 MWh and CO
2
emissions
by more than 3,825 metric
tonnes.
●
Energy Reduction Teams
Colgate’s Global Energy Reduction Team leads the technical
implementation of Colgate’s energy strategy
in our manufacturing sites by setting annual objectives
and developing tools and programs to help our
sites reach their energy reduction targets. This cross-functional
global team is composed of individuals
with expertise and passion for reducing Colgate’s
energy use and GHG emissions. For 17 years, the Global
Energy Reduction Team has continued to focus on supporting
our plants with many tools, activities, and
initiatives. In 2019, the team supported our global
Energy Treasure Hunt program and “Top 10” Energy
&
Water Actions program.
In 2020, Colgate launched its ﬁrst Divisional Energy
Team in our Latin America Division. This team's
development was spurred by rising energy costs in
the region. The team identiﬁed four main work
streams: energy eﬃciency, renewable energy, technology
solutions and existing projects. The team meets
bi-weekly to review the implementation of new technologies,
discuss partnerships with third parties and
78
review trends in energy reduction. Due to Latin America’s success, energy teams are now being launched
in all our divisions.
Sustainable and Eﬃcient Logistics
Customer Service and Logistics teams at Colgate continue
to focus on sustainable and eﬃcient logistics
initiatives around the world. Through these efforts,
we are reducing costs as well as our carbon footprint,
all while improving customer service.
Our sustainable and eﬃcient logistics efforts in
2020
included initiatives such as:
●
Load Optimization
: Through the use of SAP Transportation
Management—a tool currently in
place in Canada, the United States, Mexico, Brazil
and Vietnam—we are automatically
planning shipments to their optimal capacity. This
has led to more eﬃcient load planning
and minimization in the number of shipments to deliver
our products in a timely fashion.
In
2021, we will be rolling out this technology for additional
locations in Latin America (Andina
and Central America), which will continue to drive
freight planning eﬃciencies.
●
Zero empty miles
: Colgate has recognized the continual
need to optimize our supply chain
logistics in response to a more sustainable and environmentally
friendly way to distribute
our products. We have partnered with other consumer
goods companies to manage
roundtrips in a more eﬃcient way, which has increased
productivity and reduced costs and
CO
2
emissions.
●
Container Utilization
: Hill’s Europe adjusted the
stackability factor based on the product
speciﬁcations and was able to implement double stacking
in their ocean freight shipments,
driving a decrease in the number of shipped containers.
●
Paperwork reduction
: During the COVID-19 pandemic,
Colgate expanded e-invoicing to more
subsidiaries which helped reduce the need for customers
to print invoices and streamlined
the delivery of shipments.
●
Energy Eﬃciency
: Colgate is working to start tracking
the energy consumption for our
owned warehouses. As part of this initiative, for
example, we started increasing
temperature control of our warehouses from 24°C to
28°C (75.2°F to 82.4°F) in our
Africa-Eurasia division.
●
Improving Fuel Eﬃciency
: Colgate globally has implemented
the IMO2020 new regulations
for Ocean Shipping in January 2020,  which reduced
our sulfur oxide emission from 3.5%
79m/m to 0.5% m/m. Airborne sulfur oxide is a dangerous pollutant, especially near population
centers, and is a leading cause for acid rain. These
new emission standards lead to
signiﬁcant improvements in pollution derived from
ships. In addition to the above, some
divisions, such as Europe, have started using trucks
with a mixture of diesel and biodiesel to
help reduce GHGs.
●
Distribution Network Optimization
: By using a customer
location study, which reorganizes the
freight to customers through a buffer warehouse and/or
new warehouse location, we reduce
costs, better serve our customers and reduce our carbon
footprint.
Renewable Electricity
To achieve 100% renewable electricity across our operations,
we have developed a Renewable Electricity
Master Plan. This plan has been informed by third
party energy experts providing intelligence on the
available tactics to obtain renewable electricity
in each of our locations. The four tactics we are
focusing
on are:
●
On-Site Solar Generation
●
Utility Green Power
●
Renewable Energy Certiﬁcates
●
Virtual Power Purchase Agreements
Our Renewable Electricity Master Plan includes detailed
timelines and milestones for each
manufacturing site and Colgate-owned warehouse and
oﬃce, across the four tactics.
80
In 2020, four new solar installations were completed in Vietnam, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador and
Guatemala. Two additional projects began in Greece
and India and the expansion of existing solar
projects in Piscataway, New Jersey and Cali, Colombia
also took place.
My Phuoc, Vietnam
Guayaquil, Ecuador
Piscataway, New Jersey
Colgate has been a U.S. EPA Green Power Partner since
2014, supporting the voluntary use of green
power to reduce the environmental effects associated
with conventional electricity use. In 2019, Colgate
purchased 230,000 MWh of Green-e certiﬁed wind power
renewable energy certiﬁcates generated from
wind power farms located in Kansas. This green power
purchase was recognized by the U.S. EPA Green
Power Partnership Leadership Club, achieving the rank
of No.
59
in the United States. The purchase cost
of green power is allocated back to our facilities
in proportion to their carbon emissions as a way
to help
assign an internal cost-of-carbon to its source.
Spotlight:
We
are
working
hard
to
reduce
our
CO
2
emissions
across
our
global
operations.
Our
Mission
Hills,
Mexico
team
took
a
big
step
toward
our
renewable
energy
goals,
signing
a
contract
with CEMEX Energy to supply green power via a Power
Purchase Agreement (PPA).
We
chose
to
work
with
Eurus
Wind
Farm
located
in
the
state
of
Oaxaca,
Mexico.
Its
wind
power
feeds
renewable
energy
to
the
national
electric
grid.
Mission
Hills
will
use
energy
from the same grid.
Now,
40%
of
Mission
Hills’
current
electricity
needs
are
met
by
wind
power,
reducing
the
facility’s
CO
2
emissions
by
30%.
That’s
equivalent
to
22
thousand
tons
of
CO
2
annually.
We
will continue to innovate toward our goal of sourcing
100% renewable energy.
81
Improving Refrigerants
Although Colgate uses only a small quantity of refrigerants
in our air conditioning and chilled water
systems, we continue to take steps to minimize refrigerant
losses and transition to lower global warming
potential refrigerants over time. Colgate has aligned
with the Consumer Goods Forum’s resolution on
refrigerants, which calls on Food and Beverage supply
chains to phase out hydroﬂuorocarbons. Although
Colgate is not in the Food and Beverage sector, we
have proactively aligned our global refrigerant
standard to meet the intent of the CGF’s resolution
as a way to support these efforts. In addition, we
developed an associated e-learning training tool to
assist our global facilities in transitioning toward
less
carbon-intensive refrigerants.
Sustainable Pr oducts & Consumers
The predominance of our GHG emissions is associated
with the consumer use of our products  --
accounting for about 90% of our total carbon footprint.
Therefore, our most dramatic opportunity to
impact climate is in how we design our products and
how consumers act when using them.
Our target is to avoid 10 million metric tons of carbon
emissions associated with consumer use of our
products by 2025 versus 2016.
To achieve this goal, we are focusing on the following:
●
Raising consumer awareness of water conservation
●
Designing packaging that either uses less plastic,
is made with recycled content, or is
recyclable, reusable or compostable
●
Designing products that allow consumers to use less
water or temperate water
82
Save Water Campaign
One major initiative is Colgate’s
“Save Water” consumer
awareness
campaign
. Many people don’t make the connection between
water use
and carbon emissions. However, water and wastewater
treatment
systems are energy-intensive, so every drop of water
saved means less
energy used. Since launching in 2016, “Save Water”
has helped
consumers avoid an estimated 155 billion gallons of
water and 8.3
million metric tons of GHG emissions, proving that
individual actions
can lead to massive impacts.
Spotlight on sustainable products
By 2025, we are aiming to eliminate one-third of new
(virgin) plastic in packaging and will make all
packaging recyclable, reusable or compostable. For
example, in Europe, we
replaced the virgin resin in our 250ml and 500ml Palmolive
bodywash bottles with
post-consumer recycled PET. Based on an internal life
cycle analysis conducted,
this helped us to reduce by 31 percent the CO
2
emissions
involved in the
manufacturing of these bottles based on the 2020 volume.
Climate Resilience
As we accelerate our actions to reduce CO
2
emissions
across our value chain, Colgate teams are building
climate resilience into how we do business across
the globe. With an eye on both mitigation and
adaptation, we seek to understand and address the
risks and impacts of climate change.
Colgate has a long-standing operations risk management
process that includes managing the effects of
episodic climatic events, such as storms, ﬂoods,
droughts and temperature extremes, to our facilities
and supply chain. Climate risk is deﬁned as part
of the operational, regulatory and reputational and
market risks; therefore, Colgate is committed to developing
a long-term strategy to mitigate risks from
climatic events. As part of this process, we assess
potential climate vulnerabilities and risks to ensure
our business is able to respond to and recover from
climatic events. As part of our loss-prevention
program, our strategic manufacturing sites are mandated
to be highly protected against risks.
Third-party assessments on property loss control are
conducted annually for all strategic sites.
Additionally, we develop and routinely update category
contingency product sourcing plans.
83
We’re mitigating risk by reducing CO
2
emissions, using more renewable energy and engaging our
suppliers. Through these actions, we’re also mitigating reputational risks associated with investor, NGO
and consumer expectations. Additionally, we see signiﬁcant
opportunity with a sharpening focus on
building adaptation to protect against climate change
impacts, and there is much more work to be done.
Reducing our energy use and GHG emissions also enables
Colgate to mitigate costs. Since 2002, our
energy reduction program has helped us avoid more
than
$672
million in energy costs. Managing the
risks associated with climatic events, such as storms
and droughts, is also important to ensure the
continuity of our own operations and that of our supply
chain.
Climate Scenario Analysis
In 2020, Colgate engaged with TruCost to conduct a
climate-related scenario analysis to understand how
climate change can impact our business and what type
of actions can be taken to avoid climate risks or
capture opportunities. The project covers the potential
impacts of both physical risks, such as hurricanes
or droughts, and the transitional risks, such as carbon
pricing, regulatory requirements and impacts on
Colgate’s reputation. The information collected through
this research will help us prioritize our risk
management activities, inform our strategy, create
capacity to set an internal carbon price, better
assess
the return on investment for sustainability-related
capital investments, align with new public reporting
and
disclosure frameworks, and respond in a more complete
way to investor requests about the potential
climate risks to our business model.
Stak eholder Collabor ation
What’s it going to take to speed progress and win
the race against climate change? Collaborative action
across the board. No one company can or should do
it alone.
This is why an important element of our
sustainability strategy is our engagement and collaboration
with external partners, which complement our
strong internal capabilities.
Working together, we
can and must turn the tide on climate change, ensuring
that our kids will enjoy a healthy future. One worth
smiling about.
We are also working with partners to accelerate action
on climate change, eliminate waste,  lead with zero
waste facilities and drive sustainable sourcing.
Colgate
is proud to be contributing to and learning from
the collective intelligence of our partners in sustainability,
such as our retail customers with initiatives like
Walmart’s
Project Gigaton
, NGOs like the
World Resources
Institute
,
World Business Council for
Sustainable Development
(WBCSD) and
CDP
, coalitions
like the
U.S. Green Building Council
, governmental
programs like the U.S. EPA’s
ENERGY STAR
and CPG-industry
groups like
The Consumer Goods Forum,
which
are all accelerating progress on a global scale.
84In 2020,
Colgate continued to work with Walmart’s Project Gigaton to support their goal to work with
their suppliers to reduce 1 billion metric tons of
GHG emissions from the global value chain by 2030.
Through Project Gigaton, Colgate has committed to
GHG goals in six areas: emissions, energy, waste,
deforestation, packaging and product use. Colgate
reports against these goals annually.
We also continued to collaborate with a variety of
stakeholders and engaged with leading organizations
to
inform our climate strategy and drive continuous improvement
on a broader basis through 2020
. Here are
just some of Colgate’s sustainability partners:
85
Making E very Drop of W ater Count
Saving water is a cornerstone of Colgate's 2025 Sustainability
& Social Impact Strategy, crucial to our
overall mission to create a healthy and sustainable
future. Water is an ingredient in many Colgate
products and required in almost every phase of products'
life cycles. Clean water is also vital to the
communities we serve, yet in many regions of the world,
it is becoming an increasingly scarce resource.
Additionally, other related issues, such as ﬂooding,
threaten to have negative consequences on our
supply chains and the delivery of raw materials, as
well as the ﬁnished goods to the customer.
We’re taking action to ensure water stewardship, security
and resilience across our value chain, protecting
ecosystems and supporting water access in our communities.
That means we take care of water and
conserve its use, help people gain access to safe
water and mitigate risks associated with water scarcity.
Between 2002 and 2020, we’ve
cut in half
the amount
of water we use to make our products. We’ve also
enlisted our suppliers, NGO partners, customers and
consumers in myriad “Save Water” initiatives.
Now we’re expanding on that foundation and setting
even more aggressive targets.
By 2025, our goals are to:
●
Engage 100% of our priority material suppliers with
operations in water-stressed regions to
take action on water security
●
Achieve Net Zero Water (as defined by
USGBC LEED Zero
Water
) at our manufacturing sites
in water-stressed areas (and at 100% of our manufacturing
sites by 2030)
●
Reduce our manufacturing water intensity by 25% versus
2010
●
Design more products with less water
●
Promote water conservation awareness with our “Save
Water” messaging to 100% of our
global consumers, with a strong focus on water-stressed
areas
●
Provide 1 million people with access to clean, safe
water and sanitation systems
To achieve these goals, we’re taking a holistic approach,
collaborating with everyone who touches our
business.
2020 Pr ogress:
Colgate has made great progress on its water-related
goals.  Colgate has:
●
Reduced our manufacturing water intensity by
52% compared
to 2002
●
Reached over 500,000 people since 2013 through Water
For People Forever Program
TM
86●
For the past two years, Colgate has supported 60 water wells at schools in ﬁve counties in
Kenya. Our goal is to donate another 30 water wells
in 2021
Our W ater Stewar dship Str ategy
Our Water Footprint
Colgate’s water use footprint consists of the water
used by our suppliers to produce the raw and
packaging materials we purchase, the water used by
our facilities to manufacture our products, and the
water associated with consumer use of our products.
Although we continue to focus on reducing the water
used in our own operations, increasingly we are
making efforts to help manage water use along each
step of our value chain. The results of our ongoing
water footprint exercises have helped quantify the
opportunity to have a positive water impact beyond
our own operations.
87
Supply Chain
We continue to address supply chain water risks in
several ways. We are increasing supplier engagement
in our Water Stewardship Strategy by participating
in programs, such as the CDP Supply Chain Program.
Additionally, we are helping our product developers
and procurement teams understand and identify our
most water-intensive raw and packaging materials.
We invited several of our Tier I suppliers and suppliers
of water-intensive materials to participate in the
CDP Supply Chain Program Water Disclosure to help
us understand and address water consequences
and associated risks and opportunities in our upstream
supply chain. In 2020, 83 percent of invited
suppliers responded to the survey. More speciﬁcally,
47 percent of our Tier 1 direct material suppliers,
by
spend, responded to the survey, including our largest
raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers.
To help reduce the water associated with the production
of raw materials, we are working to identify the
most water-intensive materials in each of our product
categories. With this information, we are able to
engage our suppliers to better assess where there
are opportunities to reduce the water footprint of
our
products through feedstock choices and conversion
eﬃciency, particularly in markets under high water
stress.
Our 2025 ambition increases our engagement with suppliers.
Our goal is to engage 100% of our material
suppliers with operations in water-stressed regions
to take action on water security.
We continue to collaborate with the Mint Industry
Research Council (MIRC)
to gather and analyze data from mint suppliers to
better understand the
climate and water challenges across North America
and share the insights
with the industry.  We are engaging with
MIRC
to explore
and adopt smart
irrigation and other techniques to help ensure farmers
can take good care of
water resources while producing their crops.
Direct Oper ations
We continue to invest in water conservation and assess
water risks associated with our global
operations. We recycle/return water in highly stressed
regions and manage our wastewater
appropriately.
Colgate has had manufacturing water conservation goals
since 2002, and since then we have reduced
the water consumed per unit of production in the manufacture
of our products by
52
percent, exceeding
88
our target. Our 2025 goal is to reduce our manufacturing water intensity by 25 percent compared to
2010.
Key elements of our Oper ations pr ogram include:
•
5% for the Planet
Colgate invests in water conservation strategies at
our global facilities through our manufacturing
capital expenditure program, 5% for the Planet, and
by implementing our Water Stewardship Strategy.
A minimum of one percent of the manufacturing capital
expenditure budget is targeted speciﬁcally
toward water conservation projects.
•
True Cost of Water
Colgate’s True Cost of Water Toolkit, developed with
Rutgers University Business School’s Supply
Chain Management Program, is a manufacturing-based
tool designed to help sites quantify some of
the hidden costs of water, such as pretreatment, pumping,
thereby increasing both economic and
environmental opportunities for reduction.
•
Water Stewardship Standard
Colgate’s global Water Stewardship Standard is intended
to help ensure that all of our manufacturing
facilities and technology centers develop responsible
and appropriate programs to ensure that
water-related risks are understood and managed, and
that water conservation opportunities are
continuously evaluated and implemented in support
of Colgate’s environmental and sustainability
goals. Water Stewardship Strategy expectations vary
by the level of geographic water stress.
89
Conserving Water at Colgate
●
At Colgate’s manufacturing sites, we remain laser-focused
on withdrawing the least amount
of water from the environment. Water analytics will
inﬂuence which new machinery and
processes we use as well as inform our future
product portfolio. Our plants deploy
ever-more-eﬃcient practices as we keep driving
down our water manufacturing intensity (amount of
water used per ton of product produced). Cleaning
p
rocesses, for example, now require far less water
and energy thanks to
single-step sanitization
, an
innovation we developed with our partners at
Ecolab.
●
Our Huangpu, China plant is now using a small Clean-in-place
(CIP) system to apply
water-eﬃcient cleaning & sanitization. The plant
has also implemented other water saving
technologies that allow it to reuse
condensate water
in the cooling towers, ultrasonic
cleaning in the canteen, and reusing wastewater instead
of withdrawing more city water.
Net Zero Water
In regions with high water stress, we continue to
assess water risks and implement appropriate
resilience measures as a way to anticipate and mitigate
the effects. In 2015, Colgate developed a
framework project to create replenishment criteria,
deﬁne geographical boundaries and identify both
environmental and community-related options to meet
our commitment to replenish water in highly
stressed regions.
Subsequently, we leveraged this project’s output by
piloting the overall replenishment approach for our
manufacturing sites in India. Through this work, we
identiﬁed future opportunities to maximize on-site
water reduction by increasing rainwater harvesting,
on-site water treatment and returning water to the
environment.
We have now committed to achieving Net Zero Water
at all of our manufacturing sites in water stressed
areas by 2025, and all other sites by 2030. We will
follow the USGBC deﬁnition under their
LEED Zero
program
.
90
Wastewater Management
Wastewater discharges from Colgate’s operations are
generally treated on site and/or by the local
municipality prior to discharge to a body of water.
We continue to work to reduce pollutant-loading in
our
wastewater discharges prior to treatment. In selected
locations where water stress is high, Colgate
treats wastewater to tertiary levels, allowing it
to be reused for cooling, toilet ﬂushing, gardening
and
other purposes.
Consumer Use
We strive to develop innovative products that enable
consumers to use less water while meeting or
exceeding eﬃcacy expectations. Colgate also promotes
water conservation awareness globally.
We understand that the water required to use our products
represents the largest portion of our overall
water footprint. To that end, conserving water is
an opportunity for innovation. Colgate’s portfolio
now
includes a number of products that contain less water
and/or allows consumers to use less water at
home.
As we embed sustainability into each phase of R&D,
we are innovating to develop
new products that ship without much water in the package,
such as our hello®
toothpaste tablets
, as well as products that need
less water for effective use.
Water Conservation Awareness
With the Colgate brand in more homes than any other
on the planet, we have a unique opportunity to
inspire people to conserve water. To help consumers
conserve water as they use our products, we seek
to promote water conservation awareness to all our
global consumers. Through actions, such as turning
off the faucet while brushing their teeth and washing
their hands, much water can be conserved.
Since launching in 2016, our
“Save Water” public awareness
campaign
has led
consumers to save an estimated
155
billion gallons
of water. The campaign
shows how a small change like turning off the tap
when you brush your teeth can
make a big difference. And since water and wastewater
treatment systems are
energy-intensive, every drop of water saved means
less energy used. We estimate
consumers contributed to an avoidance of
8.3 million
metric tons of CO
2
emissions thanks to those 155 billion gallons going
unused.
91
Our Save Water campaign continues to increase consumer
awareness through messaging on our packaging, online
and in
stores. The Save Water message appears on our toothpaste
and
toothbrush packaging, soaps and cleaning products.
All our divisions engage Colgate People around the
world
regardless of oﬃce size or location on World Water
Day, inviting
them to take a Save Water pledge and spread the word
about water conservation. Some locations also
hold events with guest speakers and/or employees volunteering
in the local community. Thanks to the
ongoing efforts of Colgate People around the world,
we are helping drive greater awareness of water
issues—on World Water Day and every day—among consumers,
customers and fellow Colgate People.
Celebrating Our Save Water Commitments
Colgate India won the “Sustainability Partner” award
for our efforts towards the “Save Water” Awareness
Campaign in partnership with 27 Metro Cash & Carry
stores in 17 cities across India. As part of the
campaign, proceeds from the purchase of select Colgate
toothpaste were provided to water-starved
geographies through our NGO partner Water For People
India Trust.
Colgate Team as follows is pictured with Metro Cash
& 
Carry partners: Samirum Agnihotri, Key Account Manager, 
Neeraj Mahajan, Customer Service & Direct Trade 
Manager,  Abhishek Bhandari, Customer Development 
Manager, Sarala Menon, Executive Vice President, 
Manufacturing & Product Supply Chain
For
the
past
two
years,
Colgate
has
supported
60
water
wells
at
schools
in
ﬁve
counties
in
Kenya
(Kisumu,
Siaya,
Kakamega,
Migori
and
Kwale)
working
with
WellBoring,
an
NGO
in
the
United
Kingdom.
The
partnership
has
helped
approximately
60,000
people.
Due
to
the
severity
of
the
water
challenge
across
rural
communities
in
Kenya,
in
2021,
Colgate
aims
to
donate
an
additional
30
Water
Wells
in
Kenya,
where
thousands
of
pupils,
their
teachers,
and
their
families
may
all
gain access to clean drinking water.
92
Access t o Water, Sanitation and Hy giene
We respect the human right to access water, sanitation
and hygiene. One of Colgate’s 2025 Sustainability
Strategy goals is to work with local and global organizations
to help promote access to clean water and
provide oral health and hygiene education in communities
around the world.
In that spirit, Colgate is proud to continue our commitment
to support
water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) programming through
our
partnership with
Water For People
as they pursue their
mission to
reach Everyone Forever with WASH services across Guatemala,
India
and Peru. From 2013 through
2020,
Colgate’s total
support of more
than
$2.1 million h
as helped more than
500,000
people
in
communities, schools and clinics gain access to safe
water services.
Water F or People - Guatemala
In 2020, Colgate continued our partnership with Water
For People in Guatemala and India to strengthen
and support the municipal water and sanitation oﬃces
that were established since we began our
partnership in 2013. Our partnership exists to promote
the development of high-quality drinking water
and sanitation services, accessible to all, and sustained
by strong communities, businesses and
governments.
We also recognize that communities facing inadequate
access to safe water often do not have suﬃcient
sanitation services and that handwashing is not widely
practiced. Colgate continues to work with public
health oﬃcials, academia, local schools and clinics
to educate millions of children and their families
about the health and hygiene beneﬁts of handwashing.
Further, as a matter of long-standing practice,
Colgate provides safe water, sanitation and hygiene
to all people in our workplaces.
We’re expanding WASH initiatives in key communities
where water access will be a key conduit to the
success of our oral health and handwashing education
programs through
Colgate Bright Smiles, Bright Futures.
We’re working
toward a future free
from cavities and other preventable diseases. During
the COVID-19
pandemic, we’ve
partnered with the the World Health
Organization (WHO
) to
bring more than 26 million bars of our #SafeHands
soaps to people in need.
Instructions for effective handwashing are included
with each bar, fostering
better health outcomes in vulnerable communities.
93
Collaboration and Disclosure
As a way to inform our water stewardship efforts,
Colgate engages with
leading water experts. This collaboration helps build
expertise, align
efforts and ensure that our water programs meet stakeholder
expectations. We are also committed to transparency
and reporting
publicly on our water stewardship and reduction performance.
Colgate
participates on the United Nations CEO Water Mandate
Action Platform
as part of our commitment to the United Nations Global
Compact
(UNGC). Through our participation in the UNGC’s
CEO
Water Mandate
,
we’ve recently joined forces with a number of other
companies to launch an industry-driven initiative,
the
Water Resilience Coalition
.
The Coalition aims to
preserve the world’s freshwater resources through
shared, ambitious, quantiﬁable commitments that are
meaningful and measurable, many of which mirror
Colgate’s targets.
Ecosystem Pr otection
Colgate continues to work to protect water-related
ecosystems through our commitment to No
Deforestation, water replenishment, aquifer protection,
wastewater
treatment and community partnerships.
We’re proud to be long-time partners with organizations
like
The
Nature Conservancy
(TNC), which is dedicated to conserving
the
lands and waters on which all life depends. Watershed
risk
assessments and restoration projects are accelerating
progress,
especially in areas designated as priority basins.
We’re excited to support TNC’s success in
restoring
river systems
, enhancing wildlife habitats while conserving
water and improving its quality.
We partner with stakeholders and our communities to
help drive water stewardship programs. We are
committed to transparency and publicly disclose our
water stewardship strategies and goals, and report
on our progress. As a way to inform our water stewardship
efforts, Colgate engages with leading water
experts. This collaboration helps build expertise,
align efforts and ensure our water programs meet
stakeholder expectations.
94
Collaboration, Advocacy and Disclosure
An important element of our sustainability strategy
is our engagement and collaboration with external
partners, which complement our strong internal capabilities.
Colgate has many such partnerships with a
broad array of organizations, including suppliers,
research institutions, universities, industry and
nonproﬁt
organizations. Here are just some of Colgate’s sustainability
partners:
95
Leading with Z ero Waste F acilities
Colgate sites are reducing, reusing and recycling
waste. As part of our 2020 Sustainability Strategy,
our
target was to halve our manufacturing waste sent to
the landﬁll per ton of product compared to 2010,
working toward our goal of Zero Waste. Our 2025 ambition
takes us further in the direction of reaching
100% Total Resource Use and Eﬃciency (TRUE
®
) Zero
Waste certiﬁcation for our global operations.
In 2017, Colgate initiated a new relationship with
the
Green Business Certiﬁcation Inc
. (GBCI) on its
TRUE
®
Zero Waste certiﬁcation program, adopting it
as our global platform to drive Zero Waste.
Currently, manufacturing facilities in all geographies
are using the TRUE
®
Zero Waste approach and
tools. Additionally, we are aligning our global waste
data management systems with TRUE
®
Zero Waste
to ensure uniform measurement of results.
96
The TRUE
®
Zero Waste program goes beyond
just looking at diversion rates. It
is a whole system
approach that encourages companies to ﬁnd ways to
reduce waste throughout their supply chain. For
example, it encourages facilities to work with vendors
to identify alternatives to non-recyclable
packaging and inspires facilities to implement strategies
to reduce the amount of packaging for
outbound materials.
An aspect of the TRUE
®
Zero Waste program that embeds
the concept of waste diversion at our facilities
is the high level of employee engagement. From “Green
Teams” to “Trash to Treasure Dumpster Dive”
events, our employees are engaged to achieve zero
waste every day.
Our commitments in action:
Our Canelands, South Africa plant achieved TRUE
®
Zero
Waste
certification, the first-ever site in Africa to receive
this recognition.
Samuel Binda, Anesh Naidoo, Clive Dunn
With a 99.29% diversion rate, our Cambridge, Ohio
plant became
our 19th plant to be certified. One key aspect of
their waste
program is working with suppliers. For example, by
eliminating
individual boxes for shipping shrink labels, the plant
was able to
save over 7,000 pounds of cardboard each year.
In recognition of our sustainability efforts to achieve
TRUE
®
Zero
Waste certiﬁcation across our global operations,
Gartner awarded
Colgate “Social Impact of the Year” honors, part of
their
2020
Power of the Profession Awards
.
97
Reducing Consumer W aste
We recognize the importance of reducing waste at every
stage of the product lifecycle, including at the
end-of-life of our products and packaging. We have
committed to making all of our packaging in all
categories  recyclable, reusable or compostable by
2025.
●
Our investments in innovation continue to bear fruit.
Colgate Bamboo
Toothbrushes
feature compostable handles made from
natural bamboo. All
packaging for the line is plastic free, made from
recyclable cardboard.
●
Innovative product formats that allow for plastic-free
packaging -- like these
toothpaste tablets
from our
hello
brand packaged in a refillable and recyclable tin
container.
We believe building a circular economy in which industrial
materials and packaging can be recycled and
reused is an important part of a sustainable future.
In addition to commitments for our own packaging,
Colgate has committed to work with stakeholders to
drive continuous improvement in local recycling
systems.
In 2014, we became one of the initial investors in
the Closed Loop
Infrastructure Fund to develop local recycling infrastructure
and
sustainable manufacturing technologies that advance
the circular
economy. In the United States, municipalities often
lack access to the
capital to invest in recycling programs and infrastructure.
The Closed
Loop Infrastructure Fund provides zero-interest loans
to municipalities and below-market loans to private
companies with a goal to develop infrastructure and
improve recycling rates. The fund also seeks to
co-invest with local private and public entities to
magnify its impact. The fund has invested in the
collection, sorting and processing of recyclables.
To learn more, visit Closed Loop Partners' website
here
.
98
Since its inception, the Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund has invested in
30
projects and deployed
$61.3M
to date, with an additional
$222M
contributed
by co-investors.
The Closed Loop Infrastructure
Fund’s $3 million loan to the City of Phoenix, helps
improve the capacity and material capture of its
North Gateway recycling facility, enabling a greater
diversion of plastics from landfill and improving
the
quality of baled paper produced. The city has already
seen improvements, with an 18% increase in tons
of residential recycled materials collected during
the COVID-19 pandemic.
To learn more, read Closed
Loop Partners’
2020 Impact Report
.
Commitment t o Sustainable Buildings
Colgate has committed to the U.S. Green Building Council
(USGBC) Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design (LEED) certiﬁcation for all
of our new construction
projects around the world. We have used the LEED green
building rating
system to help design and construct our manufacturing
sites, technology
centers, warehouses and oﬃces as one way to help
reduce our overall
exposure to water and climate change-related issues
and offer a healthier,
more comfortable work environment.
Currently, Colgate has 19 facilities that have achieved
27 LEED Certiﬁcations. Our LEED projects have
been conducted in the United States, Latin America,
Asia and Europe. In addition, we use several
LEED-certiﬁed third-party distribution centers. Colgate
has been a member company of the USGBC since
2007. Colgate continues to collaborate and engage
with USGBC in the advancement of LEED and green
building practices for the global manufacturing sector.
Further information about Colgate’s
LEED-certiﬁed buildings is available on the USGBC
Green Building Information Gateway
.
In 2018, Colgate achieved three new LEED certiﬁcations
at our Burlington, New Jersey Oral Care
manufacturing site (LEED Silver), our Greenwood, South
Carolina
Personal Care manufacturing site (LEED Certiﬁed),
and at our Sri
City, India Toothbrush manufacturing site (LEED Gold).
In 2019, our
Burlington, New Jersey ﬂavors facility was the ﬁrst
site in the
world to achieve LEED Zero Certiﬁcation by the USGBC
for net zero
carbon, energy, water and waste. In 2020, our expansion
project at
our Global Technology Campus in Piscataway, New Jersey
received LEED Gold certiﬁcation. This expansion features
low
99
emitting materials, indoor air quality sensors, ultra eﬃcient LED lighting, ample daylight views, and the
ability for occupants to control their own personal
thermal comfort.
Guided by our overarching sustainability goals, the
Global Energy Reduction Team leads the technical
implementation of Colgate’s energy strategy within
its manufacturing sites across the world.
More
rooftops across Colgate are sporting solar panels
as we strive to reach our goal of 100% renewable
electricity in our global operations by 2030. Our
Technology Campus in Piscataway, New Jersey, is setting
the bold ambition to become a ‘Net Zero’ campus, and
has made signiﬁcant progress thanks to a recent
installation of Phase II and III of on-site solar
which included an additional 4,000 solar panels, equivalent
to reducing over 1,600MT of CO
2
annually. Additionally,
the site now features over 30 different electric
vehicle charging stations to enable our employees
to charge their electric vehicles.
______________________________________________________________________________________
“LEED” and related logos are trademarks owned by the
U.S. Green Building Council and are used with
permission.
100
