Building  
a Future
to Smile  
About
COLGATE CORPORATE 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
  Our C ompany
 3 Mes sage from Ian Cook
 4 201 5 to 2020 Strategy
  5 201 7 At A Glance
 6 2020 Sus tainability Commitments Progress
 7 A wards and Recognition
 8 UN Global C ompact and Sustainable 
  De velopment Goals
 9 C ompany Profile
 11 Sus tainability Management
 14 Governance
  People  
 18 Suppor ting Colgate People
 19 Our Appr oach
 20 Build ing a Future to Smile About
 21 Build ing a Coaching Culture
 21 Cr eating a Continuous Learning Environment
 22 Emplo yee Health and Wellness
 26 Our C ommitment to Universal Human Rights
 26 Div ersity & Inclusion
 28 E qual Pay
 28 Supplier Div ersity
 30 Oc cupational Health and Safety
 32 201 7 Safety Highlights
 34 R esponsible Sourcing
 36 Or al Health Education
 39 Handw ashing Education
 41 Helping Pets F ind a Home
 42 C ommunity Giving   Contents
  Performance
 45 C olgate’s Global Brands
 46 C onsumer-Driven Innovation
 48 Pr oduct Sustainability at Colgate
 48 Driving Sus tainability Through Our Categories
 49 Impr oving the Product Sustainability Profile 
  of Our Pr oducts 
 50 Deliv ering Safe and Sustainable Ingredients
 5 1  Deliv ering More Sustainable Packaging
 55 Pr oviding Access to Affordable Products
 55 P artnering with Customers
  Planet
 57 Suppor ting Our Planet
 58 Our C ommitment to No Deforestation   
 65 En vironmental Management
 65 Our Climat e Commitment
 73 Mak ing Every Drop of Water Count
 81 W orking Toward Zero Landfill Waste
 82 R educing Consumer Waste
 83 C ommitment to Sustainable Buildings
  Appendix
 84 Partnerships
 86 R econciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 87 A bout This Report3
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Colgate People all around the world take pride in our 
Company and the business, social and environmental 
performance we deliver each year. They care about the 
future of our Company, the communities we serve, and the planet we share.
At the heart of our efforts are our commitments to our 
shared global values, ethical behavior, and ambitious sustainability goals that touch most everything we do. Our 
focus remains on five global sustainability commitments: 
• Helping Colgate People and Their Families Live Better
• Contributing to the Communities Where We Live and 
Work
• Delighting Consumers and Sustaining Our World With  
Our Brands
• Making Every Drop of Water Count
• Reducing Our Impact on Climate and the Environment
This report details our current progress and our 
commitments to future progress. I am especially pleased to 
highlight developments in these three critical areas:
Water Conservation Colgate is uniquely positioned to lead 
in water conservation: Water is intrinsic to our products 
and how they are used. Conserving water reflects our value of Caring for people and the planet, as our brands, 
found in more households than any other in the world, 
are trusted by billions of people. So we have both an extraordinary opportunity – and a clear duty – to help 
preserve this vital resource. Momentum is building around 
our #EveryDropCounts campaign, and this year we will reach people in 70+ countries with engaging messages to turn off 
the tap when brushing.Palm Oil We recognize our responsibility to work with 
industry groups, suppliers, governments and others to 
ensure we source palm oil and its derivatives in ways that do 
not damage the environment or exploit workers. Our goal is to reach 100 percent sustainable palm oil which we expect 
to achieve in 2018. This year we also expect to disclose 100 
percent of the mills that supply us directly from our four largest palm oil suppliers, which together account for more 
than 80 percent of our purchases. Looking ahead, we will 
extend this program to additional suppliers as we work toward our goal of full disclosure and traceability.
Plastic Packaging Plastics can contribute to environmental 
concerns, including pollution of the world’s oceans. We are committed to reducing our use of plastic in our packaging, 
using more recycled plastic, and increasing the recyclability 
of our plastic packaging. We have made significant progress, including reducing our use of PVC plastics – 98 
percent of our packaging is free of this hard-to-recycle 
plastic. Now we have raised the bar with a new commitment: 100 percent recyclability of the plastic we use in our 
packaging across all categories by 2025. 
I am grateful to all the Colgate People who contribute 
to our sustainability success year after year, as well as to 
the suppliers and other partners we work with to achieve 
our goals. Our progress is being recognized; including placement on the CDP Water A List and CDP Climate A List, 
making Colgate-Palmolive the highest ranked U.S. based 
company in our industry. 
Together, we are Building a Future to Smile About.
 
Ian Cook  
Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerAs we head into 2018, Colgate will 
continue to care for the well-being 
of people and their families, be a steward for the planet and its resources and do business with the 
highest level of integrity.Message from Ian Cook
4
1. 15% risk reduction will be measured considering a 2013 baseline, using the Global Health Risk Assessment tool, available to countries with 100 or more 
employees.
2. The performance results will be based on representative new products and product updates evaluated against comparable Colgate products, considering a 2015 baseline, across seven impact areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative 
data.
3. Packages meeting all three criteria are considered recyclable: 1) the package is made of a material that is widely accepted for recycling, 2) the package can 
be separated into material(s) that can be recycled, and 3) the package material can be reprocessed into a preferred valuable feedstock.Colgate’s 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy maintains our emphasis on People, Performance and 
Planet with focused, measurable goals that align with the Company’s business objectives.2015 to 2020 Strategy
WE WILL
• Continuously improve 
employee health and reduce health risks  by 15%
1
• Encourage healthier living for Colgate people and their families
• Ensure a safe and healthy work environment with a goal of zero lost-time incidents
• Provide education and tools to Colgate people to elevate financial awareness and planningWE WILL
• Expand Bright Smiles, Bright Futures
TM 
program to reach 1.3 billion children
• Invest in the improvement of health, education, and environment for thousands of people in communities around the globe
• Partner with animal shelters to help over  2 million dogs and  cats find homes
• Reach 60 million people annually with handwashing education
• Expand Colgate Cares Day globally to be a leader in volunteerismWE WILL
• Improve the sustainability profile in our new products and product updates
2
• Commit $250 million to drive sustainability with breakthrough product and process innovation
• Increase the recyclability of our packaging and increase recycled content to 50%
3
• Have a positive impact by expanding access to affordable health and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities
•  Use the power of our brands to build awareness and drive engagement in product sustainabilityWE WILL
• Reduce our manufacturing water intensity by half compared to 2002 
• Replenish water withdrawn in highly stressed regions
• Increase supplier participation in our water stewardship program
• Partner with local and global organizations to bring clean water to underserved areas of the world
• Promote water conservation  awareness to all our  global consumersWE WILL
• Responsibly source forest commodities to reach zero net deforestation
• Promote use of renewable energy and reduce abso- lute greenhouse gas emissions from man- ufacturing by 25% compared to 2002
•  Reduce our manufac -
turing energy intensity by one-third compared to 2002
• Halve our manufac -
turing waste sent to landfill per ton of prod-uct compared to 2010, working toward our goal of “Zero Waste”
• Partner with key sup -
pliers, customers and consumers to reduce energy, greenhouse gas emissions, and waste  REDUCING  
OUR IMPACT  
ON CLIMATE  
AND THE  
ENVIRONMENTMAKING  
EVERY DROP  
OF WATER  
COUNTDELIGHTING 
CONSUMERS AND 
SUSTAINING OUR 
WORLD WITH  
OUR BRANDSCONTRIBUTING  
TO THE  
COMMUNITIES  
WHERE WE LIVE  
AND WORKHELPING  
COLGATE PEOPLE  
AND THEIR  
FAMILIES  
LIVE BETTER5
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Colgate people around the world are coming together to align behind the commitments 
and continue to make progress. Below are some highlights and accomplishments of our 
progress over the past year.2017 At A Glance
1. Reached through earned and social media and views of the television and online video.
2. The performance results are based on representative products from the product portfolio evaluated against comparable Colgate products 
across seven impact areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative 
data.
3. Subject to final verification by third-party auditor.Reached over 
950 million  
children with oral health 
education since 1991
Colgate people achieved 
27 million 
Healthy Activity Minutes
60 million  
people reached with 
handwashing education in 2017
Supplier Responsible Sourcing 
Assessments program in 2017, 
assessed more than 
80%  
of our “at risk” spend
 9 million  
 pet adoptions 
 since 2002Save Water conservation 
campaign activated in 
70+ 
countries and reached nearly 
3 billion  
people(1)
Upcycled over 
7 million 
pieces of oral care packaging 
with Terracycle
Improved the sustainability profile in 
82% 
of new products and 
product updates(2)
Approximately 
42%  
of our packaging materials by 
weight are from recycled sources
Approximately 
80%  
of our packaging is recyclable373 thousand
 people r eached 
 with w ater and 
 sanit ation and/or 
 health and h ygiene 
 education since 201 3
 47% 
 r eduction in water use 
 per t on of product 
 manuf actured vs. 2002(3)
 44%
 r eduction in waste sent  
 t o landfill per ton of  
 pr oduct manufactured  
 v s. 2010(3)
 28%
 r eduction in greenhouse 
 gas emis sions vs. 2002
 31%
 r eduction in energy 
 int ensity vs. 2002(3)
70%
of palm oil, palm kernel oil 
and palm oil derivatives 
purchases are certified
PEOPLE PERFORMANCE PLANET
6
Highlights of the progress we made on our sustainability commitments this year are below. The Company 
was named to both the 2017 Dow Jones Sustainability World and North America Indices, was recognized as 
a U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 2017 Partner of the Year for the 7th year in a row, and was named to both the CDP 
Water A List and CDP Climate A List in 2017. To learn more about Colgate’s Sustainability Strategy progress, visit the Sustainability section of Colgate’s website at colgatepalmolive.com.2020 Sustainability Commitments Progress
People
Performance
Planet
Helping Colgate People and  
Their Families Live Better
• In 2017, the Global Health Risk Assessment (HRA) 
tool was available in 50 countries, providing access to 60% of Colgate’s workforce. The HRA tool helps Colgate employees self-evaluate health status and understand health risks, and provides confidential feedback to motivate behavioral change.
• In each of the past five years, more than 60% of Colgate employees participated in our Global Healthy Activity Challenge. In 2017, employees logged 27 million minutes of healthy activity.
• Colgate is working to support employees in their effort to be financially secure at every stage of their lives. Employees in more than 100 countries now have access to a financial wellness toolkit, available in seven languages.
Delighting Consumers and Sustaining Our World With Our Brands
• Approximately 82% of the products evaluated with Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard were determined to be “more sustainable, ” showing an improvement in at least one of the following areas: responsible sourcing and raw materials, energy and greenhouse gases, water, waste, ingredient profile, packaging and social metrics.
(1)
• Approximately 42% of our packaging materials, by weight globally, now come from recycled sources and approximately 80% of our packaging is considered recyclable.
(2)
• Colgate has made great strides in its commitment to improving the sustainability profile of our products by eliminating the use of microbeads, phthalates and parabens as ingredients.
Reducing Our Impact on Climate 
and the Environment 
• Colgate continues to reduce its absolute greenhouse 
gas emissions. So far, we have reduced our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 28% compared to 2002.
(3)
• Working toward the Company’s goal of “Zero Waste, ” Colgate has reduced the amount of waste per ton of production sent to landfills by nearly 44% since 2010.
(3)
• Colgate continues to make progress on its commitment to mobilize resources to achieve zero net deforestation by 2020 as stated in our policy on No Deforestation.
Contributing to the Communities 
Where We Live and Work
• Colgate has the unique ability to improve the oral health of 
children and their families around the world. The Colgate Bright Smiles, Bright Futures® oral health education program reached more than 50 million children in 2017, totaling more than 950 million children since its inception in 1991.
• Since 2002, Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love™ program has provided more than $290 million in pet food to more than 1,000 pet shelters and helped more than nine million pets find their forever homes across North America.
• Colgate is working with public health officials, academia and local schools and clinics to educate millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene benefits of handwashing with soap. In 2017, Colgate reached more than 60 million people through media campaigns, community events and educational programs in schools throughout various geographies.
Making Every Drop of Water Count
• In 2017, Colgate reduced water use per ton of production  by nearly 47% vs. 2002, avoiding enough water use to fill 230 billion glasses of water.
(3)
• Colgate continues to scale up our Save Water campaign globally to promote water conservation awareness with on-package messaging, in-store communications, social media and a partnership with The Nature Conservancy in the U.S.
• Colgate’s contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program helped them reach more than 373,000 people since 2013 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education in Guatemala, Peru and India.
1. The performance results are based on representative products from the product portfolio evaluated against comparable Colgate products across seven impact areas 
to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data.
2. Packages meeting all three criteria are considered recyclable: 1) the package is made of a material that is widely accepted for recycling, 2) the package can be separated into material(s) that can be recycled, and 3) the package material can be reprocessed into a preferred valuable feedstock.
3. Subject to final verification by a third-party auditor.7
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Colgate continues to be recognized for efforts in sustainability and social responsibility.Awards and Recognition
2017 Dow Jones Sustainability World 
and North America Indices
Human Rights Campaign 
2018 Corporate Equality Index 
(CEI) 
Perfect score of 100%2018 Fortune 
World’s Most 
Admired 
CompaniesNo. 96 
100 Best  
Corporate 
Citizens   
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Magazine 
2017 LGBTQ  Business Equality Excellence Award
Top Companies for  
Executive Women 2017  
National Association for  
Female ExecutivesNo. 35 Top 50  
Companies for  
Diversity 2017  
Diversity, Inc. MagazineTop 50 Employers for 
African Americans  
‘Best of the Best’
Black EOE Journal
2017 Working  
Mother 100  
Best Companies   
and Best  
Companies for 
Multicultural 
Women 2017 JUST 100 
by Forbes and 
Just Capital
Top 7 most diverse and inclusive 
companies in the U.S.  Thompson Reuters 
Diversity & Inclusion Index
In 2017 Forbes  
named Colgate one of 
the World’s Most 
Valuable Brands, 
Most Innovative 
Companies  and 25 
Most Reputable 
CompaniesNo. 10 2017  
Best Places for  
Women & Diverse 
Managers  
to Work  Diversity  
MBA Magazine 2018 World’s Most 
Ethical Companies  
Ethisphere Magazine2017 Barrons 100 Most 
Sustainable Companies
Top Diversity 
Employer  Hispanic 
Network MagazineColgate named to  
Most Trusted Brand 
in India 2017No. 17 on America’s 
Top 50 Corporations 
of Inclusion  
OMNIKAL 2017
2018 CDP 
Supplier 
A List Leader
Colgate has achieved 68 U.S. EPA ENERGY 
STAR Challenge for Industry  Awards at 
our global manufacturing sites since 2011Colgate was one of 74  
companies globally 
named to the 2017 
CDP Water A List for 
leadership in  
water stewardshipU.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Partner  
of the Year 2017  for the 7th year in a row,  
with recognition for Sustained Excellence                                                   2017 U.S.  
EPA’s Green  
Power 
Partnership 
National  
Top 100 listNo. 53 on  
Corporate Knights’  
2017 Global  
100 Most  
Sustainable 
Corporations  list
No. 40 in U.S. Newsweek Green  
Rankings 2017
Colgate was named  
to the 2017 CDP 
 Climate A List8
Colgate-Palmolive supports the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The table below 
shows how initiatives described in each section of this report addresses specific UN SDGs.
BUSINESS STRENGTH
GOVERNANCE AND 
BUSINESS INTEGRITY 
SUPPORTING 
COLGATE PEOPLE
EMPLOYEE HEALTH 
AND WELLNESS & OHS
OUR COMMITMENT 
TO UNIVERSAL HUMAN RIGHTS
ORAL AND 
HANDWASHING EDUCATION 
CONSUMER DRIVEN 
INNOVATION
PRODUCT 
SUSTAINABILITY
DELIVERING SAFE 
AND SUSTAINABLE INGREDIENTS
DELIVERING MORE 
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING
OUR COMMITMENT TO 
NO DEFORESTATION
OUR CLIMATE 
COMMITMENT
MAKING EVERY DROP 
OF WATER COUNT
WORKING TOWARDS 
ZERO LANDFILL AND REDUCING CONSUMER 
WASTE COMMITMENT
COMMITMENT TO 
SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS33 3
3PLANET 3PERFORMANCE 3PEOPLEUN Global Compact 
and Sustainable Development Goals
 3EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY3 3 3 33
3 33 3 3 33
3 3 3 3
3 3 3 3 33
33 3 3 33
3 33 3
33 3 333 3333 3
3 33 3333 3
33 3 3 3 3 3
33333 3
3 333333333 3
3 3 3 3 3 3
3 3 3 33 3
3 3 333 39
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Company ProfileOur Company
Softsoap Blue- PMS 661
Silver- Foil Stamp
®
® ®
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 9Founded in 1806, Colgate-Palmolive 
Company is a publicly traded consumer products company with $15.5 billion 
of worldwide net sales in 2017, serving 
people around the world with well-known brands that make their lives healthier and more enjoyable.
OPERATIONS
Colgate operates in more than 80 countries, and our products 
are marketed in more than 200 countries and territories. 
Approximately 35,900 Colgate employees drive our success. 
Headquartered in New York City, Colgate operates through six divisions around the world: North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa/Eurasia, and Hill’s Pet 
Nutrition.
The Company has more than 50 manufacturing and 
research facilities globally. The vast majority of Colgate products are manufactured in Colgate-owned facilities. 
Colgate also has an extensive supply chain consisting 
of thousands of suppliers of raw and packing materials, manufacturing operating supplies, capital equipment, and other goods and services.
COLGATE BRANDS
Colgate is a leading global consumer products company, focused on Oral Care, Personal Care, Home Care, and Pet 
Nutrition. Colgate manufactures and markets its products 
under trusted brands such as Colgate, Palmolive, Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sorriso, Kolynos, elmex, Tom’s of Maine, Sanex, Ajax, Axion, 
Fabuloso, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hill’s Science 
Diet, Hill’s Prescription Diet, and Hill’s Ideal Balance.10
1. 2013-2017 exclude charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. A complete reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results 
excluding these items (non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on Colgate’s website and on page 86 of this report.  
2. 2017 excludes charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and a provisional charge related to U.S. tax reform. 2016 excludes a gain from the sale of land in Mexico, charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and certain other items. 2015 excludes a gain from the sale of the 
Company’s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific, a charge related to the deconsolidation of the Company’s Venezuelan operations, charges 
related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and certain other items. 2013-2014 exclude charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency 
Program, remeasurement charges resulting from devaluations and effective devaluations in Venezuela and certain other items. A complete reconciliation 
between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on Colgate’s website.
10Our Company Business Strength
2017 Net Sales By Geographic Region 2017 Net Sales By Market Maturity
’17 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’17 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’17 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’132.81(2) 2.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2) 2.87(2)1.55
1.50
1.42
1.331.59
1.522.36 15.2 16.017.3 17.4
15.52.72
2.382.28
’15
 ’17 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’1360.3(1)
58.7(1)58.7(1) 58.8(1)60.5(1)
60.0
58.6 58.660.0
58.5 ($ billions)  (% of sales)  ($ per shar e)  ($ per shar e)Net Sales Diluted Earnings (2)Gross Profit Margin (1)Dividends PaidWhile uncertainty in global markets and category growth worldwide remain 
challenging, we are maintaining our heightened focus on brand building 
and increased productivity. We are planning for another year of increased 
advertising investment behind new products, our base businesses and longer-term consumption-building activities, and are deeply committed to acting with greater speed and agility to drive sustained profitable growth worldwide. 
20% North America
25% Latin America 16%  Europe 
18% Asia Pacific   6% Africa/Eurasia 15%  Hill’s Pet Nutrition50% Developed Markets50% Emerging Markets11
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Sustainability is integrated into Colgate’s business model and aligned with our core values: 
Caring, Global Teamwork, and Continuous Improvement. Our sustainability efforts help 
ensure our business grows consistently and responsibly, benefit those we serve, and 
promote the well-being of future generations.Sustainability ManagementSustainability  
at Colgate
Colgate Values
Caring
We care about Colgate people, 
customers, consumers, shareholders, and 
business partners. Colgate is committed 
to acting with compassion, integrity, honesty and high ethics in all situations and to listen with respect to others, and 
to valuing differences. The Company 
is also committed to protecting the global environment, to enhancing the communities where Colgate people 
live and work, and to complying with 
government laws and regulations.
Global Teamwork
All Colgate people are part of a global team, committed to working together 
across countries and throughout the 
world. Only by sharing ideas, technol-ogies, and talents can the Company achieve and sustain profitable growth. 
Continuous Improvement
Colgate is committed to improving every day. By better understanding 
consumers’ and customers’ expectations 
and continuously working to innovate and improve products, services, and processes, Colgate teams and individuals 
will become the best at what we do.Materiality 
Approach
As a publicly traded U.S. company, 
Colgate files required reports with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC). Our Annual Report on Form 
10-K highlights risks material to an 
investment in the Company, including those relating to sustainability, namely: 
volatility in commodity prices; changes 
in regulatory requirements relating to ingredients in our products; changes in policies or practices of retail trade 
partners, such as with respect to the 
environment or sustainability; damage to our reputation relating to environmental impacts or other sustainability issues; 
disruption to our global supply chain 
or key office facilities by environmental events; disruptions in logistics; damage 
from industrial accidents or other 
occupational health and safety issues; and losses caused by natural disasters, including climate events. 
Refer to Item 1A. RISK FACTORS in our 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
year ended December 31, 2017 for the material risks relating to an investment in 
our securities.
While not considered material from an 
SEC point of view, Colgate has identified a set of key sustainability issues for the Company, taking into account the issues 
of interest to our stakeholders.
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 1112
Sustainability  
at Colgate
Colgate has categorized and prioritized the issues with the most potential to affect our 
operations or supply chain, or to create regulatory or reputational risk. These issues 
are reviewed and governed by the Sustainability Steering Committee led by the Chief 
Operating Officer, North America, Europe, Africa/Eurasia and Global Sustainability. In addition to risk, we considered whether an issue has potential to create shared value for both Colgate and society. The chart below summarizes key sustainability issues: 
Based on the Risk Factors identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, 
our top sustainability risks are Product 
Stewardship, Climate Change, and Responsible Sourcing.
Colgate is managing risks and 
opportunities related to these issues 
through the implementation of our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy as well as through our Enterprise Risk 
Management process. These same 
issues also provide an opportunity to drive innovation and growth, 
strengthen brand reputation, and 
demonstrate our commitment to responsible business practices. Additional detail on each of the issues 
and our actions to address them is 
provided in the body of the report.Our key sustainability issues also intersect with the following GRI 
Standards important for our internal 
and external stakeholders: Economic Performance, Materials, Energy, Water, 
Emissions, Effluents and Waste, 
Products and Services, Compliance, Transport, Occupational Health and Safety, Training and Education, 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Local 
Communities, Public Policy, and Service Labeling.KEY SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES
ORAL  
HEALTH
(page 36) (page 26) (page 48) (page 51) (page 65) (page 58) (page 73)RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING  
AND  
HUMAN 
 RIGHTSPRODUCT 
STEWARDSHIPSUSTAINABLE 
PACKAGINGCLIMATE 
CHANGEDEFORESTATION WATER 
STEWARDSHIPKey Issues, Risks 
and Opportunities13
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Colgate strives to create and maintain transparent communication with a 
wide variety of stakeholders. Our sustainability commitments and goals 
are developed with the input from our stakeholders, and we continue to 
engage with stakeholders to inform our sustainability strategy.
Colgate’s main stakeholder groups and examples of our engagement 
approach are outlined below. See page 84 for a full list of Colgate’s partnerships and details on our engagement.Stakeholder 
Engagement
STAKEHOLDERS METHOD OF ENGAGEMENT
Our employees Frequent internal communication, employee 
engagement surveys, geographic sustainability teams, internal subject matter experts, quarterly sustainability steering team reviews
Our consumers Integrated marketing communications including those addressing “brand purpose, ” ongoing consumer dialogue, consumer surveys, social media postings
Our retail customers  and partnersOngoing sustainability network groups, sustainability surveys, trade partner supplier expectations
Our peers and 
suppliers  Peer benchmarking annually via Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) membership, supplier engagement meetings, assessments and disclosure requests
Our shareholders  and investor groupsDirect inquiries and feedback on an ongoing basis,  
face-to-face meetings, investor conferences
Government and  regulatory bodiesOngoing monitoring of regulatory activity relevant to Colgate, face-to-face meetings
Non-governmental associationsQuarterly direct inquiries and feedback, face-to-face meetings, participation in boards, advisory councils and partnership programs, reporting and disclosure expectations
Industry trade associations Ongoing participation in sustainability steering and working groups
Local communities and  community groupsDirect inquiries and feedback, face-to-face meetings annually
Media Direct inquiries and feedbackSustainability  
at Colgate14
Governance
Colgate’s Governance PrinciplesGovernance 
Governance is an ongoing commitment 
shared by our Board of Directors, our 
management, and all Colgate People. 
Colgate’s Board of Directors believes that strong corporate governance accompanies 
and promotes our long-term business 
success. This success has been the direct 
result of Colgate’s key business strategies: 
Engaging to Build Our Brands; Innovation for Growth; Effectiveness and Efficiency; and 
Leading to Win. The Company’s strategic 
focus is on core product categories, global brands, and people development programs, 
with an emphasis on pay for performance 
and the highest standards of integrity. Colgate’s Board has been at the center of 
these key strategies, helping to design and 
implement them, and seeing that they guide 
the Company’s operations.
The Board believes that the Company 
has consistently been at the forefront of good corporate governance. Reflecting its 
commitment to continuous improvement, 
the Board reviews its governance practices 
on an ongoing basis to ensure that they 
promote shareholder value. GOVERNANCE POLICES:
• Director Independence Standards
• Independent Board  
Candidate Qualifications
• Board Guidelines on Significant 
Corporate Governance Issues
GOVERNANCE PRACTICES:
• Board Independence,  
Expertise and Accountability
• Robust Director Stock Ownership 
Guidelines
• Established Policies Guide Governance and Business Integrity
• Board Focused on Key  
Business Priorities
• Diverse Board of Directors
• Direct Access to Management
• Enduring Management Accountability
• Board Practices Promote Effective Oversight
• Continuous Improvement Through Evaluation and Education
 To learn more, visit the Governance section on Colgate’s website at colgatepalmolive.com.
1415
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017A Sustainability Steering Committee 
composed of Colgate’s Chief 
Operating Officer, North America, 
Europe, Africa/Eurasia and Global Sustainability; Vice President, Global Sustainability, EHS and Supply Chain 
Strategy; Chief Technology Officer; 
Chief Human Resources Officer; Vice President, Global Compensation and Benefits; Chief Marketing Officer; 
and Chief Supply Chain Officer 
makes strategic decisions related to sustainability and guides the 
organization to meet sustainability 
goals. Colgate’s Vice President, Global Sustainability, EHS, and Supply Chain Strategy has direct responsibility for 
implementing sustainability and EHS 
programs. For our annual corporate social responsibility report, the Global Sustainability team gathers the 
content cross-functionally and the 
Sustainability Steering Committee reviews the final report content. 
Additionally, networks of senior 
leaders in each division and 
local champions support on-the-ground sustainability efforts, communications, and reporting. 
Global functions such as Human 
Resources, Packaging, Procurement, and Technology coordinate certain aspects of the program where global consistency is appropriate. Moreover, 
to integrate sustainability tracking and 
disclosures into our business strategy, operations, and employee review process, Colgate’s global sustainability 
initiatives have been added to team 
goals and individual objectives used to determine the compensation for many of Colgate’s senior managers.
Colgate’s Chairman, President and 
CEO, and full Board of Directors are kept informed of the Company’s progress via regular updates and 
consider sustainability matters, 
risks, and opportunities in decision-making. Sustainability is considered an emerging risk as part of our 
Enterprise Risk Management process. 
Additionally, Colgate’s Chief Financial Officer provides the Audit Committee 
of the Board of Directors with an 
update on the Company’s Enterprise Management Program. The Personnel and Organization Committee of 
the Board reviews the Company’s 
sustainability and social responsibility programs and other public interest matters, including cultural diversity, 
equal opportunity, charitable giving, 
and international human rights.Sustainability Governance 
For a complete list of Colgate Policy Statements please visit  
colgatepalmolive.com/our-policies.
Governance 16
Business Integrity 
Colgate is committed to doing business with integrity and respect for all people and for the world around us. With 
governance and ethics principles embedded into Company culture as well as standards supporting the well-being of all Colgate people, Colgate ensures its business success goes hand-in-hand with business integrity.
The Colgate EthicsLine provides a means for employees and external parties to ask questions, obtain guidance or report any suspected violations of the Code of Conduct. We work to create a workplace free of inappropriate or unlawful behavior in which people are encouraged to share their concerns with the Company without fear of retaliation. Consequently, at Colgate no adverse action will be taken against any employee, former employee, agent, or third party for complaining about, reporting, participating in or assisting in the investigation of a suspected violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct, Company policy or applicable law unless the allegation made or information provided is found to be intentionally false or was not made in good faith.
All reporting activity provided when Colgate 
People “Speak Up” is reviewed and, if deemed to be a potential violation of the Code of Conduct or Business Practices Guidelines, the matter is promptly and thoroughly investigated by Global Ethics & Compliance and/or the Global Legal Organization.
In 2017, Ethics and Compliance received 
436 contacts through a variety of channels including the EthicsLine, Ethics web tool and ethics@colpal.com, which covered a 
wide variety of reporting activities including 44 consultations. Allegations reported to Ethics and Compliance are grouped into the following categories: Accounting related, Conflict of Interest, Discrimination; Financial-related; Harassment; Regulatory and Legal Retaliation; Work Environment; Miscellaneous Issues (“Other”); and non-Ethics and Compliance matters. After a thorough investigation has been completed, if the allegations are substantiated, appropriate remedial action is taken.Governance 
BUSINESS PRACTICES 
GUIDELINES TOPICS:
•  Advertising and Advertising Placement
•  Anti-Bribery Laws
•  Antitrust and Competition Laws
•  Confidentiality
•  Conflicts of Interest  
• Corporate Governance
•  Data Protection and Privacy
•  International Trade Regulations
• Product Integrity
• Social Media
•  Anti-HarassmentCODE OF CONDUCT AND GLOBAL BUSINESS PRACTICES GUIDELINES
Since 1987, our Code of Conduct has served 
as a guide for our daily business interactions, reflecting our corporate values and our standard for ethical behavior. Our Code of Conduct is available in 40 different languages. One hundred percent of salaried and clerical Colgate people participate in annual training and certification 
on the Code of Conduct. Factory workers certify 
annually and complete training every other year. Our audit firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , audits a cross-section of these certifications. Colgate’s Global Business Practices Guidelines provide further information to our employees on key topics in our Code of Conduct. The Guidelines offer clear, practical guidance and illustrate how the values and principles outlined in the Code of Conduct apply to particular business situations. Topics addressed by our Business Practices Guidelines include:17
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017No Political 
Contributions 
Colgate has a long-standing 
policy against making contributions to political parties or candidates, which is set forth in our Code of Conduct and Global Business Practices Guidelines. These policies prohibit Company contributions to any political party or candidate whether federal, state, or local. We also prohibit U.S. trade associations from using any portion of Colgate dues for political contributions, and we conduct an annual reminder and certification process to ensure trade association awareness and compliance.Anti-Bribery
Colgate has a strict policy prohibiting bribery of governmental officials and private commercial parties anywhere we do business. This policy is outlined in the Code of Conduct and Global Business Practices Guidelines. Colgate also mandates that the third parties with whom we work comply with our anti-bribery policy, which is included in our Third Party Code of Conduct and further communicated to third parties through our global due diligence process. This process utilizes a third-party tool to review and evaluate all priority third parties that interact with governmental officials. It also requires the third-party to train employees on this topic.Training
Colgate’s compliance training, uses a mixture of classroom and online training and covers numerous priority ethical topics, including anti-bribery, competition law, privacy and trade compliance as well as the Code of Conduct certification referenced above. The Code training includes up to six topic areas every year, and the scenarios are updated on an annual basis. Many of these courses have run continuously for more than eight years. Every year, 100 percent of salaried and clerical employees complete the Code of Conduct training and every other year all employees complete the course. Training is mandatory and is linked to compensation for certain employee populations.
Communication
Communicating an ethical message is a critical part of Colgate’s Maintaining the Highest Ethical Standards pro -
gram. It is imperative that all employees are fully aware of the ethical policies. Colgate’s branded message, “Learn, Act, Speak Up” is communi-cated continually including on the Ethics and Compliance website, app, posters, wallet cards, and local engagement presentations worldwide. Re -
peating the message utilizing various formats is important to gain employee awareness and comprehension.Privacy and  
Data Protection
Colgate respects the 
privacy of its employees, consumers, customers, suppliers, and other third parties with whom we have a business relationship, and therefore, we handle personal data responsibly and in accordance with all applicable data privacy and data protection laws. For additional information, refer to our Privacy Policy on colgatepalmolive.com.
Governance 18
Our employees are the foundation of our success. 
Colgate is committed to helping our people reach their career and personal goals, offering an array of resources to help expand their professional and personal horizons — from stimulating career opportunities and access to world-class learning and leadership development programs, to wellness initiatives, and providing opportunities to contribute to the communities where we live and work. Through these programs, Colgate helps employees stay engaged, rewarded, and focused on delivering products and services that exceed our consumers’ expectations. Supporting  
Colgate PeopleOur PeoplePeople
1819
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Our 
Approach
To achieve our goals, we must prepare 
the next generation to lead, and as a 
company, we must lead by example. 
We are committed to doing so with integrity. We are adapting to changing 
times and recognize the important 
role organizational diversity and an 
inclusive work environment play in our 
global success. We strive to support all Colgate employees to perform at their 
fullest potential. We work to attract and 
retain talented individuals who provide leadership and grow the Company. Our 
Performance Management process is 
structured to align all individual and team objectives to our global strategy 
and help us to achieve our business 
goals. This process fosters coaching 
and feedback and ensures that people 
are focused on the right priorities. Our strong learning curriculum reaches all 
functions worldwide, with 3,000 certified 
Colgate instructors and more than 300 courses relating to functional areas of 
expertise, ethics and compliance, and 
leadership skills. In 2017, we introduced a continuous model of Performance 
Management called Performance 
“Check-Ins” to help build a coaching 
culture at Colgate where people feel 
comfortable teaching others and learning through transparent and honest 
professional development conversations.PROMOTING  
COLGATE AS  
THE EMPLOYER  
OF CHOICE  
To strengthen our talent 
attraction efforts, in 2017, we launched our employer brand to share our value 
proposition with the global 
talent pool. Communicating a consistent, global message about who we are as an employer helps us to attract potential candidates that share our values and vision. 
It also helps our current 
employees feel proud about where they work, ultimately improving workplace satisfaction and productivity. 20
Building a Future 
to Smile About
DIVERSE EXPERIENCES 
We are truly global. Our  
diverse perspectives, work 
experiences and cultures 
make us strong. We work 
with our global colleagues across borders, boundaries and functions to learn, grow, and win together.COLLABORATION 
We work together globally,  
to perform at our best locally, always with unwavering 
integrity. Colgate People 
welcome each day as an opportunity to improve on the last by building trust with one another and sharing new ideas.AUTHENTICITY 
Our work environments  
encourage everyone to  
participate and be their  
authentic selves. Our caring  
culture fuels a passionate workplace that drives  
innovation and our  
enduring success.
Who We AreWe also developed a global social media framework that 
strengthens Colgate’s employer branding and digital presence, 
resulting in the increase of our talent community and a healthy 
candidate pipeline. Nearly 7,000 people visit our job portal every month and an increasing number engage with us on social platforms like LinkedIn, Glassdoor, and Facebook.
As a truly global company, our diverse backgrounds enable 
us to respond to the needs and aspirations of the billions we serve worldwide. We strive to ensure that we maintain a focus 
on diversity and minority recruitment to reflect internally the 
communities in which we work and live. By doing so, innovation is driven through a diverse set of ideas, approaches and backgrounds and through engaging with various affinity groups 
and diversity organizations.• TRULY GLOBAL
• FORWARD THINKING
• TEAM PLAYERS
•  CARING 
• CONSUMER FOCUSED
• COLLABORATIVE 
• PURPOSE-DRIVEN 
• TRUSTWORTHY 
• DIVERSEPeople21
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Building a  
Coaching Culture
In 2017, we focused on building a 
coaching culture at Colgate and 
introduced a continuous model using 
performance check-ins. Check-ins are quarterly conversations between managers and their team member(s) to 
coach and reflect on results and behaviors 
and make real-time adjustments as needed to maximize performance. To facilitate this process, we also introduced 
a new mobile app with which employees 
and managers can provide real-time progress updates. 
To enhance coaching skills and provide 
practical guidance for our employees and managers, we promoted our Coaching 
Clinics, a series of podcasts, infographics 
and videos. Eighty-eight percent of our learners indicated that they had a better understanding of the topic because of 
this content.We also partnered with NeuroLeadership Institute and successfully piloted the 
“Connect” Coaching Program, designed to enhance everyday coaching skills. Launched to an initial 100 global 
participants, this digital learning solution 
consisted of three hours of content that was delivered over a span of 30 days through videos, research summaries, 
practice tools, and webinars. Feedback 
from the pilot was very positive:
• 90 percent of learners said they were better equipped to have effective every-
day conversations that develop direct 
reports and/or team members 
• 100 percent of the learners said they were demonstrating new behaviors one 
to three times a week resulting in more 
productive outcomes with direct reports and/team members
• 94 percent of learners said they would recommend this program to others
An additional 1,100 managers completed the “Connect” Coaching Program in 2017, and we are committed to have all people 
managers participate in “Connect”   
going forward.
Creating a 
Continuous Learning Environment
In 2017, Colgate People completed 
approximately 450,000 total hours of 
training in our global curriculum as well 
as additional hours of locally required safety, environmental, and other regulatory training. We estimate that our salaried and 
clerical employees completed an average of 
20 hours of training per person.
In 2017, we also began transforming our 
learning strategy to better meet the evolving 
expectations of the modern workforce and 
create a continuous learning environment. Our focus is to develop individual and 
organizational capabilities that drive growth 
by offering learning experiences aligned to our business strategy. 
As part of this strategy, we developed our new 
learning platform designed to ignite people’s curiosity and inform them of the latest industry trends so they can better innovate, collaborate, and grow. The platform provides 
Colgate People with an engaging, interactive 
resource where they can access a wealth of information and tools. The platform, launching 
globally in 2018, aggregates more than 35,000 
pieces of digital learning content from both internal and external sources. Colgate People can also connect with subject matter experts 
and instantaneously share ideas with their 
colleagues around the world. 22
Supporting our global Colgate employees includes a serious commitment to health 
and wellness, beginning with an acute awareness that 70 percent of chronic diseases 
such as stroke, heart disease, and cancer are preventable.1 By creating a healthy 
work environment and encouraging Colgate People to develop healthy habits, we are helping our employees live longer, more fulfilling lives.
Our Approach 
We promote physical, emotional, and financial wellness for Colgate People and their 
families. Just as we create products that build brighter futures for everyone, our 
goal is to help our people live better every day by providing support and resources 
to help them make healthy choices at work and at home to live a more balanced, 
thriving life.Employee Health 
and Wellness  
Prevention & Awareness
• Offer our employees the 
opportunity to participate in our Health Risk Assessment.
• Ensure Colgate People and their families have access to preventive immunizations and dental care.
• Provide confidential HIV-AIDs testing and awareness education.
 
Healthy Lifestyles
• Support development of healthy 
habits relating to physical activity and nutrition.
• Encourage smoking cessation.Organizational Support
• Create a culture that values employee engagement, work-life balance and community outreach. 
• Remain committed to a safe and healthy work environment with a goal of zero work place accidents.  
Resilience & Stress
• Provide Colgate People with comprehensive, market-competitive benefits in each country.
• Offer a range of programs based upon regional availability and interest, including yoga, access to gyms, stress 
management programs and access to 
counseling services through Employee Assistance Program, Colgate medical or government- sponsored programs.
• Elevate employee financial  
awareness planning.Key elements of our Employee 
Health and Wellness Strategy 
include:COLGATE EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLNESS STRATEGYPeople
Organizational Support Resilience & Stress Healthy Life styles Prevention & Awareness
✔
✔✔✔+Organizational Support Resilience & Stress Healthy Life styles Prevention & Awareness
✔✔✔✔+Organizational Support Resilience & Stress Healthy Life styles Prevention & Awareness
✔✔✔✔+Organizational Support Resilience & Stress Healthy Life styles Prevention & Awareness
✔✔✔✔+Resilience & Stress Organizational Support Healthy Lifestyles Prevention & Awareness 
1. Source: http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2018/who-at-70/en/23
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Prevention & Awareness
Health Risk Assessment
The Health Risk Assessment (HRA) is 
a powerful online tool that includes questions on biometric measures such 
as blood pressure and cholesterol to 
help employees self-evaluate their health status, understand health risks, and provide confidential feedback to motivate behavior change and improve health outcomes. Colgate aggregates 
this data anonymously to focus our 
Live Better programs on the highest risk factors for Colgate People. The HRA is currently available to over 60 percent of our employees in 50 countries. Progress Highlights
OUR  
PROGRESSOUR  
GOAL
Reduce health risks associated with an unhealthy  
lifestyle for employees as a result of our Employee  
Health and Wellness Strategy (%)10% 15%
Encourage employee participation  
rate in the Healthy Activity Challenge (%)60% 50% - 65%
Provide employees access to Preventive  
Oral Care (% of employees) 83% 95%
Provide employees access to preventive immunizations  
(% of employees)   80% 100%
Provide employees a No Smoking work  
environment (%) 100% 100%
Provide employees with tobacco free  
sites/campus (cumulative)7 Increase
HEALTH RISK 
ASSESSMENTS  
When anonymously 
aggregating HRA data, 
we found that the 
highest risk factors for Colgate People are:
Poor Nutrition
Physical Inactivity
High StressBody Weight24
“Live Better” through Nature walks in India.HIV/AIDS Prevention
Colgate remains committed to 
helping employees, their loved ones, and our communities combat HIV/
AIDS. Colgate’s commitment in the 
fight against HIV/AIDS is based on our values and our sustainability commitments to “Promote 
Healthier Lives” and “Contribute to 
the Communities Where We Live 
and Work. ”  
• Colgate-Palmolive South Africa 
holds an annual AIDS Week 
in early December to ensure 
continued awareness of HIV/AIDS, reduce stigma against HIV/AIDS patients, and provide testing. Our 
theme in 2017 was “Increasing 
Impact through Transparency, Accountability, and Partnership. ” 
• Under the “Positive Step” program in India, Colgate sponsors children 
infected or affected by HIV/
AIDS by providing nutrition and education and paying their school fees. This year, Colgate India 
hosted 100 children for lunch, play, 
and to share a memorable day together.  
Healthy Lifestyles
Global Healthy Activity Challenge
Our annual Live Better Global 
Healthy Activity Challenge 
encourages all Colgate employees 
to track and log at least 500 minutes of healthy activity over one month. Colgate People engage colleagues, 
family, and friends to get active and 
earn minutes through a range of activities. In June 2017, Colgate People from more than 100 countries participated in a variety of healthy activities ranging from yoga 
classes and soccer tournaments to nature 
walks, logging a total of more than 27 million minutes of healthy activity.
“Live Better” through Soccer in Vietnam.
People25
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Healthy meal carts are provided to CP people 
in Guatemala.Nutrition
Colgate locations also include nutrition 
education and resources in their Live 
Better programs with events, such as 
healthy cooking demonstrations, nutrition 
workshops, healthy option educational sessions, and serving healthy breakfasts and lunches. A nutrition toolkit is also available to Colgate employees on the Company’s 
intranet site.
We also partner with our food service 
vendors to increase the number of healthy options in employee cafeterias. Sites from all over the world are implementing local programs to encourage healthy nutrition at work, including healthy cooking 
demonstrations, healthy meal carts or days, 
and the labeling of healthy foods.  
Smoking Cessation
Smoking cessation continues to be an 
important aspect of Live Better at Colgate. 
Our culture of Caring supports good health 
and encourages our people to quit tobacco use. In our effort to move toward smoke free campuses, we have begun offering smoking cessation programs.
Organizational Support
We are committed to creating a culture of health and wellness through programs such as our benefit packages and employee 
reward and recognition programs, which 
help measure progress and encourage engagement.
 
Benefits
Colgate People are our greatest asset. 
Recognizing that the success of our company is driven by our talented and dedicated employees, we offer market-competitive benefit programs. 
While specific program offerings for eligible 
employees vary by country according to 
local regulations and practice, typically benefit programs include:
• retirement savings
• health and wellness plans• working from home arrangements
• tuition benefits
• flexible work arrangements
• adoption benefits
• back-up childcare options
• financial seminars & employee  
networking group  
Financial Well-Being
Colgate supports employees’ financial 
security goals at every stage of their working lives, not just retirement. To 
support employees, Colgate developed a 
financial wellness toolkit, available in seven languages. The toolkit focuses on three areas: creating wealth, managing wealth, and enjoying wealth. Our financial education 
program aims to help Colgate People 
learn to live within a budget, fund their children’s education, finance their homes, and manage their debt. We also continue to offer comprehensive education to both our salaried and non-salaried personnel 
in the U.S., including classroom training, 
webinar programming and personal financial counseling sessions via a third-party provider. We also offer additional programs to meet the needs of employees and their 
families where they live.
26
Colgate has a long-standing commitment to respecting human and labor rights 
worldwide and supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights and the International Labor Organization (ILO) Core Labor Standards. 
Colgate works with and seeks out business partners who share our commitment to 
universal human rights. We recognize the responsibility of businesses to respect 
labor rights and engage with stakeholders adherence to universal human rights. 
Protecting human and labor rights is one of our key sustainability issues identified 
on page 12.
To learn more about our human rights strategy and management approach, 
please see our Human Rights Policy. Our Commitment to  
Universal Human Rights 
Diversity & 
Inclusion 
Workplace Diversity
Colgate’s objective is to foster an 
inclusive workplace that reflects the diversity of the global marketplace. 
Our business strategy of driving and 
funding growth, and becoming the best place to work depends on the fullest contributions of all employees, wherever they are. Colgate is commit -
ted to providing inclusive employment, 
training, compensation, promotion 
opportunities, and all other terms and conditions of employment.
Colgate’s Diversity and Inclusion 
Strategy consists of six key components: 
• Objective setting and review
• Talent management
• Diversity recruiting
• People development and training
• Diversity and inclusion  
leadership councils
• ComplianceColgate provides all employees worldwide with a series of training programs focused on building 
leadership skills. Valuing Colgate 
People, Managing With Respect, and Fostering an Inclusive Work Environment are a few examples of our training programs. Fostering an 
Inclusive Work Environment provides a 
broad awareness of diversity and skills to work with diverse teams and to serve an increasingly diverse customer base.
A critical piece of our diversity 
strategy is to ensure that our talent management process incorporates 
the professional development of 
women and minorities. Colgate also partners with organizations such as the Conference Board, Diversity Best 
Practic  es, and the National As sociation 
for Female Executives, Working Mother Media, DiversityInc., the American Association for People with Disabilities, 
and the Asian American Business 
Development Center to develop an effective and supportive work environment.People27
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017To help foster an atmosphere of inclu-
siveness, Colgate supports employee resource groups made up of team 
members representing many different 
perspectives, backgrounds, and ways of life. In addition, a Colgate’s Inclu-sive Leadership Council, consisting of employee resource group leaders, is committed to nurturing programming 
aimed at diversity and inclusion to 
ensure optimal efficiency, effective -
ness and support of the Company’s business objectives. The council, which meets three times a year, provides the 
resource groups with an additional ve -
hicle to communicate and collaborate 
across teams.
Diversity leadership councils are 
actively operating in North America, Global Supply Chain, and Hill’s Pet Nutrition. A selection of Colgate 
resource groups includes Asian Action 
2017 Highlights
• Colgate continues 
its commitment to American Corporate 
Partners (ACP), a 
national non-profit organization dedicated to helping post-9/11 veterans successfully transition back into 
the private sector. 
Since 2014, Colgate employees have volunteered with ACP to help returning veterans 
through one-on-one 
mentoring, networking, and online career advice. To date, 68 Colgate Mentors have provided counseling 
and guidance to 85 
veterans.• In 2017, Colgate announced a two-year North American partnership with Magnusmode, the company behind 
MagnusCards, an innovative mobile app 
that helps people living with cognitive special needs to independently manage daily skills like tooth brushing. Closely developed with oral health experts at Colgate, the five new oral care decks 
include: brushing, brushing with braces, 
rinsing, flossing, and visiting the dental office. This partnership was developed in collaboration with the Colgate Abilities Network (CAN). CAN strives to ensure 
Colgate’s business goals are connected to 
the global disability market, and serves as a valued resource to our Colgate colleagues around the world. Colgate’s Caring values extends to enabling people with special needs to manage their daily 
oral care activities, and ultimately, to build 
a future they can smile about.
Network, Black Leadership Network, Colgate 
Women’s Network, Colgate LGBT and Allies, Colgate Parents Network, Hill’s Diversity Council, Hispanic Action Network, and Colgate Abilities Network.
For more information, adherence to universal 
human rights.
Colgate people continue to focus on the power of a smile 
bringing people together, during Colgate’s Smile with Pride event.28
Supplier  
Diversity 
Established in 1998, our Supplier Diver -
sity program is embedded in our U.S.-
based organization with clear goals to 
drive growth. We drive performance through our quarterly Supplier Diver -
sity Forums, and we collaborate with 
our suppliers to support our goals. Our 
procurement teams are encouraged to seek suppliers that add value and inno -
vation while delivering cost savings.
Approach
We maintain accountability by 
incorporating high standards and objectives for Supplier Diversity for 
procurement buyers and managers. 
Our competitive proposal processes include fostering a continuously diverse network of suppliers. Suppliers 
interested in doing business with us 
may register and upload their current certification documents to our supplier diversity database. As part of the 
registration process, the supplier 
provides content including basic company information, capabilities and certification documents. The 
database is a highly efficient way for 
suppliers to share their capabilities and learn about business opportunities. We also collaborate with our internal 
stakeholders to identify needs and 
research diverse suppliers with relevant capabilities.
    
We recognize our diverse suppliers for the value-added solutions, cost savings, and continuous improvement 
they have provided over the years. We 
have recognized some of our suppliers as well for their participation and contributions in support of Supplier 
Diversity by using and mentoring 
diverse businesses for success.  Equal Pay 
Colgate is committed to pay equity and its role in fostering a diverse and 
inclusive workplace. It is our policy 
to select, place, and pay all Colgate People on the basis of qualification for the work performed, without 
discrimination. Consistent with these 
values, Colgate has committed to conducting an annual company-wide gender pay analysis across occupations 
in the United States, along with other steps to promote equal pay and fairness. This annual pay analysis covers 
race and ethnicity in addition to gender, 
in accordance with Colgate’s policy, to 
compensate each individual at a level commensurate with his or her role, work location, individual performance, 
and experience irrespective of gender, 
race, ethnicity, or any other category protected by law. Colgate also complies with all applicable laws and regulations 
related to fair pay practices.People29
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Progress
We have made progress toward 
these goals in 2017:
• To support our supplier diversity goals, our teams have set objectives 
such as inclusion of diversity spend 
requirements in contracts with first-tier suppliers, maximizing second-tier spend opportunities 
and execution of targeted supplier 
day forums to engage and build relationships. In 2017, Colgate spent 5.4 percent of our total U.S. 
procurement spend of $3 billion 
with diverse suppliers.
We have delivered growth with our supplier partners, including: 
• We have increased our spend over the last two years on Pacific Rim 
Capital, Colgate’s preferred material 
handling equipment lessor and a minority-owned business, by 30 percent.
• We increased our spend with partner U.S. Chemicals by 12 percent 
across a portfolio of materials in 
eight categories over the last two years, helping the supplier grow and expand in spend and material 
coverage.Supplier Diversity Recognition
Colgate has been recognized and 
awarded for various contributions in supplier diversity. The following 
recognitions were received in 2017:
• Top 50 Corporations for Diversity 
by Diversitybusiness.com 
• Women’s President Education Organization Recognized for 
Commitment to the Success of 
Women Business Enterprises
• NY/NJ Minority Supplier Development Appreciation Award 
for Outstanding Contribution and 
Commitment 
• Minority Business News—Corporate Buyers of the Year 
• Minority Business News—2017 Champions of Supplier Diversity
• Award of Excellence—Odyssey International Productions
• 100 Black Men Advocacy Award
• WE Magazine Women Impacting Supplier Diversity30
Occupational Health and Safety 
The health and safety of our employees and the communities in which we operate is 
paramount in all we do; our goal is zero incidents. Colgate People around the world are 
committed to being “Colgate Careful” (having safety standards in place that meet or 
exceed the local safety regulations) by maintaining a robust safety culture and healthy and safe working conditions.
FOCUS AREAS OF COLGATE’S OCCUPATIONAL  
HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
Chemicals
Proper techniques and procedures to protect employees handling, processing, and transferring chemicals
Noise/Physical Hazards
Ensure appropriate controls are in place to protect workers from noise and physical 
hazards
Hierarchy of Controls/
Hazard Communication:Anticipate, recognize, and control hazards in the 
workplace
Ergonomics
Minimize ergonomics stressors from manual 
operations
Laboratories
Specific programs to address the unique risks associated with work in laboratories
Occupational Medical 
StandardsCoordinated programs to conduct medical surveillance 
for individuals with exposure 
potentialSAFETY
Injury and Illness  
ManagementStrong foundational programs to report, investigate, and  
establish appropriate correc -
tive actions for incidents
Equipment and  
Operational Hazards
Proper machine and equipment safeguarding, with 
robust operational procedures
Materials Handling  
and Storage
Provide robust technical systems and training to ensure 
safe handling and storage of 
materials
Temporary Labor, 
Contractors, and Facilities
Programs to protect 
contractors, temporary labor, and visitors
Process Safety
Strong programs for process 
hazards that pose significant 
site and community risk
Fire and Loss Prevention
Aligned programs to mitigate 
risks from fire and explosionsPeople31
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017The President’s 
Safety Award 
Program 
recognizes Colgate 
sites as they 
achieve specific 
milestones of 
time in years and/
or hours without 
a Lost Workday 
Injury or Illness. 
In 2017, 29 of our manufacturing 
facilities received 
one or more 
awards.
GLOBAL SAFETY STATISTICS While our 2017 safety results showed a slight 
decline in performance over our 2016 results, 
they are consistent with results achieved 
over the last several years. Our performance continues to remain in the top quartile of multinational companies we annually 
benchmark and share data with. Our total 
recordable rate (TRR) was 0.27 and reduced slightly vs. 2016, and our lost work case rate (LWCR) was 0.08, up slightly from 2016. To 
ensure we maintain our world-class safety 
performance, we are establishing a new critical risk-focused program in 2018. This 
focus will help to further enhance our solid 
defensive plans in place to mitigate incidents that could cause a serious outcome.
In 2017, we received independent third-
party verification of our health and safety 
data collection and reporting processes as 
well as the data itself . As part of this project, the number of hours worked, number of 
lost-time incidents, number of recordable 
incidents and number of occupational fatalities were verified.
per 200,000 work hours
00.51.01.52.02.5
Total Recordable Rate              Lost Workday Case Rate   
2013 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 199832
2017 Safety Highlights
Risk-Based Management
We continue to sharpen our focus on risk-based 
safety management with a goal to eliminate 
fatalities and serious incidents. This approach 
involves an assessment of the severity of an event as well as the degree of control over the outcome. In 2014, we began requiring our 
manufacturing sites to prepare an annual risk 
assessment and preventive and corrective action plans. This expectation has been formally incorporated into our Environmental, 
Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) 
Management System and is reviewed during management reviews and audits to ensure our 
most significant risks are adequately controlled.
Electrical Safety was identified as one of our 
highest life safety risks. Nearly all high-risk findings from the safety assessment of our power distribution systems conducted by a 
third-party have been addressed.
Fork Truck Safety
Given the nature of our operations, fork 
trucks are widely used in our manufacturing 
sites and warehouses. In 2016, a team of 
EOHS professionals from across North and Latin America developed a mapping and risk assessment process to minimize the potential 
for fork truck/pedestrian accidents. Based on 
the team’s recommendations, we created a risk assessment process, established pedestrian fork truck traffic maps, and installed blue 
awareness lights on the majority of our fork 
trucks. The process developed by the Americas’ 
team formed the basis for the 2017 changes to 
the Colgate Material Handling Standard.Reducing Noise, Dust and  
Chemical Exposures
Colgate measures exposure levels with the help of third-party industrial hygiene 
experts. Colgate has been working 
to reduce noise, dust, and chemical exposures in our facilities for many years. Our goal is to reduce the number of people 
who must wear hearing protectors or 
chemical cartridge respirators for a full shift. We are making positive progress:
• As of December 2017, we decreased the 
mandatory use of hearing protection to 
44 percent from a 2014 baseline of 49 
percent. 
• As of December 2017, we reduced our mandatory use of respirators from 2014’s 
baseline of 5.3 percent to 2.3 percent. 
• We reduced our mandatory use of 
respirators from 2014’s baseline of 5.3 
percent to 2.3 percent in 2017. We are 
proud that two of our divisions have achieved zero use of respirators, and we work to continue to reduce usage 
globally.
Reducing Ergonomic Exposure
Since the 2015 launch of our global 
ergonomic risk reduction program, Colgate 
has made significant progress in the 
completion rates of our action plan. As we closed 2017, we had achieved 80 percent completion of the program’s elements.
Colgate continues to expand the use of 
collaborative robots to drive efficiency 
and reduce the amount of repetitive or ergonomically challenging tasks completed by workers. As we bring this 
new technology into our manufacturing 
operations, we are following ISO 10218-1, ISO 15066, and RIA TR R15306 guidelines. People33
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017This system helps us identify 
potential or reasonably foreseeable 
contact between operator and 
robot system, understand risks, assess occurrence of exposure, and develop a risk reduction model that 
targets elimination of hazards. Two 
of our sites have fully implemented collaborative robot systems and have completed assessments to allow the 
safe interface with workers in the 
immediate vicinity. 
Safety Week is our annual opportunity 
to provide employee engagement 
events and activities to continue to demonstrate and celebrate our 
commitment to our EOHS Guiding 
Principles and foster the safety culture of each of our sites. Each March, Colgate holds a company-wide Safety Week, sharing best practices and refreshing our commitment to 
health and safety. This week remains 
a cornerstone of our safety culture and provides an opportunity to focus on fundamentals, and each facility’s own creativity delivers a solid and exciting week year after year. Several Safety Week events also include Colgate families in fun and educational activities. Several Safety Week events also include Colgate families in fun 
and education activities, including a 
children’s safety art contest. 
• Employees opened Safety Week 
with a pledge to work safely and completed training on Colgate’s 
Minimum Safe Behaviors. Many 
facilities also conducted spill drills, evacuation drills and medical evacuation drills.2017 Safety Week HighlightsSafety Incentives
We have improved our safety-related 
incentive mechanisms by linking 
compensation to behaviors that drive a 
robust safety culture. These behaviors include training completion, physical inspections, corrective action completion, 
behavioral observations, and participation 
in activities that engage employees. We do not link compensation to recordable rates and lost-time accidents.
• We conducted Hand Trap Treasure 
Hunts throughout our facilities. Employees search for unguarded 
or insufficiently guarded machines, 
unlabeled machinery hazardous access points, unguarded power transmission points, malfunctioning/inoperable interlocks on removable guards, and pinch points. Once the 
hand trap was identified, a Hand 
Trap Treasure Hunt sticker was 
applied to the area.34
Third Party Code of Conduct 
Colgate People are committed to the 
highest standards of integrity and 
full compliance with the Company’s 
Code of Conduct. It is our goal to ensure that our relationships with our suppliers and business partners reflect 
and support the same high ethical 
standards. 
Colgate’s Third Party Code of 
Conduct establishes the Company’s 
expectations for suppliers and 
business partners in a number of critical areas, including labor practices and universal human rights, protecting 
the environment, health and safety, 
and ethical dealings. Sections of the Third Party Code are modeled on, or contain language from, the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the 
standards of the International Labor Organization.
The Code is provided to suppliers 
and business partners, and Colgate’s 
contracts and purchase orders typically require suppliers to abide by the Code’s standards (or suppliers’ 
comparable code standards), 
including applicable labor and equal employment laws as well as 
environmental, occupational health 
and safety regulations, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and Colgate’s Anti-Bribery policy. Assessing and Managing  
Supplier Risk 
As a multinational company with a global supply chain, adverse actions 
and events associated with our 
supply chain could affect Colgate’s reputation as a responsible company. To manage the risk to the Company 
and to the workers in our supply 
chain, Colgate has a formal process to identify and manage social, ethical, and environmental risks in 
our supply chain and with other 
business partners. Colgate’s Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment 
(SRSA) program requires selected 
suppliers and business partners to complete a self-assessment focused on labor practices, human 
rights, worker health and safety, 
environmental management, and business integrity. Risk factors considered in the selection of 
suppliers to participate in the program 
include: geographic risks (using the Verisk Maplecroft Risk Indexes); 
Colgate’s in-country knowledge; 
industry-associated risks; and business criticality to our operations. Through the use of a supplier risk assessment 
scorecard, selected suppliers and 
business partners are scored against critical risk factors to determine the need to conduct a social compliance 
audit. When a supplier is assessed 
as high risk, a third-party audit of its facility is required. To date, Colgate 
has assessed over 550 supplier and 
business partner facilities via the SRSA program, commissioned more than 215 site audits, and reviewed 
an additional 267 supplier audits 
commissioned on behalf of other supplier customers. 
As a member of the Supplier Ethical 
Data Exchange (Sedex), Colgate uses 
the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol when required Responsible 
Sourcing People35
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017SUPPLIER 
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING 
ASSESSMENTS
Through 
the Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment program, Colgate has assessed the performance of more than 80 percent of our suppliers in high-risk geographies since 2012, driving improved working conditions for more than 41,000 employees across our external  
supply chain.to assess suppliers’ compliance with 
laws covering freedom of association, 
forced and child labor, health and 
safety, wages and benefits, working hours, and discrimination as well as environmental and business ethics 
matters. Since the program’s inception 
in 2012, Colgate has assessed more than 80 percent of our spend, exceeding our 2017 target with 
suppliers in high-risk geographies, 
including raw material and packaging suppliers, contract manufacturers, 
co-packing facilities, and warehousing 
operations. Internally, Colgate has also completed assessments of all manufacturing facilities and 
conducted social compliance audits 
at all facilities located in high-risk geographies.
Colgate is also a member of AIM-
PROGRESS, a global industry forum 
dedicated to the promotion of responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. 
Colgate has served on its leadership 
team for the past three years. Through the principle of mutual audit recognition, suppliers share 
noncompetitive audit data with other 
manufacturing companies that often use the same suppliers, enabling us to 
gain information more efficiently and 
relieving the burden of “audit fatigue” on suppliers. 
To further drive improvement in our 
supply chain, Colgate has participated 
in capacity-building sessions through 
the AIM-PROGRESS forum that are designed to improve suppliers’ social 
and environmental performance. 
We have participated in events in Latin America and North America. In addition, Colgate conducts similar 
independent supplier responsible 
sourcing training events for our suppliers. 
 Forced Labor 
Colgate does not use forced labor within our own operations, 
and we strive to eradicate 
forced labor from our supply and value chains. We believe that every worker should have 
freedom of movement, no 
worker should pay for a job and no worker should be indebted or coerced to work. Moreover, 
it is Colgate’s policy not to work 
with any supplier or contractor known to operate with forced 
labor. In June 2017, Colgate 
published our disclosure statement, “Respecting Human Rights and Labor Rights: 
Disclosure Statements, ” in 
compliance with requirements of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, and the 
UK Modern Slavery Act and 
consistent with the CGF Social Resolution.  
Conflict Minerals  
Colgate supports ending the violence and human rights 
violations by armed groups in 
the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and neighboring countries that have been 
funded in part by proceeds 
from the mining of cassiterite, columbite-tantalite (coltan), wolframite and gold, including 
their derivatives tin, tantalum, 
and tungsten (3TGs). For more information, see Colgate’s 
Policy on Conflict Minerals.36
Approach
We have an ambitious target to educate 1.3 billion children through our BSBF program by the year 2020.  
To date, we have grown BSBF through leveraging our six-point plan:
In School —  Colgate partners 
with local schools, ministries 
of health and ministries of education to organize oral health educational classes, and provide free oral health products.
Community Relations —  In some 
countries, BSBF is mobile. In the 
U.S., Colgate’s fleet of mobile dental vans travel to rural and urban communities to provide oral health education, free dental screenings, and treatment referral to children in need, reaching more than 1,000 towns and more than 10 million children each year.
Integrated Marketing 
Communications (IMC)/Trade Partner —  With retail partners 
such as Walmart, the BSBF program engages consumers at local stores and online.
Digital —  Educational resources 
are provided online, including 
downloadable teachers’ guides, videos, oral health games, and apps, which are available in Apple and Google Play stores.
Professional Partnerships —  
Colgate partners with 
government health agencies, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and dental associations to expand the reach of oral care education around the world.
Employee Engagement — 
Colgate often involves our employees in BSBF programs, providing opportunities to volunteer and give back to their local community.Oral Health Education People
Background
Providing oral health education is a Colgate tradition dating back to 1911. Today, Colgate’s flagship Bright Smiles, Bright Futures
® (BSBF) 
program is among the most far-reaching, successful children’s oral health initiatives in the world. With progress in 2017, BSBF has reached more than 1 billion children and their families in over 80 countries since 1991. This success is made possible by numerous contacts across a variety of channels, including classroom instruction from school teachers, dental screenings from dental professionals, educational communication through print, video and digital engagement, community outreach, and international associations, leading academic institutions, government, and non-governmental organizations, such as the Alliance for a Cavity-Free Future, the Global Child Dental Fund, the American Dental Association, and the National Dental Association. 
The cornerstone of BSBF is its award-winning 
educational curriculum. Developed by global experts, the multicultural education materials help illustrate how to maintain healthy teeth and gums, and are implemented in more than 80 countries in 30 languages each year. In several countries, the program materials are part of the permanent school curriculum.
37
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20173737• On April 19, 2017, the Mexico City House of 
Representatives unanimously passed and signed a law that provides daily brushing with fluoride toothpaste for the city’s pre-schools and primary public schools, to improve the oral health of school children. Under the new law, BSBF’s oral hygiene kits will be distributed at the beginning of each school year to each child enrolled in a public kindergarten and primary school under the city’s jurisdiction. This new law will have a lasting impact on over 1 million children. The law was planned, brokered and achieved through the Mexican Dental Association Foundation and Colgate Mexico, and is an excellent example of a successful private/public partnership.
• On July 28, 2017, Colgate-PNG with the National Department of Health invited the people of Papua New Guinea to come together and brush their teeth as a nation to acknowledge the importance of oral health and hygiene. As part of the celebration, there was a countdown on live radio, broadcast around the country from the Ted Diro Community School, Port Moresby. More than 278,000 people came together, from 401 schools and 15 organizations, including hospitals and health centers, simultaneously brushing their teeth.
• During National Brushing Day, Colgate Colombia partnered with the Ministries of Health and Education and dental professionals to bring oral health education to children ages of six through 12. The event involved more than 407,000 children from more than 2,000 primary schools simultaneously brushing their teeth. A social media campaign helped them reach an additional 13 million people across 251 cities in driving the message about the importance of good oral health.Highlights
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
38
38• In June 2017, our key fragrance and flavor supplier 
Firmenich and BSBF teamed up with the Indian Dental Association and Jasmine Concrete (a leading producer of Indian florals extracts), to provide oral health education and free dental screenings to more than 16 smallholder farmer communities in India. The program, which took place over 15 days, was enthusiastically welcomed and was highly effective in raising awareness of the importance of oral care. Dental checkups, screenings, and free dental kits were distributed to more than 3,900 school children, farmers, and pickers. 
• Colgate (India), with other partners, supported an event in Madras to increase awareness on preventive oral health and hygiene. More than 23,000 people came together to set a new record for the largest number of people in Asia brushing their teeth at the same time.
• Colgate North Africa partnered with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Youth to launch a BSBF Campaign to create awareness and educate the community on oral health spanning three countries-Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia. This took place during a children’s fair at a local park, where children and their parents were provided with dental screenings, tooth brushing techniques, games and BSBF kits. This collaboration reached more than 8,500 consumers including 6,000 children. 
• Since 1994, Colgate South Africa has distributed oral health education to nearly 10 million children. Every year, Colgate South Africa’s two BSBF mobile dental vans, partner with the Department of Health, dental students, and professionals to educate, screen, and treat approximately 100,000 children, covering rural and urban area. In addition, BSBF partners with Train of Hope’s Phelophepa Train, a mobile hospital that provides quality primary healthcare to underserved South African communities where health services and medical infrastructure are otherwise unavailable.HighlightsPeople
39
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
Handwashing Education
The simple act of washing hands with 
soap is one of the most effective ways to 
prevent disease transmission, especially 
among children. Handwashing with soap at key times, however, is not widely practiced. As a leading marketer of 
bar and liquid hands soaps, Colgate-
Palmolive, through its brands Protex, Palmolive, and Softsoap, is working with public health officials, academia, 
local schools, and clinics to educate 
millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene benefits of 
handwashing with soap. 
Our global handwashing program 
provides educational materials and sample products to schools and communities, and builds awareness 
through advertising and public relations campaigns. In some countries, 
Colgate teaches handwashing as part of our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) oral care eduction program, 
building the steps for proper 
handwashing into the oral care curriculum and messaging.
Like the oral care component of 
BSBF, the program creates shared 
value for both Colgate and society, helping to improve health outcomes while building brand awareness and 
reputation for Colgate’s Palmolive 
and Protex soap brands.
In 2017, Colgate reached 60 million 
people through advertising, media 
campaigns, community events, and 
educational programs in schools.Handwashing  
EducationPapua New Guinea 40
People
• During this year’s Global Handwashing Day, our 
Protex soap brand partnered with the National Department of Health, World Vision, Anglicare, and Child Fund and contributed funding, hand washing materials, and people’s time to participating schools in Papua New Guinea. This year approximately 13,000 Protex antibacterial soaps were distributed to 382 schools and organizations across Papua New Guinea with 257,000 participants registered for the event.
• For many years, Protex has been carrying out a handwashing campaign in Latin America, to raise awareness about the importance of hand washing hygiene in preserving good health. In Brazil, Colgate teaches handwashing as part of our BSBF oral care education program. Children were taught proper handwashing techniques along with reinforcing our global commitment to “Making Every Drop of Water Count. ” 
• A commitment to support WASH, or water, sanitation and hygiene, program is part of Colgate’s Water Stewardship Strategy and our commitment to partner with local and global organizations to bring clean water to underserved areas of the world. Through our partnership with Water For People, Colgate supports programs that provide access to clean water, sanitation systems, and/or health, and hygiene education, including handwashing. Colgate has contributed to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program, helping them to reach nearly 373,000 people since 2013. Colgate was one of the nine founding members of the 
Global Handwashwing Day campaign, among others 
such as World Bank and UNICEF. Celebrated October 
15th, Global Handwashing Day drives awareness of the vital importance of handwashing with soap and its impact on health.
 Highlights
Handwashing in Brazil
Water for People
4041
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
Hill’s mission is to help enrich and 
lengthen the special relationship between 
people and their pets. Through the Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love program, Colgate partners with animal shelters across the U.S. to discount, training, digital tools and content, as well as shelter visuals. For pet owners, Hill’s provides Science Diet and Ideal Balance adopter kits with coupons and access to a New Pet Parent website. Hill’s believes the combination of loving shelter care and premium nutrition helps make pets healthier and happier, so they’re ready to go home. Whether a shelter has 100 or 10,000 adoptions a year, the goal is to ensure that every pet goes home healthy and happy. That means nourishing every pet that arrives at the shelter with Hill’s nutrition and sending a Science Diet or Ideal Helping Pets 
Find a Home 
Balance adopter kit home with every new 
adoption. Through this partnership with animal shelters, the Company provided pet food with a retail value of more than $3 million in 2017, and helped more than 678,000 dogs and cats find their forever home. 
Hill’s also partners to provide food 
shipments to shelters and veterinary hospitals in the event of an emergency through its Disaster Relief Network, a formalized U.S. emergency network for pets.
In 2017, Hill’s responded to 15 emergencies 
across the U.S., shipping more than 130,000 pounds of pet food to more than 145 unique organizations in communities affected by disaster.
Highlights
• The Hill’s team in The Nether -
lands has supported Dutch shel-ters since 1998. During 2017, we provided 21 partnership shelters across the country with Hill’s pet food and close to 7,000 pets were adopted nationally. One lucky cat that found a forever home was Meddy, who was adopted by her new human companion Leonie. • Throughout 2017, Hill’s Brazil worked in partnership with four local animal shelters, donating more than 20 tons of food to pets awaiting their forever home. The team also spent time volunteering, including spending time with Clube dos Vira-Latas, a street dog rescue club.• Since 1998, Hill’s Australia has supported national animal charity RSPCA. Along with feeding pets in their care at more than 50 locations, Hill’s supports the Million Paws Walk fundraiser every year. In 2017, with the help of Hill’s, the RSPCA hosted more than 15,000 dogs at the annual walk, raising more than $1.8 million.
42
People Community Giving
2017 Contributions 
$32.7 million*Colgate contributes both funding and products to a wide range of charities and community organizations 
around the world. Colgate also partners with retailers, consumers, and our employees to raise funds. Driven by Colgate’s core value of Caring and supported by the involvement of Colgate People, our Global Giving Program makes a difference in the communities we serve by supporting organizations that address health and educational disparities.
• Colgate is investing in a future that the next generation can smile about by partnering with Black Girls CODE for this year’s “CODE a Brighter Future” hackathon series, inspiring the next generation of young women learn more about technology. 
• Community has always been a top priority at Colgate. One of our proudest initiatives is Estrellas Colgate in Mexico, a non-profit fully funded by Colgate since 1980 to help low-income children foster good habits and gain education through athletic and health programs. 
• Colgate is proud to partner with the YMCA to help Black and Hispanic teens from underserved communities and schools have access to quality educational programs like Y Scholars. We are a proud sponsor of the Hispanic Achiever Awards and College Scholarships.• To promote the importance of education among Latinos and help them on the path to higher education, Colgate in partnership with the Hispanic Heritage Foundation sponsors the Haz la U educational grant program. This program awards 31 educational grants totaling $100,000. This initiative is committed to prepare future generations of Latinos and to give them the tools to become leaders in their communities.
• The Colgate Women’s Games continue to be the largest women’s amateur indoor track and field series in the U.S. For 44 years, this program has helped young girls and women develop a strong sense of personal achievement and self-esteem, value teamwork and discover the importance of education. Open and free to all girls from elementary school through college and beyond, the Colgate Women’s Games has awarded more than $1.2 million in educational grants-in-aid.* Cash and in-kind contributions to charitable 
organizations, including spending for the Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures program in Colgate’s 20 
largest subsidiaries (by oral care sales).
Creating Educational Opportunities
2. Advancing health  
     and well-being 3. Engaging  
     Colgate people Colgate’s giving priorities are: 
1. Creating educational  
    opportunities  43
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
Advancing Health and  
Well-being
• In June 2017, Colgate and the American 
Dental Association announced their continued collaboration in support of Colgate’s annual Oral Health Month program with the “Share More Time, Share More Smiles” campaign to inspire and educate Hispanic families to share more time, moments, and smiles together on social media using #TimeToSmile. Colgate donated $1 for every image or video liked, shared or posted using the hashtag #TimeToSmile to the ADA Foundation’s Give Kids A Smile
® program, which 
provides free oral health care, education, screening, and treatment to underserved children, for a total 
donation of $10,000.
• Colgate launched its new educational 
eBook app, Colgate Adventure Books, featuring beautifully illustrated, interactive oral-health stories for children and families. With animations and sound effects on every page, the Bright Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) eBook app engages children with Dr. Rabbit, Dr. Brushwell, and friends to enhance the oral-health education experience, showing children simple daily steps to keep their teeth and gums healthy. The free educational app was developed with no commercial ads, ensuring a safe learning environment for children between the ages of four and eight years old.
• Colgate’s BSBF Program partners with Kids in Need Foundation to Help Students Smile Brighter for School. Colgate has donated 25,000 toothbrushes and toothpaste tubes to the Kids In Need Foundation, which is encouraging elementary school teachers, educators, parents, and community members across the United States to pledge their commitment to educating children about the importance of oral health. 
Engaging Colgate People
• For years, Colgate People in South Africa have volunteered in the local community during Mandela Day. In 2017, Colgate volunteers joined the Habitat for Humanity SA in building 67 homes for 67 underpriviledged families.
44
Helping in Times of Need
• Tom’s of Maine donates 10 percent 
of its profits each year to nonprofit organizations committed to causes such as human health, animal welfare, education, and environmental sustainability. In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Tom’s of Maine donated 85,000 toiletry items including toothpaste, mouthwash, bar soap, and deodorant. In addition, Tom’s of Maine donated $75,000 toward long-term recovery aid.
• In response to the unprecedented flooding in Texas due to Hurricane Harvey, Colgate donated $200,000 toward relief efforts, including matching individual employee donations to the American Red Cross. Hill’s Pet Nutrition donated 20,000 pounds of pet food to area SPCA shelters and animal hospitals.  
• In the aftershock of recent hurricanes and the earthquake in Mexico, Colgate People everywhere mobilized to assist those affected by these natural disasters. To aid in relief efforts, Colgate has contributed $200,000 to the American Red Cross and other organizations providing direct relief and rebuilding assistance. Colgate also donated personal care products and more than 30,000 pounds of Hill’s pet food.
• Greece has the highest number of refugees in Europe with nearly 200,000 people coming into the country in 2016 and 2017. Colgate’s European Division partnered with local organizations to provide essential everyday products, donating nearly 400,000 oral care and personal care products. Colgate Greece volunteers brought BSBF to refugee and immigrant children attending an intercultural school in Athens to make sure that toothbrushing and oral care remain a priority during this difficult time.• In South Africa, Colgate sponsors the Phelophepa Train, treating nearly 50,000 people in many communities where medical services and infrastructure are unavailable. 
• 502 Colgate employees from four countries, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia, came together at the same time to volunteer in 21 activities, ranging from taking children from low-income families to visit the zoo for the first time, to cooking and serving lunch to the homeless and the needy, to building a doll house for the Casita de Belen Foundation. Many Colgate employees participated in a BSBF program, conducting oral health education and donating school kits to children with limited resources. 
• CP volunteers in Argentina, hiked in the San Luis Mountains to clean debris from around a famous waterfall, “El Salto de la Moneda. ”People
45
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Colgate Global BrandsOur PerformancePerformance
Personal Care
19% of Net Sales
Pet NutritionOral Care
Home Care
15% of Net Sales48% of Net Sales
18% of Net Sales
45 COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201746
Performance
Colgate delights shoppers with innovative products that meet their needs, exceed their expectations 
and add value to their lives. Our nine consumer innovation centers rely on local insights from around the world to launch more than 600 new products and product updates every year. 
To ensure that the products we develop are placed in stores, Colgate is committed to listening and 
engaging with existing and potential consumers around the world. To ensure that our commercial teams stay close to the users of our products, we undertake “Getting Out of the Office” programs that help build our deep understanding of local tastes and habits across categories. Recent projects have included in-home immersions in Kenya, working with pet shelter volunteers in the U.S., learning how Brazilians are coping with economic downturn, and understanding how Polish people make brand choices in-store. These activities provide key consumer insights to identify unmet consumer needs and opportunities for existing product performance improvements.
We also listen to consumer feedback on 
our products. Colgate’s Consumer Affairs departments manage consumer relations around the world, covering 95 percent of Colgate’s business. This team strives to provide the very best consumer care to make it easy for people to reach the Company, have their messages heard and problems solved, and give them confidence in having an advocate for their experience within the Company.
Each year, we work to increase our consumer 
support coverage and accessibility, via new or centralized contact centers, where we optimize the latest consumer service tools and training so every person contacting us has the very best individualized experience. In many parts of the world, people can now engage with us via traditional methods, such as phone or email, or via newer, real-time methods such as social media and chat, which appeal to broader audiences and are mobile-friendly. Most recently, our team began seeking out and responding to people who leave ratings and reviews on e-commerce sites, an important new source of feedback about our products. In some locations, we are experimenting with artificial intelligence, using technology to give on-the-spot help to people on weekends and in the evenings. 
In addition, we regularly monitor key 
performance indicators for service in several regions around the world. In 2017, 90 percent of consumers reported being “satisfied” or “very satisfied” with our service.
Stronger consumer engagement begins 
with better insights. Deeper and more 
meaningful consumer insights strengthen 
product development, packaging, and the communications we deliver through our 
integrated marketing campaigns.
Consumer-Driven Innovation47
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Using Technology To Bring 
Professional Oral Care Advice  
To Consumers In India
• Most people living in rural India have 
never visited a dentist and have no access to reliable dental advice. As part of our efforts to Keep India Smiling, Colgate is using mobile technology to provide consumers in rural India with real-time access to free professional oral care advice. Available on-demand from every mobile phone at no cost, consumers dial the number provided, hang up, and receive an instant call back from Colgate’s Pocket Dentist automated response system. Based on a strong consumer response, the program is being expanded nationally in 2018.
Partnering For  
Innovation In China 
• Colgate Dare to Love toothpaste, 
launched around “Love Teeth Day, ” a national oral health awareness campaign in China, was developed in collaboration with one of our Chinese e-commerce partners. It went from concept to launch in just five months, and was the top-selling item in the Colgate flagship store on this e-tailer’s site throughout the campaign. 
Driving Growth  
In Pet Nutrition
• Hill’s Science Diet Youthful Vitality, which 
helps fight effects of aging in cats and dogs ages seven and older, is adding incremental market share in the U.S. and is now rolling out globally. As part of its powerful ad campaign, Hill’s Science Diet Youthful Vitality worked with Animal Planet on the Web series “Mission Adoptable” to tell heartwarming stories about older cats and dogs to encourage adoption in this age group.
Highlights
48
Product Sustainability at Colgate
Product sustainability at Colgate means 
a continued commitment to safe, sustainable, high-quality products that consumers can trust. As part of our 2020 Sustainability Strategy, we are committed to increasing the sustainability profile in all new products. Consumers increasingly purchase products that both meet their needs and have a social impact and reduced environmental footprint. At Colgate, we are working to meet that expectation by:
Driving Sustainability Through
Our Product Categories
We continue to implement product 
category sustainability strategies that align with and support our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy.
Colgate is embedding sustainability across our Oral Care category. Our products and oral health education programs improve oral health around the world and help reduce cavities, one of the most chronic global diseases. We also promote water conservation awareness to consumers, encouraging them to turn off the faucet when brushing their teeth. We are improving the ingredient sustainability profile of our products, removing PVC from toothbrush packaging, and reducing the environmental footprint of our oral care factories.
Colgate is also making improvements in our 
Personal Care category, from improving ingredient biodegradability and moving toward more sustainable preservative systems to optimizing packaging size and improving packaging recyclability. We are educating millions of children and their families around the world about the importance of handwashing with soap, and are also working to reduce our carbon and water footprint. Driving Sustainability  
Through Our Categories 
Improving the Product Sustainability Profile of 
Our Products
Teams across the Colgate world collaborate to develop products with improved sustainability profiles. Opportunities to improve product sustainability are considered throughout the product development process by multiple functions (from formulation to packaging). Annually, we apply the criteria in our product sustainable scorecard to the new products we plan to launch.
Delivering Safe and Sustainable Ingredients
Colgate remains committed not only to making safe products, but also to making those products with ingredients and processes that have minimal impact on the world around us.
Providing Access to Affordable Products
We continue to expand access to affordable health and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities.
In our Home Care category, Colgate is increasing the use of recycled and recyclable plastics in our packaging and improving the ingredient sustainability profile of our products, including eliminating formaldehyde donors and reducing volatile organic compounds to improve air quality. We are also helping consumers save energy and water with our cleaning products.
Hill’s Pet Nutrition is working to source its 
ingredients responsibly, reduce its operational footprint, and provide pet food to shelters at a discount to help millions of dogs and cats find their forever homes. Hill’s is also leading the way to Working Towards Zero Waste at Colgate. The first four “Zero Waste to Landfill” factories are Hill’s factories.Performance49
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard 
measures our progress toward our 2020 goal to increase the sustainability profile in all new products. The scorecard rates products with 25 parameters across seven areas: Responsible Sourcing and Raw Materials; Energy and Greenhouse Improving the Product Sustainability 
Profile of Our Products 
Gases; Waste; Water; Ingredient Profile; 
Packaging; and Social Impact. Through cross-functional collaboration across the Colgate world, we continue to make progress and have improved the sustainability profile in 82 percent of new products in 2017.
1
1. The performance results are based on representative products from the product portfolio evaluated against comparable Colgate 
products across seven impact areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative 
and qualitative data.
2017 Product Highlights 
• Colgate Active Salt has an improved 
ingredient sustainability profile with fewer resources required to produce the formula. We added the “Save Water” message to the label to encourage consumers to conserve water when using.
• Ajax Anti-limescale Spray in Europe has an improved ingredient sustainability profile, requires less water, and generates less waste in the manufacturing process.
• Protex body wash was reformulated with ingredients with an improved sustainability profile. Triclocarban was removed and replaced with more natural and sustainable ingredients including tea leaf extract, which has a smaller environmental footprint.• Hill’s successfully updated its packaging specifications for its secondary packaging cases for premade bags. The material increased recycled fiber in the corrugated cases from 30 percent to 74 percent. The update to the packaging specifications resulted in a 147 percent increase in recycled content and improved the accuracy of packing specifications.50
Product Safety and Quality  
We continuously monitor and evaluate the 
safety of our ingredients, and we actively engage with outside experts and resources to understand emerging science and deepen our knowledge. We also comply with all aspects of the European Union’s REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemical substances). To learn more about the science behind our products, please visit Scientific Excellence section of our website, and learn more about our Ingredient Safety Policy and progress updates, please visit 
the Ingredient Safety section.
Product Safety Testing 
Colgate has a longstanding policy to minimize 
and ultimately eliminate animal testing associ-ated with development of oral care, personal care, and home care products. Central to this commitment are our 30-year-long efforts to  
encourage the development of alternatives that are scientifically valid and can be accepted by scientific regulators.
We are a leader in promoting, encouraging, and 
participating in the development, validation, and acceptance of non-animal testing methods worldwide, investing more than $1 million dollars annually on research with non-animal alternatives. Globally, there are circumstances when regulatory agencies require animal testing of oral care, personal care, and home care products. In such limited instances, the tests are conducted at external testing facilities that meet strict government standards and the rigorous requirements that were established by Colgate with input from animal welfare groups. We work closely with worldwide regulatory agencies to examine how non-animal tests can be incorporated into their safety requirements for consumer products. Specifically, we support Delivering Safe and  
Sustainable Ingredients 
the European Partnership for Alternative 
to Animals, the Johns Hopkins Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing, and the Institute for In Vitro Science. Colgate actively shares its work to reduce animal use and develop alternatives so that this information can help others minimize animal use.
Hill’s uses only non-invasive, humane research 
methods to develop superior nutritional technology so that dogs and cats live longer, healthier lives. Importantly, Hill’s believes that 
any procedure that causes pain to people also 
causes pain to animals and therefore, is not permitted. Hill’s does not create or simulate disease conditions in animals and does not conduct a study where euthanasia is the end point. Hill’s breakthroughs in pet nutrition are unmatched in the pet food industry, and it has built its business and reputation on always practicing the highest ethical standards. Hill’s publishes its animal welfare policy on its website, which governs all studies they conduct or support.
Currently, more than 99 percent of internal 
requests for safety assessments of Colgate’s products are addressed by using available databases and non-animal alternatives. We look forward to the day when all necessary safety studies for oral care, personal care, and home care products can be performed without the use of animals. We will continue our unwavering efforts toward the development, validation, and scientific and regulatory acceptance of alternative non-animal methods of product safety research, while remaining steadfast in our commitment to the highest standards of product safety for our consumers. For more information on our Product Safety Research Policy and other policies, visit our  
website.
 Performance51
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Ingredient Transparency
We recognize consumers want to know more 
about the ingredients in the products they use. We disclose the ingredients in oral care, personal care, and home care products in the U.S. and Canada according to the Consumer Product Ingredient Communication Initiative (CPICI) of the American Cleaning Institute, the Consumer Specialty Products Association, and the Canadian Consumer Specialty Products Association.
Colgate is an active participant in SmartLabel™, 
a mobile app co-created by the Grocery Manufacturers Association and the Food Marketing Institute in conjunction with manufacturers and retailers. This digital platform was developed to meet consumers’ desire to know what is in the products they purchase and use. SmartLabel™ provides a wide range of product details that cannot fit on a package label. It goes beyond the label to tell consumers not just what ingredients are included in their products; it explains what those ingredients are, why they are in the product, and what they do. SmartLabel™ was designed to match how people use information and technology today. Thus, consumers can access SmartLabel™ at home, on-the-go while creating a shopping list on their phone, and while making their way through a store.
Colgate’s packaging organization regularly evaluates materials and processes that can improve the sustainability profile of our packages. Colgate’s packaging sustainability strategy centers around the following actions:
Delivering More  
Sustainable Packaging
• Assessing the human health and 
environmental impact of our packaging 
• Striving to design products for reuse, recyclability, and materials reduction while ensuring product integrity
• Working to minimize the volume and weight of our packaging and using the minimum amount of packaging required to label and protect our products
• Using recycled content and evaluating new materials and sources
We are also committed to helping create the closed loop economy and recognize that consumers increasingly prefer recyclable packaging. Information on our work to exit PVC, improve recyclability, increase recycled content, and minimize weight and volume of packaging follows.• Increasing the recyclability and convenience of our packaging through design choices and innovation
• Expanding refill package systems in product categories where feasible
• Coding our packaging with recycling symbols where appropriate
•  Supporting efforts to educate consumers
• Supporting innovative efforts to improve local recycling systems
52
EXIT PVC 
We are committed to exiting PVC by 2020. The most significant use of PVC in our portfolio is the toothbrush blister package. To meet this challenge, we are making changes to our finishing machines and investing more than $13 million annually in alternative raw materials. Currently, we have eliminated PVC in 98 percent of our packaging by weight. In addition, we have developed plans to exit remaining uses of PVC such as shrink sleeves, labels, and pouch structures.
EXAMPLES
EXAMPLESOur Asia-Pacific team replaced PVC shrink sleeves on two types of Glo bottles, moving us toward our goal of 0 percent PVC. They also converted from HDPE to PET , the most widely recycled resin.
In Guatemala, we made the plastic on our Suavitel 80 ml sachets thinner, saving 49 tons of plastic annually and reducing supply chain complexity. Colgate Palmolive launched a new PET bottle for Palmolive Caprice Naturals Shampoo 760 ml in Latin America to replace the previous PVC bottle with handle.
In Europe, Colgate launched a clear 300 ml PET bottle for Palmolive liquid hand soap, replacing the previous white opaque bottle.IMPROVE RECYCLABILITYColgate is committed to improving the recyclability of our personal care, home care, and pet nutrition packaging. We are also focused on achieving breakthrough innovation in oral care packaging. As of year-end 2017, approximately 80 percent of our packaging by weight is considered recyclable.
Related projects are underway in each category that will complete implementation in 
2019 and 2020. For example, we are transitioning from opaque to clear PET bottles, as well as improving recyclability of dispensing systems.
We are rolling out the implementation of shrink sleeves with perforated tear tabs, and 
we direct consumers to remove the sleeve at end of use to improve bottle recycling. In addition, we are evaluating new shrink sleeve technology and pressure-sensitive label systems that are preferred by recycling facilities.
We have included perforations in 
the sleeves used for Palmolive 250 and 500ml, Soupline 1.2L and Soflan Fabric Softener 650ml in Europe. Perforations allow the consumer to remove the sleeve from the bottle, making it more likely to be recycled.Performance53
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017EXAMPLES Colgate China downsized the jumbo and 
family size toothpaste cartons, saving more than 72 tons of fiber and 3 tons of film plastic. 
Tom’s of Maine redesigned the bar soap 
wrapper to minimize weight and volume. We were able to reduce more than half the packaging by weight for primary and secondary packaging and add 30 percent more bars per transport pallet, which reduces the carbon footprint due to logistics transport.
MINIMIZE WEIGHT AND VOLUME
As part of our Funding the Growth initiatives, Colgate has long been minimizing the volume and weight of our packaging. We strive to use the minimum amount of packaging required to label and protect our products.
We recognize the importance of reducing waste at every stage 
of the product life-cycle including at the end-of-use of our products and packaging. See page 82 for more information on our programs to collect packaging waste and our commitment to work with stakeholders to drive continuous improvement in local recycling systems.EXAMPLES Hill’s partnered with Amazon to improve the shipping carton of pet food bags sold online. The new carton is certified by Amazon as Frustration Free Packaging; it precisely fits the size and shape of the bag and is made of recycled material. It also includes Hill’s messaging and has handles to make it easier to manage from the front door to the kitchen.INCREASE RECYCLED CONTENTColgate’s 2020 goal is to increase recycled content in our packaging to 50 percent. As of year-end 2017, approximately 42 percent of our packaging materials are from post-consumer recycled sources.
54
Spotlight
In 2017, Colgate joined the 
How2Recycle Label Program, with the intent of reducing confusion about how to recycle packaging with the assistance of standardized consumer labeling. Colgate is a member of the Sustainable Packaging Coalition, which administers the How2Recycle program. As a member, Colgate was involved in the development of the program which has grown exponentially over the past few years, and is excited to be a part of this growing movement. Recycling is an initiative which supports our corporate commitments to sustainability. 
In 2018, Colgate will introduce 
the How2Recycle
® label to our 
consumers on products sold in stores across the U.S. Colgate will be rolling out the label first on Suavitel products, Murphy Oil Soap products, and Softsoap Earth Blends hand soap and body wash.
Member of
Performance55
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Product sustainability at Colgate also means 
a commitment to providing affordable product options in our portfolio. We have established a 2020 goal to expand access to affordable health and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities.
We make products more affordable while 
maintaining quality with smaller sizes, refill packages, and value options. We distribute our products broadly, more consumers have access to Colgate products. Offerings are customized to best reach consumers within their socioeconomic level, available household income and specific consumer needs. We are finding ways to offer the benefits of more premium products at affordable price points.
Globally, we strategically balance Colgate’s 
portfolio between base and premium tiers as appropriate for the region. This starts with consumer panels and research that gives us an in-depth understanding of consumers, 
We partner with hundreds of thousands of retail stores to sell Colgate products around the world. Treating all retail customers with fairness and integrity is a priority. We engage our customers worldwide by sharing unique shopper insights, providing innovative in-store marketing communications and merchandising techniques, and developing and executing joint business planning initiatives. These activities ensure the right product assortment at each location and help to make shopping a consumer- friendly, enjoyable experience that drives increased sales for both Colgate and the retailer.Providing Access to Affordable Products 
Partnering with Customers
their needs, and how to best communicate 
to them. Many people around the world 
do not have access to basic dental care and education. As a leading provider of oral care products, Colgate has the unique ability to address this major social issue and to improve the oral health of families around the world. In Africa, toothpaste use as part of a healthy oral care habit remains a challenge. High costs and rural distribution remain important hurdles to address. Colgate introduced a small and affordable toothpaste sachet across many key markets in Sub-Saharan Africa to assist in building a vital oral health care habit in these rural areas. 
To ensure continued success, we track 
retailer satisfaction in 20 of Colgate’s largest subsidiaries every two years. The Company participates in a widely used industry standard syndicated survey run by the Advantage Group. The objective is to measure our customer engagement with the goal of strengthening our performance across key markets, building robust action plans based on the survey feedback.
Colgate also partners with key customers 
to advance our mutual sustainability goals. We often partner with retailers to engage consumers with programs such as our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures oral health education program, Operation Smile, and Terracycle
®. 56
• Colgate continues to partner with eco-
innovator Terracycle® in six markets, 
including the U.S., Mexico, Brazil, Australia, New Zealand, and China. Terracycle
® recycles and “upcycles” oral 
care packaging collected at schools, stores, and other locations into new and affordable eco-friendly products. Through this partnership, in 2017, more than 36,000 locations engaged in recycling, helping us divert more than 7.6 million pieces of waste from landfills. Participating locations are able to raise funds for schools and charities of their choice as an incentive for recycling. 
• To help consumers “upcycle” Colgate products, in 2017 Colgate and Terracycle
® partnered with ShopRite 
and Meijer stores on a recycled playground giveaway. In-store displays drove awareness for recycling through Terracycle
® and publicized a contest for 
schools to win a playground made from recycled toothbrushes and toothpaste tubes. Tom’s of Maine and Terracycle
® 
also partnered with Hannaford stores in the U.S. to reward a school with a garden made from natural care waste collected by the Tom’s of Maine Natural Care Recycling Program. • In South Africa, Colgate partnered with Makro to celebrate World Water Day and raise awareness about water conservation. A three-month in-store campaign conducted nationally with the theme, “Make Every Drop Count, ” helped us bring water to those in need. Each purchase of a Colgate product in Massmart triggered a donation by Colgate of 100 water harvesting tanks to communities in need throughout 2017. 
• Colgate was recognized with a Silver Effie Award for Sustainability-Focused Shopper Marketing Program. Colgate’s “Turn Off the Tap” campaign, which ran at Safeway supermarkets in Northern California, sought to encourage consumers to conserve water at home.
• Our global Save Water initiative encourages people to make a difference by simply turning off the faucet while they brush their teeth. In the U.S., we partnered with Walmart to feature special in-store displays running Colgate’s award-winning “Turn Off the Tap” video together with Save Water digital communications on the Walmart website. Our goal is to promote water conservation awareness to all our global consumers by 2020. 
• Our partnership with swimming champion Michael Phelps, our Global Ambassador, expands to 52 countries in 2018 as he helps us share the “Turn off the Tap while brushing” message. Michael will also join water advocate and ultra-runner Mina Guli on one of her #RunningDry marathons. Mina is running 100 marathons in 100 days across six continents to spread awareness of water scarcity. Colgate is a sponsor in North America.
• Colgate has also launched an Amazon Alexa skill to remind people to save water while brushing their teeth. Amazon Alexa users say “Alexa, open Save Water” to begin a dialogue where they receive water conservation facts or tips. This skill will be available on Google Home devices  
in 2018.Highlights
 Performance57
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
Operating in today’s world requires an enhanced focus 
on conserving Earth’s finite resources, addressing climate change and maintaining the well-being of our planet for generations to come. Our planet-related commitments cover the environmental issues key to Colgate, our energy use, carbon emissions, water use, and waste generation as well as our commitment to no deforestation. We are also committed to sustainably built and run facilities. We are making progress in each of our planet goals and working with partners and consumers to make these efforts a priority.Supporting  
Our PlanetPlanet
57 COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 201758
Planet
Our Commitment 
to No Deforestation
Deforestation is one of Colgate’s key sustainability 
issues. It is critical from a business, social, environmental, and reputational risk standpoint. Our policies and commitments help us manage the deforestation risks in our supply chain for pulp and paper, palm oil and derivatives, soy and soy oil, and beef tallow. In line with Colgate’s values, we are committed to protecting the global environment, enhancing the communities where people live and operating in compliance with government laws and regulations. As part of Colgate’s 2020 sustainability strategy, which is focused on People, Performance and Planet, we are committed to responsibly sourcing forest commodities to reach zero net deforestation by 2020. Because we share a vision with our key stakeholders for a future without deforestation, we will remain transparent with our employees, shareholders, suppliers and NGOs about our commitments, challenges and progress. 
Much of Colgate’s packaging material utilizes wood-
derived or paper-based products. Approximately 90 percent of our pulp and paper is certified or is in the process of being certified as sourced from responsibly managed forests. Colgate has made significant progress in policy development on commodity sourcing and deforestation over the past three years. Contributing to this progress is the company’s active membership in the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), a large network of retailers, manufacturers and service providers dedicated to a vision of “Better lives through better business. ” Ian Cook, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Colgate, currently serves on the CGF Board of Directors. Colgate continues its commitment to No Deforestation by 2020 for pulp and paper, palm oil and derivatives, soy and soy oil, and beef tallow. An effective, implementable deforestation program is critical so we can manage the impact activities have on ecosystems and habitats, meeting stakeholders’ expectations, protecting our reputation, as well as complying with regulations.2017 Colgate’s 
Deforestation 
Milestones 
Developed a commodity-specific 
policy on responsible and 
sustainable sourcing of palm oil 
in 2016. Since then, we have taken action to responsibly source palm oil in the following ways: 
• Requested information on traceability to the mill and 
plantation level from 100 percent 
of Colgate’s direct suppliers of palm oil and palm kernel oil (PKO)
• Engaged direct suppliers of palm oil and PKO to drive policy 
implementation, encourage 
increased transparency, and to understand their plans for transformation of their supply 
chain
• Requested information on palm 
oil derivatives traceability work 
to the mill level. The Forest 
Trust (TFT) has determined key supply chain points to act as milestones in the work to 
achieve full traceability upstream. 
These supply chain points are as follows: first importer, origin refiner and mills
• Incorporated sustainability considerations into the supplier 
selection process
• Commitment to procure 100 
percent certified palm oil and 
PKO
• Included palm oil suppliers in 
Colgate-Palmolive Supplier 
Responsible Sourcing Assessment 
Program59
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Pulp and Paper 
Pulp and Paper Approach
Colgate is committed to sourcing paper 
and packaging from recycled sources and responsibly managed forests that do not contribute to deforestation. 
As part of our responsible sourcing strategy, 
in 2017 Colgate established a partnership with Rainforest Alliance, an international non-profit organization, to develop a commodity-specific policy for sustainable sourcing of pulp and paper. We are working to leverage our longstanding strategy to increase volumes of certified or recycled pulp and paper-based materials each year, setting a goal to source 100 percent by the end of 2020. Our partnership with Rainforest Alliance helps us engage with our suppliers to increase the usage of certified materials, giving preference for verification of pulp and paper supply to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification standards. Rainforest Alliance supports mapping our supply chain to identify hot spot areas, which present the highest risk to our business, the environment or the local community, by conducting risk assessments of products or ingredients based on country of origin. We will partner with our suppliers to build a low-risk global supply chain that meets the following criteria for pulp and paper: 
• No illegally harvested wood
• No exploitation of people or local communities
• No deforestation of High Conservation Value (HCV) areas
• No sourcing wood from forests that were converted to plantations or non-forest use after December 31, 2010
In addition, we have taken additional steps to ensure compliance with the U.S. Lacey Act, requiring all product and disposable packaging to be composed of legally sourced wood or other plant-based material.
Pulp and Paper Progress
Our partnership with Rainforest Alliance will support the execution of our responsible sourcing strategy for pulp and paper and drive transformation in our supply chain.
As part of the work plan with Rainforest 
Alliance, Colgate will focus first on the following pulp and paper based materials:
• Paper-based cartons
• Corrugated materials for shipping
• Paper-based labels
• Corrugated materials for displays
• Dryer sheet products and cleaning wipes1Key elements of our approach to No Deforestation and successes 
to-date are as follows. 60
Due to the complexity in the pulp and 
paper portfolio, Colgate will prioritize policy implementation with the suppliers of these products representing 80 percent of the spend, with a long-term goal of reaching 100 percent of spend.
As the next step on our journey toward 
responsible and sustainable sourcing of pulp and paper, and with the support of Rainforest Alliance, we are currently working on the following actions: 
• Develop and issue a commodity specific policy for pulp and paper.
• Map pulp and paper supply chain to country of origin to identify any controversial sources and drive actions toward policy conformance.
• Conduct risk assessment analysis to determine area of focus and develop a roadmap for policy implementation. 
Colgate has specific commitments to source palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm derivatives that are responsibly produced and that can be traced from plantation to product. As we strive for zero deforestation in our palm oil operations and activities, we will partner with stakeholders and our suppliers to build a transparent global supply chain that meets the following criteria:
• No deforestation of High Carbon Stock (HCS) forest
• No deforestation of High Conservation Value (HCV) areas
• No use of fire for land clearance
• No new development on peat lands, regardless of depth
• Reduction of greenhouse gas Emissions
• No exploitation of people or local communities2• Increase awareness of policy commitments by conducting supplier webinars.
• Purchase increasing volumes of certified or recycled pulp- and paper-based materials each year with a goal to source 100 percent by the end of 2020, using the Forest Stewardship Council and other respected certification schemes as geography and availability necessitate. 
• Report and communicate performance and progress against policy.
We have also set packaging targets for 2020, including increasing the recycled content of our packaging to 50 percent. Currently, approximately 41 percent of Colgate’s paper and board packaging materials by weight globally come from recycled sources. Colgate will continue our long-standing strategy to increase the use of recycled materials as well as our efforts to optimize the use of other packaging materials. 
Palm Oil, Palm Kernel Oil  
and Derivatives  
 
Palm Oil, Palm Kernel Oil  
and Derivatives Approach
Palm oil is the most widely produced vegetable oil in the world and continues to grow in its use, replacing other vegetables oils. More than 85 percent of the world’s palm oil comes from Indonesia and Malaysia, where land is sometimes converted from forest to palm plantations, resulting in greenhouse gas emissions, impacts on biodiversity, and social issues linked to deforestation. Planet61
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Palm Oil and Palm Kernel Oil Traceability 
For the second half of 2017, Colgate global palm oil/
palm kernel oil traceability to the mill was as follows:
Colgate Global Traceability to the Mill
  Palm  
Geography  P alm Oil  K ernel Oil
U.S.  —  98%
Latin America  99%  97%
Thailand  97%  70%
Europe, Middle East and Africa  100%  88%
Weighted Total  98%  9 1%
The percentages in the table reflect the percentage of palm oil and palm kernel oil 
for each purchasing market that can be traced back to the origin mill. 
Overall, we can identify the mill sources for 98 percent 
of our palm oil supply by volume and 91 percent of Colgate’s palm kernel oil supply. Identifying the mill sources for our palm supply enables us to prioritize upstream suppliers for engagement based on associated risk. It also allows us to seek further information and respond if stakeholder concerns arise about our supply chain and is a critical step toward our goal of achieving full traceability to the plantation/source.
We continue to maintain complete traceability to the 
mill, and we request updated traceability information from our palm oil and palm kernel oil suppliers on a biannual basis to maintain visibility into our supply chains. 
Palm Oil Derivatives Traceability  
Colgate’s No Deforestation commitment includes the source of the palm derivatives that Colgate purchases and uses in its products. Palm derivative supply chains are multi-tiered and complex, so achieving traceability in the derivatives supply chain comes with challenges. The Forest Trust supports Colgate on this journey and helps the Company trace back to the mill level, following TFT methodology. 
Many of Colgate’s suppliers act as first importers 
themselves, and so the current focus is on identifying the origin refiners in Colgate’s supply. The origin refiners will have visibility into the mills in Colgate’s supply base, and will be a crucial leverage point to engage their supply bases on transformation.With The Forest Trust’s risk assessment analysis and collaboration, Colgate will be able to make informed decisions about which producing suppliers to support in their transformation to meet our standards, and where to focus efforts to contribute to supplier assessments and training to have a positive, tangible impact on the practices on the ground within Colgate’s supply chain. Additionally, Colgate has been working with NGOs and other stakeholders to increase our transparency and traceability of palm mills in our supply chain. We now disclose the mills to which our production traces back in three out of four of our primary suppliers and will continue to increase this disclosure as we get more information. See List-of-Mills for more detail. 
Palm Oil, Palm Kernel Oil  
and Derivatives Progress
Colgate uses palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm oil derivatives in some of our soap products, toothpastes, antiperspirants, deodorants, and household cleaners. 
Our palm oil responsible sourcing policy, issued 
in July 2016, addresses the key requirements for our suppliers to build global supply chains that meet Colgate’s palm oil policy criteria. Colgate continues working in partnership with The Forest Trust to move the palm oil responsible sourcing strategy to the next level by executing transformation projects and engage with stakeholders from government, civil society, and palm oil producers.
Palm Oil, Palm Kernel Oil and  
Derivatives Traceability  
Having continued visibility to palm oil mills is critical for Colgate to support on-the-ground supplier transformation work, assess risk in the supply chain, and evaluate the progress of our suppliers in achieving compliance with Colgate’s Responsible and Sustainable Sourcing policy.  62
We are currently sourcing palm oil and palm 
kernel oils certified by Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and Rainforest Alliance. We will continue to increase the percentage of palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm oil derivatives that are physically certified. 
Policy Implementation 
Encouraging transparency and traceability is only one aspect of Colgate’s work to drive change upstream. Equally important is our work to understand our suppliers’ plans and existing activities geared toward transformation and bringing their supply base into compliance with Colgate’s responsible and sustainable sourcing policy.
Colgate’s policy implementation plan activity 
includes understanding suppliers’ progress and actions toward meeting Colgate’s responsible and sustainable palm oil sourcing policy. We are focused on the development of suppliers’ own policies and commitments, traceability status, grievance process, transparency, and verification activities. The approach measures the supplier’s performance on achieving its goals to close the gaps identified and promotes a better understanding of the challenges each supplier has, as well as identifying opportunities for improvements. 
Colgate’s supplier engagement has demonstrated 
that our suppliers are currently at different levels of preparedness to meet Colgate’s policy requirements. Many of Colgate’s suppliers have policies that match Colgate’s policy and are reporting transparently about their progress toward policy implementation on dashboards or through regular reports. 
Colgate will continue to engage our suppliers 
to ensure we make adequate progress toward full policy implementation. The Forest Trust will also continue to support Colgate’s development with strategies to meet our palm oil sourcing requirements.Colgate has currently achieved 57 percent traceability origin refiner, and 59 percent to the mill level for our derivatives portion. We will continue to work with our derivatives supplier to increase the traceability percentages for this portion of its supply.
Colgate 2017 traceability for palm derivatives is as 
follows: 
Colgate Global Palm Oil Derivatives 
Traceability to the Mill
 First  Fir st  
 Impor ter  R efiner  Mill    
 2017  2017  2017
Colgate Derivatives Volume  
    (focus on 80% of palm  62%  57%  59%  
    derivatives total volume)    
We have also begun to evaluate our derivatives 
suppliers’ responsible sourcing policies. Colgate will work with our suppliers to ensure that they have developed responsible sourcing policies and plans that align with Colgate’s own policy, or will demonstrate to Colgate how they will work to meet our policy expectations. Through this work, Colgate will be an important catalyst to increase the transparency of supplier companies in the oleochemical industry.
Certification 
As a step in the transformation journey toward responsibly sourced palm oils, Colgate is procuring certified oils as detailed below. 
2017 Total Company Weighted Average 
Certified Oil Usage
 Palm Oil %  P alm Oil %
 P alm Kernel Oil  Deri vatives  T otal
Certified Oils (% by weight)  84%  5%
Book and Claim Certificate 
    (% by weight)  1 6%  35%
Total Coverage  100%  40%  70%Planet63
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20173Transformation  
With risk assessment analysis and policy 
implementation activities, Colgate makes informed decisions about which producing suppliers and regions to support in transformation. This direct transformation work is supported by ongoing monitoring and progress management of Colgate suppliers’ own transformation efforts.
The Forest Trust and Colgate have agreed on 
transformation activities that Colgate can best support, based on Colgate’s palm oil supply network, identified hot spots and risks, and existing TFT transformation work. During the current transformation work plan, we will have an impact on our supply through tackling environmental and social issues at scale in Indonesia through the on-going support of TFT’s multi-stakeholder, multi-commodity Priority Areas for Transformation (APT) initiative and mill visits. In Thailand, TFT supported several Thai-language workshops and training sessions on the concept of responsible palm oil sourcing and practices for Colgate suppliers. 
We are also partnering with our key strategic 
suppliers to drive changes on the ground and transform practices. In collaboration with Wilmar, Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) and several palm oil buyers, we joined the collective action to improve working conditions and livelihoods of workers across the wider palm oil supply chain in Indonesia. This transformation project included a series of workshops to heighten awareness on wages, employment contract status and grievance mechanisms in Indonesia. 
We acknowledge the role played by NGOs in 
bringing to light the unacceptable labor practices of one of our palm suppliers and the intensified efforts we are making to support transformation efforts on the ground on our own and as part of industry consortiums. We do not use forced labor within our own operations, and we will strive to eradicate forced labor from our value chains. Colgate believes that every worker should have freedom of movement, no worker should pay for a job and no worker should be indebted or coerced to work. Moreover, it is Colgate’s policy not to work with any supplier or contractor known to operate with forced labor. In line with the CGF recently announced Social Resolution on Forced Labor, Colgate joins CGF in acknowledging the broad societal problem of modern slavery and commitment to eradicate forced labor from supply/value chains.
In addition, we continue working with our 
suppliers to support smallholders, independent farmers holding relatively small plots of land. In Thailand, we are working with our strategic supplier Morakot Industries Public Company Limited, a subsidiary of Sime Darby, supporting smallholders in the region to pursue the RSPO certification. The project includes conducting roadshows and awareness to promote the usage of certified material, design the certification program and the internal control system to meet RSPO principles and criteria. Colgate continues to work with these partners to identify and assess additional opportunities to drive transformation of practices on the ground.
Tallow
Tallow, a cattle byproduct, is a key ingredient in bar soap production. Colgate sources tallow from suppliers in North America, Latin America and Europe. In Brazil, there are concerns that rising demand for beef as a food source is prompting farmers to clear parts of the Amazon rainforest for cattle ranching.
As a result, we mainly focus on the tallow sourced 
from Brazil, and work with our Brazilian suppliers to transform practices in our tallow supply chain. We require our suppliers in Brazil to meet the following criteria: 64
• Certify that suppliers follow 
environmental and social requirements set forth by the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources. 
• Confirm that their operations are conducted in conformance with the Minimum Criteria for Industrial Scale Cattle Operations in the Brazilian Amazon Biome, which aims to stop deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon. 
 
Moving forward, we will:
• Work with our suppliers to support the Cerrado Manifesto to halt deforestation and native vegetation loss in the Cerrado biome, an ecologically important and diverse area in central Brazil. We recognize the extent and pace of native vegetation loss resulting from cattle expansion in the Cerrado area and the environmental and social effects of this expansion. 
• Continue collaborating with industry and stakeholder groups such as the Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef to work toward zero deforestation in this area.
• Work with our suppliers on verification by using satellite systems to proactively address issues linked to deforestation and assure the material is sourced responsibly.Soy
Colgate uses soy and soy oil as ingredients in certain products. Colgate currently sources these materials from the United States and South America. The U.S., Brazil, and Argentina account for more than 70 percent of the global soy supply. In Brazil, soy production has been linked to deforestation of highly biodiverse forest regions, and its cultivation has contributed significantly to clearance of the Amazon forest, the Cerrado, the Atlantic Forest, the Gran Chaco, and the Chiquitano. 
We are committed to using responsibly and 
sustainably sourced soy products from South America, which is considered the highest risk area for soy products. We will procure soy products that are responsibly and sustainably sourced and are certified by credible certification schemes, including Roundtable for Responsible Soy, Proterra or equivalent organizations to verify that the soy Colgate sources poses a low risk of contributing to deforestation. 
For material procured in Brazil, our primary 
source, we use soy and soy oil suppliers that are in compliance with the Brazil Forest Code, including registration in the Rural Environmental Registry. 
Moving forward, we will:
• Continue mapping our soy usage and geography 
of supply.
• Continue to support efforts such as the Cerrado Manifesto to minimize deforestation from soy expansion in Brazil and increase transparency in the soy sector.
• Work with our first-tier suppliers to continue sourcing certified soy and deforestation-free soy or soy oil for our requirements.4Planet65
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Environmental Management
Our Climate Commitment
Approach  
COLGATE’S CLIMATE STRATEGY
Energy
Management
and InvestmentClimate
ResilienceLow-
Carbon
EnergyCollaboration
and
DisclosureLow-Carbon
Products and
Supply Chains
   
 Science-Based GoalsIt is Colgate’s worldwide policy to manufacture and 
market our products and operate our facilities so 
that we conform to, and often exceed, applicable environmental rules and regulations. Our environmental standards, including the management systems standard, define environmental performance expectations for Colgate facilities. All Colgate facilities have a fully implemented Environmental Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) Management System covering a wide range of categories, including energy, water, and waste management. Colgate’s manufacturing environmental performance goals are included in our Global Supply Chain annual objectives, which are cascaded to site-level facility managers, energy managers, and EOHS managers.
Colgate sites are expected to self-assess compliance 
with our standards and local regulations every 18 months. Corporate audits are conducted every three to five years, closure progress is reported quarterly, and verification audits are conducted to provide closure assurance.
At Colgate, we understand the potential consequences of climate change, and we are committed to acting responsibly and conscientiously to protect people and the environment wherever we operate. We recognize that businesses and their suppliers, customers, and consumers along with other stakeholders have a vital role to play in addressing the global issue of climate change.
Climate change is one of Colgate’s key sustainability 
issues identified on page 12. It is a key focus for our business from both a reputational and an operational standpoint. Consumers, non-governmental organizations, and other external stakeholders expect companies to do their part to mitigate climate change. Reducing our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions also enables Colgate to mitigate costs. Since 2002, our energy reduction program has helped us avoid more than $510 million in energy costs. Managing the risks associated with climatic events such as storms and droughts is also important to ensure the continuity of our own operations and that of our supply chain. See page 72 for more information on Climate Resilience.
Our approach for climate change management and 
reporting is based on the guidelines of the GHG Protocol, covering about 95 percent of operations and sales where we have financial control.66
Progress
2020 TARGET  GOAL  2017 PR OGRESS
Absolute GHG E missions from Mfg. (Scope 1 & 2) vs. 2002*  25%  27.7%
% Purchased  Electricity from Renewable Sources  25%  24.2%
Energy Intensity in Mfg. vs. 2002  33%  30.9%
# US EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge site  Incr ease  68 
recognitions since 2011  
# USGBC LEED certified projects completed  Incr ease  20
GHG Intensity reduction of Outbound Logistics  R educe  10%  
(Scope 3) vs. 2015  
Absolute GHG from Consume rs Saving Water   t o be estimated  
(Scope 3)* from 2016-2022  up t o 5%   in 201 8  
* included in our Science-Based Climate Goal, approved in 2017 by the Science-Based Targets Initiative.Science-Based Goals
We will set science-based climate 
goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Energy Management  
and Investment
We will continue to improve our global energy management system and invest in planet-related improvements via our manufacturing capital program.
Low-Carbon Energy
We will promote use of renewable energy and support development of low-carbon energy supply.Key elements of our Climate Strategy include:
Low-Carbon Products and Supply Chains
We will quantify greenhouse gas emissions throughout our value chain and focus on reducing the most significant emissions. Colgate will ensure responsible sourcing of the forest commodities associated with deforestation.
Climate Resilience
We will integrate climate resiliency into our risk management processes.
Collaboration and Disclosure
We will collaborate with stakeholders to demonstrate business leadership on climate. We are also committed to transparency and will publicly disclose our climate strategies and goals, 
and report on our progress.
In 2017, Colgate began working with Walmart’s Project Gigaton, to support their ambition to work with their suppliers to reduce 1 billion metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) from the global value chain by 2030. Colgate’s CEO announced our climate Science Based Target at the Walmart Sustainability Summit in April 2017. Specifically, Colgate has joined Project Gigaton by committing to GHG goals in six areas: emissions, energy, waste, deforestation, packaging, and product use. Colgate will report against these goals annually.Planet67
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
Colgate-Palmolive Company commits to 
reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions from manufacturing by 25 percent from 2002 to 2020, with a longer term goal of a 50 percent reduction by 2050. As a way to reduce our most significant Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, Colgate also commits to promoting water conservation awareness to 100 percent of our global consumers and reducing emissions associated with consumer behavior by up to 5 percent from 2016 to 2022, and increasing the recycled content of our packaging to 50 percent by 2020.SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS Our climate strategy is anchored in setting and achieving science-based goals to reduce greenhouse gases. 
In 2017, Colgate’s science-
based climate goal for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 was approved by the Science Based Targets initiative.
 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’171000 MT of CO2GLOBAL ABSOLUTE CO2 EMISSIONS(1)
707
698704694
690 689
661
625654
643
631636
627
592
526
511
500540580620660700740
1. The GHG emissions calculations are based on the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol and include impacts from renewable energy purchases.
As part of our strategy to track and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Colgate also tracks 
direct and indirect CO2, or carbon dioxide, emissions as well as direct nitrous oxide, 
sulfur hexafluoride, HFC and PFC emissions. We additionally estimate NOX, or nitric oxide, 
emissions from Colgate’s North American and European car fleets and from the trucks that deliver Hill’s Pet Nutrition products to retail customers in vehicles that are controlled by Colgate. We track VOC data as needed to comply with local regulations.68
• Global Energy Reduction Team
Colgat e’s Global Energy Reduction 
Team leads the technical 
implementation of Colgate’s energy strategy in our manufacturing sites by setting annual objectives and developing tools and programs to help our sites reach their energy reduction targets. This cross-functional global team is comprised of individuals with expertise and passion for reducing Colgate’s energy use and GHG 
emissions.  
For 15 years, the Global Energy Reduction Team has continued to focus on supporting our plants with many tools, activities, and initiatives. For example, in 2017, the team worked on short energy training videos, updating the global lighting survey, energy coordinator on-boarding guidance, and water treatment and cooling tower savings opportunities.Planet
Colgate uses the EPA’s ENERGY STAR Chal-lenge for Industry as our internal energy award program for our global manufacturing sites. The Challenge for Industry rewards sites that achieve a minimum of 10 percent reduction in energy intensity during a five-year period. To date, U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR has issued 68 Chal-lenge for Industry site recognitions to Colgate facilities worldwide. 
Energy Management and Investment
Colgate has a longstanding energy reduction program that has helped us lower greenhouse gas emissions and energy use intensity as well as increase financial savings. Our energy management system is modeled after U.S. EPA’s ENERGY STAR program and is implemented globally. In 2017, Colgate was named a U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the seventh year in a row, recognized specifically for Sustained Excellence. 
Key elements of Colgate’s energy management program include:
• “Top 10” Energy Actions
For the past several years, as a way 
to help our global sites prioritize on the most effective energy reduction activities, we have used our Top 10 Energy Actions program. Implemented over two-year increments, this program tracks progress against our ten best global energy reduction opportunities
.• Energy Treasure Hunt Program
We engage people across Colgate’s operations through participation in the Energy Treasure Hunt program. Over a three-day period, 30 to 50 participants visit all areas of a facility, searching for energy waste and brainstorming opportunities to drive continuous improvement. In 2017, Energy Treasure Hunts were completed at Colgate facilities in the United States, Mexico, and India.
• 5% for the Planet
In 2011, Colgate implemented a capital budgeting expectation aimed at driving investment in environmental sustainability projects across our global manufacturing sites. Our 5% for the Planet program helps ensure that sites identify, fund and implement climate, energy, water, and waste projects that drive both environmental improvement and cost savings. The program sets an annual goal to invest a minimum of five percent of our manufacturing capital expenditure budget on energy reduction, water conservation, and reduction of waste to landfill. Upgrades for environmental compliance and product design are funded separately. A minimum of two percent of the manufacturing capital budget is targeted specifically toward energy reduction projects. Since inception, Colgate has invested more than $200 million in more than 1,100 planet projects, delivering an estimated savings of more than $54 million. 69
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017.30.34.38.42.46.48
 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 ’16 ’17kilowatt hours x 1000 / ton of productGLOBAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER METRIC TON
0.522 0.521
0.491
0.463
0.436
0.4260.421
0.4050.418
0.402 0.397
0.387
0.377
0.3690.363 0.360
Low-Carbon Energy  
As part of our strategy to achieve a 25 
percent absolute reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020, we are working to promote the use of renewable energy and support development of a low-carbon energy supply. 
As a way to further develop our balanced 
approach to renewable energy, in 2017 Colgate worked with Schneider Electric to help create a Colgate Renewable Energy Roadmap. This exercise helped us identify and prioritize renewable energy opportunities at more than 20 facilities around the world. We are currently developing and implementing several renewable energy activities, including installing onsite solar electricity and purchasing renewable energy from our electricity providers.Energy Intensity Goal
Colgate’s 2020 goal is to reduce the energy intensity of manufacturing our products by one-third compared to 2002. As of 2017, our global energy programs have already resulted in the reduction of energy per ton of products by 30.9 percent.
Colgate has been a U.S. EPA Green Power Partner since 2014, supporting the voluntary use of green power to reduce the environmental effects associated with conventional electricity use. In 2017, Colgate purchased Green-e certified wind power renewable energy certificates generated from wind power farms located in Kansas. This green power purchase was recognized by the U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership Leadership Club, achieving a rank of No. 45 in the United States. The purchase of green power is allocated back to our facilities in proportion to their carbon emissions as a way to help assign a cost-of-carbon to its source.70
Sourcing of Materials and Capital Goods
Colgate Operations
Distribution of Products
Consumer Use and Disposal of Products10%
85%2%
3%
* D ata cited excludes Hill’s Pet Nutrition. Colgate Operations include emissions related to factory energy 
and waste, employee business travel, and commuting and leased assets.PlanetImproving Refrigerants
Although Colgate uses only a small quantity of refrigerants in our air conditioning and chilled 
water systems, we continue to take steps to minimize refrigerant losses and transition to lower global warming potential refrigerants over time. In 2016, the Consumer Goods Forum updated its resolution on refrigerants, which calls on Food and Beverage supply chains to phase out hydrofluorocarbons. Although Colgate is not in the Food and Beverage sector, we have proactively aligned our global refrigerant standard to meet the intent of the CGF’s resolution as a way to support these efforts. In addition, we developed an associated e-learning training tool to assist our global facilities in transitioning toward less carbon-intensive refrigerants.  
 
Low-Carbon Products 
and Supply Chain
Each year, Colgate works to assess the carbon consequenc -
es and opportunities across our value chain. We have expand-ed our knowledge into areas beyond our own direct energy (Scope 1 emissions) and indirect electricity (Scope 2 emissions), to include areas such as raw ma-terial procurement, transporta-tion and logistics, business trav -
el, waste, employee commuting, consumer use of products, and product end-of-life.
As illustrated by this graphic, heated 
water has the greatest impact.COLGATE’S CARBON FOOTPRINT ORAL CARE, 
PERSONAL CARE, HOME CARE
Oral Care 5% 
Personal Care  84%
Home Care 11%
Oral Care 32% 
Personal Care  61%
Home Care 7%Carbon
WaterTo reduce GHG emissions associated with our products we are focused on: 
• Raising consumer awareness 
of water conservation • Designing products that allow consumers to use less water or temperate water • Designing packages that  
can be recycledCOLGATE’S CARBON FOOTPRINT*
Low-Carbon Products
The predominance of our GHG emissions is associated with the consumer use of our products. Our category GHG footprint indicates that the impact of brushing, showering, washing hands, and washing dishes differs greatly.71
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Low-Carbon Supply Chain  
We are also focused on GHG emissions in our 
supply chain. To reduce these emissions we are focused on: 
• Supplier engagement 
• Carbon-intensive materials 
• No deforestation 
• Sustainable and efficient logistics
 
Supplier Engagement 
We request that our key Tier I suppliers and suppliers of carbon-intensive materials participate in the CDP Supply Chain Program Climate Disclosure to help us understand and address climate effects and associated risks and opportunities in our upstream supply chain. In 2017, more than 46 percent of our Tier I suppliers responded to the survey, including our largest raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers. We achieved 82 percent supplier participation.
Carbon-Intensive Materials 
We have identified the oral care, personal care, and home care raw and pack materials that have the highest carbon footprint. This information has been shared with our Research & Development and Procurement teams to help them identify and prioritize opportunities through material and supplier choices without negatively affecting consumer experience, quality, or cost.
No Deforestation 
We also recognize that deforestation and forest degradation significantly contribute to the release of greenhouse gases. Our No Deforestation policy commits to sourcing forest commodity materials responsibly and sustainably by 2020. See page 58  
for more details on Colgate’s progress on policy implementation.Sustainable and Efficient Logistics 
Customer Service and Logistics teams at Colgate continue to focus on sustainable and efficient logistics initiatives around the world. Through these efforts, we are reducing costs as well as our carbon footprint, all while improving customer service.
Our sustainable and efficient logistics efforts in 
2017 included initiatives such as: 
• Load Optimization: Through the use of SAP Transportation Management—a tool currently in place in Canada, the United States, Mexico, and Brazil—we are automatically planning shipments to their optimal capacity. This has led to more efficient load planning and a minimization in the quantity of shipments to deliver our products in a timely fashion. In 2018, we will be rolling out this technology to new markets in Latin America and Asia, which will continue to drive freight planning efficiencies. 
• Route Optimization: By analyzing trends in lane-level detail, using internal tools and partnering with third parties, we are identifying transport solutions aimed at reducing transit time, emissions, and costs. 
• Co-Loading Trailers: Colgate is working to minimize the number of trucks on the road by co-loading trailers with other companies. This creative freight load-sharing program enables us to minimize the number of our trucks on the road as well as wasted space in our trailers.
• Improving Vehicle Fuel Efficiency: Our logistics providers are upgrading their fleets to include more aerodynamic and efficient vehicles, resulting in improved miles-per-gallon fuel efficiency.
• Intermodal Shipping: We are using intermodal shipping globally to drive reductions in CO
2 
emissions, diesel consumption, and cost. Hill’s has been a prime example of commitment to this initiative and has reached 100 percent utilization on lanes set up for transport by rail two years in a row. 72
Colgate
Quantifying
Scope 3 
emissions 
and goalsU.S. EPA’s 
Green Power 
Partnership 
National 
Top 100 ListColgate 
was named 
to the 
CDP Climate 
A ListColgate was 
recognized as a 
U.S. EPA ENERGY 
STAR Partner of 
the Year for the 
seventh year in 
early 2017Global LEED 
commitment 
for new 
construction 
of all owned 
facilities
Planet                 Climate Resilience
Colgate has a long-standing 
operations risk management process that includes managing the effects of episodic climatic events such as storms, floods, droughts, and temperature extremes to our facilities and supply chain. Climate risk is defined as part of the operational, regulatory, and reputational and market risks; therefore, Colgate is committed to developing a long-term strategy to mitigate risks from climatic events. As part of this process, we assess potential climate vulnerabilities and risks to ensure our business is able to respond and recover from climatic events. As part of our loss-prevention program, our strategic manufacturing sites are mandated to be highly protected against risks. Third-party assessments on property loss control are conducted annually for all strategic sites. Additionally, we develop and routinely update category contingency product sourcing 
plans. In 2017, Colgate hosted an 
Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) Climate Corps fellow who helped Colgate develop the framework for a “Net Zero” Manufacturing facility. The project’s aim was to determine what types of technologies and activities a facility might need to decrease its dependence on externally supplied energy, water, and waste disposal, thus increasing its resiliency to potential climate impacts. 
Collaboration and Disclosure 
Colgate is committed to transparency and has reported publicly on our carbon and energy reduction performance since 2004. Through these disclosures, we report on financial, regulatory, physical, and reputational risks as well as savings associated with eco-efficiency. In 2017, we continued to collaborate with a variety of stakeholders and engaged with leading organizations to inform our climate strategy and drive continuous improvement on a broader basis.Further details of our risk management strategies related to climate change, water availability and forest commodity risk can be found in our response to CDP’s annual climate change, water and forest surveys.
73
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017COLGATE’S WATER STEWARDSHIP STRATEGY
Water and 
Sanitation 
AccessCollaboration
and
DisclosureDirect
OperationsSupply Chain
ManagementConsumer 
UseEcosystem
ProtectionApproach  Making Every Drop Of Water Count
Water is an ingredient in many Colgate 
products and required in almost every phase of the product lifecycle. Clean water is also vital to the communities we serve, yet in many regions of the world, it is becoming an increasingly scarce resource. Additionally, other related issues such as flooding threaten to have negative consequences on our supply chains and the delivery of raw materials, as well as the finished goods to the customer.
Colgate’s water use footprint consists of 
the water used by our suppliers to produce the raw and packaging materials we purchase, the water used by our facilities to manufacture our products, and the water associated with the consumer use of our products.Water Stewardship is one of our Key Sustainability Issues identified on page 12. These challenges define the boundaries of Colgate’s Water Stewardship Strategy, which covers the following areas where we have the opportunity to manage impact and create a better environment for communities: Direct Operations, Supply Chain, Consumer Use, Water and Sanitation Access, Ecosystem Protection, and Collaboration and Disclosure.
74
Key elements of our Water Stewardship 
Commitment include: 
Direct Operations
We will continue to invest in water conservation and assess water risks associated with our global operations. We will replenish water in highly stressed regions and manage our wastewater appropriately.
Supply Chain Management  
We will increase supplier participation in our water 
stewardship program to identify opportunities and mitigate water risks.
Consumer Use 
We will strive to develop innovative products that enable consumers to use less water while meeting or exceeding their expectations. Colgate will also promote water conservation awareness to our global consumers.Water and Sanitation Access We respect the human right to water, sanitation, and hygiene. We will partner with local and global organizations to offer clean water to underserved areas around the world. We will also provide health and hygiene education in our communities.
Ecosystem Protection
We will strive to protect water-related ecosystems such as forests, wetlands, aquifers, and rivers.
Collaboration and Disclosure
We will partner with stakeholders and our communities to help drive water stewardship programs. We are committed to transparency and will publicly disclose our water stewardship strategies and goals, and report on our progress. 
As a way to inform our water stewardship efforts, 
Colgate engages with leading water experts. This collaboration helps build expertise, align efforts and ensure our water programs meet stakeholder expectations.
Progress
TARGET  GO AL 2017 PR OGRESS     
Reduce our manufacturing water intensity by  50%   43.8%    
50% compared to 2002 
Replenish water withdrawn in highly regions  Impr ove  Using our water replenishment  stressed   
   model, we reached approximately 80%  
   replenishment related to our manufacturing  
   sit es in India
Increase supplier participation in our water  Incr ease  Increased participation to 72%  
stewardship program via CDP Supply Chain
Water survey 
Increase number of people reached since 2013  Incr ease  R eached nearly 373,000 people since 2013  
through Water For People’s Everyone Forever Program   
Increase number of Play Pumps sponsored  Incr ease  Sponsor ed 26 Play  Pumps
 Planet75
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Raw and Packaging Material Supply
Product ManufactureConsumer Use 9%
90%2%
<1%Our Water Footprint  
Colgate’s water use footprint consists of 
the water used by our suppliers to produce the raw and packaging materials we purchase, the water used by our facilities to manufacture our products, and the water associated with the consumer use of our products. 
Oral Care 5% 
Personal Care  84%
Home Care 11%
Oral Care 32% 
Personal Care  61%
Home Care 7%Carbon
WaterAlthough we continue to focus on reducing the 
water used in our own operations, increasingly we are making efforts to help manage water use along each step of our value chain. The results of our ongoing water footprint exercises have helped quantify the opportunities to have a positive water impact beyond our own operations.
Oral and personal care products have the 
largest water footprint.COLGATE’S WATER USE FOOTPRINT 
ORAL CARE, PERSONAL CARE, HOME CARECOLGATE’S WATER USE FOOTPRINT *
* Ex cluding Hill’s Pet Nutrition.76
1.001.251.501.752.00
 ‘02 ’03 ‘04 ’05 ‘06 ’07 ‘08 ’09 ‘10 ’11 ‘12 ’13 ‘14 ’15 ‘16 ’17cubic meters / ton of productGLOBAL WATER USAGE PER TON(1)(2)
(minus water in products)
2.011
1.822
1.666
1.556
1.366
1.324
1.263
1.185
1.134
1.098 1.0951.0721.056 1.046 1.0521.073
Key elements of our program include:
• 5% for the Pla net
Colgate invests in water conservation strategies at our 
global facilities via our manufacturing capital program, 5% for the Planet, and by implementing our Water Stewardship Standard. A minimum of one percent of the manufacturing capital budget is targeted specifically toward water conservation projects. 
• True C ost of Water
Colgate’s True Cost of Water Toolkit, developed with Rutgers University Business School’s Supply Chain Management Program, is a manufacturing-based tool designed to help sites quantify some of the hidden costs 
of water such as pre  tr eatment, pumping, and wastewater 
treatment, thereby increasing both economic and environmental opportunities for reduction. Direct Operations
Colgate has had manufacturing water conservation goals since 2002, and since then we have reduced the water consumed per unit of production in the manufacture of our products by nearly 47 percent.
1 Our new 2020 goal will take us even further. We will reduce 
our manufacturing water intensity by half compared to 2002 and find ways to replenish water withdrawn in highly stressed regions. 
• Wat er Stewardship Standard
Colgate’s global Water Stewardship Standard is intended to help ensure that all of our manufacturing facilities and technology centers develop responsible and appropriate programs to ensure that water-related risks are understood and managed, and that water conservation opportunities are continuously evaluated and implemented in support of Colgate’s environmental and sustainability goals. Water Stewardship Standard expectations vary by level of geographic water stress.1. Excluding water in products.
2. Subject to final verification by third-party auditor.Planet77
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017In 2016, we leveraged this project’s output by 
piloting the overall replenishment approach for our manufacturing sites in India. Through this work, we identified future opportunities to maximize on-site water reduction, increasing rainwater harvesting and continued community water projects. In 2017, we estimated our water replenishment to be approximately 80 percent related to our manufacturing sites located in India.Water Replenishment
In regions with high water stress, we continue to assess water risks and implement appropriate resiliency measures as a way to anticipate and mitigate the effects. In 2015, Colgate hosted a student project in the MIT Sloan School of Management’s Action Learning Sustainability Lab to help develop a framework for creating replenishment criteria, defining geographical boundaries and identifying both environmental and community-related options to meet our commitment to replenish water in highly stressed regions.
Supply Chain Management
We continue to address supply chain water risks in several ways. We are increasing supplier engagement in our water stewardship program through participation in programs such as the CDP Supply Chain Program. Additionally, we are helping our product developers and procurement teams understand and identify our most water-intensive raw and packaging materials.
We requested several of our Tier I suppliers and 
suppliers of water-intensive materials to participate in the CDP Supply Chain Program Water Disclosure to help us understand and address water consequences and associated risks and opportunities in our upstream supply chain. In 2017, 72 percent of our Tier I suppliers responded to the survey, including our largest raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers, significantly higher than the average rate for all member companies.
To help reduce the water associated with the 
production of raw materials, we are working to identify the most water-intensive materials in each of our product categories. With this information, we are able to engage our suppliers to better assess where there are opportunities to reduce the water footprint of our products through feedstock choices and conversion efficiency, particularly in markets under high water stress.In 2016, Colgate worked with a team of students from MIT Sloan School of Management’s Action Learning Sustainability Lab on a project related to assessing and mitigating climate change risks to Colgate’s North America mint supply chain. Based on our findings, in 2017, we further engaged with the Mint Industry Research Council (MIRC) on water efficiency and stewardship opportunities. MIRC invited Colgate to present our Water Stewardship Strategy at their most recent annual meeting to help drive the sustainable use of water throughout the mint grower industry.
Colgate invited the World Resources Institute 
(WRI) to conduct a workshop for our Global Procurement leadership team on using WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool for assessing supplier water risks. This interactive workshop allowed Colgate’s procurement leaders to engage in firsthand discussions and brainstorming on  
how to use Aqueduct as an added risk management tool for agriculturally-sourced materials.
78
Our Products
Colgate understands that the water required to use 
our products represents the largest portion of our overall water footprint. To that end, water scarcity is an opportunity for innovation, and we are working to develop products that allow consumers to use less water. Colgate’s portfolio includes a number of products that allow consumers to use less water.
Ajax Easy-Rinse — 600ml spray bottle
Effective formula easily eliminates dirt without 
creating any foam, requiring less water to wipe 
clean. One wipe is enough to clean and rinse.Planet
Highlights
• In 2017, 11 Asian countries activated the Save 
Water campaign in their market—China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Myanmar, Malaysia, Singapore, Pakistan, Philippines, Thailand, Taiwan, and Vietnam. The campaign communicated that water can easily be wasted every day and offered a simple solution to save water in day-to-day routine. We have also formed a regional partnership with AS Watson to amplify the campaign.
• We’re partnering with customers in Asia to engage shoppers with powerful in-store water-conservation communications. To put importance of water into context, a group of Colgate People in the South Pacific participated in a filmed social experiment designed to highlight the impacts of life with limited access to water.
• In Europe, Colgate People across all markets and hubs were invited to participate in a year-long learning series hosted during key events like World Water Day and Earth Day to help deepen their understanding of water sustainability issues.
• At Hill’s, we have created custom reference guides that are tailored to the plant locations. Our Local Impact Newsletter features an overview of local, regional water concerns, and guidance on how to conserve water at home.
• CP Africa Eurasia partnered with the CP Europe division to raise awareness around water stressed areas. We continue to bring clean water to people through our sponsorship of PlayPumps which provide an opportunity for children to play and help villages obtain clean water from wells. Colgate now sponsors 26 pumps.Water Conservation Awareness
To help consumers conserve water as they 
use our products, Colgate seeks to promote water conservation awareness to all our global consumers.
In 2017, Colgate continued to expand our Save 
Water campaign globally with messaging around World Water Day on March 22 and beyond. Our videos, messages and in-store activations to make every drop of water count went live in more than 70 countries around the world.
All our divisions engaged Colgate People around 
the world regardless of office size or location on World Water Day, inviting them to take a Save Water pledge and spread the word about water conservation. Some locations also held events with guest speakers, or employees volunteered in the local community. The Save Water message already appears on the Company’s toothpaste and toothbrush packaging. 
Thanks to the ongoing efforts of Colgate People 
around the world, we are helping drive greater awareness of water issues—on World Water Day and every day—among consumers, customers and fellow Colgate People.79
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
Highlights
• In 2017, CP India, in partnership with Water For 
People India Trust, launched its Amravati Water initiative in the villages of Amravati District of Maharashtra. This expansion of Colgate’s partnership with Water For People continues as a result of their successful collaboration in Bihar and West Bengal, since 2013, where clean drinking water has reached 194 villages.  
 The Amravati District of Maharashtra faces extreme water scarcity and challenges in accessing potable water for daily living. This program will support availability and accessibility of water and initiation such as water conservation and rainwater harvesting, and awareness towards hygiene and sanitation (WASH). It will cover 15 villages in the first year, with a projected cumulative coverage of approximately 36 villages over a three year period. Local communities in collaboration with state and local government officials will take an active role in the construction, rehabilitation, 
operation and maintenance of water facilities.
Water and Sanitation Access
Colgate respects the human right to water, sanitation, and hygiene. One of Colgate’s 2020 Sustainability Strategy goals is to work with local and global organizations to help promote access to clean water. We also provide health and hygiene education in communities around the world. 
As part of Colgate’s Water Stewardship Strategy, 
we work with local and global organizations to help promote access to clean water while providing health and hygiene education in communities. In that spirit, Colgate is proud to continue our commitment to support water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) programming, through our partnership with Water For People as they pursue of their mission to reach Everyone—Forever with WASH services across Guatemala, India, and Peru. Since 2013, Colgate’s total support of more than $1.6 million has helped approximately 373,000 people gain access to water services, almost 200,000 people gain access to a toilet, and more than 200,000 people learn about proper hygiene.
In 2017, Colgate continued our partnership with 
Water For People to strengthen and support the municipal water and sanitation offices that were established in each district since we began our partnership in 2013. Our partnership exists to promote the development of high-quality drinking water and sanitation services, accessible to all, and sustained by strong communities, businesses, and governments. 
Water For People - Bolivia
80
Planet
We also recognize that communities facing 
inadequate access to safe water often do not have sufficient sanitation services and that handwashing is not widely practiced. Colgate continues to work with public health officials, academia, local schools, and clinics to educate millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene benefits of handwashing. 
Further, as a matter of long-standing practice, 
Colgate provides safe water, sanitation, and hygiene to all people in our workplaces. 
 
Ecosystem Protection
Colgate will continue to work to protect water-related ecosystems through our commitments to No Deforestation, water replenishment, aquifer protection, wastewater treatment, and community partnerships. In the U.S., Colgate continues to support The Nature Conservancy in its mission to protect and restore the health of rivers, lakes, wetlands, and forests as well as to educate consumers about the importance of clean, accessible water for people and nature. This includes helping to protect bodies of water like the Delaware River Basin (a clean water source to nearly 20 million Americans) by combating nutrient runoff and sedimentation through riparian restoration, and the Sierra Nevada (the source of 65 percent of California’s water supply), where the Conservancy is working to conserve 50,000 acres of critical land to act as a natural reservoir for clear mountain streams. Wastewater Management
Wastewater discharges from Colgate’s operations are generally treated on site and/or by the local municipality prior to discharge to a water body. We continue to work to reduce pollutant-loading in our wastewater discharges prior to treatment. In selected locations where water stress is high, Colgate treats wastewater to tertiary levels, allowing it to be reused for cooling, toilet flushing, gardening, and other purposes. 
Collaboration and Disclosure
As a way to inform our water stewardship efforts, Colgate engages with leading water experts. This collaboration helps build expertise, align efforts, and ensure our water programs meet stakeholder expectations. We are also committed to transparency, reporting publicly on our water stewardship and reduction performance for many years. 
In 2017, Colgate joined the UN CEO Water 
Mandate Action Platform as part of our participation in the UN Global Compact (UNGC). This initiative seeks to mobilize business leaders to advance water stewardship, sanitation, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Colgate is working with the UNGC to leverage the SDGs in the ongoing development of our water stewardship and sustainability strategies. Additionally, we plan to join the UNGC Action Platform on climate-related Pathways to Low-Carbon and Resilient Development.
In 2017, Colgate was named to the CDP Water 
A-List in recognition of our leadership in Water Stewardship. Colgate was the highest ranked U.S.-based company in our industry with a double A rating for 2017.81
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Working Toward Zero Landfill Waste
4681012
’10          ’11           ’12          ’13         ’14         ’15          ’16         ’17kilograms / ton of productGLOBAL WASTE TO 
LANDFILL PER METRIC TON(1)(2)
10.68
10.21
9.72
8.86
8.29
6.54
6.226.00
1. Total landfill waste intensity.
2. Subject to final verification by third-party auditor.Colgate sites have been reducing, reusing, and 
recycling waste for many years. Colgate’s Trash to Treasure program encourages Colgate sites to find reduction opportunities as we work towards zero landfill waste. 
As part of our 2020 Sustainability Strategy, we 
have committed to halve our manufacturing waste sent to landfill per ton of product compared to 2010, working toward our goal of Zero Waste. Up to 2017, we had achieved six Zero Landfill Waste sites based on internal criteria developed from industry best practices.
In 2017, Colgate initiated a new relationship with 
the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) on its TRUE Zero Waste certification program, adopting their program as our global platform to drive Zero Waste. Currently, manufacturing sites in all geographic divisions are using the TRUE Zero Waste approach and tools to develop roadmaps to zero. Additionally, we are aligning our global waste data management systems with TRUE Zero Waste to ensure uniform measurement of results.
In 2017, our Hill’s Emporia, Kansas facility achieved 
our first TRUE Zero Waste certification at the Gold level by delivering a percent diversion rate as verified by an independent GBCI site audit.82
Reducing  
Consumer Waste
We recognize the importance of reducing 
waste at every stage of the product lifecycle, including at the end-of-life of our products and packaging. We have committed to improving the recyclability of our packaging, offering resources to enable breakthrough innovation in Oral Care packaging. We have also committed to delivering 100 percent recyclable packaging in our Personal Care, Home Care, and Hill’s Pet Nutrition categories. See page 51 for more information on our 
packaging commitments and progress.
Building a circular economy in which 
industrial materials and packaging can be recycled and reused is an important part of a sustainable future. In addition to commitments for our own packaging, Colgate has committed to work with stakeholders to drive continuous improvement in local recycling systems.In 2014, we became one of the initial investors in the Closed Loop Fund to develop local recycling infrastructure. In the U.S., municipalities often lack access to the capital to invest in recycling programs and infrastructure. The Closed Loop fund provides zero-interest loans to municipalities and below-market loans to private companies with a goal to develop infrastructure and improve recycling rates. The fund will also seek to co-invest with local private and public entities to magnify its impact. The fund has invested in collection, sortation, and processing of waste. To learn more, visit the Closed Loop website. Progress is measured using five key metrics:
1. T ons diverted
2. Metric t ons of GHG emissions
3. E conomic benefit to municipalities
4. Households r eached or represented
5. C o-investment dollars leveraged
Planet83
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017For many years, Colgate has committed to the U.S. Green Building 
Council (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for all of our new construction projects anywhere in the world. We have used the LEED green building rating system to help design and construct our manufacturing sites, technology centers, warehouses, and offices as one way to help reduce the Company’s overall exposure to water and climate change-related issues and offer a healthier, more comfortable work environment.
Currently, Colgate has 15 facilities that have achieved 20 LEED 
Certifications, with five additional projects underway. Our LEED projects have been conducted in the U.S., Latin America, Asia, and Europe. In addition, we use several LEED-certified third-party distribution centers.
Colgate has been a member company of the USGBC since 2007. The 
Company is also a Charter member of the USGBC LEED User Group: Industrial Facilities, which collaboratively engages in the advancement of LEED and green building practices for the global manufacturing sector. Further information about Colgate’s LEED-certified buildings is available on the USGBC Green Building Information Gateway.
In 2017, Colgate achieved four new LEED certifications at our Global 
Technology Center in Piscataway New Jersey (two LEED Gold) and our Hawley & Hazel Oral Care manufacturing site in China (LEED Silver and LEED Certified).Commitment to Sustainable Buildings
“LEED” and related logos are trademarks owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and are used with permission.Nearly 30% of Colgate 
People enjoy the health and wellness benefits associated with working in a LEED-certified facility.70% of our toothbrushes 
are manufactured in LEED-certified facilities.
Colgate, Hawley & Hazel Oral Care manufacturing facility in China.84
An important element of Colgate’s sustainability 
strategy is our engagement and collaboration with external partners, which complement our strong internal capabilities. Colgate has partnerships with a broad array of organizations, including suppliers, research institutions, universities, industry, and non-profits. Some of Colgate’s sustainability partners in 2017 included:Partnerships
85
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017Colgate partners with the American Dental Association Foundation each year 
to sponsor the “Give Kids A Smile®” program. Each year, approximately 350,000 
underserved children benefit from more than 1,500 events thanks to the efforts of 
40,000 or more annual volunteers. Colgate continues its support with donations of 
$100,000 and 300,000 oral care products annually.
EDF Climate Corps is a summer fellowship program that embeds trained, custom-
matched graduate students within leading organizations to accelerate clean energy 
projects and strategy. Colgate has hosted Climate Corps fellows since 2013, and 
in 2017 an EDF fellow helped Colgate develop a roadmap to achieve a net zero 
manufacturing site for carbon, water and waste.
Colgate has been a long-standing member of EUROPEN (The European Organization 
for Packaging and the Environment)  — which is a cr oss-industry organization 
presenting the packaging supply chain in Europe on topics related to packaging, 
packaging waste and the environment, independent of any specific packaging 
materials or systems. Colgate is highly committed to a packaging supply chain 
approach which supports our packaging sustainability agenda and related corporate 
objectives in Europe towards a Circular Economy.
Colgate partners with ORCHSE, a leading global safety network organization, 
which assist multi-national companies in achieving and sustaining health, safety 
and environmental (HSE) performance excellence. The organization’s network 
of 110 member companies, representing 20 different industry sectors, facilitates communication and sharing of effective practices between partner companies, and 
between industry and governmental agencies responsible for establishing national 
and international HSE policies.
Colgate partnered with the Rainforest Alliance, an international non-profit 
organization with 30 years of experience in responsible forest management and 
sustainable sourcing, to develop a specific policy to the sustainable sourcing of pulp 
and paper.
Colgate’s commitment to increasing access to children’s oral health and education in 
the community includes a strategic partnership with Save the Children in the Africa, 
Latin America, and the U.S. regions.
Colgate is a member of the Sustainable Packaging Coalition, a project of non-
profit GreenBlue
®, which brings together businesses, educational institutions, 
and government agencies to collectively strengthen and advance the business case for more sustainable packaging. Membership offers important education 
and collaboration opportunities as well as forward-thinking projects that promote 
packaging sustainability.
Colgate has been a member company of the USGBC since 2007. Colgate is also a 
Charter Member of the USGBC LEED User Group: Industrial Facilities, which actively 
engages in the advancing green building practices for manufacturing sites. In 2017, 
Colgate began working with USGBC on its TRUE Zero Waste certification program as a way to help support our efforts to drive towards zero waste.
86
The following is provided to supplement 
certain financial measures discussed in the letter to shareholders and the financial highlights section of this report both as reported (GAAP) and excluding the impact of certain items (non-GAAP), as explained to the right. Investors and analysts use these financial measures to assess the Company’s business performance, and management believes that presenting these financial measures on a non-GAAP basis provides them with useful supplemental information to enhance their understanding 
of the Company’s underlying business 
performance and trends. These non-GAAP financial measures also enhance the ability to compare period-to-period financial results. The Company uses these financial measures internally in its budgeting process, to evaluate segment and overall operating performance and as factors in determining compensation. While the Company believes that these financial measures are useful to evaluate the Company’s underlying business performance and trends, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP . In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP 
Financial Measures
1. Represents charges related to the Global Growth and 
Efficiency Program.  
2.  Represents a provisional charge related to U.S. tax reform.
3.  In 2016, represents a gain on the sale of land in Mexico. In 
2014 and 2013, represents costs related to the sale of land in Mexico.
4.  Represents charges for litigation matters.
5.  Represents income tax (benefits) charges related to tax 
matters.
6.  Represents a charge resulting from the deconsolidation of 
the Company’s Venezuelan operations.
7.  Represents a gain on the sale of the Company’s laundry 
detergent business in the South Pacific.
8.  In 2015 and 2014, represents remeasurement charges 
related to effective devaluations in Venezuela. In 2013, represents a charge related to a devaluation in Venezuela.(Dollars in Millions  Gr oss Profit  Oper ating  Net  Dilut ed  
Except Per Share Amounts)  Mar gin  Pr ofit  Inc ome  EPS   
As Reported (GAAP)  60.0%  $3,589  $2,024  $2.28  
Global Growth and 
 Efficienc y Program (1) 0.5%  333  246  0.28
U.S. Tax Reform (2) –  –  275  0.31
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  60.5%  $3,922  $2,545  $2.87
As Reported (GAAP)  60.0%  $3,837  $2,44 1  $2.72  
Global Growth and 
 Efficienc y Program (1) 0.3%  228  1 68  0.19
Mexico Land Sale (3) –  (97)  (63)  (0.07)
Litigation Matters (4) –  1 7  1 1  0.01
Tax Matters (5) –  –  (35)  (0.04)
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  60.3%  $3,985  $2,522  $2.8 1
As Reported (GAAP)  58.6%  $2,789  $ 1,384  $ 1.52   
Venezuela Deconsolidation (6) –  1,084  1,058  1.1 6
Global Growth and 
 Efficienc y Program (1) 0.1%  254  1 83  0.20
Sale of Non-Core Product Line (7) –  (1 87)  (1 20)  (0.13)
Venezuela Remeasurements (8) –  34  22  0.02
Litigation Matters (4) –  14  14  0.02
Tax Matters (5) –  –  1 5  0.02
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.7%  $3,988  $2,556  $2.8 1
As Reported (GAAP)  58.5%  $3,557  $2,180  $2.36
Global Growth and 
 Efficienc y Program (1) 0.2%  286  208  0.23
Venezuela Remeasurements (8) –  327  2 14  0.23
Litigation Matters (4) –  41  41  0.04
Mexico Land Sale (3) –  4  3  –
Tax Matters (5) –  –  66  0.07
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.7%  $4,2 15  $2,7 12  $2.93
As Reported (GAAP)  58.6%  $3,556  $2,24 1  $2.38  
Global Growth and 
 Efficienc y Program (1) 0.2%  37 1  278  0.30
Venezuela Remeasurements (8) –  1 72  1 11  0.12
Litigation Matters (4) –  23  23  0.03
Mexico Land Sale (3) –  1 8  1 2  0.01
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.8%  $4,1 40  $2,665  $2.842017
2016
2015
2014
201387
COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017About This ReportAbout This 
Report
We recognize that transparency is important 
and provides a window into the Company’s performance on sustainability. It is important for Colgate to provide the sustainability information relevant to a broad range of stakeholders, including consumers, customers, investors, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and our own employees. 
Colgate recognizes the importance of data 
verification and is obtaining third-party assurance for our primary environmental and social Key Performance Indicators: percentage of products with an improved sustainability profile; manufacturing carbon reduction per ton (of production); manufacturing energy reduction per ton (of production); manufacturing water consumption per ton (of production); waste-to-landfill per ton (of production); and outbound logistics carbon per ton (of goods shipped); number of hours worked; number of lost-time incidents; number of recordable incidents; and number of occupational fatalities.
In this report and other channels, Colgate 
discloses information on our sustainability progress and responds to several rating organizations, including CDP Climate, CDP Water, CDP Forest, and CDP Supply Chain. Colgate provides information to RobecoSAM to inform the Dow Jones Sustainability Index rankings. Colgate’s sustainability information is also available on the Bloomberg Terminal.Unless otherwise indicated, this report includes environmental, occupational health and safety data from 100 percent of Colgate’s manufac -
turing sites and technology centers around the world, but does not include data from contract manufacturers.
1  Certain information relates to 
our broader value chain: Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment program data includes se -
lected contract manufacturers, warehouses, and suppliers; our greenhouse gas and water foot -
prints include additional data from upstream and downstream in our value chain; and progress on our Policy on No Deforestation includes select -
ed suppliers. Financial information is presented on a consolidated basis and in U.S. dollars (see Business Strength). The report provides data for Colgate’s fiscal year 2017 along with prior history and more recent updates where indicated. We is -
sue our Sustainability Report on an annual basis; our previous report focused on 2016.
In 2017, we began the process of transitioning 
from the GRI G4 framework to the GRI Standards. The alignment of this year’s report to the new framework can be found in our Content Index. There are no significant changes in the scope of our report or the key sustainability issues identified. We are working towards being in accordance with the Core option and plan to be fully aligned in the next two years.
For feedback, questions, and comments related  
to Colgate’s 2017 Sustainability Report, please 
contact csr@colpal.com. For all other inquiries, 
please visit Colgate’s Consumer Affairs site at colgatepalmolive.com.
Cautionary Statement on Forward -Looking Statements
This report, including our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy, contains forward -looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements are made on the basis of Colgate’s 
views and assumptions as of this time, and Colgate undertakes no obligation to update these statements except as required by law. Colgate cautions investors 
that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual events or results may differ materially from these statements 
due to a number of factors. For information about factors that could impact Colgate’s business and cause actual results to differ materially from forward -looking 
statements, consult our filings with the SEC (including the information set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” in Colgate’s Annual Report on Form 10 -K for the 
year ended December 31, 2017).
1. Although Colgate does not include the local operating results of CP Venezuela and CP Pakistan in its Consolidated Financial Statements, data from 
these locations are included in the calculations in this report. 
87 COLGATE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017300 Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10022-7499