Giving the World Reasons To SmileColgate Sustainability Report 2013
2 of 54
Giving the World Reasons To Smile
About This Report
Unless otherwise indicated, this report includes environmental, occupational health 
and safety data from 100 percent of Colgate-Palmolive-owned manufacturing and technology centers around the world, excluding contract manufacturers. Financial information is global and is given in U.S. dollars. The report provides data for Colgate’s fiscal year 2013, along with prior history and more recent updates where indicated. 
This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines.
For feedback, questions and comments related to Colgate’s 2013 Sustainability 
Report, please contact csr@colpal.com. For all other inquiries, please visit Colgate’s Consumer Affairs site at www.ColgatePalmolive.com. 
Contents:
Message from Ian Cook  3
Company Profile  4
Awards and Recognition  6
2011 to 2015 Strategy  8
Progress to Date  9
Recent Commitments  10
n  People  11
n  Performance  22
n  Planet  31
Spotlight on... Emerging Markets  40
Spotlight on... Suppliers  43
Spotlight on... Partnerships  47
Continuing Our Journey  49
Key Performance Indicators  50
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 51
3 of 54
Message from Ian Cook
Everyone at Colgate has a role to play in driving our sustainability success, and 
Colgate people everywhere have a lot to be proud of. Through the leadership of Colgate people around the world we continue to make great progress toward the goals communicated in our 2011 to 2015 Sustainability Strategy. 
 Our long-standing commitment to sustainability and executional excellence 
helps drive Colgate’s strong performance as we join our consumers, suppliers, partners and customers to continuously improve each and every day. This commitment is demonstrated through the programs and initiatives that bring our brands and our values to life around the world. 
 In the People, Performance and Planet sections of this report, you will see 
that our progress continues in all areas of our strategy. In several areas, we have already surpassed our goals. We are continuing to bring brighter, healthier smiles through our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” oral education program, reaching 50 million children last year. Nearly half of our products developed last year had an improved sustainability profile. And we continue to make excellent progress on our Planet goals for carbon, water and waste reduction. 
 Given the vital importance of sustainability in today’s world, we ar e also looking 
to the future, and will release our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy later this year. Our recently announced Policy on No Deforestation and our climate change initiatives will be included, together with other new commitments that will help us realize shared value for both Colgate and the communities where we live and work. 
 The progress reported here is a testament to the power of Colgate people in 
executing our strategy, integrating sustainability into everything we do. With this strong commitment evident everywhere, I am confident that we will continue “Giving the World Reasons to Smile.” 
Thank you,
Ian Cook
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
4 of 54
Founded in 1806, Colgate-Palmolive is a $17.42 billion consumer 
products company that serves people around the world with well-
known brands that make their lives healthier and more enjoyable.
Colgate Brands
Colgate provides oral care, personal care, home care and pet nutrition products 
under trusted brands such as: Colgate, Palmolive, Mennen, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sorriso, Kolynos, Elmex, Tom’s of Maine, Ajax, Axion, Soupline, Suavitel, Hill’s Science Diet and Hill’s Prescription Diet.
Operations
Colgate operates in over 75 countries and sells products in over 200 countries and territories. 
37,400 Colgate employees drive our success.Headquartered in New York City, Colgate operates through six divisions around 
the world: 
The Company has over 50 manufacturing and research facilities globally. The vast 
majority of Colgate products are manufactured in Colgate-owned facilities. Six DivisionsHill’s Pet Nutrition Africa/EurasiaNorth America Latin America Europe/South Pacific
Softsoap Blue- PMS 661
Silver- Foil Stamp
®
® ®
Company Profile
Asia
5 of 58
5 of 54
Business Strength Colgate Values
Colgate’s success is linked to the Company’s values of  
Caring, Global Teamwork and Continuous Improvement.
n Caring
The Company cares about people: Colgate people, customers, shareholders and business partners. Colgate is committed to act with compassion, integrity, honesty and high ethics in all situations, to listen with respect to others and to value differences. The Company is also committed to protect the global environment, to enhance the communities where Colgate people live and work, and to be compliant with government laws and regulations.
n Global Teamwork
All Colgate people are part of a global team, committed to working together across countries and throughout the world. Only by sharing ideas, technologies and talents can the Company achieve and sustain profitable growth.
n Continuous Improvement
Colgate is committed to getting better every day in all it does, as individuals and as teams. By better under -
standing consumers’ and customers’ expectations and continuously working to innovate and improve products, services and processes, Colgate will become the best.
Colgate Policy Statements  
nEnvironmental, Occupational Health  & Safety Policy Statement
nCode of Conduct
nGlobal Business Practices Guidelines
nSupplier Code of Conduct
nFCPA and Anti-Bribery Policy
nProduct Safety Research Policy
nState of California Disclosure:  Supply Chain Transparency
nGlobal HIV/AIDS Policy Statement
nIngredient Safety Policy
nPolicy on No Deforestation
20132012201120102009
$17,420$17,085$16,734$15,564$15,327Net Sales  ($ millions)
Dividends Paid(1) (per common share)
Gross Profit Margin and Additional Information(2) (% of sales)Operating Profit and Additional Information(3) ($ millions)
Diluted Earnings Per Share and Additional Information(1)(3) 
$1.33$1.22$1.14$1.02$0.86
20132012201120102009
58.8% (2)58.3% (2)57.6% (2)59.1%58.8%
58.6% 58.1%
20132012201120102009
$2.38$2.57$2.47$2.16
$2.84 (3)$2.68 (3)$2.51 (3)$2.42 (3)$2.18
20132012201120102009
$4,140 (3)$4,023 (3)$3,858 (3)$3,796 (3)$3,615
20132012201120102009
$3,556$3,889$3,841
57.3%$3,489
(1) All per share amounts have been restated for the two-for-one stock 
 split in 2013. 
(2) 2013 excludes charges related to the 2012 Restructuring Program and 
certain other 2013 items. 2012 excludes costs related to the sale of land in Mexico. 2011 excludes costs associated with various business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives. A complete reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on 
 Colgate’s website.
(3) 2013 and 2012 exclude charges related to the 2012 Restructuring Program and certain other 2013 and 2012 items. 2011 excludes costs associated with various business realignment and other cost-saving ini-tiatives and certain other 2011 items. 2010 excludes a one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela and certain other 2010 items. A complete reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on Colgate’s website.Company Profile6 of 54
Colgate continues to be recognized for efforts in Sustainability and Social Responsibility:
Colgate No. 50 overall, 
No. 3 Personal Care
Walmart recognized C-P Mexico as the Sustainable Supplier of the Year for three consecutive years
C-P recognized in four award categories at 2013 Asia Society Diversity Leadership Forum and Awards Ceremony
2013 Working Mother 100 Best Companies2014 World’s Most  Ethical Companies from Ethisphere Magazine
National Association for Female Executives Top 50 Companies for Executive Women 2013Dow Jones Sustainability  World Index and North America IndexRobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook 
Silver Class 2014Ranked among top companies in Soap and Cosmetics category for several years 
Colgate named Top Socially 
Responsible Dividend Stock Ranked No. 10 in Global Supply Chain Top 25 by GartnerNamed to Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index in 2013
Colgate was ranked in 2013 by Interbrand as one of the Best Global Green BrandsPeople Performance Planet
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Partner of 
the Year 2014 for 4th year in a row, with recognition for Sustained Excellence 
Colgate given a “Striding” ranking from Climate Counts for climate change action
No. 21 in DiversityInc 
Top 50 Companies for Diversity 2013
Awards and Recognition7 of 58
7 of 54
Colgate Sustainability Excellence Award
Colgate Sustainability Excellence Award
Colgate established our internal Colgate Sustainability Excellence Award to recognize our geographic divisions 
that are excelling in sustainability. It is awarded to the division that demonstrates sustainability leadership and outstanding progress in integrating Colgate’s Sustainability Strategy into all aspects of its business. Last year, Colgate’s Latin America Division won the 2012 Sustainability Excellence Award. 
 This year , we are proud to award both the Latin America Division and the North America Division with the 
Second Annual Sustainability Excellence Award for their outstanding contributions to sustainability across the People, Performance and Planet pillars. In 2013, both divisions best exemplified their adher ence to the 
Sustainability Strategy and delivered on their commitments and action plans. Both are recognized for their communication efforts and employee and customer engagement.
 W e are proud that our divisions demonstrated significant progress and achieved success in sustainability 
through such initiatives as promoting employee volunteerism through our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” oral care initiative, handwashing education and our partnership with Water for People, in which we helped bring clean water and upgraded sanitation standards to underserved areas. Significant progress was made to improve the sustainability profile of our products, along with energy, waste and water reduction. Congratulations to the Latin America Division and the North America Division and the many employees responsible for this accomplishment.
Guatemala
United States
United States
 Brazil8 of 54
We Will 
n Promote health  
and wellness to reduce 
employee health risks  by 15%
n Achieve a 5% reduc-
tion in health costs and an improvement in early diagnosis of chronic and treatable disease
n Continue to focus 
on safety to achieve the goal of zero lost-time incidentsW
e Will 
n Commit over $300 
million to increase our impact in the community
n Partner with 
dental professionals to improve community oral health care
n Expand “Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures” program externally to reach one billion children by 2020
n Provide hand-
washing awareness to over 50 million households
n Work with 250,000 
veterinarians worldwide to educate pet owners and provide over $100 million in pet food  to shelters
n Continue to provide 
Colgate products after natural disasters 
n Involve more 
Colgate volunteers in our community programsWe Will 
n Increase the sustain-
ability profile in all new products we produce and in the balance of our portfolio
n Ensure that ingredi-
ents continue to meet or exceed all recog-nized standards for safety, quality and envi-ronmental compliance and biodegradability
n Reduce the environ-
mental impact of our products and packages by 20%, by increasing the use of sustainable  materials and recycled content We Will 
n Reduce the water 
consumed(1) in the 
manufacture of our products by 40% vs. 2005 consumption
n Reduce the use of 
water associated with our products by 15%
n Work with local and 
global organizations to help promote access  to clean water
n Promote water 
conservation aware-ness among over two billion consumersWe Will 
n Reduce energy 
consumption(1) and 
carbon emissions(1) 
associated with the manufacture
(2) and 
distribution(3) of our 
products by 20%
n Reduce waste(1)(4)
sent to landfills from our operations by 15%
n Request that all key 
suppliers measure and disclose climate change informationColgate’s 2011 to 2015 strategy maintains its emphasis on People, 
Performance and Planet, with focused, measurable goals that align with the Company’s business objectives.
Delivering  
Products  
That Delight  
Consumers  
and Respect 
Our Planet
Contributing 
to the  
Communities 
Where We Live 
and Work
Promoting 
Healthier 
 Lives
Making  
Every Drop 
of W
ater  
Count
Reducing  
Our Impact  
on Climate  
and the  
Environment2011 to 2015 Strategy
(1) Per unit of production 
(2) Vs. 2005
(3) Baseline year varies by geography
(4) Vs. 20109 of 54
n Colgate launched 
health and wellness 
risk assessments in 14 countries in 2013. More than 11,000 Colgate employees were invited to take advantage of this new health management tool. 
n Over 20,000 
Colgate employees reached the goal of 500 minutes of healthy activity during the July Global Health Activity Challenge, together logging in over 12.9 million minutes.
n Colgate published 
an updated HIV/AIDS Policy to combat HIV/AIDS among employ-ees, their families and the community.n Colgate’s “Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures” oral health education program reached 50 million children in 2013, for a total of 750 million children since its inception in 1991. 
n Hill’s Pet Nutrition 
contributed pet food with a retail value of more than $7.5 million in 2013, which adds up to more than $275 million to nearly 1,000 shelters since the program’s inception in 2002. These donations have helped more than 7 million dogs and cats find their forever home.  
n Colgate donated 
over $200,000 in cash and in-kind contribu-tions in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan. Colgate employees and their families in the Philippines volunteered with the Red Cross.n Colgate made com-
mitments to eliminate formaldehyde donors, parabens, phthalates and microplastics from our products over the next two years. For more information see our Policy on Ingredi-ent Safety on Colgate’s Sustainability website. 
n In 2013, the number 
of new products evalu-ated with our Product Sustainability Score-card nearly doubled. Over 48% of the products were deter -
mined to be “more sustainable,” having an improvement in at least one of the follow-ing areas: responsible sourcing, raw materi-als, water, waste, energy/GHG, ingredi-ent profile, packaging and social.
(1)(2)n From 2005 to 2013, 
Colgate reduced water use per ton of production by nearly 33%, avoiding enough water use to fill over 5,700 Olympic-sized swimming pools.
(2)
n Since 2010, Colgate 
has promoted water conservation aware-ness among over 250 million consumers. In 2013, Colgate added reminders to our pack-aging for consumers to conserve water, with plans to expand the message in 2014.
n Colgate launched a 
partnership with Water for People, bringing clean drinking water and sanitation to over 10,000 people in India and Guatemala. Plans are in place to expand this partnership in 2014.n From 2005 to 2013, 
Colgate reduced greenhouse gas emissions per ton of production by approx-imately 16%, avoiding emissions equivalent to removing over 140,000 passenger cars from the road for one year.
(2) 
n Colgate has 
reduced the amount of waste per ton of production sent to landfills by over 17% in the past three years.
(2)  
n In concert with the 
Consumer Goods Forum, Colgate is committing to mobilize resources to help us achieve zero net deforestation by 2020.Colgate is pleased to report great progress in 2013 on our 2011 to 2015 Sustainability Strategy 
commitments. In 2013 the Company was again named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Leadership Index, was ranked as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere Magazine, and was selected for the CDP Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. Colgate was also recently named a U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 2014 Partner of the Year with Sustained Excellence in Energy Management. In addition to the highlights below, more about Colgate’s Sustainability Strategy progress is available on Colgate’s Sustainability website at www.colgatepalmolive.com.
Performance
Delivering  
Products That  
Delight Consumers 
and Respect Our 
Planet
People
Contributing 
to the 
Communities 
Wher
e We Live 
and W
ork
People
Promoting 
Healthier 
 Lives
Planet
Making Every 
Dr
op of 
W
ater Count
Planet
Reducing Our
Impact on 
Climate and
the Environment
(1) The performance results are based on representative products from the product portfolio evaluated against comparable Colgate products across eight impact 
 areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data.
(2) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor.Progress to Date10 of 54
Recent Commitments
Colgate has made several bold commitments to sus-
tainability in recent months. Listening to consumers, external groups and other stakeholders, we have published new policies on Ingredient Safety and No Deforestation and updated our HIV/AIDS policy. We have made strong commitments to reduce energy and greenhouse gas emissions and to improve packaging sustainability.
No Deforestation
Forests are vital to life on earth. It is estimated that over the past 50 years, about half of the world’s original forests have been lost, significantly impacting biodiversity, social stability and climate change. As a member of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), Colgate has committed to mobilize resources to help achieve zero net deforestation by 2020. In consultation with key stakeholders such as Greenpeace, we developed a new policy detailing our commitment and our sourcing strategies for pulp and paper, palm oil, tallow and soy.
Climate Change 
Colgate has long been focused on reducing energy and carbon emissions. We have reported to CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2004, and have been selected for their Carbon Disclosure Leadership Indices several times. Until now, our goals have focused on energy use per ton of product. Given the urgent need for action on climate change and reflecting our values of Caring and Continuous Improvement, we consulted with Walden Asset Management to develop rigorous goals for the next phase of our strategy. We are pleased to an-nounce our commitment to reduce carbon emissions on an absolute basis by 25 percent compared to 2002, with a longer-term goal of a 50 percent absolute reduction by 2050 compared to 2002. These goals are in line with the CDP and World Wildlife Fund report – The 3% Solution – and will allow us to play our part in limiting global warming to 2°C, as recommended by the Intergovern-mental Panel on Climate Change. We thank Walden Asset Management for helping us to shape our strategy.Ingredient Safety
The decisions we make on ingredients are based on a thorough evaluation of the latest scientific evidence. Where we see opportunities regarding ingredients that are raising consumer questions, we substitute other safe ingredients that provide the same or better benefits without sacrificing quality. Through this ongoing effort, we no longer use – or are on our way to eliminating – some of the ingredients currently raising consumerquestions. In our Policy on Ingredient Safety, Colgate made commitments to eliminate formaldehyde donors, parabens, phthalates and microplastics from our products over the next two years. 
Packaging  
Colgate is committed to improving the sustainable profile of our packaging, and we have already exceeded our goal to increase recycled content by 20 percent by 2015. In consultation with As You Sow, Colgate has developed new commitments for 2020. We will increase the recycled content in our packaging to 50 percent and improve the recyclability of our packaging, committing resources to enable breakthrough innovation in oral care packaging. We will also work with stakeholders to drive continuous improvement in local recycling systems. We will continue to evaluate new package designs with a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) tool in order to optimize our packaging.
HIV/AIDS 
Colgate’s first HIV/AIDS program began in 1986 in Brazil. In 1990, a group of interested South African Colgate employees developed what has become the model for Colgate’s global HIV/AIDS initiatives. Since then Colgate has worked to promote education and awareness, provide training for employees and their families, promote access to treatment, develop partnerships with third parties and ensure non-discrimination. We updated the HIV/AIDS policy in 2013 to reflect current practices and highlights, and we are also working internally to review benefit plans and opportunities for HIV testing.Recent Commitments11 of 54
People
For over 200 years, Colgate has been committed to “People.” From the near 37,400 employees 
around the world who run our business to the billions of consumers who use our products, people are at the heart of what we do and how we do it.   
At a Glance 
37,400
 employees 
around the world
750   Million
children reached  
in 80 countries by  
Colgate’s “Bright Smiles, 
Bright Futures”  
Oral Health Education 
 Program since 1991
62.5 Million
reached about the 
importance of 
 
handwashing with 
soap in 2013 
7 Million
pet adoptions  
supported by Hill’s Pet 
Nutrition in 2013
12.9 Million
minutes of healthy activity 
logged by Colgate 
 
employees in July 2013,  
as part of Colgate’s 
Live Better program12 of 54
People
The Chairman’s Global “You Can Make a Difference Award” recognizes individual 
employees or teams who exhibit innovation, ingenuity, and executional excellence while driving our strategic initiatives.
Rewarding Good IdeasColgate People
Colgate’s people help our business continue to thrive. In turn, the Company is 
committed to helping people thrive. Through training, career development and wellness programs, Colgate helps employees stay healthy, engaged and focused on delivering products and services that meet or exceed expectations. 
Striving to Be an Employer of Choice 
We are committed to attracting, developing and retaining talented and dedicated people by:
nProviding a stimulating career with training, education, and growth opportunities 
nCreating an exciting and motivating work environment 
nEnsuring that people feel recognized and r ewarded 
nProviding leadership development programs
nSupporting activities that reflect our corporate values of Caring, Global 
Teamwork and Continuous Improvement 
nRecruiting and retaining people of all backgr ounds in our global workforce 
nPromoting healthier lives for our employees 
nEncouraging a healthy balance between work and personal responsibilities
Our training programs provide opportunities for Colgate people to keep current in their assignments, to gain valuable new skills and to enable them to grow for the future. Employees can select from a broad array of training programs offered in a traditional classroom format, through virtual and teleconference classrooms, or through online self-paced e-Learning. In most cases, employees participate in an annual Individual Development Planning process with their manager to agree on an annual learning and development plan. In 2013, employees completed 202,446 total hours of training in our global curriculum, as well as additional hours of locally required safety, environmental and other regulatory training. 
2013 Awards 
Highlights 
 Corporate Responsibility 
Magazine’s 100 Best  
Corporate Citizens 
2013 Working Mother 
100 Best Companies 
DiversityInc  
Top 50 Companies 
for Diversity 2013 
World’s Most  
Ethical Companies
13 of 54
People
Living Better 
at Colgate
Opportunities for 
exer
cise and  
healthy activities 
n
Access to voluntary 
 
Health and Well-
being Assessment tool
n
Y
early focus areas  
such as  
nutrition or resilience
n
Financial 
 
planning resources
n
Resour
ces for  
balancing work and lifeHealth, Wellness and Safety
Keeping Colgate people healthy in both body and mind is a strategic focus for the 
Company and part of our 2011 to 2015 Sustainability Strategy. Colgate’s wellness initiative – Live Better – encompasses physical, emotional and financial wellness, and encourages holistic health for all employees and family members. Colgate provides Live Better events, activities and resources all around the world to support employees in their efforts. Our goal is to reduce employee health risks by at least 15 percent by 2015. 
 A key Live Better activity is the annual Global Healthy Activity Challenge, which 
encourages employees to track and log at least 500 minutes of healthy activity in one month. In 2013, over 20,000 employees reached their goal and logged in over 12.9 million minutes. Colgate also launched health and wellness risk assessments in 14 countries in 2013. More than 11,000 Colgate employees were invited to take advantage of this new health management tool. 
Work/Life Integration 
Wellness at Colgate includes opportunities for employees to obtain a balance between work and life. Colgate partners with organizations such as the Conference Board, Diversity Best Practices, the National Association for Female Executives (NAFE), Working Mother Media, DiversityInc, LatinaStyle and Catalyst to develop an effective and supportive work environment. Programs vary by geography, but in many locations the Company provides child care options, as well as other flexible work arrangements. 
 “Living Better” through Soccer in Vietnam
Job search engine 
Indeed named Colgate 
one of the 25 Big 
Companies with the 
Best Work-Life Balance
14 of 54
People
Global Safety StatisticsEmployee Safety   
Colgate continued our best-in-class safety performance in 2013 and expects 
to remain in the first quartile of Mercer ORC benchmarked companies for the seventh consecutive year.
 Every Colgate facility is r esponsible for implementing global Occupational 
Health and Safety Standards, and undergoes comprehensive Environmental,  Occupational Health and Safety reviews and audits against these Standards. 
 T o further reaffirm our safety culture, each year Colgate technology centers, 
warehouses and manufacturing sites sponsor a Safety Week event around themes such as preventing slips, trips and falls, ergonomics and recognizing hazards. Most events include Colgate families with both fun and educational activities.
Labor Rights  
Colgate is committed to respecting human rights worldwide. To that end, Colgate practices and seeks to work with business partners who promote the following standards: equal opportunity for employees at all levels; a safe and healthy work -
place protecting human health and the environment; providing employees with the opportunity to improve their skills and capabilities; respecting employees’ lawful freedom of association; and working with governments and communities in which we do business to improve the educational, cultural, economic and social well-being in those communities.
 For Supply Chain information, see section on Colgate’ s Supplier Responsible 
Sourcing Standard, pages 43-44, or Colgate’s Supplier Code of Conduct.
per 200,000 work-hours
00.51.01.52.02.5
Total Recordable Rate 
Lost Workday Case Rate   
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998Colgate’s worldwide  
“Be Colgate Careful” 
safety campaign reminds 
our people to be aware 
and alert to avoid slips, 
trips, falls, spills  
and other accidents. 
15 of 54
People
Diversity and Inclusion
Colgate’s objective is to foster an inclusive workplace that reflects the diversity 
of the global marketplace. Such an environment provides all Colgate people with the opportunity to make unique contributions to our overall business success. At Colgate, diversity includes more than obvious traits, such as ethnicity or gender. Our view of diversity also encompasses the many differences that are not so easily seen, such as life experience, unique outlook and talent, sexual orientation and family situation. 
 To help foster an atmosphere of inclusiveness, Colgate supports network 
and affinity groups representing many different perspectives and ways of life. Each group contributes to Colgate’s inclusive work environment by developing and implementing activities and programs to promote work and community involvement, as well as cultural awareness.
  Colgate’s training pr ogram “Valuing Colgate People” is taught in every Colgate 
subsidiary globally. Through Colgate’s day-long, interactive “Fostering an Inclusive Work Environment” training program, participants gain a greater understanding of diversity and the role we all play in supporting a global inclusive workplace. 
A Selection of Colgate Network Groups
nAsian Action Network
nBlack Action Committee
nColgate Women’ s Network
nColgate Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, 
Transgender (GLBT) Network
nColgate Parents NetworknHill’s 4 Generation Network
nHill’s Diversity Council
nHill’s Women Empowerment  
 Network
nHispanic Action Network 
nNew Employee OrganizationDiversity at Colgate
39 %
women in 
 
global workforce 
34 %
women in management 
positions (Global)
37%
women in management 
positions (U.S.)
30%
minorities in U.S. 
workfor
ce
31%
of all U.S. managers 
ar
e minorities
20%
women on  
Board of Directors
40%
minorities on  
Board of Directors 
16 of 54
People
Business Integrity
The way Colgate conducts business is vital to the Company’s reputation and suc-
cess. With governance principles that guide business management and oversight, and a Code of Conduct and ethics policy embedded into Company culture, Colgate ensures its business success goes hand in hand with business integrity.
Colgate’s Governance Principles  
nColgate’s Board of Directors is independent, experienced and diverse.
nColgate’s Board focuses on key business priorities and leadership development.
nOpen communication among directors and between dir ectors and management 
fosters effective oversight.
n Established policies guide governance and business integrity .
See the Governance section of Colgate’s website for more information.
Code of Conduct and Global Business Practices Guidelines
Colgate’s Code of Conduct certification and training process reinforces the Company’s expectations regarding acceptable and appropriate employee behavior. In 2013, all Colgate people underwent training and certification on the Code of Conduct. Our audit firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , audits a cross section of these certifications.
 Colgate’s Global Business Practices Guidelines pr ovide further information 
to our employees on select topics in our Code of Conduct. The Guidelines offer clear, practical guidance and illustrate how the values and principles outlined in the Code of Conduct apply to particular business situations. Colgate has a policy of zero tolerance when it comes to employee misconduct. 
 We also conduct a Compliance Risk Assessment annually to ensure continued 
progress in this area.
No Political Contributions
Colgate has a long-standing policy against making contributions to political parties or candidates, which is set forth in both our Code of Conduct and Global Business Practices Guidelines. These policies prohibit contributions to any politi-cal party or candidate, whether federal, state or local. We also prohibit U.S. trade associations from using any portion of Colgate dues for political contributions. 
Anti-Bribery
Further, Colgate has a strict policy prohibiting bribery or corruption of individuals, commercial entities or government officials anywhere we do business. Colgate’s anti-bribery policy is also included in our Supplier Code of Conduct, and is further communicated to third parties through our global Third Party Due Diligence process.
 See the Global Ethics and Compliance section of Colgate’s website for 
more information.Colgate named to  
2014 World’s 
Most Ethical  
Companies list by  
Ethisphere Magazine 
17 of 54
People
Contributing to Communities
Promoting Oral Health 
Many children around the world do not have access to basic dental care and 
education. As a leading provider of oral care products, Colgate has a unique ability to educate and improve the oral health of children and their families. Colgate’s flagship “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” (BSBF) program is among the most far-reaching, successful children’s oral health initiatives in the world. With long-standing partnerships with governments, schools and communities, BSBF has reached more than 750 million children and their families across 80 countries since 1991, with a goal to reach one billion children by 2020.
 Through BSBF , Colgate distributes toothpaste, toothbrushes, videos, books, 
software and activities in over 30 languages for use in the classroom or at home. Volunteer dentists visit local communities to conduct free dental screenings and educate children and their families about the importance of maintaining good oral health.  
 Colgate is a founding and principal sponsor of the Global Child Dental Fund, 
which is carrying out the vision of the World Health Organization (WHO) to eliminate cavities in children by 2026. Colgate partners with ministries of health and dental associations around the world to expand the reach of BSBF and oral care education. 
“Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” in BrazilOral Health Care  
2013 Highlights
50 million children 
r
eached through 
BSBF in 2013 
n
Launched new 
 
education program in 
schools in V
ietnam
n
Partnered with  
the Brazil Ministry of 
Health to train 
 
10,000 “Community  
Health Agents”
n
Partner
ed with over  
2,000 Teach for America 
educators to reach  
U.S. children on  
Smile for Picture Day
n
884 children received  
reconstructive surgery 
through Operation Smile 
sponsorship  
in Latin America18 of 54
People
“Turning handwashing 
with soap…
 
into an ingrained         
habit could save  
more lives than any  
single vaccine or        
medical intervention.”     
— Global Public- Private  
Partnership for           
Handwashing with Soap
Handwashing Education in South AfricaHandwashing  
2013 Highlights
62.5 million children 
and their families 
r
eached in 2013
n
Global Handwashing Day 
celebrated October 15 
 
with awareness  
campaigns and events 
n
6.5 million children  
reached in Latin America 
through awareness  
building and education
n
Handwashing education 
 
materials provided to  
over 8,000 preschools in 
South Pacific r
egion
n
Reached more than  
78,000 people in  
Senegal and Cameroon  
with education and  
awareness to prevent the 
spr
ead of choleraHandwashing Education
The simple act of washing hands with soap is one of the most effective ways to 
prevent disease transmission, especially in children. Handwashing with soap at key times, however, is not widely practiced. As a leading marketer of bar and liquid hand soaps, Colgate is working with public health officials, academia, local schools and clinics to educate millions of children and their families about the benefits of handwashing with soap. Colgate’s “Clean Hands, Good Health” global handwashing program provides educational materials and sample products to schools and communities, and builds awareness through public service advertising and public relations campaigns.
 Colgate’s goal is to raise handwashing awar eness in over 50 million households 
by 2015. We are excited to have exceeded our goal, reaching over 62.5 million people in 2013 alone through media campaigns and advertising, educational programs in schools and in-store handwashing demonstrations.
19 of 54
People
Contributing in Times of Need
Colgate provides emergency financial aid, donates products and sponsors 
matching gift programs in times of natural disaster.
n After T yphoon Haiyan, Colgate together with employees, donated over 
$200,000 in funding and in-kind donations. Employees and their families in 
 the Philippines wer e safe and were able to assist in the relief effort. 
n After Hurricane Sandy in 2012, Colgate joined employees to donate over 
$260,000 in funding and $289,000 in in-kind donations. 
n In the 2013 holiday season, Colgate donated 20,000 kits containing oral car e 
and personal care products to families in need around the New York City area.
Helping Pets Find a Home
Through the Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love program, Colgate partners with animal shelters across the United States and provides Hill’s Science Diet pet food at a discount. Through this partnership, the company contributed pet food with a retail value of more than $7.5 million in 2013, which adds up to more than $275 million to nearly 1,000 shelters since the program’s inception in 2002. These donations have helped more than 7 million dogs and cats find their forever home. 
7 Million Dogs and Cats Adopted since 2002
20 of 54
People
Contributions
Colgate contributes both funding and products to a wide range of charities and 
community organizations around the world. Often, Colgate partners with retailers, consumers and our employees to raise funds. Driven by Colgate’s core value of Caring, and supported by the involvement of Colgate people, our Global Giving Program makes a difference in the communities we serve by supporting organizations that address health and educational disparities.
 Colgate’s giving priorities ar e creating educational opportunities, advancing 
health and well-being, and engaging Colgate people. 2013 Global 
Contributions
$35.7 Million
Spreading Smiles 
Across Europe
Campaigns across Europe  
in 2012 and 2013  
invited consumers to  
“donate” a smile online.  
For every smile photo  
uploaded, Colgate donated  
 to children’s charities.
Colgate Women’s GamesTom’s of Maine  
Goodness Grant
Tom’s of Maine donates 
10% of pr
ofits each 
year to nonprofit,  
community-based  
organizations. 
Since 1973, we have sponsored the Colgate Women’s Games, in which girls and 
women in elementary school through college and beyond compete in track and field events. The Games is the largest women’s indoor track and field series in the U.S. and helps young girls and women develop a strong sense of personal achievement and self-esteem. Colgate provides educational grants to about 40 winners each year. Since its start, the Games has produced more than 20 Olympians, hundreds of national champions and countless changed lives.
21 of 54
People
Colgate People Giving Back
Colgate provides opportunities for our people to volunteer in local communities 
throughout the year. As part of our 2015 goal to involve more Colgate volunteers  
in our community programs, we have created ways for Colgate people to volunteer 
with our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” (BSBF) program and other Colgate-  
sponsored activities, and we are building more programs each year. Colgate 
people are eager and enthusiastic volunteers. Here are just some examples  
from around the world.
The Caring Hearts program at Hill’s Pet Nutrition in Topeka, Kansas, links 
employees to more than 200 local agencies and their projects. Hill’s also holds a Spring and Fall Day of Caring each year, during which employees volunteer as teams to help improve the community, with jobs such as cleaning up summer camp sites and painting at local day care centers.In Latin American subsidiaries including Mexico and Brazil, Colgate people are trained to teach children in the local community through BSBF . Brazil employees are trained to be “Agentes do Sorrisos” or “Smile Agents.” 
Colgate people in South Africa celebrated Mandela Day in 2013 by making lunch for underprivileged children at a local school.Supporting Colgate’s partnership with W ater For People (see page 
36), Colgate people in Guatemala volunteered in communities that received clean water. Employees built a playground, fixed desks and brightened up the new water station with a colorful mural. Colgate volunteers also taught the BSBF and handwashing programs to  children in the community.Tom’s of Maine celebrates an annual Goodness Day when every employee can volunteer in the community. In 2013, the team planted vegetation and restored the lodge at the Mount Agementicus Conservation Region.  In June 2013, over 800 Colgate people across the U.S. rolled up their sleeves and contributed to local communities during the first annual Colgate Car es Day. 
V
olunteers gave their time to deliver meals to homebound seniors, paint and 
organize a local school, share the BSBF program, and assemble arts and crafts  kits for local children’s hospitals. 
22 of 54
Performance
Colgate continues to demonstrate outstanding financial performance year-on-year. But “Perfor -
mance” is more than just financial strength – it is our commitment to grow the business with inno -
vative, more sustainable products that make the lives of consumers healthier and more enjoyable. 
At a Glance 
$17.42 Billion
Worldwide sales 2013
58.9%
Gross profit  
margin fourth quarter 2013
48%
Improved sustainability 
profile in over  
48% of new products  
40%
Approximately 40%  
of our packaging  
materials globally come 
from recycled sources
13,150
active patents  
support our innovation
2/3
of the world’s  
households purchase 
Colgate pr
oducts23 of 54
Performance
20132012201120102009
$17,420$17,085$16,734$15,564$15,327Financial Strength
For the full year 2013, worldwide net sales were $17,420 million, up 2 percent 
versus full year 2012. Our market share in both toothpaste and manual tooth-brushes remains strong. Our global market share in mouthwash continues to grow, reaching a record high of 17 percent.
Net Sales ($ millions)
Consumer-driven Innovation
Every day, people around the world use Colgate products to care for themselves, their families and their pets. Two-thirds of the world’s households purchase Colgate products. Colgate delights shoppers with innovative products that meet their needs, exceed their expectations and add value to their lives.
 Colgate’s nine consumer innovation centers, situated close to consumers in 
different parts of the world, are focused on developing insight-driven innovation. We listen to consumers both as we develop products and when they are put on the shelves. Over 1,000 studies are conducted annually around the world to hear from consumers before our products are sold. We have built brand loyalty by maintaining a deep understanding of local tastes and habits across categories. Colgate investigates key consumer insights, unmet consumer needs and opportunities for performance improvement in existing products. Additional 2013 
business highlights can be 
found in Colgate’s 
2013 Annual Report. 
Based on consumer 
insights in China, Colgate 
launched the first ever 
tea-flavored mouthwash. 
Colgate Plax Tea mouth-
wash has also been highly 
successful in other Asian 
markets, Australia, Europe 
and South America.
In 2013 Forbes named 
Colgate one of the 
World’s Most Valuable 
Brands, Most Innovative 
Companies and 
 
25 Most Reputable  
Companies  
24 of 54
Performance
Engaging Customers
Colgate partners with hundreds of thousands of retail stores, large and small, to 
sell our products around the world. Treating all retail customers with fairness and integrity is a priority. Working closely with our customers to share expertise and grow category sales has long been a cornerstone of Colgate’s business strategy. To ensure continued success, Colgate tracks retailer satisfaction in 20 of our largest subsidiaries every two years. We use the details provided by the survey to strengthen our performance across key markets. 
 Colgate also partners with key customers to advance our mutual sustain-
ability goals. We often partner to engage consumers with programs such as our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” oral health education program, Operation Smile and Terracycle. We also regularly report to several retailers through product stewardship surveys. 
In Brazil, Colgate has partnered with Walmart on two successful “End-to-End” projects. Making changes to a shopper 
pack of toothpaste and soap reduced greenhouse gas emissions, plastic and fuel use. Improved efficiency brought greater 
speed-to-market, a win-win for both Colgate and Walmart. In-store displays also encouraged shoppers to recycle our 
products through the Terracyle program.  Partnering in Brazil25 of 54
Performance
Improving Product Sustainability
We are continuously working to develop products that have a reduced impact on 
the planet. Collaborative teams across the Colgate world are coming together to develop products with an improved sustainability profile that continue to meet and exceed consumer expectations. 
 As part of our 2011 to 2015 Sustainability Strategy , we have committed to 
increase the sustainability profile in all new products we produce and in the balance of our portfolio. We are embedding this goal across all categories. Each global category – Oral Care, Home Care, Personal Care and Hill’s Pet Nutrition—has specific goals built into the Technology Category Strategies. For example, Home Care has goals to improve ingredient biodegradability and to engage with suppliers on green chemistry. Within the Oral Care category, we have goals to evaluate novel materials and to expand our partnership with eco-innovator Terracycle. 
 In or der to measure progress toward our 2015 goal, Colgate began evaluating 
new products using a Product Sustainability Scorecard in 2012. Colgate engaged Pure Strategies, a leading sustainability consultant to validate our Product Sustainability Scorecard and 2013 results. Pure Strategies provided the following validation statement in regard to the Colgate Product Sustainability Scorecard: “Nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard could not be used to track progress on improving the sustainability profile of new products and the balance of their portfolio.” The scorecard rates products with 32 parameters across eight impact areas: Responsible Sourcing, Materials, Energy and Greenhouse Gases, Waste, Water, Ingredient Profile, Packaging and Social Impact. We improved the sustainability profile in over 48% of new products in 2013.
(1) Colgate is committed 
to both the American 
Cleaning Institute’s 
and the European 
International Association 
for Soaps, Detergents 
and Maintenance 
Product’s Charter for 
Sustainable Cleaning.
We improved the sustainability profile in over 48% of new products and the balance 
of our portfolio in 2013.(1)(1) The performance results are based 
on representative products from the product portfolio evaluated against comparable Colgate products across 
eight impact areas to characterize likely 
improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data. At the time of publi-cation of this report, data validation of the percentage determined to be “more sustainable” was still ongoing.
Scorecard Validation
  Colgate engaged 
Pure Strategies to 
validate our Product 
Sustainability Scorecard.
26 of 54
Performance
2013 Product Highlights
Softlan fabric softener 
in Asia has an improved preservative system. 
Ajax cleaner in Europe has an improved ingredient sustainability profile, is now concentrated, requires less energy for manufacturing, reduced greenhouse gas emissions during transport, and the bottle is made from up to 60% of recycled material.
Cold Power laundry detergent in the South Pacific is specially formulated to work 
in cold water. A “Wash Smarter” campaign and mobile app launched in 2013  
provided consumers with additional resource-saving tips.
Palmolive Antibacterial Foaming Hand Wash in the South Pacific contains the naturally-derived antibacterial ingredient lactic acid.   
In Latin America, we improved Colgate Luminous White Advanced toothpaste to provide consumers with a more efficacious whitening formula and reduced package weight. Bottles for Colgate Total Advanced Pro-Shield mouthwash in the U.S. are sourced domestically, reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with shipping long distances. Colgate Total mouthwash kills 99% of germs.
27 of 54
Performance
We improved the preservative 
system and removed microplastic beads in Irish Spring Deep Action 
Scrub in North America. We  
also reduced waste in the  
manufacturing process.Hill’s Ideal Balance Grain Free dry cat food requires less energy and water for manufacturing than its  predecessor.
Colgate continues strong sales of more sustainable product options introduced in the past few years, including Palmolive Antibacterial, with lactic acid; Palmolive eco+ automatic dishwasher detergent, which is phosphate free; Palmolive pure + clear, which has no unnecessary chemicals or heavy fragrances; the Sanex Zero% range, specifically developed to contain a reduced number of chemical ingredients; the Natura Verde line of Ajax, Palmolive, Softlan and Soupline in Europe, with natural ingredients and bottles containing recycled plastic; and Tom’s of Maine brand personal and oral care products, with natural ingredients. A change in manufacturing across the Colgate Total line in Europe reduced energy use, water use and waste in the manufacturing process.
Colgate Plax mouthwash in Latin America is alcohol free and has an improved ingredient sustainability profile and a clinically-proven germ benefit.New Suavitel Goodbye Ironing Complete formula in Latin America is a no-rinse fabric softener that also reduces drying time – saving consumers time, water and energy. 
2013 Product Highlights
28 of 54
Performance
Focus on Packaging
Colgate is committed to improving the sustainability profile of our packaging. Our 
2015 goal is to increase the amount of recycled content in our packages by 20 percent vs. 2010. Colgate’s packaging organization continually evaluates materials and processes that can improve the sustainability profile of our packages. We actively take steps to ensure the responsible design of our packages by using the minimum amount of packaging material while ensuring the package is designed to protect the product, be convenient and safe for consumer use, and maintain on-shelf presence. 
We removed PVC from the packaging of the Colgate 360 Total Advanced manual toothbrush in North America, reducing packaging waste by 17% and making the packaging fully recyclable.
In North America, a Colgate Total “unicarton” replaced “twin packs,” improving manufacturing and logistics efficiency and reducing packaging. Softlan Magic Moments fabric softener in Asia  is now concen-trated, increasing the number of wash loads per bottle and reduc-ing packaging waste.  We improved packaging for Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief in Latin America, removing an inner leaflet and reduc-ing overall packaging by 2.5 grams.     
Sard Wonder Brush laundry pre-spotter in the South Pacific uses less plastic compared with previous prewash stain-stick.       Recycled Content
 Approximately 
40%
of our packaging 
 
materials globally come 
from recycled sources.
We have achieved 
our goal to increase  
recycled content by 
20%
Policy on               
No Deforestation
We are taking steps to 
optimize the use of wood 
fiber in packaging, assess 
the risk of controversial 
sources of pulp and paper 
in our supply chain and  
obtain external verification 
for the supply in high-  
priority countries. See 
page 45 or Colgate’s 
Policy on No Deforestation 
for more information.  
29 of 54
Performance
Focus on Ingredients
Consumers trust Colgate products because of their reliability, quality and superior 
performance. Colgate’s robust Research and Development program is designed to provide effective and safe products.
 The decisions we make on ingr edients are based on a thorough evaluation of the 
latest scientific evidence. When we choose an ingredient — whether to contribute to the performance of a product or to keep it safe against microorganisms — it is first prescreened by a team of Colgate scientists. Every ingredient is assessed alone and within a formula to ensure that nothing unexpected will occur. Our ingredient review assesses not just what happens in our laboratories but also across a range of real-world conditions — during manufacturing, in transportation, at the store, in consumers’ homes, and after consumer use. 
 W e continuously monitor and evaluate the safety of our ingredients and we active -
ly engage with outside experts and resources to understand emerging science and deepen our knowledge. We seek the facts so that we can make the right decisions. Where we see opportunities regarding ingredients that are raising consumer ques -
tions, we substitute with other safe ingredients that provide the same or better bene -
fits without sacrificing quality. Through this ongoing effort, we no longer use, or are on our way to eliminating, some of the ingredients currently raising consumer questions. 
Ingredient Highlights
n W e comply with all aspects of the European Union’s REACH regulation 
(Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances). Currently, Colgate does not use any chemicals in its products classified as Substances of Very High Concern by REACH.
n W e disclose in the U.S. and Canada the ingredients of our products according 
to the “Consumer Product Ingredient Communication Initiative” (CPICI) of the American Cleaning Institute, the Consumer Specialty Products Association and the Canadian Consumer Specialty Products Association.
n On average, on a per centage-by-weight basis, over 88 percent of organic 
compounds used in our products are readily biodegradable in the environment.We eliminated  
parabens in Palmolive 
Men’s Deep Clean  
Bar Soap in Russia  
in 2013, and the  
packaging is now 
more easily recycled. 
In 2013, Colgate made commitments to eliminate formaldehyde donors, parabens, phthalates and microplastics from our products over the next two years. See our Policy on Ingredient Safety for more information. 
Ingredient Safety Policy30 of 54
Performance
Product Safety Testing
Colgate has a long-standing worldwide policy to minimize and to ultimately 
eliminate animal testing for all consumer products. Central to this commitment are our 30-year-long efforts to encourage the development of alternatives that are scientifically valid and can be accepted by safety regulators. We are a leader in promoting, encouraging and participating in the development, validation and acceptance of alternative non-animal testing methods worldwide, investing over $1 million annually on research with non-animal alternatives. We also work closely with worldwide regulatory agencies to examine how non-animal tests can be incorporated into their safety requirements for consumer products.
 Globally , there are circumstances when regulatory agencies require animal 
testing. In such limited instances, the tests are conducted only at external testing facilities that meet both government standards and the rigorous requirements established by Colgate with input from animal welfare groups. We look forward to a day when all necessary safety studies can be performed without the use of animals and will continue to work to make that day come sooner.
 Since 2011, Colgate has been r ecognized on the People for the Ethical 
Treatment of Animals (PETA) “Working for Regulatory Change” list to promote corporate activism in alternatives research. Colgate-Palmolive was the first company to meet PETA’s stringent requirements.
Colgate continues our commitment to finding and using alternative testing methods through support and involvement with 
the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing (EPAA) and the Institute for In Vitro Sciences (IIVS). 
We actively share our work to reduce animal use and develop alternatives, so that this information can help others in their 
search for ways to minimize animal use.
Partnering to Develop Alternatives31 of 54
Planet
Operating in today’s world requires an enhanced focus on conserving earth’s finite resources, 
addressing climate change and maintaining the well-being of our planet for generations to 
come. Colgate’s planet-related commitments cover our energy use, carbon emissions, water use and waste generation. We are also committed to sustainably built and run facilities. We are making progress in each of our planet goals, and working with partners and consumers to make “Planet” a priority.  
At a Glance 
16%
reduction in greenhouse  
gas emissions and 17% 
reduction in energy per ton 
of product manufactured 
in 2013 vs. 2005
32%
reduction in water use per 
ton of product manufactured 
in 2013 vs. 2005
17%
reduction in waste sent  
to landfill per ton of product 
manufactured vs. 2010 
7%
of our manufacturing  
capital invested in projects 
that protect the planet
60%
Over 60% of our 
manufacturing facilities 
have achieved U.S. EPA 
ENERGY STAR Challenge 
for Industry Recognition32 of 54
Planet
2005 to 2013 Manufacturing Carbon Emissions and Energy IntensityOur 2015 goal is to reduce the energy consumption and carbon emissions per unit of 
production associated with the manufacture of our products by 20%. We are on track for this reduction, with a 17.1% reduction in energy, and a 16.3% reduction in carbon emissions per unit of production in 2013 vs. 2005. 
Announcing Our New Climate Change Commitment
By 2020 we will reduce carbon emissions on an absolute basis by 25% compared to 2002, 
with a longer term goal of a 50% absolute reduction by 2050 compared to 2002. These goals are in line with 
the CDP and W
orld Wildlife Fund report – The 3% Solution – and will allow us to play our part in  
limiting global warming to 2°C, as recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
Reducing Energy in ColombiaReducing Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions
We believe businesses have a vital role to play in mitigating climate change, and 
we are committed to continuously improving our greenhouse gas governance and performance around this challenge.
Colgate has reported 
to CDP on our  
carbon emissions 
since 2004. In 2013 
we were named to  
the Carbon Disclosure 
Leadership Index.Colgate named a U.S. 
EPA ENERGY STAR 
Partner of the Year 
2014 for the 4th year in 
a row, and 61% of our 
manufacturing facilities 
have achieved U.S. EPA 
ENERGY STAR Challenge 
for Industry Recognition
kilograms of CO2 / ton of product155
150
145
140
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
kilowatt hours x 1000 / ton of productkilowatt hours x 1000 / ton of product
Carbon Emissions Intensity Energy Intensity    125130135140145150155
135130
1250.475
0.450
0.425
0.400
0.375
0.350
0.3250.3300000.3541670.3783330.4025000.4266670.4508330.475000
33 of 54
Planet
Renewable Energy
We are continuing to evaluate alternative energy and renewable energy sources 
such as solar, fuel cells, green power and cogeneration for feasibility and applicability in various locations worldwide. We have installed on-site renewable energy in the form of solar panels in Mexico and Italy, and use solar water heating at many sites.
 In 2014, Colgate plans to join the U.S. EP A’s Green Power Partnership to better 
understand how verified market-based renewable solutions can complement our main climate change strategy of energy efficiency everywhere.
Moving Products to Consumers
In 2013, Colgate continued an aggressive initiative to increase the reporting and analysis of CO
2 associated with the distribution of our products (logistics). In 2013, 
we estimated the carbon impact for approximately 85 percent of the movement of our finished goods. In both the U.S. and Europe, we have reduced our logistics CO
2 emissions by over 10 percent per ton of finished goods moved. We are also 
working to increase the amount of intermodal transportation — by which goods are shipped in an intermodal container or vehicle that can move through different modes of transportation, such as by sea and rail. When compared with using trucks and aircraft, intermodal transportation reduces greenhouse gas emissions and reduces cost. In the U.S.,  
Colgate-Palmolive and 
Hill’s Pet Nutrition  
are U.S. EPA SmartWay 
Transport Partners.
50x
Upstream emissions including sourcing of materials and services
10x 
 Use and disposal of products1x 
 Emissions from Colgate manufacturing
3x
Downstream distribution of products
Illustration of the footprint of a consumer brushing his or her teeth with toothpaste and a toothbrush. Graphic shows a relative breakdown. “3x” is three times as 
large as “1x,” etc.
Oral Care Carbon Footprint Estimated BreakdownOur Oral Care Carbon Footprint
In order to better understand the life-cycle carbon footprint across our global Oral Care product category, we have 
developed an innovative approach to estimating “Scope 3,” or indirect emissions that result from our business, but arise from sources controlled by others. We estimated that over 75 percent of our carbon footprint comes from the materials we purchase from suppliers. Currently, we are focusing on the most carbon-intensive raw materials and working with key suppliers to assess the greatest opportunities for reduction. 34 of 54
Planet
Water Conservation, Access and Awareness
Water is one of life’s most basic needs, and it is essential for business growth as 
well. Water is an ingredient in many Colgate products and is required in almost every phase of the product life cycle: from sourcing raw materials, to producing products, to consumer use of products. Clean water is also vital to the communi-ties we serve and is an increasingly scarce resource in some regions of the world. Colgate’s 2015 goal is to reduce the water consumed per unit of production in the manufacture of our products by 40 percent vs. 2005. We are on track, with a 32.4 percent reduction as of 2013.
Our water stewardship program at our Mission Hills, Mexico, facility has been assessed as best-in-class for water 
management, with practices in place to reduce water use and treat wastewater for reuse. 
Reducing Water Use in Mexico1.01.11.21.31.5
1.41.6
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005cubic meters / ton of product
2005 to 2013 Manufacturing Water Usage Intensity*
*Not including water in products35 of 54
Planet
2013 Water Highlights
In 2013, Colgate’s Global Manufacturing Water Reduction Team delivered several 
exciting new improvement initiatives. The team began developing a standard Water Balance Tool for our facilities to identify and measure complex water flows throughout our manufacturing processes. This tool will assist sites in prioritizing water reduction opportunities. Additionally, the team helped develop a new Colgate Water Stewardship standard that broadens facility water programs to include water conservation, water risk assessments and technical engineering applications that help reduce water. The standard is being launched globally in 2014, supported with an e-Learning training course.
 As a way to continuously assess the risks associated with global water 
issues, Colgate has developed a strategy to prioritize and act on water risk issues in all geographies. For several years this has included both geographical and local evaluations of risks and opportunities. Colgate uses the Global Water Tool from the World Business Council for Sustainable Development to evaluate water stress conditions (both current and predicted) in geographies where we have manufacturing sites and key suppliers. We have also used the Global Environmental Management Initiative (GEMI) water management risk assessment questionnaire to help manufacturing sites in water-stressed areas evaluate their potential water risks related to water supply, reliability, economics, compliance and community relations. Additionally, we have engaged experts to undertake targeted water risk assessments at selected locations in Mexico and India. Finally, we will begin using the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct tool to assess a variety of water-related risks, including water stress, drought and flood.
 Further details of Colgate’s risk management r elated to both climate change 
and water availability can be found in our response to CDP’s annual climate change and water surveys.
In 2012, Colgate partnered with the Rutgers University Business School and 
its Supply Chain Management Program to develop a “True” Cost of Water 
Toolkit. This manufacturing-based toolkit is meant to give visibility to many of the hidden costs related to water usage, such as energy, material and treatment costs, thus giving a truer representation of both the cost of using water and the financial benefits of reducing water. 
 In 2013, the “True” Cost of W ater tool was launched within Colgate 
with broad participation from our global manufacturing sites. The results indicated an average “true” cost of water that was 2.5 times more than the purchase cost alone. This information is now being used to provide more accurate savings calculations associated with water reduction projects. In 2014, we are enhancing the toolkit to provide sites the ability to easily and consistently track their water recycling and reuse rates.We have avoided enough 
water consumption 
 to fill 5,700 Olympic-sized 
swimming pools
Uncovering the “True” Cost of Water36 of 54
Planet
Providing Access to Water
One of Colgate’s 2011 to 2015 Sustainability Strategy goals is to work with local 
and global organizations to help promote access to clean water. To accomplish our goal, we launched our partnership with Water For People in 2013. Through Colgate’s sponsorship, Water For People reached over 10,000 people with water, sanitation systems and health and hygiene education in both India and Guatemala. Colgate also delivered our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” (BSBF) oral health and handwashing education programs in some of the schools that received clean water. 
 Colgate will continue our partnership with W ater For People in 2014 to support 
their goal of 100 percent drinking water coverage in 30 districts across ten countries by 2018. Colgate will expand our partnership to sponsor projects in Guatemala, Peru and India. 
Colgate employees visited schools that received clean water through the collaboration 
with Water For People. Together they built a playground, fixed desks and brightened 
up a new water station with a colorful mural. Colgate volunteers also taught the “Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures” oral care education and handwashing programs to children.
Partnering with Water For People in GuatemalaColgate will continue  
our sponsorship  
of “Play Pumps” in  
South Africa, which  
provide an opportunity  
for children to play  
and help villages obtain 
clean water from wells. 
Colgate now sponsors  
25 pumps. 
37 of 54
Planet
Colgate partners with 
eco-innovator Terracycle 
in the U.S., Mexico, Brazil, 
Germany, Switzerland, 
Austria and Argentina. 
Terracycle “upcycles”  
Colgate packaging 
collected at schools, 
stores and other locations 
into new and affordable 
eco-friendly products, 
while generating revenue 
for schools and charities.Reaching Consumers with Conservation Messaging
We are working to make products that require less water or require cold water vs. 
hot (thus using less energy and generating fewer emissions), including Suavitel No-Rinse Fabric Softener in Latin America, Palmolive Cold Power dish detergent in Europe, and Cold Power laundry detergent in Australia. 
 As many of our consumer products r equire water for use, consumers have a 
powerful role to play in helping the environment as they use our products, through actions such as turning off the tap while brushing their teeth and washing their hands, and taking shorter showers. In order to help consumers in this effort, Colgate committed to promote water conservation awareness among over two bil-lion consumers. So far, we have reached 250 million people with reminders on our packaging, in-store campaigns, and through our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” oral health and our handwashing awareness programs. 
Reducing Waste
Colgate has a 2015 target to reduce waste sent to landfills from our operations by 15 percent per unit of production. So far, we have exceeded our target, reducing waste by 17 percent in the past three years. Our sites have been working on this initiative for many years. We have developed standardized Landfill Waste Score-cards for all of our sites to help increase the visibility and understanding of our waste reduction opportunities. Additionally, we recently developed and piloted a third-party assurance program where independent auditor Bureau Veritas visited several Colgate manufacturing sites and subsequently validated our “zer o” landfill 
waste definition and management process.Tom’s of Maine partnered 
with grocery chain Han-
naford in the U.S. during 
Earth Day to encourage 
consumers to save water.  
Colgate piloted a “Trash to Treasure” event at our Cambridge, Ohio, plant in 2013 to 
better understand the types of trash produced at the site and identify opportunities to reduce waste. Everyone rolled up their sleeves to dig through the garbage and identify what could be recycled or reused. The plant will use the findings to further reduce waste in 2014, as Colgate rolls out the “Trash to Treasure” program at other sites this year.
“Trash to Treasure” in the U.S.
Turn   the  water
oﬀ  when  you   brush
to save up to 2,800
gallons of water annually.
Waste Progress
Total  W aste
Waste  Recycled/
Generated  Reused
Year  (MT x 1000)  (MT x 1000)
2010  126.0  75.7
2011  129.3  80.0
2012  128.7  81.5
2013  136.5  92.2
Reduced waste sent to 
landfill per ton of product by
17% 
since 2010.38 of 54
Planet
Commitment to Sustainable Buildings
Colgate has eight Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certified 
facilities around the world and is currently working on several additional LEED construction projects in the U.S., Latin America, Asia and Europe. LEED is an internationally recognized green building certification system. Not only do the buildings reduce Colgate’s environmental impact, but the new site locations also reduce the Company’s overall exposure to water and climate change related issues. 
 Additionally, 61 per cent of Colgate’s manufacturing sites have achieved 
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry recognition for improving energy efficiency by at least 10 percent within five years.
  “LEED” and related logos are trademarks owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and are used by permission
Emporia,
Kansas
Morristown,
TennesseeSwidnica, 
PolandPiscataway
, 
New Jersey
Sanxiao, 
China
Hustopece, 
 
Czech RepublicBangpakong,
Thailand My Phuoc,
Vietnam
Commitment to Sustainable Buildings39 of 54
Planet
Environmental Management
It is Colgate’s worldwide policy to manufacture and market our products and 
operate our facilities so that we conform to, and often exceed, applicable environmental, health and safety rules and regulations. Our Environmental, Occuptional Health and Safety (EOHS) standards, including the Management Systems Standard, define environmental performance expectations for Colgate facilities. All Colgate facilities have a fully implemented EOHS Management System, covering a wide range of categories, including energy, water and waste management. Colgate’s manufacturing environmental performance goals are included in our Global Supply Chain annual objectives, which are cascaded to site-level facility managers, energy managers and EOHS managers.
 To ensure compliance with Colgate standards, Colgate audits all of our 
manufacturing facilities, owned and operated warehouses, research and technology centers and large office locations under management control. Audits are performed by a team of Colgate EOHS professionals from locations independent of the specific site being audited. (See page 43 for mor e information 
on supplier environmental performance).
Managing Risk
Prudent environmental risk management is key to the well-being of the Company and the delivery of our strategic objectives. We utilize an Enterprise Risk Management Program to identify, assess, prioritize and manage risks. These risks are evaluated from a multidimensional perspective and consider probability, severity and adequacy of mitigation. The Enterprise Risk Management Committee is sponsored by the Chairman, President and CEO of the Company and includes representation from key internal business leaders. Risks are collectively identified across the organization and are classified within the Strategic, Financial, Operational, Information Technology, Legal & Compliance and Emerging Risk categories. Each risk category is assigned an owner who is also a member of the Enterprise Risk Management Committee and who is ultimately accountable for successfully managing the identified risk. Sustainability-related risks are represented across several risk categories.
 Further detail of our risk management strategies related to both climate change 
and water availability can be found in our response to CDP’s annual climate change and water surveys.Local Recognition
Colgate sites around
the world have
been recognized by
organizations in their 
local communities for 
their industry-leading  
environmental
management:
Vietnam
Colgate’s Ho Chi Minh  
Plant received the  
Green Business Award 
from the People’s 
Committee of Ho Chi 
Minh City, Saigon Giai 
Phong Newspaper, and 
Natural Resour
ces and  
the Environment  
Department.
U.S.
Our Morristown, TN 
facility was recognized as 
the Tennessee Recycling 
Coalition’s 2012 Business 
Recycler of the Year  
for implementing key 
recycling initiatives and 
establishing external 
partnerships.
Mexico
The Reforestamos  
México A.C., a civil  
association, recognized 
our Mission Hill plant and  
Colgate-Palmolive Mexico 
for their contribution 
to Mexican forests 
and environmental 
protection measures. 40 of 54
Colgate has been active in emerging markets for over 75 years, first in Latin Amer -
ica, then Asia, followed by Africa and Eastern Europe. Our business operations in 
emerging markets create value for people all over the globe by providing quality products at an affordable price, as well as employment and career opportunities.
Succeeding in Emerging Markets 
Colgate has built brand loyalty in emerging markets by maintaining a deep under -
standing of local tastes and habits across all of our categories. We investigate key consumer insights, unmet consumer needs and opportunities for performance improvement with existing products. Our nine consumer innovation centers across the globe develop insight-driven innovation. Six innovation centers are focused on emerging-market consumers — in Mexico for Latin America (with a branch in Brazil), in Russia for Eastern Europe, and in India, Thailand and China for Asia.
Reducing Cavities 
by Half
Colgate’s new Maximum 
Cavity Protection tooth-
paste with Sugar Acid 
Neutralizers, introduced 
last year in Brazil and 
Turkey, reduces early 
tooth decay by half 
when compared with 
toothpaste with fluoride. 
Integrating  
Sustainability
Colgate people in the 
Andina region of Latin 
America implemented 
a plan to refurbish and 
extend the life of wooden 
shipping pallets, reducing 
costs for the Company 
and saving trees. 
52%
of 
Colgate’s total          
revenue comes from 
emerging markets 
In 2013, Colgate’s  
organic sales in emerging 
markets grew a robust  
10.5%
Sustainability
Sustainable growth is an important part of our strategy in emerging markets. Each of the Colgate divisions, including Latin America, Asia, and Africa/Eurasia has established annual action plans to implement our Sustainability Strategy and report on progress.
 When we manufacture in emer ging market countries, all operations are required 
to conform to, and often exceed, applicable environmental, health and safety rules and regulations. (See page 39 for more information on Colgate’s Environmental Management policies. See page 43 for information on how we are partnering with our suppliers on sustainability – in emerging markets and worldwide).Colgate’s brand penetration is 86% in India, higher than any other global brand.
Spotlight on...Emerging Markets41 of 54
Spotlight on...Emerging Markets
Improving Distribution in CameroonDeveloping Colgate People 
Colgate practices ensure that knowledge, skills and technology are shared 
throughout the world. Opportunities for employees to gain a breadth of experience include short- and long-term assignment opportunities in different geographies, and cross-functional swaps for employees at the subsidiary level to develop and transfer knowledge and expertise. Colgate’s intent is to recruit the local population into Colgate operations and leadership in all markets – only a small percentage of employees in emerging markets are expatriates.
Access to Colgate Products 
Price guidance for Colgate products is set globally at the corporate level; however, local markets have significant flexibility to make adjustments based on conditions in individual countries. Colgate makes products more affordable in emerging markets with smaller sizes, refill packs and value options. Colgate also works for strong penetration and wide distribution, so that more consumers have access to Colgate products. Offerings are customized to best reach consumers within their socioeconomic level, taking into account available household income and specific consumer needs. We track local purchasing power of low-income consumers in all emerging market countries to ensure affordability of our products. 
 In some markets, building rural distribution is challenging. W e are working to 
develop innovative models and distribution networks to reach more consumers. For example, in India, a Colgate team developed a rural model with a network of distributors whose salespeople visited village outlets on motorbikes, taking orders on hand-held devices and then delivering stock the next day. With this model, over 1,640 new villages and 32,000 stores were brought under Colgate’s direct distribution and now have access to Colgate products.
Training in  
Emerging Markets
Colgate partners with 
the China European 
International Business 
School (CEIBS) to 
implement a leadership 
development program 
for Colgate leaders.
A Colgate team in Cameroon recognized an opportunity to improve coverage and customer service levels in smaller towns 
by using “tricycles,” branded motorcycles able to distribute large quantities of products in the retail environments. The new 
model increased deliveries per week by 500% and increased sales by 43%. 42 of 54
Spotlight on...Emerging Markets
Supporting Local Communities
By establishing operations in emerging markets early, Colgate has contributed 
to local economies and communities and led ongoing programs to provide oral care and hygiene education, including reaching millions of children and their families through our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” oral health program and handwashing education.
In South Africa, Colgate sponsors the Phelophepa Train, a mobile hospital that provides healthcare in communities where medical services and infrastructure are unavailable.Colgate launched a partnership with Water For People in 2013 to reach over 10,000 people in India and Guatemala with access to clean water and health and hygiene education. Colgate also taught children about oral health care and handwashing in the schools that received clean water. We  will continue our partnership in 2014.In Senegal and Cameroon, we are fighting the spread of cholera with Pharmapur soap and La Croix bleach. Colgate partnered with local health authorities and followed Red Cross guidelines to educate consumers about purifying water and effective handwashing. Colgate reached more than 78,000 people in 2013 alone, and in 2014 we will be expanding the program to more African countries.
43 of 54
Supplier Diversity 
Awards
At our annual 
Supplier Diversity Awards 
ceremony, we celebrate 
the outstanding 
performance of 
diverse suppliers and 
Colgate advocates.Colgate works with thousands of suppliers worldwide who provide the goods 
and services required to produce and market our products. Often, much of the environmental impact of our products comes further upstream in our supply chain. Therefore, we work closely with our suppliers, as described below.
Supply Chain Integrity 
Colgate people are committed to the highest standards of integrity and full conformance with the Company’s Code of Conduct. It is our goal to ensure that our relationships with our supplier partners reflect and support the same high ethical standards. 
 Colgate’s Enhanced Supplier Management pr ogram monitors the quality and 
service of our suppliers in order to maintain the integrity and quality of Colgate products around the world. A key element of the program is a comprehensive audit of suppliers’ facilities and operations. The program is used both for existing suppliers and for qualification of new suppliers.
 Colgate’s Supplier Code of Conduct is provided to suppliers, and Colgate’s 
contracts and purchase orders require suppliers to abide by the Code’s standards, including applicable labor and equal employment laws, as well as Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety regulations, and to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Anti-Bribery Policy . The Company’s Supplier Code of Conduct sets the 
Company’s expectations for suppliers in a number of critical areas, including labor practices, environment, health and safety, human rights, ethical dealings and management systems. The Supplier Code of Conduct is modeled on International Labor Organization (ILO) standards. 
 Additionally, Colgate’ s Supplier Responsible Sourcing Standard outlines the 
expectations of our suppliers in the areas of labor practices, human rights, health and safety, environmental management, quality and business integrity. This document supplements our Supplier Code of Conduct, sets minimum auditable expectations, and explains our Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment (SRSA) program.
Encouraging Supplier Diversity
Colgate works with selected diverse suppliers in North America to build their business capabilities, improve their ability to respond to requests for proposals 
and their under  standing of the business requir ements of corporate customers. 
Our Supplier Diversity team in the U.S. encourages increased and expanded business relationships with minority-owned and women-owned businesses, developing mutually beneficial supply relationships. Colgate also participates as a member of the National Minority Supplier Development Council, Women’s 
Business Enterprise National Council and the City of New York Corpo  rate Alliance 
program in mentoring women-owned and diverse-owned suppliers. One of our key priorities has been the execution of Supplier Days, when we invite suppliers to Colgate for an exchange of information on capabilities and opportunities.Key Supplier 
Policies
n Supplier Code 
of Conduct
n FCPA and Anti-Bribery 
Policy
Spotlight on...Suppliers44 of 54
Spotlight on...Suppliers
2015 Goal
70%
of suppliers responding  
to the CDP Supply Chain 
Partnership  
Survey will set an  
energy reduction target.
So far, 57%  
have set a target. 2015 Goal
70%
of Colgate’s suppliers  
in at-risk industries,  
geographies or  
environments will undergo 
a responsible sourcing 
self-assessment and/or 
third-party audit.Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessments 
A number of programs and tools help ensure that our suppliers are operating 
responsibly. Through Colgate’s Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment Program, we use an industry-standard self-assessment questionnaire focused on labor practices, health and safety, environmental management and business practices to assess suppliers. When suppliers are assessed as high risk, we perform third-party audits of their facilities. We are including this assessment program as part of our supplier qualification process. 
 Colgate is also a member of SEDEX, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, which 
is the largest collaborative platform for sharing ethical supply chain data, as well as AIM-PROGRESS, a global industry forum to promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. Through these platforms, suppliers share assessment and audit data with other manufacturing companies that often share the same suppliers, enabling us to gain information more efficiently and relieving the burden of “audit fatigue” on suppliers. 
 We have also participated in capacity building sessions through the 
AIM-PROGRESS forum that are designed to improve suppliers’ social and environmental performance. The sessions explain the responsible sourcing assessment process and prepare suppliers for assessments and audits of their facilities. We have participated in events in Latin America and North America. In addition, Colgate conducts similar supplier responsible sourcing training events for our suppliers.
Engaging Suppliers on Climate and the Environment 
In addition to our efforts to decrease greenhouse gas emissions associated with our own operations, we have also participated in CDP’s Supply Chain Leadership Collaboration Project since its inception in 2008, increasing the scope of suppliers each year. By working with this program, Colgate gathers data to obtain a better understanding of our overall environmental footprint. 
n	In 2013, 17 percent more of our largest suppliers reported through the CDP 
 Supply Chain survey than in 2012.
n	Our suppliers’ CDP disclosure scores, including public disclosures, significantly 
 exceeded global averages. 
n	57 percent of our suppliers responding through the CDP Supply Chain survey 
 have set an energy r eduction target. 
n	In 2014, Colgate has joined as a CDP Supply Chain water member to invite 
 strategic suppliers to report on water management.
n	We encourage suppliers with operations in the U.S. to join the U.S. EPA 
 ENERGY STAR pr ogram as a partner company. 
n	We also have a continuous improvement program involving suppliers around 
the world called “Manos a la Obra.” With this program, we r eview opportunities 
to help suppliers improve their overall competitiveness.
45 of 54
Spotlight on...Suppliers
Pulp and Paper  
Colgate will: 
n	Optimize the use of wood fiber, recycled content 
 and alternative fibers
n	Perform risk assessments to assure low risk of 
controversial sources of fiber contributing to 
 deforestation in the supply chain
n	Obtain verification that materials from high-priority 
countries are of low risk of coming fr om controversial 
sources contributing to deforestation “Controversial sources” of fiber are defined as:
n	Illegally harvested wood
n	Wood harvested in violation of human or civil rights
n	Wood harvested from forests in which high 
environmental, ecosystem and cultural values 
 are threatened by management activities
n	Wood harvested from forests containing protected 
and endangered species, including r equirements of 
CITES (Convention on International T rade in 
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora), 
where applicable
n	Wood harvested from areas where significant 
conversion of forests and other wooded ecosystems
to plantations or to non-forest ar eas took place after
December 31, 2010
Colgate’s Policy on No Deforestation
We recently published our Policy on No Deforestation. The full policy is available on our 
website at Colgate.com/Sustainability. Here are some key highlights:
 It is estimated that over the past 50 years, about half of the world’s original for ests have been lost. This has 
led not just to biodiversity loss and social instability, but also furthered climate change. Deforestation of High 
Conservation Value and High Carbon Stock forests such as tropical rainforests and peatlands has been especially devastating to endangered animal species, and has led to significant release of carbon emissions.
 We share a vision with concerned stakeholders for a future without deforestation. As a start on this journey, 
Colgate has joined the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) in pledging to mobilize resources to help achieve zero net deforestation by 2020. Given Colgate’s product mix and our formulas, this commitment is most relevant for four major forest commodities: pulp and paper; palm oil and derivatives; soy and soy oil; and beef tallow. 46 of 54
Spotlight on...Suppliers
Palm Oil and Derivatives
As the next step on our journey toward sustainable 
palm oil, we will: 
n	Work with suppliers to identify potential social 
or environmental risk in our supply chain
n	Achieve full traceability of our palm oil supply 
chain back to the plantation by 2015
n	Where possible, increase our purchase of physical  
Certified Sustainable Palm Oil and Palm Kernel 
Oil each year
n	Continue to purchase GreenPalm Certificates to  
cover the remaining per centage of our requirements,  
gradually phasing out the need for the purchase  
each year 
n	Work with suppliers who can guarantee a “formal 
free prior and informed consent (FPIC)” from 
indigenous people and local communities potentially 
impacted by new plantation development
n	Work with suppliers who respect and comply 
with human and labor rights, as in all areas of 
our business
Further, we will require additional independent verification that the palm oil supply to Colgate does not come from areas where:
n	High Carbon Stocks (HCS) and High Conservation 
Value (HCV) forests were deforested
n	Fire was used for clearance
n	Peat lands (regardless of depth) were developed 
into plantations or drained. We will also r equire best 
management practices for existing plantations on 
peat and, where feasible, peat r estoration.Soy
We will: 
n	Join and support the Roundtable on 
Responsible Soy
n	Support efforts such as the Soy Moratorium that  
help minimize deforestation fr om soy expansion 
and increase transparency in the soy sector 
n	Map our soy usage and geography of supply
n	Work with our suppliers in Brazil and any other 
high-risk areas to assess the availability of soy that 
does not contribute to deforestation, such as soy 
certified by the Roundtable on Responsible Soy, and 
will increase our purchase from these suppliers
n	By 2017 we will procure soy and soy derivatives that 
are not linked to deforestation, verifying this through 
independent third-party verification and monitoring
Tallow
We will: 
n	Collaborate with industry and stakeholder groups 
such as the Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef 
to work toward zer o deforestation in this area
n	By 2017, require all applicable suppliers to be in 
compliance with the “Minimum Criteria for Industrial 
Scale Cattle Operations in the Brazilian Amazon 
Biome” set in 2009
See Colgate’s Policy on No Deforestation on 
Colgate.com/Sustainability for the full policy.47 of 54
AIM-PROGRESS — Colgate is a member of AIM- PROGRESS, a global industry 
forum to pro  mote r esponsible sourcing practices and sustainable production sys -
tems. It is a global initiative supported and sponsored by the European Brands As-
sociation in Europe and the Grocery Manufacturers Association in North America.
American Cleaning Institute (ACI)  — Colgate provides energy and greenhouse gas  
emissions data to support ACI’s sustainability reports. Colgate has signed on to 
the American Cleaning Institute’s Charter for Sustainable Cleaning, which requires companies to have systems in place for continual assessment, review and im-provement of sustainability performance, including raw material selection, resource use, and occupational health and safety, at every stage of the product lifecycle. 
American Dental Association (ADA) — Colgate is proud to partner with the ADA 
and the “Give Kids a Smile” program. Since 2007, Colgate has been the exclu-sive consumer sponsor of Give Kids a Smile, donating 300,000 toothbrushes and toothpaste tubes every year. Colgate provides our “Bright Smiles Bright Futures” dental vans to reach children in need with education, oral health screenings and, in many cases, preventative treatment. 
American Institute for Packaging and the Environment (AMERIPEN)  — Colgate 
joined with other companies in 2011 to found this organization, which is focused 
on coordinating the industry’s environmental packaging efforts.
CDP  — Colgate has reported our carbon emissions to CDP (formerly Carbon 
Disclosure Project) since 2004. We now disclose data to CDP Climate Change, 
CDP Water and CDP Forests, and survey our suppliers through CDP Supply Chain.
Consumer Goods Forum  — Colgate’s Chairman and CEO is on the Board of 
Directors of the Consumer Goods Forum; we support it’s collective commitments 
related to sustainability and climate change – including the effort to help achieve zero net deforestation by 2020.
Environmental Defense Fund Climate Corps —  Colgate and Tom’s of Maine each 
hosted a Climate Corps fellows in 2013 to help identify energy and carbon 
reduction opportunities related to energy efficiency. Colgate will again host a fellow in 2014. 
Global Child Dental Fund
  — Colgate is a founding and principal sponsor of this 
group, which builds on the achievements of the Global Child Dental Health Task-
force. We established this group in partnership with the World Health Organization with the goal of eradicating dental cavities in children globally by 2026.
Another important element of Colgate’s sustainability strategy is our use of external partnerships 
to complement our strong internal capability. Colgate has many such partnerships with a broad 
array of organizations, including suppliers, research institutions, universities, industry and non-
profit organizations. Notably, we have developed key partnerships with innovative ingredient 
suppliers and leaders in scientific research including the Forsyth Institute and DuPont. Here are just some of Colgate’s sustainability partners:Spotlight on...Partnerships48 of 54
Spotlight on...Partnerships
Greenpeace —  Colgate consulted with Greenpeace to develop our Policy on 
No Deforestation, published in 2014. 
International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Products (AISE)  
— Colgate is an active member of AISE and we voluntarily adhere to the AISE 
Charter for Sustainable Cleaning.
National Dental Association — Colgate’s commitment to improve children’s oral 
health in the community includes a long-term partnership with the National Dental Association (NDA), the world’s largest minority oral health association.
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)  — Colgate is a member of this group, 
which is working on solutions for the use and growth of sustainable palm oil.Starlight Children’s Foundation  — For more than 20 years, Colgate and Starlight 
Childr
en’s Foundation have worked together to brighten the lives of seriously ill 
children and their families.The Sustainability Consortium  — Colgate is an active member of the Home and 
Personal Care Sector of the Sustainability Consortium, which is committed to 
improving product sustainability. Colgate is also on the Corporate Advisory Council of this group.
United Way — Colgate partners with United Way on our Annual Giving Campaign 
for employees in several U.S. locations. 
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR — Colgate is an active partner of the EPA’s industrial 
sector and has been named an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for four years in a row. Additionally, 61 percent of Colgate’s manufacturing sites have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry recognition.
U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC)  — Colgate has been a member company 
of the USGBC since 2007. Colgate is also a Charter Member of the USGBC LEED 
Manufacturing User Group: Industrial Facilities, which actively engages in the ad-vancement of green building practices for manufacturing sites.
Terracycle  — Over two million people around the world are collecting used 
Colgate packaging to be made into new products by Terracycle. To date, Colgate 
partners with Terracycle in the U.S., Mexico, Brazil, Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Argentina. 
Walden Asset Management— Colgate consulted with Walden Asset Management 
to develop our new climate change commitments and our 2015 to 2020 Strategy.Water For People  — Colgate launched our partnership with Water For People in 
2013. Through Colgate’s sponsorship, Water For People reached over 10,000 
people with new clean, drinkable water, sanitation systems and health and hygiene education in both India and Guatemala. Colgate also delivered our “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” (BSBF) oral health and handwashing education programs in the schools that received clean water.
49 of 54
People
n	Encouraging and 
joining in on healthier 
living for Colgate People and 
their families in order to r educe 
employee health risks by 
15% and health costs by 5% 
by 2015
n	Continuing to invest in the 
communities where we live 
and work to reach our goal of 
contributing $300 million to 
communities by 2015. This 
includes funding, volunteerism, 
and working together to 
improve the lives of under-
 served people and communi-
 ties near where we live 
 and work.
n	Sustaining enthusiasm and 
commitment in the midst 
of challenging economic  
and social changePerformance
n	Integrating sustain-
 ability early in our 
product development process 
to accelerate improvements in 
product sustainability
n Continuing to seek ingredients 
that have a more sustainable 
profile and meet or exceed 
consumer expectations
n Increasing the recyclability 
and recycled content of our 
 packaging
n Continuing to build relation-
 ships with suppliers,  
customers, consumers and 
other key stakeholders in order 
to learn from each other and 
work together to help build a 
more sustainable worldPlanet
n	Engaging in market-
 based renewable energy 
solutions while continuing 
to reduce our own carbon 
 footprint
n	Promoting water conservation
awareness among over 
two billion consumers, 
including launching our new 
“Save Water” logo and 
 communications
n	Helping others to bring clean 
 water, oral care and hand-
 washing awareness to their 
communities, thereby 
 improving their overall health
n	Engaging our upstream 
supply chain to reduce ener gy, 
greenhouse gas emissions 
and waste associated with the 
ingredients we purchase
n	Engaging a complex forest 
commodity supply chain to 
meet the goals outlined in our 
Policy on No Deforestation Colgate people everywhere should be proud of our progress. We have accomplished a great deal 
in our sustainability journey, but there is still more to do. Continuing to meet our goals for 2015 and beyond will require enhanced focus and the continued enthusiasm and commitment of Colgate people around the world. Here are some of the areas that remain for us to focus on in order to meet or exceed our strategic goals: 
We are confident that with the continued efforts of Colgate people and our partners, and a sharp focus on integrating sustainability into the business and meeting our goals, we will continue “Giving the World Reasons to Smile” for years to come. Continuing Our Journey50 of 54
People  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013
Average number of 
 employees  37,700  36,600  36,000  35,800  34,700  36,000  36,600  38,100  39,200  38,600  37,700  37,400
Total recordable rate1 1.06 0.92 0.79 0.72 0.74 0.57 0.46 0.49 0.49 0.47 0.40 0.38
Lost workday case rate2 0.40 0.34 0.24 0.19 0.23 0.19 0.12 0.12 0.12 0.11 0.08 0.10
Safety notices of violation3 2 0 1 1 0 0 5 2 0 2 0 3
Safety fines paid ($)4 12,000  0 5,245  300 0 0 16,899  7,800  0 4,032  0 250
% Minority officials and  
   managers (U.S. EEOC data)  n/a n/a n/a  24.6 24.6 24.9 27.2 27.2 28.9 32.11  31.0 31.0
% Minorities in workforce 
(U.S. EEOC data)   n/a n/a n/a  27.9 28.9 28.6 29.5 29.0 28.8 32.03  30.0 30.0
% Women officials 
 and managers  n/a n/a n/a   29.3 30.6 32.0 32.9 36.2 36.6 38.18  33.0 34.0
% Women in workforce  n/a n/a n/a  34.0 36.1 37.0 38.9 40.7 40.7 39.37  39.0 39.0
Performance  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013
 Global Sales ($MM)  9,294  9,903  10,584  11,397  12,238  13,790  15,330  15,327  15,564  16,734  17,085  17,420
Global charitable  
contributions — cash 
 ($MM)5 n/a n/a 7.010  7.329  7.059  8.307  9.678  20.941  17.809  17.60  32.0 25.31
Global charitable  
contributions — in-kind
 ($MM)6 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 26.334  21.85  20.05  32.0 10.38
Planet  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013
Energy use efficiency 
(kWh x 1000/ton  
of product)7 0.511  0.511  0.481  0.458  0.431  0.422  0.415  0.409  0.411  0.396  0.390  0.379
Water use efficiency 
 (m3/ton of product)  1.96 1.78 1.63 1.51 1.33 1.28 1.22 1.16 1.09 1.06 1.06 1.02
 CO2 emissons 
(metric tons x 1000)7 729 734 706 699 693 689 659 647 664 661 660 664
Wastewater CODs 
(kg/ton of product)7 3.75 3.38 2.98 3.01 3.04 2.93 2.68 2.63 2.94 2.77 2.83 2.75
Total Waste to Landfill 
 (kg/ton of product)  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 10.3 9.8 9.4 8.5
Environmental Incidents8 3 4 3 1 2 2 2 2 1 3 0 1
Environmental Notices 
of Violation9 5 6 5 3 0 8 8 7 2 5 5 5
Environmental fines 
paid ($)10 6,620  0 0 0 0 26,200  9,057  1,000  0 50,094  1,065  38,582
1 The number of occupational injuries and illnesses that require medical treatment per 
  200,000 work-hours.
2 The number of occupational injuries and illnesses causing employees to be absent from 
  work per 200,000 work-hours.
3 A violation or citation issued by a governmental authority with jurisdiction.
4 Fines associated with Safety Notices of Violations (NOVs).
5 Cash contributions by Colgate charitable organizations, including cash contributions 
 to the “Bright Smiles, Bright Futures” pr ogram.6 In-kind and product donations by Colgate to charitable organizations.
7 Data varies slightly from pr evious reporting due to boundary changes and updated 
  reporting methodology.
8 Represents site-related spills or accidental releases that reach a water body, groundwater
 or soils or affect a third party . As of 2012, significant spills are reported, which are defined
  as any spills that are included in our financial statement. 
9 A violation or citation issued by a governmental authority with jurisdiction.
10  Fines associated with Environmental Notices of V iolations (NOVs).Key Performance Indicators51 of 54
This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.  
GRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report  Other
Indicator  Description  Reference or Dir ect Answer  Reference
General Standard Disclosures
Strategy and Analysis
G4-1  Statement from the most senior  Message from Ian Cook  
decision maker of the organization
G4-2  Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities  Throughout r eport  10K
Organizational Profile  
G4-3  Name of the organization  Company Profile —
G4-4  Primary brands, products, services  Company Profile  Annual Report
G4-5  Headquarters location  Company Profile —
G4-6  Country operations  Company Profile  10K
G4-7  Nature of ownership and legal form  Company Profile  10K
G4-8  Markets served  Company Profile  10K
G4-9  Scale of the reporting or ganization  Company Profile  10K
G4-11  Percentage of total employees cover ed 
by collective bargaining agr eements  Approximately 44.5%  —
G4-13  Significant changes during the reporting period   — 10K
G4-15  Externally developed charters, principles to which  Partnerships  —
organization subscribes or endorses
G4-16  Memberships of associations  Partnerships  —
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17  Entities included in the organization’ s consolidated  — 10K
financial statements or equivalent documentsGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index52 of 58
52 of 54
GRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report  Other
Indicator  Description  Reference or Dir ect Answer  Reference
Stakeholder Engagement  
G4-27  Key topics and concerns raised thr ough  Recent Commitments  —
stakeholder engagement and response
Report Profile  
G4-28  Reporting period  About This Report —
G4-29  Date of most recent r eport  — ColgatePalmolive.com/
Sustainability 
G4-30  Reporting cycle  — ColgatePalmolive.com/
Sustainability
G4-31  Contact point for questions about report  csr@colpal.com —
Governance   
G4-34  Governance structur e — ColgatePalmolive.com -  
Governance
G4-38  Composition of highest governance body and committees  — ColgatePalmolive.com -  
Governance
G4-39  Chairman as executive officer  — ColgatePalmolive.com -  
Governance
Ethics and Integrity
G4-56  Organization’ s values, principles, standards  Company Profile; People  ColgatePalmolive.com -  
and norms of behavior Global Ethics and 
Compliance   Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index53 of 58
53 of 54
GRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report  Other
Indicator  Description  Reference or Dir ect Answer  Reference
General Standard Disclosures
 Economic
Disclosure on  Economic Performance, Market Presence,  Company Profile; Performance ; Annual Report
Management    Procur ement Practices  Suppliers  
 Approach  
EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed  Company Profile; Performance  Annual Report
EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities  Planet - Environmental  CDP Climate Change, 
due to climate change  Management  CDP Water
EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations  — 10K
EC4 Significant financial assistance received fr om government  — 10K
 Environmental
Disclosure on  Materials, Energy , Water, Biodiversity, Emissions,  Performance - Product  —
Management  Effluents and Waste, Pr oducts and Services,  Sustainability; Planet
Approach  Compliance, Transport, Overall  
EN2 Percentage of materials used that ar e Performance - Packagin g —
recycled input materials  
EN3 Energy consumption within the or ganization  Planet - Reducing Energy  CDP Climate Change   
and GHG Emissions  
EN4 Energy consumption outside of the or ganization  Planet - Reducing Energy  CDP Climate Change 
and GHG Emissions; Suppliers
EN5 Energy Intensity  Planet - Reducing Energy  CDP Climate Change 
and GHG Emissions 
EN6 Reduction of energy consumption  Planet - Reducing Energy  CDP Climate Change   
and GHG Emissions
EN8 Total water withdrawal by sour ce — CDP Water
EN9 Water sour ces significantly affected by withdrawal of water  — CDP Water
EN15  Direct gr eenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1)  Key Performance Indicators  CDP Climate Change 
EN16  Energy indir ect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2)  Key Performance Indicators  CDP Climate Change 
EN17  Other indirect gr eenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3)  Planet - Reducing Energy  CDP Climate Change
and GHG Emissions; Suppliers
EN18  Greenhouse gas emissions intensity  Planet - Reducing Energy  CDP Climate Change   
and GHG Emissions  
EN19  Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions  Planet - Reducing Energy  CDP Climate Change   
and GHG Emissions
EN22  Water dischar ge by quality and destination  Key Performance Indicators  CDP Water
EN23  Amount of waste by type/destination  Planet - Reducing Waste  —
EN24  Number/volume of significant spills  Key Performance Indicators  —
EN27  Extent of impact mitigation of environmental  Performance; Suppliers — 
impacts of products and services
EN29  Incidents/fines for non-compliance with  Key Performance Indicators  — 
environmental r egulations
EN30  Significant environmental impacts  Planet - Reducing Energy  CDP Climate Change   
of transportation or logistics  and GHG Emissions   
EN30  Total envir onmental protection expenditures  — Annual Report
EN31  and investments by typeGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index54 of 58
54 of 54
 GRI Indicator  Colgate Sustainability Report   Other
 Indicator  Description  Refer ence or Direct Answer   Refer ence
 Labor Practices and Decent W ork
 Disclosur e on  Employment, Labor/Management Relations,  People; Suppliers   —
 Management  Occupational Health and Safety , Training and Education, 
 Appr oach  Diversity and Equal Opportunity , Equal Remuneration    
 LA5  Notice period r egarding operational changes  Comply with r egulations   —
 LA6  Health and safety data  People ; Key Performance Indicators  —
 LA9  A verage hours of training per year per employee  People   —
 LA10  Pr ograms for skills management/lifelong learning  People - Supporting Colgate People ;  —  
   Emerging Markets  
 LA12  Employee and gover nance body demographics  People ; Key Performance Indicators  —
 Human Rights
 Disclosur e on  Investment and pr ocurement practices, non-discrimination,  People; Suppliers  Code of Conduct; 
 Management  fr eedom of association and collective bargaining, child labor,   Supplier Code of Conduct
 Appr oach  pr evention of forced and compulsory labor, security practices,  
  indigenous rights, assessment, r emediation   
 Society
 Disclosur e on   Local communities, corruption, public policy ,  People  Code of Conduct; 
 Management  anti-competitive behavior , compliance   ColgatePalmolive.com  -   
 Approach    Governance
 SO6  Political contributions  $0  Code of Conduct;   
    ColgatePalmolive.com -  
    Governance
 Pr oduct Responsibility
 Disclosur e on  Customer health and safety , product and service  Performance  Product Safety
 Management  labeling, marketing communications, customer   Research Policy
 Appr oach  privacy , compliance    
 PR5  Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction  Performance  Consumer AffairsGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indexwww.ColgatePalmolive.comColgate Sustainability Report 2013
© 2014 Colgate-Palmolive Company
Design by Robert Webster Inc. (RWI), www.rwidesign.com
Printing by Universal Wilde56 of 58
300ParkAvenue New York, NY 10022- 7499300ParkAvenue New York, NY 10022- 7499
300ParkAvenue New York, NY 10022- 7499300 P ark Avenue  New York, NY 10022- 7499