Giving the World Reasons to SmileColgate Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 2016
page 2
Giving the World Reasons to Smile
About This Report
Unless otherwise indicated, this report includes environmental, occupational health 
and safety data from 100 percent of Colgate’s manufacturing sites and technology centers around the world but does not include data from contract manufacturers.
(1)
Certain information relates to our broader value chain: Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment program data includes selected contract manufacturers, warehouses and suppliers; our greenhouse gas and water footprints include additional data from upstream and downstream in our value chain; and progress on our Policy on No Deforestation includes selected suppliers. Financial information is presented on a consolidated basis and in U.S. dollars (see Business Strength). The report provides data for Colgate’s fiscal year 2016 along with prior history and more recent updates where indicated. We issue our Sustainability Report on an annual basis; our previous report focused on 2015.
This report was developed in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 
Guidelines at the core level. There are no significant changes in the scope of our report or the key sustainability issues identified. However, this year, for the first time, we are reporting in accordance with the GRI G4 core level.
For feedback, questions and comments related to Colgate’s 2016 Sustainability 
Report, please contact csr@colpal.com. For all other inquiries, please visit Colgate’s Consumer Affairs site at colgatepalmolive.com.
Contents:
Message from Ian Cook  3
Company Profile  4
Corporate Governance  6
Sustainability Management  9
Awards and Recognition  12
2015 to 2020 Strategy  13
n  People  18
n  Performance  52
n  Planet  78
Partnerships  111
Key Performance Indicators  115
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index  117
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures  122
(1) Although Colgate does not include the local operating results of CP Venezuela and CP Pakistan in its Consolidated Financial Statements, data from these locations 
are included in the calculations in this report. Cautionary Statement on Forward -Looking Statements 
This report, including our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy, contains forward‑looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements are made on the basis of Colgate’s views and assumptions as of this time, and Colgate undertakes no obligation to update these statements except as required by law. Colgate cautions investors that such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual events or results may differ materially from these statements due to a number of factors. For information about factors that could impact Colgate’s business and cause actual results to differ materially from forward‑looking statements, consult our filings 
with the SEC (including the information set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” in Colgate’s Annual Report on Form 10 -K for the year ended 
December 31, 2016).page 3
Achieving economic, social and environmental 
performance in today’s business climate requires a long -
term corporate social responsibility and sustainability strategy that is executed with discipline year after year. At Colgate, we bring to our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy the same dedication we bring to our business building efforts, and a strong focus on delivering our five global commitments and goals: 
n	Helping Colgate People and Their Families 
 Live Better
n	Contributing to the Communities Where We Live 
 and Work
n	Brands That Delight Consumers and Sustain 
 Our World
n	Making Every Drop of Water Count 
n	Reducing Our Impact on Climate and the  
 Environment
Publication of this report provides the opportunity to thank Colgate people and our partners for their contributions to delivering our strategy. We are also especially pleased to highlight these aspects of our  ongoing sustainability journey:
n	2016 marked the 25th Anniversary of our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program (BSBF), through which Colgate has reached over 900 million children in need around the world with oral health education.
n	Colgate no longer uses microbeads or phthalates as ingredients in our products. We have also reformulated our products using alternative, safe preservative systems and no longer use parabens as preservatives in our products. In 2017, we will also complete the elimination of the use of formaldehyde donors as preservatives in our products. 
n	The efforts of Colgate people around the world enabled us to be recognized as a member of the North American DJSI Leadership Index, CDP Water A List and CDP Climate A List as well as sector leaders in the Just Capital Ranking.
n	We continue to increase the number of facilities that were constructed with sustainability in mind—14 facilities have achieved 17 certifications from the U.S. Greenbuilding Council under Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.
n	In 2016, we joined members of the Consumer Goods Forum in a commitment to eradicate forced labor from our value chains. We believe that every worker should have freedom of movement, no worker should pay for a job and no worker should be indebted or coerced to work, principles long established in our own direct operations.
n	We issued a commodity ‑specific Policy on 
Responsible and Sustainable Sourcing of Palm Oils and are continuing to work with our suppliers and The Forest Trust to build a traceable supply chain that meets our policy criteria.
n	We have also recently confirmed our support for the UN Global Compact and principles on human rights, labor, environmental and anticorruption.
 As we head into 2017, Colgate will continue to 
care for the well-being of people and their families, be a steward for the planet and its resources and do business with the highest level of integrity .
 We are confident we will accomplish what we are 
setting out to achieve by working together as one global team, committed to continue Giving the World Reasons to Smile.
Thank you,
Ian Cook 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Message from Ian Cook
page 4
Founded in 1806, Colgate-Palmolive is a publicly traded consumer products 
company with $15.2 billion of worldwide net sales in 2016, serving people around the world with well
-known brands that make their lives healthier and more enjoyable.
Colgate Brands
Colgate manufactures and markets Oral Care, Personal Care, Home Care and Pet Nutrition products under trusted brands such as Colgate, Palmolive, Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick, Sanex, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Elmex, Tom’s of Maine, Ajax, Fabuloso, Soupline, Suavitel, Hill’s Science Diet, Hill’s Prescription Diet and Hill’s Ideal Balance.
Operations
Colgate operates in over 80 countries, and our products are marketed in over 200 countries and territories. 
Approximately 36,700 Colgate employees drive our success.
Headquartered in New York City, Colgate operates through six divisions around 
the world: Company Profile
Hill’s Pet Nutrition Asia PacificNorth America Latin America Europe
Africa/Eurasia
Six Divisions
Colgate also has an extensive supply chain consisting of thousands of suppliers of raw and packing materials, manufacturing operating supplies, capital equipment and other goods and services. The Company has over 50 manufacturing and research facilities globally. The vast majority of Colgate products are manufactured in Colgate-owned facilities.
Softsoap Blue- PMS 661
Silver- Foil Stamp
®
® ®
page 5
Colgate ValuesCompany Profile
(1) 2013–201 6 exclude charges related to the 201 2 Restructuring Program. 201 2 excludes costs related to the sale of land in Mexico. A complete 
reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on 
Colgate’s website and on page 122 of this report. 
(2) 2016 excludes a gain from the sale of land in Mexico, charges related to the 2012 Restructuring Program and certain other items. 20 15 excludes a gain 
from the sale of the Company’s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific, charges related to the deconsolidation of the Company’s Venezuelan operations, charges related to the 201 2 Restructuring Program and certain other items. 201 3 and 201 4 exclude charges related to the 201 2 Restructuring 
Program, remeasurement charges resulting from devaluations and effective devaluations in Venezuela and certain other items. 20 12 excludes charges 
related to the 201 2 Restructuring Program and certain other items. A complete reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding 
these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on Colgate’s website and on page 122 of this report.
(3) All per share amounts have been restated for the 201 3 two-for-one stock split.Net Sales  
($ billions)Gross Profit Margin  (1)  
(% of sales)Diluted Earnings  (2)(3)  
($ per share)Dividends Paid  (3)  
($ per share)
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’122.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)2.81(2) 1.50
1.42
1.33
1.221.55
2.36 2.3816.0 17.3 17.4
17.1
15.2
1.522.572.72
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’1258.7(1)58.7(1) 58.8(1)
58.3(1)60.3(1)
58.6 58.5
58.160.0
58.6
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’122.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)2.81(2) 1.50
1.42
1.33
1.221.55
2.36 2.3816.0 17.3 17.4
17.1
15.2
1.522.572.72
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’1258.7(1)58.7(1) 58.8(1)
58.3(1)60.3(1)
58.6 58.5
58.160.0
58.6
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’122.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)2.81(2) 1.50
1.42
1.33
1.221.55
2.36 2.3816.0 17.3 17.4
17.1
15.2
1.522.572.72
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’1258.7(1)58.7(1) 58.8(1)
58.3(1)60.3(1)
58.6 58.5
58.160.0
58.6
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’122.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)2.81(2) 1.50
1.42
1.33
1.221.55
2.36 2.3816.0 17.3 17.4
17.1
15.2
1.522.572.72
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’1258.7(1)58.7(1) 58.8(1)
58.3(1)60.3(1)
58.6 58.5
58.160.0
58.6Business Strength
Colgate’s success is linked to the Company’s values of 
Caring, Global Teamwork and Continuous Improvement.
n	Caring
 The Company cares about people: Colgate people, 
customers, consumers, shareholders and business partners. Colgate is committed to acting with compassion, integrity, honesty and high ethics in all situations and to listen with respect to others and to value differences. The Company is also committed to protecting the global environment, to enhancing the communities where Colgate people live and work and to being compliant with government laws and regulations.n Global Teamwork
 All Colgate people are part of a global team, 
committed to working together across countries and throughout the world. Only by sharing ideas, technologies and talents can the Company achieve and sustain profitable growth. 
n Continuous Improvement
 Colgate is committed to getting better every day
 in all it does as individuals and as teams. By
 better understanding consumers’ and customers’
 expectations and continuously working to innovate
 and improve pr oducts, services and processes,
 Colgate will become the best.2016 Net Sales by Geographic Region  2016 Net Sales by Market MaturityHill's Pet Nutrition
Africa/EurasiaAsiaEurope/South PacificLatin AmericaNorth AmericaNorth America  21%
Latin America 24%
Europe 16% 
Asia Pacific 18%   
Africa/Eurasia 6%
Hill’s Pet Nutrition 15%
Emerging Markets
Developed MarketDeveloped Markets 51%
Emerging Markets 49% Hill's Pet Nutrition
Africa/EurasiaAsiaEurope/South PacificLatin AmericaNorth AmericaNorth America
 21%
Latin America 24%
Europe 16% 
Asia Pacific 18%   
Africa/Eurasia 6%
Hill’s Pet Nutrition 15%
Emerging Markets
Developed MarketDeveloped Markets 51%
Emerging Markets 49% page 6
Corporate Governance
Colgate’s Governance Principles
Governance is an ongoing commitment shared by our 
Board of Directors, our management and all Colgate People. Colgate’s Board of Directors believes that good corporate governance accompanies and greatly aids our long-term business success. This success has been the direct result of Colgate’s key business strategies—Engaging to Build Our Brands; Innovation for Growth; Effectiveness and Efficiency; and Leading to Win. The Company’s strategic focus is on core product categories, global brands and people development programs, with an emphasis on pay for performance and the highest standards of integrity. Colgate’s Board has been at the center of these key strategies, helping to design and implement them, and seeing that they guide the Company’s operations.
 The Board believes that the Company has 
consistently been at the forefront of good corporate governance. Reflecting its commitment to continuous improvement, the Board reviews its governance practices on an ongoing basis to ensure that they promote shareholder value. We have established governance policies and practices detailed here.
Governance Polices:
n Director Independence Standards
n Independent Board Candidate Qualifications
n Board Guidelines on Significant Corporate 
 Governance Issues
Governance Practices:
n Board Independence, Expertise and Accountability
n Directors are Stockholders
n Established Policies Guide Governance and 
 Business Integrity
n Board Focused on Key Business Priorities
n Direct Access to Management
n Enduring Management Accountability
n Board Practices Promote Effective Oversight
n Continuous Improvement Thr ough Evaluation 
 and Education
To learn more, visit the Governance section on Colgate’s website at colgatepalmolive.com.
Ethics and Compliance 
Colgate is committed to doing business with integrity and respect for all people and for the world around us. With governance and ethics principles embedded into Company culture as well as standards supporting the well-being of all Colgate people, Colgate ensures its business success goes hand-in-hand with business integrity.
Code of Conduct and Global 
Business Practices Guidelines
Since 1987, our Code of Conduct has served as a 
guide for our daily business interactions, reflecting our corporate values and our standard for ethical behavior. Our Code of Conduct is available in 40 different languages. One hundred percent of salaried and clerical Colgate people participate in annual training and certification on the Code of Conduct. Factory workers certify annually and complete training every other year. Our audit firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , audits a cross ‑section of these certifications. Colgate’s 
Global Business Practices Guidelines provide further information to our employees on key topics in our Code of Conduct. The Guidelines offer clear, practical guidance and illustrate how the values and principles outlined in the Code of Conduct apply to particular business situations. Topics addressed by our Business Practices Guidelines include:
1. Advertising and Advertising Placement2. Anti-Bribery Laws3. Antitrust and Competition Laws4. Confidentiality5. Conflicts of Interest6. Corporate Governance7. Data Protection and Privacy8. International Trade Regulations9. Product Integrity
10. Social Mediapage 7
 The Colgate EthicsLine provides a means for 
employees and external parties to ask questions, obtain 
guidance or report any suspected violations of the Code of Conduct. We work to create a workplace free of inappropriate or unlawful behavior in which people are encouraged to share their concerns with the Company without fear of retaliation. Consequently, at Colgate no adverse action will be taken against any employee, former employee, agent or third-party for complaining about, reporting or participating in or assisting in the investigation of a suspected violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct, Company policy or applicable law unless the allegation made or information provided is found to be intentionally false or was not brought forward in good faith.
 All reporting activity provided when Colgate People 
“Speak Up” is reviewed and, if deemed to be a potential violation of the Code of Conduct or Business Practices Guidelines, the matter is promptly and thoroughly investigated by Global Ethics & Compliance and/or the Global Legal Organization.
 In 2016, Ethics and Compliance received 
approximately 374 contacts through a variety of channels including the EthicsLine, Ethics web tool and ethics@colpal.com, which covered a wide variety of reporting activities including 47 consultations. Allegations reported to Ethics and Compliance are grouped into the following categories: Accounting-
related, Conflict of Interest, Discrimination, Financial ‑
related, Harassment, Regulatory and Legal, Retaliation, Work Environment, Miscellaneous Issues (“Other”) and non-E&C matters. After a thorough investigation has been completed, if the allegations are substantiated, appropriate remedial action is taken.No Political Contributions
Colgate has a long-standing policy against making contributions to political parties or candidates, which is set forth in our Code of Conduct and Global Business Practices Guidelines. These policies prohibit Company contributions to any political party or candidate whether federal, state or local. We also prohibit U.S. trade associations from using any portion of Colgate dues for political contributions, and we conduct an annual reminder and certification process to ensure trade association awareness and compliance.
Anti-Bribery
Colgate has a strict policy prohibiting bribery of governmental officials and private commercial parties anywhere we do business. This policy is outlined in the Code of Conduct and Global Business Practices Guidelines. Colgate also mandates that the third parties with whom we work comply with our anti-bribery policy, which is included in our Third Party Code of Conduct and further communicated to third parties through our global Due Diligence Process. This process utilizes a third-party tool to review and evaluate all priority third parties that interact with governmental officials. It also requires the third-party to train employees on this topic.
Training
Colgate’s compliance training, “Ethical Leadership Training,” uses a mixture of classroom and online training and covers numerous priority ethical topics, including Anti-Bribery, Competition Law, Privacy and Trade Compliance as well as the Code of Conduct certification referenced above. The Code training includes up to six topic areas every year, and the scenarios are updated on an annual basis. Many of these courses have run continuously for over eight years. Every year 100 percent of salary and clerical employees complete the Code of Conduct training and every other year all employees complete the course. Training is mandatory and is linked to compensation for certain employee populations.Corporate Governancepage 8
Corporate Governance
Communication
Communicating an ethical message is a critical part of Colgate’s Maintaining the 
Highest Ethical Standards program. It is imperative that current and new employees are fully aware of the ethical policies. Colgate branded the message: “Learn, Act, Speak Up.”    This message is communicated continually including on the Ethics and Compliance website, app, posters, wallet cards and local engagement presentations worldwide. Repeating the message utilizing various formats is important to gain employee awareness and comprehension.
Privacy and Data Protection
Colgate respects the privacy of its employees, consumers, customers, suppliers and other third parties with whom we have a business relationship, and therefore, we handle personal data responsibly and in accordance with all applicable data privacy and data protection laws. For additional information, refer to our Privacy Policy on colgatepalmolive.com.
n Environmental, Occupational Health and  Safety Policy Statement
n Code of Conduct
n Third -Party Code of Conduct
n		FCPA and Anti -Bribery Policy 
n		Non-Retaliation Policy
n		Political Contributions Policy
n Ingredient Safety Policy 
n Quality Policy Statement 
n Product Safety Research Policyn		Hill’s Pet Nutrition Commitment  to Animal Welfare 
n Policy on No Deforestation
n Responsible and Sustainable Sourcing of Palm Oils
n State of California Disclosure:  Supply Chain Transparency
n	Policy on Conflict Minerals
n Global HIV/AIDS Policy Statement
n Donation Policy
n Privacy PolicyColgate External Policy Statements 
page 9
Sustainability is integrated into Colgate’s business model and aligned with our core values: Caring, Global 
Teamwork and Continuous Improvement. Our sustainability efforts help ensure our business grows consistently  and responsibly, benefit those we serve and promote the well
-being of future generations.
Materiality Approach
As a publicly traded U.S. company, Colgate files required reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Annual Report on Form 10
-K highlights risks material to an investment in the 
Company, including those relating to sustainability, namely volatility in commodity prices; changes in regulatory requirements relating to ingredients in our products; changes in policies or practices of retail trade partners, such as with respect to the environment or sustainability; damage to our reputation relating to environmental impacts or other sustainability issues; disruption to our global supply chain or key office facilities by environmental events; disruptions in logistics; damage from industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; and losses caused by natural disasters, including climate events. 
 Refer to Item 1A. RISK FACTORS in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 for the material risks relating to an investment in our securities.
 While not considered material fr om an SEC point of 
view, Colgate has identified a set of key sustainability issues for the Company, taking into account the issues of interest to our stakeholders.
Stakeholder Engagement
Colgate strives to create and maintain communication channels with a wide variety of stakeholders. Our sustainability commitments and goals were developed with the input of our stakeholders. We continue to listen  to stakeholders to inform our sustainability strategy.
 Colgate is open to listening to and engaging with a variety of stakeholders and establishing effective 
communication channels. We support opportunities where we and stakeholders can learn from one another and create a positive impact on each other to improve social, environmental or other conditions.
 Outlined below are Colgate’ s main stakeholder groups and examples of our engagement approach. See  
page 111  for a full list of Colgate’s partnerships and details on our engagement.Sustainability Management
Our employees
Our consumers
Our retail customers and partnersOur peers and suppliersEmployee engagement surveys
Geographic sustainability teamsInternal subject matter expertsSustainability steering team
Consumer inquiries 
Consumer surveysSocial Media postings
Sustainability network groups
Sustainability surveysTrade partner supplier expectations
Peer benchmarking
Supplier engagement meetingsAssessments and disclosure requestsStakeholders  Method of Engagementpage 10
Sustainability Management
Key Issues, Risks and Opportunities
Colgate has categorized and prioritized the issues with the most potential to impact our operations or supply chain 
or to create regulatory or reputational risk. In addition to risk, we considered whether an issue has potential to create shared value for both Colgate and society. The chart below summarizes key sustainability issues:
Based on the Risk Factors identified in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K, our top sustainability risks are Product Stewardship and Climate Change.
 Colgate is managing risks and opportunities 
related to these issues through the implementation of our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy as well as through our Enterprise Risk Management process. These same issues also provide an opportunity to drive innovation and growth, strengthen brand reputation and demonstrate our commitment to responsible business. Additional detail on each of the issues and our actions to address them is provided in the body of the report.
 Our key sustainability issues also intersect with the 
following GRI G4 Aspects deemed to be important for our internal and external stakeholders listed under the Stakeholder Engagement section: Economic Perfor -
mance, Materials, Energy, Water, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, Products and Services, Compliance, Transport, Occupational Health and Safety, Training and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Local Communities, Public Policy, and Service Labeling.Our shareholders and investor groups
Government and regulatory bodies
Non-governmental associations
Industry trade associations
Local communities and community groups
Media Direct inquiries and feedback
Face-to-face meetings Investor conferences
Monitoring of regulatory activity relevant to Colgate
Face-to-face meetings
Direct inquiries and feedback
Face-to-face meetings Participation in boards, advisory councils and partnership programsReporting and disclosure expectations
Participation in Sustainability Steering and Working Groups Direct inquiries and feedback
Face-to-face meetings 
Direct inquiries and feedback Stakeholders  Method of Engagement
Key Sustainability Issues
Deforestation
(page 107)Climate 
Change
(page 80)Responsible
Sourcing and 
Human Rights
(page 29)Oral
Health
(page 42)Water
Stewardship
(page 92)Product 
Stewardship
(page 57)Sustainable 
Packaging
(page 71)page 11
Commitments, Goals and Metrics
Colgate’s Sustainability Strategy is grounded in five 
commitments, each supported by specific measureable goals. For a detailed list of our sustainability goals, please see page 13. Progress highlights for each goal are summarized on pages 14–17. Refer to page 115 for Key Performance Indicator (KPI)/metric detail.
Sustainability Governance
A Sustainability Steering Committee made up of Colgate’s Chief Operating Officer, North America, Europe, Africa/Eurasia and Global Sustainability; Vice President, Global Sustainability and EHS; Chief Technology Officer; Chief Human Resources Officer; Vice President of Global Compensation and Benefits; Chief Marketing Officer; and Chief Supply Chain Officer makes strategic decisions related to sustainability and guides the organization to meet sustainability goals. Colgate’s Vice President, Global Sustainability and EHS has direct responsibility for implementing sustainability and EHS programs.
 Additionally, networks of senior leaders in each 
division and local champions support on -the-ground 
sustainability efforts, communications and reporting. Global functions such as Human Resources, Packaging, Procurement and Technology coordinate certain aspects of the program where global consistency is appropriate. Moreover, to provide incentives for Colgate people to integrate sustainability into business strategy and operations, Colgate’s global sustainability initiatives have been added to team goals and individual objectives used to determine the compensation for many of Colgate’s senior managers.
 Colgate’s Chairman, Pr esident and CEO and full 
Board of Directors are kept informed of the Company’s progress via regular updates and consider sustainability matters, risks and opportunities in decision
-making. 
Sustainability is considered an emerging risk as part of our Enterprise Risk Management process. Additionally, Colgate’s Chief Financial Officer provides the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors with an update on the Company’s Risk and Crisis Management Program. The Personnel and Organization Committee of the Board reviews the Company’s social responsibility programs and other public interest matters. Reporting and Disclosure
We recognize that transparency is important and pro-vides a window into the Company’s performance on sustainability. It is important to Colgate to provide the sustainability information relevant to a broad range of stakeholders, including but not limited to consumers, customers, investors, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and our own employees. This report was de-veloped in accordance with Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) G4 Guidelines at the core level. A GRI Content Index is provided on page 117. We additionally have identified the key sustainability issues of importance to Colgate and our stakeholders (see page 10). Our goal is to provide context for our reporting. For example, the discussion of our water stewardship practices is written within the context of global water stress. Final-ly, we include the stories and photographs that bring our sustainability commitment to life, highlighting the enthusiasm and commitment of Colgate people around the world.
 Many Colgate people across multiple geographies 
contribute to the development of this report each year. A process is in place to manage the flow of information and help ensure accuracy. Colgate recognizes the importance of data verification and is obtaining third-party assurance for our primary environmental and social Key Performance Indicators: percentage of products with an improved sustainability profile; manufacturing carbon reduction per ton (of production); manufacturing energy reduction per ton (of production); manufacturing water consumption per ton 
(of production); waste ‑to‑landfill per ton (of production) 
and outbound logistics carbon per ton (of goods shipped); number of hours worked; number of lost-time incidents; number of recordable incidents; and number of occupational fatalities.
 In addition to our Sustainability Report, we also 
disclose information on our sustainability progress and respond to several rating organizations, including but not limited to CDP Climate, CDP Water, CDP Forest, and CDP Supply Chain. Colgate provides information to RobecoSAM to inform the Dow Jones Sustainability Index rankings. Colgate’s sustainability information is also available on the Bloomberg Terminal.Sustainability Managementpage 12
Awards and Recognition
Colgate continues to be recognized for efforts in sustainability and social responsibility.
BrandZ Top 100 Most 
Valuable Global Brands 2016
No. 54 
n
Best Global Brands 2016
Colgate ranked by  
Interbrand as one of the  
Best Global Brands
n	
In 2016 Forbes named  
Colgate one of the  
World’s Most Valuable Brands,  
Most Innovative Companies  
and 25 Most Reputable Companies
n
Ranked No. 13 in 
Global Supply Chain Top 25  
by IT research and advisory  
company Gartner
n
Colgate named 
No. 1 Most Trusted Brand in India 
by The Economic Times 
Brand Equity in 2016
n
Colgate named to 2016 Most 
Innovative Growth Companies in 
India by Forbes Magazine 2017 World’s Most  
Ethical Companies  
Ethisphere Institute
n
Top 60 Companies for  
Executive Women 2016
National Association for  
Female Executives 
n
No. 22 in Top Div50  
2016 list for multi-cultural  
business opportunities by 
DiversityBusiness.com
n
2016 Working Mother  
100 Best Companies and  
Best Companies for  
Multicultural Women
n
Job search engine Indeed.com 
and Forbes recognized Colgate as 
one of the 25 Big Companies with  
 Best Work-Life Balance 
n
No. 10 2016 Best Places 
for Women & Diverse 
Managers to Work 
Diversity MBA MagazineColgate named to  
2015/2016 Dow Jones  
Sustainability North  
America IndexNo. 53 on Corporate 
Knights’ 2017 Global  
100 Most Sustainable 
Corporations listColgate named to  
2017 Fortune  
World’s Most Admired  
Companies list Colgate ranked No.75 on 
Corporate Responsibility 
Magazine’s 100 Best 
Corporate Citizens list
National Organization on  
Disability’s 2016 Leading  
Disability Employer SealBest Place to Work for LGBT Equality
Received perfect score of 100 percent 
from The Human Rights Campaign in its 
2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI)2016 Best in Class for  
Promoting Asian Pacific  
American Women
People Performance Planet
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 
Partner of the Year 2016 
for the 6th year in a row, 
with recognition  
for Sustained Excellence
n
81% of Colgate’s manufacturing  
facilities have achieved  
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR  
Challenge for Industry recognition
n
Colgate was one of  
25 companies globally named  
to the 2016 CDP Water A List 
for leadership in 
water stewardship
n
Colgate was named to the  
2016 CDP Climate A List
n
Colgate ranked in  
Newsweek Green Rankings 
2016—No. 51 in U.S.,  
No. 95 global
n
2016 U.S. EPA’s 
Green Power Partnership 
National Top 100 list 
page 13
2015 to 2020 Strategy
Colgate’s 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy maintains our emphasis on People, Performance and Planet with 
focused, measurable goals that align with the Company’s business objectives. 
We Will 
n Continuously im-
prove employee health 
and reduce health risks  
by 15%(1)
n Encourage healthier 
living for Colgate peo-ple and their families
n Ensure a safe  
and healthy work  environment with a goal of zero lost-time incidents
n Provide education 
and tools to Colgate people to elevate  financial awareness  and planningWe Will 
n Expand Bright 
Smiles, Bright Futures program to reach  1.3 billion children 
n Invest in the im-
provement of health, education and environ-ment for thousands of people in communities around the globe
n Partner with animal 
shelters to help over 2 million dogs and cats find homes
n Reach 60 million 
people annually  with handwashing education 
n Expand Colgate 
Cares Day globally  to be a leader in  volunteerismWe Will 
n Improve the sustain-
ability profile in our new products and product updates
(2) 
n Commit $250 million 
to drive sustainabili-ty with breakthrough product and process innovation
n Increase the recy-
clability of our pack-aging and increase recycled content  to 50%
(3)
n Have a positive 
impact by expanding access to affordable health and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities
n Use the power of 
our brands to build awareness and drive engagement in product sustainabilityWe Will 
n Reduce our manu-
facturing water intensity by half compared  to 2002 
n Replenish water 
withdrawn in highly stressed regions
n Increase supplier 
participation in our water stewardship  program
n Partner with local 
and global organiza-tions to bring clean water to underserved areas of the world
n Promote water con-
servation awareness  to all our global  consumersWe Will 
n Responsibly source 
forest commodities  to reach zero net  deforestation
n Promote use of 
renewable energy and reduce absolute green-house gas emissions from manufacturing by 25% compared to 2002 
n Reduce our man-
ufacturing energy intensity by one-third compared to 2002
n Halve our manufac-
turing waste sent to landfill per ton of prod-uct compared to 2010, working toward our goal of “Zero Waste” 
n Partner with key 
suppliers, customers and consumers to reduce energy, green-house gas emissions and waste
(1) 15% risk reduction will be measured considering a 2013 baseline, using the Global Health Risk Assessment tool, available to countries with 100 or more employees. 
(2) The performance results will be based on representative new products and product updates evaluated against comparable Colgate products, considering a 2015 
baseline, across seven impact areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data. 
(3) Packages meeting all three criteria are considered recyclable: 1) the package is made of a material that is widely accepted for recycling,  2) the package can be 
separated into material(s) that can be recycled, and 3) the package material can be reprocessed into a preferred valuable feedstock.Reducing  
Our Impact  
on Climate  
and the  
EnvironmentMaking 
Every Drop 
of Water  
CountBrands That 
Delight 
Consumers 
and Sustain 
Our WorldContributing  
to the 
Communities 
Where We Live 
and WorkHelping 
Colgate People 
and Their 
Families 
Live BetterContinuing our 2020 Journey
Colgate people around the world are coming together to align behind the commitments and continue to make 
progress. Below are highlights of our progress for each of our strategic commitments.
Helping Colgate 
People and Their Families Live BetterContinuously improve employee 
health and reduce health risks by 15 percent 
(1)
Encourage healthier living for Colgate people and their families
Ensure a safe and healthy work 
environment with a goal of zero lost-time incidents
Provide education and tools 
to Colgate people to elevate financial awareness and planningColgate uses the Health Risk Assessment (HRA), a voluntary, confidential survey, to assess health risk status. The HRA contains questions on employee health habits and biometric data (e.g., blood pressure) and is adapted to local language and culture. To date, we have provided the HRA to over 55 percent of our employees in 35 countries; our goal is to reach all countries with over 100 employees by 2020. For countries who have completed two HRA campaigns, the relative risk reduction is 9.9 percent.
In June 2016, Colgate people from around the world came together 
to achieve over 27 million minutes of healthy activity. In addition to the Healthy Activity Challenge, our signature event, we are providing Colgate people with increased access to healthy food, preventive oral care and immunizations that address top local health concerns. Our buildings are smoke-free and we continue to expand the number of smoke-free campuses around the world.
This commitment respects our long-standing commitment to health 
and safety, and we continue to exhibit world class performance.  In 2016, Colgate achieved the lowest Total Recordable Rate and Lost Workday Case Rate in the history of the company. We are proud of this accomplishment and committed to the prevention of serious injuries. 
Colgate is working to support employees in their effort to be 
financially secure at every stage of their financial lives, not just retirement. Our financial education program aims to help Colgate people learn to live within a budget, fund their children’s education, finance their homes and manage their debt. In 2016, Colgate developed a financial wellness toolkit, available in seven languages. We also continue to offer comprehensive education to both our salaried and nonsalaried personnel in the U.S. that includes classroom training, webinar programming and personal financial telephonic counseling sessions via a third-party provider.
Contributing  
to the Communities Where We Live and WorkExpand Bright Smiles, Bright 
Futures program to reach 1.3 billion childrenIn 2016, Colgate celebrated the 25th anniversary of the Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program. Since 1991, BSBF has reached over 900 million children and their families in over 80 countries, and we continue to expand our reach. Through BSBF , volunteer dentists visit local communities to conduct free dental screenings and treatment referrals and educate children and their families about the importance of maintaining good oral health. Colgate also distributes toothpaste and toothbrushes as well as award-winning educational materials in over 30 languages for use in the classroom and at home. 
page 14
Our Goals  HighlightsOur Goals  Highlights2015 to 2020 Strategy
(1) 15% risk reduction will be measured considering a 2013 baseline, using the Global Health Risk Assessment tool, available to countries with 100 or more employees.page 15
2015 to 2020 Strategy
Contributing  
to the Communities Where We Live and Work
Brands That  
Delight Consumers  and Sustain  Our WorldInvest in the improvement 
of health, education and environment for thousands of people in the communities around the globe
Partner with animal shelters to 
help over two million dogs and cats find homes
Reach 60 million people annually 
with handwashing education
Expand Colgate Cares Day 
globally to be a leader in volunteerism
Improve the sustainability profile 
in our new products and product updates
Commit $250 million to drive 
sustainability with breakthrough product and process innovation
Increase the recyclability of our 
packaging and increase recycled content to 50 percentColgate’s giving priorities are 1) creating educational opportunities, 2) advancing health and well-being and 3) engaging Colgate people. In 2016, Colgate contributed $30.2 million.
The Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love program was created in 2002 to 
support homeless pets in U.S. shelters. In 2016, the Company provided pet food with a retail value of more than $3.3 million and helped over 650,000 dogs and cats find their forever homes.
Colgate is working with public health officials, academia and local 
schools and clinics to educate millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene benefits of handwashing with soap. In 2016, Colgate reached over 97 million people through advertising, media campaigns, community events and educational programs in schools in Fiji, New Zealand, Thailand and other geographies.
We completed our third annual Colgate Cares Day in four locations 
with 800 volunteers participating in 35 volunteer activities. We strive to align our volunteerism opportunities with our giving priorities. Additional local activities are conducted around the world.
We continue to measure improvement in the sustainability profile of 
our products using a product sustainability scorecard that evaluates new products and key platform changes against 25 sustainability parameters. The scorecard process and product evaluation outcomes are validated by a third-party. In 2016, 78 percent of the products evaluated were determined to have an improved sustainability profile.
(1) 
Colgate continues to commit resources to drive sustainability innovation, including next-generation preservative systems, improving the ingredient sustainability profile of our products and packaging improvements. We continue to explore innovation opportunity spaces, relating to sustainability such as water scarcity, naturals and well-being.
Approximately 41 percent of our packaging materials by weight 
globally now come from recycled sources and 78 percent of our packaging is considered recyclable.
(2) Our Goals  Highlights
Our Goals  Highlights
(1) The performance results are based on representative products from the product portfolio evaluated against comparable Colgate products across seven impact 
areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data. 
(2) Packages meeting all three criteria are considered recyclable: 1) the package is made of a material that is widely accepted for recycling,  2) the package can be 
separated into material(s) that can be recycled, and 3) the package material can be reprocessed into a preferred valuable feedstock.page 16
Brands That  
Delight Consumers  and Sustain  Our WorldHave a positive impact by 
expanding access to affordable health and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities
Use the power of our brands 
to build awareness and drive engagement in product sustainabilityColgate makes products more affordable and accessible while maintaining quality, with smaller sizes, refill packages and value options. We work for strong penetration and wide distribution so that more consumers enjoy the benefits of Colgate products. We are also finding ways to offer the benefits of more premium products at affordable price points to provide products to people in undeserved communities. 
Every interaction is an opportunity to give our consumers a future 
they can smile about. We are connecting sustainability with our brands to drive brighter futures, healthier lifestyles and a better 
world. Our brand -based programs create value for Colgate, 
consumers and communities where we do business—Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program, handwashing education, Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love, educational scholarships and donations in times of need.2015 to 2020 Strategy
Making Every 
Drop of Water CountReduce our manufacturing water 
intensity by half compared to 2002
Replenish water withdrawn in 
highly stressed regions
Increase supplier participation in 
our water stewardship program
Partner with local and global 
organizations to bring clean water to underserved areas of the worldWe have a long-standing commitment to reducing Colgate’s water intensity and have a robust program across our operations. So far, we have reduced our manufacturing water intensity by over 48 percent compared to 2002. We are on a journey of continuous improvement and have begun to explore technical solutions to further reduce water consumption during cleaning and sanitization of our operations. 
We have completed water risk mapping to identify operations 
located in areas of high water stress. In 2016, Colgate developed a water replenishment model and piloted it in India. 
We continue to increase supplier participation in our water 
stewardship program by increasing the number of Tier I suppliers that participate in the CDP Supply Chain.
Colgate’s contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever 
program helped them to reach nearly 338,000 people since 2013 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education. Colgate also sponsors 25 PlayPumps in South Africa, which help villages obtain clean water from wells.Our Goals  HighlightsOur Goals  Highlights
page 17
Our Goals  Highlights
Reducing Our 
Impact on Climate and the EnvironmentResponsibly source palm oil 
and other forest commodities to reach zero net deforestation
Promote use of renewable 
energy and reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from manufacturing by 25 percent compared to 2002
Reduce our manufacturing 
energy intensity by one-third compared to 2002
Halve our manufacturing 
waste sent to landfill per ton of product compared to 2010, working toward our goal of  Zero Waste
Partner with key suppliers, 
customers and consumers to reduce energy, greenhouse gas emissions and wasteColgate is partnering with our suppliers, The Forest Trust,  RSPO, The Consumer Goods Forum and others to meet our  No Deforestation commitments. Eighty-one percent of our palm  oil, palm kernel oil and palm oil derivatives purchases are certified.
An absolute greenhouse gas reduction goal has moved us into 
areas beyond energy conservation, including installation of electric car chargers in select locations, purchasing of renewable energy credits and evaluation of new technologies such as fuel cells.Colgate was ranked No. 39 on U.S. EPA’s Green Power Partner List in 2016. So far, we have reduced our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent compared to 2002, achieving our goal four years early.
We continue to reduce our footprint and drive savings via factory 
energy reduction initiatives, including our EOHS energy man-agement standard, 5% for the Planet investment, global energy reduction team, energy treasure hunt program and top 10 energy actions. Since 2002, we have achieved a 31 percent energy intensity reduction and avoided nearly $500 million in energy expenditures.
Colgate has reduced the amount of waste per ton of production 
sent to landfills by over 40 percent since 2010. Our “Zero Waste” program continues to mature with Trash to Treasure waste-sorting events and a recognition program for sites that are leading or have achieved Zero Waste to Landfill. Four of our sites have achieved Zero Waste to Landfill status with nine sites achieving Waste to Landfill Performance Leader recognition. 
We continue to reduce our footprint and drive savings through 
efficient and sustainable logistics. More recently, we have estimated the carbon footprint of the materials used in our products in both our Personal and Home Care categories, in addition to the work recently completed in our Oral Care category.2015 to 2020 Strategy
Making Every 
Drop of Water 
CountOur Goals  Highlights
Promote water conservation 
awareness to all our global 
consumersColgate continues campaigns to increase consumer awareness through Save Water messaging on our packaging, online and in stores. In 2016, Colgate aired our award-winning Save Water video message during football’s Big Game. This campaign alone has reached over 2.7 billion people through earned and social media and views of the television and online video. Colgate expanded the Save Water campaign globally with messaging around World Water Day on March 22, 2016. Our video and message to Save Water was live in more than 60 countries around the world. Plans with similar global reach have been developed for 2017.Peoplepage 18
Peoplepage 18
    55%
of Colgate  
employees invited to use  
employee Health  
Risk Assessment Tool 
since 2013
27
Million
minutes of healthy activity  
logged by Colgate employees  
in June 2016 as part  
of Colgate’s Live Better 
program
8
Million
pet adoptions supported  
by Hill’s Pet Nutrition  
since 2002
97
Million
people reached in 2016 
about the health and hygiene 
benefits of handwashing 
with soap
900
Million
children reached in 80 countries 
by Colgate’s Bright Smiles, 
Bright Futures oral 
health education program 
since 1991
36,700 
Employees 
around the world
2016   
AT A 
GLANCEPeoplepage 19
For over 200 years, Colgate has been 
committed to People. From the nearly 37,000 
employees around the world who run our business to the billions of consumers who use our products, people are at the heart of what we do and how we do it. Supporting Colgate People
Thousands of people around the world work together to make Colgate successful. 
In turn, the Company is committed to the success of our people throughout their careers. Through learning and career development programs, Colgate helps employees stay engaged, rewarded and focused on delivering products and services that meet or exceed our consumers’ expectations.
Striving to Be an Employer of Choice 
We are committed to attracting, developing and retaining talented and dedicatedpeople by:
n Maintaining a culture based on our core values of Caring, Global Teamwork and Continuous Improvement
n Committing to our sustainability strategy focused on People, Performance and Planet
n Providing a stimulating career with learning and development opportunities
n Creating an exciting and motivating work environment
n Ensuring that people feel recognized and rewarded
n Promoting fundamental values and ongoing communication
n Providing cornerstone training programs: Valuing Colgate People, Ethics and Compliance and Managing with Respect
n Recruiting and retaining people of all backgrounds in our global workforce
n Promoting healthier life choices
n Encouraging a healthy balance between work and personal responsibilities
2016 Awards  
Highlights 
In 2016, Forbes  
named Colgate one  
of the World’s Most 
Reputable Companies, 
Most Innovative 
Companies and the  
No. 1 Best Company for 
Work/Life Balance
n
Named one of 
the World’s Most  
Ethical Companies by  
Ethisphere Institute
n	
Corporate Responsibility 
Magazine’s 100 Best  
Corporate Citizens
n
Top 60 Companies for 
Executive Women 2016
page 20
PeopleProfessional Development
Colgate is committed to helping every Colgate person 
reach his or her maximum potential. To support the development of our people and ensure job satisfaction, we proudly offer global career opportunities, access to world-class learning and development programs and continuous coaching and feedback. We keep pace with the rate of change in the marketplace and provide a sustainable competitive advantage for Colgate through the development and maintenance of a robust industry-leading talent pipeline of future Colgate leaders. We are continuously building a learning and development culture that drives employee engagement and supports delivery of our commitments to one another, the professions we serve, our consumers, our customers and our shareholders.
 Our structured Individual Development Planning (IDP) 
process each year enables our employees to create a plan between the employee and the manager for development based upon their strengths, opportunities for improvement and goals. The IDP process helps facilitate a two-way discussion on long-term career goals, key organizational talent needs and provides management an opportunity to discuss and plan employees’ development and career progression. During this process, short-term assignments, long-term assignments and special project opportunities are identified. These opportunities allow our talent to broaden their leadership and functional competencies.
 Colgate’s training programs provide opportunities 
for Colgate people to keep current in their assignments and to gain valuable new skills. In 2016, Colgate people completed over 294,000 total hours of training in our global curriculum as well as additional hours of locally required safety, environmental and other regulatory training. It is estimated that our salaried and clerical employees completed an average of 18 hours of training per person. 
Developing Leaders
We believe that Colgate people at all levels and functions need to have a clear understanding of what it takes to demonstrate personal leadership. Personal leadership is about who one is as an individual, what one contributes to the Company’s results and how one achieves   those 
results and treats others. Demonstrating Colgate’s leadership essentials is an important aspect of personal leadership. Colgate’s leadership essentials are:
n Inspiring Leadership in Everyone
n Acting Courageously
n Providing a Strategic Perspective
n Building a Collaborative Environment
n Delivering Outstanding Results
Key leadership courses at Colgate include Valuing Colgate People, Coaching Essentials and Fundamentals of Colgate Leadership. Several leadership development programs provide opportunities for exceptional Colgate talent to approach new and exciting challenges and hone their skills.
Leadership Development Programs
n The Colgate Leadership Challenge for global, early-
in-career high-potential employees is a key program for developing and retaining our next generation of global leaders. This annual nine-day program provides participants with exposure and interaction with senior management, a greater understanding and connection to the global Colgate organization, personal leadership skills training and an opportunity to work on an important strategic issue for the company. 
n The Colgate Leadership Program @ Stanford is a unique leadership development program for individuals in key roles around the world. The experience at Stanford combines leading academic thinking, practical advice and invaluable business insight, together with additional sessions on personal leadership, coaching and communication.
n Global Leadership 2030 is an innovative executive 
education and development experience conducted by a consortium of the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College, with a select number of other global companies, for a 12-month learning opportunity. The goal is to build global competitiveness within industries and organizations and to develop personal leadership skills among program participants.
Peoplepage 21Learning and Development Highlights
n Colgate is committed to building a coaching culture. 
Coaching capability is important to developing strong 
effective leaders and to the personal growth of all our people. Our Coaching Essentials course is an interactive one-day workshop that uses feedback questionnaires, skill practice sessions and other methods to develop the skills needed for successful coaching and feedback. In 2016, we launched our Coaching Clinics, which are a series of podcasts and videos designed to enhance coaching skills and offer practical guidance for our employees.
n In 2016, Colgate launched the Workplace V iolence 
Prevention Program workshop in the U.S., designed to support our commitment to maintaining a safe and respectful work environment for all employees. The Workplace Violence Prevention Program ensures employees have the appropriate resources and procedures in place to effectively respond to and mitigate a potential or actual workplace violence incident and provides tools to help identify, report  and respond to concerns about workplace violence. The program will be launched in other Colgate regions starting in 2017.
n In 2016, Colgate introduced a new Sustainability 
eLearning course to all employees globally. This fun, interactive course was designed to help Colgate people learn more about Colgate’s global sustainability commitments, the environmental and social issues driving these commitments and why we are working to make a difference for the planet and for the communities where we live and work. n Colgate has a global license for SCM World, making 
SCM World’s content and knowledge base available to all Colgate people. Starting in 2016, Colgate also engaged SCM World to facilitate two new leadership development programs that combined formal and experiential learning based on the latest strategic thinking, trends, technology developments and best practices in the Supply Chain. This program is targeted to current senior supply chain leaders while the Emerging Leaders Program is aimed at next level leaders. These programs will help Colgate develop a vision for the future of work in our Supply Chain.
Enhancing Performance 
At Colgate, effective performance management helps us align our individual and team objectives to our global strategy and achieve our business goals. At the center of Colgate’s performance management approach is our commitment to ongoing coaching. Continuous, forward-looking, authentic coaching conversations that are focused on professional development enhance performance and build a deep level of trust and collaboration within the organization. All salaried and clerical Colgate people leverage a new online tool to facilitate the performance management process. The system provides enhanced functionality for employees and managers to better align objectives to the company’s business goals, enable more frequent coaching and support more meaningful performance management discussions.
Engaging Employees
In 2016, we launched “Colgate Connect,” a global survey to assess key drivers of employee engagement at Colgate. We partnered with an industry-leading vendor to develop the survey that allowed us to deliver a simple tool with robust reporting and analytics capabilities. As a result, we achieved a 75 percent completion rate and have a better understanding of our strengths and opportunity areas both at the corporate level and at the managerial department level. Findings have been communicated to managers who are developing continuous improvement plans with their teams.
Colgate rolled out sustainability eLearningpage 22
PeopleHealth and Wellness 
Supporting Colgate people includes an important 
commitment to supporting the health and wellness of our employees around the world. Through our Live Better programs, we promote physical, emotional and financial wellness for Colgate people and their families. Our goal is to help Colgate people live better every day by providing the resources to help them make healthy choices at work and at home by providing the support they need to live more balanced, healthy lives. Colgate’s Live Better programs focus on the areas of prevention and awareness, healthy lifestyles, resilience and stress and organizational support.
 Our Live Better focus areas ar e grounded in our 2020 
Sustainability Strategy commitments to continuously improve employee health and reduce health risks by 15 percent; to encourage healthier living for Colgate people and their families; to ensure a safe and healthy work environment with a goal of zero lost-time incidents; and to provide education and tools to Colgate people to elevate financial awareness and planning. Building on the groundwork laid in our 2015 Sustainability Strategy, our 2020 goals will help us to reach more Colgate people with support for the health and wellness issues that matter most. 
 Site recognition programs are a tried and true 
means of driving positive outcomes in health, safety, productivity and costs. In 2017, we will be launching our Global Site Recognition program. The program will provide us with a means to measure and track our progress towards our Live Better goals. It will also allow us to drive positive outcomes in health, safety, productivity and costs. Recognition programs are an industry best practice for health and well-being programs, and the concept is similar to industry exemplars in safety.
 The cornerstone of the program will be an online 
survey tool that will access practices within four Live Better Global Standards: prevention and awareness, healthy lifestyles, organizational support, and resilience and stress. The tool will look at both locally oriented actions and company-wide actions. The program will allow us to track and recognize progress at the site level. 
Resilience 
& Stress
Employee Assistance 
Programs
Financial Wellness
Resiliency Programs
Work/Life Services
Employee VolunteeringOrganizational 
Support 
Employee Engagement
Safety Culture
Leadership Engagement
Community Partnership
Live Better Business PlanHealthy 
Lifestyles 
Physical Activity
Nutrition Education
Weight Management
Healthy Cafeteria Options
Smoking CessationPrevention 
& Awareness 
Health Risk Assessments
Flu Shots and Immunizations
HIV/AIDS Policy
Health Screenings
Preventive Oral CareColgate’s Live Better Global Program 
Peoplepage 23Colgate has offered over 55 percent of our employees across 35 countries access to a Health Risk Assessment tool since 
2013, with a goal to reach all countries with 100 or more employees by 2020.Helping Colgate People Assess Health RisksHealth Risk 
Assessments
When anonymously aggregating HRA data, we found that the highest risk factors for Colgate people are: 
4
	Nutrition 
4	Physical Activity 
4	Stress
4	Body Weight
Prevention and Awareness
The Health Risk Assessment (HRA) tool is currently available to over 55 percent of 
our employees in 35 countries and will be expanded. The HRA tool helps Colgate 
employees self ‑evaluate health status, understand risks and provide confidential 
feedback to motivate behavior change. The assessment is a powerful online tool that includes questions on biometric measures such as blood pressure and cholesterol. Colgate also aggregates this data anonymously to focus our Live Better programs on the highest risk factors for Colgate people such as nutrition, physical activity, stress and body weight. According to the World Health Organization, physical inactivity and unhealthy diets are risk factors for cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer. Colgate is committed to educating employees about the importance of a healthy lifestyle. We continue to expand the program with a goal to reach all countries with 100 or more employees by 2020. We are also making plans to ensure that all Colgate people are able to obtain the immunizations they need in order to stay healthy. Additionally, we are developing an approach to address any gaps in dental care access globally and ensure continued oral health awareness for our people.page 24
PeopleColgate’s  
HIV/AIDS Policy 
Statement 
Helps limit the impact 
of HIV/AIDS in the 
workplace and personal 
lives of Colgate people 
and their families
n
Helps create an 
environment that is 
conducive to openness, 
disclosure and 
acceptance among 
all employees
n	
Ensures 
nondiscrimination
n
Identifies and protects 
individual rights 
and outlines the 
responsibilities of 
Colgate people related 
to HIV/AIDS
n
Promotes access 
to treatment
n
Details awareness  
and preventive training 
programs to reduce 
the possibility of 
contracting HIV/AIDS 
Caring in South Africa
In South Africa, Colgate held an awareness campaign, Getting to Zero HIV infection.
Employees took a pledge to get to zero.  Prevention and awareness also includes our commitment to the prevention of 
HIV/AIDS. Our global HIV/AIDS strategy and policy focus on nondiscrimination and 
confidentiality, prevention, access to treatment, partnerships with third parties and proactive organizational support. Colgate holds World AIDS Day programs around the world each December and provides ongoing opportunities for confidential testing and awareness education—especially in Colgate regions with high incidence rates of  HIV/AIDS. Through our programs around the world, we are working to limit the impact of HIV/AIDS and maintaining an environment at Colgate that is conducive to openness and acceptance. 
n In South Africa, Colgate holds an AIDS Week in early December with events 
such as a candle lighting commemoration, a “Family Day” with employees and their families, free voluntary testing and counseling, employee health checks and assessments and training and awareness campaigns. 
n Colgate’s headquarters in New York City recognizes World AIDS Day by displaying 
a section of the AIDS Memorial Quilt and by inviting a guest speaker. This year’s guest speaker was Hydeia Broadbent, a distinguished international public speaker and HIV/AIDS activist for over two decades. 
n Some programs involve the community. Under the A Positive Step program in 
India, together with employees, Colgate sponsors a group of children infected with or affected by HIV/AIDS by providing special nutrition and education and sponsoring their school fees. Sponsorship is provided by the employees made through a payroll program. The company matches the amount donated by the employees for each sponsored child. Currently we have sponsored 89 children through 54 sponsors. This program has positively impacted the health and  well-being of these children as well as their education. 
Peoplepage 25Colgate people around the world participate in a variety of healthy activities ranging from playing basketball in Papua New 
Guinea to hockey in Poland.2012 14,300 9,400,000
2013 20,100 12,900,000
2014 19,700 18,700,000
2015 21,000 23,000,000Employees Who Reached 500 Minutes Goal Total Minutes
2016 21,100 27,300,000Healthy Activity Challenge ParticipationHealthy Lifestyles
Keeping Colgate people healthy in both body and mind 
is a strategic focus for the Company and part of our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy. Our annual Live Better Global Healthy Activity Challenge has become a tradition for Colgate employees all over the world since its inception in 2011. This key Live Better program en-courages all Colgate employees to track and log at least 500 minutes of healthy activity over a one-month period. 
 With a focus on finding ways to “Live Better” at home 
and at work, Colgate people engaged colleagues, family and friends to get active and earn minutes through a range of activities. To further facilitate their success, we offer an online activity tracker where they can monitor and track their progress anytime, anywhere, from any device. Feeling proud to be part of Colgate and the abili-ty to connect with colleagues who share similar interests and passions are motivating factors for success.
 For the sixth year in a row , Colgate people around 
the world took positive steps toward healthier lives by setting and achieving a new level of personal health and wellness goals. We surpassed our 2016 Healthy Activity Challenge Goal of 65 percent participation and 50 percent of all Colgate people completing their healthy activity goals. More than 67 percent participated in this challenge and more than 58 percent achieved their goals.
 In June 2016, Colgate people from over 100 countries 
came together to achieve over 27 million minutes of healthy activity. Many locations held health and wellness events to educate employees on the topics of nutrition, weight loss and a healthy body and mind. Over the past six years, Colgate people have accumulated over 100 
million minutes of healthy activity.  page 26
People Colgate locations also include nutrition education and resour ces in their Live Better 
programs and as part of the Healthy Activity Challenge, with events such as healthy 
cooking demonstrations, nutrition workshops, educational information, labeling of healthy options and serving of healthy breakfasts and lunches. Throughout the month of June when we have our Global Healthy Activity Challenge, we look to offer employees a range of activities to participate in, not only for the month but to carry forward throughout the remainder of the year. A nutrition toolkit is also available to Colgate people on the Company’s intranet site. 
  Smoking cessation continues to be a focus area of Live Better at Colgate. Our 
culture of Caring supports better health and encourages our people to quit tobacco use. While Colgate prohibits smoking within all Company buildings, including all manufacturing facilities, warehouses, technology centers and office buildings, several 
sites are offering smoking cessation support with a goal to become a “Smoke ‑Free 
Campus.”
 Our Colgate Technology Campus in Piscataway , New Jersey embarked on a 
Smoke & Tobacco Free campaign in 2016. The objective of the campaign was to help employees quit smoking while simultaneously promoting a healthy, smoke-free, tobacco-free environment for all of the 1,400 people who work at the campus. Smoking and tobacco use have been prohibited inside the Piscataway workplace for many years, but smokers still had a designated smoking area outside. The new policy prohibits smoking and tobacco use anywhere on company property, inside and out, and applies to all employees, customers, vendors, clients, consultants, contractors and visitors. Being 100 percent smoke- and tobacco-free aligns with the Campus Live Better and Sustainability priorities of caring for our people and the environment. 
 A series of events took place throughout 2016 to educate employees and business 
partners on the benefits of going smoke ‑ and tobacco ‑free. Some of the campaign 
highlights included:
n On-site workshops and webinars, introduction to local resources
n Participation in World No Tobacco Day, held on May 31
n Live Better Smoking Cessation month with educational offerings
n Participation in the Great American Smokeout, held on November 17
 Colgate employees were invited to take advantage of smoke cessation tools 
and benefits available through company ‑provided health insurance and employee 
assistance plans. To ensure there were tools and resources available to the many non-Colgate business partners on site, Colgate leveraged local, state and national resources designated to help with smoke cessation efforts.
 The Colgate Technology Campus is pr oud to be smoke- and tobacco-free!
Organizational Support
Organizational support is one of the pillars in our Live Better program. Around the world, we are working to create a culture that values healthy choices, safety and work-life balance. Leadership engagement is key to promoting our Live Better programs. Colgate leaders actively participate in and support our Live Better programs where they can.
Live Better
Leadership 
engagement is key to 
promoting our Live 
Better initiatives, and 
our leaders are always 
willing to support and 
participate where they 
can. In Sydney, 
a challenge was 
launched where 
leaders participated 
to see who could 
make the best salad.
Peoplepage 27Resilience and Stress
Colgate people are our greatest asset. Recognizing that 
the success of our company is driven by our talented and dedicated employees, we reward the contributions 
of Colgate people everywhere by offering market ‑
competitive compensation and benefit programs.
 While specific benefit offerings for eligible employees 
vary by country according to local regulations and practice, programs typically include retirement savings, health and wellness plans, flexible work arrangements, 
adoption benefits, tuition benefits, back ‑up childcare 
options and professional development training, in addition to programs relevant in the local market.
 Around the world, we also strive to deliver programs 
and services to help our employees succeed both at work and at home through our Live Better global wellness initiative. Live Better events include seminars on resilience and stress management. Colgate is also committed to ensuring the financial 
well-being of our employees. Colgate recognizes that taking care of your financial health can be challenging, so to support a healthy financial lifestyle, Colgate has added a financial wellness component to Live Better. 
 Colgate supports employees in their effort to be 
financially secure at every stage of their financial lives, not just retirement.
 To support employees, Colgate developed a financial 
wellness toolkit and made it available in seven languag-es. The toolkit focuses on three areas: creating wealth, managing wealth and enjoying wealth. In addition, Col-gate is committed to rolling out localized, financial edu-cation materials and tools in 20 subsidiaries by 2020.
 In the U.S., Colgate people have access to financial 
planning workshops, web resources and personal financial planning support from Ernst & Young, LLP at no cost.
page 28
PeopleOur Commitment to Universal Human Rights 
Colgate has a long-standing commitment to respecting 
human and labor rights worldwide and supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization (ILO) Core Labor Standards. Colgate practices and seeks business partners who share our commitment to Universal Human Rights. We recognize the responsibility of business to respect human labor rights and will engage with stakeholders and respect all parties’ rights. Protecting human and labor rights is one of our Key Sustainability Issues identified on page 10.
 As a part of our human rights management 
approach, we identified potential issues (listed below) and the vulnerable groups that might be impacted by these issues. These groups include individuals who work in high-risk geographies, migrant workers and other groups who may be impacted. 
Freedom of 
Association
Diversity and 
InclusionForced 
LaborChild 
LaborHealth and 
Safety
Hours and 
WagesLand 
RightsHarassmentDiversity 
and 
InclusionFreedom 
of 
AssociationForced 
LaborChild 
LaborHealth 
and 
SafetyHours 
and 
WagesHarassment Land 
RightsHuman Rights Strategy
Diversity and Inclusion, one of our eight Human Rights Strategy elements is a core driver for our business growth. 
By supporting diverse perspectives and creating inclusive environments, where all employees feel valued, respected and engaged, we strengthen our workplace environment. This helps to cultivate innovation and improves our overall effectiveness in understanding and meeting customer needs, therefore driving growth.Diversity and Inclusion
Peoplepage 29Key elements of our Commitment to Universal Human Rights include:
Freedom of Association
Colgate is committed to respecting employees’ lawful freedom of association and recognizes all legal rights to organize and collectively bargain. Colgate seeks to work with suppliers who promote this standard.
Forced Labor
Colgate does not use forced labor within our own operations. We will strive to eradicate forced labor from our value chains. We believe that every worker should have freedom of movement, no worker should pay for a job and no worker should be indebted or coerced to work. Moreover, it is Colgate’s policy not to work with any supplier or contractor known to operate with forced labor.
Child Labor
Colgate does not use child labor within our own operations. Child labor is defined as employing any person younger than the minimum age in the jurisdiction in question. However, in no event will we knowingly employ anyone younger than 16 years of age. Moreover, it is Colgate’s policy not to work with any supplier or contractor known to operate with child labor.
Health and Safety
We strive to eliminate potential hazards in the workplace and to comply with all occupational health and safety regulations and our own minimum standards. Colgate respects the health and safety of our workers. Suppliers who do business with Colgate are encouraged to maintain a focus on health and safety that is consistent with ours and must provide a safe and healthy work environment for all employees working at their site. In addition, any supplier representative providing on-site services in a Colgate facility is required to adhere to both regulations and Colgate safety standards.Hours and WagesColgate is committed to paying employees a wage that enables them to meet at least their basic needs and complying with legally mandated work hours in accordance with local laws. Colgate expects our suppliers to comply with legally mandated wage and overtime compensation and working hour requirements in accordance with local law.
Harassment
We prohibit sexual or any other kind of harassment of Colgate people by any person in the workplace or while conducting company business.
Land Rights
Colgate will respect the legal or customary land-tenure and use rights of indigenous and local communities as well as their rights to give or withhold their free, prior and informed consent for operations affecting their land or natural resources. Colgate seeks to work with suppliers who promote this standard.
Diversity and Inclusion
Colgate strives to ensure our organization reflects the diversity of our consumers. We are committed to providing equal opportunity for all employees at all levels regardless of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, citizenship, ethnicity, age, disability, veteran status, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other category protected by law in the terms or conditions of employment. This includes, but is not limited to, recruitment, hiring, promotion, transfer, compensation, training, demotion or layoff. Colgate seeks to work with suppliers who promote this commitment.
page 30
PeopleDiversity
Colgate’s objective is to be recognized as a leader in global diversity and inclusion by 
Colgate people, customers and industry peers and by the global communities that we serve. The discussion on diversity that follows highlights our work on:
n Workplace Diversity
n Equal Pay
n Supplier Diversity
n Consumer Diversity 
Workplace Diversity
Colgate’s objective is to foster an inclusive workplace that reflects the diversity of the global marketplace. We strive to ensure our workforce mirrors the diversity of our consumers, customers and business partners around the world. Such an environment provides all Colgate people with the opportunity to make unique contributions to our business success. Colgate is committed to providing employment, training, compensation, promotion opportunities and all other terms and conditions of employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, citizenship, ethnicity, age, disability, veteran status, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other category protected by law.
 
Colgate’s Diversity and Inclusion Strategy consists of six key components:
n Objective Setting and Review
n Talent Management
n Diversity Recruiting
n People Development and Training
n Diversity and Inclusion Leadership Councils
n Compliance
 Colgate’s training program, Valuing Colgate People, is taught in every Colgate subsidiary globally. Colgate also partners with organizations such as the Conference Board, Diversity Best Practices, the National Association for Female Executives, Working Mother Media, DiversityInc, American Association for People with Disabilities and Asian American Business Development Center to develop an effective and supportive work environment. Additionally, a critical piece of our diversity strategy is to ensure that our talent management process incorporates the professional development of women and minorities.
  To help foster an atmosphere of inclusiveness, Colgate supports employee 
resource groups made up of team members representing many different perspectives, backgrounds and ways of life. Each of these resource groups contributes to Colgate’s inclusive work environment by developing and implementing activities and programs Diversity at Colgate
 
37 %  
women in  
global workforce 
36 %  
women in 
 management positions  
(global)
41%  
women in 
U.S. workforce
40%  
women in management  
positions (U.S.)
31%   
minorities in U.S.  
workforce
33%
of all  
U.S. managers  
are minorities
30% *
women on  
Board of Directors
20% * 
minorities on  
Board of Directors Colgate brings our commitment to human rights to life through our programs on diversity, occupational health and safety, and responsible sourcing. We strive to implement our Human Rights policy across our direct activities, our supply/value chain and our joint ventures. 
*As of the 2017 Annual Meeting of 
shareholders.
Peoplepage 31to promote work and community involvement as well as cultural awareness. 
A selection of Colgate resource groups includes:
n Asian Action Network  n	Hill’s Diversity Council  
n Black Leadership Network  n Hill’s Women Empowered Network
n Colgate Women’ s Network  n Hispanic Action Network
n Colgate LGBT and Allies  n New Employee Organization
n Colgate Parents Network  n Colgate Abilities Network
n Diversity Leadership Councils  n Colgate Jumpstart Network
  In 2016, we implemented “Colgate Jumpstart Network.” Its mission is to provide 
an outlet for early-at-Colgate professionals to actively engage with the community, develop professionally and positively contribute to Colgate’s business objectives. Their goal is to help Colgate people connect, or “plug-in,” to the many opportunities around them to enjoy how they live, how they work, how they share experiences and how they enjoy their experiences through social engagement via play. The idea is to break down social barriers to encourage communication and networking in a nontraditional format.
 In addition, a Colgate sponsored council, the Inclusive Leadership Council, con -
sists of employee resource group leaders and is committed to a truly inclusive work environment, nurturing the efforts and programming to ensure optimal efficiency, effectiveness and support of the Company’s business objectives. The council pro-vides the resource groups with an additional vehicle to communicate and collaborate across teams. The Inclusive Leadership Council meets three times a year.
 Three Diversity Leadership Councils have also been formed as a vehicle to more 
purposefully set and drive specific diversity and inclusion strategies. Each leadership council consists of mid-senior level cross-functional management teams appointed by the division/function leader. The councils operate under established charters with a mission and set of operating and decision-making standards. They are helping to drive a culture of diversity and inclusion by:
n Providing regional and functional leadership with a framework to establish a more
 inclusive leadership practice.
n Establishing clear diversity objectives and accountability.
n Driving a more focused appr oach to career enhancement and upward mobility of 
women and diverse talent.
n Encouraging Colgate people to lead utilizing their diverse backgrounds, 
leadership competencies and varying perspectives.
n Creating opportunities for cross-functional and cross-generational work teams 
and interactions.
n Driving strategies and initiatives to support Colgate people en route to a truly
 inclusive, world-class workforce at all levels.
 Diversity Leadership Councils are actively operating in North America, Global Supply Chain and Hill’s Pet Nutrition. We are currently examining the feasibility of forming Diversity Leadership Councils in regions outside of the U.S.“The diversity of our global 
workforce has been an 
enormous source of strength for Colgate in the past and remains paramount to our success in the future. At Colgate, accountability and ownership for diversity is everyone’s job because it takes a collective effort to foster a truly inclusive work environment that respects and values differences and unique contributions.”
~Ian Cook, 
Chairman, 
President and CEODiversity Awards
 
Best Place to Work 
for LGBT Equality from 
The Human Rights 
Campaign in its 2017 CEI 
n	
2016 Leading Disability 
Employer Seal
n
2016 Working Mother 
100 Best Companies 
and Best Companies for 
Multicultural Women
n
No. 36 
Top 50 Companies 
for Diversity 
Diversity, Inc. Magazine
n
No. 75 on 
Corporate Responsibility 
Magazine’s 100 Best 
Corporate Citizens listpage 32
People2016 Best in Class  
for Promoting  
Asian Pacific  
American Women
n
2016 Best Employer  
for Promoting  
Asian Pacific  
American Women  
Distinguished 
Performance In partnership with the American Association for People with Disabilities, Colgate 
 hosted the 2016 Disability Mentoring Day event in October, held during National 
 Disability Employment Awar eness Month, at its global headquarters in New York. 
 For half a day, students with disabilities wer e provided with the opportunity to 
 job shadow Colgate professionals in key ar eas of the business. This enabled them
 to gain exposure to a variety of actual jobs and potential car eers while providing a 
 firsthand perspective on our company’s cultur e and work environment.
 
Equal Pay 
We believe that people are the most important driver of our business success. Having
a diverse workforce facilitates diversity of thought and ideas, which in turn drivesbetter innovation and helps to connect us to global consumer and customer needs. To help ensure our workforce reflects the diversity of the global marketplace, Colgate is committed to pay equity and its role in fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace. It is our policy to select, place and pay all Colgate people on the basis of qualifications for the work to be performed and without discrimination. Consistent with these values, in 2016 Colgate demonstrated our commitment to pay equity by signing the White House Equal Pay Pledge through which we have committed to conducting an annual company-wide gender pay analysis across occupations in the United States, along with other steps to promote equal pay and fairness. Colgate plans to have this annual pay analysis cover race and ethnicity in addition to gender, in accordance with Colgate’s policy, to compensate each individual at a level commensurate with his or her role, work location, individual performance and experience irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity or any other category protected by law. Colgate also complies with all applicable laws and regulations related to fair pay practices.
Supplier Diversity
Our Supplier Diversity program was established in 1998. The program is embedded in our U.S. based organization with defined goals to drive growth. We drive performance through our quarterly Supplier Diversity Forums and we collaborate with our suppliers to support our goals. Our procurement teams are encouraged to seek suppliers that add value and innovation and can deliver cost savings. We have shown strong results for 2015 and 2016. 
 Our goals are to gr ow our spend with diverse suppliers by 10 percent each year 
based on our total U.S. procurement spend of $3 billion. In 2015, Colgate’s percent of spend with diverse suppliers was 5.9 percent. In 2016, diverse spend increased to  6.8 percent of total spend. 
 Aligned with our spend objectives, our teams also have objectives to deliver goals, 
which include inclusion of diversity spend requirements in contracts with first ‑tier 
suppliers, maximizing second-tier spend opportunities and execution of targeted supplier day forums to engage and build relationships. 
No. 10 2016  
Best Places for 
Women & Diverse 
Managers to Work
Diversity MBA Magazine
Peoplepage 33 We maintain accountability by incorporating these objectives for Supplier Diversity 
for procurement buyers and managers. Our competitive proposal processes include 
diverse suppliers. Our supplier diversity database provides current/potential suppliers to support and assist with our business needs. We also collaborate with our internal stakeholders in identification of needs and research for diverse suppliers with relevant capabilities and engagement between the stakeholders and these companies.
 We have delivered growth with our supplier partners in several categories:
	n Over the last two years Derive, which is Colgate’s pr eferred supplier for   
 peripherals and accessories for all computer-r elated items, has experienced a  
 spend increase of 50 per cent with Colgate.
	n Our partnership with US Chemicals increased in spend by 15 per cent across a  
 portfolio of materials in eight categories.
	 
 Colgate is a member or active participant in the following Supplier Diversity 
organizations: 
 NMSDC—National Minority Supplier Development Council
	n Leadership Team
	n The Working Group (Consumer Products and other Companies)
 New York/New Jersey Minority Supplier Development Council
	n Chairman of the Board
	n Mentoring Program—Accelerate 2020
	n Certification Committee
 Women’s Business Enterprise National Council 
	n Certification Committee
 Women’s President Education Organization 
	n Certification Committee
 Institute of Supply Management/National
	n Member of the Supplier Diversity Group Boar d—Affiliate’s Chair
 National Gay Lesbian Chamber of Commerce
	n Procurement Council
 New York City Small Business Services 
	n Corporate Alliance Partner (CAP)
	n Educational workshops taught by Colgate Procur ement staff
	n Annual Procur ement Fair
We also recognize our diverse suppliers for the value-added solutions, cost savings and continuous improvement they have provided over the years. We have recognized some of our suppliers as well for their participation and contributions in support of Supplier Diversity by utilizing and mentoring diverse businesses for success. Supplier Diversity 
Recognition
 
Colgate has been 
recognized and awarded 
for various contributions 
in Supplier Diversity. The 
following recognitions 
were received in 2016: 
Top 50 Corporations 
for Diversity by 
Diversitybusiness.com
n
Women’s President 
Education Organization 
Recognized for 
Commitment to the 
Success of Women 
Business Enterprises
n	
NY/NJ Minority 
Supplier Development 
Appreciation Award 
for Outstanding 
Contribution and 
Commitment
n
Minority Business 
News—Corporate 
Buyers of the Year
n
Minority Business 
News—2016 
Champions of Supplier 
Diversity
n
Award of Excellence— 
Odyssey International 
Productions
n	
100 Black Men 
Advocacy Award
n	
WE Magazine Women 
Impacting Supplier 
Diversitypage 34
PeopleConsumer Diversity 
Developing brand affinity and loyalty, especially among diverse consumers, is a key priority for growth and success 
at Colgate. With a wide array of initiatives and campaigns, Colgate holds diverse consumers at its core. When Colgate says, “Everyone deserves a future they can smile about,” we mean everyone.
To promote the importance of education among Latinos and help get them on the path to higher education, Colgate presents Haz la U™ educational grant program. Now in its eighth year and with more than 170 scholarships awarded, the initiative is committed to prepare future generations of Latinos and to give them the tools to become leaders in their communities. Bringing People Together—
Smile with Pride
Colgate continues to focus on the power of a 
smile to bring people together. Sometimes a smile is all you need! Colgate is all about celebrating diversity. As part of these efforts and to celebrate inclusiveness, Colgate’s first digital commercial portraying a LGBT couple was created, followed by social media sharing that reached over 60 million consumers. #SmileWithPride #ColgateSmile
The success of this long-standing education initiative has inspired Colgate to initiate a new partnership with Black Girls CODE, an organization focused on helping young girls of color learn computer programming. 
Creating a Brighter Future—Educational Scholarships
Colgate continues to focus on promoting higher education and presents initiatives such as Haz la U™ (Make the University), a scholarship program in partnership with educational leader Hispanic Heritage Foundation, alongside a new partnership with Black Girls CODE to help support the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) initiatives.
Peoplepage 35Chemicals
Injury and Illness 
ManagementNoise/Physical 
Hazards
Equipment and 
Operational 
HazardsHierarchy of 
Controls/Hazard 
Communication
Materials 
Handling and 
StorageErgonomics
Temporary Labor, 
Contractors  
and FacilitiesLaboratories
Process SafetyOccupational 
Medical 
Standards
Fire and Loss 
PreventionOccupational Health and Safety
The health and safety of our employees and the 
communities in which we operate is paramount in all we do. Our goal is zero incidents. Colgate people around the world are committed to being “Colgate Careful” by maintaining a robust safety culture and healthy and safe 
working conditions.  Colgate’s global occupational health and safety program is grounded in our Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) Standards. While we do not participate in the OHSAS 18001 certification system, our management system and technical standards expectations are well aligned with that system.
 Colgate sites are expected to self-assess 
conformance with our standards and local regulations at 18-month intervals. Corporate audits are conducted every three to five years, closure progress is reported quarterly and verification audits are conducted to provide closure assurance. Third-party industrial hygiene firms also review our operations annually to ensure occupational health exposures are well controlled. Any identified exposures are managed using the hierarchy of controls. Closure of previously 
identified exposures is verified by the third ‑party 
industrial hygiene provider.  We also provide numerous safety training programs 
as an important part of our safety management 
strategy. We offer 150 e ‑learning courses available in 
as many as eight languages. Courses cover a range of topics such as EOHS incident management, hearing conservation, ergonomics in the workplace, confined space entry, fire safety emergency, safe work practices and industrial hygiene. We also conduct evacuation drills across our sites ensuring we are prepared in the event of unforeseen circumstances.Focus Areas of Colgate’s Occupational Health and Safety Standards
SafetyOccupational Healthpage 36
Peopleper 200,000 work hours
00.51.01.52.02.5
Total Recordable Rate              Lost Workday Case Rate   
2013 2012 2014 2015 2016 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998Global Safety Statistics (1)
President’s Safety 
Awards
The President’s Safety 
Awards Program 
recognizes Colgate 
sites as they achieve 
specific milestones. 
In 2016, 60% of our 
manufacturing 
facilities received 
one or more awards.
 2016 was the safest year in the history of the 
company, with no work-related fatalities. Our total 
recordable rate (TRR) fell 13 percent to 0.28 and our lost work case rate (LWCR) fell 44 percent to 0.05. 
 In 2016, for the first time, we have used an 
independent third-party to verify our health and safety data collection and reporting processes as well as 
the data itself . As part of this project, the number of 
hours worked, number of lost-time incidents, number 
of recordable incidents and number of occupational fatalities were verified. 
2016 Safety Highlights
Risk-Based Management
We continue our work to sharpen the focus on risk-based safety management with a goal to eliminate fatalities and serious incidents. This approach involves an assessment of the severity of an event as well as the degree of control over the outcome. In 2015, we began requiring our manufacturing sites to prepare an annual risk assessment and preventive and corrective action plan. This expectation has been formally incorporated into our EOHS Management System and is reviewed during management reviews and audits to ensure our most significant risks are adequately controlled.
 As mentioned in our 2015 Sustainability Report, 
electrical safety was identified as one of our highest life safety risks. We are pleased to advise that nearly all high ‑risk findings from the safety assessment of our 
power distribution systems conducted by a third-party have been addressed.
Fork Truck Safety
Given the nature of our operations, fork trucks are widely used in our manufacturing sites and warehouses. In 2016, a team of EOHS professionals from across North and Latin America developed a mapping and risk assessment process to minimize the potential for fork truck/pedestrian accidents. Based on the team’s recommendations we created a risk assessment process, established pedestrian fork truck traffic maps and installed blue awareness lights on the majority of our fork trucks.(1) Subject to final certification by third ‑party auditor. 
Peoplepage 37Reducing Noise, Dust and Chemical Exposures
Colgate has been working to reduce noise, dust and 
chemical exposures in our facilities for many years. Our goal is to reduce the number of people who must wear hearing protectors or chemical cartridge respirators for a full shift. We are making positive progress:
n For mandatory use of hearing protection, the base -
line figure in December 2014 was 49 percent. As of December 2016, we had reduced our percentage to 42 percent. 
n For mandatory use of respirators, our baseline figur e 
at the end of 2014 was 5.3 percent. As of December 2016, we had reduced our percentage to 3.2 percent.
Colgate measures exposure levels with the help of 
third‑party providers in the field of industrial hygiene. 
We compare the data collected against the lower of any relevant national regulatory limit or the Threshold Limit Values (TLVs). TLVs are health-based exposure standards established by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, and Colgate applies those limits globally. The comparison of exposure data against the exposure standards allows us to make data-driven decisions on engineering controls and practices.
Reducing Ergonomic Exposure
In 2015, Colgate rolled out a global program to reduce ergonomics risk. Manufacturing sites and technology centers are working to complete the Ergo Top 5 actions. This program focuses on risk assessment, risk reduction, engineering controls and training. Since its launch, Colgate has made significant progress in the completion rates. As we closed 2016, we had achieved 85 percent completion of the program’s elements.  
 Colgate has started using collaborative robots to 
drive efficiency and reduce the amount of repetitive or ergonomically challenging tasks completed by workers. As we bring this new technology into our manufacturing operations, we are following ISO 10218-1, ISO 15066 and RIA TR R15306 guidelines. This system helps us identify potential or reasonably foreseeable contact between operator and robot system, understand the risks, assess occurrence of exposure and develop a risk reduction model that targets elimination of hazards. 
Safety Incentives
We have improved our safety-related incentive mechanisms by linking compensation to behaviors that drive a robust safety culture. These behaviors include training completion, physical inspections, corrective action completion, behavioral observations and participation in activities which engage employees. We do not link compensation to recordable rates and lost-time accidents.
2016 Safety Week Highlights
Safety Week is our annual opportunity to provide employee engagement events and activities to continue to demonstrate and celebrate our commitment to our EOHS Guiding Principles and foster the safety culture at each of our sites. Each March, Colgate holds a company-wide Safety Week, sharing best practices and refreshing our focus on health and safety. This week remains a cornerstone of our safety culture and provides an opportunity to focus on fundamentals, and each facility’s own creativity delivers a solid and exciting week year on year. Several Safety Week events also include Colgate families in fun and educational activities. Colgate’s 2016 Safety Week themes were fork truck safety, working at elevated sites and lockout/tagout, which are important for Colgate people at all of our facilities. 
page 38
Peoplen In Anzio, Italy, Safety W eek involved training in 
forklift safety, ergonomics and working at heights. 
Events also included Colgate employees’ families engaging in educational activities. n In 2016, San Luis, Argentina or ganized a variety of activities 
for the Safety Week, including a review and update of the lockout/tagout procedures, a workshop on safe handling of forklifts, training on laboratory biosafety and a review of safety billboards and meeting points. The Emergency Brigade conducted drills on fire and workplace accidents. 
n Baddi, India opened Safety Week by forming a human 
safety sign with employees. Safety messages were communicated through safety badges and banners. Employees attended a personal protective exhibition, received scaffolding training and took a quiz on workplace safety. Posters were also prepared by workers focusing on the significance of safety measures.
n In addition to workshops on working at heights 
and forklift safety, in Gebze, Turkey, employees celebrated Safety Week with creative activities including a safety crossword puzzle, safety theater and “Hit the Risk” competition.n Colgate’s Jaguare and 
Via Anchieta, Brazil plants held “Find Seven Errors” workshops, testing employee knowledge of working at heights and workplace safety.
n Colgate’s plant in Guatemala opened Safety 
Week by raising awareness through different communication channels, including a “Safety Begins with Me” badge and distribution of training booklets on workplace safety.n Colgate’s Bangpakong, 
Thailand plant opened their Safety Week activities with a celebration of nine million hours without a  lost workday.
Peoplepage 39Responsible Sourcing
Third Party Code of Conduct
Colgate people are committed to the highest standards of integrity and full compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct. It is our goal to ensure that our relationships with our suppliers and business partners reflect and support the same high ethical standards.
 Colgate’s Thir d Party Code of Conduct sets the 
Company’s expectations for suppliers and business partners in a number of critical areas, including labor practices and universal human rights, protecting the environment, health and safety and ethical dealings. Sections of the Third Party Code are modeled on, or contain language from, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the standards of the International Labor Organization.
 The Code is provided to suppliers and business 
partners, and Colgate’s contracts and purchase orders typically require suppliers to abide by the Code’s standards (or suppliers’ comparable code standards), including applicable labor and equal employment laws as well as Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety regulations, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Colgate’s Anti-Bribery Policy. Certain suppliers are also required to acknowledge the Third Party Code’s requirements via our online supplier portal.
Assessing and Managing Supplier Risk
As a multinational company with a global supply chain, adverse actions and events associated with our supply chain could affect Colgate’s reputation as a responsible company. To manage the risk to our company and to the workers in our supply chain, Colgate has a formal process to identify and manage social, ethical and environmental risks in our supply chain and with other business partners. Colgate’s Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment (SRSA) program requires selected suppliers and business partners to complete a self-assessment focused on labor practices, human rights, worker health and safety, environmental management and business integrity. Risk factors considered in the selection of suppliers to participate in the program include: geographic risks (using the Verisk Maplecroft Risk Indexes), Colgate’s in-country knowledge, industry-associated risks and business criticality to our operations. Through the use of a supplier risk assessment scorecard, selected suppliers and business partners are scored against critical risk factors to determine the need to conduct a social compliance audit. When a supplier is assessed as high risk, a third-party audit of their facility is required. To date, Colgate has assessed over 500 supplier and business partner facilities via the SRSA program, commissioned over 150 site audits and reviewed an additional 175 supplier audits commissioned on behalf of other supplier customers.
  As a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange 
(Sedex), Colgate uses the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit protocol when required to assess suppliers’ compliance with laws covering freedom of association, forced and child labor, health and safety, wages and benefits, working hours and discrimination as well as environmental and business ethics matters. If any areas of noncompliance are detected during the audit, we work with the supplier to ensure these concerns are promptly remedied and the closure of all such noncompliances is independently verified. The most frequent noncompliances identified during audits relate to worker health and safety, working hours and management systems. This assessment program is part of our supplier qualification process.
 Since the program’ s inception in 2012, Colgate 
has assessed more than 75 percent of our spend with suppliers in high-risk geographies, including raw material and packaging suppliers, contract manufacturers, copacking facilities and warehousing operations. Internally, Colgate has also completed assessments of all manufacturing facilities and conducted social compliance audits at all facilities located in high-risk geographies. page 40
People Colgate is also a member of AIM-PROGRESS, a global industry forum dedicated 
to the promotion of responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production 
systems. Colgate has served on its leadership team for the past three years. Through the principle of mutual audit recognition, suppliers share noncompetitive audit data with other manufacturing companies that often share the same suppliers, enabling us to gain information more efficiently and relieving the burden of “audit fatigue” on suppliers. 
 To further drive improvement in our supply chain, Colgate has participated in 
capacity-building sessions through the AIM-PROGRESS forum that are designed to improve suppliers’ social and environmental performance. The sessions explain the responsible sourcing assessment process and prepare suppliers for assessments and audits of their facilities and provide guidance for suppliers seeking to develop their own responsible sourcing programs. We have participated in events in Latin America and North America. In addition, Colgate conducts similar independent supplier responsible sourcing training events for our suppliers. Forced LaborIn line with the Consumer Goods Forum’s (CGF) recently announced Social Resolution on Forced Labor, Colgate joins CGF in acknowledging the broad societal problem of modern slavery and commitment to eradicate forced labor from supply/value chains. 
 Colgate does not use forced labor within our own operations. W e will strive to 
eradicate forced labor from our supply/value chains. We believe that every worker should have freedom of movement, no worker should pay for a job and no worker should be indebted or coerced to work. Moreover, it is Colgate’s policy not to work with any supplier or contractor known to operate with forced labor.
 Colgate complies with the California T ransparency in Supply Chains Act, and our 
disclosure statement is available on colgatepalmolive.com/sustainability. Later in 2017, we will also meet the disclosure requirements of the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act 2015. Conflict MineralsColgate supports ending the violence and human rights violations by armed groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and neighboring countries that have been funded in part by proceeds from the mining of cassiterite, columbite-tantalite (coltan), wolframite and gold, including their derivatives tin, tantalum and tungsten (3TGs). For more information, see Colgate’s Policy on Conflict Minerals.Supplier 
Responsible 
Sourcing 
Assessments
Through the Supplier 
Responsible Sourcing 
Assessment program, 
Colgate has assessed 
the performance of  
more than 75% of our 
suppliers in high-risk 
geographies since 
2012, driving improved 
working conditions 
for more than 30,000 
employees across our 
external supply chain.
Peoplepage 412012  700
2013  750
2014  800
2015  850
2016  900
2020 1,300GoalMillions of Children Reached Through Bright Smiles, Bright Futures
Contributing to Communities
Promoting Oral Health
In 2016, Colgate celebrated the 25th year anniversary of 
the Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program, which builds shared value for both Colgate and society, enabling Colgate to make a significant impact in the communities where we live and work while engaging with consumers to build our brand value. We celebrated our anniversary all year long with our consumers, educators, retail partners, dental professionals and children.
 Just as toothpaste has evolved from a cosmetic 
product to one that many people use each day, so have Colgate’s oral health programs. In fact, BSBF is implemented differently around the globe, from a fleet of mobile dental vans in the U.S. to partnering with the Phelophepa Train in South Africa, to specifically designed delivery vehicles in India, all designed to reach smiles in need and educate kids on the importance of oral health.
 As a leading provider of oral car e products, Colgate 
has the unique ability to educate and improve the oral health of children and their families. Colgate’s flagship Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program is among the most far-reaching, successful children’s oral health initiatives in the world. 
 Through BSBF , volunteer dentists visit local 
communities to conduct free dental screenings and treatment referrals and educate children and their families about the importance of maintaining good oral health. Colgate also distributes toothpaste and toothbrushes as well as award-winning educational materials, including videos, books, software and activities in over 30 languages for use in the classroom or at home. In many countries, the materials have become part of the permanent school curriculum. 
 Colgate partners with numerous or ganizations 
including international dental/health associations, leading academic institutions, government and non-governmental organizations such as the Alliance for a Cavity-Free Future, the Global Child Dental Fund, the American Dental Association and the National Dental Association.page 42
People“Educating children about 
proper oral hygiene habits is 
at the heart of the Colgate Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program; what many people don’t realize is that tooth decay is five times more prevalent than other chronic diseases that affect children.”
~Marsha Butler, DMD, 
Vice President of 
Global Oral Health and 
Professional Relations, 
Colgate Bright Smiles, 
Bright Futures 
Global Program Lead
According to the World Health Organization, tooth decay and dental caries (cavities) are among the most chronic diseases, affecting 60 to 90 percent of school children and nearly every adult in the world. Many children around the world do not have access to the basic dental care and education that can help prevent oral health diseases.World Health OrganizationBrighter Smiles Around the World
Colgate partners with government health agencies, NGOs and dental associations to expand the reach of oral care 
education around the world. As a founding sponsor of the Alliance for a Cavity-Free Future, Colgate has joined a worldwide group of experts seeking to promote integrated clinical and public health action in order to stop cavities initiation and progression and to move towards a cavity-free future for all ages.
n During National Brushing Day, Colgate Colombia 
partnered with the Alliance for a Cavity-Free Future, the Universidad del Valle, Secretary of Health and Education of Cali and the Academy of Pediatric Dentistry to bring oral health education to school-age children. The event involved 190,000 children from 1,144 educational institutions simultaneously brushing their teeth. This was a historic moment, aiming to raise awareness and educate the community about cavity prevention and self-care practices.n During Oral Health Month, Colgate South Africa 
launched a BSBF Campaign to create awareness and educate the community on oral health. The campaign, “Let’s Get To Zero Cavities Together,” was activated in 13 malls around the country, spanning over 26 days, providing 4,500 free screenings nationally. This advocacy campaign included an enormous media presence and well-known personalities such as Dr. Smiles, a millennial dentist who has a long-standing relationship with Colgate and BSBF involving community service.
Peoplepage 43n In India, Colgate continues to work with Jeevika, a women’s empowerment or ganization, 
to provide oral health education and access to products in rural communities in Rural Bihar 
(Eastern India), where as little as 50 percent of people use toothpaste. Supported by the World Bank and the Government of Bihar, Jeevika works with a self-help group model at the village and household level to improve livelihood and reduce vulnerability of the rural population of Bihar. The Jeekiva network reaches over two million households in Bihar through various village organizations. Colgate is one of the first to partner with Jeevika, working to leverage women’s roles as change agents to improve oral care habits. “Maukhik Swasthya Mitras” (Oral Health partners) in the Jeekiva village or ganizations receive oral car
 e 
certification and act as ambassadors to teach households about pr oper oral care and drive 
behavior change in the community
. At the same time, Colgate is reaching children and their 
families in the region through the BSBF program as well as engaging rural retailers.
n The Departments of Health and Education, Pick 
n’ Pay and The Dental Wellness Trust, an NGO in the Western Cape of South Africa, partnered with Colgate to educate, promote and instill good oral health habits in preschools in squatter camp areas in Khayelitsha Township. Teachers were trained on oral health education to reinforce this message to children throughout the year. Through this collaboration, in 2016 10,000 children between the ages of four and six were educated.n In 2016, BSBF launched its very first campaign 
in Algeria. A dental screening area along with five workshops were held in a public park, providing oral health education to children between ages five to nine. More than 50 volunteers were involved in this three-day event, reaching 2,000 children. Of the check-ups provided, 60 percent of the children examined had dental caries. The event was covered by three local television stations, four local radio stations and many newspapers. 
page 44
Peoplen In the Dominican Republic, 
35,000 children between the 
ages of six and eleven joined in an island-wide simultaneous brushing event on National Brushing Day. Close to 2,000 dentists volunteered their time along with Colgate people to educate children, their parents and teachers about the importance of proper brushing in a fun and engaging way. Colgate continues to partner with the Ministries of Health and Education and dental professionals to assist in driving the message of better oral health.
n Colgate India, in partnership with the Indian Dental 
Association has been working towards educating consumers on adopting and maintaining healthy oral hygiene in their daily lives. In India, Colgate’s Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program imparts oral health education to primary school kids between the ages of six and fourteen. Oral Health Month is a two-month long initiative where we reach out to people from all across the country through different platforms to provide them with access to dentists and provide free dental check-ups. To date, BSBF has touched the lives of 142 million children across 327,000 schools in rural India. 
Peoplepage 45n The International School in Lae, Papua New Guinea,  
was among 196 primary schools participating in this 
year’s Global Handwashing Day. Colgate partnered with the National Department of Health, World Vision, Water Aid, Anglicare and Child Fund to spread awareness. This year’s theme, “Breaking the Chain of Infection,” aimed at preventing infections from happening.Handwashing Education
The simple act of washing hands with soap is one of  the most effective ways to prevent disease transmission, especially in children. Handwashing with soap at key times, however, is not widely practiced. As a leading marketer of bar and liquid soaps, Colgate is working with public health officials, academia, local schools and clinics to educate millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene benefits of handwashing with soap. Colgate’s global handwashing program provides educational materials and sample products to schools and communities and builds awareness through advertising and public relations campaigns. In some countries, Colgate teaches handwashing as part of our BSBF program, building the steps for proper handwashing into the oral care curriculum and messaging. Like the oral care component of BSBF , the program creates shared value for both Colgate and society, helping to improve health outcomes while building brand awareness and reputation for Colgate’s Palmolive and Protex soap brands.
 
n The Fijian government r ecognizes October 15th as 
National Handwashing Day. Colgate, through our brand Protex, partnered with the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, UNICEF and school and community hygiene programs to foster and support a global and local culture of handwashing with soap. This year’s theme, “Make 
Handwashing a Habit,” was celebrated over a two ‑
week period. Health teams were mobilized to coordinate programs in participating schools, providing them with soap, tissues and educational materials. In its first year, it was celebrated in one primary school of about 900 students. In 2016, the program has expanded reaching 288 schools and 118,000 students and community members. 
Handwashing Highlights:page 46
Peoplen	Colgate was one of the nine founding members of the Global 
Handwashing Day campaign, along with partners such as the  World Bank and UNICEF . Celebrated October 15th, Global Handwashing Day drives awareness of the vital importance of handwashing with soap and its impact on health.
n Through the Palmolive brand’s Clean Hands, Good Health program in Australia 
and New Zealand, we promote handwashing awareness to children and their families by providing preschool education kits with posters, storybooks and teacher’s guides, distributing 8,000 preschool education kits in 2016. Since 2009, Clean Hands, Good Health has reached almost two million preschool children and their families. The campaign aims to teach preschool children the importance of handwashing and to ensure good hand hygiene habits are carried throughout their lives.
n A commitment to support WASH, or water , sanitation and hygiene, program 
is part of Colgate’s Water Stewardship Strategy and our commitment to partner with local and global organizations to bring clean water to underserved areas of the world. Through our partnership with Water For People, Colgate supports programs that provide access to clean water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education, including handwashing. Colgate contributed to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program, helping them to reach nearly 338,000 people since 2013.n For more than 14 years, Protex has been carrying out the campaign 
called “Hygiene and Health Go Hand in Hand” in 11 Latin American countries. It aims to raise awareness about the importance of hand hygiene in preserving general health and motivating our consumers to reinforce their hygiene habits. This is made possible with an extensive shopper program and partnerships with government entities and schools. Shopper programs in Colombia, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Costa Rica use handwashing stations help teach consumers proper handwashing techniques.
Peoplepage 47Peoplepage 48
Helping Pets Find a Home
Through the Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love program, 
Colgate partners with animal shelters across the U.S. to provide Hill’s Science Diet pet food at a discount. Developed by veterinarians and nutritionists, Hill’s Science Diet offers superior nutrition for pets. Hill’s also provides shelters with training, digital tools and content and shelter visuals. For pet owners, Hill’s provides Science Diet adopter kits with coupons and Your New Best Friend Guide digital books. Hill’s believes that making premium nutrition accessible to every shelter—and every pet—helps send them home faster. Our mission is to help enrich and lengthen the special relationship between people and their pets. Whether a shelter has 100 or 10,000 adoptions a year, the goal is to ensure that every pet goes home healthy and happy. That means nourishing every pet that arrives at the shelter with Science Diet and sending a Science Diet adopter kit home with every new adoption. Through this partnership, the Company provided pet food with a retail value of more than $3.3 million in 2016, which adds up to over $288 million to nearly 1,000 shelters since the program’s inception in 2002. These donations have helped more than eight million pets—and counting—find their forever homes. Hill’s employees are also engaged in helping pets in need. In 2016, Hill’s supported 33 different shelters with over 50 special events across the United States. 
  In recognition of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency’s National Animal Disaster Preparedness Day on May 14, 2016, Hill’s joined with its network of animal shelter partners to encourage pet parents to fully consider their pets in emergency planning. In 2016, Hill’s enlisted the help of 65 of the over 800 shelters it supports through the Hill’s Food, Shelter & Love program to help raise awareness of the importance of having a pet-inclusive emergency plan in place. Hill’s suggests families build a Pet Emergency Go-Kit to store with the rest of the family’s emergency preparations with items such as first aid supplies, food, water and other essentials to care for a pet away from home.
 Hill’s also partners to provide food shipments to 
shelters in the event of an emergency through the Hill’s Disaster Relief Network, a formalized U.S. emergency network for pets. Working with more than 100 existing shelter partners, Hill’s is prepared to respond quickly with food shipments for pets affected by disasters, whether to feed displaced pets and pets belonging to displaced people, or to provide food to families, allowing them to keep their pets with them. In 2016, Hill’s responded to 16 emergencies across the U.S., from tornadoes to wildfires and floods.
Additionally, Hill’s provides South Africa Parks Hill’s 
Science Plan Performance dog food for the anti-poaching dogs working at Greater Kruger National Park at reduced cost. Using Hill’s Performance allows the dogs to work at their peak-whether tracking or searching for weapons or other biological agents such as rhino horn. The dogs are credited with not only saving many rangers’ lives but reducing poaching to a level that has halted the decline in the number of rhinos.Supporting service animals
Community Giving
Colgate contributes both funding and products to a wide range of charities and 
community organizations around the world. Colgate also partners with retailers, consumers and our employees to raise funds. Driven by Colgate’s core value of Caring and supported by the involvement of Colgate people, our Global Giving Program makes a difference in the communities we serve by supporting organizations that address health and educational disparities. 
 Colgate’s giving priorities ar e 1) creating educational opportunities, 2) advancing 
health and well-being, and 3) engaging Colgate people.2016 Contributions
$30.2
 million*
Highlights
Creating Educational Opportunities
n The Colgate Women’ s Games debuted in 1973 with 
5,000 New York area competitors. Today, more than 
11,500 athletes across the East Coast—from Boston to Georgia—come out to compete. The Colgate Women’s Games continue to be the largest women’s amateur indoor track and field series in the U.S. and helps young girls and women develop a strong sense of personal achievement and self-esteem, value teamwork and discover the importance of education. Open and free to all girls from elementary school through college and beyond, the Colgate Women’s Games have awarded more than $1 million in educational grants-in-aid. At the 2016 Olympics Games in Rio, an unprecedented six Colgate Women’s Games alumnae fulfilled their dreams before millions of people when they took the field to compete as Olympians for Team USA. These six alumnae joined a running roster of 20 other Colgate Women’s Games participants who have gone on to earn the prestigious title of Olympian.
n In India, Myanmar, Thailand, the Philippines and Malaysia, Colgate offers a 
scholarship contest to make a small meaningful difference in children’s lives. Past winners now attend better schools, purchase books, pay for English classes and are able to continue their studies instead of leaving to work.n In 2016, Colgate India launched its Education 
Scholarship Program for the disadvantaged children from tribal and rural areas in Udaipur, Rajasthan, India. This scholarship program will last for a period of five years and will support 25 students, primarily female children, from these areas. It will sponsor and pay for their school fees, hostel fees, study material, uniforms, travel and other support costs. In the fourth year, a review is performed to discuss the career choices of these children, which will be supported jointly by Colgate and Seva Mandir. Colgate has partnered with Seva Mandir since 2013, a nonprofit organization working towards initiatives like improving Health, Education, Women Empowerment and Youth Development. 
*Cash and in-kind contributions to charitable organizations, including spending for the Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program in Colgate’s 20 largest subsidiaries
(by oral care sales).
Peoplepage 49n Colgate teamed up with Walgr eens and Kids in Need Foundation to give students the tools 
they need for a brighter future. The Colgate Bright Smiles, Bright Futures Children’s Oral Health 
dental vans visited 66 Walgreens stores across Los Angeles, Miami and Chicago, providing free dental education, dental screenings and local treatment referral. All children screened received dental report cards and oral health kits that included toothpaste, a toothbrush and dental health materials. Additionally, Colgate invited Walgreens shoppers to help give students in need tools for a brighter future. For every Colgate Kids product purchased at participating Walgreens, Colgate donated $1 to the Kids in Need Foundation, for a minimum donation of $10,000 and a maximum donation of $25,000.Advancing Health and Well ‑being
n Colgate’s long-standing partnership with the 
Starlight Children’s Foundation is driven by the company’s value of Caring. The Starlight Children’s Foundation is a leading global charity that partners with experts to improve the health and wellness of thousands of children and families in communities around the world. Since 1989, Colgate has contributed more than $12 million to support family-centered Starlight programs such as the Starlight World online community for teens affected by chronic or serious illness, Starlight Fun Center mobile entertainment units, iPads and other critically needed items that enhance the comfort and care of children in hospitals in the U.S. to offer fun and distraction for pediatric patients.
n In South Africa, Colgate sponsors the 
Phelophepa Train, a mobile hospital that provides medical care and oral health care in communities where medical services and infrastructure are unavailable. Each year the train treats nearly 50,000 people in 37 communities.
page 50
PeopleEngaging Colgate People
n For five years, Colgate people in South Africa have 
volunteered in the local community for Earth Day. In 
2016, employees visited two underprivileged schools in Boksburg and Durban where they taught children about the importance of saving the environment and gardening. Colgate people in South Africa also volunteer during Mandela Day by planting trees, painting children’s playgrounds or visiting the sick. 
n In the aftermath of the earthquake off of coastal 
Ecuador in 2016, Colgate donated over 370,000 pieces of toiletry items. Colgate people donated their time distributing 40 tons of items to the people most affected by the earthquake. 
n In Colombia, Colgate partnered with the Animal Safe 
Foundation and volunteered in the event “Bathe a Four-Legged Buddy.” Colgate volunteers washed 100 dogs and donated one ton of Hill’s Pet Nutrition dog food in addition to home care products.
n Tom’s of Maine continues its practice 
of giving 5 percent of profits each year to nonprofit organizations committed to causes such as human health, animal welfare, education and environmental sustainability. In 2016, Tom’s of Maine donated a quarter of a million dollars to The Nature Conservancy, with funding directed towards water conservation efforts. Plans include important watershed restoration projects in Minnesota and Massachusetts as well as a national awareness and engagement campaign.n Our Therwil, Switzerland Campus rolled 
up their sleeves and contributed to local communities during their first official Colgate Cares Day in 2016. Volunteers gave their time in activities such as teaching oral care to refugee children, caring for 100 dogs and cats at an animal shelter, spending time with the elderly at a retirement home, cleaning up the forest near our campus and donating 300 sunflowers to the community to help save the bumblebees.
Peoplepage 51Performancepage 52
Performance at Colgate is more than just 
financial strength—it is our commitment to 
grow the business with innovative, more 
sustainable products that make the lives of 
consumers healthier and more enjoyable.Performancepage 53
   41%
Approximately 41%  
of our packaging materials  
by weight globally  
come from recycled sources
(1) The performance results are based on representative new products and product updates evaluated against 
comparable Colgate products, considering a 2015 baseline, across seven impact areas to characterize likely 
improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data.
(2) Packages meeting all three criteria are considered recyclable: 1) the package is made of a material that is 
widely accepted for recycling, 2) the package can be separated into material(s) that can be recycled, and 3) the package material can be reprocessed into a preferred valuable feedstock.
    60%
Gross profit  
margin 2016
   78%
78% of our packaging  
is recyclable(2)
   78%
Improved sustainability  
profile in 78% of new 
products(1)
$15.2
Billion  
worldwide sales  
2016
2016   
AT A 
GLANCEPerformancepage 54
Financial Strength
(1) 2013–201 6 exclude charges related to the 201 2 Restructuring Program. 201 2 excludes costs related to the sale of land in Mexico. A complete 
reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on 
Colgate’s website and on page 122 of this report. 
(2) 2016 excludes a gain from the sale of land in Mexico, charges related to the 2012 Restructuring Program and certain other items. 20 15 excludes a gain 
from the sale of the Company’s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific, charges related to the deconsolidation of the Company’s Venezuelan operations, charges related to the 201 2 Restructuring Program and certain other items. 201 3 and 201 4 exclude charges related to the 201 2 Restructuring 
Program, remeasurement charges resulting from devaluations and effective devaluations in Venezuela and certain other items. 20 12 excludes charges 
related to the 201 2 Restructuring Program and certain other items. A complete reconciliation between reported results (GAAP) and results excluding 
these items (Non-GAAP), including a description of such items, is available on Colgate’s website and on page 122 of this report.
(3) All per share amounts have been restated for the 201 3 two-for-one stock split.Net Sales  
($ billions)Gross Profit Margin  (1)  
(% of sales)Diluted Earnings  (2)(3)  
($ per share)Dividends Paid  (3)  
($ per share)
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’122.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)2.81(2) 1.50
1.42
1.33
1.221.55
2.36 2.3816.0 17.3 17.4
17.1
15.2
1.522.572.72
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’1258.7(1)58.7(1) 58.8(1)
58.3(1)60.3(1)
58.6 58.5
58.160.0
58.6
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’122.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)2.81(2) 1.50
1.42
1.33
1.221.55
2.36 2.3816.0 17.3 17.4
17.1
15.2
1.522.572.72
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’1258.7(1)58.7(1) 58.8(1)
58.3(1)60.3(1)
58.6 58.5
58.160.0
58.6
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’122.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)2.81(2) 1.50
1.42
1.33
1.221.55
2.36 2.3816.0 17.3 17.4
17.1
15.2
1.522.572.72
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’1258.7(1)58.7(1) 58.8(1)
58.3(1)60.3(1)
58.6 58.5
58.160.0
58.6
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’12
 ’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’122.81(2)2.93(2)
2.84(2)
2.68(2)2.81(2) 1.50
1.42
1.33
1.221.55
2.36 2.3816.0 17.3 17.4
17.1
15.2
1.522.572.72
’16 ’15 ’14 ’13 ’1258.7(1)58.7(1) 58.8(1)
58.3(1)60.3(1)
58.6 58.5
58.160.0
58.62016 Net Sales by Geographic Region  2016 Net Sales by Market MaturityHill's Pet Nutrition
Africa/EurasiaAsiaEurope/South PacificLatin AmericaNorth AmericaNorth America  21%
Latin America 24%
Europe 16% 
Asia Pacific 18%   
Africa/Eurasia 6%
Hill’s Pet Nutrition 15%
Emerging Markets
Developed MarketDeveloped Markets 51%
Emerging Markets 49% Hill's Pet Nutrition
Africa/EurasiaAsiaEurope/South PacificLatin AmericaNorth AmericaNorth America
 21%
Latin America 24%
Europe 16% 
Asia Pacific 18%   
Africa/Eurasia 6%
Hill’s Pet Nutrition 15%
Emerging Markets
Developed MarketDeveloped Markets 51%
Emerging Markets 49% Performancepage 55
Colgate’s Global Brands
Personal Care 20%  of Net Sales
Home Care 18%  of Net Sales Pet Nutrition 15%  of Net SalesOral Care 47%  of Net SalesPerformancepage 56
Consumer-Driven Innovation
Every day, people around the world use Colgate 
products to care for themselves, their families and their pets. Colgate delights shoppers with innovative products that meet their needs, exceed their expectations and add value to their lives. Colgate’s nine consumer innovation centers, situated close to consumers in different parts of the world, are focused on developing insight-driven innovation. Operating in over 200 countries and territories across four major product categories that encompass over 20 subcategories, Colgate launches over 600 new products and product updates every year.
 To ensure that the products we develop meet 
consumer expectations, Colgate is committed to listening and engaging directly with people around the world. Each year, over 1,000 studies are conducted to gather learning and understanding of the needs of families and individuals, even before a single item of a new product is sold. To ensure that our commercial teams stay close to the users of our products, we undertake “Getting External” programs that help build our deep understanding of local tastes and habits across categories. Over the last two years, hundreds of activities have been undertaken involving Colgate employees in multiple locations. Example activities include shop-alongs with mothers in South Africa, in-home conversations with millennials in the Philippines and visiting young men in India. All of these activities led to the discovery of key consumer insights, unmet consumer needs and opportunities for performance improvement in existing products.
 We also listen to consumer feedback on our 
products. Colgate’s Global Consumer Affairs department manages consumer relations around the world, covering 96 percent of Colgate’s business. Our team strives to provide the very best consumer care to make it easy for people to reach the company, have their messages heard and problems solved and give them confidence in having an advocate for their cause or message within the company.
 Some recent enhancements include broadening our 
accessibility to the Colgate consumer with the opening of new native-language contact centers in Asia, Europe and Russia. Further, beyond social media engagement, there is increased deployment of chat service, most recently with Colgate Australia and for our Tom’s of Maine brand.
 The quality of caring service is highly important to us 
to be respectful of people who reach out for help. We continue with ongoing satisfaction surveys globally to learn how to continuously improve our service to give our consumers reasons to smile.
 In addition, we regularly monitor key performance 
indicators for our phone service in several regions around the world, striving for 100 percent satisfaction. In our 2016 surveys, 95 percent of consumers who called us in North America were “satisfied” or “very satisfied” with our service.
Stronger consumer engagement begins with better 
insights. We are obtaining deeper and more meaningful consumer insights and using them to strengthen product development, packaging and the communications we deliver through our integrated marketing campaigns.Engaging to Build Our Brands with ConsumersPerformancepage 57
Product Sustainability at Colgate
Product sustainability at Colgate means a continued commitment to safe, sustainable, high-quality products that 
consumers can trust. As part of our 2015 to 2020 Sustainability Strategy, we have committed to increase the sustainability profile in all new products we produce and in the balance of our portfolio. Increasingly, consumers are purchasing products that both meet their needs and have a reduced environmental and social footprint. At Colgate we are working to meet that expectation by:
n Driving Sustainability Through Our Product 
 Categories  
 We are continuing to implement product category
  sustainability strategies outlined on pages 58–65
  that align with and support our 2020 Sustainability
  Strategy.
n Improving the Product Sustainability Profile  of Our Products  Consistent with our value of continuous improve-
 ment, collaborative teams across the Colgate world
  are coming together to develop products with an 
 improved sustainability profile that continue to meet 
 and exceed consumer expectations. Changes and 
 opportunities to improve pr oduct sustainability 
 are considered throughout the product development 
 process by multiple functions. Annually, new 
 products planned for launch are reviewed with 
 our Product Sustainability Scorecard ( page 66).n Delivering Safe and Sustainable Ingredients  
 Colgate remains committed not only to making safe   
 products, but also to making those products with   
 ingredients and processes that have minimal impact   
 on the world around us ( page 69).
n Delivering More Sustainable Packaging  We are doing our part in the closed loop economy by increasing the recyclability of our packaging and increasing the amount of recycled content in our packaging (page 71).
n Providing Access to Affordable Products 
 We continue to expand access to affordable health 
and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities (page 74).
Performancepage 58
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product Categories: Oral Care
Colgate is embedding sustainability across our Oral Care category. With our products and our oral health education 
programs, we are improving oral health around the world and helping to reduce cavities, one of the most chronic global diseases. We are also promoting water conservation awareness to consumers, encouraging them to turn off the faucet when brushing their teeth. We are improving the ingredient sustainability profile of our products, remov-ing PVC from toothbrush packaging and reducing the environmental footprint of our Oral Care factories.
Supply of Raw and Packaging Materials
n Responsible sourcing of palm oils
n  Utilizing recycled content in our cartons
n  Responsible sourcing of paperboard for our cartons  
  and cases
n Conducting Supplier Responsible Sourcing  
 Assessments
n Working to reduce the carbon footprint of our  
 ingredients
Product Development and Design
n Improving ingredient sustainability profile
n No use of microbeads as an ingr edient
n Driving improvement via our Pr oduct   
Sustainability Scorecard
n Partnering to develop alternatives to animal 
safety testing
Performancepage 59
Reducing Our Operational Footprint
n  87% of oral care manufacturing plants have       
 achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge for 
Industry recognition
n			Reducing water used during manufacturing
n			Four Oral Care manufacturing plants send  
    less than 5% of their waste to landfill
n			Seven LEED-NC oral care manufacturing   
   plants
n			Achieving world-class safety performance
Consumers and the Community
n Delivering oral health education through  
Bright Smiles, Bright Futures
n Providing educational scholarships
n Encouraging proper toothbrushing and use  
of toothpaste in remote areas
n Promoting water conservation awareness globally
n Improving affordability and access to oral care products
n Making toothbrush and toothpaste donations in  
times of need
n Increasing ingredient transparency
n Volunteering in our communities
Product End-of-Life
n	Driving breakthrough innovation in oral   
 care packaging recyclability
n	Removing PVC from toothbrush packaging
n	Partnering to build recycling infrastructure      
 via the Closed Loop Fund
n	Partnering with TerraCycle® around the globe
Performancepage 60
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product Categories: Personal Care
Colgate is making improvements in our Personal Care category, from improving ingredient biodegradability and 
moving towards more sustainable preservative systems, to optimizing packaging size and improving packaging recyclability. We are educating millions of children and their families around the world about the importance of handwashing with soap. We are also working to reduce our carbon and water footprint.
Supply of Raw and Packaging Materials
n	Responsible sourcing of palm oils
n	Responsible sourcing of beef tallow
n	Increasing the recycled content in our packaging
n	Responsible sourcing of paperboard for our cases
n	Conducting Supplier Responsible Sourcing  
Assessments
n	Engaging suppliers on green chemistry
n	Working to reduce the carbon footprint of  our ingredients
Product Development and Design
n	Improving ingredient biodegradability
n	Utilizing more sustainable preservative  
 systems
n	Working to meet the commitments   
 outlined in our Ingredient Safety Policy
n		Driving improvement via our Product   
  Sustainability Scorecar d
n	Partnering to develop alternatives to animal  
 safety testing
Performancepage 61
Consumers and the Community
n Providing handwashing education through Palmolive  
 and Protex brands
n Promoting water conservation awareness
n	Partnering to promote WASH support: water access, 
 sanitation and hygiene
n Increasing ingredient transparency
n Innovating to help consumers use less water
n Donating personal care pr oducts in times of need
n Volunteering in our communities
Product End -of-Life
n Increasing package recyclability 
n Optimizing packaging volume and weight
n Leading innovation with Tom’ s of Maine  
 recyclable deodorant packaging
n Partnering to build recycling infrastructur e via 
 the Closed Loop FundReducing Our Operational Footprint
n 100% of Personal Care manufacturing plants  
have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 
Challenge for Industry recognition
n Reducing water used during 
manufacturing
n One Personal Care manufacturing 
plant sends less than 5% of its waste to landfill
n Two LEED-NC Personal Care 
manufacturing plants
n Achieving world-class safety 
performance
Performancepage 62
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product Categories: Home Care
In our Home Care category, Colgate is increasing the use of recycled and recyclable plastics in our packaging 
and improving the ingredient sustainability profile of our products, including eliminating formaldehyde donors and reducing volatile organic compounds. We are also helping consumers to save energy and water with our cleaning products.
Supply of Raw and Packaging Materials
n Responsible sourcing of palm oils
n Increasing the recycled content in our packaging
n Responsible sourcing of paperboar d for our cases
n Conducting Supplier Responsible Sourcing   
 Assessments
n	Engaging suppliers on green chemistry
n Working to reduce the carbon footprint of our   
 ingredients
Product Development and Design
n Improving ingredient biodegradability
n Utilizing more sustainable pr eservative systems
n Working to meet the commitments outlined in our 
Ingredient Safety Policy
n Reducing volatile organic compounds
n Driving improvement via our Pr oduct Sustainability 
Scorecard
n Partnering to develop alternatives to animal safety testing
New Photo To Come
Performancepage 63
Consumers and the Community
n Saving consumer time and energy with fast-dry technology 
and cold water wash formulas
n Helping consumers save water with no ‑rinse fabric 
softener and easy-rinse cleaners
n Partnering to promote W ASH support: water access, 
sanitation and hygiene
n Increasing ingredient transparency
n Providing cleaning products during health epidemics
n Offering concentrated products
n Volunteering in our communities
Product End -of-Life
n	Increasing package recyclability 
n	Expanding refill package options
n	Optimizing packaging volume and weight 
n	Partnering to build recycling infrastructure 
 via the Closed Loop FundReducing Our Operational Footprint
n 77% of Home Care manufacturing plants  
 have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY ST AR   
Challenge for Industry recognition
n  Reducing water used during   
  manufacturing
n Four manufacturing plants send less  
 than 5% of their waste to landfill
n Achieving world-class safety   
 performance
Performancepage 64
Driving Sustainability Through Our Product Categories: Pet Nutrition
Hill’s Pet Nutrition is working to responsibly source its ingredients, reduce its operational footprint and provide pet 
food to shelters at a discount to help millions of dogs and cats find their for ever homes. Hill’s is also leading the 
way to W
orking Towards Zero Waste at Colgate. The first four “Zero Waste to Landfill” factories are Hill’s factories.
Supply of Raw and Packaging Materials
n Responsible sourcing of soy
n Responsible sourcing of seafood
n Responsible sourcing of paperboar d for 
 our cases
n Conducting Supplier Responsible 
Sourcing Assessments
n Engaging with packaging suppliers to 
improve logistics efficiencies
Product Development and Design
n Providing high-quality ingredients with  
 the proper balance of essential nutrients
n Creating new products and improving  
 existing ones to improve the health and  
 wellness of pets
n Driving improvement via our Product   
 Sustainability Scorecar d
Performancepage 65
Consumers and the Community
n Helping dogs and cats find their forever homes
n Providing an emergency network for pets
n Providing an online Pet Care Resource Center
n Volunteering in our communities 
n Supporting service dogs
Product End -of-Life
n Optimizing primary and secondary 
packaging
n Increasing recycled content of corrugate materials
n Encouraging consumers to recycle wet food cans 
n Partnering to build recycling infrastructure via the Closed Loop FundReducing Our Operational Footprint
n First four Zero W aste to Landfill factories in 
Colgate world
n Two LEED-NC Manufacturing Plants
n 50% of Pet Nutrition manufacturing plants 
have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry recognition
n Reducing water used during 
manufacturing
n Achieving world-class safety 
performance
Performancepage 66
Improving the Product Sustainability Profile of Our Products
In order to measure progress toward our 2020 goal to increase the sustainability 
profile in all new products we produce and in the balance of our portfolio, Colgate began evaluating new products using a Product Sustainability Scorecard in 2012. Colgate engaged Pure Strategies, a leading sustainability consultant, to validate our Product Sustainability Scorecard and the results. Pure Strategies provided the following validation statement in regard to the Colgate Product Sustainability Scorecard: “Nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard could not be used to track progress on improving the sustainability profile of new products and the balance of their portfolio.” The scorecard rates products with 25 parameters across seven impact areas: Responsible Sourcing and Raw Materials, Energy and Greenhouse Gases, Waste, Water, Ingredient 
Profile, Packaging and Social Impact. Through cross ‑functional collaboration 
across the Colgate world, we continue to make progress and have improved the sustainability profile in 78 percent of the new products and new product updates in 2016.
(1) We will continue our efforts to drive continuous improvement in the coming 
years.
2012
24%2013 
48%2014 
72%2015 
85%2016 
78%2020 Goal 
100%Percentage of New Products and Product Updates with Improved Sustainability Profile
(1) The performance results are based on representative products from the product portfolio evaluated against comparable Colgate products across seven impact 
areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data.We improved the sustainability profile in 78 percent of new products and product updates.Scorecard  
Validation
 Colgate engaged 
Pure Strategies to 
validate our Product 
Sustainability 
Scorecard.
Performancepage 67
Responsible 
Sourcing and 
Raw MaterialsIngredient 
ProfilePackaging Social  
Impact Energy and 
Greenhouse 
GasesWaste WaterColgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard Seven Impact Areas2016 Product Highlights
Colgate continues to offer more sustainable product options. Colgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard rates 
products with 25 parameters across seven impact areas.
Tom’s Long Lasting Stick Deodorant was reformulated with ingredients with an improved sustainability profile that also improves the consumer experience. Additionally, the manufacturing process was simplified saving both water and energy.
Biodent Mint Mouthwash 
was reformulated with a more sustainable preservative system.
We improved the 
process to purify the water used in Suavitel Fabric Softener in one of our plants and saved over a million gallons of water annually.
Protex Pro ‑Hidrata was reformulated 
using a glycerin by-product, which improved the environmental  ingredient profile and reduced the water and energy consumed during production.
We began using a sugarcane 
bagasse to produce paper-board for our toothpaste cartons in Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. Sugarcane bagasse has less impact on the environment, requires no bleaching, is more biodegradable and is easier to recycle. 
Performancepage 68
2016 Product Highlights2016 Product Highlights
We removed the preservative 
DMDMH, a formaldehyde 
donor, from Ajax Household Cleaner and replaced it with lactic acid—providing a more sustainable preservative system.
The PVC label on Glo Ultra 
Pekat Dishwashing Liquid was replaced with a paper label, making the package recyclable. We also added the “Save Water” message to the label to encourage consumers to conserve water when washing dishes.
The tuna used in Hill’s Ideal Balance is certified by 
Friends of the Sea. The product-to-package ratio was improved and secondary packaging was reduced, saving materials and reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with movement of finished goods.
We increased the amount 
of postconsumer recycled content in the Hill’s Science Diet Adult Sensitive Stomach and Skin packaging. In addition, key suppliers implemented environmental and energy improvements.
Optimization of secondary and tertiary 
packaging for Hill’s Digestive Care Prescription Diet reduced material consumption and greenhouse gas emissions associated with movement of finished goods.
Responsible 
Sourcing and 
Raw MaterialsIngredient 
ProfilePackaging Social  
Impact Energy and 
Greenhouse 
GasesWaste WaterColgate’s Product Sustainability Scorecard Seven Impact AreasPerformancepage 69
Delivering Safe and Sustainable Ingredients
Product Safety and Quality  
The decisions we make on ingredients are based on a thorough evaluation of the 
latest scientific evidence. When we choose an ingredient—whether to contribute to the performance of a product or to keep it safe against microorganisms—it is first prescreened by a team of Colgate scientists. Every ingredient is assessed alone and within a formula to ensure that nothing unexpected will occur. Our ingredient review assesses not just what happens in our laboratories, but also across a range of real-world conditions during manufacturing, in transportation, at the store, in consumers’ homes and after consumer use. To learn more about the science behind our products, please visit colgatepalmolive.com/en/us/corp/core-values/science-innovation.
 We continuously monitor and evaluate the safety of our ingredients, and we 
actively engage with outside experts and resources to understand emerging science and deepen our knowledge. We seek the facts so that we can make the right decisions. Where we see opportunities regarding ingredients that are raising consumer questions, we substitute with other safe ingredients that provide the same or better benefits without sacrificing quality. Through this ongoing effort, we no longer use or are on our way to eliminating some of the ingredients and preservative systems currently raising consumer questions. To learn more, visit our Ingredient Safety Policy and progress updates at colgatepalmolive.com/en/us/corp/core-values/our-policies/ingredient-safety .
 We also comply with all aspects of the European Union’s REACH regulation 
(Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances). Colgate-Rutgers 
Alliance
The Colgate-Rutgers 
Alliance was formed 
in 2015 to promote 
breakthrough advances 
in research relevant 
to consumer health 
and to expand 
scientific capabilities 
at both Colgate and 
Rutgers University. 
Scientists from Global 
Product Safety and 
Sustainability groups 
at Colgate developed 
a two-credit elective 
for Rutgers graduate 
students and 
postdoctoral fellows.
Ingredient Transparency
We recognize consumers want to know more about the ingredients in the products they use. We disclose the ingredients in Oral Care, Personal Care and Home Care products in the U.S. and Canada according to the Consumer Product Ingredient Communication Initiative (CPICI) of the American Cleaning Institute, the Consumer Specialty Products Association, and the Canadian Consumer Specialty Products Association.
 In 2016, Colgate began participating in the Smart 
LabelTM initiative. This platform is enabling consumers 
to obtain additional information about our products sold in the United States. Consumers can now find product information in many ways—smartphone, computer and telephone.
GMA Smart LabelTM InitiativePerformancepage 70
Product Safety Testing
Colgate has a long-standing policy to minimize and 
ultimately eliminate animal testing associated with the development of oral care, personal care and home care products. Central to this commitment are our 
30‑year‑long efforts to encourage the development 
of alternatives that are scientifically valid and can be accepted by scientific regulators.
 We are a leader in promoting, encouraging and 
participating in the development, validation and acceptance of non-animal testing methods worldwide, investing over a million dollars annually on research with non-animal alternatives. We work closely with worldwide regulatory agencies to examine how non-animal tests can be incorporated into their safety requirements for consumer products. More specifically, we support the European Partnership for Alternative to Animals and the Institute for In Vitro Science. Colgate actively shares its work to reduce animal use and develop alternatives so that this information can help others minimize animal use.
 Globally, there are circumstances when regulatory agencies require animal testing of oral care, personal care and home care products. In such limited instances, the tests are conducted at external testing facilities that meet strict government standards and the rigorous requirements that were established by Colgate with input from animal welfare groups. We look forward to the day when all necessary safety studies for oral care, personal care and home care products can be performed without the use of animals, and we will continue the work to make that day come sooner.
 Hill’s Pet Nutrition uses only noninvasive, humane 
research methods necessary to develop superior nutritional technology so that dogs and cats live longer, healthier lives. Importantly, Hill’s believes that any procedure that causes pain to people also causes pain to animals, and such procedures are not permitted. Hill’s breakthroughs in pet nutrition are unmatched in the pet food industry, and they have built their business and reputation on always practicing the highest ethical standards. Hill’s has an animal welfare policy, which governs all animals they touch. 
Colgate continues our commitment to finding and using alternative testing methods through support and involvement with 
the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing and the Institute for In Vitro Sciences. We actively share our work to reduce animal use and develop alternatives so that this information can help others in their search for ways to minimize animal use.Partnering to Develop AlternativesPerformancepage 71
Delivering More Sustainable Packaging
Colgate is committed to improving the sustainability profile of our packaging. Colgate’s packaging organization 
regularly evaluates materials and processes that can improve the sustainability profile of our packages. Colgate’s packaging sustainability strategy centers around the following actions:
 PVC was not used in 
any new toothbrush packaging globally  in 2016. We no longer use PVC 
shrink-wrap to bundle our Mennen Speed Stick twin packs.n Assessing the human health and environmental 
impact of our packaging where appropriate
n Striving to design products for r euse, recyclability 
and materials reduction while ensuring product integrity
n Working to minimize the volume and weight of 
our packaging and using the minimum amount of packaging required to label and protect our products
n Utilizing recycled contentn Increasing the recyclability of our packaging through 
design choices and innovation
n Expanding refill package systems in pr oduct 
categories where feasible
n Coding our packaging with recycling symbols  
where appropriate
n Supporting efforts to educate consumers 
n Supporting innovative efforts to improve local 
recycling systems
 We are also committed to do our part to participate in the closed loop economy and we recognize that 
increasingly consumers prefer packages that can be recycled. A discussion on our work to exit PVC, improve recyclability, increased recycled content and minimize weight and volume follows:
 
Exit PVC 
We are committed to exiting PVC by 2020. The most significant use of PVC in our portfolio is the toothbrush package. To meet this challenge, we are changing tooling on our finishing machines and investing over $13 million annually in alternative raw materials. In addition, we have developed plans to exit remaining uses of PVC such as shrink sleeves, labels and pouch structures.
Performancepage 72
Packages meeting all three criteria are considered recyclable:
1. The package is made of a material that is widely accepted for recycling(1)
2. The package can be separated into material(s) that can be recycled3. The package material can be reprocessed into a preferred valuable feedstockImprove Recyclability
Colgate is committed to improving the recyclability of our personal care, home care and pet nutrition packaging. 
We are also focused on achieving breakthrough innovation in oral care packaging. To drive transformation across 
the organization Colgate has begun to measure “recyclability” globally using the definition below. As of year ‑end 
2016, approximately 78 percent of our packaging is considered recyclable. 
Recyclable Packages
While opportunities remain, we are striving to deliver innovative recyclable packaging designs that meet consumer expectations and ensure product quality and integrity.Approximately 
78%  
of packages  
are recyclable  
by weight
(1) We are using the Sustainable Packaging Coalition Centralized Study on the availability of recycling to determine if a 
packaging material is widely accepted for recycling.
 We included a consumer 
recycling messaging on our 
Hill’s canned foods in 2016. Colgate’s Liquid 
Toothpaste package now comes in a fully recyclable package with a removable shrink sleeve label.
 Our Palmolive dish 
liquid package is fully recyclable. 
Performancepage 73
 Approximately 
41%  
of our package 
materials are from  
recycled sourcesIncrease Recycled Content
Colgate’s 2020 goal is to increase recycled content in our packaging to 50 percent. 
We are pleased to report a four percent increase versus 2015. As of year-end 2016, approximately 41 percent of our packaging materials by weight globally come from recycled sources. 
 Our Softsoap 
liquid handsoap bottles use 35% recycled PET.
 Many of our toothpaste cartons 
sold in Europe are made from recycled paperboard.
 Our Signature Irish 
Spring bodywash bottle uses 25% recycled PET.
Our Fabuloso bottle uses 25% recycled PET.Our Tom’s of Maine underarm deodorant packaging is made from 40% recycled polypropylene.
 Two out of three cases made in our 
Hill’s Richmond plant are made from 100% recycled cardboard.
Performancepage 74
 The global conversion from 
a push ‑pull cap to a flip ‑top 
cap for our Palmolive dish 
products reduced resin usage by over 450 metric tons in Latin America.Minimize Weight and Volume
As part of our Funding the Growth program, Colgate has long been minimizing the volume and weight of our packaging. We strive to use the minimum amount of packaging required to label and protect our products.
 We recognize the importance of reducing waste at every stage of the product life cycle, including at the end-of-
life of our products and packaging. See page 104 for more information on our programs to collect packaging waste and our commitment to work with stakeholders to drive continuous improvement in local recycling systems.
 Redesign of our 
Lady Speed Stick package reduced plastic consumption by over 300 tons annually.
Providing Access to Affordable Products 
Product sustainability at Colgate also means a commitment to providing affordable product options in our portfolio. We have established a 2020 goal to have a positive impact by expanding access to affordable health and wellness products for millions of people in underserved communities.
 We make products more affordable while maintaining 
quality with smaller sizes, refill packages and value options. We work for wide distribution so that more consumers have access to Colgate products. Offerings are customized to best reach consumers within their socioeconomic level, taking into account available household income and specific consumer needs. We are also finding ways to offer the benefits of more premium products at affordable price points. Globally, we strategically balance Colgate’s portfolio 
between base and premium tiers as appropriate for the region. This starts with in-depth learning about local consumers through consumer panels and research that allows us to understand consumers, their needs and how to best communicate with them. Products like our Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection toothpaste are targeted for usage by the whole family at an affordable price point while offerings like Colgate Total or Colgate Sensitive Pro Relief toothpastes are offered at higher price points, addressing more therapeutic needs of consumers. 
 We are continuing to expand access to affordable 
health and wellness products.
Highlights
n Doy pack and sachet packaging enables Colgate to provide access to body 
cleansers, shampoos, dish liquids, hard surface cleaners and fabric softeners to consumers in underserved communities at affordable price points.
 Our 3X 
concentrated products use less packaging.Performancepage 75
 
We partner with hundreds of thousands of retail stores, 
large and small, to sell Colgate products around the world. Treating all retail customers with fairness and integrity is a priority. We engage our customers worldwide by sharing unique shopper insights, providing innovative in-store marketing communications and merchandising techniques and developing and executing joint business planning initiatives. These activities ensure the right product assortment at each location and help to make shopping a consumer-friendly, enjoyable experience that drives increased sales for both Colgate and the retailer. 
 To ensure continued success, we track retailer 
satisfaction in 20 of Colgate’s largest subsidiaries every two years. The Company participates in a widely used industry-standard syndicated survey run by the Advantage Group. The objective is to measure our customer engagement with the goal of strengthening our performance across key markets.
 Colgate also partners with key customers to advance 
our mutual sustainability goals. We often partner to engage consumers with programs such as our Bright Smiles, Bright Futures oral health education program, TerraCycle
® and shopper programs to promote water 
conservation awareness.Partnering with Customersn In the Philippines, we supply small, low-priced items to SariSari stores. In 2016, we launched Colgate Sensitive Protection in a sachet to provide access to these health benefits at a low price point.n In Asia, we launched a new line of kids toothpaste with fun characters to engage children in their oral care at more affordable pricing than our licensed character products.
n In India, we are reaching remote villages with special compact vans. We have increased our coverage from 22,000 villages in 2012 to over 58,000 villages in 2016.
n In Cameroon, Colgate has improved coverage and customer reach by using branded motorcycles able to visit smaller towns and remote villages.
n In India, Colgate developed a 10-rupee toothpaste variant to meet the needs of consumers with a low fixed budget. In fact, over 40 percent of the stores in India that sell toothpaste now offer this product.
Performancepage 76
n In China, AS Watson partner ed with Colgate to activate the 
Save Water campaign across five cities and 176 stores. 
Leveraging World Water Day in March, the in-store and online activations educated shoppers on the issue of water scarcity and the small steps they could take in their daily lives to reduce their water consumption. Each purchase triggered a donation by Colgate to Earth Water.n In South Africa, Colgate partnered with Makro to celebrate  World Water Day and raise awareness about water  conservation. A three-month in-store shopper campaign  was conducted in all 20 Makro stores nationally.Highlights
n In Argentina, Colgate received the 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Award from Carrefour in recognition of the work conducted with Aldeas Infantiles SOS, a nonprofit organization that seeks to provide a protective environment for children in situations of social risk.
n To help consumers “upcycle” Colgate products, Colgate and TerraCycle® partnered with both 
ShopRite and Meijer stores in 2016 on a recycled playground giveaway. In-store displays drove awareness for recycling through TerraCycle
® and publicized a contest for schools to win 
a playground made from recycled toothbrushes and toothpaste tubes. Tom’s of Maine and TerraCycle
® also partnered with Hannaford stores in the U.S. to reward a school with a garden 
made from natural care waste collected through the Tom’s of Maine Natural Care Brigade. 
n Colgate partnered with Tesco to deliver the Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program in the UK and Ireland with the specific aim to educate children in a fun and engaging way on the importance of good oral health habits. This program reached over 500,000 children.
 Performancepage 77
n Colgate is a member of the American Cleaning Institute 
(ACI). We have signed the Charter for Sustainable Cleaning and participate in their metrics program and are working toward implementing a set of Essential Sustainability Procedures and Activities.
n Colgate is also committed to the European International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Product’s (AISE) Charter for Sustainable Cleaning.
n Colgate is an active member of the Home and Personal Care Sector of The Sustainability Consortium, which is committed to improving product sustainability through the development of a standardized Sustainability Measurement and Reporting System.
n Colgate is a member of the Forum for the Future Beauty and Personal Care Working Group, an industry collaboration to improve sustainability in the beauty and personal care sector.
n As a member of the Grocery Manufacturers Association, Colgate contributes to the development of the Smart Label
TM initiative. This platform will enable consumers to 
obtain additional details about products by scanning a QR code or doing an online search to reach a landing page with information on ingredients.
n Hill’s Pet Nutrition is a member of the Pet Food Sustainability Working Group, a collaboration to align on sustainability principles for the pet food industry.
n Colgate joined other companies in 2011 to found the American Institute for Packaging and the Environment, which is focused on coordinating the industry’s environmental packaging efforts.
n Colgate is a palm oil member of The Forest Trust, which is working with Colgate to meet our palm oil traceability and responsible sourcing commitments.
n Colgate is a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), which is working on solutions for the use and growth of sustainable palm oil.n Colgate is an active member of AIM-PROGRESS, serving on its leadership team. AIM-PROGRESS is a global industry forum to promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. It is a global initiative supported and sponsored by the European Brands Association in Europe and the Grocery Manufacturers Association in North America.
n Colgate continues our commitment to finding and using alternatives to animal testing through support and involvement with the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing and the Institute for In Vitro Sciences.
n Colgate is an active member of the Society of Toxicology (SOT). SOT is committed to creating a safer and healthier world by advancing the science of toxicology. In addition to supporting these broad objectives of SOT, Colgate also supports SOT specifically in the areas of research and education in the field of alternatives to animal testing. This support funds education and research for students and postdoctoral fellows and then makes grants available to in-career researchers to advance the development of non-animal methods for research and testing.
n Colgate is a Global Partner in the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC). Colgate supports SETAC’s mission to develop principles and practices for protection, enhancement and management of the environment by providing a forum where professionals can exchange ideas and discuss environmental challenges, regulations, research and development and environmental education.
n Colgate is a member of Cosmetics Europe, a European trade association for the cosmetics and personal care industry. Their research is focused on the replacement of animal testing with alternatives to animal testing. Their research supports the development, validation and regulatory acceptance of alternative test methods and 
approaches.Product Sustainability Partnerships 
Colgate partners with industry groups, non-governmental organizations and research groups around the world to 
meet our product sustainability goals and to share insights to collectively work towards more sustainable product offerings. Below are some highlights.Planetpage 78
O perating in today’s world requires an 
enhanced focus on conserving Earth’s finite 
resources, addressing climate change and maintaining the well-being of our planet for generations to come. Our planet-related commitments cover the environmental issues key to Colgate—our energy use, carbon emissions, water use and waste generation as well as our commitment to no deforestation. We are also committed to sustainably built and run facilities. We are making progress in each of our planet goals and working with partners and consumers to make Planet a priority.Planetpage 79
338
Thousand  
people reached with water  
and sanitation and/or health  
and hygiene education   
since 2013
14 
LEED ‑certified  
facilities and over  
9 additional projects 
underway 
(1) Subject to final certification by third ‑party auditor.
 “LEED” and related logos are trademarks owned by the U.S. Green      
 Building Council and are used with permission.
 81%
of palm oil, palm  
kernel oil and palm oil 
derivatives purchases  
are certified 
42%
Nearly 42% reduction  
in waste sent to landfill 
per ton of product 
manufactured  
vs. 2010 (1)
31%
Nearly 31% reduction 
in energy intensity  
vs. 2002 (1)
 48%
reduction in water use 
per ton of product 
manufactured  
vs. 2002(1)
81%
of our manufacturing facilities 
have achieved U.S. EPA 
ENERGY STAR Challenge for 
Industry recognition
41% 
Approximately 41% of our 
packaging materials by  
weight globally come from 
recycled sources
2016   
AT A 
GLANCE
  25%
reduction in  
greenhouse gas 
emissions vs. 2002 Planetpage 80
In addition to our 
Environmental 
Management System, 
Colgate also 
developed and is: 
n	
Implementing our 
Climate Strategy 
n	
Implementing our Water 
Stewardship Strategy 
n	
Working to Meet 
the Commitments 
Outlined in our No 
Deforestation Policy 
n	
Working Towards 
Zero Waste 
n	
Delivering our 
Commitment to 
Sustainable Buildings
Energy
Management
and InvestmentClimate
ResilienceLow-
Carbon
EnergyCollaboration
and
DisclosureLow-Carbon
Products and
Supply ChainsColgate’s Climate StrategyEnvironmental Management 
It is Colgate’s worldwide policy to manufacture and market our products and operate 
our facilities so that we conform to, and often exceed, applicable environmental rules and regulations. Our environmental standards, including the management systems standard, define environmental performance expectations for Colgate facilities. All Colgate facilities have a fully implemented Environmental Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) Management System covering a wide range of categories, including energy, water and waste management. Colgate’s manufacturing environmental per -
formance goals are included in our Global Supply Chain annual objectives, which are 
cascaded to site ‑level facility managers, energy managers and EOHS managers.
 Colgate sites are expected to self-assess conformance with our standar ds and 
local regulations at an 18-month interval. Corporate audits are conducted every three to five years, closure progress is reported quarterly and verification audits are conducted to provide closure assurance.
Our Climate Commitment  
At Colgate, we understand the potential consequences of climate change, and we are committed to acting responsibly and conscientiously to protect people and the environment wherever we operate. We recognize that businesses and their suppliers, customers and consumers along with other stakeholders have a vital role to play in addressing the global issue of climate change.
  Science-Based GoalsPlanetpage 81
Reducing  
Our Impact  
on Climate  
and the  
Environment The area of climate change is one of Colgate’s Key Sustainability Issues identified 
on page 10. It is a key focus for our business from both a reputational and an 
operational standpoint. Consumers, non-governmental organizations and other external organizations expect companies to do their part to mitigate climate change. Reducing our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions also enables Colgate to avoid costs. Since 2002, our energy reduction program has helped us avoid over $500 million in energy costs. Managing the risks associated with climatic events such as storms and droughts is also important to ensure the continuity of our own operations and that of our supply chain. See page 91 for more information on Climate Resilience.
Key elements of our Climate Strategy include: 
Science-Based Goals 
We will set science-based climate goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Energy Management and Investment 
We will continue to improve our global Energy Management System and invest in planet-related improvements via our manufacturing capital program. 
Low-Carbon Energy 
We will promote use of renewable energy and support development of low-carbon energy supply. 
Low-Carbon Products and Supply Chains 
We will quantify greenhouse gas emissions throughout our value chain and focus on reducing the most significant emissions. Colgate will ensure responsible sourcing of the forest commodities associated with deforestation. 
Climate Resilience 
We will integrate climate resiliency into our risk management processes. 
Collaboration and Disclosure 
We will collaborate with stakeholders to demonstrate business leadership on climate. We are also committed to transparency and will publicly disclose our climate strategies and goals and report on our progress. 
To help drive our climate strategy, our 2020 Sustainability Strategy includes a 
commitment to “Reducing Our Impact on Climate and the Environment.” Our commitment is supported by four goals:
n Responsibly source forest commodities to reach zero net deforestation 
n Promote use of renewable energy and reduce absolute greenhouse gas   
 emissions from manufacturing by 25 per cent compared to 2002 
n Reduce our manufacturing energy intensity by one-third compared to 2002 
n Partner with key suppliers, customers and consumers to reduce energy,   
 greenhouse gas emissions and waste“The science is clear 
and the time to ramp 
up action on climate is now—doing so is the only way to protect sustainable economic growth. Consumers get the picture and they increasingly expect companies to lead. We applaud companies —such as Colgate—for setting greenhouse gas targets based on science, moving from doing “better” to doing enough to actually solve the problem. We also encourage forward-thinking companies to approach issues such as water and land use in a similar manner, working collectively to ensure robust economies, vibrant communities and a healthy planet.” 
~ JP Leous, Director- 
Corporate Relations,  
World Resources Institute
Planetpage 82
Science-Based Goals
Our climate strategy is anchored in setting and achieving science-based goals to 
reduce greenhouse gases. Targets adopted by companies to reduce greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions are considered science ‑based if they are in line with the level 
of decarbonization required to keep global temperature increase below two degrees Celsius compared to preindustrial temperatures, as described in the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC AR5).
 
 Our progress in reducing our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions is detailed 
below. We are pleased to report that we have met our 2020 goal, reducing absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent. Colgate’s science-based 
climate goal for Scopes 
1, 2 and 3 were approved 
by the Science Based 
Targets initiative. 
500620740
540580700
6601000 MT of CO2 708
631645655
627664695 698706711 710
640
626
604
531
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002Manufacturing Absolute Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and 2)  (1)Colgate-Palmolive Company commits to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions from manufacturing by 25 percent from 2002 to 2020, with a longer term goal of a 50 percent reduction by 2050. Colgate also commits, as a way to reduce our most significant Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, to promote water conservation awareness to 100 percent of our global consumers and reduce emissions associated with consumer behavior by up to 5 percent from 2016 to 2022, and increase the recycled content of our packaging to 50 percent by 2020.Our Science -Based Climate Goal
 As part of our strategy to track and reduce gr eenhouse gas emissions, Colgate also tracks direct and indirect 
CO2 emissions as well as direct nitrous oxide, sulfur hexafluoride, HFC and PFC emissions. We additionally 
estimate NOX, or nitric oxide, emissions from Colgate’s North American and European car fleets and from the trucks 
that deliver Hill’s Pet Nutrition products to retail customers in vehicles that are controlled by Colgate. We track VOC data as needed to comply with local regulations.
(1) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor.Planetpage 83
Energy Management and Investment
Colgate has a long-standing energy reduction program that has brought us reductions 
in greenhouse gas emissions and energy use intensity as well as financial savings. Our energy management system is modeled after U.S. EPA’s ENERGY STAR program and is implemented globally. In 2016, Colgate was named a U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the sixth year in a row with recognition for Sustained Excellence. 
 Key elements of Colgate’s ener gy management program include:
n “Top 10” Energy Actions
 For the past several years, as a way to help our global sites prioritize on the most 
effective energy reduction activities, we have utilized our Top 10 Energy Actions program. Implemented over two-year increments, this program tracks progress against our 10 best global energy reduction opportunities. 
n Energy Treasure Hunt Program
 We engage people across Colgate’s operations through participation in the Energy 
Treasure Hunt program. Over a three ‑day period, 30 to 50 participants visit all 
areas of a facility, searching for energy waste and brainstorming opportunities to drive continuous improvement.
  In 2016, four Energy T reasure Hunts were completed in Poland, the Czech 
Republic, Mexico and Brazil. The 2016 Treasure Hunts identified over 160 energy savings ideas with the potential to reduce Colgate’s energy consumption by over 69,000 MWh and CO
2 emissions by more than 12,900 metric tons. Since its 
inception, this program has identified over 1,500 energy savings projects with the potential to reduce Colgate’s energy consumption by nearly 285,000 MWh and CO
2 emissions by over 100,000 metric tons.Colgate named  
a U.S. EPA ENERGY 
STAR Partner of the Year 
for the 6th year in a row
We estimate that over 1,700 Colgate employees have been touched by the Energy Treasure Hunt program, raising energy 
reduction awareness at 21 facilities, representing nearly 78 percent of our global energy spend.Energy Treasure Hunt Program Planetpage 84
In 2016, we exceeded our 5% for the Planet target with over 7 percent of the budget 
invested in projects yielding an estimated $13.7 million in annual savings. Ninety of these projects focused on energy and are estimated to save over 48,500 MWh of energy, which will reduce our carbon footprint by over 19 million kilograms.
n ENERGY STAR ChallengeSince 2011, Colgate has utilized the EPA’s ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry as our internal energy award program for our global manufacturing sites. The Challenge for Industry rewards sites that achieve a minimum of 10 percent 
reduction in energy intensity during a five ‑year period. To date, 81 percent of our 
manufacturing facilities have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry recognition.
n Global Energy Reduction TeamSince 2003, Colgate’s Global Energy Reduction Team has led the technical implementation of Colgate’s energy strategy in our manufacturing sites by setting annual objectives and developing tools and programs to help our sites reach their energy reduction targets. This cross-functional global team is comprised of individuals with both expertise and passion for reducing Colgate’s energy use and GHG emissions.n “5% for the Planet”
 Since 2011, Colgate has implemented a capital budgeting expectation aimed at driving investment in 
environmental sustainability projects across our global manufacturing sites. Colgate has invested nearly  
$175 million in over 1,000 planet projects which have delivered an estimated savings of nearly $50 million.
  Our 5% for the Planet program helps ensur e that sites identify, fund and implement projects which drive 
both environmental improvement and cost savings. The program sets an annual goal to invest 5 percent of our manufacturing capital expenditure budget on energy reduction, water conservation and reduction of waste to landfill. Upgrades for environmental compliance and product design are funded separately. A minimum of  2 percent of the manufacturing capital budget is targeted specifically toward energy reduction projects.
 
   5% for the Planet (U.S. $ millions)
Year Number of Planet Projects  Planet Investment   Planet Annual Savings   % Spend
2016  155 $ 37.0 $ 13.7 7.2%
2015  182 $ 28.5 $ 4.9 7.4%
2014  157 $ 24.7 $ 7.6 4.6%
2013  175 $ 26.1 $ 5.5 7.1%
2012  167 $ 31.3 $ 9.5 6.2%
2011  184 $ 27.1 $ 7.1 5.6%
Total to date  1,02 0 $ 174.8  $ 48.3
81% of our 
manufacturing facilities 
worldwide have achieved 
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR 
Challenge for Industry 
recognition, including 
87% of Oral Care plants, 
100% of Personal Care 
plants, 77% of  
Home Care plants  
and 50% of  
Pet Nutrition plants.
Planetpage 85
2016 Energy Reduction Projects Highlights 
n Cali, Colombia
 Installation of an integrated variable speed water-cooled chiller reduced the energy needed by the site’s 
central chilled water system by over 1,600 MWh annually and saved over $160,000 per year.
n Mission Hills, Mexico
 Installation of a variable speed air compressor and elimination of compressed air hoses reduced energy consumption by over 800 MWh annually and saved over $54,000 per year.
n Swidnica, Poland
 Replacement of the energy intensive metal halide lights with LED lamps, coupled with installation of additional automatic control valves on the HVAC system, reduced energy 1,761 MWh annually and saved over $146,000 per year.
n Baddi, India
 Installation of active filters on the power control center improved the quality of the electric power supply, reducing energy consumption by over 600 MWh annually and saved nearly $17,000 per year.
n Cambridge, OH, U.S.
 Installation of heat exchanger and piping allowed use of lower temperature cooling tower water to 
 precool plant chilled water. This helped the facility reduce its electricity consumption by over 
 600 MWh annually and saved $42,000 per year. In 2016, the team’s activities involved r evision of our annual energy assessment process and tools; development 
of a guidance document for reducing energy costs through production planning; development of an Energy/Water 
Treasure Hunt program including a website toolkit;  and development of the next version of our Top 10 Energy Actions program. The Global Energy Reduction T eam has focused on supporting our plants with many tools, activities and 
initiatives including:
n Developing internal training courses on energy reduction
n Creating an Energy Practices to Share program to communicate best practices
n Forming an extended site energy coordinator network
n Developing communication tools for an energy awareness campaignn Developing an energy Office Plug ‑Load guidance 
document
n Creating a Motor Evaluation Tool and Energy Assessment Tools
n Developing technical guidebooks on various topics, such as lighting, submetering, compressed air and HVAC
n Launching the Colgate Energy Treasure Hunt program Planetpage 86
Low-Carbon Energy
As part of our strategy to achieve a 25 percent absolute reduction in greenhouse 
gases by 2020, we will promote use of renewable energy and support development of a low-carbon energy supply. Colgate has been a U.S. EPA Green Power Partner since 2014, supporting the voluntary use of green power to reduce the environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity use.
 In 2016, Colgate purchased Gr een‑e certified wind power r enewable energy 
certificates generated from wind power farms located in Kansas. This green power purchase was recognized by the U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership Leadership Club, achieving a rank of No. 39 in the United States. The purchase of green power is allocated back to our facilities in proportion to their carbon emissions as a way to help assign a cost-of-carbon to its source.Colgate is a member of 
the U.S. EPA’s Green 
Power Partnership 
and was named to the 
National Top 100 list 
in 2016, representing 
the largest green 
power users within 
the Partnership.
Progress Against Our Energy Intensity Goal
Colgate’s 2020 goal is to reduce the energy intensity of manufacturing our products by 33 percent compared  to 2002. Our global energy programs have already resulted in the reduction of energy per ton of products by  30.6 percent.
(1) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor. 0.300.450.60Energy Use IntensityEnergy Use Intensity (MWh / ton of product) 
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 20020.360.370.380.390.40 0.400.420.410.420.430.440.460.490.52 0.52Manufacturing Energy Intensity (Scope 1 and 2)  (1)
Improving RefrigerantsAlthough Colgate utilizes only a small quantity of refrig-erants in our air conditioning and chilled water systems, we continue to take steps to minimize refrigerant losses and transition to lower global warming potential refrig-erants over time. In 2016, the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) updated its resolution on refrigerants, which calls on Food and Beverage supply chains to phase out hydrofluorocarbons. Although Colgate is not in the Food and Beverage sector, we have proactively aligned our global refrigerant standard to meet the intent of the CGF’s resolution as a way to support these efforts. In addition, we developed an associated e-learning training tool to assist our global facilities in transitioning toward less carbon-intensive refrigerants.Planetpage 87
Sourcing of Materials and Capital Goods
Colgate Operations
Distribution of ProductsConsumer Use and Disposal of Products10%
85%2%
3%Low-Carbon Products and Supply Chain
Each year Colgate continues to work to more fully understand the carbon impacts and opportunities across our 
chain. We have expanded our knowledge into areas beyond our own direct energy (Scope 1 emissions) and indirect electricity (Scope 2 emissions), to include areas such as raw material procurement, transportation and logistics, business travel, waste, employee commuting, consumer use of products and product end-of-life.
Low-Carbon Products
The predominance of our GHG emissions is associated with the consumer use of our products.
 Looking more deeply , our category GHG footprint revealed that the impact of 
brushing, showering, washing hands and washing dishes differs greatly.*Data cited excludes Hill’s Pet Nutrition. Colgate Operations includes emissions related to factory energy and waste, employee business travel and commuting 
and leased assets. Colgate’s Carbon Footprint* 
Colgate Global Carbon Footprint Oral Care, Personal Care, Home CareTo reduce GHG 
emissions associated 
with our products 
we are focused on: 
n	
Raising consumer 
awareness of water 
conservation 
n	
Designing products 
that allow consumers 
to use less water or 
temperate water 
n	
Designing packages 
that can be recycled Oral Care 5% 
Personal Care  84%
Home Care 11%
Oral Care 32% 
Personal Care  61%
Home Care 7%Carbon
WaterAs illustrated by this graphic, heated 
water has the greatest GHG impact.Planetpage 88
 We are reducing GHG via our commitment to 
promote water conservation awareness to all our global 
consumers. This commitment has the potential not only to reduce water consumption but to reduce GHG emissions in the largest portion of our footprint. By encouraging consumers to save water, we are reducing the energy needed to purify, pump and heat water needed when using our products. Colgate is working to increase consumer awar eness 
of water conservation through on-pack messaging, digital messaging and consumer messaging in retail environments. We are engaging consumers whether they are brushing their teeth, showering, washing hands or washing the dishes. See page 93 for additional details regarding our commitment to increase water conservation awareness.
Suavitel dries clothes 
30% faster, reducing 
dryer time Colgate is also developing products that enable consumers to r educe their 
energy consumption during use. Our fast ‑dry fabric softener offering brings a unique 
technology that wicks away water from fabric to help clothes dry faster, saving consumers time and energy. Colgate’s no-rinse fabric softener technology enables consumers to save water and energy associated with the manual rinse cycle.
 We also recognize that the disposal of empty packaging is a significant contributor 
to our carbon footprint. Our 2020 goals to increase recycled content of our packaging to 50 percent and to provide our consumers with recyclable packages will help reduce our carbon footprint. In 2016, 41 percent of the materials in our packaging were recycled content and 78 percent of our packaging was considered recyclable. See page 71 for 
additional information on our progress against our packaging sustainability goals.Brush for 2 minutes twice a day, but turn off the faucetThe American Dental Association recommends brushing your teeth for two minutes twice a day. Turning off the faucet while brushing your teeth can save up to 3,000 gallons of water per year—that’s the equivalent of 50,000 glasses of water!
Reduce showers by 2 minutes
Reducing your shower by 2 minutes saves both water and energy. In one year, you can save up 
to 1,800 gallons of water and enough energy to power a 13 ‑watt compact fluorescent light bulb 
for approximately 2 years.
Turn off the faucet while washing the dishes
Turning off the faucet when washing the dishes by hand for two minutes saves both water and energy. In one year, you can save up to 1,600 gallons of water and enough energy to charge a cell phone for almost 3 years.
Turn off the faucet when washing hands
Turning off the faucet for 10 seconds while washing hands can save both water and energy. In one year, you can save up to 400 gallons of water and enough energy to power a 13-watt fluorescent light bulb for over 2 months. 
We use water every day when we brush our teeth, bathe or shower, wash our hands and wash dishes. 
By making small changes, we can have a big impact!
Together let’s make every drop of water count.Planetpage 89
Low-Carbon Supply Chain
We are also focused on GHG emissions in our supply chain. To reduce these emissions we are focused on:
n Supplier Engagement
n Carbon-Intensive Materials
n No Deforestation
n Sustainable and Efficient Logistics
Supplier Engagement We request that our key Tier I suppliers and suppliers of carbon-intensive materials participate in the CDP Supply Chain Program Climate Disclosure to help us understand and address climate impacts and associated risks and opportunities in our upstream supply chain. In 2016, more than 44 percent of our Tier I suppliers responded to the survey, including our largest raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers. We achieved a 78 percent supplier response rate, significantly higher than the average rate for all member companies.
Carbon-Intensive Materials
We have identified the oral care, personal care and home care raw and pack materials that have the highest carbon footprint. This information has been shared with our Research & Development and Procurement teams to enable them to identify and prioritize opportunities through material and supplier choices without impacting consumer experience, quality or cost.
No Deforestation
We also recognize that deforestation and forest degradation significantly contribute to the release of greenhouse gases. Our No Deforestation Policy commits to responsibly and sustainably sourced forest commodity materials by 2020. Our policy addresses practices relating to palm oil, pulp and paper, beef tallow and soy, including an expectation that our suppliers do not use burning for clearance or develop high conservation value and high conservation stock forests. See page 107 for more details on Colgate’s progress on policy implementation.Sustainable and Efficient Logistics Colgate’s Customer Service and Logistics teams continue to implement sustainable and efficient logistics projects around the globe that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We are reducing costs, better serving our customers and reducing our carbon footprint all at the same time. 
In the U.S., Colgate and Hill’s Pet Nutrition are 
U.S. EPA SmartWay Transport Partners.
 
Planetpage 90
2016 Sustainable and Efficient Logistics Highlights
n More AeroDynamic and Efficient Vehicles: Our 
logistics providers are upgrading their fleet to include more aerodynamic and efficient vehicles. In Europe, a key partner is using a new aerodynamic vehicle called a “teardrop” trailer. The trailer features a curved roof which reduces air resistance and cuts fuel consumption by up to 10 percent.
n Vehicles Powered by Natural Gas: In selected geographies, we are partnering with logistics providers who are using vehicles powered with natural gas, which is a more efficient and cleaner  fuel source.
n Co-Loading Trailers: Colgate is working to minimize 
the number of trucks on the road by co-loading trailers with other companies. By implementing this ride sharing program for freight we are able to ensure full loads.n Optimized Load Building: We are rolling out new technology globally to improve shipment load building and container utilization. This new tool helps our team fully optimize the use of all space in each truck and reduce emissions.
n Intermodal Shipping: We are utilizing intermodal shipping globally to drive cost reduction in CO
2 
emissions and diesel consumption.
n Demand Sensing and Improved Planning: We are implementing new systems that enable Colgate to reduce the number of transfer shipments between distribution centers, taking vehicles off the road.
n Driver Incentives: Our Hill’s Pet Nutrition business has had a bonus incentive program for our fleet truck drivers since 2007. Through this program, we train drivers and reward efficient and sustainable logistics. Since inception we have avoided consumption of over 1.6 million gallons of fuel and emissions of over 
 4.7 million kilograms of greenhouse gases.
Colgate has 
110 
telepresence 
systems in 
40 countries 
n	
In 2016, we
conducted over
15,600  
telepresence  
meetings that reduced 
emissions associated 
with business travel Other Scope 3 Emissions
Although business travel makes up a small percentage of Colgate’s total carbon footprint, the increased use of our global telepresence network provides an opportunity to engage employees in sustainability. Approximately 95 percent of Colgate’s business travel emissions are attributable to air transport, and 50 percent of Colgate’s air transport emissions are attributable to long haul international flights so increased use of telepresence can mean fewer flights and reduced GHG emissions. Colgate has now installed 110 telepresence systems in 40 countries around the world, enabling business reviews and meetings to be conducted virtually. In 2016, the number of telepresence meetings exceeded 15,600 and accounted for over 42,000 hours of meetings. We also continue to work with our global travel provider to track our greenhouse gas emissions associated with our airline flights, train travel, rental cars and hotel stays and report this data via our CDP Climate survey response.
 Qualifying individuals in the U.S. may work up to two days a week from home or 
another remote location on a regular basis. Employees participating in this program have an improved work-life balance and a reduced greenhouse gas footprint by eliminating emissions associated with their commute to and from work.
 Planetpage 91
Further details of our risk 
management strategies 
related to climate change, 
water availability and 
forest commodity risk 
can be found in our 
response to CDP’s annual 
climate change, water 
and forest surveys.
 
Quantifying  
Scope 3 emissions  
and goalsU.S. EPA’s Green 
Power Partnership 
National Top 100 List
Colgate was  
named to the CDP 
Climate A ListColgate was 
recognized as a 
U.S. EPA ENERGY 
STAR Partner of 
the Year for the 
sixth year in early 
2016Global LEED 
commitment for 
new construction 
of all owned 
facilities
Climate Resilience
Colgate has a long-standing operations risk management process that includes man-
aging the impacts of episodic climatic events such as storms, floods, dr oughts and 
temperature extremes to our facilities and supply chain. As part of this process, we assess potential climate vulnerabilities and risks to ensure our business is able to re-spond and recover from climatic events. This work allows us to integrate longer-term climate resiliency into our business decisions related to our facilities, material supply and logistics in order to help minimize disruptions. As part of this process we assess and develop risk mitigation plans for natural disasters, utilities, single source materials and supply continuity, all of which may be impacted by climate and other factors.
 As part of our loss-prevention pr ogram, our strategic manufacturing sites are 
mandated to be highly protected against risks. These risks include disasters and climatic and seismic events such as earthquake, volcano eruption, tsunami, tropical 
cyclone, extra ‑tropical storm, hail, tornado, lightning, wildfire, river flood, flash flood 
and storm surge. Property loss control third-party assessments are conducted annually for all strategic sites. Category contingency product sourcing plans have been developed and are updated routinely.
 In 2016, we continued our efforts to evaluate climate and water risks and r esiliency 
associated with key raw and packaging materials via the CDP Supply Chain Program. Colgate has participated in the program since its inception in 2008, increasing the scope of suppliers each year. Colgate also hosted a student project in the MIT Sloan School of Management’s Action Learning Sustainability Lab to evaluate the long-term climatic impacts to North America mint and India mint and menthol supplies. 
Collaboration and Disclosure
Colgate is committed to transparency and has reported publicly on our carbon and energy reduction performance since 2004. Through these disclosures we report on financial, regulatory, physical and reputational risks as well as savings associated with 
eco‑efficiency.
 In 2016, we continued to collaborate with a variety of stakeholders and engaged 
with leading organizations to inform our climate strategy and drive continuous improvement on a broader basis.
Planetpage 92
Making Every Drop of Water Count
One of life’s most basic needs, water is also essential to business. It is an ingredient in many Colgate products 
and required in almost every phase of the product life cycle. Clean water is also vital to the communities we serve yet in many regions of the world, it is becoming an increasingly scarce resource. We take our responsibility as conscientious stewards of water seriously and are committed to making every drop of water count. Water Stewardship is one of our Key Sustainability Issues identified on page 10.
Colgate’s Water Stewardship Strategy
Water and 
Sanitation 
AccessCollaboration
and
DisclosureDirect
OperationsSupply Chain
ManagementConsumer 
UseEcosystem
Protection
Key elements of our Water Stewardship Commitment include:
n Direct Operations: We will continue to invest in water conservation and assess water risks associated with our global operations. We will replenish water in highly stressed regions and manage our wastewater appropriately.
n Supply Chain Management: We will increase supplier participation in our water stewardship program with a goal to identify opportunities and mitigate water risks.
n Consumer Use: We will strive to develop innovative products that enable consumers to use less water while meeting or exceeding their expectations. Colgate will also promote water conservation awareness to our global consumers. n Water and Sanitation Access: We respect the human right to water, sanitation and hygiene. We will partner with local and global organizations to bring clean water to underserved areas around the world. We will also provide health and hygiene education in our communities.
n Ecosystem Protection: We will strive to protect water-related ecosystems such as forests, wetlands, aquifers and rivers.
n Collaboration and Disclosure: We will partner with stakeholders and our communities to help drive water stewardship programs. We are committed to transparency and will publicly disclose our water stewardship strategies and goals and report on our progress.Planetpage 93
To help drive our Water Stewardship Strategy, our 2020 Sustainability Strategy 
includes a commitment to Making Every Drop of Water Count. Our commitment is supported by five goals:
n Reduce our manufacturing water intensity by half compared to 2002
n Replenish water withdrawn in highly stressed regions
n Increase supplier participation in our water stewardship program
n Partner with local and global organizations to bring clean water to underserved areas of the world
n Promote water conservation awareness to all our global consumers 
Making  
Every Drop 
of Water  
Count
Colgate’s Water Use Footprint* Our Water Footprint
Colgate’s water use footprint consists of the water used by our suppliers to produce the raw and packaging materials we purchase, the water used by our facilities to manufacture our products and the water associated with the consumer use of our products.
 Although we continue to focus on reducing the water used in our own operations, incr easingly we are making 
efforts to impact water use along each step of our value chain. The r esults of our ongoing water footprint exercises 
have helped quantify the opportunities to have a positive water impact beyond our own operations.
*Excluding Hill’s Pet Nutrition.Raw and Packaging Material Supply
Product ManufactureConsumer Use 9%
90%2%
<1%
Colgate Water Use Footprint Oral Care, Personal Care, Home CareOral Care 5% 
Personal Care  84%
Home Care 11%
Oral Care 32% 
Personal Care  61%
Home Care 7%Carbon
WaterOral and personal care products 
have the largest water footprint.Planetpage 94
cubic meters / ton of product
1.01.52.0
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 20021.04 1.04 1.05 1.07 1.09 1.091.131.181.251.311.351.541.661.812.00Direct Operations
Colgate has had manufacturing water conservation goals since 2002. Since 2002, we have reduced the water 
consumed per unit of production in the manufacture of our products by over 48 percent.(1) Our new 2020 goal will 
take us even further. We will reduce our manufacturing water intensity by half compared to 2002 and find ways to replenish water withdrawn in highly stressed regions.
We have avoided enough 
water consumption in 
manufacturing to fill 
approximately 20,000 
Olympic-sized swimming 
pools since 2002.(2)
2002 to 2016 Manufacturing Water Usage Intensity  (1)(2)
(1) Excluding water in products.
(2) Subject to final certification by 
third-party auditor.Key elements of our program include:
n 5% for the Planet 
 Colgate invests in water conservation strategies at our global facilities via our 
manufacturing capital program 5% for the Planet and by implementing our Water Stewardship Standard. A minimum of one percent of the manufacturing capital budget is targeted specifically toward water conservation projects.
n True Cost of Water 
 Colgate’s T rue Cost of Water Toolkit, developed with Rutgers University Business 
School and its Supply Chain Management Program, is a manufacturing-based tool designed to help sites quantify some of the hidden costs of water such as pre-treatment, pumping and wastewater treatment, thereby increasing both economic and environmental opportunities for reduction. We continue to explore new ways to share the approach and learnings from our True Cost of Water Toolkit with industry peers, government agencies and NGOs.
n Water Stewardship Standard
 Colgate’s global W ater Stewardship Standard is intended to help ensure that 
all of our manufacturing facilities and technology centers develop responsible and appropriate programs to ensure that water-related risks are understood and managed, and that water conservation opportunities are continuously evaluated and implemented in support of Colgate’s environmental and sustainability goals. Water Stewardship Standard expectations vary by level of geographic water stress.Planetpage 95
n “Top 10” Water Actions  
 We drive water stewardship action at our sites through a program called the  
Top 10 Water Actions. These actions are selected based on their potential local 
and global impact and are centered on the key initiatives listed below:
 1) Water Data Validation
 2) Water Stewardship Plan
 3) Water Conservation Assessment
 4) Water Balance
 5) Plant Water Systems6) Sanitary and Domestic Water Use
7) Cooling Towers
8) Cleaning & Sanitization
9) Landscaping & Irrigation
10) Water Reuse/Recycle
By year-end 2016 our global sites achieved an average completion rate of 94 percent of these actions, with the balance to be finalized in early 2017.
n Water Replenishment 
 In regions with high water stress, we continue to assess water risks and implement 
appropriate resiliency measures as a way to anticipate and mitigate impacts. In 2015, Colgate hosted a student project in the MIT Sloan School of Management’s Action Learning Sustainability Lab to help develop a framework for developing replenishment criteria, defining geographical boundaries and identifying both environmental and community-related options to meet our commitment to replenish water in highly stressed regions.
  In 2016, we leveraged this project’ s output by piloting the overall replenishment 
approach for our manufacturing sites located in India. Through this work, we 
identified future opportunities to maximize on ‑site water reduction, increasing 
rainwater harvesting and continued community water projects.
At Colgate “replenishment” means all activities which increase availability of safe sustainable water for people and communities and help reduce water 
stress on local resources by:  
	n Beneficially returning water to the  
  environment and
	n Increasing community access to safe   
  sustainable water
Water withdrawn includes all quantities of water used by local site operations obtained from groundwater, municipal or other local sources (excluding rainwater). Water replenished includes all water returned to the environment via harvested rainwater injection and treated wastewater reused for irrigation (which also results in avoidance of water withdrawals) as well as community access projects related to infrastructure, watershed protection, provision of clean water and sanitation and water conservation.
 To maximize the impacts of our replenishment 
strategy, we will seek to work at the watershed and state and local levels for implementation, based on local operations and opportunities.Water ReplenishmentPlanetpage 96
Supply Chain Management
We continue to address supply chain water risks in 
several ways. We are increasing supplier engagement in our water stewardship program through participation in programs such as the CDP Supply Chain Program. Also, we are helping our product developers and procurement teams understand and identify our most water-intensive raw and packaging materials. 
 We request several of our Tier I suppliers and 
suppliers of water-intensive materials to participate in the CDP Supply Chain Program Water Disclosure in order to help us understand and address water impacts and associated risks and opportunities in our upstream supply chain. In 2016, more than 31 percent of our Tier I suppliers responded to the survey, including our largest raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers. We achieved a 51 percent supplier response rate, significantly higher than the average rate for all member companies.
 As a way to help reduce the water associated with 
the production of raw materials, we are working to identify the most water-intensive materials in each of our product categories. With this information, we are able to then engage our suppliers to better understand the opportunities to reduce the water footprint of our products through feedstock choices and conversion efficiency, particularly in markets under high water stress.
 In 2016, Colgate worked with the MIT Sloan School 
of Management’s Action Learning Sustainability Lab on a project related to assessing and mitigating climate change risks to Colgate’s North America mint supply chain. This project highlighted the climate/water nexus.
 Also in 2016, Colgate invited the World Resour ces 
Institute (WRI) to conduct a workshop for our Global Procurement leadership team on utilizing WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool for assessing supplier water risks. This interactive workshop allowed Colgate’s procurement leaders to engage in firsthand discussions and ideation on how to utilize Aqueduct as an added risk management tool for agriculturally-sourced materials.
According to the World Resources Institute, many countries around the world face “extremely high” levels of water stress, 
leaving communities and businesses vulnerable to water scarcity.Planetpage 97
Consumer Use
Our Products
Colgate understands that the water required to use our products represents the largest portion of our overall water footprint. To that end, water scarcity is an opportunity for innovation, and we are working to develop products that allow consumers to use less water. Colgate’s portfolio includes a number of products that allow consumers to use less water.
n Ajax Easy Rinse Spray helps 
consumers save water by making it easier to rinse the product after cleaning.n Glo Ultra Pekat is a hand dish 
soap that provides more foam in 
every drop; its quick -rinse formula 
allows consumers to use less and wash more.
Water Conservation Awareness Consumers also have an important role to play in conserving water as they use our products. Through actions such as turning off the faucet while brushing their teeth and washing their hands, much water can be conserved. In order to help consumers in this effort, Colgate has a goal to promote water conservation awareness to all our global consumers.
n In 2016, Colgate aired our awar d-winning Save Water 
video message during football’s Big Game. Consumers were also invited to make a personal pledge to save water at EveryDropCounts.Colgate.com. This campaign alone has reached over 2.7 billion people through earned and social media and views of the television and online video. 
n Softsoap Foaming 
Handsoap rinses away more quickly than traditional handsoap.n Suavitel No-Rinse Fabric 
Softener eliminates the need for a rinse cycle. Planetpage 98
World Water Day 2016
With one in ten people worldwide lacking access to 
clean water, raising awareness of the importance of conservation is more important than ever. To help shed light on global water shortages, Colgate aired our award-winning Save Water communication on World Water Day in over 60 countries as part of the company’s global efforts to expand its #EveryDropCounts campaign. 
 Originally developed in 2014 to support Colgate’s 
global sustainability commitment to “Making Every Drop of Water Count,” the video communication illustrates how a seemingly small act, like turning off the faucet while brushing your teeth, can make a big difference. Since then, this message has been shared in countries around the world, including via an ad that aired during football’s Big Game in the U.S. in 2016 and has continued to gain consumer recognition in social media where it has been viewed millions of times.
 The Save Water message alr eady appears on the 
Company’s toothpaste and toothbrush packaging. We plan to expand the campaign by adding the Save Water message to packaging for soaps and cleaning products in 2017.
 In 2016, Colgate engaged consumers online via 
social media as well as in-store, partnering with key retailers around the world to educate shoppers about World Water Day and Colgate’s Save Water communications initiative.
 Thanks to the ongoing efforts of Colgate people 
around the world, we are helping drive greater 
awareness of water issues  —on World W ater Day 
and every day—among consumers, customers and fellow Colgate people. In 2016, all Colgate divisions engaged Colgate people around the world regardless of office size or location on World Water Day, inviting them to take a Save Water pledge and share the word about water conservation. Some locations also held events with guest speakers or volunteered in the local community.
n In Latin America, Save Water messaging expanded 
to additional global brands that require water for use, and the Save Water commercial was aired on television networks across Mexico, Central America and Colgate’s Andina, Southern Cone and Caribbean regions. Colgate also partnered with retailers to reach consumers in stores and online and engaged with digital messaging on Facebook. Additionally, Colgate partnered with Disney’s The Jungle Book movie to promote the message that Every Drop Counts through advertising online and on television, and an engaging website in Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Panama and Peru. Highlights
Planetpage 99
n In Europe, Colgate is rolling out an on-pack Save 
Water reminder to consumers to help deepen 
their understanding of water sustainability issues. To celebrate World Water Day, employees were invited to take a pledge to save water and share their commitment via social media. For every pledge made, a donation was made to support our PlayPump program in South Africa. Through our sponsorship of PlayPumps, much needed water is brought to communities with little or no access to fresh water. In 2016, we donated a PlayPump to Badihile Primary School in Northern Cape, South Africa, as part of its Global Save Water program.
n In 2016, the Save Water campaign was 
activated in China. Colgate has formed a regional partnership with AS Watson to amplify the campaign impact and to engage shoppers with powerful water-conservation communications in-store.
n Colgate U.S. continues to partner with The Nature Conservancy , the 
world’s largest freshwater conservation organization, to communicate how consumers can help protect water as a vital resource and the importance of knowing the source of your water. In addition, we are partnering with key strategic customers to reach consumers in the U.S. and remind them to turn off the faucet while brushing their teeth.n In Colgate’s Africa/Eurasia Division, including T urkey, Russia, Ukraine, Israel and South Africa, 
Colgate aired the Save Water video on television and online and partnered with Migros and Walmart stores to reach consumers. In Ghana, Colgate distributed calendars with water-saving tips, and in Kenya, Colgate promoted water conservation awareness in local schools.Planetpage 100
Water and Sanitation Access
Colgate respects the human right to water, sanitation and hygiene. One of Colgate’s 
2020 Sustainability Strategy goals is to work with local and global organizations to help promote access to clean water. We also provide health and hygiene education in communities around the world.
 In 2017, Colgate will continue to partner with Water For People to str engthen 
and support the municipal water and sanitation offices that were established in each district since we began our partnership in 2013. Our partnership exists to promote the development of high quality drinking water and sanitation services, accessible to all, and sustained by strong communities, businesses, and governments.
 Colgate continues to support Water For People’ s goal of 100 percent drinking 
water coverage in 30 districts across nine countries by 2018. Colgate’s contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program helped them to reach nearly 338,000 people since 2013 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education.
 We also recognize that communities faced with inadequate access to safe water 
often do not have adequate sanitation services and that handwashing is not widely practiced. As mentioned on page 46, Colgate works with public health officials, academia, local schools and clinics to educate millions of children and their families about the health and hygiene benefits of handwashing.
 Further, as a matter of long-standing practice, Colgate provides safe water, 
sanitation and hygiene to all people in our workplaces.
Colgate’s contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program 
helped them to reach nearly 338,000 people since 2013 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education.
Colgate People  
Giving Back
In Guatemala, groups 
of Colgate people 
have visited several of 
the communities that 
received clean water 
and volunteered to teach 
children the importance 
of oral health and 
handwashing with our 
Bright Smiles, Bright 
Futures program.
Water For PeoplePlanetpage 101
Colgate is supporting The Nature Conservancy in its mission to protect and restore the health of rivers, lakes, wetlands and 
forests as well as to educate consumers about the importance of clean, accessible water for people and nature.Ecosystem Protection
Colgate works to protect water-related ecosystems 
such as forests, wetlands, aquifers and rivers, which lie at the heart of the global water cycle. All freshwater ultimately depends on the continued healthy functioning of these ecosystems. Colgate will continue to work to protect water-related ecosystems through our commitments to no deforestation, water replenishment, aquifer protection, wastewater treatment and community partnerships. In the U.S., Colgate is continuing to support The Nature Conservancy in its mission to protect and restore the health of rivers, lakes, wetlands and forests as well as to educate consumers about the importance of clean, accessible water for people and nature. This includes helping to protect bodies of water like the Delaware River Basin (clean water source to nearly 20 million Americans) by combating nutrient runoff and sedimentation through riparian restoration, and the Sierra Nevada (the source of 65 percent of California’s water supply) where the Conservancy is working to conserve 50,000 acres of critical land to act as a natural reservoir for clear mountain streams.
Colgate also sponsors teachers to attend the Key Issues Institute: Bringing Environmental Issues to the Classroom professional development program in Colorado, U.S., a program of the Keystone Science School. Teachers come from areas where Colgate has operations. The program gives teachers the skills to use innovative and engaging ideas and methods to investigate current environmental issues including lab testing and outdoor water testing with their students. In 2016, Colgate sponsored four teachers from South Carolina and Mexico who left with curriculum materials, lab equipment and a new professional network of support from fellow teachers and Key Issues staff.
© The Nature Conservancy (Mark Godfrey)Planetpage 102
Colgate is a signatory to 
the CEO Water Mandate.Wastewater Management
Wastewater discharges from Colgate’s operations are generally treated on site or by the local municipality prior to discharge to a water body. We continue to work to reduce pollutant loading in our wastewater discharges prior to treatment. In 2016, Colgate upgraded and/or installed industrial wastewater treatment plants in Guatemala, Poland, Brazil, Colombia, Tennessee and South Carolina. 
 In selected locations where water str ess is high, Colgate treats wastewater to 
tertiary levels, allowing it to be reused for cooling, toilet flushing, gardening and other purposes. For example, in 2016 our India Global Technology Center commissioned and built a wastewater treatment plant. This plant, not only conforms to the norms issued by the Pollution Control Board, but also surpasses the established standards. The treated wastewater from this plant is used for gardening and toilet flushing purposes. The entire volume of treated water is reused, making our India Global Technology Center a “zero discharge” site.
Collaboration and Disclosure
As a way to inform our water stewardship efforts, Colgate engages with leading water experts. This collaboration helps build expertise, align efforts and ensur e our water 
programs meet stakeholder expectations. We are also committed to transparency and have reported publicly on our water stewardship and reduction performance for many years. 
Planetpage 103
Working Towards Zero Landfill Waste
Colgate sites have been reducing, reusing and recycling waste for many years. 
Colgate’s Trash to Treasure program encourages Colgate sites to find opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle waste. We utilize automated Landfill Waste Scorecards for all of our sites to help increase the visibility and understanding of our waste reduction opportunities on a real-time basis.
(1) Total landfill waste intensity.
(2) Subject to final certification by third-party auditor.
Bureau Veritas has 
validated Colgate’s Zero 
Landfill Waste definition 
and the Zero Waste to 
Landfill status of
Colgate’s sites.
Reducing Waste to Landfill  (1)(2) 
36912
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010cubic meters / ton of productkilograms / ton of products36912
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 20101.0511.088 1.1281.2491.3531.6572.004
10.64
10.18
9.68
8.82
8.25
6.496.20
As part of our 2020 Sustainability Strategy, we have committed to halve our 
manufacturing waste sent to landfill per ton of product compared to 2010, working toward our goal of Zero Waste.
 Colgate’s T rash to Treasure Awards program provides recognition to sites meeting 
our Zero Landfill Waste definition as well as those sites that send less than 5 percent 
of waste to landfills. So far our Hill’s Etten ‑Leur, Netherlands; Hustopece, Czech 
Republic; and Richmond, Indiana sites have received Colgate’s Zero Waste to Landfill award. In addition, nine plants in 2016 received Performance Leader recognition for sending 5 percent or less of their waste to landfill.
 Recognizing that employee engagement is an important key to improving r ecycling 
rates, Colgate EOHS managers from Hill’s Pet Nutrition, North America and Latin America conducted a Train-the-Trainer Trash to Treasure event at our manufacturing facility in Mission Hills, Mexico. The goal of the event was to bring training to the EOHS community regarding how to conduct a Trash to Treasure event and lead other sites in doing the same. Planetpage 104
Reducing Consumer Waste
We recognize the importance of reducing waste at every 
stage of the product life cycle, including at the end-of-life of our products and packaging. We have committed to improve the recyclability of our packaging, committing resources to enable breakthrough innovation in Oral Care packaging. We have also committed to deliver 100 percent recyclable packaging in our Personal Care, Home Care and Hill’s Pet Nutrition categories. See page 71 for more information on our packaging commitments and progress.
 Building a circular economy in which industrial 
materials and packaging can be recycled and reused is an important part of a sustainable future. In addition to commitments for our own packaging, Colgate has committed to work with stakeholders to drive continuous improvement in local recycling systems.
 In 2014, we became one of the initial investors 
in the Closed Loop Fund to develop local recycling infrastructure. In the U.S., municipalities often lack access to the capital needed to invest in recycling programs and infrastructure. The Closed Loop Fund provides zero-interest loans to municipalities and below-market loans to private companies with a goal to develop infrastructure and improve recycling rates. The fund will also seek to coinvest with local private and public investors to magnify its impact. The fund has invested in collection sortation and processing of waste. To learn more, visit closedloopfund.com. Progress is being measured using five key metrics:
1. Tons diverted2. Metric tons of GHG emissions3. Economic benefit to municipalities4. Households reached or represented5. Coinvestment dollars leveraged
 Additionally, Colgate Brazil has been a partner of 
CEMPRE (Compromisso Empresarial para Reciclagem, or Business Commitment for Recycling) since 2015. CEMPRE was created in 1992 and is the biggest association in Brazil that promotes the concept of integrated management of solid waste. 
The Closed Loop Fund has invested in 11 projects in 10 states, improving recycling access and 
diversion for the equivalent of 500,000 households and generating 400,000 tons of feedstock across the U.S. by 2025.Building Recycling Infrastructure
Planetpage 105
Colgate currently partners with eco-innovator TerraCycle® in the U.S., Mexico, Brazil, 
Australia, New Zealand, Japan and China. TerraCycle® recycles and “upcycles” 
oral care packaging collected at schools, stores and other locations into new and 
affordable eco ‑friendly products. Through this partnership, we have diverted more 
than 5.8 million pieces of waste from landfills. Over 27,000 locations and 5.4 million 
people are engaged in recycling.
 Participating locations are able to raise funds for schools and charities of their  
choice as an incentive for recycling. TerraCycle® has recycled millions of pieces of oral 
care waste through our recycling programs since the partnership launched in 2010.
To engage consumers to recycle Colgate oral care packaging, Colgate and TerraCycle® partnered with both ShopRite and 
Meijer stores in 2016 to run recycled playground giveaways. In-store displays drove awareness of the Colgate oral care 
recycling program and publicized a contest for schools to compete to win a playground made from recycled toothbrushes and toothpaste tubes.Recycled Playground ChallengePlanetpage 106
Commitment to Sustainable Buildings
For many years now, Colgate has committed to the U.S. Green Building Council 
(USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certification for all of our new construction projects anywhere in the world. We have utilized the LEED green building rating system to help design and construct our manufacturing sites, technology centers, warehouses and offices as a way to help reduce the Company’s overall exposure to water and climate change—related issues and offer a healthier, more comfortable work environment.
 Currently, Colgate has 14 facilities which have achieved 17 LEED Certifications,  
with nine more projects registered and underway. Our LEED projects have been conducted in the U.S., Latin America, Asia and Europe. In addition, we utilize several 
third‑party distribution centers which are LEED ‑certified.
 In 2016, Colgate was honored with the 2015 Ray Anderson Radical Industrialism  
Award for exemplifying sustainability with USGBC’s leadership in the evolution of green manufacturing. Sponsored by the Ray C. Anderson Foundation, USGBC presents his namesake award each year to a leader in the manufacturing sector whose commitment to and achievements in sustainability exemplify Ray’s vision, integrating sustainability into the very heart of their company.
 Colgate has been a member company of the USGBC since 2007. Colgate is 
also a Charter member of the USGBC LEED User Group: Industrial Facilities, which collaboratively engages in the advancement of LEED and green building practices for 
the global manufacturing sector. Further information about Colgate’s LEED ‑certified 
buildings is available on the USGBC “Green Building Information Gateway” at  
gbig.org.
Colgate opened the doors to its latest LEED ‑certified facility in Sri City, India in early 2016. This oral care manufacturing 
facility is Colgate’s first LEED ‑certified site in India. The plant recycles treated wastewater, has efficient water fixtures, was 
constructed with locally manufactured and extracted materials, has a waste management policy to collect and segregate 
waste at the source and uses highly efficient refrigeration systems.LEED-Gold in India 
Nearly
 30%  
of Colgate people  
enjoy the health  
and wellness benefits 
associated with  
working in a  
LEED ‑certified facility.70%
 of our toothbrushes  
are manufactured in 
LEED ‑certified facilities.
*“LEED” and related logos are trademarks owned by the U.S. Green Building Council and are used with permission.Planetpage 107
Our Commitment to No Deforestation
In 2014, Colgate issued a Policy on No Deforestation 
to support a vision for a future without deforestation. Colgate is working to meet our goal of no deforestation by 2020. In 2015, we also joined in the CDP and We Mean Business Coalition’s “Road to Paris 2015” commitments, committing to remove commodity-driven deforestation from supply chains by 2020.
 Deforestation is one of Colgate’s Key Sustainability 
Issues identified on page 10. It is an important issue for our business from a social, environmental and reputational risk standpoint. The commitments in our policy will help us to manage the deforestation risks in our supply chain for pulp and paper, palm oil and derivatives, soy and soy oil and beef tallow.
 Below are highlights and updates on our pr ogress.
Pulp and Paper
Much of Colgate’s packaging material utilizes wood-derived or paper-based products. Approximately 90 percent of our pulp and paper is certified or is in the process of being certified as being sourced from responsibly managed forests. We give preference for verification of pulp and paper supply to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification standards, but utilize other respected certification schemes as geography and availability necessitate. We have also set packaging targets for 2020, includ -
ing increasing the recycled content of our packaging to 50 percent (see page 73). Approximately 41 percent of Colgate’s paper and board packaging materials by weight globally come from recycled sources. Colgate will continue our long-standing strategy to increase the use of recycled materials as well as our efforts to  optimize the use of other packaging materials.
 We have also taken steps to ensure compliance 
with the U.S. Lacey Act, which requires all product and disposable packaging to be comprised of legally sourced wood or other plant-based material. Moving forward, Colgate will perform a deep dive mapping of our pulp and paper-based materials supply chain, and we plan to issue a separate pulp and paper sourcing policy in 2017. The mapping will enable improved traceability and risk assessment of this supply chain, and from this activity Colgate will develop more specific plans to ensure policy implementation.
 In 2017, Colgate will begin partnering with the 
Rainforest Alliance to drive transformation in our pulp and paper supply chain.
Palm Oil, Palm Kernel Oil and Derivatives
Palm oil is one of the most widely traded vegetable oils in the world and is used in many food and household products. Over 85 percent of the world’s palm oil comes 
Planetpage 108
from Indonesia and Malaysia, where land is sometimes 
converted from forest to palm plantations, resulting in social and labor concerns, health issues, greenhouse gas emissions and impacts on biodiversity. Colgate uses palm oil, palm kernel oil and its derivatives in some of our soap products, toothpastes, antiperspirants, deodorants and household cleaners.
 Colgate is committed to sourcing r esponsible palm 
oil, palm kernel oil and palm oil derivatives that do not contribute to deforestation. Our commitment is to work to build a traceable supply chain with no deforestation of high conservation value and high carbon stock areas, no development on peatlands and no exploitation of indigenous people, local communities or workers. Our palm oil responsible sourcing policy, issued in July 2016, addresses the key requirements to our suppliers to build global supply chains that meet Colgate’s palm oil policy criteria.
Milestones
We have recognized the need to source responsibly produced palm oil since 2007 when Colgate became a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Since then, we have taken action to responsibly source palm oil in the following ways:
n Developed a cross-commodity Policy on No Defor -
estation, highlighting palm oil as one of four com-modities to target for implementation (March 2014)
n Began palm oil membership with The Forest T rust, 
our strategic partner, to map our supply chain, en-gage our suppliers and drive transformation in the supply chain (May 2015)n Identified all palm oil derivatives in our supply chain 
(2015)
n Communicated our policy to our direct suppliers 
(ongoing)
n Requested information on traceability to the mill level 
from 100 percent of our direct suppliers of palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives (ongoing)
n Engaged direct suppliers of palm oil and palm ker nel 
oil to encourage increased transparency and to understand their plans for transformation of their supply chain (ongoing)
n Issued a commodity ‑specific Policy on Responsible 
and Sustainable Sourcing of Palm Oils (July 2016)
n Incorporated sustainability and responsible sour cing 
requirements in the supplier selection criteria and process
n Committed to procur e 100 percent certified palm oil 
and palm kernel oil (ongoing)
n Included palm oil suppliers in our Supplier Responsi -
ble Sourcing Assessment program (ongoing)
TraceabilityHaving visibility to the palm oil mills and plantations within our supply network is essential for Colgate to assess risk in our supply chain and to support transformation activities and drive changes on the ground. Colgate is working with The Forest Trust to achieve the traceability goals for palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives. Colgate’s global traceability to palm oil and palm kernel oil materials is 96 percent to the mill level, and we have a goal of achieving full traceability to the plantation/source by year-end 2020.
Colgate Global Traceability to the Mill
Geography  Palm Oil  Palm Kernel Oil
U.S. N/A  97% 
Latin America  100%  97% 
Thailand  84%  97% 
Europe, Middle East and Africa  98%  94% 
Weighted Total  95%  97% Planetpage 109
 The percentages in the table reflect the percentage 
of palm oil and palm kernel oil for each purchasing 
market that can be traced back to the origin mill. Overall, we can identify the mill sources for 93 percent of Colgate’s palm kernel oil supply and 98 percent of our palm oil supply by volume. Being able to identify the mill sources for our palm supply allows us to prioritize upstream suppliers for engagement based on associated risk. It also allows us to seek further information and respond if concerns arise regarding stakeholders within our supply chain and is a critical step toward our goal of achieving full traceability to the plantation/source.
 Colgate buys palm oil and palm kernel oil for 
production in the U.S., Latin America, Thailand, Turkey and South Africa. With regards to palm oil derivatives, Colgate’s traceability commitments extend to the origin source of the palm derivatives that Colgate purchases. Achieving traceability in the derivatives supply chain comes with challenges due to the complexity of the supply. In partnership with The Forest T rust we have started 
the traceability journey with our palm oil derivatives suppliers. We have determined key supply chain points for achieving traceability goals in these complex supply chains which include:
n First importer: the company (usually a refiner/trader) 
that has imported palm oil/palm products from a producing country to the country of ingredient manufacturing;
n First refiner: Refiner in the country of production that 
sources crude palm oil or palm kernel oil directly from mills or from aggregators like crushers, traders or dealers;
n Mill: the first major aggregation point for fr esh fruit 
bunches after having been harvested;
n Plantation: the farms, estates, smallholder 
operations, etc. where the oil palm is planted and fresh fruit bunches are harvested.
 Through this work, Colgate will be an important 
catalyst to increase the transparency of supplier companies in the oleochemical industry.
  Palm Oil & Palm Kernel Oil  Palm Oil Derivatives  Total  
Certified Oils (% by weight)  73%  0%  
GreenPalm Certificates (% by weight)  27%  55%  
Total Coverage  100%  55%  81%CertificationAs a step in the transformation journey toward responsibly sourced palm oils, Colgate is procuring certified oils as detailed below.
In 2017, we will continue to increase the percentage of palm oil, palm kernel oil and palm oil derivatives that are physically certified.
Policy Implementation 
Colgate engages with the palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives suppliers regarding the robustness of their own responsible sourcing policies and implementation plans, and their plans to achieve compliance with Colgate’s policy.
 Colgate’s policy implementation plan activity includes 
understanding suppliers’ progress and actions toward meeting Colgate’s responsible and sustainable palm oil sourcing policy. The focus includes the suppliers’ own policy commitments, traceability status, grievance process, transparency and verification activities. The approach measures the supplier’s performance on achieving its goals to close the gaps identified and promotes a better understanding of the challenges each supplier has, as well as identifying opportunities.Planetpage 110
Transformation 
With risk assessment analysis and policy implementation activities, Colgate makes informed decisions about which producing suppliers and regions to support in transformation and in order to have a positive, tangible impact on the practices on the ground within Colgate’s supply chain.
 This direct transformation work is in addition 
to monitoring and ensuring progress of Colgate’s suppliers’ own efforts at transformation.
Next Steps
As the next step on our journey toward sustainable palm oil, we will:
n Work with suppliers and external expert 
organizations to identify potential social or environmental risk in our supply chain and to address those risks through transformation actions
n Achieve full traceability of our palm oil, palm kernel 
oil and palm oil derivatives supply chains back to the 
first refineries, mills and to the plantation by year ‑end 
2020
n Purchase increasing volumes of physical certified 
sustainable palm oil and palm kernel oil each year with a goal to source 100% by year-end 2017
n Purchase increasing volumes of physical certified 
sustainable palm oil derivatives 
n Communicate the expectation that suppliers publish 
concession maps
n Measure suppliers’ conformance to our policy based 
on third ‑party verification.
Soy
Soy, or soy oil, is an ingredient used in certain Colgate products.
 Colgate supports efforts such as the Soy Moratorium 
that help minimize deforestation from soy expansion and increase transparency in the soy sector. Colgate has mapped our soy product supply chains globally to understand our direct usage and geography of supply. We are also committed to:
n Working with our suppliers in Brazil and any other 
high-risk areas to assess the availability of soy that does not contribute to deforestation and will increase our purchases of soy from these sources
n By year-end 2017, procuring soy and soy derivatives 
that are not linked to deforestation, verifying this 
through independent third ‑party verification and 
monitoring.
Tallow
Tallow is a key ingredient in bar soap production and is a cattle by-product. Colgate sources tallow from suppliers in North America, Latin America and Europe.
 In Brazil, there ar e concerns that rising demand for 
beef as a food source is prompting farmers to clear part of the Amazon rainforest and other ecologically sensitive regions for cattle ranching. Currently, we require Brazilian suppliers to certify that they are following the environmental and social requirements set forth by the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA). We are also working to minimize the amount of tallow purchased from high-risk areas. We will continue to work with our suppliers to minimize the amount of tallow purchased from high-risk areas with a goal of eliminating such purchases as soon as possible. Moving forward, we will:
n Collaborate with industry and stakeholder groups to 
work toward zero deforestation in this area
n By year-end 2017, require all applicable suppliers to be in conformance with the Minimum Criteria for Industrial Scale Cattle Operations in the Brazilian Amazon Biome set in 2009.page 111
AIM-PROGRESS – Colgate is an active member of AIM-PROGRESS, serving on its 
leadership team. AIM-PROGRESS is a global industry forum to promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. It is a global initiative supported and sponsored by the European Brands Association in Europe and the Grocery Manufacturers Association in North America.
Alliance for a Cavity-Free Future (ACFF) – As a founding sponsor of the Alliance for a 
Cavity-Free Future (ACFF), Colgate has joined a worldwide group of experts seeking to promote integrated clinical and public health action in order to stop caries initiation and progression and to move towards a cavity-free future for all age groups.
American Cleaning Institute (ACI) – Colgate has signed on to the American Cleaning 
Institute’s Charter for Sustainable Cleaning, which requires companies to have systems in place for continual assessment, review and improvement of sustainability performance, including raw material selection, resource use and occupational health and safety, at every stage of the product life cycle. We also participate in their sustainability metrics program.
American Dental Association (ADA) – Colgate partners with the American Dental 
Association Foundation each year to sponsor the “Give Kids A Smile
®” program, 
providing oral health education and free preventive and restorative care to children from low-income families. Each year, approximately 350,000 underserved children benefit from more than 1,500 events thanks to the efforts of 40,000 or more annual volunteers.
American Institute for Packaging and the Environment (AMERIPEN) – Colgate 
joined with other companies in 2011 to found this organization, which is focused on coordinating the industry’s environmental packaging efforts.
CDP – Colgate has reported our carbon emissions to CDP (formerly Carbon 
Disclosure Project) since 2004. We now respond to the CDP Climate, CDP Water and CDP Forest Disclosures and survey our suppliers through the CDP Supply Chain Program.
CEMPRE – In 2015, Colgate joined Compromisso Empresarial para Reciclagem 
(Business Commitment for Recycling) (CEMPRE) in Brazil as a member corporation. CEMPRE promotes the concept of integrated management of solid waste, promotes consumer recycling measures and implements education and awareness programs about the importance of the “3Rs,” reducing, reusing and recycling program. 
Another important element of Colgate’s sustainability strategy is our use of external partnerships to complement 
our strong internal capability. Colgate has many such partnerships with a broad array of organizations, including suppliers, research institutions, universities, industry and nonprofit organizations. Here are just some of Colgate’s sustainability partners:Partnerships
page 112
Closed Loop Fund  – In 2014, Colgate became one of the initial investors in the Closed 
Loop Fund to develop local recycling infrastructure. This fund provides zero interest 
loans to municipalities and below market loans to private companies, with a goal to develop infrastructure and improve recycling rates. The fund’s goal is to invest $100 million in the next five years and divert 27 million tons of waste from U.S. landfills. 
Conference Board Chief EH&S Officers’ Council – Colgate participates in the 
Conference Board Chief EH&S Officers’ Council. Our membership enables peer ‑to‑
peer benchmarking of leading EH&S strategies, practices and processes.Consumer Goods Forum – Colgate’s Chairman, President and CEO is on the Board 
of Directors of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), and we participate in the CGF Sustainability Steering Team and Social Steering Team. We support CGF’s collective commitments related to social and environmental matters.
Environmental Defense Fund Climate Corps – Colgate hosted a Climate Corps fellow 
in 2016 focusing on quantification of sustainable building performance.
The Forest Trust (TFT) – Colgate is a palm oil member of The Forest Trust (TFT), 
which is working with Colgate to meet our palm traceability and responsible sourcing commitments.
Global Child Dental Fund (GCDF) – Colgate is the founding and principal sponsor of 
this group, which builds on the achievements of the United Kingdom government-funded Global Child Dental Health Taskforce program. We established this group in partnership with the World Health Organization with the goal of eradicating dental cavities in children globally by 2026.
Grocery Manufacturers Association (GMA) – As a member of the Grocery 
Manufacturers Association, Colgate contributed to the development of the Smart Label
TM initiative. This platform will enable consumers to obtain additional details 
about products by scanning a QR code or doing an online search to reach a landing page with information on ingredients.
International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Products (AISE) – 
Colgate is a charter member of the AISE flagship initiative, the Charter for Sustainable Cleaning. The AISE Charter is a comprehensive program that ensures continual improvement in the sustainability of our home care products, covering production, design and consumption. 
National Dental Association (NDA) – Colgate’s commitment to improve children’s oral 
health in the community includes a long-term partnership with the National Dental Association (NDA), the world’s largest minority oral health association.
Partnerships
page 113
The Nature Conservancy – Colgate is working with The Nature Conservancy to raise 
awareness of water issues in the U.S. and encourage consumers to conserve this vital resource.
Red Cross – Colgate provides financial support to the Red Cross in the event of 
large scale disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes. We also donate personal care products for those who have been displaced from their homes. Additionally, Colgate matches employee donations to the Red Cross through our Matching Gift Program.
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) – Colgate is a member of this group, 
which is working on solutions for the use and growth of sustainable palm oil.
Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) – Colgate is a member of the RTRS, an 
internationally recognized forum working to develop and promote a standard of sustainability for the production, processing, trading and use of soy.
Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC) – Colgate is a Global 
Partner in the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry. Colgate supports SETAC’s mission to develop principles and practices for protection, enhancement and management of the environment by providing a forum where professionals can exchange ideas and discuss environmental challenges, regulations, research and development and environmental education.
Starlight Children’s Foundation
® – For more than 26 years, Colgate has been a 
sponsor of Starlight Children’s Foundation®, a leading global charity that partners with 
experts to improve the life and health of kids and families around the world. Since 
1989, Colgate has contributed more than $12.1 million to support programs such as Starlight
® Fun Center® mobile entertainment units and iPad tablet technology in 
hospitals in the U.S. to offer fun and distraction for pediatric patients. 
The Sustainability Consortium – Colgate is an active member of the Home and 
Personal Care Sector of The Sustainability Consortium, which is committed to improving product sustainability. Colgate is also on the Corporate Advisory Council of this group.
TerraCycle
® – Over two million people around the world are collecting used Colgate 
packaging to be made into new products by TerraCycle®. 
Partnershipspage 114
United Nations (UN) Global Compact – Colgate-Palmolive supports the United 
Nations Global Compact and is working to align our operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption, and we are taking action in support of UN Sustainable Development Goals. 
United Nations (UN) CEO Water Mandate – Colgate-Palmolive is pleased to support 
the United Nations CEO Water Mandate. 
U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR – Colgate is an active partner of the EPA’s industrial sector 
and has been named an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for six years in a row. Additionally, 81 percent of Colgate’s manufacturing sites have achieved U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry recognition.
U.S. EPA Green Power Partner – In 2014, Colgate joined the U.S. EPA’s Green 
Power Partnership, which encourages the voluntary use of green power to reduce the environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity use. Partners benefit from the use of green power, while supporting the development of renewable energy in the United States. Colgate was named to the National Top 100 list in 2016, representing the largest green power users within the Partnership. 
U.S. EPA SmartWay –
 In the U.S., Colgate ‑Palmolive and Hill’s Pet Nutrition are U.S. 
EPA SmartWay Transport Partners. The program helps the freight transportation 
sector improve supply chain efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) – Colgate has been a member company of 
the USGBC since 2007. Colgate is also a Charter Member of the USGBC LEED User Group: Industrial Facilities, which actively engages in the advancement of green building practices for manufacturing sites.
Walden Asset Management – Colgate consulted with Walden Asset Management to 
develop our new climate change commitments and our 2015 to 2020 Strategy.
Water For People – Colgate launched our partnership with Water For People in 2013. 
Colgate’s contributions to Water For People’s Everyone Forever program helped them to reach nearly 338,000 people since 2013 with water, sanitation systems and/or health and hygiene education.
World Resources Institute (WRI) – Colgate is a member of WRI’s Corporate 
Consultative Group to share knowledge and stay informed on key environmental issues. Colgate also uses the WRI Aqueduct tool to assess a variety of water-related risks in our operations, including water stress, drought and flood.
Partnershipspage 115
Key Performance Indicators
 (1) The number of occupational injuries and illnesses that require medical treatment per 200,000 work hours.
 (2) The number of occupational injuries and illnesses causing employees to be absent from work per 200,000 work hours.
 (3) A violation or citation issued by a governmental authority with jurisdiction.
 (4) Fines associated with Safety Notices of Violations (NOVs). 
 (5) Salaried and clerical people participating in annual training on and certification o f the Company’s Code of Conduct.
 (6) At-risk suppliers who have undergone a r esponsible sourcing self-assessment and/or third-party audit. 2016 target of 75 percent.
 (7) Cash and in-kind contributions to charitable organizations, including spending for the Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program in Colgate’s 20 largest subsidiaries 
(by oral care sales).
 (8) In-kind and product donations by Colgate to charitable organizations.
 (9) Packages meeting all three criteria are considered recyclable: 1) the package is made of a material that is widely accepted for recycling, 2) the package can be separated into material(s) that can be recycled, and 3) the package material can be reprocessed into a preferred valuable feedstock.
 (10) The performance results ar e based on representative products from the product portfolio evaluated against comparable Colgate products across seven impact 
areas to characterize likely improvement in the sustainability profile, based on review of quantitative and qualitative data.People Unit 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Approximate Number of 
EmployeesNumber 35,800 34,700 36,000 36,600 38,100 39,200 38,600 37,700 37,400 37,700 37,900 36,700
Minority Officials and Managers in the U.S.% 24.6 24.6 24.9 27.2 27.2 28.9 32.1 31.0 31.0 33.0 34.0 33.0
Minorities in Workforce (U.S.)% 27.9 28.9 28.6 29.5 29.0 28.8 32.0 30.0 30.0 31.0 32.0 31.0
Women Officials and Managers (Global)% 29.3 30.6 32.0 32.9 36.2 36.6 38.2 33.0 34.0 35.0 35.0 36.0
Women in Workforce (Global)% 34.0 36.1 37.0 38.9 40.7 40.7 39.4 39.0 39.0 38.0 37.0 37.0
Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements
% 41.0 44.5 47.0 24.0 24.0
Total Recordable Rate (1)(18)Number 0.72 0.70 0.57 0.47 0.49 0.49 0.48 0.40 0.39 0.35 0.32 0.28
Lost Workday Case  Rate
 (2)(18)Number 0.20 0.22 0.19 0.12 0.11 0.12 0.11 0.08 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.05
Safety Notices of  Violation
 (3)Number 1 0 0 5 2 0 2 0 3 0 0 0
Safety Fines Paid ($) (4)$ 300 0 016,899 7,800 0 4,032 0 250 7,800 0 0
Total children reached through Colgate’s Bright Smiles, Bright Futures program since 1991Million Number650 700 750 800 850 900
Annual Code of Conduct training
 (5)% 100 100 100 100 100 100
Supplier Responsible Sourcing Assessment Participation
 (6)% 46 57 62 73 75
Performance Unit 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Global Sales $MM 11,397 12,238 13,790 15,330 15,327 15,564 16,734 17,085 17,420 17,277 16,034 15,195
Global Charitable Contributions — Cash
 (7) $MM 7.3 7.1 8.3 9.7 20.9 17.8 17.6 32.0 23.6 23.8 23.3 24.6
Global Charitable Contributions — in-kind
 (8)$MM 26.3 21.9 20.1 32.0 10.4 5.6 5.0 5.6
Recycled Content % 35 40 40 37 41
Recyclable Packaging (9)% 78
More Sustainable Products
 (10)(18)% 24 48 72 85 78page 116
Key Performance Indicator s
 (11) We created a data management protocol in alignment with the GHG Protocol developed by World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council on 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD). This protocol is used to recalculate our data set each year based on acquisitions, divestitures, new plants, plant closures and 
updated GHG factors. There might be changes in this report made to the data that had been reported previously due to third ‑party validation, fugitive emissions 
and purchased electricity emission factors that become available late in the reporting cycle, adjustments in the Scope 2 emissions that resulted from these data 
updates and changes in the calculation methodology for Scope 2 emissions which occurred in May 2016.
 (12) Data varies slightly from pr evious reporting due to boundary changes and updated reporting methodology.
 (13)  Includes impact of renewable energy certificate purchases. 
 (14) Represents site ‑related spills or accidental releases that reach a water body, groundwater or soils or affect a third ‑party. As of 2012, significant spills are reported, 
which are defined as any spills that are included in our financial statement.
(15)  An environmental violation or citation issued by a governmental authority with jurisdiction. 
(16)  Fines associated with Environmental Notices of V iolations (NOVs).
 (17) Percentage by spend of Tier I suppliers and suppliers of carbon or water intensive materials, including our largest raw material suppliers and contract 
manufacturers, responding to the CDP Supply Chain Program Climate or Water Disclosures.
 (18) Subject to final certification by third ‑party auditor.Planet Unit 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Energy Efficiency per Ton 
of Production (12)(18)MWh/ton of product 0.46 0.44 0.43 0.42 0.41 0.42 0.40 0.40 0.39 0.38 0.37 0.36
CO
2 Emissons (11)(12)(13)(18)th. MT 706 698 695 664 627 655 645 631 640 626 604 531
CO2 Emissions  
Intensity (11)(18) kg/ton of product157 147 144 141 135 138 133 130 127 124 119 104
Water Use Efficiency
 (18) m3/ton of product1.54 1.35 1.31 1.25 1.18 1.13 1.09 1.09 1.07 1.05 1.04 1.04
Wastewater Chemical Oxygen Demand
 (12)(18)kg/ton of product 3.09 3.11 3.01 2.75 2.71 3.04 2.87 2.92 2.85 2.82 3.02 2.96
Waste to Landfill
 (18)kg/ton of product10.64 10.18 9.68 8.82 8.25 6.49 6.20
Number of Significant Spills
 (14)Number 1 2 2 2 2 1 3 0 0 0 0 0
Environmental Notices of Violation
 (15)Number 3 0 8 8 7 2 5 5 5 8 2 7
Environmental Fines Paid
 (16)$ 0 026,200 9,057 1,000 050,094 1,065 38,582 128,600 4,900 2,075
Certified Palm Oil % 100 100 100 100
Certified Palm Kernel Oil % 94 100 100 100
Palm Oil Derivatives % 100 55
Certified Palm Oil, Palm Kernel Oil and Palm Oil Derivatives% 100 81
Palm Oil Traceable to the Mill% 54 95
Palm Kernel Oil Traceable to the Mill% 71 97
CDP Supply Chain Program Climate Disclosure Participation
 (17)% 37 39 44
CDP Supply Chain Program Water Disclosure Participation
 (17)% 27 33 31page 117
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
General Standard Disclosures
General Standard 
DisclosuresPage Number / Reference Disclosure Title
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
G4-1 p. 3 Statement from senior decision-maker
G4-2 p. 9, 10 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILEG4-3 p. 4 Name of the organization
G4-4 p. 4, 55 Activities, brands, products, and services
G4-5 p. 4 Location of headquarters
G4-6 p. 4 Location of operations
G4-7 p. 4 Ownership and legal form
G4-8 p. 4 Markets served
G4-9 p. 4, 5 Scale of the organization
G4-10 p. 115 Information on employees and other workers
G4-11 p. 115 Collective bargaining agreements
G4-12 p. 4 Supply chain
G4-13 p. 5
10-K Report (p. 18–21)Significant changes to the organization  
and its supply chain
G4-14 p. 80 Precautionary Principle or approach
G4-15 p. 111 External initiatives
G4-16 p. 111 Membership of associations
IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES
G4-17 p. 4
10-K Report (p. 1–4, 63, 95–98)Entities included in the consolidated financial statements
G4-18 p. 9, 10 Defining report content and Aspect Boundaries
G4-19 p. 10 List of material Aspects
G4-20 p. 9, 10 Explanation of the material Aspect and its Boundary
G4-21 p. 9, 10 Explanation of the material Aspect and its Boundary
G4-22 p. 116 Restatements of information
G4-23 p. 2 Changes in reportingpage 118
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
General Standard Disclosures (continued)
General Standard 
DisclosuresPage Number / Reference Disclosure Title
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
G4-24 p. 9, 10 List of stakeholder groups
G4-25 p. 9 Identifying and selecting stakeholders
G4-26 p. 9, 10 Approach to stakeholder engagement
G4-27 p. 9, 10 Key topics and concerns raised
REPORT PROFILEG4-28 p. 2 Reporting period
G4-29 p. 2 Date of most recent report
G4-30 p. 2 Reporting cycle
G4-31 p. 2 Contact point for questions regarding the report 
G4-32 p. 2 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Guidelines
G4-33 p. 11 External assurance 
GOVERNANCEG4-34 p. 6, 11
10-K Report (p. 3)https://www.colgatepalmolive.com/en/us/corp/about/governanceGovernance structure 
G4-38 p. 6, 1110-K Report (p. 3)https://www.colgatepalmolive.com/en/us/corp/about/governanceComposition of the highest governance body and  its committees 
G4-39 p. 6, 1110-K Report (p. 3)https://www.colgatepalmolive.com/en/us/corp/about/governanceChair of the highest governance body 
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
G4-56 p. 5 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviorpage 119
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
Specific Standard Disclosures
Category: Economic
DMA and Indicators Page Number / Reference Omissions Disclosure Title
Aspect: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
G4-DMA p. 4, 53, 54 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-EC1 p. 4, 53, 54 Direct economic value generated and 
distributed
G4-EC2 p. 80, 91 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change
G4-EC3 10-K Report (p. 38, 48, 70, 81, 87, 88) Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
G4-EC4 10-K Report Financial assistance received from government 
Category: Environmental
DMA and Indicators Page Number / Reference Omissions Disclosure Title
Aspect: MATERIALS
G4-DMA p. 71, 72, 107 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-EN2 p. 71–73, 107 Recycled input materials used
Aspect: ENERGYG4-DMA p. 83–85 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-EN3 p. 86 Energy consumption within the organization
G4-EN4 p. 87, refer to CDP Climate Change Energy consumption outside of the 
organization
G4-EN5 p. 86 Energy intensity
G4-EN6 p. 86, refer to CDP Climate Change Reduction of energy consumption
Aspect: WATER
G4-DMA p. 92 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-EN8 Refer to CDP Water Water withdrawal by source
G4-EN9 Refer to CDP Water Water sources significantly affected by 
withdrawal of water page 120
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
Specific Standard Disclosures (continued)
Category: Environmental (continued)
DMA and Indicators Page Number / Reference Omissions Disclosure Title
Aspect: EMISSIONS
G4-DMA p. 82–90 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-EN15 Refer to CDP Climate Change Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
G4-EN16 Refer to CDP Climate Change Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
G4-EN17 Refer to CDP Climate Change Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
G4-EN18 p. 116 GHG emissions intensity
G4-EN19 p. 82 Reduction of GHG emissions
Aspect: EFFLUENTS AND WASTEG4-DMA p. 102–105 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-EN22 Refer to CDP Water Water discharge by quality and destination
G4-EN23 Refer to CDP Water Waste by type and disposal method
G4-EN24 p. 116 Significant spills
Aspect: PRODUCTS AND SERVICESG4-DMA p. 56–66 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-EN27 p. 66–76 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental 
impacts of products and services
Aspect: COMPLIANCE
G4-DMA p. 80 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-EN29 p. 116 Non-compliance with environmental laws 
and regulations
Aspect: TRANSPORT
G4-DMA p. 87, 89, 90 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-EN30 p. 89, 90 Significant environmental impacts of 
transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforcepage 121
Specific Standard Disclosures (continued)
Category: Social
DMA and Indicators Page Number / Reference Omissions Disclosure Title
Sub-Category: Labor Practices and Decent Work
Aspect: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
G4-DMA p. 36–39 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-LA6 p. 37 Types of injury and rates of injury, 
occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities
Aspect: TRAINING AND EDUCATION
G4-DMA p. 20–22 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-LA9 p. 21 Average hours of training per year per 
employee
G4-LA10 p. 20–22 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs
G4-LA11 p. 22 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development review
Aspect: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
G4-DMA p. 31–34 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-LA12 p. 31–34 Diversity of governance bodies and 
employees
Sub-Category: Society
Aspect: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
G4-DMA p. 42, 43 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-SO1 p. 42–51 Operations with implemented local 
community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs
Aspect: PUBLIC POLICY
G4-DMA p. 6, 7 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-SO6 p. 7 Political contributions
Sub-Category: Product Responsibility
Aspect: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING
G4-DMA p. 56, 75 Disclosure on Management Approach
G4-PR5 p. 56, 75 Results of surveys measuring customer 
satisfactionGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indexpage 122
The following is provided to supplement 
certain financial measures discussed in the letter to shareholders and the financial highlights section of this report both as reported (GAAP) and excluding the impact of certain items (Non-GAAP) as explained at right. Investors and analysts use these financial measures in assessing the Company’s business performance, and management believes that presenting these 
financial measures on a Non ‑GAAP basis 
provides them with useful supplemental information to enhance their understanding of the Company’s underlying business performance and trends. These Non-GAAP financial measures also enhance the ability 
to compare period ‑to‑period financial results. 
The Company uses these financial measures internally in its budgeting process, to evaluate segment and overall operating performance and as factors in determining compensation. While the Company believes that these financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company’s underlying business performance and trends, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP . In 
addition, these Non ‑GAAP financial measures 
may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies. (Dollars in Millions  Gross Pr ofit Diluted  
Except Per Share Amounts)  Margin  EPS  
 2016  
As Reported (GAAP)  60.0%  $2.72  
2012 Restructuring Program (1) 0.3%  0.19 
Mexico Land Sale (2) – (0.07)
Litigation Matters (3) – 0.01  
Tax Matters (4) – (0.04)
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  60.3%  $2.81
2015  
As Reported (GAAP)  58.6%  $1.52  
Venezuela Deconsolidation (5) – 1.16  
2012 Restructuring Program (1) 0.1%  0.20 
Sale of Non-Core Product Lines (6) – (0.13)
Venezuela Remeasurements (7) – 0.02  
Litigation Matters (3) – 0.02 
Tax Matters (4) – 0.02
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.7%  $2.81
2014  
As Reported (GAAP)  58.5%  $2.36
2012 Restructuring Program (1) 0.2%  0.23
Venezuela Remeasurements (7) – 0.23
Litigation Matters (3) – 0.04
Mexico Land Sale (2) – –
Tax Matters (4) – 0.07
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.7%  $2.93
2013 
As Reported (GAAP)  58.6%  $2.38  
2012 Restructuring Program (1) 0.2%  0.30 
Venezuela Remeasurements (7) – 0.12
Litigation Matters (3) – 0.03  
Mexico Land Sale (2) – 0.01
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.8%  $2.84
2012 
As Reported (GAAP)  58.1%  $2.57  
2012 Restructuring Program (1) – 0.07 
Mexico Land Sale (2) 0.2%  0.02 
Business Realignment Initiatives (8) – 0.02
Excluding Items (Non-GAAP)  58.3%  $2.68 Note: Per share amounts have been restated to reflect the 
2013 two-for-one stock split.
 (1) Represents charges related to the 2012 Restructuring Program that began in the fourth quarter of 2012.
 (2) In 2016, represents a gain on the sale of land in Mexico. In 2012-2014, represents costs related to the sale of land in Mexico.
 (3) Represents charges for previously disclosed litigation matters.
 (4) Represents income tax (benefits) charges related to previously disclosed tax matters.
 (5) Represents a charge resulting from the deconsolidation of the Company’s Venezuelan operations.
 (6) Represents a gain on the sale of the Company’s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific.
 (7) In 2015 and 2014, represents remeasurement charges related to effective devaluations in Venezuela. In 2013, represents a charge related to a devaluation in Venezuela.
 (8) Represents costs associated with various global business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives.Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures page 123
Giving the World Reasons to Smile
page 124page 124
100% RECYCLED
100% POST-CONSUMER100%
 POST-CONSUMER
300 P ark Avenue  New York, NY 10022- 7499300 P ark Avenue  New York, NY 10022- 7499
300 P ark Avenue  New York, NY 10022- 7499300 P ark Avenue  New York, NY 10022- 7499
© 2017 Colgate-Palmolive Company  |  Design by Robert Webster Inc. (RWI), www.rwidesign.com  |  Printing by Universal Wilde2012  700
2013  750
2014  800
2015  850
2016  900
2020 1,300GoalMillions of Children Reached Through Bright Smiles, Bright Futures
