  
  
Contents   
Colgate   Corporate   Social   Responsibility   And   Sustainability   Report   2018   
  
3         Message   from   Noel   Wallace     
5          What’s   New   
7         2015   to   2020   Strategy     
9         2018   At   A   Glance     
11       2020   Sustainability   Commitments   Progress     
14       UN   Global   Compact   and   SDGs   
15       Company   Profile     
16       Sustainability   Management     
20       About   This   Report   
22       Governance   
27       PEOPLE    
57       PERFORMANCE     
73       PLANET     
111     Sustainability   Reporting   
111     Partnerships   
  
  
Bookmarks   above   are   clickable   when   the   PDF   is   downloaded.   Note   that   the   bookmarks   will   not   work   on   Android   mobile   devices.     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2     
    
 
A   welcome   letter   from   President   and   CEO,   Noel   Wallace   
  
  
Colgate-Palmolive   is   building   a   future   to   smile   about.   We're   supporting   the   well-being   of   
Colgate   people,   their   families,   and   the   communities   we   serve;   strengthening   the   
performance   of   our   Company;   and   acting   as   responsible   stewards   of   the   planet   we   share.   This   report   details   
how   we’re   working   toward   a   brighter   future   for   all   of   our   stakeholders.     
  
I   am   especially   pleased   about   Colgate’s   leadership   in   three   important   areas:   
  
Promoting   Children’s   Oral   Health   
  
Colgate   Bright   Smiles,   Bright   Futures®   is   our   flagship   oral   health   education   program,   reaching   children   
in   more   than   80   countries.    In   2018   we   passed   an   extraordinary   milestone:   since   the   program   was   
established   in   1991,   we’ve   reached   one   billion   children   and   their   families    with   free   dental   screenings  
and   oral   health   education.   
Saving   Water   
  
Colgate’s   #EveryDropCounts   campaign   reached   people   in   70+   countries   in   2018   with   our   message   to   
turn   off   the   tap   while   brushing.   We   spread   the   word   on   our   packaging,   through   online   videos,   and   most   
recently   with   our   sponsorship   of   water   activist   and   ultra-runner   Mina   Guli.   Joined   by   Colgate   runners   
along   the   way,   Mina’s   campaign   to   run   100   marathons   in   100   days   across   six   continents   spread   
awareness   of   water   scarcity   and   galvanized   a   movement   of   new   supporters   and   advocates.   
  
3   2018   Sustainability   at   Colgate-Palmolive   
  
Welcome   to   our   2019   Sustainability   Report,   where   you'll   learn   about   our   Sustainability   Strategy   
and   commitments   to   People,   Performance   and   Planet.   You'll   also   find   highlights   about   the   
progress   we've   made   this   year.     
  
  
Reducing   Plastic   Waste   
Reducing   plastic   waste   is   one   of   our   most   important   priorities.   We’ve   made   commitments   to   reduce   the   
use   of   plastic   in   our   packaging,   use   25%   recycled   content   in   our   plastic   packaging,   and   make   100%   of   
our   packaging   recyclable.   In   2018   we   joined   the   Ellen   MacArthur   Foundation's   New   Plastics   Economy   
Initiative,   reflecting   our   commitment   to   achieving   these   targets   and   others   by   2025.   Supporting   our   
goals,   we’re   finalizing   the   design   of   a   breakthrough,   recyclable   plastic   toothpaste   tube   that   we   will   begin   
testing   with   consumers.   
We   made   important   progress   in   other   priority   areas   as   well.    Seven   of   our   plants   have   achieved   TRUE   'Zero   
Waste'   certification   from   the   U.S.   Green   Building   Council   and   11   more   are   registered   and   underway.    These   18   
sites   span   five   continents   --   more   projects   in   more   regions   than   any   other   company.   
Colgate’s   leadership   in   these   and   other   areas   is   being   recognized;   the   company   was   named   to   both   the   2018   
Dow   Jones   Sustainability   World   and   North   America   Indices.   In   addition,   Colgate   was   recognized   as   2019   Best   
Company   for   Women,   Best   Company   for   Multicultural   Women   and   Best   Company   for   Millennials   and   was   
named   a   2019   U.S.   EPA   ENERGY   STAR   Partner   of   the   Year   for   the   9th   year   in   a   row.   
Of   course,   our   success   is   driven   by   the   efforts   of   Colgate   people   and   the   partnerships   we   have   forged   to   help   
achieve   our   goals.   We   believe   that   we   speed   up   our   progress   and   improve   results   when   we   engage   with   
universities,   governments,   suppliers   and   NGO’s   to   find   innovative   solutions   that   help   reduce   our   environmental  
footprint,   improve   our   communities   and   ensure   a   brighter   future   for   all.   
    
  
  
4   
  
 What's   New 
  
WELCOME   to   Colgate’ s   Sustainability   Report!   
Learn   about   Colgate’s   2018   sustainability   journey   and   progress.   Throughout   you   will   find   highlights   of   the   
activities   and   accomplishments   of   Colgate   People   around   the   world   as   they   brought   our   Sustainability   
Strategy   to   life   over   the   past   year.   Across   this   website   you   will   find   the   entire   content   of   our   2018   
sustainability   report,   live   as   of   May   10,   2019.   
Recent   News   
●Barron’ s   100   Most   Sustainable   U.S.   Companies:     Colgate   ranked   #19   on   Barron’ s   100   Most   
Sustainable   U.S.   Companies   and   was   ranked   3rd   among   Top   Consumer   Staples   companies.   
●America’ s   Most   Reputable   Companies   2019:    Colgate   ranked   on   top   25   America’ s   Most   
Reputable   Companies   2019.   
●America’ s   most   beloved   brands   in   2019:    Colgate   ranked   #25   among   Americans   favorite   
brands   in   brand   favorability ,   trust,   community   impact   and   the   likeliness   a   consumer   will   
recommend   our   brand.   
●The   WSJ   Management   Top   250:    Colgate    once   again   made   The   Wall   Street   Journal   
Management   Top   250   list   of   well-managed   companies   that   measures   corporate   effectiveness   
based   on   customer   satisfaction,   employee   engagement   and   development,   innovation,   social   
responsibility   and   financial   strength.   
●Top   Company   for   Executive   Women:    The   National   Association   for   Female   Executives   (NAFE)   
named   Colgate-Palmolive   a   Top   Company   for   Executive   Women.   
●Women’ s   Choice   Award:    Colgate-Palmolive   was   recognized   by   the   Women’ s   Choice   Award   in   
three   groups:   Best   Company   for   Women;   Best   Company   for   Multicultural   Women   and   Best   
Company   for   Millennials.   
●Best   Place   for   Women   &   Diverse   Managers   to   Work:    DiversityMBA   named   Colgate   a   Best   
Place   for   Women   &   Diverse   Managers   to   Work,   advancing   women   of   diverse   backgrounds   to   
leadership   roles.   
  
5     
  
  
  
●Recycled   Content   Demand   Champion:    Colgate   committed   to   The   Association   of   Plastic   
Recyclers   (APR)   Recycling   Demand   Champions   Campaign,   a   program   that   seeks   to   expand   
market   demand   for   recycled   resins   and   improve   plastic   recycling   in   North   America.   
●100   Best   Company   and   Best   Company   for   Multicultural   Women:     Colgate   was   recognized   by   
Working   Mother   Magazine   as   a   100   Best   Company   and   a   Best   Company   for   Multicultural   
Women,   helping   working   parents   succeed   at   home   and   at   work.   
●2019   World’s   Most   Ethical   Companies:    For   the   ninth   year   in   a   row,   Colgate   has   been   named   
among   the   World’s   Most   Ethical   companies   by   Ethisphere,   a   global   leader   in   defining   and   
advancing   the   standards   of   ethical   business   practices.   
●2019   Product   of   the   Year:    Palmolive   Luminous   Oils   Shower   Gel   was   voted   2019   Product   of   
the   Year   in   Australia.     
●2018   Best   of   Beauty   Awards:    EltaMD   UV   Clear   Sunscreen   received   a   Best   of   Beauty   Awards   
for   2018   from   Allure   Magazine,   a   leading   beauty   magazine   in   the   U.S.   
●2019   ENERGY   STAR®   Partner   of   the   Year :   Colgate   named   a   2019   ENERGY   STAR®   Partner   
of   the   Year   for   the   ninth   consecutive   year   and   has   received   the   Sustained   Excellence   Award   
for   continued   leadership   and   superior   contributions   to   ENERGY   STAR.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
6     
 Building   a   Future   to   Smile   About 
  
2015   to   2020   Strategy   
Colgate’s   2015   to   2020   Sustainability   Strategy   maintains   our   emphasis   on   People,   Performance   and   Planet   
with   focused,   measurable   goals   that   align   with   the   Company’s   business   objectives.   
WE   WILL:   
●Continuously   improve   employee   health   and   reduce   health   risks   by   15% (1)   
●Encourage   healthier   living   for   Colgate   People   and   their   families  
●Ensure   a   safe   and   healthy   work   environment   with   a   goal   of   zero   lost-time   incidents   
●Provide   education   and   tools   to   Colgate   People   to   elevate   financial   awareness   and   planning   
WE   WILL:   
●Expand   Bright   Smiles,   Bright   Futures TM    program   to   reach   1.3   billion   children   
●Invest   in   the   improvement   of   health,   education,   and   environment   for   thousands   of   people   in   
communities   around   the   globe   
●Partner   with   animal   shelters   to   help   over   2   million   dogs   and   cats   find   homes   
●Reach   60   million   people   annually   with   handwashing   education   
●Expand   Colgate   Cares   Day   globally   to   be   a   leader   in   volunteerism   
WE   WILL:   
●Improve   the   sustainability   profile   in   our   new   products   and   product   updates (2)   
●Commit   $250   million   to   drive   sustainability   with   breakthrough   product   and   process   innovation   
●Increase   the   recyclability   of   our   packaging   and   increase   recycled   content   to   50% (3)   
●Have   a   positive   impact   by   expanding   access   to   affordable   health   and   wellness   products   for   
millions   of   people   in   underserved   communities   
●Use   the   power   of   our   brands   to   build   awareness   and   drive   engagement   in   product   sustainability   
7   Helping   Colgate   People   and   Their   Families   Live   Better   
Contributing   to   the   Communities   Where   We   Live   and   Work   
Delighting   Consumers   and   Sustaining   Our   World   With   Our   Brands     
  
  
WE   WILL:   
●Reduce   our   manufacturing   water   intensity   by   half   compared   to   2002   
●Replenish   water   withdrawn   in   highly   stressed   regions   
●Increase   supplier   participation   in   our   water   stewardship   program   
●Partner   with   local   and   global   organizations   to   bring   clean   water   to   underserved   areas   of   the   
world   
●Promote   water   conservation   awareness   to   all   our   global   consumers   
WE   WILL:   
●Responsibly   source   forest   commodities   to   reach   zero   net   deforestation   
●Promote   use   of   renewable   energy   and   reduce   absolute   greenhouse   gas   emissions   from   
manufacturing   by   25%   compared   to   2002   
●Reduce   our   manufacturing   energy   intensity   by   one-third   compared   to   2002   
●Halve   our   manufacturing   waste   sent   to   landfill   per   ton   of   product   compared   to   2010,   working   
toward   our   goal   of   “Zero   Waste”   
●Partner   with   key   suppliers,   customers   and   consumers   to   reduce   energy,   greenhouse   gas   
emissions,   and   waste   
  
(1)    15%   risk   reduction   will   be   measured   considering   a   2013   baseline,   using   the   Global   Health   Risk   Assessment   tool,   available   to   
countries   with   100   or   more   employees.   
  
(2) The   performance   results   will   be   based   on   representative   new   products   and   product   updates   evaluated   against   comparable   Colgate   
products,   considering   a   2015   baseline,   across   seven   impact   areas   to   characterize   likely   improvement   in   the   sustainability   profile,   
based   on   review   of   quantitative   and   qualitative   data.   
  
(3)    Packages   meeting   all   three   criteria   are   considered   recyclable:   1)   the   package   is   made   of   a   material   that   is   widely   accepted   for   
recycling,   2)   the   package   can   be   separated   into   material(s)   that   can   be   recycled,   and   3)   the   package   material   can   be   reprocessed   into   
a   preferred   valuable   feedstock.   
  
  
  
  
8   Making   Every   Drop   of   Water   Count   
Reducing   Our   Impact   on   Climate   and   the   Environment     
 2018   At   A   Glance   
  
Colgate   People   around   the   world   are   coming   together   to   align   behind   our   sustainability   commitments   and   
continue   to   make   progress.   Below   are   some   highlights   and   accomplishments   of   our   progress   over   the   past   
year.     
  
●Reached   over    1   billion    children   with   oral   health   education   since   1991   through   our   Bright   Smiles   
Bright   Futures   program   
●Colgate   People   achieved    26   million    Healthy   Activity   Minutes   
●56   million    people   reached   with   handwashing   education   in   2018     
●Supplier   Responsible   Sourcing   Assessments   program   in   2018   assessed   more   than    80%    of   our   “at   
risk”   spend   
●10   million    pet   adoptions   since   2002   through   our    Hill’s   Food,   Shelter   &   Love™   program   
●Nearly    50%     of   2018   promotions   at   Colgate   were   women   
●Save   Water   conservation   campaign   activated   globally   and   reached   more   than     4   billion     people (1)   
●Through   our   partnership   withTerraCycle,   more   than   48,000   locations   engaged   in   recycling,   helping   
us   divert   nearly     9   million    pieces   of   oral   care   waste   from   landfills     
●Improved   the   sustainability   profile   of   over    96%     of   new   products   and   product   updates (2)   
  
●Approximately    43%    of   our   packaging   materials   by   weight   are   from   recycled   sources   
  
●Approximately     83%     of   our   packaging   is   recyclable   (personal   care,   home   care,   and   pet   nutrition)   
●54%     of   scientists   at   Colgate   are   women   
  
  
  
9   People   
Performance     
  
  
  
●450,000     people   reached   with   water   and   sanitation   and/or   health   and   hygiene   education   
since   2013   
●46%    reduction   in   water   use   per   ton   of   product   manufactured   versus   2002 (3)   
●41%     reduction   in   waste   sent   to   landfill   per   ton   of   product   manufactured   versus   2010 (3)   
●30%    reduction   in   greenhouse   gas   emissions   versus   2002   
●31%     reduction   in   energy   intensity   versus   2002 (3)   
●70%     of   palm   oil,   palm   kernel   oil   and   palm   oil   derivatives   purchases   are   certified   
●To   date,     11    Colgate   manufacturing    facilities   have   achieved   GBCI   TRUE   Zero   Waste   
certification   
  
  
  
  
(1)    Estimated   through   delivered   impressions   on   earned   and   social   media,   television   and   online   video.   
  
(2) The   performance   results   will   be   based   on   representative   new   products   and   product   updates   evaluated   against   comparable   Colgate   
products,   considering   a   2015   baseline,   across   seven   impact   areas   to   characterize   likely   improvement   in   the   sustainability   profile,   
based   on   review   of   quantitative   and   qualitative   data.   
  
(3)    Subject   to   final   verification   by   a   third-party   auditor .   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
10   Planet     
 2020   Sustainability   Commitments   Progress 
  
Highlights   of   the   progress   we   made   on   our   sustainability   commitments   this   year   are   described   below.   
Colgate   was   named   to   both   the   2018   Dow   Jones   Sustainability   World   and   North   America   Indices,   was   
recognized   as   a   U.S.   EPA   ENERGY   STAR   2018   Partner   of   the   Year   for   the   8th   year   in   a   row,   and   was   
named   to   the   CDP   Supplier   A   List   in   2018.   Read   further   to   learn   more   about   the   progress   we   have   made   on   
Colgate’s   Sustainability   Strategy.   
Helping   Colgate   People   and   Their   Families   Live   Better   
●In   2018,   the   Global   Health   Risk   Assessment   (HRA)   tool   was   available   in   50   countries,   providing   
access   to   60%   of   Colgate’s   workforce.   The   HRA   tool   helps   Colgate   employees   self-evaluate   
health   status   and   understand   health   risks   and   provides   confidential   feedback   to   motivate   
behavioral   change.   
  
●In   each   of   the   past   six   years,   more   than   60%   of   Colgate   employees   participated   in   our   Global   
Healthy   Activity   Challenge.   In   2018,   employees   logged   26   million   minutes   of   healthy   activity.     
  
●Colgate   is   working   to   support   employees   in   their   effort   to   be   financially   secure   at   every   stage   of   
their   lives.   Employees   in   more   than   100   countries   now   have   access   to   a   financial   wellness   toolkit,   
available   in   seven   languages.   
Contributing   to   the   Communities   Where   We   Live   and   Work   
●Colgate's   Bright   Smiles,   Bright   Futures®   (BSBF)   is   our   flagship   oral   health   education   program,   
reaching   children   in   more   than   80   countries.   In   2018   we   passed   an   extraordinary   milestone:   since   
the   program   was   established   in   1991,   we   have   reached   one   billion   children   and   their   families   with   
free   dental   screenings   and   oral   health   education.   
  
●Since   2002,   Hill’s   Food,   Shelter   &   Love™   program   has   provided   more   than   $290   million   in   pet   
food   to   more   than   1,000   pet   shelters   and   helped   more   than   ten   million   pets   find   their   forever   
homes   across   North   America.   
11   People     
  
  
●Colgate   is   working   with   public   health   officials,   academia   and   local   schools   and   clinics   to   educate  
millions   of   children   and   their   families   about   the   health   and   hygiene   benefits   of   handwashing   with   
soap.   Colgate   teaches   handwashing   as   part   of   our   BSBF   program.   Building   the   steps   for   proper   
handwashing   into   the   oral   care   component   of   BSBF,   the   program   creates   shared   value   for   both   
Colgate   and   society,   helping   to   improve   health   outcomes   while   building   brand   awareness   for   and   
the   reputation   of   Colgate’s   Protex   soap   brand.   
Delighting   Consumers   and   Sustaining   Our   World   With   Our   Brands   
●96%   of   the   products   evaluated   with   Colgate’s   Product   Sustainability   Scorecard   were   determined  
to   be   “more   sustainable,”   showing   an   improvement   in   at   least   one   of   the   following   areas:   
responsible   sourcing   and   raw   materials,   energy   and   greenhouse   gases,   water,   waste,   ingredient   
profile,   packaging   and   social   metrics. (1)   
●Colgate   has   made   great   strides   in   its   commitment   to   improving   the   sustainability   profile   of   our   
products   by   eliminating   the   use   of   microbeads,   phthalates,   and   parabens   as   ingredients.   In   2018,   
we   have   proactively   eliminated   the   use   of   triclocarban,   globally,   and   all   chromium-   containing   
pigments   from   our   products.   We   no   longer   manufacture   products   containing    triclosan   as   of   the   
second   quarter   2019.     
●Approximately   43%   of   our   packaging   materials   by   weight   globally   now   come   from   recycled   
sources   and   approximately   83%   of   our   packaging   is   considered   recyclable.   We   have   removed   
99%   of   PVC   from   our   packaging   and   plan   to   completely   eliminate   it   in   2019.   
●At   Colgate,   we   believe   in   sharing   what   goes   into   our   products   so   that   consumers   can   make   the   
best   decisions   about   what   is   right   for   them   and   their   families.   That’s   why   we   are   proud   to   embrace   
SmartLabel ,   a   digital   platform   that   goes   beyond   the   label   to   put   the   power   of   information   in   
consumers’   hands.   Consumers   can   simply   scan   the   barcode   on   Colgate-Palmolive   products   or   
visit   SmartLabel   website   to   find   information   on   product   allergens,   sourcing,   sustainability,   
ingredients   and   more.   
12   Performance     
Making   Every   Drop   of   Water   Count   
●In   2018,   Colgate   reduced   water   use   per   ton   of   production   by   nearly   46%   vs.   2002,   avoiding   
enough   water   use   to   fill   250   billion   glasses   of   water. (1)   
  
●Colgate   continues   to   scale   up   our   Save   Water   campaign   globally   to   promote   water   conservation  
awareness   with   on-package   messaging,   in-store   communications   and   social   media   and   through   a   
partnership   with   the   Nature   Conservancy   in   the   United   States.     
  
●Colgate’s   contributions   to   the   Water   For   People’s   Everyone   Forever   program   helped   the   
organization   reach   more   than   450,000   people   since   2013   with   water,   sanitation   systems   and/or   
health   and   oral   hygiene   education   in   Guatemala,   Peru   and   India.     
Reducing   Our   Impact   on   Climate   and   the   Environment   
●Colgate   continues   to   reduce   its   absolute   greenhouse   gas   emissions.   So   far,   we   have   reduced   our   
absolute   greenhouse   gas   emissions   by   approximately   30%   compared   to   2002. (2)   
  
●Working   towards   the   Company’s   goal   of   “Zero   Waste,”   Colgate   has   reduced   the   amount   of   waste   
per   ton   of   production   sent   to   landfills   by   nearly   41%   since   2010. (2)   
  
●Colgate   continues   to   make   progress   on   its   commitment   to   mobilize   resources   to   achieve   zero   net   
deforestation   by   2020   as   stated   in   our   policy   on   No   Deforestation.     
  
  
(1)    The   performance   results   are   based   on   representative   products   from   the   product   portfolio   evaluated   against   
comparable   Colgate   products   across   three   impact   areas   to   characterize   likely   improvement   in   the   sustainability   
profile,   based   on   review   of   quantitative   and   qualitative   data.     
  
(2) Subject   to   final   verification   by   a   third-party   auditor .   
  
  
13   Planet     
 UN   Global   Compact   and   SDGs 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
14   
  
  
Founded   in   1806,   Colgate-Palmolive   Company   is   a   publicly   traded   consumer   products   company   with   $15.5   
billion   of   worldwide   net   sales   in   2018,   serving   people   around   the   world   with   well-known   brands   that   make   their   
lives   healthier   and   more   enjoyable.     
  
Operations   
Colgate   operates   in   more   than   80   countries,   and   our   products   are   marketed   in   more   than   200   countries   and   
territories.   Approximately   34,500   Colgate   employees   drive   our   success.   Headquartered   in   New   York   City,   
Colgate   operates   through   six   divisions   around   the   world:   North   America,   Latin   America,   Europe,   Asia   Pacific,   
Africa/Eurasia,   and   Hill’s   Pet   Nutrition.   The   Company   has   more   than   50   manufacturing   and   research   facilities   
globally.   The   vast   majority   of   Colgate   products   are   manufactured   in   Colgate-owned   facilities.   Colgate   also   has   
an   extensive   supply   chain   consisting   of   thousands   of   suppliers   of   raw   and   packing   materials,   manufacturing   
operating   supplies,   capital   equipment,   and   other   goods   and   services.   
  
Colgate   Brands   
Colgate   is   a   leading   global   consumer   products   company,   focused   on   Oral   Care,   Personal   Care,   Home   Care,   
and   Pet   Nutrition.   Colgate   manufactures   and   markets   its   products   under   trusted   brands   such   as   Colgate,   
Palmolive,   elmex,   Tom’s   of   Maine,   Sorriso,   Speed   Stick,   Lady   Speed   Stick,   Softsoap,   Irish   Spring,   Protex,   
Sanex,   EltaMD,   PCA   Skin,   Ajax,   Axion,   Fabuloso,   Soupline   and   Suavitel,   as   well   as   Hill’s   Science   Diet,   Hill’s   
Prescription   Diet.   
  
Business   Strength   
We   remain   sharply   focused   on   our   key   priorities—driving   organic   sales   growth,   
maximizing   productivity   across   the   income   statement,   effective   deployment   of   
cash   flow   and   leading   to   win   in   order   to   drive   sustainable,   profitable   growth   
worldwide   over   the   long   term.   
To   read   more,   see   our    annual   report .   
  
15    
Company   Profile   
  
  
Sustainability   is   integrated   into   Colgate’s   business   model   and   aligned   with   our   core   values:   Caring,   Global   
Teamwork   and   Continuous   Improvement.   Our   sustainability   efforts   help   ensure   our   business   grows   
consistently   and   responsibly,   benefits   those   we   serve   and   promotes   the   well-being   of   future   generations.   
  
Colgate   Values   
  
Caring   
We   care   about   Colgate   people,   customers,   consumers,   shareholders   and   business   partners.   Colgate   is   
committed   to   acting   with   compassion,   integrity,   honesty   and   high   ethics   in   all   situations   and   to   listening   with   
respect   to   others,   and   to   valuing   differences.   The   Company   is   also   committed   to   protecting   the   global   
environment,   to   enhancing   the   communities   where   Colgate   people   live   and   work,   and   to   complying   with   
government   laws   and   regulations.   
  
   Global   Teamwork   
All   Colgate   people   are   part   of   a   global   team,   committed   to   working   together   across   countries   and   throughout   
the   world.   Only   by   sharing   ideas,   technologies   and   talents   can   the   Company   achieve   and   sustain   profitable   
growth.   
    
Continuous   Improvement   
Colgate   is   committed   to   improving   every   day.   By   better   understanding   consumers’   and   customers’   
expectations   and   continuously   working   to   innovate   and   improve   products,   services   and   processes,   Colgate   
teams   and   individuals   will   become   the   best   at   what   we   do.   
    
Materiality   Approach   
This   report   reserves   the   term   “materiality”   only   to   address   issues   that   are   deemed   material   from   the   point   of   
view   of   the   U.S.   Securities   and   Exchange   Commission   (SEC).   Topics   that   are   important   from   a   sustainability   
point   of   view   in   relation   to   our   business,   as   defined   in   the   GRI   Guidelines   and   other   reporting   frameworks,   
are   listed   under   the   Key   Sustainability   Issues   section.   
16    
Sustainability   Management     
As   a   publicly   traded   company,   Colgate   files   required   reports   with   the   U.S.   Securities   and   Exchange   
Commission   (SEC).   Our   Annual   Report   on   Form   10-K   highlights   risks   material   to   an   investment   in   the   
Company’s   securities,   including   those   relating   to   sustainability,   namely:   volatility   in   commodity   prices;   
changes   in   regulatory   requirements   relating   to   ingredients   in   our   products;   changes   in   policies   or   practices   of   
retail   trade   partners,   such   as   with   respect   to   the   environment   or   sustainability;   damage   to   our   reputation   
relating   to   environmental   impacts   or   other   sustainability   issues;   disruption   to   our   global   supply   chain   or   key   
office   facilities   by   environmental   events;   disruptions   in   logistics;   damage   from   industrial   accidents   or   other   
occupational   health   and   safety   issues;   losses   caused   by   natural   disasters,   including   climate   events;   and   the   
adverse   impact   of   climate   change.   
Refer   to   Item   1A.   RISK   FACTORS   in   our   Annual   Report   on   Form   10-K   for   the   year   ended   December   31,   
2018   for   the   material   risks   relating   to   an   investment   in   our   securities.   While   not   considered   material   from   an   
SEC   point   of   view,   Colgate   has   identified   a   set   of   key   sustainability   issues   for   the   Company,   taking   into   
account   the   issues   of   interest   to   our   stakeholders.   
  
Key   Issues,   Risks   and   Opportunities   
Colgate   has   categorized   and   prioritized   the   sustainability   issues   with   the   most   potential   to   affect   our   
operations   or   supply   chain,   or   to   create   regulatory   or   reputational   risk.   These   issues   are   reviewed   and   
governed   by   the   Sustainability   Steering   Committee   led   by   the   Company’s   Executive   Vice   President,   Chief   
Growth   and   Strategy   Officer,   who   oversees   sustainability.   In   addition   to   risk,   we   considered   whether   an   issue   
has   potential   to   create   shared   value   for   both   Colgate   and   society.   The   chart   below   summarizes   key   
sustainability   issues:   
Key   Sustainability   Issues   
  
●ORAL   HEALTH     
  
●RESPONSIBLE   SOURCING   AND   
HUMAN   RIGHTS   
    
●  PRODUCT   STEWARDSHIP   
  ●SUSTAINABLE   PACKAGING   
    
●CLIMATE   CHANGE   
  
●  DEFORESTATION   
    
●WATER   STEWARDSHIP   
  
17     
Colgate   is   conducting   an   updated   prioritization   assessment   process   to   identify   our   key   sustainability   issues,   
risks   and   opportunities.   This   process   will   not   only   help   us   devise   our   2025   sustainability   strategy,   but   it   will   also   
help   us   to   gather   feedback   and   data   from   around   the   world   and   to   build   an   effective   monitoring   mechanism   to   
monitor   sustainability-related   matters.   Our   updated   assessment   process   has   three   pillars   that   are   designed   to   
expand   the   scope   and   depth   of   the   information   we   collect   from   our   stakeholders   is:   
1.Conduct   an   Employee   Sustainability   Survey   to   ascertain   our   employees’   interests   and   motivation   
with   respect   to   sustainability,   to   understand   what   employees   think   Colgate   should   focus   on   to   
become   a   more   sustainable   company   and   to   improve   our   communication   around   sustainability   and   
our   achievements   in   this   area;   
2.Hold   discussions   with   subject   matter   experts   to   identify   sustainability-related   risks   and   opportunities   
that   are   relevant   to   their   respective   areas   of   responsibility;   and   
3.Identify   key   topics   that   are   frequently   addressed   by   our   external   stakeholders.   
Based   on   the   Risk   Factors   identified   in   our   Annual   Report   on   Form   10-K,   our   top   sustainability   risks   are   
Product   Stewardship,   Climate   Change   and   Responsible   Sourcing.   
Colgate   is   managing   risks   and   opportunities   related   to   these   issues   through   the   implementation   of   our   2015   
to   2020   Sustainability   Strategy.   Through   our   Enterprise   Risk   Management   process,   we   are   focused   on   the   
environmental   and   social   impact   risk   of   plastic   waste   as   well   as   climate   and   water   scenario   planning.   These   
same   issues   also   provide   an   opportunity   to   drive   innovation   and   growth,   strengthen   brand   reputation   and   
demonstrate   our   commitment   to   responsible   business   practices.   Additional   detail   on   each   of   the   issues   and   
our   actions   to   address   them   is   provided   throughout   the   content   of   the   website.   
Our   key   sustainability   issues   also   intersect   with   the   following   GRI   Standards   important   for   our   internal   and  
external   stakeholders:   Economic   Performance,   Materials,   Energy,   Water,   Emissions,   Effluents   and   Waste,   
Products   and   Services,   Compliance,   Transport,   Occupational   Health   and   Safety,   Training   and   Education,   
Diversity   and   Equal   Opportunity,   Local   Communities,   Public   Policy,   and   Service   Labeling.   
  
Stakeholder   Engagement   
Colgate   strives   to   create   and   maintain   transparent   communication   with   a   wide   variety   of   stakeholders.   Our   
sustainability   commitments   and   goals   are   developed   with   the   input   from   our   stakeholders,   and   we   continue   
to   engage   with   stakeholders   to   inform   our   sustainability   strategy.   As   part   of   our   new   prioritization   
assessment,   we   have   expanded   the   reach   and   methods   of   our   stakeholder   engagement,   improved   our   
feedback   mechanisms   through   an   employee   survey,   introduced   new   internal   engagement   tools,   such   as   
18     
MindSpark   and   LinkedIn-Elevate,   and   encouraged   direct   feedback   from   our   employees.   Additionally,   we  
have   established   a   cross-functional   team   to   continuously   monitor   our   external   stakeholders   in   different   areas   
and   discuss   how   we   can   best   engage   with   them   on   an   ongoing   basis.   Colgate’s   main   stakeholder   groups   
and   examples   of   our   engagement   approach   with   respect   to   sustainability   are   outlined   below.   Read   more   on   
Colgate’s   partnerships    and   details   on   our   engagement.   
STAKEHOLDERS                                               METHOD   OF   ENGAGEMENT   
  
19   Our   employees   Frequent   internal   communication,   employee   engagement   surveys,   digital   engagement   
tools   (MindSpark   &   LinkedIn-Elevate),   geographic   sustainability   teams,   internal   subject   
matter   experts,   quarterly   sustainability   steering   team   reviews   
  
Our   consumers   Integrated   marketing   communications   including   those   addressing   “brand   purpose,”   
ongoing   consumer   dialogue,   consumer   surveys,   social   media   postings   
  
Our   retail   customers   &   
partners   Ongoing   sustainability   network   groups,   sustainability   surveys,   trade   partner   supplier   
expectations   
  
Our   peers   and   suppliers   Peer   benchmarking   annually   via   Consumer   Goods   Forum   (CGF)   membership,   supplier   
engagement   meetings,   assessments   and   disclosure   requests   
  
Our   shareholders   and   
investor   groups   Direct   inquiries   and   feedback   on   an   ongoing   basis,   face-to-face   meetings,   investor   
conferences   
  
Government   and   regulatory   
bodies   Ongoing   monitoring   of   regulatory   activity   relevant   to   Colgate,   face-to-face   meetings   
  
Non-governmental   
associations   Quarterly   direct   inquiries   and   feedback,   face-to-face   meetings,   participation   in   boards,   
advisory   councils   and   partnership   programs,   reporting   and   disclosure   expectations   
Industry   trade   associations   Ongoing   participation   in   sustainability   steering   and   working   groups   
  
Local   communities   and  
community   groups   Direct   inquiries   and   feedback,   face-to-face   meetings   annually   
  
  
Media   Direct   inquiries   and   feedback     
 About   this   Report   
We   recognize   that   transparency   is   important   and   provides   a   window   into   the   Company’s   performance   on   
sustainability.   It   is   important   for   Colgate   to   provide   the   sustainability   information   relevant   to   a   broad   range   of   
stakeholders,   including   consumers,   customers,   investors,   non-governmental   organizations   (NGOs),   and   our   
own   employees.  
Colgate   acknowledges   the   importance   of   data   verification   and   is   obtaining   third-party   assurance   for   our   
primary   environmental   and   social   Key   Performance   Indicators:   percentage   of   products   with   an   improved   
sustainability   profile;   manufacturing   carbon   reduction   per   ton   (of   production);   manufacturing   energy   reduction   
per   ton   (of   production);   manufacturing   water   consumption   per   ton   (of   production);   waste-to-landfill   per   ton   (of   
production);   and   outbound   logistics   carbon   per   ton   (of   goods   shipped);   number   of   hours   worked;   number   of   
lost-time   incidents;   number   of   recordable   incidents   and   number   of   occupational   fatalities.   
In   this   report   and   other   channels,   Colgate   discloses   information   on   our   sustainability   progress   and   responds   
to   several   rating   organizations,   including   CDP   Climate,   CDP   Water,   CDP   Forest   and   CDP   Supply   Chain,   
RobecoSAM   (to   inform   the   Dow   Jones   Sustainability   Index   rankings),   JUST   Capital,   MSCI   and   
Sustainalytics.Colgate’s   sustainability   information   and   the   KPI   table   annexed   also   informs    various   ESG   data   
sources   including   the   Bloomberg   Terminal.   
Unless   otherwise   indicated,   this   report   includes   environmental,   occupational   health   and   safety   data   from   100   
percent   of   Colgate’s   manufacturing   sites   and   technology   centers   around   the   world,   but   does   not   include   data   
from   contract   manufacturers. (1)    Certain   information   relates   to   our   broader   value   chain.   Supplier   Responsible   
Sourcing   Assessment   program   data   includes   selected   contract   manufacturers,   warehouses   and   suppliers;   
our   greenhouse   gas   and   water   footprints   include   additional   data   from   upstream   and   downstream   in   our   value   
chain   and   progress   on   our   Policy   on   No   Deforestation   includes   selected   suppliers.   Financial   information   is   
presented   on   a   consolidated   basis   and   in   U.S.   dollars   (see   Business   Strength).   The   report   provides   data   for   
Colgate’s   fiscal   year   2018   along   with   historical   information   and   more   recent   updates   where   indicated.   We   
issue   our   Sustainability   Report   on   an   annual   basis;   our   previous   report   focused   on   fiscal   year   2017.   
We   began   the   process   of   transitioning   to   the   GRI   Standards.   The   alignment   of   this   year’s   report   to   the   new   
framework   can   be   found   in   our   GRI   Content   Index.   There   are   no   significant   changes   in   the   scope   of   our   
report   or   the   key   sustainability   issues   identified.   We   are   working   towards   being   in   accordance   with   the   Core   
20     
option   and   plan   to   be   fully   aligned   by   the   next   year   by   the   completion   of   our   renewed   prioritization   
assessment.   
  For   inquiries,   please   visit    Colgate’s   Consumer   Affairs    site   at    www.colgatepalmolive.com .   
  
Cautionary   Statement   on   Forward-Looking   Statements   
This   report,   including   our   2015   to   2020   Sustainability   Strategy,   contains   forward-looking   statements   as   that   term   is   
defined   in   the   Private   Securities   Litigation   Reform   Act   of   1995   or   by   the   Securities   and   Exchange   Commission   
(SEC)   in   its   rules,   regulations   and   releases.   These   statements   are   made   on   the   basis   of   Colgate’s   views   and   
assumptions   as   of   this   time,   and   Colgate   undertakes   no   obligation   to   update   these   statements   except   as   required   
by   law.   Colgate   cautions   investors   that   such   forward-looking   statements   are   not   guarantees   of   future   performance   
and   that   actual   events   or   results   may   differ   materially   from   these   statements   due   to   a   number   of   factors.   For   
information   about   factors   that   could   impact   Colgate’s   business   and   cause   actual   results   to   differ   materially   from   
these   forward-looking   statements,   please   refer   to   our   filings   with   the   SEC,   including   the   information   set   forth   
under   the   caption   “Risk   Factors”   in   Colgate’s   Annual   Report   on   Form   10-K   for   the   year   ended   December   31,   
2018.   
  
(1)    Although   Colgate   does   not   include   the   local   operating   results   of   CP   Venezuela   and   CP   Pakistan   in   its   
Consolidated   Financial   Statements,   data   from   these   locations   are   included   in   the   calculations   in   this   report.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
21     
  
Colgate’ s   Governance   Principles   
Colgate’s   Board   believes   that   good   corporate   governance   accompanies   and   greatly   aids   Colgate’s   long-term   
business   success.   Colgate’s   key   strategic   business   priorities   are   growing   sales   through   engaging   with   
consumers,   developing   world-class   innovation   and   working   with   retail   partners;   driving   efficiency   on   every   line   
of   the   income   statement   to   increase   margins;   generating   strong   cash   flow   performance   and   utilizing   that   cash   
effectively   to   enhance   total   shareholder   return;   and   leading   to   win   by   staying   true   to   the   Company’s   culture,   
developing   Colgate   people   and   focusing   on   all   of   its   stakeholders.   Colgate’s   Board   has   been   at   the   center   of   
these   key   strategies,   helping   to   design   and   implement   them,   and   seeing   that   they   guide   the   Company’s   
operations.     
  
The   Board   believes   that   the   Company   has   consistently   been   at   the   forefront   of   good   corporate   governance.   
Reflecting   its   commitment   to   continuous   improvement,   the   Board   reviews   its   governance   practices   on   an   
ongoing   basis   to   ensure   that   they   promote   shareholder   value.   
  
To   learn   more,   visit   the    Governance   section    on   Colgate’s   website.   
  
GOVERNANCE   POLICIES:   
Director   Independence   Standards   
Independent   Board   Candidate   Qualifications   
Board   Guidelines   on   Significant   Corporate   
Governance   Issues   
  
  
GOVERNANCE   PRACTICES:   
Board   Independence,   Expertise   and   
Accountability   
Robust   Director   Stock   Ownership   Guidelines     Established   Policies   Guide   Governance   and   
Business   Integrity     
Board   Focused   on   Key   Business   Priorities   
Diverse   Board   of   Directors   
Direct   Access   to   Management   
Enduring   Management   Accountability   
Board   Practices   Promote   Effective   Oversight   
Continuous   Improvement    Through   Evaluation  
and   Education   
  
  
22    
Governance     
Sustainability   Governance   
Sustainability   Steering   Committee   composed   of   Colgate’s   Executive   Vice   President,   Chief   Growth   and   Strategy   
Officer;   Vice   President,   Global   Sustainability,   EHS   and   Supply   Chain   Strategy;   Chief   Technology   Officer;   Chief   
Human   Resources   Officer;   Vice   President,   Global   Compensation   and   Benefits;   Chief   Marketing   Officer;   Chief   
Communications   Officer;   Chief   Legal   Officer   and   Secretary;   and   Chief   Supply   Chain   Officer   makes   strategic   
decisions   related   to   sustainability   and   guides   the   organization   to   meet   sustainability   goals.   Colgate’s   Vice   
President,   Global   Sustainability,   EHS,   and   Supply   Chain   Strategy,   has   direct   responsibility   for   implementing   
sustainability   and   EHS   programs.   For   our   annual   corporate   social   responsibility   report,   the   Global   Sustainability   
team   gathers   the   content   cross-functionally   and   the   Sustainability   Steering   Committee   reviews   the   final   report   
content.   
Additionally,   networks   of   senior   leaders   in   each   division   and   local   champions   support   on-the-ground   
sustainability   efforts,   communications,   and   reporting.   Global   functions,   such   as   Human   Resources,   Packaging,   
Procurement   and   Technology,   coordinate   certain   aspects   of   the   program   where   global   consistency   is   
appropriate.   Moreover,   to   integrate   sustainability   tracking   and   disclosures   into   our   business   strategy,   operations   
and   employee   review   process,   Colgate’s   global   sustainability   initiatives   have   been   added   to   team   goals   and   
individual   objectives   used   to   determine   the   compensation   for   many   of   Colgate’s   senior   managers.     
Colgate’s   Board   of   Directors   is   kept   informed   of   the   Company’s   progress   via   regular   updates   and   consider   
sustainability   matters,   risks,   and   opportunities   in   decision-making.   Sustainability   is   considered   a   critical   risk   as   
part   of   our   Enterprise   Risk   Management   process.   Additionally,   Colgate’s   Chief   Financial   Officer   provides   the   
Audit   Committee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   with   an   update   on   the   Company’s   Enterprise   Management   Program.   
The   Personnel   and   Organization   Committee   of   the   Board   reviews   the   Company’s   sustainability   and   social   
responsibility   programs   and   other   public   interest   matters,   including   cultural   diversity,   equal   opportunity,   
charitable   giving,   and   international   human   rights.   
Please   visit    Colgate’s   Policy   Statements    for   a   complete   listing.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
23     
Business   Integrity   
Colgate   is   committed   to   doing   business   with   integrity   and   respect   for   all   people   and   for   the   world   around   us.   With   
governance   and   ethics   principles   embedded   into   Company   culture   as   well   as   standards   supporting   the   well-being   
of   all   Colgate   people,   Colgate   ensures   its   business   success   goes   hand-in-hand   with   business   integrity.     
  
CODE   OF   CONDUCT   AND   GLOBAL   BUSINESS   PRACTICES   GUIDELINES   
Since   1987,   our   Code   of   Conduct   has   served   as   a   guide   for   our   daily   business   interactions,   reflecting   our   
corporate   values   and   our   standard   for   ethical   behavior.   Our   Code   of   Conduct   is   available   in   40   different   
languages.   One   hundred   percent   of   salaried   and   clerical   Colgate   people   participate   in   annual   training   and   
certification   on   the   Code   of   Conduct.   Factory   workers   certify   annually   and   complete   training   every   other   year.   Our   
audit   firm,   PricewaterhouseCoopers   LLP,   audits   a   cross-section   of   these   certifications.   Colgate’s   Global   Business   
Practices   Guidelines   provide   further   information   to   our   employees   on   key   topics   in   our   Code   of   Conduct.   The   
Guidelines   offer   clear,   practical   guidance   and   illustrate   how   the   values   and   principles   outlined   in   the   Code   of   
Conduct   apply   to   particular   business   situations.     
  
Refer   to   our    Business   Practices   Guidelines    for   a   full   list   of   topics   addressed.   
  
The   Colgate   EthicsLine   provides   a   means   for   employees   and   external   parties   to   ask   questions,   obtain   guidance   
or   report   any   suspected   violations   of   the   Code   of   Conduct.   We   work   to   create   a   workplace   free   of   inappropriate   
or   unlawful   behavior   in   which   people   are   encouraged   to   share   their   concerns   with   the   Company   without   fear   of   
retaliation.   Consequently,   at   Colgate   no   adverse   action   will   be   taken   against   any   employee,   former   employee,   
agent,   or   third   party   for   complaining   about,   reporting,   participating   in   or   assisting   in   the   investigation   of   a   
suspected   violation   of   the   Company’s   Code   of   Conduct,   Company   policy   or   applicable   law   unless   the   allegation   
made   or   information   provided   is   found   to   be   intentionally   false   or   was   not   made   in   good   faith.     
  
All   reporting   activity   provided   when   Colgate   People   “Speak   Up”   is   reviewed   and,   if   deemed   to   be   a   potential  
violation   of   the   Code   of   Conduct,   the   matter   is   promptly   and   thoroughly   investigated   by   Global   Ethics   &   
Compliance   and/or   the   Global   Legal   Organization.     
  
In   2018,   Ethics   and   Compliance   received   389   contacts   through   a   variety   of   channels   including   the   EthicsLine,   
Ethics   web   tool   and   ethics@colpal.com,   which   covered   a   wide   variety   of   reporting   activities   including   54   
24     
consultations.   Allegations   reported   to   Ethics   and   Compliance,   are   grouped   into   the   following   categories:   
Accounting   related,   Conflict   of   Interest,   Discrimination;   Financial-related;   Harassment;   Regulatory   and   Legal   
Retaliation;   Work   Environment;   Miscellaneous   Issues   (“Other”);   and   non-Ethics   and   Compliance   matters.   After   a   
thorough   investigation   has   been   completed,   if   the   allegations   are   substantiated,   appropriate   remedial   action   is   
taken.     
  
BUSINESS   PRACTICES   GUIDELINES   TOPICS:   
Our   Business   Practices   Guidelines   illustrate   how   the   values   and   principles   outlined   in   the   Colgate-Palmolive   
Code   of   Conduct   apply   to   particular   business   situations.   Our   guidelines   detail   not   only   Colgate-Palmolive   policies   
but   also   our   Company’s   compliance   with   specific   laws,   regulations   and   practices.   Some   topics   addressed   by   our   
Business   Practices   Guidelines   include:   
  
No   Political   Contributions   
Colgate   has   a   long-standing   policy   against   making   contributions   to   political   parties   or   candidates,   which   is   set   
forth   in   our   Code   of   Conduct   and   Global   Business   Practices   Guidelines.   These   policies   prohibit   Company   
contributions   to   any   political   party   or   candidate   whether   federal,   state,   or   local.   We   also   prohibit   U.S.   trade   
associations   from   using   any   portion   of   Colgate   dues   for   political   contributions,   and   we   conduct   an   annual   
reminder   and   certification   process   to   ensure   trade   association   awareness   and   compliance.   
  
Communication   
Communicating   an   ethical   message   is   a   critical   part   of   Colgate’s   Maintaining   the   Highest   Ethical   Standards   
program.   It   is   imperative   that   all   employees   are   fully   aware   of   the   ethical   policies.   Colgate’s   branded   message,   
“Learn,   Act,   Speak   Up”   is   communicated   continually   including   on   the   Ethics   and   Compliance   website,   app,   
posters,   wallet   cards,   and   local   engagement   presentations   worldwide.   Repeating   the   message   utilizing   various   
formats   is   important   to   gain   employee   awareness   and   comprehension.   
  
Anti-Bribery   
Colgate   has   a   strict   policy   prohibiting   bribery   of   governmental   officials   and   private   commercial   parties   anywhere   
we   do   business.   This   policy   is   outlined   in   the   Code   of   Conduct   and   Global   Business   Practices   Guidelines.   
Colgate   also   mandates   that   the   third   parties   with   whom   we   work   comply   with   our   anti-bribery   policy,   which   is   
included   in   our   Third   Party   Code   of   Conduct   and   further   communicated   to   third   parties   through   our   global   due   
25     
diligence   process.   This   process   utilizes   a   third-party   tool   to   review   and   evaluate   all   priority   third   parties   that   
interact   with   governmental   officials.   It   also   requires   the   third-party   to   train   employees   on   this   topic.  
  
Privacy   and   Data   Protection   
Colgate   respects   the   privacy   of   its   employees,   consumers,   customers,   suppliers,   and   other   third   parties   with   
whom   we   have   a   business   relationship,   and   therefore,   we   handle   personal   data   responsibly   and   in   accordance   
with   all   applicable   data   privacy   and   data   protection   laws.   Read   more   on   our    Privacy   Policy .   
  
Training   
Colgate’s   compliance   training   uses   a   mixture   of   classroom   and   online   training   and   covers   numerous   priority   
ethical   topics.   including   anti-bribery,   competition   law,   privacy   and   trade   compliance   as   well   as   the   Code   of   
Conduct   certification   referenced   above.   The   Code   training   includes   up   to   six   topic   areas   every   year,   and   the   
scenarios   are   updated   on   an   annual   basis.   Many   of   these   courses   have   run   continuously   for   more   than   eight  
years.   Every   year,   100   percent   of   salaried   and   clerical   employees   complete   the   Code   of   Conduct   training   and   
every   other   year   all   employees   complete   the   course.   Training   is   mandatory   and   is   linked   to   compensation   for   
certain   employee   populations.   
  
  
For   more   information   on   all   of   the   above,   visit    Colgate’s   Ethics   &   Compliance   Guidelines.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
26     
  
Supporting   Colgate   People   is   the   most   important   driver   of   our   business   success.    As   such,   Colgate   is   committed   
to   helping   our   people   reach   their   professional   and   personal   goals,   offering   an   array   of   resources   to   help   expand   
their   professional   and   personal   horizons:   from   providing   career   opportunities,   access   to   world-class   learning   and   
leadership   development   programs,   wellness   initiatives,   and   opportunities   to   contribute   to   the   communities   where   
we   work   and   live.   Through   these   programs,   Colgate   helps   employees   stay   engaged,   rewarded,   and   focused   on   
delivering   products   and   services   that   exceed   our   consumers’   expectations.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
We   support   all   Colgate   employees   to   perform   at   their   fullest   potential   and   recognize   the   important   role   
organizational   diversity   and   inclusion   plays   in   our   global   success.   We   work   to   attract   and   retain   talented   
individuals   who   lead   with   integrity.   We   align   the   work   of   our   people   to   our   global   strategy   through   individual   and   
team   goals.   Our   Performance   Management   process   fosters   coaching   and   feedback   and   ensures   that   people   
are   focused   on   the   right   priorities   to   drive   growth.   Our   strong   learning   curriculum   reaches   all   functions   
worldwide,   with   3,000   certified   Colgate   instructors   and   more   than   300   courses   relating   to   functional   areas   of   
expertise,   ethics   and   compliance,   and   leadership.   We   continue   to   support   our   internal   coaching   initiatives   to   
help   build   a   coaching   culture   where   people   feel   comfortable   teaching   others   and   learning   through   honest   
development   conversations.   
27    Our   People     
Learn   about   the   progress   we’ve   made   on   our   2020   Sustainability   People   Commitments   in   
2018.     
Supporting   Colgate   People   
Our   Approach   
  
PROMOTING   COLGA TE   AS   THE   EMPLOYER   OF   CHOICE     
We   are   constantly   finding   new   and   innovative   ways   to   communicate   our   employer   brand   to   strengthen   our   talent   
attraction   efforts   and   to   share   our   value   proposition   with   the   global   talent   pool.   Communicating   a   consistent,   
global   message   about   who   we   are   as   an   employer   helps   us   to   attract   potential   candidates   that   share   our   values   
and   vision.   It   also   helps   our   current   employees   feel   proud   about   where   they   work,   ultimately   improving   workplace   
fulfillment   and   productivity.   
DIVERSE   EXPERIENCES   
We   are   truly   global.   Our   diverse   perspectives,   work   experiences   and   cultures   make   us   strong.   We   work   with   our   
global   colleagues   across   borders,   boundaries   and   functions   to   learn,   grow,   and   win   together.   
  
COLLABORA TION   
We   work   together   globally,   to   perform   at   our   best   locally,   always   with   unwavering   integrity.   Colgate   People   
welcome   each   day   as   an   opportunity   to   improve   on   the   last   by   building   trust   with   one   another   and   sharing   new   
ideas.   
  
AUTHENTICITY   
Our   work   environments   encourage   everyone   to   participate   and   be   their   authentic   selves.   Our   caring   culture   fuels   
a   passionate   workplace   that   drives   innovation   and   our   enduring   success.   
WHO   WE   ARE   
•   TRULY   GLOBAL   
•   FORWARD   THINKING   
•   TEAM   PLAYERS   
•   CARING   
•   CONSUMER   FOCUSED   •   COLLABORATIVE   
•   PURPOSE-DRIVEN   
•   TRUSTWORTHY   
•   DIVERSE   
  
Our   social   media   framework   strengthens   Colgate’s   employer   branding   and   digital   presence,   resulting   in   the   
increase   of   our   talent   community   and   a   healthy   candidate   pipeline.   Nearly   7,000   people   visit   our   job   portal   every   
month   and   an   increasing   number   engage   with   us   on   social   platforms   like   LinkedIn,   Glassdoor,   and   Facebook.   
  
As   a   truly   global   company,   our   diverse   backgrounds   enable   us   to   respond   to   the   needs   and   aspirations   of   the   
billions   we   serve   worldwide.   We   strive   to   ensure   that   we   maintain   a   focus   on   diversity   and   minority   recruitment   to   
reflect   internally   the   communities   in   which   we   live   and   work.   By   doing   so,   innovation   is   driven   through   a   diverse   
set   of   ideas,   approaches   and   backgrounds   and   through   engaging   with   various   affinity   groups   and   diversity   
organizations.     
28   Building   a   Future   to   Smile   About     
In   2018,   we   continued   our   focus   on   building   a   coaching   culture   by   partnering   with   BetterUp,   a   leading   provider   
of   online   coaching.   BetterUp   Coaching   provides   Colgate   leaders   with   the   opportunity   to   receive   personalized   
support   that   helps   broaden   and   deepen   the   skills   for   success   and   accelerate   individual   effectiveness   and   
development.   
In   2018,   one   of   our   goals   was   to   improve   the   quality   of   decisions   for   better   performance   and   greater   diversity   
and   inclusion   company-wide.   To   help   Colgate   People   make   more   informed,   effective   and   confident   decisions   
about   people   and   business,   we   launched   the   “DECIDE:   The   Neuroscience   of   Breaking   Bias,”   program.   
Launched   to   an   initial   group   of   400   global   participants,   this   digital   learning   solution   consisted   of   three   hours   of   
content   that   was   delivered   over   a   span   of   30   days   through   videos,   research   summaries,   practice   tools,   and   
interactive   webinars.   Feedback   from   the   pilot   program   was   very   positive,   with   90   percent   of   learners   stating   that   
they   are   using   the   strategies   learned   to   mitigate   biases.   An   additional   1,300   managers   will   complete   the   
“DECIDE”   program   in   early   2019.   We   are   committed   to   having   all   Colgate   People   managers   participate   in   this   
impactful   program.   
In   2018,   we   continue   to   transform   our   learning   strategy   to   better   meet   the   evolving   expectations   of   the   modern   
workforce   and   create   a   continuous   learning   culture.   Our   focus   is   to   develop   the   strategic   organizational   
capabilities   that   will   drive   current   and   future   growth   for   Colgate   by   offering   learning   experiences   that   are   closely   
aligned   to   our   business   strategy.   A   continuous   learning   culture   at   Colgate   is   where   Colgate   People   learn   in   the   
flow   of   work.   It   is   not   episodic   nor   programmatic;   it   is   where   Colgate   People   learn   through   being   curious,   
through   the   coaching   of   their   leaders,   from   reverse   mentoring   programs   and   through   collaborating   and   sharing   
with   each   other.   It   is   where   Colgate   People   learn   through   experimentation,   from   structured   learning   experiences   
that   are   delivered   in   blended   and   modern   ways.   It   is   where   Colgate   People   learn   through   external   partnerships   
and   through   the   various   roles   and   experiences   they   have   throughout   their   diverse   careers.   
In   April   2018,   we   also   launched   a   new   learner   experience   platform,   MindSpark,   a   portal   through   which   Colgate   
People   have   access   to   more   than   65,000   multi/media   blended   learning   assets,   a   combination   of   structured,   
mandatory,   functional   and   curated   content.   MindSpark   can   be   accessed   via   desktop,   laptop,   and   both   IOS   and   
Android   mobile   platforms.   MindSpark   continues   to   provide   a   continuous   learning   platform   for   Colgate   People.   In   
29   Building   a   Coaching   Culture  
Creating   a   Continuous   Learning   Environment     
less   than   a   year   from   the   launch,   the   engagement   has   been   above   industry   standard   with   15,668   registered   
users   (+98%   of   S&C   employee   base)   and   an   average   monthly   usage   of   64%.   There   have   been   in   excess   of   
407,000   content   views,   and   more   than   197,000   total   content   completions,   building   a   future   that   Colgate   People   
can   smile   about.   
Engaging   Employees   
In   2016,   we   launched   “Colgate   Connect,”   a   global   survey   to   assess   key   drivers   of   employee   engagement   at  
Colgate.   We   partnered   with   an   industry-leadin g   vendor   to   develop   the   survey   that   allowed   us   to   deliver   a   simple   
tool   with   robust   reporting   and   analytics   capabilities.   In   2018,   we   achieved   a   81   percent   completion   rate   and   
have   a   better   understanding   of   our   strengths   and   opportunity   areas   both   at   the   corporate   level   and   at   the   
managerial   department   level.   Findings   have   been   communicated   to   managers   who   are   developing   continuous   
improvement   plans   with   their   teams.   
Supporting   our   global   Colgate   employees   includes   a   serious   commitment   to   health   and   wellness.   By   creating   a   
healthy   work   environment   and   encouraging   Colgate   People   to   develop   healthy   habits,   we   are   helping   our   
employees   live   longer,   more   fulfilling   lives.   
Our   Approach   
We   promote   physical,   emotional,   and   financial   wellness   for   Colgate   People   and   their   families.   Just   as   we   create   
products   that   build   brighter   futures   for   everyone,   our   goal   is   to   help   our   people   live   better   every   day   by   providing   
support   and   resources   to   help   them   make   healthy   choices   at   work   and   at   home   to   live   a   more   balanced,   thriving   
life.   
  
  
  
  
30   Employee   Health   and   Wellness   
  
Key   elements   of   our   Employee   Health   and   Wellness   Strategy   include:  
Prevention   Awareness   
•   Offer   our   employees   the   opportunity   to   participate   in   our   Health   Risk   Assessment.   
  
•   Ensure   Colgate   People   and   their   families   have   access   to   preventive   immunizations   and   dental   care.   
  
•   Provide   confidential   HIV-AIDs   testing   and   awareness   education.   
  
Healthy   Lifestyles   
•   Provide   Colgate   People   with   comprehensive,   market-competitive   benefits   in   each   country.   
•   Support   development   of   healthy   habits   relating   to   physical   activity   and   nutrition.   
•   Encourage   smoking   cessation.   
  
Organizational   Support   
•   Create   a   culture   that   values   employee   engagement,   work-life   balance   and   community   outreach.   
•   Remain   committed   to   a   safe   and   healthy   work   environment   with   a   goal   of   zero   workplace   accidents.   
  
Resilience   &   Stress   
•   Offer   a   range   of   programs   based   upon   regional   availability   and   interest,   including   yoga,   access   to   gyms,   stress   
management   programs   and   access   to   counseling   services   through   Employee   Assistance   Program,   Colgate   
medical   or   government-   sponsored   programs.   
•   Elevate   employee   financial   awareness   planning.   
31     
  
  
Prevention   &   Awareness   
Health   Risk   Assessment   
The   Health   Risk   Assessment   (HRA)   is   a   powerful   online   tool   that   includes   questions   on   biometric   measures   
such   as   blood   pressure   and   cholesterol   to   help   employees   self-evaluate   their   health   status,   understand   health   
risks,   and   provide   confidential   feedback   to   motivate   behavior   change   and   improve   health   outcomes.   Colgate   
aggregates   this   data   anonymously   to   focus   our   Live   Better   programs   on   the   highest   risk   factors   for   Colgate   
People.   The   HRA   is   currently   available   in   over   50   countries.   
Colgate   remains   committed   to   helping   employees,   their   loved   ones,   and   our   communities   combat   HIV/   AIDS.   
Colgate’s   commitment   in   the   fight   against   HIV/AIDS   is   based   on   our   values   and   our   sustainability   commitments   
to    “Promote   Healthier   Lives”    and    “Contribute   to   the   Communities   Where   We   Live   and   Work.”   
32     
•   Colgate-Palmolive   South   Africa   holds   an   annual   AIDS   Week   in   early   December   to   ensure   continued   
awareness   of   HIV/AIDS,   reduce   stigma   against   HIV/AIDS   patients,   and   provide   testing.   The   theme   this   year   
was   “Cheka   Impilo,   Know   Your   Status.”   The   subsidiary   conducted   events   such   as   a   candle-lighting   
commemoration   and   a   “Family   Day”   with   employees   and   their   families   to   increase   awareness   and   
encourage   employees   to   find   out   their   own   and   their   loved   ones’   HIV   status.   
•   Under   the   “Positive   Step”   program   in   India,   Colgate   sponsors   children   infected   or   affected   by   HIV/AIDS   by   
providing   nutrition   and   education   and   paying   their   school   fees.   This   year,   Colgate   India   hosted   90   children   
for   lunch,   play   and   to   share   a   memorable   day   together.   This   program   is   one   of   Colgate’s   initiatives   to   
address   inequalities.   This   initiative   has   a   positive   impact   on   the   health,   well-being   and   educational   
advancement   for   these   children.   Colgate   employees   volunteer   to   mentor   some   of   these   children   pursuing   
higher   education.   Colgate   People   in   India   across   Colgate   plants   and   branch   offices   also   wore   red   ribbons   to   
show   their   solidarity   with   the   cause.   
  
Healthy   Lifestyles   
Global   Healthy   Activity   Challenge   
Our   annual   Live   Better   Global   Healthy   Activity   Challenge   encourages   all   Colgate   employees   to   track   and   log   at   
least   500   minutes   of   healthy   activity   for   one   month.   Colgate   People   engage   colleagues,   family,   and   friends   to   
get   active   and   earn   minutes   through   a   range   of   activities.   
In   June   2018,   Colgate   People   from   more   than   90   countries   participated   in   a   variety   of   healthy   activities   ranging   
from   yoga   classes   and   soccer   tournaments   to   nature   walks,   logging   a   total   of   more   than   26   million   minutes   of   
healthy   activity.   
Nutrition   
Colgate   locations   also   include   nutrition   education   and   resources   in   their   Live   Better   programs   with   events,   such   
as   healthy   cooking   demonstrations,   nutrition   workshops,   healthy   option   educational   sessions,   and   serving   
healthy   breakfasts   and   lunches.   A   nutrition   toolkit   is   also   available   to   Colgate   employees   on   the   Company’s   
intranet   site.   
We   also   partner   with   our   food   service   vendors   to   increase   the   number   of   healthy   options   in   employee   
cafeterias.   Sites   from   all   over   the   world   are   implementing   local   programs   to   encourage   healthy   nutrition   at   work,   
including   healthy   cooking   demonstrations,   healthy   meal   carts   or   days,   and   the   labeling   of   healthy   foods.   Our   
33     
Cambridge,   Ohio   plant   introduced   healthy   snacks   and   changes   to   pricing   in   their   vending   machines   in   an   effort   
to   encourage   employees   to   eat   healthier.   
Smoking   Cessation   
Smoking   cessation   continues   to   be   an   important   aspect   of   Live   Better   at   Colgate.   Our   culture   of   Caring   
supports   good   health   and   encourages   our   people   to   quit   tobacco   use.   In   our   effort   to   move   toward   
smoke-free   campuses,   we   have   begun   offering   smoking   cessation   programs.   
Organizational   Support   
We   are   committed   to   creating   a   culture   of   health   and   wellness   through   programs   such   as   our   benefit   packages   
and   employee   reward   and   recognition   programs,   which   help   measure   progress   and   encourage   engagement.   
Benefits   
Recognizing   that   the   success   of   our   company   is   driven   by   our   talented   and   dedicated   employees,   we   offer   
market-competitive   benefit   programs.   
While   specific   program   offerings   for   eligible   employees   vary   by   country   according   to   local   regulations   and   
practice,   typically   benefit   programs   include:   
  
•   retirement   savings   
•   healthcare   and   wellness   plans   
•   working   from   home   arrangements   
•   tuition   benefits   
•   flexible   work   arrangements   •   adoption   benefits   
•   subsidized   back   up   child   care   
•   financial   seminars   &   employee   networking   group   
•   maternity   and   paternity   leave   
•   recognition   programs   
  
Financial   Well-Being   
Colgate   supports   employees’   financial   security   goals   at   every   stage   of   their   working   lives,   not   just   retirement.   To   
support   employees,   Colgate   developed   a   financial   wellness   toolkit,   available   in   seven   languages.   The   toolkit   
focuses   on   three   areas:   creating   wealth,   managing   wealth,   and   enjoying   wealth.   Our   financial   education   
program   aims   to   help   Colgate   People   learn   to   live   within   a   budget,   fund   their   children’s   education,   finance   their   
homes,   and   manage   their   debt.   We   also   continue   to   offer   comprehensive   education   to   both   our   salaried   and   
non-salaried   personnel   in   the   U.S.,   including   classroom   training,   webinar   programming   and   personal   financial   
counseling   sessions   via   a   third-party   provider.   We   also   offer   additional   programs   to   meet   the   needs   of   
employees   and   their   families   where   they   live.   
34     
Colgate   has   a   long-standing   commitment   to   respecting   human   and   labor   rights   worldwide   and   supports   the   
United   Nations   Universal   Declaration   of   Human   Rights   and   the   International   Labor   Organization   (ILO)   Core   
Labor   Standards.   Colgate   works   with   and   seeks   out   business   partners   who   share   our   commitment   to   
universal   human   rights.   We   recognize   the   responsibility   of   businesses   to   respect   labor   rights   and   engage   
with   stakeholders   adherence   to   universal   human   rights.   Protecting   human   and   labor   rights   is   one   of   our   
key   sustainability   issues.   
To   learn   more   about   our   human   rights   strategy   and   management   approach,   please   see   our    Human   Rights   
Policy .   
Colgate   is   committed   to   pay   equity   and   its   role   in   fostering   a   diverse   and   inclusive   workplace.   It   is   our   
policy   to   select,   place,   and   pay   all   Colgate   People   on   the   basis   of   qualification   for   the   work   performed,   
without   discrimination.   Consistent   with   these   values,   Colgate   has   committed   to   conducting   an   annual   
company-wide   gender   pay   analysis   across   occupations   in   the   United   States,   along   with   other   steps   to   
promote   equal   pay   and   fairness.   This   annual   pay   analysis   covers   race   and   ethnicity   in   addition   to   gender ,   
in   accordance   with   Colgate’ s   policy ,   to   compensate   each   individual   at   a   level   commensurate   with   his   or   her   
role,   work   location,   individual   performance,   and   experience   irrespective   of   gender ,   race,   ethnicity ,   or   any   
other   category   protected   by   law.   Colgate   also   complies   with   all   applicable   laws   and   regulations   related   to   
fair   pay   practices.   
Workplace   Diversity   
Colgate-Palmolive   People   --   approximately   34,500   strong   --   reflect   the   diverse   richness   of   the   cultures   we   serve   
around   the   world.   As   a   company,   we   celebrate   differences,   promote   an   inclusive   environment   and   value   the   
contributions   of   all   Colgate   People.   Our   business   strategy   of   driving   and   funding   growth   and   becoming   the   best   
place   to   work   depends   on   the   fullest   contributions   of   all   employees,   wherever   they   are.   Colgate   is   committed   to   
35   Our   Commitment   to   Universal   Human   Rights   
Equal   Pay   
Diversity   &   Inclusion     
providing   inclusive   employment,   training,   compensation,   promotion   opportunities,   and   all   other   terms   and   
conditions   of   employment.   
We   believe   that   our   culture   and   values   afford   opportunities   for   everyone   to   have   an   impact   on   our   business   
success.   All   employees   worldwide   are   provided   with   a   series   of   training   programs   focused   on   building   
leadership   skills.   Valuing   Colgate   People,   Managing   With   Respect,   and   Leading   in   a   Diverse   Workplace   are   a   
few   examples   of   our   training   programs.   Leading   in   a   Diverse   Workplace   delivers   on   the   company’s   commitment   
to   creating   and   sustaining   a   diverse   workplace.   
A   critical   piece   of   our   diversity   strategy   is   to   ensure   that   our   talent   management   process   incorporates   the   
professional   development   of   women   and   people   of   color.   Colgate   also   partners   with   organizations   such   as   
Catalyst,   the   Conference   Board,   Diversity   Best   Practices,   and   the   National   Association   for   Female   Executives,   
Working   Mother   Media,   DiversityInc.,   the   American   Association   for   People   with   Disabilities,   Human   Rights   
Campaign,   Live   Out   Loud   (LGBTQ+   youth),   American   Corporate   Partners   (veteran   mentorships),   Latina   Style   
magazine   and   the   Asian   American   Business   Development   Center   to   develop   an   effective   and   supportive   work   
environment.   
In   2018,   Colgate   piloted   the   Advancing   Critical   Capabilities   Empowers   Leaders   (ACCEL)   program,   designed   to   
provide   participants   with   a   greater   understanding   of:   
•   Growing   personal   skills   to   further   enable   technical   mastery.   
•   Building   strong   bonds   with   others   to   help   achieve   organizational   goals.   
•   Identifying   new   ways   to   perform   roles   to   achieve   improved   business   results.   
•   Accelerating   leadership   development   to   support   future   organizational   growth.   
•   Improving   capabilities   to   be   more   globally   competitive   and   influential.   
To   help   foster   an   atmosphere   of   inclusiveness,   Colgate   supports   employee   resource   groups   made   up   of   team   
members   representing   many   different   perspectives,   backgrounds,   and   ways   of   life.   Each   of   these   resource   
groups   contribute   to   Colgate’s   inclusive   work   environment   by   developing   and   implementing   activities   and   
programs   to   promote   business   and   community   involvement   as   well   as   cultural   awareness.   
A   selection   of   Colgate   national   resource   groups   includes:   
  
•   Asian   Action   Network   
•   Colgate   Parents   Network.   •   Black   Leadership   Network   
•   Colgate   Women’s   Network   
36     
•   Colgate   Abilities   Network   
•   Colgate   LGBT   and   Allies   Network   •   Colgate   JumpStart   
•   Hispanic   Action   Network   
  
In   addition,   Colgate's   Diversity   Leadership   Council,   consisting   of   employee   resource   group   leaders,   is   
committed   to   nurturing   programming   aimed   at   diversity   and   inclusion   to   ensure   optimal   efficiency,   effectiveness   
and   support   of   the   Company’s   business   objectives.   Each   leadership   council   consists   of   mid-senior   level   
cross-functional   management   teams   appointed   by   the   division/function   leader.   The   councils   operate   under   
established   charters   with   a   mission   and   set   of   operating   and   decision-making   standards.   They   are   helping   drive   
a   culture   of   diversity   and   inclusion   by:  
•   Providing   regional   and   functional   leadership   with   a   framework   to   establish   more   effective/efficient   talent   
management   and   inclusive   leadership   practices.   
•   Establishing   clear   diversity   objectives   and   accountability.   
•   Driving   a   more   focused   approach   to   managing   high-potential,   high-performance   career   enhancement   and  
upward   mobility   of   women   and   diverse   talent.   
•   Encouraging   people   to   lead,   utilizing   their   diverse   backgrounds,   leadership   competencies   and   varying   
perspectives.   
•   Creating   opportunities   for   cross-functional   and   cross-generational   work   teams   and   interactions.   
•   Driving   strategies   and   initiatives   to   support   en   route   to   a   truly   inclusive   world-class   workforce   at   all   levels.   
2018   HIGHLIGHTS:   
•   Colgate   Abilities   Network   (CAN)   has   an   advisory   council   
consisting   of   Senior   Executives.   Our   Chief   Technology   Officer   led   
a   panel   discussion   on   how   we   can   support   people   with   disabilities;   
explore   business   opportunities   connected   with   this   community,   
and   raise   awareness   among   Colgate   People.   CAN   strives   to   
ensure   Colgate’s   business   goals   are   connected   to   the   global   
disability   market,   and   serves   as   a   valued   resource   to   our   Colgate   
colleagues   around   the   world.   Colgate   Abilities   Network   launched   a   
National   Disability   Employee   Awareness   Month   campaign   
37   
  
highlighting   the   strengths   of   Colgate   People.    'At   Colgate,   we   celebrate   our   unique   differences,   because   we   
know   they   make   us   stronger.'   
•    Colgate   continues   its   commitment   to   American   Corporate   Partners   (ACP),   a   national   non-profit   
organization   dedicated   to   helping   post-9/11   veterans   successfully   transition   back   into   the   private   sector.   
Since   2014,   more   than   100   Colgate   employees   have   volunteered   with   ACP   to   help   returning   veterans   
through   one-on-one   mentoring,   networking,   and   online   career   advice.   
•   Colgate   continues   its   partnership   with   Magnusmode,   the   company   behind   MAGNUSCARDS™,   an   
innovative   mobile   app   that   empowers   people   living   with   cognitive   special   needs   to   independently   manage   
daily   skills   like   tooth   brushing.   Closely   developed   with   oral   health   experts   at   Colgate,   easy-to-understand   
digital   card   decks   provide   step-by-step   guidance   around   brushing,   brushing   with   braces,   rinsing,   flossing,   
and   visiting   the   dental   office.   Colgate’s   caring   values   extend   to   empower   people   with   special   needs   to   
manage   their   daily   oral   care   activities,   and   ultimately,   to   build   a   future   they   can   smile   about.   
•   In   2018,   Colgate   rolled   out   our   Managing   Unconscious   Bias   training,   offered   in   six   languages.   All   5,500   
people   managers   participated   and   will   be   responsible   for   cascading   the   learning   to   their   teams.   This   training   
education   and   awareness   program   is   of   critical   importance   as   unconscious   bias   can   lead   to   systemic   
discrimination.   
•   Colgate   is   committed   to   educating   employees   about   the   dangers   of   drug   overdose.   In   2018,   Colgate   
launched   Opioid   Awareness   seminars   and   webinars   to   ensure   Colgate   People   were   informed   on   this   topic.  
Employees   were   provided   with   the   company   policy   on   alcohol   and   substance   abuse   and   information   on   our   
employee   assistance   program.   
•   Our   Colgate   Technology   Campus   in   Piscataway,   New   Jersey,   opened   a   brand   new   on-site   child   care   
facility,   the   ‘Little   Smiles   Early   Learning   Center.’   Little   Smiles,   a   state   of   the   art   facility,   provides   services   to   
children   ages   six   weeks   through   five   years.   While   this   center   will   benefit   all   employees,   Colgate   is   
committed   to   recruiting   and   supporting   the   women   in   its   workforce,   especially   after   they   return   from   
maternity   leave,   by   providing   high   quality   child   care.   In   keeping   with   Colgate’s   focus   on   sustainability,   this   
center   is   a   LEED   Certified   building.   Nestled   amongst   our   peaceful,   tree   lined   setting,   the   center   boasts   
playgrounds,   a   nature   path,   a   dedicated   STEM   learning   lab,   and   an   innovative   curriculum   designed   to   meet   
children   where   they   are   developmentally,   with   signature   practices   that   build   confidence   and   excitement   
about   learning   at   every   age   and   stage.   
38     
Established   in   1998,   our   Supplier   Diversity   program   is   embedded   in   our   U.S.-   based   organization   with   clear   
goals   to   drive   growth.   We   drive   performance   through   our   quarterly   Supplier   Diversity   Forums,   and   we   
collaborate   with   our   suppliers   to   support   our   goals.   Our   procurement   teams   are   encouraged   to   seek   suppliers   
that   add   value   and   innovation   while   also   delivering   cost   savings.   
  Approach   
We   maintain   accountability   by   incorporating   high   standards   and   objectives   for   Supplier   Diversity   for   
procurement   buyers   and   managers.   Our   competitive   proposal   processes   include   fostering   a   continuously   
diverse   network   of   suppliers.   Suppliers   interested   in   doing   business   with   us   may   register   and   upload   their   
current   certification   documents   to   our   supplier   diversity   database.   As   part   of   the   registration   process,   the   
supplier   provides   content   including   basic   company   information,   capabilities,   and   certification   documents.   The   
database   is   a   highly   efficient   way   for   suppliers   to   share   their   capabilities   and   learn   about   business   
opportunities.   We   also   collaborate   with   our   internal   stakeholders   to   identify   needs   and   research   diverse   
suppliers   with   relevant   capabilities.   
We   recognize   our   diverse   suppliers   for   the   value-added   solutions,   cost   savings,   and   continuous   improvement   
they   have   provided   to   Colgate   over   the   years.   We   have   recognized   some   of   our   suppliers   as    well   for   their   
participation   and   contributions   in   support   of   supplier   diversity   by   using   and   mentoring   diverse   businesses   for   
success.   
Progress   
We   have   made   progress   toward   these   goals   in   2018:   
•   To   support   our   supplier   diversity   goals,   our   teams   have   set   objectives   such   as   inclusion   of   diversity   spend   
requirements   in   contracts   with   first-tier   suppliers,   maximizing   second-tier   spend   opportunities   and   execution   
of   targeted   supplier   day   forums   to   engage   and   build   relationships.   In   2018,   Colgate   spent   5.5   percent   of   our   
total   U.S.   procurement   spend   of   $3   billion   with   diverse   suppliers.   
  
We   have   delivered   growth   with   our   supplier   partners,   including:   
•   We   have   increased   our   spend   with   partner   Adhesive   System,   Inc.   by   12   percent,   through   product   and   
geographic   expansion,   while   delivering   savings   and   improved   quality   and   delivery.   
39   Supplier   Diversity     
•   We   increased   our   spend   with   partner   U.S.   Chemicals   by   35   percent   across   a   portfolio   of   materials   in   
eight   categories   over   the   last   two   years,   helping   the   supplier   grow   and   expand   in   spend   and   material   
coverage.   
Supplier   Diversity   Recognition   
Colgate   has   been   recognized   and   awarded   for   various   contributions   in   supplier   diversity .   The   following   
recognitions   were   received   in   2018:   
•   Top   50   Corporations   for   Diversity   by   Diversityinc.com   
•   Women’ s   President   Education   Organization   Recognized   for   Commitment   to   the   Success   of   Women   
Business   Enterprises   
•   NY/NJ   Minority   Supplier   Development   Appreciation   Award   for   Outstanding   Contribution   and   
Commitment   
The   health   and   safety   of   our   employees   and   the   communities   in   which   we   operate   is   paramount   in   all   we   do;   
our   goal   is   zero   incidents.   Colgate   People   around   the   world   are   committed   to   being   “Colgate   Careful”   (having   
safety   standards   in   place   that   meet   or   exceed   the   local   safety   regulations)   by   maintaining   a   robust   safety   
culture   and   healthy   and   safe   working   conditions.   
Colgate’s   global   occupational   health   and   safety   program   is   grounded   in   our   Environmental,   Occupational  
Health   and   Safety   (EOHS)   Standards.   Although   we   do   not   participate   in   the   OHSAS   18001   certification   system,   
our   management   system   and   technical   standards   expectations   are   well   aligned   with   that   system.   
Colgate   sites   are   expected   to   self-assess   conformance   with   our   standards   and   local   regulations   at   18-month   
intervals.   Corporate   audits   are   conducted   every   three   to   five   years,   closure   progress   is   reported   quarterly   and   
verification   audits   are   conducted   to   provide   closure   assurance.   Third-party   industrial   hygiene   firms   also   review   
our   operations   annually   to   ensure   occupational   health   exposures   are   well   controlled.   Any   identified   exposures   
are   managed   using   the   hierarchy   of   controls.   Closure   of   previously   identified   exposures   is   verified   by   the   
third-party   industrial   hygiene   provider.   
We   also   provide   numerous   safety   training   programs   as   an   important   part   of   our   safety   management   strategy.   
We   offer   150   e-learning   courses,   which   are   available   in   as   many   as   eight   languages.   Courses   cover   a   range   of   
topics,   such   as   EOHS   incident   management,   hearing   conservation,   ergonomics   in   the   workplace,   confined   
40   Occupational   Health   and   Safety       
space   entry,   fire   safety   emergency,   safe   work   practices   and   industrial   hygiene.   We   also   conduct   evacuation   
drills   across   our   sites   to   ensure   we   are   prepared   in   the   event   of   unforeseen   circumstances.   
  Our   2018   safety   results   showed   improved   performance   in   both   our   total   recordable   rate   (TRR)   and   lost   
workday   case   rate   (LWCR).   Our   total   recordable   rate   (TRR)   was   0.22,   down   from   0.28   in   2017.   This   represents   
the   lowest   number   of   recordable   accidents   reported   in   one   calendar   year   in   the   history   of   Colgate.   Our   lost   
workday   case   rate   (LWCR)   was   0.06,   which   was   a   slight   reduction   versus   2017.   In   2018,   we   experienced   18   
accidents   –   ranging   from   fractures   to   hospitalizations   –   which   Colgate   considered   “serious”   according   to   
Colgate’s   Accident/Incident   Reporting   and   Recordkeeping   Standard.   We   are   proud   to   report   zero   work-related   
fatalities   in   2018   across   all   facilities   and   operations.   
  In   2018,   we   received   independent   third-party   verification   of   our   health   and   safety   data   collection   and   reporting   
processes   as   well   as   the   data   itself.   As   part   of   this   project,   the   number   of   hours   worked,   number   of   lost-time   
incidents,   number   of   recordable   incidents   and   number   of   occupational   fatalities   were   verified   at   select   sites.   
  
The   President’s   Safety   Award   Program   recognizes   
Colgate   sites   when   they   achieve   specific   
milestones   of   time   in   years   and/or   hours   without   a   
Lost   Workday   Injury   or   Illness.   In   2018,   36   of   our   
manufacturing   facilities,   global   technology   centers,   
and   warehouse   facilities   received   one   or   more   
awards.   Our   Valencia   Plant   in   Venezuela   has   
reached   eight   million   hours   without   a   safety   incident   
or   lost   work   day,   due   to   their   excellent   teamwork   
and   implementation   of   Training,   Floor   Safety,   
Inspection   and   Ergonomics   programs.   
  
To   continue   to   maintain   our   world-class   safety   performance,   we   evolved   our   critical   risk   programs   in   2019   to   
focus   on   identification,   mitigation,   and   elimination   of   critical   risk   incidents,   accidents,   and   tasks.   Our   approach   
involves   establishing   foundational   culture   and   engagement,   ensuring   visible   and   active   leadership,   having   
sound   technical   programs   and   solutions   to   control   hazards   and   reduce/mitigate   risks.   
41   
  
Our   plant   in   Guatemala   City,   Guatemala   established   a   robust   culture   program   to   re-emphasize   the   importance   
of   our   core   safety   values.   This   journey   focused   on   the   importance   of   working   safely   with   a   commitment   to   care   
for   their   people,   driven   by   leadership   at   all   levels.   The   plant   implemented   a   number   of   impactful   campaigns,   
such   as   the   motto,   “The   reason   I   work   safely   is   for   my   family   and   myself.”   Guatemala   created   a   video   to   share   
with   everyone   as   a   reminder   to   always   work   safely,   and   think   before   acting.   
As   part   of   Colgate’s   ‘Shop   Floor   Coaching   &   Feedback’   training   program,   our   Hills’   Richmond   site   leveraged   a   
‘See-Say-Do’   program   to   identify   and   correct   EOHS-related   gaps   -   see   something,   say   something,   do   something.   
Once   an   issue   has   been   accepted   for   consideration,   a   responsible   party   is   assigned   to   identify   an   appropriate   
corrective   action   that   is   tracked   to   closure.    Feedback   is   provided   to   the   individual   who   raised   the   issue,   and   
before   and   after   pictures   are   posted   in   the   plant   to   provide   the   team   with   a   visual   of   how   the   risk   was   resolved.   
This   process   drives   continuous   improvement,   ownership,   and   accountability   while   demonstrating   the   importance   
of   safety   in   the   site’s   culture.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
42   
  
Risk-Based   Management   
We   continue   to   sharpen   our   focus   on   risk-based   safety   management   with   a   goal   to   eliminate   serious   incidents   
and   fatalities.   This   approach   involves   evaluating   the   risk   severity   for   tasks   conducted   in   our   operations,   and   
ensuring   the   appropriate   controls   are   in   place   to   prevent   an   adverse   outcome.    In   2018,   our   program   
emphasized   communicating   and   establishing   appropriate   controls   to   reduce   and   mitigate   critical   risks   and   
serious   incidents   and   fatalities.   This   expectation   has   been   formally   incorporated   into   our   EOHS   Management   
System   and   Audit   Program.   
We   require   our   manufacturing   sites   to   prepare   an   annual   risk   assessment   and   preventive   and   corrective   action   
plans.   This   is   reviewed   during   management   reviews   and   audits,   conducted   twice   a   year,   to   ensure   our   most   
significant   risks   are   adequately   controlled.   
Working   at   Heights   Safety   
In   an   effort   to   reduce   serious   incidents   involving   employees   working   at   heights,   especially   when   a   ladder   is   
required,   Colgate   embarked   on   a   global   process   to   identify   where   ladders   are   used   to   access   a   height,   and   if   a   
safer   alternative   was   available,   such   as   fixed   work   platforms,   stairs,   portable   platforms,   and/or   use   of   drones.    If   
a   safer   solution   was   not   available   or   feasible,   sites   were   requested   to   implement   a   solution   for   ladder   access   
with   an   appropriate   fall   arrest   engineered   system.   We   are   making   positive   progress.   
•   In   2018,   our   plant   in   Mission   Hills,   Mexico,   was   challenged   with   finding   safer   alternatives   to   working   at   
elevated   heights,   replacing   the   use   of   fixed   or   portable   ladders.   In   partnership   with   the   EOHS,   operational,   
and   engineering   teams,   the   site   determined   it   would   be   safer   to   replace   a   tank   ladder   with   a   fixed   platform.   
This   provided   site   workers   a   safer,   more   efficient   manner   to   perform   their   job   responsibilities.   
Reducing   Noise,   Dust   and   Chemical   Exposures   
In   2018,   Colgate   moved   to   a   single   vendor   to   support   industrial   hygiene   initiatives.   This   provided   us   with   
process   simplification,   enhanced   program   effectiveness,   and   optimized   our   reporting   system.   In   addition,   we   
began   transitioning   to   a   new   industrial   hygiene   data   system,   allowing   for   deeper   analytics.   Colgate   continues   to   
strive   to   reduce   noise,   dust,   and   chemical   exposures   at   our   facilities.   Our   goal   is   to   reduce   the   number   of   
people   who   must   wear   hearing   protection   or   chemical   cartridge   respirators   in   order   to   reduce   their   exposure   
43   2018   Safety   Highlights     
below   the   applicable   acceptable   limit.   In   2018,   we   observed   a   slight   uptick   in   the   percentage   of   employees   
required   to   wear   mandatory   hearing   and   respiratory   protection   as   compared   to   2017:   
Although   the   percentage   of   individuals   wearing   mandatory   hearing   protection   in   2018   increased   slightly,   the   
absolute   number   of   employees   required   to   wear   hearing   protection   decreased   by   over   440.   While   we   have   not   
reduced   the   need   to   use   hearing   protection,   our   toothpaste   manufacturing   facilities   have   eliminated   the   use   of   
mandatory   respiratory   protection.   
We   continue   to   push   towards   reducing   mandatory   use   of   hearing   and   respiratory   protection.   
Reducing   Ergonomic   Exposure   
In   2018,   we   concluded   our   global   ergonomic   risk   reduction   program.   The   program   focused   on   five   key   
elements:   (1)   completion   of   ergonomic   assessments   of   job   tasks;   (2)   reduction   or   elimination   of   ergonomic   
hazards   associated   with   manual   bag   dumping   stations;   (3)   reduction   or   elimination   of   ergonomic   hazards   
associated   with   manual   palletizing;   (4)   implementation   of   appropriate   control   strategies   for   high-risk   tasks;   and   
(5)   completion   of   annual   ergonomics   training.   Many   of   our   sites   have   implemented   a   number   of   innovative   
solutions   to   reduce   our   risks   related   to   manual   handling,   packaging,   and   movement   of   materials.   
•   Mission   Hills,   Mexico   is   leveraging   collaborative   robots   to   reduce   risks   associated   with   manual   placement   
of   bottles   on   conveyors   in   their   Home   Care   Focus   plant.   
•   Our   Cambridge,   Ohio,   USA   Home   Care   plant   has   implemented   the   use   of   collaborative   robots   to   minimize   
hand   case   packing   in   their   co-pack   operations.   
•   Our   Anzio,   Italy   Personal   Care   plant   has   implemented   an   automation   solution   to   enable   a   collaborative   
robot   to   perform   solution   preparation   in   the   microbiology   lab,   eliminating   repetitive   tasks.   
44       %   Required   to   use   in   2014   
(Baseline)   %   Required   to   use   in   
2017   %   Required   to   use   in   
2018   
Hearing   Protection   44%   42.7%   43.4%   
Respiratory   
Protection   5.3%   2.7%   3.1%     
•   In   Mission   Hills,   Mexico,   we   installed   a   new   fully   automated   production   line   for   liquid   cleaners   that   does   
everything   from   blow-molding   the   bottle,   to   labeling   it   to   filling   it,   all   on   one   line.   As   a   result,   this   safer   to   
operate   line   has   increased   our   production   speed   by   44%   with   cost   savings   of   32%.   
•   Our   Morristown,   Tennessee,   USA,   Oral   Care   plant   installed   a   collaborative   robot   in   their   mouthwash   
factory   to   eliminate   hand   palletizing.     
Safety   Incentives   
We   have   improved   our   safety-related   incentive   mechanisms   by   linking   compensation   to   behaviors   that   drive   a   
robust   safety   culture.   These   behaviors   include   training   completion,   physical   inspections,   corrective   action   
completion,   behavioral   observations,   and   participation   in   activities   that   engage   employees.   We   do   not   link   
compensation   to   recordable   rates   and   lost-time   accidents.   
2018   Safety   Week   Highlights   
Safety   Week   is   our   annual   opportunity   to   provide   employee   engagement   events   and   activities   to   continue   to   
demonstrate   and   celebrate   our   commitment   to   our   EOHS   Guiding   Principles   and   foster   the   safety   culture   of   
each   of   our   sites.   Each   year,   Colgate   holds   a   company-wide   Safety   Week,   sharing   best   practices   and   
refreshing   our   commitment   to   health   and   safety.   This   week   remains   a   cornerstone   of   our   safety   culture   and   
provides   an   opportunity   to   focus   on   fundamentals,   and   each   facility’s   own   creativity   delivers   a   solid   and   exciting   
week   year   after   year.   Several   Safety   Week   events   also   include   Colgate   families   in   fun   and   educational   
activities.   Colgate’s   2018   Safety   Week   activities   included   chemical   spill   and   emergency   evacuation   drills,   
machine   guarding   treasure   hunts   to   identify   gaps,   rock   wall   climbing,   and   engaging   external   speakers   to   
address   key   points   of   safety,   important   to   Colgate   people   at   all   of   our   facilities.   
●Colgate’s   plant   in   Swidnica,   Poland   asked   employees   to   participate   in   a   Safety   Perception   Culture   
Survey   to   measure   employee   engagement   related   to   safety   issues.   
  
●Colgate’s   plant   in   Guatemala   City,   Guatemala,   organized   a   variety   of   activities   for   Safety   Week,   
including   a   review   and   update   of   the   lockout/tagout   procedures,   as   well   as   a   workshop   on   safe   
handling   of   forklifts.   
  
●Colgate’s   plant   in   Rillieux,   France,   conducted   workshops   on   working   at   heights   with   a   rock   climbing   
event   to   reinforce   the   criticality   of   working   safely   at   heights.   
45     
Third   Party   Code   of   Conduct   
Colgate   People   are   committed   to   the   highest   standards   of   integrity   and   full   compliance   with   the   Company’ s   
Code   of   Conduct.   It   is   our   goal   to   ensure   that   our   relationships   with   our   suppliers   and   business   partners   
reflect   and   support   the   same   high   ethical   standards.   
Colgate’ s   Third   Party   Code   of   Conduct   establishes   the   Company’ s   expectations   for   suppliers   and   business   
partners   in   a   number   of   critical   areas,   including   labor   practices   and   universal   human   rights,   protecting   the   
environment,   health   and   safety ,   and   ethical   dealings.   Sections   of   the   Third   Party   Code   are   modeled   on,   or   
contain   language   from,   the   Universal   Declaration   of   Human   Rights   and   the   standards   of   the   International   
Labor   Organization.   
The   Code   is   provided   to   suppliers   and   business   partners,   and   Colgate’ s   contracts   and   purchase   orders   
typically   require   suppliers   to   abide   by   the   Code’ s   standards   (or   suppliers’   comparable   code   standards),   
including   applicable   labor   and   equal   employment   laws   as   well   as   environmental,   occupational   health   and   
safety   regulations,   the   Foreign   Corrupt   Practices   Act,   and   Colgate’ s   Anti-Bribery   policy .   
SUPPLIER   RESPONSIBLE   SOURCING   ASSESSMENTS:    Through   the   Supplier   Responsible   
Sourcing   Assessment   program,   Colgate   has   assessed   the   Performance   of   more   than   80   percent   of   
our   suppliers   in   high-risk   geographies   since   2012,   driving   Improved   working   conditions   for   more   
than   50,000   employees   across   our   external   supply   chain.   
Assessing   and   Managing   Supplier   Risk   
As   a   multinational   company   with   a   global   supply   chain,   adverse   actions   and   events   associated   with   our   supply   
chain   could   affect   Colgate’s   reputation   as   a   responsible   company.   To   manage   the   risk   to   the   Company   and   to   
the   workers   in   our   supply   chain,   Colgate   has   a   formal   process   to   identify   and   manage   social,   ethical,   and   
environmental   risks   in   our   supply   chain   and   with   other   business   partners.   Colgate’s   Supplier   Responsible   
Sourcing   Assessment   (SRSA)   program   requires   selected   suppliers   and   business   partners   to   complete   a   
self-assessment   focused   on   labor   practices,   human   rights,   worker   health   and   safety,   environmental   
management,   and   business   integrity.   Risk   factors   considered   in   the   selection   of   suppliers   to   participate   in   the   
program   include:   geographic   risks   (using   the   Verisk   Maplecroft   Risk   Indexes);   Colgate’s   in-country   knowledge;   
46   Responsible   Sourcing     
industry-associated   risks;   and   business   criticality   to   our   operations.   Through   the   use   of   a   supplier   risk   
assessment   scorecard,   selected   suppliers   and   business   partners   are   scored   against   critical   risk   factors   to   
determine   the   need   to   conduct   a   social   compliance   audit.   When   a   supplier   is   assessed   as   high   risk,   a   
third-party   audit   of   its   facility   is   required.   To   date,   there   are   currently   550   suppliers   and   service   providers   in   the   
program   and   46%   have   conducted   a   social   compliance   audit.   
As   a   member   of   the   Supplier   Ethical   Data   Exchange   (Sedex),   Colgate   uses   the   Sedex   Members   Ethical   Trade   
Audit   (SMETA)   protocol   when   required   to   assess   suppliers’   compliance   with   laws   covering   freedom   of   
association,   forced   and   child   labor,   health   and   safety,   wages   and   benefits,   working   hours,   and   discrimination   as   
well   as   environmental   and   business   ethics   matters.   Since   the   program’s   inception   in   2012,   Colgate   has   
assessed   more   than   80   percent   of   our   spend,   exceeding   our   2018   target   with   suppliers   in   high-risk   
geographies,   including   raw   material   and   packaging   suppliers,   contract   manufacturers,   co-packing   facilities,   and   
warehousing   operations.   In   2018,   we   expanded   our   risk   assessment   scope   to   include   third-party   labor   
providers,   providing   labor   in   Colgate   operations.    Internally,   Colgate   has   also   completed   assessments   of   all   
manufacturing   facilities   and   conducted   social   compliance   audits   at   all   facilities   located   in   high-risk   geographies.   
Colgate   is   also   a   member   of   AIMPROGRESS,   a   global   industry   forum   dedicated   to   the   promotion   of   
responsible   sourcing   practices   and   sustainable   production   systems.Through   the   principle   of   mutual   audit   
recognition,   suppliers   share   noncompetitive   audit   data   with   other   manufacturing   companies   that   often   use   the   
same   suppliers,   enabling   us   to   gain   information   more   efficiently   and   relieving   the   burden   of   “audit   fatigue”   on   
suppliers.   
To   further   drive   improvement   in   our   supply   chain,   Colgate   has   participated   in   capacity-building   sessions   through   
the   AIM-PROGRESS   forum   that   are   designed   to   improve   suppliers’   social   and   environmental   performance.   We   
have   participated   in   events   in   Latin   America   and   North   America.   In   addition,   Colgate   conducts   similar   
independent   supplier   responsible   sourcing   training   events   for   our   suppliers.   
Forced   Labor   
Colgate   does   not   use   forced   labor   within   our   own   operations,   and   we   strive   to   eradicate   forced   labor   from   our   
supply   and   value   chains.   We   are   committed   to   the   Consumer   Goods   Forum   (CGF)   Resolution   on   Forced   Labor   
and   the   Priority   Industry   Principles   (PIP)   and   believe   that   every   worker   should   have   freedom   of   movement,   no   
worker   should   pay   for   a   job   and   no   worker   should   be   indebted   or   coerced   to   work.    Moreover,   it   is   Colgate’s   
policy   not   to   work   with   any   supplier   or   contractor   known   to   operate   with   forced   labor.   In   June   2017,   Colgate   
47     
published   our   disclosure   statement,    “Respecting   Human   Rights   and   Labor   Rights:   Disclosure   Statements,”    in   
compliance   with   requirements   of   the   California   Transparency   in   Supply   Chains   Act,   and   the   UK   Modern   Slavery   
Act   and   consistent   with   the   CGF   Social   Resolution.    In   2018,   to   further   strengthen   our   actions   on   fighting   forced   
labor,   we   revised   our   employee    Code   of   Conduct    and   our    Third   Party   Code   of   Conduct    to   incorporate   additional   
language   reflecting   our   expectations   on   respecting   human   and   labor   rights   and   commitment   to   the   CGF   PIP.    In   
addition,   we   published   a    Third-Party   Labor   Provider   Recruitment   and   Employment   Standard    and   a   labor   
provider   risk   assessment   methodology   with   the   objective   of   establishing   expectations   and   evaluating   the   risk   of   
forced   labor   where   third   party   employees,   such   as   temporary   workers,   are   working   in   Colgate’s   operations.   
Conflict   Minerals   
Colgate   supports   ending   the   violence   and   human   rights   violations   by   armed   groups   in   the   Democratic   Republic   
of   Congo   (DRC)   and   neighboring   countries   that   have   been   funded   in   part   by   proceeds   from   the   mining   of   
cassiterite,   columbite-tantalite   (coltan),   wolframite   and   gold,   including   their   derivatives   tin,   tantalum,   and   
tungsten   (3TGs).   For   more   information,   see   Colgate’s    Policy   on   Conflict   Minerals .   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
48     
Background   
Providing   oral   health   education   is   a   Colgate   tradition   dating   back   to   1911.   Today,   Colgate’s   flagship   Bright   
Smiles,   Bright   Futures   (BSBF)   program   is   among   the   most   far-reaching,   successful   children’s   oral   health   
initiatives   in   the   world.   With   progress   in   2018,   BSBF   has   reached   more   than   1   billion   children   and   their   families   
in   over   80   countries   since   1991.   This   is   made   possible   by   partnering   with   educators,   parents,   dental   
professionals,   academic   institutions,   government,   and   non-governmental   organizations   (NGOs),   such   as   the   
Alliance   for   a   CavityFree   Future,   the   American   Dental   Association,   the   Global   Child   Dental   Fund,   the   National   
Dental   Association   and   Save   the   Children,   among   others.   The   cornerstone   of   BSBF   is   its   award-winning   
educational   curriculum.   Developed   by   global   experts,   the   multicultural   education   materials   help   illustrate   how   to   
maintain   healthy   teeth   and   gums,   and   are   implemented   in   more   than   80   countries   in   30   languages   each   year.   In   
several   countries,   the   program   materials   are   part   of   the   permanent   school   curriculum.   
Approach   
We   have   an   ambitious   target   to   educate   1.3   billion   children   through   our   BSBF   program   by   the   year   2020.   To   
date,   we   have   grown   BSBF   through   leveraging   our   six-point   plan:   
In   School   —    Colgate   partners   with   local   schools,   ministries   of   health   and   ministries   of   education   to   
organize   oral   health   educational   classes,   and   provide   free   oral   health   products.   In   the   U.S.,   3.5   million   
children   across   all   50   states,   nearly   nine   out   of   every   10   kindergarten   students,   participated   in   BSBF’ s   
classroom   curriculum.   
  
Community   Relations   —    In   some   countries,   BSBF   is   mobile.   In   the   U.S.,   BSBF   provides   a   fleet   of   nine   
mobile   dental   vans   based   in   hub-cities   working   with   dental   professionals,   non-professional   volunteers,   
and   the   community   to   provide   education,   dental   screenings   and   treatment   referrals   annually .   Each   year,   
the   BSBF   dental   vans   reach   over   10   million   children   in   under-served   rural   and   urban   communities.   Of   
those   reached,   1   million   children   received   $39   million   in   donated   dental   care.   
  
Employee   Engagement   —    In   2018,   over   20%   of   Colgate   employees   worldwide   volunteered   through   
BSBF   and   gave   back   to   the   local   communities   where   we   do   business.   
49   Oral   Health   Education     
Integrated   Marketing   Communications   (IMC)/T rade   Partner   —    With   retail   partners,   such   as   Walmart,   
BSBF   engages   consumers   at   local   stores   and   online.   
Digital   —    Educational   resources   are   provided   online,   including   downloadable   teachers’   guides,   
videos,   oral   health   games,   and   apps,   which   are   available   in   Apple   and   Google   Play   stores.   
Professional   Partnerships   —    Colgate   partners   with   government   health   agencies,   NGOs,   and   dental   
associations   to   expand   the   reach   of   oral   care   education   around   the   world.   
Highlights   
•   Since   the   program’s   inception,   BSBF   has   reached   1   billion   children.   To   celebrate   this   critical   milestone,   
Colgate   embarked   on   a   global   education   campaign   to   spread   the   message   that   people   need   to   brush   for   
two   minutes,   two   times   per   day   with   a   fluoride   toothpaste   to   achieve   maximum   oral   health   benefits.   
  
•   2018   marked   the   50th   anniversary   of   the   Colgate   Dental   Health   Unit   in   the   UK,   a   unique   collaboration   
between   Colgate   and   the   dental   school   at   the   University   of   Manchester,   designed   to   find   new   ways   to   treat   
oral   disease.   This   partnership   has   provided   most   of   the   scientific   evidence   for   Colgate   Anticavity   and   
Colgate   Total.   Modeled   after   this   success,   a   second   Dental   Health   Unit   is   now   in   place   in   Brazil.   
  
•   To   reach   the   thousands   of   taxi   drivers   in   Mumbai   who   have   poor   oral   health   and   no   time   to   visit   a   dentist,   
Colgate   India   Limited,   in   partnership   with   Indian   Dental   Association   (IDA),   found   an   innovative   solution:   a   
free   pop-up   dental   clinic .   A   two-day   dental   clinic   was   conducted   at   the   GVK   Chhatrapati   Shivaji   International   
Airport   to   provide   taxi   drivers   from   the   city   with   free   dental   check-ups,   consultations   and   treatment   by   IDA   
dentists,   and   education   about   preventative   oral   care   measures   and   the   importance   of   oral   health.   This   
initiative   was   an   integral   part   of   Colgate’s   Oral   Health   Month   program   and   the   brand’s   objective   to   Keep   
India   Smiling.   
•   In   partnership   with   the   Dis-Chem   Foundation,   C-P   South   Africa   launched    “Buy   A   Brush,   Help   A   Child”:   
campaign   to   improve   the   oral   health   of   South   African   children.   For   every   toothbrush   bought   at   a   
participating   Dis-Chem   pharmacy,   a   toothbrush   and   toothpaste   --   along   with   access   to   information   about   
good   oral   health   --   was   given   to   a   child   in   need.   More   than   135,000   dental   kits   were   distributed.   This   
initiative   formed   part   of   Colgate’s   BSBF   program,   aimed   at   teaching   children   the   importance   of   practicing   
good   oral   hygiene.   
50     
  •   Colgate’s   commitment   to   increasing   access   to   children’s   oral   health   and   education   in   the   community  
includes   a   strategic   partnership   with   Save   the   Children   in   Colombia,   Mexico,   Guatemala,   Dominican   
Republic,   El   Salvador,   Honduras,   and   the   U.S.   In   2018,   we   reached   more   than   84,000   children   with   oral   
health   education.  
  •   In   October   2018,   in   Lebanon,   Colgate   North   Africa   Middle   East,   partnered   with   Miles   for   Smiles,   Syrian   
American   Dental   Society   (SAM),   dental   students   from   the   University   of   St.   Joseph,   dental   professionals,   
and   volunteers   to   provide   free   dental   screenings   and   oral   health   education   to   refugee   children   affected   by   
conflict.   More   than   4,500   BSBF   dental   kits   were   distributed,   along   with   BSBF   educational   material   
provided   in   Arabic.   
•   Colgate’s   Africa   Eurasia   team   embarked   on   a   BSBF   campaign   to   educate   children   both   inside   and   outside   
the   classroom.   The   goal   is   to   simplify   in-class   materials,   provide   teachers   with   a   gold   standard   reference   
video,   and   provide   engaging   reminders   of   good   oral   health   habits   outside   the   classroom.   Colgate   People   
leveraged   the   fact   that   African   schools   use   their   walls   as   a   medium   to   educate,   creating   ‘Talking   Walls.’   
Talking   Walls   were   provided   to   131   schools   and,   in   2019,   will   reach   1,200   schools.   We   reached   over   five   
million   children   in   approximately   20,000   schools   with   in-class   curriculum   and   dental   kits   in   2018.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
51   
  
Handwashing   Education   The   simple   act   of   washing   hands   with   soap   is   one   of   the   most   effective   ways   to   
prevent   disease   transmission,   especially   among   children.   Handwashing   with   soap   at   key   times,   however,   is   not   
widely   practiced.   As   a   leading   marketer   of   bar   and   liquid   hands   soaps,   Colgate-Palmolive,   through   its   brands   
Protex,   Palmolive,   and   Softsoap,   is   working   with   public   health   officials,   academia,   local   schools,   and   clinics   to   
educate   millions   of   children   and   their   families   about   the   health   and   hygiene   benefits   of   handwashing   with   soap.   
Our   global   handwashing   program   provides   educational   materials   and   sample   products   to   schools   and   
communities,   and   builds   awareness   through   advertising   and   public   relations   campaigns.   In   some   countries,   
Colgate   teaches   handwashing   as   part   of   our   Bright   Smiles,   Bright   Futures   (BSBF)   oral   care   education   program,   
building   the   steps   for   proper   hand   washing   into   the   oral   care   curriculum   and   messaging.   Like   the   oral   care   
component   of   BSBF,   the   program   creates   shared   value   for   both   Colgate   and   society,   helping   to   improve   health   
outcomes   while   building   brand   awareness   and   reputation   for   Colgate’s   Palmolive   and   Protex   soap   brands.   In   
2018,   Colgate   reached   56   million   people   through   advertising,   media   campaigns,   community   events,   and   
educational   programs   in   schools.   
Highlights   
Colgate   was   one   of   the   nine   founding   members   of   the   Global   Handwashing   Day   
campaign,   among   others   such   as   the   World   Bank   and   UNICEF.   Celebrated   October   
15th,   Global   Handwashing   Day   drives   awareness   of   the   vital   importance   of   
handwashing   with   soap   and   its   impact   on   health.   
For   many   years,   Protex   has   been   carrying   out   a   handwashing   campaign   in   Latin   America,   to   raise   awareness   
about   the   importance   of   hand   washing   hygiene   in   preserving   good   health.   In   Brazil,   Colgate   teaches   
handwashing   as   part   of   our   BSBF   oral   care   education   program.   Children   were   taught   proper   handwashing   
techniques   along   with   reinforcing   our   global   commitment   to   “Making   Every   Drop   of   Water   Count.”   
A   commitment   to   support   WASH,   or   water,   sanitation   and   hygiene,   program   is   part   of   Colgate’s   Water   
Stewardship   Strategy   and   our   commitment   to   partner   with   local   and   global   organizations   to   bring   clean   water   to   
underserved   areas   of   the   world.   Through   our   partnership   with   Water   For   People,   Colgate   supports   programs   
that   provide   access   to   clean   water,   sanitation   systems,   and/or   health,   and   hygiene   education,   including   
handwashing.   Colgate   has   contributed   to   Water   For   People’s   Everyone   Forever   program,   helping   them   to   reach   
over    450,000   people   since   2013.     
52   Handwashing   Education   
  
  
Hill’s   mission   is   to   help   enrich   and   lengthen   the   special   relationship   between   people   and   
their   pets.   Through   the   Hill’s   Food,   Shelter   &   Love™   program,   Colgate   partners   with   animal   
shelters   across   the   U.S.   to   provide   discounted   Hill’s   pet   food,   and   training,   digital   tools   and   
content,   as   well   as   shelter   visuals.   For   pet   owners,   Hill’s   provides   Science   Diet   adopter   kits   
with   coupons   and   access   to   a   New   Pet   Parent   website.   Hill’s   believes   the   combination   of   
loving   shelter   care   and   premium   nutrition   helps   make   pets   healthy   and   happy   so   they   are   
ready   to   go   home.   Whether   a   shelter   has   100   or   10,000   adoptions   a   year,   the   goal   is   to   ensure   that   every   pet   
finds   a   forever   home.   That   means   nourishing   every   pet   that   arrives   at   the   shelter   with   Hill’s   nutrition   and   sending   
a   small   starter   bag   home   with   every   new   adopted   pet.   Through   this   partnership   with   animal   shelters,   the   
Company   provided   pet   food   with   a   retail   value   of   more   than   $3   million   in   2018,   and   helped   more   than   688,000   
dogs   and   cats   find   their   forever   home   last   year.   Hill’s   also   partners   to   provide   emergency   food   shipments   to   
shelters   and   veterinary   hospitals   in   the   event   of   a   disaster   through   its   Disaster   Relief   Network,   which   is   an  
extension   of   the   Food,   Shelter   &   Love   program   in   the   U.S.   In   2018,   Hill’s   responded   to   12   emergencies   across   
the   U.S.   and   shipped   over   80,000   pounds   of   pet   food   to   more   than   68   unique   organizations   in   communities   
affected   by   disaster.   
  
Highlights   
•   Hill’s   Pet   Nutrition   is   partnering   with   Kansas   State   University   to   create   a   new   Pet   Health   and   Nutrition   
Center.   The   new   Center   will   be   dedicated   to   clinical   training,   classroom   teaching   and   research.   
  •   Hill's   Prescription   Diet,   our   line   of   premium,   therapeutic   products,   is   only   available   with   a   veterinarian’s   
recommendation   and   primarily   sold   through   clinics.   To   make   this   valuable   product   more   accessible   and   
convenient,   Hill's   created   an   innovative   ‘Hill’s   to   Home’   eCommerce   service   in   the   U.S.   so   vets   can   offer   free   
home   delivery;   except   for   a   $1/item   surcharge   in   two   states;   subscription   discounts   and,   importantly,   
continued   engagement   to   ensure   ongoing   care.   
  •   In   July   and   August   of   2018,   Hill’s   teamed   up   with   NBC   and   Telemundo   Stations   as   a   national   sponsor   of   
NBCUniversal   Owned   Television   Stations’   Clear   The   Shelters   nationwide   pet   adoption   campaign.    1,200   
shelters   participated   and   more   than   102,000   pets   were   adopted   during   last   year’s   Clear   The   Shelters   
campaign.   Over   300   Hill’s   employees   volunteered   at   participating   shelters   near   them   on   Clear   The   Shelters   
Day,   Saturday,   August   18.   
53   Helping   Pets   Find   a   Home   
  
Colgate   contributes   both   funding   and   products   to   a   wide   range   of   charities   and   community   organizations   
around   the   world.   Colgate   also   partners   with   retailers,   consumers,   and   our   employees   to   raise   funds.   Driven   
by   Colgate’s   core   value   of   Caring   and   supported   by   the   involvement   of   Colgate   People,   our   Global   Giving   
Program   makes   a   difference   in   the   communities   we   serve   by   supporting   organizations   that   address   health   
and   educational   disparities.   
Colgate’ s   giving   priorities   are:   
1.   Creating   educational   opportunities   
2.   Advancing   health   and   well-being   
3.   Engaging   Colgate   people   2018   Contributions    $37   million*   
*   Cash   and   in-kind   contributions   to   charitable   organizations,   
including   spending   for   the   Bright   Smiles,   Bright   Futures   
program   in   Colgate’ s   20   largest   subsidiaries   (by   oral   care   
sales   
Creating   Educational   Opportunities   
•   Community   has   always   been   a   top   priority   at   Colgate.   One   of   our   
proudest   initiatives   is   Estrellas   Colgate   in   Mexico,   a   non-profit   fully   funded   
by   Colgate   since   1980   to   help   low-income   children   foster   good   habits   and   
gain   education   through   athletic   and   health   programs.   
•   Colgate   is   proud   to   partner   with   the   YMCA   to   help   Black   and   Hispanic   
teens   from   underserved   communities   and   schools   have   access   to   quality   educational   programs   like   Y   
Scholars.   We   are   a   proud   sponsor   of   the   Hispanic   Achiever   Awards   and   College   Scholarships.   
•    To   promote   the   importance   of   education   among   Latinos   and   help   them   on   the   path   to   higher   education,   
Colgate   in   partnership   with   the   Hispanic   Heritage   Foundation   sponsors   the   Haz   la   U   educational   grant   
program.   This   program   awards   31   educational   grants   totaling   $100,000.   This   initiative   is   committed   to   
preparing   future   generations   of   Latinos   and   to   giving   them   the   tools   to   become   leaders   in   their   communities.   
•    The   Colgate   Women’s   Games   continue   to   be   the   largest   women’s   
amateur   indoor   track   and   field   series   in   the   U.S.   For   45   years,   this   
program   has   helped   young   girls   and   women   develop   a   strong   sense   
of   personal   achievement   and   self-esteem,   value   teamwork   and   
discover   the   importance   of   education.   Open   and   free   to   all   girls   from   
elementary   school   through   college   and   beyond,   Colgate   Women’s   
54   Community   Giving   
  
Games   has   awarded   more   than   $2.6   million   in   educational   grants-in-aid.   And   to   date,   26   Colgate   Women’s   
Games   alumnae   have   gone   on   to   compete   in   the   Olympics!   
•    In   India,   Colgate   offers   a   scholarship   contest   to   make   a   small   yet   meaningful   
difference   in   children’s   lives.   With   each   round,   over   500   consumers   have   the   
opportunity   to   win   educational   scholarships   by   calling   a   number   printed   on   Colgate   
packaging   and   advertised   in   stores   and   in   the   community.   Since   its   launch   in   2009,   
these   scholarships   have   enabled   more   than   1,000   Indian   families,   across   100   cities,   
to   give   their   children   a   brighter   future ━ be   it   in   dance,   sports,   music,   or   academics.   
  
  
Advancing   Health   and   Well-being   
•   Colgate’s   BSBF   Program   partners   with   Kids   in   Need   Foundation   to   Help   Students   Smile   Brighter   for   
School.   Colgate   has   donated   25,000   toothbrushes   and   toothpaste   tubes   to   the   Kids   In   Need   Foundation,   
which   is   encouraging   elementary   school   teachers,   educators,   parents,   and   community   members   across   the   
United   States   to   pledge   their   commitment   to   educating   children   about   the   importance   of   oral   health.   
•   Tom’s   of   Maine   teamed   up   with   The   Kids   in   Need   Foundation   to   donate   10,000   “Backpacks   Full   of   Good”   
to   students   most   in   need,   across   the   United   States.   Each   backpack   is   filled   with   essential   school   supplies   to   
help   students   thrive   and   reach   their   full   potential.   Tom’s   of   Maine   donates   10%   of   profits   each   year   to   
nonprofit   organizations   committed   to   causes   such   as   human   health,   animal   welfare,   education,   and   
environmental   sustainability.     
•   Throughout   the   year,   Colgate   India   supports   a   group   of   90   children   infected   or   affected   by   HIV/AIDS   to   
help   provide   for   their   nutrition   and   education,   including   their   school   fees,   under   the   “Positive   Step”   program.   
This   initiative    positively   impacts   health,   well-being   and   educational   advancement.   Colgate   Business   
Leadership   Program   Associates   and   Volunteers   engage   with   these   children   through   activity   based   learning   
sessions,   which   help   these   children   gain   confidence.   Additionally,   Colgate   employees   volunteer   through   a   
mentorship   program   to   mentor   children   pursuing   higher   studies.   
  
  
55   
  
  
  
•   Colgate   continues   its   partnership   with   Save   the   Children   to   bring   oral  
health   care   to   marginalized   children   in   the   U.S.   and   globally.   The   
partnership   focuses   on   increasing   access   to   oral   health   care   and   products   
and   will   benefit   over   36,000   children   in   low-resource   environments,   
including   El   Salvador,   Honduras,   Columbia,   and   Dominican   Republic.   
  
  
Engaging   Colgate   People   
•   Tom’s   of   Maine   continues   its   practice   of   donating   10%   of   profits   each   year   to   nonprofit   organizations   
committed   to   causes   such   as   human   health,   animal   welfare,   education,   and   environmental   sustainability.   In   
2018,   Tom’s   of   Maine   donated   over   $2   million   to   The   Nature   Conservancy,   with   funding   directed   towards   
water   conservation   efforts.   Plans   include   important   watershed   restoration   projects   in   Colorado   and   
Mississippi   as   well   as   a   national   awareness   and   engagement   campaign.   
•   In   South   Africa,   Colgate   sponsors   the   Phelophepa   Train,   treating   nearly   50,000   people   in   many   
communities   where   medical   services   and   infrastructure   are   unavailable.   
  
•   More   than   450   volunteers   in   Mexico   and   300   volunteers   in   the   Andina   region   (Bolivia,   Colombia,   Ecuador,   
and   Peru)   participated   in   activities   supporting   social   and   sustainable   causes   for   their   annual   Colgate   Cares   
Day.   
•   In   Brazil,   employees   are   trained   to   be   “Agentes   do   
Sorrisos”   or   “Smile   Agents”   to   teach   BSBF   in   local   
communities.   The   program   now   has   a   network   of   1,012   
volunteers   who   have   reached   over   48,000   children   with   
BSBF   education   since   its   inception.   
  
  
56   
  
  
  
  
57    Our   Performance   
Learn   about   the   progress   we’ve   made   on   our   2020   Sustainability   Performance   Commitments   
in   2018.     
Colgate   Global   Brands   
  
  
Colgate   delights   people   with   innovative   products   that   meet   their   needs,   exceed   their   expectations   and   add   
value   to   their   lives.   Our   six   consumer   innovation   centers   rely   on   local   insights   from   around   the   world   to   launch   
more   than   600   new   products   and   product   updates   every   year.   
To   ensure   that   the   products   we   develop   are   placed   in   stores,   Colgate   is   committed   to   listening   to   and   engaging   
with   existing   and   potential   users   and   buyers   around   the   world.   To   ensure   that   our   commercial   teams   stay   close   
to   the   users   of   our   products,   we   undertake   “Getting   Out   of   the   Office”   programs   that   help   build   our   deep   
understanding   of   local   tastes   and   habits   across   categories.   In   Latin   America   we   hosted   a   Dermafest,   which   
included   interviews   with   women   to   understand   their   needs   and   emotions   behind   beauty   and   skin   care   products   
and   to   assist   in   the   design   thinking   and   co-creation   of   ideas.   This   provided   key   insights   to   identify   unmet   user   
needs   and   opportunities   for   existing   product   performance   improvements.   
We   also   listen   to   consumer   feedback   on   our   products.   Colgate’s   Consumer   Affairs   personnel   act   as   consumer   
advocates,   representing   their   perspectives   and   their   challenges   within   the   organization.   Colgate’s   marketing   
executives   regularly   listen   to   consumer   calls   so   they   can   get   closer   to   consumers’   wants   and   needs,   and   
ensure   company   activities   are   designed   to   meet   them.   
Colgate’s   Consumer   Affairs   departments   manage   consumer   relations   around   the   world,   covering   96   percent   of   
Colgate’s   business.   This   team   strives   to   provide   the   very   best   consumer   care   to   make   it   easy   for   people   to   
reach   the   Company,   have   their   messages   heard   and   problems   solved.   
Each   year,   we   work   to   increase   our   consumer   support   coverage   and   accessibility,   via   new   or   centralized   
contact   centers   where   we   optimize   the   latest   consumer   service   tools   and   training   so   every   person   contacting   us   
has   the   very   best   individualized   experience.   In   many   parts   of   the   world,   people   can   now   engage   with   us   via   the   
communication   channels   that   are   most   accessible   and   convenient   for   them   -   whether   via   traditional   methods,   
such   as   phone   calls,   or   via   newer,   real-time   methods   such   as   social   media,   chat,   and   mobile   messaging.   
Our   team   regularly   captures,   evaluates,   and   responds   to   people   who   leave   ratings   and   reviews   on   our   website   
and   various   e-commerce   sites,   so   we   can   ensure   we   are   always   in   touch   with   any   feedback   people   have   about   
our   products.   As   artificial   intelligence   technology   is   rapidly   developing,   we   are   constantly   looking   for   ways   to   
leverage   it   to   enhance   and   extend   our   support   programs.   
58   Consumer-Driven   Innovation     
There   is   increasing   attention   being   given   to   concerns   over   consumer   data   protection   and   privacy.   We   know   that   
when   consumers   provide   us   with   personal   information,   we   have   to   safeguard   it   and   treat   it   responsibly.   We   are   
very   careful   about   how   we   collect,   use,   and   store   personal   data,   and   have   recently   updated   our   policies,   
making   them   readily   available   on   our   websites   around   the   world.   Our   policy   can   be   viewed    here .   
In   addition,   we   regularly   monitor   key   performance   indicators   for   service   in   several   regions   around   the   world.   In   
2018,   86   percent   of   consumers   reported   being   “satisfied”   or   “very   satisfied”   with   our   service.   
  
  
  
Stronger   consumer   engagement   begins   with   better   insights.   Deeper   
and   more   meaningful   people   and   cultural   insights   strengthen   product   
development,   packaging,   and   the   communications   we   deliver   through   
our   integrated   marketing   campaigns.   
  
  
Highlights   
  
Innovation   Driving   Market   Share   Growth     
In   Mexico,   new   Fabuloso   Complete   multi-benefit   liquid   cleaner   added   3.0   market   share   points   in   2018,   
strengthening   the   brand’s   market-leading   position   in   the   category.   
Partnering   With   Vets   to   Provide   Hill’s   To   Home   Convenience   For   Pet   Parents   
Hill’s   Prescription   Diet   pet   food   is   only   available   with   a   veterinarian’s   recommendation   and   is   primarily   sold   
through   veterinary   clinics.   To   make   this   valuable   product   more   accessible   and   convenient,   Hill’s   created   an   
innovative   Hill’s   To   Home   e-commerce   service   in   the   U.S.   so   vets   can   offer   free   home   delivery,   subscription   
discounts   and,   importantly,   continued   engagement   to   ensure   ongoing   care.   
  
Colgate   remains    India’s   #1   Most   Trusted   Oral   Care   brand ,    recognized   by   The   Economic   Times,   Brand   Equity   -   
Most   Trusted   Brands    Annual   Survey    for   2018,   conducted   by   Nielsen.   
  
  
59   
  
  
Tom’s   of   Maine   has   become   a   ‘ Certified   B   Corporation ,’   with   the   non-profit   B   Lab,   
making   the   company   part   of   an   elite   group   of   businesses   that   meet   higher   levels   of   
social   and   environmental   performance,   transparency   and   accountability.   Tom’s   of   
Maine   is   one   of   a   select   number   of   natural   personal   care   companies   to   become   a   
Certified   B   Corporation.   Through   this   accreditation,    Tom’s   of   Maine    publicly   commits   to   
upholding   a   purpose-driven   business   and   supporting   a   global   economy   that   benefits   all.   
  
  
Product   sustainability   at   Colgate   means   a   continued   commitment   to   safe,   sustainable,   high-quality   products   that   
consumers   can   trust.   As   part   of   our   2020   Sustainability   Strategy,   we   are   committed   to   increasing   the   
sustainability   profile   in   all   new   products.   Consumers   increasingly   purchase   products   that   both   meet   their   needs   
and   have   a   social   impact   and   reduced   environmental   footprint.   At   Colgate,   we   are   working   to   meet   that   
expectation   by:   
  Driving   Sustainability   Through   Our   Product   Categories   
We   continue   to   implement   product   category   sustainability   strategies   that   align   with   and   support   our   2015   to   
2020   Sustainability   Strategy.   
Improving   the   Product   Sustainability   Profile   of   Our   Products   
Teams   across   the   Colgate   world   collaborate   to   develop   products   with   improved   sustainability   profiles.   
Opportunities   to   improve   product   sustainability   are   considered   throughout   the   product   development   process   by   
multiple   functions   (from   formulation   to   packaging).   Annually,   we   apply   the   criteria   in   our   product   sustainability   
scorecard   to   the   new   products   we   plan   to   launch.   
Delivering   Safe   and   Sustainable   Ingredients   
Colgate   remains   committed   not   only   to   making   safe   products,   but   also   to   making   those   products   with   
ingredients   and   processes   that   have   minimal   impact   on   the   world   around   us.   
Providing   Access   to   Affordable   Products   
60   Product   Sustainability   at   Colgate   
  
We   continue   to   expand   access   to   affordable   health   and   wellness   products   for   millions   of   people   in   underserved   
communities.   
Driving   Sustainability   Through   Our   Categories   
Colgate   is   embedding   sustainability   across   our   Oral   Care   category.   Our   products   and   oral   health   education   
programs   improve   oral   health   around   the   world   and   help   reduce   cavities,   one   of   the   most   chronic   global   
diseases.   We   also   promote   water   conservation   awareness   to   consumers,   encouraging   them   to   turn   off   the   
faucet   when   brushing   their   teeth.   We   are   improving   the   ingredient   sustainability   profile   of   our   products,   
removing   PVC   from   toothbrush   packaging,   and   reducing   the   environmental   footprint   of   our   oral   care   factories.   
Colgate   is   also   making   improvements   in   our   Personal   Care   category,   from   improving   ingredient   biodegradability   
and   moving   toward   more   sustainable   preservative   systems   to   optimizing   packaging   size   and   improving   
packaging   recyclability.   We   are   educating   millions   of   children   and   their   families   around   the   world   about   the   
importance   of   handwashing   with   soap,   and   are   also   working   to   reduce   our   carbon   and   water   footprint.   
In   our   Home   Care   category,   Colgate   is   increasing   the   use   of   recycled   and   recyclable   plastics   in   our   packaging   
and   improving   the   ingredient   sustainability   profile   of   our   products,   including   eliminating   formaldehyde   donors   
and   reducing   volatile   organic   compounds   to   improve   air   quality.   We   are   also   helping   consumers   save   energy   
and   water   with   our   cleaning   products.   
Hill’s   Pet   Nutrition   is   working   to   source   its   ingredients   responsibly,   reduce   its   operational   footprint,   and   provide   
pet   food   to   shelters   at   a   discount   to   help   millions   of   dogs   and   cats   find   their   forever   homes.   Hill’s   is   also   leading   
the   way   to   Working   Towards   Zero   Waste   at   Colgate.   The   first   four   “Zero   Waste   to   Landfill”   factories   are   Hill’s   
factories.   Today,   100%   of   Hill’s   dry   pet   food   is   produced   at   a   Zero   Waste   to   Landfill   plant.   
Colgate’s   Product   Sustainability   Scorecard   is   intended   to   measure   the   progress   of   our   goals   to   increase   the   
sustainability   in   our   products   by   2020.   Our   product   sustainability   key   performance   indicators   are   focused   on   
three   areas:   Packaging,   Formula   and   Social   Impact.   Through   cross-functional   collaboration   across   the   Colgate   
world,   we   continue   to   make   progress   and   improve   the   sustainability   profile   in   over   96   percent   of   new   products   
in   2018. (1)   
  
  
61   Improving   the   Product   Sustainability   Profile   of   Our   Products     
(1)   The   performance   results   are   based   on   representative   products   from   the   product   portfolio   evaluated   against   
comparable   Colgate   products   across   three   impact   areas   to   characterize   likely   improvement   in   the   sustainability   profile,   
based   on   review   of   quantitative   and   qualitative   data.   
2018   Product   Highlights   
  
  
62   
  
Product   Safety   and   Quality   
We   continuously   monitor   and   evaluate   the   safety   of   our   ingredients,   and   we   actively   engage   with   outside   
experts   and   resources   to   understand   emerging   science   and   deepen   our   knowledge.   We   also   comply   with   all   
aspects   of   the   European   Union’s   REACH   regulation   (Registration,   Evaluation,   Authorization,   and   Restriction   of   
Chemical   substances).   To   learn   more   about   the   science   behind   our   products,   please   visit    Scientific   Excellence   
section   of   our   website,   and   learn   more   about   our    Ingredient   Safety   Policy    and   progress   updates,   please   visit   
the    Ingredient   Safety    section.   
Product   Safety   Testing   
Colgate   has   a   longstanding   policy   to   minimize   and   ultimately   eliminate   animal   testing   associated   with   
development   of   oral   care,   personal   care,   and   home   care   products.   Central   to   this   commitment   are   our   
35-year-long   efforts   to   encourage   the   development   of   alternatives   that   are   scientifically   valid   and   can   be   
accepted   by   scientific   regulators.   
We   are   a   leader   in   promoting,   encouraging,   and   participating   in   the   development,   validation,   and   acceptance   
of   non-animal   testing   methods   worldwide,   investing   more   than   $1   million   dollars   annually   on   research   with   
non-animal   alternatives.   Globally,   there   are   circumstances   when   regulatory   agencies   require   animal   testing   of   
oral   care,   personal   care,   and   home   care   products.   In   such   limited   instances,   the   tests   are   conducted   at   
external   testing   facilities   that   meet   strict   government   standards   and   the   rigorous   requirements   that   were   
established   by   Colgate   with   input   from   animal   welfare   groups.   We   work   closely   with   worldwide   regulatory   
agencies   to   examine   how   non-animal   tests   can   be   incorporated   into   their   safety   requirements   for   consumer   
products.   In   addition,   we   support   the   European   Partnership   for   Alternative   to   Animals,   the   Johns   Hopkins   
Center   for   Alternatives   to   Animal   Testing,   and   the   Institute   for   In   Vitro   Science   which   are   organizations   that   are   
focused   on   developing   and/or   promoting   the   use   of   non-animal   methods.   
Colgate   actively   shares   its   work   to   reduce   animal   use   and   develop   alternatives   so   that   this   information   can   
help   others   minimize   animal   use.   Colgate   is   also   a   strong   supporter   of   education   in   this   field   and   partners   with   
63   Delivering   Safe   &   Sustainable   Ingredients     
the   Society   of   Toxicology   to   provide   grants   for   student   internships,   post-doctoral   fellowships   and   research   
grants   to   further   promote   the   field   of   alternatives   to   animal   research.   
Hill’s   uses   only   non-invasive,   humane   research   methods   to   develop   superior   nutritional   technology   so   that   
dogs   and   cats   live   longer,   healthier   lives.   Importantly,   Hill’s   believes   that   any   procedure   that   causes   pain   to   
people   also   causes   pain   to   animals   and   therefore,   is   not   permitted.   Hill’s   does   not   create   or   simulate   disease   
conditions   in   animals   and   does   not   conduct   a   study   where   euthanasia   is   the   end   point.   Hill’s   breakthroughs   in   
pet   nutrition   are   unmatched   in   the   pet   food   industry,   and   it   has   built   its   business   and   reputation   on   always   
practicing   the   highest   ethical   standards.   Hill’s   publishes   its   animal   welfare   policy   on   its   website,   which   governs   
all   studies   they   conduct   or   support.   
We   look   forward   to   the   day   when   all   necessary   safety   studies   for   oral   care,   personal   care,   and   home   care   
products   can   be   performed   without   the   use   of   animals.   We   will   continue   our   unwavering   efforts   toward   the   
development,   validation,   and   scientific   and   regulatory   acceptance   of   alternative   non-animal   methods   of   product   
safety   research,   while   remaining   steadfast   in   our   commitment   to   the   highest   standards   of   product   safety   for   our   
consumers.   For   more   information   on   our   Product   Safety   Research   Policy   and   other   policies,   visit    our   website .   
Ingredient   Transparency   
Our   business   is   subject   to   extensive   legal   and   regulatory   requirements   in   the   U.S.   and   abroad.   Such   legal   and   
regulatory   requirements   apply   to   most   aspects   of   our   products,   including   their   development,   ingredients,   
manufacture,   packaging,   labeling,   storage,   transportation,   distribution,   export,   import,   advertising,   sales   and   
environmental   impact.   U.S.   federal   authorities,   including   the   U.S.   Food   and   Drug   Administration   (the   “FDA”),   
the   Federal   Trade   Commission,   the   Consumer   Product   Safety   Commission   and   the   Environmental   Protection   
Agency,   regulate   different   aspects   of   our   business,   along   with   parallel   authorities   at   the   state   and   local   levels   
and   comparable   authorities   overseas.   
We   recognize   consumers   want   to   know   more   about   the   ingredients   in   the   products   they   use.   Colgate   
continues   to   be   an   active   participant   in   SmartLabel™,   a   digital   platform   co-created   by   the   Grocery   
Manufacturers   Association   (GMA)   and   the   Food   Marketing   Institute   (FMI)   in   conjunction   with   manufacturers   
and   retailers   developed   to   inform   consumers   about   what’s   in   their   products   and   why.   SmartLabel   provides   a   
wide   range   of   product   details   that   cannot   fit   on   a   package   label.   It   goes   beyond   the   label   to   tell   consumers   not   
just   what   ingredients   are   included   in   their   products;   it   explains   what   those   ingredients   are,   why   they   are   in   the   
64     
product,   and   what   they   do.   SmartLabel   was   designed   to   match   how   people   use   information   and   technology   
today.   Thus,   consumers   can   access   SmartLabel   at   home   and   on-the-go,   while   creating   a   shopping   list   on   their   
phone   or   when   making   a   purchase   decision   in   the   store.   
  
Colgate   participates   in   SmartLabel   in   the   U.S.   and   Canada.   
The   program   continues   to   grow   and   today   more   than   40   
companies   and   825   brands   participate   in   this   program.   
  
  
  
  
Colgate’s   packaging   organization   regularly   evaluates   materials,   processes,   and   delivery   systems   that   can   
improve   the   sustainability   profile   of   our   packages.   Colgate’s   packaging   sustainability   strategy   centers   around   
the   following   actions:   
● Minimizing   the   volume   and   weight   of   our   packaging   required   to   label   and   protect   our   products   
● Using   recycled   content   and   evaluating   new   materials   and   sources   
● Designing   products   for   recyclability   and   materials   reduction   while   ensuring   product   integrity   
● Assessing   the   human   health   and   environmental   impact   of   our   packaging   
● Expanding   refill   package   systems   in   product   categories   where   feasible   
● Collaborating   to   inspire,   incentivize,   and   educate   people   on   recycled   content   and   recyclability   
● Supporting   innovative   efforts   to   improve   local   recycling   systems   
Information   on   our   work   to   exit   PVC,   improve   recyclability,   increase   recycled   content,   and   minimize   weight   and   
volume   of   packaging   follows.   
  
  
  
65   Delivering   More   Sustainable   Packaging   
  
We   are   committed   to   exiting   PVC   by   2020.   Historically   our   most   significant   use   of   PVC   has   been   the   toothbrush   
blister   package.   Currently,   we   have   eliminated   PVC   in   more   than   99   percent   of   our   packaging   by   weight.   In   
addition,   we   have   developed   plans   to   exit   remaining   uses   of   PVC   such   as   shrink   sleeves,   labels,   and   pouches.   In   
Asia,     we   replaced   PVC   shrink   wrap   with   an   alternative   recyclable   wrap,   replacing   approximately   5   tons/yr.   
  
Colgate   is   committed   to   improving   the   recyclability   of   our   packaging   and   we   target   to   achieve:   
●100%   recyclable   packaging   in   personal   care,   home   care,   and   pet   nutrition   by   2020   
●100%   recyclable   packaging   for   all   categories,   to   include   breakthrough   innovation   in   oral   care   
packaging   by   2025   
    
As   of   year-end   2018,   approximately   83   percent   of   our   packaging   by   weight   is   recyclable   in   personal   care,   home   
care   and   pet   nutrition.   When   oral   care   packaging   is   added,   our   packaging   recyclability   company-wide   is   77%,   
excluding   our   recently   acquired   skin   care   businesses   PCA   Skin   and   EltaMD.   
  
Over   200   projects   are   underway   in   each   category   that   we   expect   will   transform   our   packaging   portfolio   in   2019   
and   2020.   For   example,   we   are   transitioning   from   opaque   to   clear   PET   bottles,   redesigning   multi-material   films   
and   improving   recyclability   of   dispensing   systems.   
  
We   are   rolling   out   the   implementation   of   shrink   sleeves   with   perforated   tear   tabs,   and   we   direct   consumers   to   
remove   the   sleeve   at   end   of   use   to   improve   bottle   recycling.   We   continue   to   focus   on   achieving   breakthrough   
innovation   in   new   shrink   sleeve   technology   and   pressure-sensitive   label   systems   that   are   preferred   by   recycling   
facilities.   
Colgate’s   Palmolive   Oxy   Dishwash   bottles   use   a   recyclable   PET   shrink   sleeve   with   
washable   inks,   making   it   easier   to   recycle.   It   was   recently   showcased   by   the   
Association   of   Plastics   Recyclers    (APR)   in   the   U.S.   as   an   Innovation   in   Plastics   
Recycling.   The   showcase   identifies,   highlights,   and   commends   the   industry’s   leading   
innovations   developed   by   APR   member   companies   that   support   the   growth   of   
plastics   recycling.   
66   EXIT   PVC   
IMPROVE   RECYCLABILITY   
  
Colgate’s   2020   goal   is   to   increase   recycled   content   in   our   packaging   to   50   percent   on   average.   As   of   year-end   
2018,   approximately   42   percent   of   our   packaging   materials   are   from   recycled   sources.   While   this   number   has   
remained   flat   as   compared   to   2017,   plans   for   procurement   of   more   recycled   content   are   in   place   and   being   
implemented   to   meet   our   2020   goal.   
  
  
In   Latin   America,   we   increased   recycled   content   in   PET   bottles   to   50%   (from   0%   and   
25%)   in   four   types   of   bottles.   
  
  
    
  
In   Asia,   we   transformed   two   carton   systems   to   recycled   board.   
  
  
As   part   of   our   Funding   the   Growth   initiatives,   Colgate   has   long   been   minimizing   the   volume   and   weight   of   our   
packaging.   We   strive   to   use   the   minimum   amount   of   packaging   required   to   label   and   protect   our   products.   We   
recognize   the   importance   of   reducing   waste   at   every   stage   of   the   product   life-cycle,   including   at   the   end-of-use   of   
our   products   and   packaging.   Read   more   on   our   programs   to   collect   packaging   waste   and   our   commitment   to   
work   with   stakeholders   to   drive   continuous   improvement   in   local   recycling   systems,   see   Reducing   Consumer   
Waste.   
    
In   Italy,   our   personal   care   team   reduced   the   weight   of   our   Palmolive   Naturals   Liquid   
Hand   Soap   750ml   bottle   and   saved   12   metric   tons   of   plastic   per   year.   
  
  
  
  
67   INCREASE   RECYCLED   CONTENT   
MINIMIZE   WEIGHT   AND   VOLUME     
  
  
  
In   Turkey,   we   eliminated   the   overwrapper   used   to   pack   bottles   of   Palmolive   
Shower   Gel   750ml   saving   13   tons   of   plastic   per   year.   
  
  
  
  
In   Poland,   we   reduced   the   film   thickness   and   weight   of   the   cap   on   our   Colgate   
toothpaste   tube,   reducing   plastic   consumption   by   13   tons   per   year.   
  
  
  
  
South   Africa   eliminated   the   cap   used   in   Sta   Soft   500ml   stand-up   pouches,   reducing   
their   yearly   plastic   consumption   by   18   tons.     
  
  
  
  
  
In   Mexico,   we   designed   a   new   bottle   for   Suavitel   
Complete   800ml,   resulting   in   the   reduction   of   850   
tons   of   plastic   per   year.     
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
68   
  
  
2018   Highlights   
●COLGATE-PALMOLIVE   JOINS   ELLEN   MACARTHUR   FOUNDATION’S   NEW   PLASTICS   
ECONOMY   INITIATIVE ,   reflecting   the   company’s   commitment   to   100%   recyclability   of   packaging   
across   all   its   product   categories   and   its   target   to   achieve   25%   recycled   content   in   all   plastic   
packaging   by   2025.   
  
●COLGATE-PALMOLIVE   COMMITS   TO   RECYCLABILITY   OF   PLASTICS   IN   ALL   PACKAGING ,   as   
part   of   its   commitment   to   protect   our   environment,   Colgate-Palmolive   has   committed   to   100   percent   
recyclability   of   plastics   in   packaging   across   all   its   product   categories   by   2025.   The   company   has   
already   made   significant   progress   in   advancing   its   2020   packaging   sustainability   goals,   and   currently   
98   percent   of   its   packaging   is   PVC-free.   
  
●COLGATE-PALMOLIVE   JOINS   THE   RECYCLING   PARTNERSHIP   and   PEPSICO   FOUNDATIONS   
RECYCLING   CHALLENGE,   ALL   IN   ON   RECYCLING .   Colgate   has   targeted   100   percent   recyclability   
of   its   packaging   and   25   percent   recycled   content   in   all   plastic   packaging   by   2025.   
  
●The   Consumer   Goods   Forum   announced   that   250   companies,   including   Colgate-Palmolive,   have   
committed   to   reducing   plastic   waste    and   are   supporting   the   Ellen   MacArthur   Foundation's   New   
Plastics   Economy   Global   Vision,   drawing   a    #LineIntheSand .   C-P   also   signed   the   EPA’s   America   
Recycles   Day   Pledge.   In   other   recycling   news,   Colgate   UK   announced   a    new   partnership   with   
Terracycle ,   providing   solutions   for   Oral   Care   recycling   in   the   region.   
  
●Colgate-Palmolive   also   signed   the   EPA’s   America   Recycles   Day   Pledge.   In   other   recycling   news,   
Colgate   UK   announced   a    new   partnership   with   Terracycle ,   providing   solutions   for   Oral   Care   recycling   
in   the   region.   
  
●Washable   Ink   Shrink   Sleeve   (WISS)   Shrink   Sleeve   on   Palmolive   Oxy   Dishwash   Bottles   was   
recognized   by   The   Association   of   Plastic   Recyclers   (APR),   as   one   of   the   industry’s   leading   
innovations,   supporting   the   growth   of    plastics   recycling .   
  
69     
Product   sustainability   at   Colgate   also   means   a   commitment   to   providing   affordable   product   options   in   our   
portfolio.   We   have   a   2020   goal   to   expand   access   to   affordable   health   and   wellness   products   for   millions   
of   people   in   underserved   communities.   We   make   products   more   affordable   while   maintaining   quality   with   
smaller   sizes,   refill   packages,   and   value   options.   We   distribute   our   products   broadly   to   give   more   
consumers   access   to   Colgate   products.   Offerings   are   customized   to   best   reach   consumers   within   their   
socioeconomic   level,   available   household   income   and   specific   consumer   needs.   We   are   finding   ways   to   
offer   the   benefits   of   more   premium   products   at   affordable   price   points.   
Globally,   we   strategically   balance   Colgate’s   portfolio   between   base   and   premium   tiers   as   appropriate   for   
the   region.   This   starts   with   consumer   panels   and   research   that   gives   us   an   in-depth   understanding   of   
consumers.   We   partner   with   hundreds   of   thousands   of   retail   stores   to   sell   Colgate   products   around   the   
world.   Treating   all   retail   customers   with   fairness   and   integrity   is   a   priority.   We   engage   our   customers   
worldwide   by   sharing   unique   shopper   insights,   providing   innovative   in-store   marketing   communications   
and   merchandising   techniques,   and   developing   and   executing   joint   business   planning   initiatives.   
These   activities   ensure   the   right   product   assortment   at   each   location   and   help   to   make   shopping   a   
consumer-   friendly,   enjoyable   experience   that   drives   increased   sales   for   both   Colgate   and   the   retailer.   
Many   people   around   the   world   do   not   have   access   to   basic   dental   care   and   education.   As   a   leading   
provider   of   oral   care   products,   Colgate   has   the   unique   ability   to   address   this   major   social   issue   and   to   
improve   the   oral   health   of   families   around   the   world.   In   Ghana,   toothpaste   use   as   part   of   a   healthy   oral   
care   habit   remains   a   challenge.   High   costs   and   rural   distribution   remain   important   hurdles   to   address.   
Colgate   introduced   a   small   and   affordable   toothpaste   sachet,   Colgate   Maximum   Cavity   Protection   3   
Gram,   for   Ghanaian   consumers   as   a   basic   toothpaste   to   prevent   tooth   aches   and   holes   in   the   teeth.   
Priced   at   20Gp   per   sachet,   this   dental   cream   comes   with   the   same   quality   as   other   Colgate   products,   
encouraging   rural   dwellers   to   choose   Colgate   toothpaste   as   the   preferred   choice   for   oral   care.   
Partnering   with   Customers   
We   partner   with   hundreds   of   thousands   of   retail   stores   to   sell   Colgate   products   around   the   world.   
Treating   all   retail   customers   with   fairness   and   integrity   is   a   priority.   We   engage   our   customers   worldwide   
by   sharing   unique   shopper   insights,   providing   innovative   in-store   marketing   communications   and  
70   Providing   Access   to   Affordable   Products     
merchandising   techniques,   and   developing   and   executing   joint   business   planning   initiatives.   These   
activities   ensure   the   right   product   assortment   at   each   location   and   help   to   make   shopping   a   consumer-   
friendly,   enjoyable   experience   that   drives   increased   sales   for   both   Colgate   and   the   retailer.   
To   ensure   continued   success,   we   track   retailer   satisfaction   in   20   of   Colgate’s   largest   subsidiaries   every   
two   years.   The   Company   participates   in   a   widely   used   industry   standard   syndicated   survey   run   by   the   
Advantage   Group.   The   objective   is   to   measure   our   customer   engagement   with   the   goal   of   strengthening   
our   performance   across   key   markets,   building   robust   action   plans   based   on   the   survey   feedback.   
Colgate   also   partners   with   key   customers   to   advance   our   mutual   sustainability   goals.   We   often   partner   
with   retailers   to   engage   consumers   with   programs   such   as   our   Bright   Smiles,   Bright   Futures   oral   health   
education   program,   Operation   Smile,   and   TerraCycle®.   
2018   Highlights   
Getting   External   
●Colgate   continues   to   partner   with   eco-innovator   TerraCycle®   in   five   markets,   including   the   U.S,   
Australia,   New   Zealand,   U.K.,   and   China.   TerraCycle®   recycles   and   “upcycles”   oral   care   packaging   
collected   at   schools,   stores,   and   other   locations   into   new   and   affordable   eco-friendly   products.   
Through   this   partnership,   in   2018,   more   than   48,000   locations   engaged   in   recycling,   helping   us   divert   
nearly   9   million   pieces   of   waste   from   landfills.   Participating   locations   are   able   to   raise   funds   for   
schools   and   charities   of   their   choice   as   an   incentive   for   recycling.   
  
●To   engage   consumers   to   recycle   Colgate   oral   care   packaging,   Colgate   and   TerraCycle®   partnered   
with   both   ShopRite   and   Meijer   stores   in   2018   to   run   recycled   playground   giveaways.   In-store   
displays   drove   awareness   of   the   Colgate   Oral   Care   recycling   program   and   publicized   a   contest   for   
schools   to   compete   to   win   a   playground   made   from   recycled   toothbrushes   and   toothpaste   tubes.   To   
date,   Colgate   has   made   16   recycled   donations   consisting   of   playgrounds,   gardens,   and   park   
furniture   to   communities   in   the   United   States.   
  
●C-P   Italy   was   recognized   for   its   innovative   and   environmentally-sustainable   packaging   solutions   for  
Ajax   and   Fabuloso   by    CONAI's   Call   for   Prevention    competition.   The   National   Packaging   Consortium   
awards   the   most   innovative   and   environmentally-sustainable   packaging   solutions   in   the   Italian   
market.   
  
71     
●JieZhong,   the   innovative   start-up   between   Colgate-Palmolive   and   ZhongAn   Insurance,   an   online   
insurance   technology   company,   has   introduced   a   customizable   digital   platform   for   consumers   to   link   
oral   care   with   health   insurance   for   better   outcomes   and   potential   savings.   Colgate   Smile   Club   is   an   
app-enabled   marketplace   that   offers   the   Colgate   Connect   E1   smart   toothbrush   and   subscriptions   to   
an   array   of   premium   Colgate   oral   care   products,   together   with   customized   oral   care   insurance   
products   from   ZhongAn.   Colgate   and   ZhongAn   aim   to   increase   awareness   among   Chinese   
consumers   of   the   importance   of   good   oral   health   habits   to   prevent   dental   problems.   
  
●Hill's   Prescription   Diet,   our   line   of   premium,   therapeutic   products,   is   only   available   with   a   
veterinarian’s   recommendation   and   primarily   sold   through   clinics.   To   make   this   valuable   product   
more   accessible   and   convenient,   Hill's   created   an   innovative   ‘Hill’s   to   Home’   eCommerce   service   in   
the   US   so   vets   can   offer   free   home   delivery,   subscription   discounts   and,   importantly,   continued   
engagement   to   ensure   ongoing   care.   
  
●In   the    UK ,   the   new    Colgate   Magik™   Toothbrush    uses   augmented   reality   games   --   the   first   manual   
toothbrush   to   visibly   track   brushing   technique.   In    France ,   Colgate®   Connect   M1   is   the   first   
connected   brush   with   artificial   intelligence   and   our   first   Direct-to-Consumer   offering   in   Europe.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
72     
  
Deforestation   is   one   of   Colgate’s   key   sustainability   issues.   It   is   critical   from   a   business,   social,   environmental,   
and   reputational   risk   standpoint.   Our   policies   and   commitments   help   us   manage   the   deforestation   risks   in   our   
supply   chain   for   pulp   and   paper,   palm   oil   and   derivatives,   soy   and   soy   oil,   and   beef   tallow.   In   line   with   Colgate’s   
values,   we   are   committed   to   protecting   the   global   environment,   enhancing   the   communities   where   people   live,   
and   operating   in   compliance   with   government   laws   and   regulations.   As   part   of   Colgate’s   2020   sustainability   
strategy,   which   is   focused   on   People,   Performance   and   Planet,   we   are   committed   to   the   responsible   sourcing   of   
forest   commodities   to   reach   a   sustainable   supply   chain   by   2020.   Because   we   share   a   vision   with   our   key   
stakeholders   for   a   future   without   deforestation,   we   are   committed   to   being   transparent   with   our   employees,  
shareholders,   suppliers,   and   NGOs   about   our   commitments,   challenges,   and   the   progress   we   have   made   in   
this   area.   
Much   of   Colgate’s   packaging   materials   utilize   wood-derived   or   paper-based   products.   Approximately   76   percent   
of   our   pulp   and   paper   is   recycled   or   certified   as   sourced   from   responsibly   managed   forests.   Colgate   has   made   
significant   progress   in   policy   development   on   commodity   sourcing   and   deforestation   over   the   past   three   years.   
Contributing   to   this   progress   is   the   company’s   active   membership   in   the   Consumer   Goods   Forum   (CGF),   a   
large   network   of   retailers,   manufacturers   and   service   providers   dedicated   to   a   vision   of   “Better   lives   through   
better   business.”   Ian   Cook,   Colgate’s   Executive   Chairman,   currently   serves   on   the   CGF   Board   of   Directors.   
Colgate   is   committed   to   tackling   deforestation   for   pulp   and   paper,   palm   oil   and   derivatives,   soy   and   soy   oil,   and   
beef   tallow.   Colgate   believes   the   implementation   of   an   effective   deforestation   program   is   critical   so   we   can   
manage   the   impact   our   activities   have   on   ecosystems   and   habitats,   meet   stakeholders’   expectations,   protect   
our   reputation,   and   comply   with   regulations.   
  
  
73    Our   Planet   
Learn   about   the   progress   we’ve   made   on   our   2020   Sustainability   Planet   Commitments   in   
2018.     
Our   Commitment   to   No   Deforestation     
  
2018    Colgate’ s   Deforestation   Milestones   
Colgate   developed   a   commodity-specific   policy   on   responsible   and   sustainable   sourcing   of   palm   oil   in   2016.   
Since   then,   we   have   taken   action   to   responsibly   source   palm   oil   in   the   following   ways:   
•   Communicated   our   policy   to   our   direct   suppliers   
•   Requested   information   on   traceability   to   the   mill   and   plantation   level   from   100   percent   of   Colgate’s   direct   
suppliers   of   palm   oil   and   palm   kernel   oil   (PKO)   
•   Engaged   direct   suppliers   of   palm   oil   and   PKO   to   drive   policy   implementation,   encourage   increased   
transparency,   and   understand   their   plans   for   transformation   of   their   supply   chain   
•   Requested   information   on   palm   oil   derivatives   traceability   work   to   the   mill   level.   Earthworm   Foundation   
has   determined   key   supply   chain   points   to   act   as   milestones   in   the   work   to   achieve   full   traceability   
upstream.   These   supply   chain   points   are   as   follows:   first   importer,   origin   refiner   and   mills   
•   Incorporated   sustainability   considerations   into   the   supplier   selection   process   
•   Committed   to   procure   100   percent   certified   palm   oil   and   PKO   
•   Included   palm   oil   suppliers   in   Colgate-Palmolive   Supplier   Responsible   Sourcing   Assessment   Program   
•   Disclosed   Colgate’s   suppliers   of   palm   oil   and   palm   kernel   oil   and   mills   
•   Established   Governance   team   for   palm   oil   suppliers   to   enhance   current   due   diligence   process   
•   Discontinued   relations   with   certain   suppliers   who   are   not   making   adequate   progress   towards   our   policy   
commitments   and   time-bound   action   plan   
•   Started   to   use   WRI-GFW   satellite   monitoring   system   to   identify   and   manage   potential   deforestation   alerts   
within   our   supplier’s   palm   oil   network   
•   Started   to   pilot   Starling-TFT   satellite   monitoring   system   to   enhance   our   current   risk   management   program   
for   palm   oil   suppliers   
  
  
74     
Key   elements   of   our   approach   to   No   Deforestation   and   successes   to-date   are   as   follows.   
1.   Pulp   and   Paper   
Pulp   and   Paper   Approach   
Colgate   is   committed   to   sourcing   paper   and   packaging   from   recycled   sources   and   responsibly   managed   forests   
that   do   not   contribute   to   deforestation.   
As   part   of   our   responsible   sourcing   strategy,   we   continue   working   with   our   partner   Rainforest   Alliance,   an   
international   non-profit   organization,   to   assess   our   supply   network   for   paper   based   materials.   We   are   also   
actively   working   with   our   suppliers   to   leverage   our   longstanding   strategy   to   increase   the   volume   of   certified   or   
recycled   pulp   and   paper-based   materials   each   year,   setting   a   goal   to   source   100   percent   by   the   end   of   2020.   
Our   partnership   with   Rainforest   Alliance   helps   us   engage   with   our   suppliers   to   increase   the   use   of   certified   
materials,   giving   preference   to   suppliers   that   use   pulp   and   paper   compliant   with   Forest   Stewardship   Council   
(FSC)   certification   standards.   Rainforest   Alliance   also   supports   mapping   our   supply   chain   to   identify   hot   spot   
areas,   which   present   the   highest   risk   to   our   business,   the   environment,   or   the   local   community.   
We   will   continue   partnering   with   our   suppliers   to   build   a   low-risk   global   supply   chain   that   meets   the   following   
criteria   for   pulp   and   paper:   
•   No   illegally   harvested   wood   
•   No   exploitation   of   people   or   local   communities   
•   No   deforestation   of   High   Conservation   Value   (HCV)   areas   
•   No   sourcing   wood   from   forests   that   were   converted   to   plantations   or   non-forest   use   after   December   31,   
2010   
In   addition,   we   have   taken   additional   steps   to   ensure   compliance   with   the   U.S.   Lacey   Act,   which   requires   all   
product   and   disposable   packaging   to   be   composed   of   legally   sourced   wood   or   other   plant-based   material.   
Pulp   and   Paper   Progress   
Our   partnership   with   Rainforest   Alliance   will   support   the   execution   of   our   responsible   sourcing   strategy   for   pulp   
and   paper   and   drive   transformation   in   our   supply   chain.   
As   part   of   the   work   plan   with   Rainforest   Alliance,   Colgate   is   focusing   first   on   the   following   pulp   and   paper   based   
materials:   
•   Paper-based   cartons   
75     
•   Corrugated   materials   for   shipping   
•   Paper-based   labels   
•   Corrugated   materials   for   displays   
•   Dryer   sheet   products   and   cleaning   wipes   
  
Due   to   the   complexity   in   the   pulp   and   paper   portfolio,   Colgate   will   prioritize   policy   implementation   with   the   
suppliers   of   these   products   representing   80   percent   of   the   spend,   with   a   long-term   goal   of   reaching   100   percent   
of   spend.   The   following   actions   were   identified   to   support   our   current   responsible   sourcing   strategy   for   pulp   and   
paper:   
•   Issued   a   commodity-specific   Policy   on   Responsible   and   Sustainable   Sourcing   of   Pulp   and   Paper   
•   Communicated   our   policy   to   our   direct   suppliers   
•   Map   pulp   and   paper   supply   chain   to   country   of   origin   to   identify   any   controversial   sources   and   drive   
actions   toward   policy   conformance   (Ongoing)   
•   Requested   information   on   traceability   to   the   mill   level   from   the   suppliers   that   represent   80%   of   our   spend   
•   Conduct   risk   assessment   analysis   to   determine   areas   of   focus   and   develop   a   roadmap   for   policy   
implementation,   with   the   support   of   Rainforest   Alliance   (Ongoing)   
•   Launched   second   phase   on   traceability   request,   focusing   on   the   suppliers   that   represent   20%   of   our   
spend  
•   Increased   awareness   of   policy   commitments   by   conducting   supplier   webinars   
•   Increased   awareness   of   policy   commitments   and   requirements   to   suppliers   by   conducting   webinars   for   
procurement   professionals   and   packaging   teams   
•   Purchase   increasing   volumes   of   certified   or   recycled   pulp-   and   paper-based   materials   each   year   with   a   
goal   to   source   100   percent   by   the   end   of   2020,   using   the   Forest   Stewardship   Council   and   other   
respected   certification   schemes   as   geography   and   availability   necessitate   (Ongoing)   
•   Included   pulp   and   paper   suppliers   in   our   (SRSA)   Supplier   Responsible   Sourcing   Assessment   program   
•   Incorporated   sustainability   and   responsible   sourcing   requirements   in   the   supplier   selection   criteria   and   
process   
76     
•   Report   and   communicate   performance   and   progress   against   policy   
See   List   of   Pulp   and   Paper   Suppliers   for   more   detail   
2.   Palm   Oil,   Palm   Kernel   Oil   and   Derivatives   
Palm   Oil,   Palm   Kernel   Oil   and   Derivatives   Approach   
Palm   oil   is   the   most   widely   produced   vegetable   oil   in   the   world   and   continues   to   grow   in   its   use,   replacing   other   
vegetable   oils.   More   than   85   percent   of   the   world’s   palm   oil   comes   from   Indonesia   and   Malaysia,   where   land   is   
sometimes   converted   from   forest   to   palm   plantations,   resulting   in   greenhouse   gas   emissions,   impacts   on   
biodiversity,   and   social   issues   linked   to   deforestation.   
Colgate   has   specific   commitments   to   source   palm   oil,   palm   kernel   oil   and   palm   derivatives   that   are   responsibly   
produced   and   that   can   be   traced   from   plantation   to   product.   As   we   strive   for   zero   deforestation   in   our   palm   oil   
operations   and   activities,   we   will   partner   with   stakeholders   and   our   suppliers   to   build   a   transparent   global   
supply   chain   that   meets   the   following   criteria:   
•   No   deforestation   of   High   Carbon   Stock   (HCS)   forest   
•   No   deforestation   of   High   Conservation   Value   (HCV)   areas   
•   No   use   of   fire   for   land   clearance   
•   No   new   development   on   peat   lands,   regardless   of   depth   
•   Reduction   of   greenhouse   gas   Emissions   
•   No   exploitation   of   people   or   local   communities   
  
With   The   Earthworm   Foundation   risk   assessment   analysis   and   collaboration,   Colgate   will   be   able   to   make  
informed   decisions   about   which   producing   suppliers   to   support   in   their   transformation   to   meet   our   standards,   
and   where   to   focus   efforts   to   contribute   to   supplier   assessments   and   training   to   have   a   positive,   tangible   impact   
on   the   practices   on   the   ground   within   Colgate’s   supply   chain.   Additionally,   Colgate   has   been   working   with   
NGOs   and   other   stakeholders   to   increase   our   transparency   and   traceability   of   palm   mills   in   our   supply   chain.   
We   now   disclose   the   mills   to   which   our   production   traces   back.    See   List-of-Mills   for   more   detail .   
Palm   Oil,   Palm   Kernel   Oil   and   Derivatives   Progress   
77     
Colgate   uses   palm   oil,   palm   kernel   oil   and   palm   oil   derivatives   in   some   of   our   soap   products,   toothpastes,   
antiperspirants,   deodorants,   and   household   cleaners.   
Our   palm   oil   responsible   sourcing   policy,   issued   in   July   2016,   addresses   the   key   requirements   for   our   suppliers   
to   build   global   supply   chains   that   meet   Colgate’s   palm   oil   policy   criteria.   Colgate   continues   working   in   
partnership   with   Earthworm   Foundation   to   move   the   palm   oil   responsible   sourcing   strategy   to   the   next   level   by  
executing   transformation   projects   and   engage   with   stakeholders   from   government,   civil   society,   and   palm   oil   
producers.   
Palm   Oil,   Palm   Kernel   Oil   and   Derivatives   Traceability   
Having   continued   visibility   to   palm   oil   mills   is   critical   for   Colgate   to   support   on-the-ground   supplier   
transformation   work,   assess   risk   in   the   supply   chain,   and   evaluate   the   progress   of   our   suppliers   in   achieving   
compliance   with   Colgate’s   Responsible   and   Sustainable   Sourcing   policy.   We   continue   working   with   our   
suppliers   to   expand   the   traceability   efforts   back   to   the   plantation   level.   
Palm   Oil   and   Palm   Kernel   Oil   Traceability   
For   the   second   half   of   2018,   Colgate   global   palm   oil/   palm   kernel   oil   traceability   to   the   mill   was   as   follows:   
Colgate   Global   Traceability   to   the   Mill   
The   percentages   in   the   table   reflect   the   percentage   of   palm   oil   and   palm   kernel   oil   for   each   purchasing   market   
that   can   be   traced   back   to   the   origin   mill.   
Overall,   we   can   identify   the   mill   sources   for   100   percent   of   our   palm   oil   supply   by   volume   and   97   percent   of   
Colgate’s   palm   kernel   oil   supply.   Identifying   the   mill   sources   for   our   palm   supply   enables   us   to   prioritize   
78   
  
upstream   suppliers   for   engagement   based   on   associated   risk.   It   also   allows   us   to   seek   further   information   and   
respond   if   stakeholder   concerns   arise   about   our   supply   chain.   It   is   also   a   critical   step   toward   our   goal   of  
achieving   full   traceability   to   the   plantation/source.   
We   continue   to   maintain   complete   traceability   to   the   mill,   and   we   request   updated   traceability   information   from   
our   palm   oil   and   palm   kernel   oil   suppliers   on   a   biannual   basis   to   maintain   visibility   into   our   supply   chains.     
Palm   Oil   Derivatives   Traceability   
Colgate’s   No   Deforestation   commitment   includes   the   source   of   the   palm   derivatives   that   Colgate   purchases   and   
uses   in   its   products.   Palm   derivative   supply   chains   are   multi-tiered   and   complex,   so   achieving   traceability   in   the   
derivatives   supply   chain   comes   with   challenges.   Earthworm   Foundation   supports   Colgate   on   this   journey   and   
helps   us   trace   back   to   the   mill   level,   following   the   Earthworm   Foundation’s   methodology.   
Many   of   Colgate’s   suppliers   act   as   first   importers   themselves,   and   so   the   current   focus   is   on   identifying   the   
origin   refiners   in   Colgate’s   supply   chain.   The   origin   refiners   will   have   visibility   into   the   mills   in   Colgate’s   supply   
base,   and   will   be   a   crucial   leverage   point   to   engage   their   supply   bases   on   transformation.   
Colgate   has   currently   achieved   60   percent   traceability   of   the   origin   refiners   in   its   supply   chain,   and   53   percent   
to   the   mill   level   for   our   derivatives   portion.   We   will   continue   to   work   with   our   derivatives   supplier   to   increase   the   
traceability   percentages   for   this   portion   of   its   supply.   
Colgate   2018   traceability   for   palm   derivatives   is   as   follows:   
Colgate   Global   Palm   Oil   Derivatives   Traceability   to   the   Mill   
  
We   continue   evaluating   our   palm   and   PKO   derivatives   suppliers’   responsible   sourcing   policies.   Colgate   will   
work   with   our   suppliers   to   ensure   that   they   have   developed   responsible   sourcing   policies   and   plans   that   align   
with   Colgate’s   own   policy,   or   will   demonstrate   to   Colgate   how   they   will   work   to   meet   our   policy   expectations.   
Through   this   work,   Colgate   is   an   important   catalyst   to   increase   the   transparency   of   supplier   companies   in   the   
oleochemical   industry.   
79   
  
Certification   
As   a   step   in   the   transformation   journey   toward   responsibly   sourced   palm   oils,   Colgate   is   procuring   certified   oils   
as   detailed   below.   
2018   Total   Company   Weighted   Average   Certified   Oil   Usage   
We   are   currently   sourcing   palm   oil   and   palm   kernel   oil   certified   by   Roundtable   on   Sustainable   Palm   Oil   (RSPO)   
and   Rainforest   Alliance.   We   continue   working   with   our   palm   and   PKO   derivatives   suppliers   to   increase   the   
usage   of   palm   oil   derivatives   that   are   physically   certified.   
Policy   Implementation   
Encouraging   transparency   and   traceability   is   only   one   aspect   of   Colgate’s   work   to   drive   change   upstream.   
Equally   important   is   our   work   to   understand   our   suppliers’   plans   and   existing   activities   geared   toward   
transformation   and   bringing   their   supply   base   into   compliance   with   Colgate’s   responsible   and   sustainable   
sourcing   policy.   
Colgate’s   policy   implementation   plan   activity   includes   understanding   suppliers’   progress   and   actions   toward   
meeting   Colgate’s   responsible   and   sustainable   palm   oil   sourcing   policy.   We   are   focused   on   the   development   of   
suppliers’   own   policies   and   commitments,   traceability   status,   grievance   process,   transparency,   and   verification   
activities.   The   approach   measures   the   supplier’s   performance   on   achieving   its   goals   to   close   the   gaps   identified   
and   promotes   a   better   understanding   of   the   challenges   each   supplier   has   as   well   as   identifying   opportunities   for   
improvements.   
Colgate’s   supplier   engagement   has   demonstrated   that   our   suppliers   are   currently   at   different   levels   of   
preparedness   to   meet   Colgate’s   policy   requirements.   Many   of   Colgate’s   suppliers   have   policies   that   match   
Colgate’s   policy   and   are   reporting   transparently   about   their   progress   toward   policy   implementation   on   
dashboards   or   through   regular   reports.   
80   
  
Colgate   will   continue   to   engage   our   suppliers   to   ensure   we   make   adequate   progress   toward   full   policy   
implementation.   Earthworm   Foundation   will   also   continue   to   support   Colgate’s   development   with   strategies   to   
meet   our   palm   oil   sourcing   requirements.  
Transformation   
With   risk   assessment   analysis   and   policy   implementation   activities,   Colgate   makes   informed   decisions   about   
which   producing   suppliers   and   regions   to   support   in   transformation.   This   direct   transformation   work   is   
supported   by   ongoing   monitoring   and   progress   management   of   Colgate   suppliers’   own   transformation   efforts.   
Earthworm   Foundation   and   Colgate   have   agreed   on   transformation   activities   that   Colgate   can   best   support,   
based   on   Colgate’s   palm   oil   supply   network,   identified   hot   spots   and   risks,   and   existing   transformation   work.   
During   the   current   transformation   work   plan,   we   continue   tackling   environmental   and   social   issues   at   scale   in   
Indonesia   through   the   ongoing   support   of   Earthworm’s   multi-stakeholder,   multicommodity   Priority   Areas   for   
Transformation   (APT)   initiative   and   mill   visits.   
During   2018   and   early   2019,   Colgate   partnered   with   Earthworm   Foundation   (EF)   to   facilitate   a   Support   for   
Transformation   (SFT)   project   with   a   cluster   of   four   mills   in   the   Nagan   Raya   regency   of   Aceh   Province,   Sumatra,   
Indonesia.   The   SFT   program   is   a   flexible   supplier   assistance   model   that   provides   training,   coaching,   support   for   
action   planning,   and   monitoring   over   a   six   to   12   month   period.   The   goal   of   the   program   is   to   empower   mills   to   
transform   environmental   and   social   practices   by   providing   tools   and   technical   support   to   address   priority   issues,   
tailored   to   the   needs   of   specific   mills.   From   participating   in   this   program,   suppliers   have   developed   action   plans   
focused   on   Health,   Safety   and   Environment;   mill   waste   management;   and   traceability.   EF   is   currently   
conducting   monitoring   and   facilitation   on   the   progress   of   the   mill   action   plans.   
In   Thailand,   we   continue   to   work   with   our   suppliers   to   build   internal   capabilities   and   Earthworm   Foundation   
continues   to   support   several   Thai-language   workshops   and   training   sessions   on   the   concept   of   responsible   
palm   oil   sourcing   and   practices   for   Colgate   suppliers.   
Through   our   partnership   with   Earthworm   Foundation,   we   started   to   fund   the   Centre   for   Social   Excellence   (CSE   
Indonesia),   a   training   initiative   focused   on   creating   an   enabling   environment   for   social   harmony   and   respect   for   
human   rights   in   regions   where   natural   resource   management   and   agricultural   production   take   place.   With   our   
support,   CSE   convened   a   multi-stakeholder   workshop   in   Aceh   Tamiang,   where   approximately   fifty   
representatives   from   over   two   dozen   local   and   national   government   offices,   palm   oil   companies,   communities,   
and   civil   society   organizations   discussed   land   use   planning   and   natural   resource   management.   The   workshop   
81     
focused   on   improving   stakeholders’   understanding   of   land   use   planning   issues   and   building   relationships   
between   local   actors.   This   event   is   helping   local   stakeholders   to   collaborate   more   effectively   in   a   province   with   
remarkable   biodiversity   and   natural   resources   that   are   vital   to   the   livelihoods   of   local   people   and   regional   
economic   development.   
We   continue   to   partner   with   our   key   strategic   suppliers   to   drive   changes   on   the   ground   and   transform   practices.   
In   collaboration   with   Wilmar,   Business   for   Social   Responsibility   (BSR)   and   several   palm   oil   buyers,   we   
continued   our   support   of   collective   actions   to   improve   working   conditions   and   livelihoods   of   workers   across   the   
wider   palm   oil   supply   chain   in   Indonesia.   This   transformation   project   included   a   series   of   workshops   to   heighten   
awareness   on   wages,   employment   contract   status   and   grievance   mechanisms   in   Indonesia.   
We   acknowledge   the   role   played   by   NGOs   in   bringing   to   light   the   unacceptable   labor   practices   of   one   of   our   
palm   suppliers   and   the   intensified   efforts   we   are   making   to   support   transformation   efforts   on   the   ground   on   our   
own   and   as   part   of   industry   consortiums.   We   do   not   use   forced   labor   within   our   own   operations,   and   we   will   
strive   to   eradicate   forced   labor   from   our   value   chains.   Colgate   believes   that   every   worker   should   have   freedom   
of   movement,   no   worker   should   pay   for   a   job   and   no   worker   should   be   indebted   or   coerced   to   work.   Moreover,   it   
is   Colgate’s   policy   not   to   work   with   any   supplier   or   contractor   known   to   operate   with   forced   labor.   In   line   with   the   
CGF’s   recently   announced   Social   Resolution   on   Forced   Labor,   Colgate   joins   CGF   in   acknowledging   the   broad   
societal   problem   of   modern   slavery   and   commitment   to   eradicate   forced   labor   from   supply/value   chains.   
   3.   Tallow   
Tallow,   a   cattle   byproduct,   is   a   key   ingredient   in   bar   soap   production.   Colgate   sources   tallow   from   suppliers   in   
North   America,   Latin   America,   and   Europe.   In   Brazil,   there   are   concerns   that   rising   demand   for   beef   as   a   food   
source   is   prompting   farmers   to   clear   parts   of   the   Amazon   rainforest   for   cattle   ranching.   
As   a   result,   we   mainly   focus   on   the   tallow   sourced   from   Brazil,   and   work   with   our   Brazilian   suppliers   to   
transform   practices   in   our   tallow   supply   chain.   We   require   our   suppliers   in   Brazil   to   meet   the   following   criteria:   
•   Certify   that   suppliers   follow   environmental   and   social   requirements   set   forth   by   the   Brazilian   Institute   of   
Environment   and   Renewable   Natural   Resources   
•   Confirm   that   their   operations   are   conducted   in   conformance   with   the   Minimum   Criteria   for   Industrial   Scale   
Cattle   Operations   in   the   Brazilian   Amazon   Biome,   which   aims   to   stop   deforestation   in   the   Brazilian   Amazon   
  
82     
In   addition,   we   started   to   implement   the   following   important   actions:   
•   Developed   a   risk   assessment   tool   to   evaluate   and   assess   the   sustainability   performance   of   100   percent   of   
our   tallow   suppliers   
•   Incorporated   sustainability   and   responsible   sourcing   requirements   in   the   supplier   selection   criteria   and   
process   
•   Included   Tallow   suppliers   in   our   Supplier   Responsible   Sourcing   Assessment   (SRSA)   program   
•   Certified   that   our   suppliers   operate   in   compliance   with   the   environmental   and   social   requirements   set   forth   
by   the   Brazilian   Institute   of   Environment   and   Renewable   Natural   Resources   (IBAMA)   
•   Confirmed   that   100   percent   of   our   suppliers’   operations   conform   with   the   Minimum   Criteria   for   Industrial   
Scale   Cattle   Operations   in   the   Brazilian   Amazon   
•   Exclude   suppliers   that   do   not   meet   our   policy   criteria   and   requirements   
•   Work   with   our   suppliers   on   verification   by   using   satellite   systems   to   proactively   address   issues   linked   to   
deforestation   and   assure   the   material   is   sourced   responsibly     
We   are   publishing   our   list   for   all   beef   tallow   suppliers.   This   snapshot   reflects   our   current   supply   network   refresh   
as   of   May   2019.    We   optimized   our   supply   network   to   only   source   from   suppliers   that   meet   our   policy   
requirements   and   operate   in   compliance   with   IBAMA   and   the   Cattle   Amazon   sourcing   criteria.   
  
83   
  
4.   Soy   
Colgate   uses   soy   and   soy   oil   as   ingredients   in   certain   products.   Colgate   currently   sources   these   materials   from   
the   United   States   and   South   America.   The   United   States,   Brazil,   and   Argentina   account   for   more   than   70   
percent   of   the   global   soy   supply.   In   Brazil,   soy   production   has   been   linked   to   deforestation   of   highly   biodiverse   
forest   regions,   and   its   cultivation   has   contributed   significantly   to   clearance   of   the   Amazon   forest,   the   Cerrado,   
the   Atlantic   Forest,   the   Gran   Chaco,   and   the   Chiquitano.  
We   are   committed   to   using   responsibly   and   sustainably   sourced   soy   products   from   South   America,   which   is   
considered   the   highest   risk   area   for   soy   products.   We   will   procure   soy   products   that   are   responsibly   and   
sustainably   sourced   and   are   certified   by   credible   certification   schemes,   including   Roundtable   for   Responsible   
Soy,   Proterra   or   equivalent   organizations   to   verify   that   the   soy   Colgate   sources   poses   a   low   risk   of   contributing   
to   deforestation.   
For   material   procured   in   Brazil,   our   primary   source,   we   use   soy   and   soy   oil   suppliers   that   are   in   compliance   with  
the   Brazil   Forest   Code,   including   registration   in   the   Rural   Environmental   Registry.   
We   completed   the   initial   mapping   of   our   indirect   volume   for   soy.   To   support   our   current   sourcing   strategy   for   
Soy   we   identified   the   following   critical   actions:   
•   Supported   efforts,   such   as   the   Soy   Moratorium,   that   help   minimize   deforestation   from   soy   expansion   and   
increase   transparency   in   the   soy   sector   
•   Completed   mapping   of   our   soy   footprint   for   Indirect   Soy,   following   CGF   and   RTRS   guidelines   
•   Work   with   our   suppliers   in   Brazil   and   any   other   high-risk   areas   to   assess   the   availability   of   soy   that   does   
not   contribute   to   deforestation   in   our   soy   supply   chain,   such   as   soy   certified   by   the   Roundtable   on   
Responsible   Soy   or   Proterra,   and   will   continue   to   increase   our   purchase   from   these   suppliers   (Ongoing)   
•   Increased   usage   of   certified   sources   to   100   percent,   for   the   volume   sourced   from   Brazil   
•   Incorporated   sustainability   and   responsible   sourcing   requirements   in   the   supplier   selection   criteria   and   
process   
•   Included   Soy   suppliers   in   our   (SRSA)   Supplier   Responsible   Sourcing   Assessment   program   
•   Joined   efforts   on   supporting   the   Cerrado   Manifesto   through   the   Consumer   Goods   Forum   (   CGF   ),   to   
minimize   deforestation   from   soy   expansion   in   Brazil   and   increase   transparency   in   the   soy   sector   
•   Began   a   partnership   with   Earthworm   Foundation   to   continue   the   traceability   work   back   to   the   origin,   risk   
assess   our   supply   chain   and   identify   transformation   opportunities   in   collaboration   with   our   suppliers   in   South   
America   
84     
It   is   Colgate’s   worldwide   policy   to   manufacture   and   market   our   products   and   operate   our   facilities   so   that   we   
conform   to,   and   often   exceed,   applicable   environmental   rules   and   regulations.   Our   environmental   standards,   
including   the   management   systems   standard,   define   environmental   performance   expectations   for   Colgate   
facilities.   All   Colgate   facilities   have   a   fully   implemented   Environmental   Occupational   Health   and   Safety   (EOHS)   
Management   System   covering   a   wide   range   of   categories,   including   energy,   water,   and   waste   management.   
Colgate’s   manufacturing   environmental   performance   goals   are   included   in   our   Global   Supply   Chain   annual   
objectives,   which   are   cascaded   to   site-level   facility   managers,   energy   managers,   and   EOHS   managers.   Colgate   
facilities   are   expected   to   self-assess   compliance   with   our   standards   and   local   regulations   every   18   months.   
Corporate   audits   are   conducted   every   three   to   five   years,   closure   progress   is   reported   quarterly,   and   verification   
audits   are   conducted   to   provide   closure   assurance.   
  
  
At   Colgate,   we   understand   the   potential   consequences   of   climate   change,   and   we   are   committed   to   acting   
responsibly   and   conscientiously   to   protect   people   and   the   environment   wherever   we   operate.   We   recognize   
that   businesses   and   their   suppliers,   customers,   and   consumers   have   a   vital   role   to   play   in   addressing   the   global   
issue   of   climate   change.   Climate   change   is   one   of   Colgate’s   key   sustainability   issues.   It   is   a   key   focus   for   our   
business   from   both   a   reputational   and   an   operational   standpoint.   Consumers,   non-governmental   organizations,   
and   other   external   stakeholders   expect   companies   to   do   their   part   to   mitigate   climate   change.   Reducing   our  
energy   use   and   greenhouse   gas   emissions   also   enables   Colgate   to   mitigate   costs.   Since   2002,   our   energy   
reduction   program   has   helped   us   avoid   more   than   $560   million   in   energy   costs.   Managing   the   risks   associated   
with   climatic   events,   such   as   storms   and   droughts,   is   also   important   to   ensure   the   continuity   of   our   own   
operations   and   that   of   our   supply   chain.   See   Climate   Resilience   for   more   information.   Our   approach   to   climate  
change   management   and   reporting   is   based   on   the   guidelines   of   the   GHG   Protocol,   covering   about   95   percent   
of   operations   and   sales   where   we   have   financial   control.   
  
  
85   Environmental   Management   
Our   Climate   Commitment     
Approach   
  
Key   elements   of   our   Climate   Strategy   include:   
Science-Based   Goals   
We   will   set   science-based   climate   goals   to   reduce   greenhouse   gas   emissions.   
Energy   Management   and   Investment   
We   will   continue   to   improve   our   global   energy   management   system   and   invest   in   planet-related   improvements   
via   our   manufacturing   capital   program.   
Low-Carbon   Energy   
We   will   promote   the   use   of   renewable   energy   and   support   the   development   of   low-carbon   energy   supply.   
Low-Carbon   Products   and   Supply   Chains   
We   will   quantify   greenhouse   gas   emissions   throughout   our   value   chain   and   focus   on   reducing   the   most   
significant   emissions.   Colgate   will   ensure   responsible   sourcing   of   the   forest   commodities   associated   with   
deforestation.   
86   
  
Climate   Resilience   
We   will   integrate   climate   resiliency   into   our   risk   management   process.   
Collaboration   and   Disclosure   
We   will   collaborate   with   stakeholders   to   demonstrate   business   leadership   on   climate.   We   are   also   committed   to   
transparency   and   will   publicly   disclose   our   climate   strategies   and   goals,   and   report   on   our   progress.   
In   2018,   Colgate   continued   working   with   Walmart’s   Project   Gigaton   to   support   their   goal   to   work   with   their   
suppliers   to   reduce   1   billion   metric   tons   of   greenhouse   gas   emissions   (GHG)   from   the   global   value   chain   by   
2030.   Through   Project   Gigatron,   Colgate   has   committed   to   GHG   goals   in   six   areas:   emissions,   energy,   waste,   
deforestation,   packaging,   and   product   use.   Colgate   reports   against   these   goals   annually.   
   Progress   
(1) Included   in   our   Science-Based   Climate   Goal,   approved   in   2017   by   the   Science-Based   Targets   Initiative   
(2) Based   on   an   estimated   median   value   in   emissions   associated   with   consumer   behavior,   relative   to   a   2016   
baseline   and   based   on   consumer   survey   results   from   2018.   
  
87   
  
SCIENCE-BASED   TARGETS   
Colgate   has   committed   to   reducing   absolute   Scope   1   and   2   GHG   emissions   from   manufacturing   by   25   percent   
from   2002   to   2020,   with   a   longer   term   goal   of   a   50   percent   reduction   by   2050.   As   a   way   to   reduce   our   most   
significant   Scope   3   GHG   emissions,   Colgate   also   commits   to   promoting   water   conservation   awareness   to   100   
percent   of   our   global   consumers,   reducing   emissions   associated   with   consumer   behavior   by   up   to   5   percent   
from   2016   to   2022,   and   increasing   the   recycled   content   of   our   packaging   to   50   percent   by   2020.   
  
As   part   of   our   strategy   to   track   and   reduce   GHG   emissions,   Colgate   also   tracks   direct   and   indirect   CO2,   or   
carbon   dioxide,   emissions   as   well   as   direct   nitrous   oxide,   sulfur   hexafluoride,   HFC   and   PFC   emissions.   We   
additionally   estimate   NOX,   or   nitric   oxide,   emissions   from   Colgate’s   North   American   and   European   car   fleets   and   
from   the   trucks   that   deliver   Hill’s   Pet   Nutrition   products   to   retail   customers   in   vehicles   that   are   controlled   by   
Colgate.   We   track   VOC   data   as   needed   to   comply   with   local   regulations.   
Energy   Management   and   Investment   
Colgate   has   a   longstanding   energy   reduction   program   that   has   helped   us   lower   GHG   emissions   and   energy   
use   intensity   as   well   as   increase   financial   savings.   Our   energy   management   system   is   modeled   after   the   U.S.   
EPA’s   ENERGY   STAR   program   and   is   implemented   globally.   In   2018,   Colgate   was   named   a   U.S.   EPA   
88   
  
ENERGY   STAR   Partner   of   the   Year   for   the   eighth   year   in   a   row,   recognized   specifically   for   Sustained   
Excellence.   
Key   elements   of   Colgate’s   energy   management   program   include:   
•    “Top   10”   Energy   Actions   
For   the   past   several   years,   as   a   way   to   help   our   global   sites   prioritize   the   most   effective   energy   reduction   
activities,   we   have   used   our   Top   10   Energy   Actions   program.   Implemented   over   two-year   increments,   this   
program   tracks   progress   against   our   ten   best   global   energy   reduction   opportunities. 
  
•    5%   for   the   Planet   
In   2011,   Colgate   implemented   a   program   to   set   an   annual   capital   expenditure   budget   as   a   way   to   drive   
investment   in   environmental   sustainability   projects   across   our   global   manufacturing   sites.   Our   “5%   for   the   
Planet”   program   helps   ensure   that   sites   identify,   fund   and   implement   climate,   energy,   water,   and   waste   
projects   that   drive   both   environmental   improvement   and   cost   savings.   The   program   sets   an   annual   goal   to   
invest   a   minimum   of   five   percent   of   our   manufacturing   capital   expenditure   budget   on   energy   reduction,   
water   conservation,   and   reduction   of   waste   to   landfill.   Upgrades   for   environmental   compliance   and   product   
design   are   funded   separately.   A   minimum   of   two   percent   of   the   manufacturing   capital   budget   is   targeted   
specifically   toward   energy   reduction   projects.   Since   inception,   Colgate   has   invested   more   than   $235   million   
in   more   than   1,250   planet   projects,   delivering   an   estimated   savings   of   more   than   $59   million.   
  
To   date,   U.S.   EPA   ENERGY   STAR   has   issued   70   Challenge   for   Industry   
site   recognitions   to   Colgate   facilities   worldwide.   
  
•   Energy   Treasure   Hunt   Program   
We   engage   people   across   Colgate’s   operations   through   participation   in   the   Energy   Treasure   Hunt   program.   
Over   a   three-day   period,   30   to   50   participants   visit   all   areas   of   a   facility,   searching   for   energy   waste   and   
brainstorming   opportunities   to   drive   continuous   improvement.     
  
  
89   
  
In   2018,   Energy   Treasure   Hunts   were   completed   at   Colgate   facilities   in   the   United   States,   Italy,   Mexico,   and   
France.   
  
In   2018,   our   facility   in   Rillieux,   France,   completed   its   first   Energy   
Treasury   Hunt.   Approximately   35   people   participated   and   identified   over   
60   energy   reduction   opportunities.   
  
  
  
Our   facility   in   Anzio,   Italy,   completed   its   second   Energy   Treasure   Hunt   in   
2018.   They   identified   37   energy   reduction   opportunities,   with   over   
one-third   estimated   to   have   no   more   than   a   one-year   payback.   
  
  
  
•   Global   Energy   Reduction   Team   
Colgate’s   Global   Energy   Reduction   Team   leads   the   technical   implementation   of   Colgate’s   energy   strategy   in   
our   manufacturing   sites   by   setting   annual   objectives   and   developing   tools   and   programs   to   help   our   sites   
reach   their   energy   reduction   targets.   This   cross-functional   global   team   is   composed   of   individuals   with   
expertise   and   passion   for   reducing   Colgate’s   energy   use   and   GHG   emissions.   For   16   years,   the   Global   
Energy   Reduction   Team   has   continued   to   focus   on   supporting   our   plants   with   many   tools,   activities,   and   
initiatives.   For   example,   in   2018,   the   team   worked   on   creating   generic   “Energy   Start/Stop   Standard   Work   
Instructions,”   developing   a   list   of   key   items   to   look   for   during   Energy   Treasure   Hunts,   gathering   and   sharing   
examples   of   innovative   energy   technologies   and   supporting   the   implementation   of   Ecolab’s   3D   Trasar   
technology   at   multiple   facilities.   
  
  
  
  
90   
  
Energy   Intensity   Goal   
Colgate’s   2020   goal   is   to   reduce   the   energy   intensity   of   manufacturing   our   products   by   one-third   
compared   to   2002.   As   of   2018,   our   global   energy   programs   have   resulted   in   the   reduction   of   energy   per   
ton   of   products   by   31.8   percent.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Low-Carbon   Energy     
  
As   part   of   our   strategy   to   achieve   a   25   percent   absolute   reduction   in   GHG   by   2020,   we   are   working   to   promote   
the   use   of   renewable   energy   and   support   the   development   of   a   low-carbon   energy   supply.   
  
As   a   way   to   further   develop   our   balanced   approach   to   renewable   energy,   Colgate   developed   a   Renewable   
Energy   Roadmap,   which   helps   the   company   identify   and   prioritize   renewable   energy   opportunities   at   our   facilities   
around   the   world.   In   2018,   Colgate   implemented   two   additional   onsite   solar   energy   projects,   one   in   Burlington,   
N.J.   and   one   in   Sri   City,   India,   each   generating   2   Megawatts   of   electricity.   
  
  
  
91   
  
  
In   pursuit   of   the   site’s   net   Zero   goal   (zero   waste,   
zero   water,   zero   carbon),   our   Burlington   plant   
recently   installed   solar   panels.   The   plant   has   also   
received   LEED   Silver   certification   for   its   new   
warehouse   and   is   working   towards   becoming   a   
TRUE   zero   waste   certified   site.   
  
  
Colgate   has   been   a   U.S.   EPA   Green   Power   Partner   since   2014,   supporting   the   voluntary   use   of   green   power   to   
reduce   the   environmental   effects   associated   with   conventional   electricity   use.   In   2018,   Colgate   purchased   
220,000   MWh   of   Green-e   certified   wind   power   renewable   energy   certificates   generated   from   wind   power   farms   
located   in   Kansas.   This   green   power   purchase   was   recognized   by   the   U.S.   EPA   Green   Power   Partnership   
Leadership   Club,   achieving   the   rank   of   No.   50   in   the   United   States.   The   purchase   cost   of   green   power   is   
allocated   back   to   our   facilities   in   proportion   to   their   carbon   emissions   as   a   way   to   help   assign   a   cost-of-carbon   
to   its   source.   
Improving   Refrigerants   
Although   Colgate   uses   only   a   small   quantity   of   refrigerants   in   our   air   conditioning   and   chilled   water   systems,   we   
continue   to   take   steps   to   minimize   refrigerant   losses   and   transition   to   lower   global   warming   potential   
refrigerants   over   time.   Colgate   has   aligned   with   the   Consumer   Goods   Forum’s   resolution   on   refrigerants,   which   
calls   on   Food   and   Beverage   supply   chains   to   phase   out   hydrofluorocarbons.   Although   Colgate   is   not   in   the   
Food   and   Beverage   sector,   we   have   proactively   aligned   our   global   refrigerant   standard   to   meet   the   intent   of   the   
CGF’s   resolution   as   a   way   to   support   these   efforts.   In   addition,   we   developed   an   associated   e-learning   training   
tool   to   assist   our   global   facilities   in   transitioning   toward   less   carbon-intensive   refrigerants.   
Low-Carbon   Products   and   Supply   Chain   
Each   year,   Colgate   works   to   assess   the   carbon   consequences   and   opportunities   across   our   value   chain.   We   
have   expanded   our   knowledge   into   areas   beyond   our   own   direct   energy   (Scope   1   emissions)   and   indirect   
92   
  
electricity   (Scope   2   emissions)   to   include   areas   such   as   raw   material   procurement,   transportation   and   logistics,   
business   travel,   waste,   employee   commuting,   consumer   use   of   products,   and   product   end-of-life.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Low-Carbon   Products   
  
The   predominance   of   our   GHG   emissions   is   
associated   with   the   consumer   use   of   our   
products.   Our   category   GHG   footprint   indicates   
that   the   impact   of   brushing,   showering,   washing   
hands,   and   washing   dishes   differs   greatly.   
  
  
To   reduce   GHG   emissions   associated   with   our   products   we   are   focused   on:   
•   Raising   consumer   awareness   of   water   conservation   
•   Designing   products   that   allow   consumers   to   use   less   water   or   temperate   water   
•   Designing   packages   that   can   be   recycled   
  
93   
  
Low-Carbon   Supply   Chain   
We   are   also   focused   on   GHG   emissions   in   our   supply   chain.   To   reduce   these   emissions   we   are   focused   on:   
•   Supplier   engagement   
•   Carbon-intensive   materials   
•   No   deforestation   
•   Sustainable   and   efficient   logistics   
  
Supplier   Engagement   
We   request   that   our   key   Tier   I   suppliers   and   suppliers   of   carbon-intensive   materials   participate   in   the   CDP  
Supply   Chain   Program   Climate   Disclosure   to   help   us   understand   and   address   climate   effects   and   associated   
risks   and   opportunities   in   our   upstream   supply   chain.   In   2018,   more   than   48   percent   of   our   Tier   I   suppliers   
responded   to   the   survey,   including   our   largest   raw   material   suppliers   and   contract   manufacturers.   We   achieved   
82   percent   supplier   participation.   
  
Carbon-Intensive   Materials   
We   have   identified   the   oral   care,   personal   care,   and   home   care   raw   and   packaging   materials   that   have   the   
highest   carbon   footprint.   This   information   has   been   shared   with   our   Research   &   Development   and   Procurement   
teams   to   help   them   identify   and   prioritize   opportunities   through   material   and   supplier   choices   without   negatively   
affecting   consumer   experience,   quality,   or   cost.   
  
No   Deforestation   
We   also   recognize   that   deforestation   and   forest   degradation   contribute   significantly   to   the   release   of   GHG.   Our   
No   Deforestation   policy   commits   to   sourcing   forest   commodity   materials   responsibly   and   sustainably   by   2020.   
See    Our   Commitment   to   No   Deforestation    for   more   details   on   Colgate’s   progress   on   policy   implementation.   
  
  
  
94     
Sustainable   and   Efficient   Logistics   
Customer   Service   and   Logistics   teams   at   Colgate   continue   to   focus   on   sustainable   and   efficient   logistics   
initiatives   around   the   world.   Through   these   efforts,   we   are   reducing   costs   as   well   as   our   carbon   footprint,   all   
while   improving   customer   service.   
Our   sustainable   and   efficient   logistics   efforts   in   2018   included   initiatives   such   as:   
•   Load   Optimization:    Through   the   use   of   SAP   Transportation   Management—a   tool   currently   in   place   in   Canada,   
the   United   States,   Mexico,   Brazil   and   Vietnam—we   are   automatically   planning   shipments   to   their   optimal   
capacity.   This   has   led   to   more   efficient   load   planning   and   minimization   of   the   number   of   shipments   to   deliver   our   
products   in   a   timely   fashion.   In   2019,   we   will   be   rolling   out   this   technology   for   Hill’s   exports,   which   will   continue   to   
drive   freight   planning   efficiencies.   
•   Route   Optimization:    By   analyzing   trends   in   lane   level   detail,   using   internal   tools   and   partnering   with   third   
parties,   we   are   identifying   transport   solutions   aimed   at   reducing   transit   time,   emissions,   and   costs.   
•   Distribution   Network   Optimization :   By   using   a   customer   location   study,   which   reorganizes   the   freight   to   
customers   through   a   buffer   warehouse   and/or   new   warehouse   location,   we   reduce   costs,   better   serve   our   
customers,   and   reduce   our   carbon   footprint.   
•   Co-Loading   Trailers:    Colgate   is   working   to   minimize   the   number   of   trucks   on   the   road   by   co-loading   trailers   
with   other   companies.   This   creative   freight   load-sharing   program   enables   us   to   minimize   the   number   of   our   trucks   
on   the   road   as   well   as   wasted   space   in   our   trailers.   
•   Improving   Vehicle   Fuel   Efficiency :   Our   logistics   providers   are   upgrading   their   fleets   to   include   more   
aerodynamic   and   efficient   vehicles,   resulting   in   improved   fuel   efficiency.   
•   Intermodal   Shipping:    We   are   using   intermodal   shipping   globally   to   drive   reductions   in   CO2   emissions,   diesel   
consumption,   and   cost.   Hill’s   has   been   a   prime   example   of   our   commitment   to   this   initiative   and   has   reached   100   
percent   utilization   on   lanes   set   up   for   transport   by   rail   two   years   in   a   row.   
  
Climate   Resilience   
  
Colgate   has   a   long-standing   operations   risk   management   process   that   includes   managing   the   effects   of   episodic   
climatic   events,   such   as   storms,   floods,   droughts,   and   temperature   extremes,   to   our   facilities   and   supply   chain.   
95     
Climate   risk   is   defined   as   part   of   the   operational,   regulatory,   and   reputational   and   market   risks;   therefore,   Colgate   
is   committed   to   developing   a   long-term   strategy   to   mitigate   risks   from   climatic   events.   As   part   of   this   process,   we   
assess   potential   climate   vulnerabilities   and   risks   to   ensure   our   business   is   able   to   respond   and   recover   from   
climatic   events.   As   part   of   our   loss-prevention   program,   our   strategic   manufacturing   sites   are   mandated   to   be   
highly   protected   against   risks.   Third-party   assessments   on   property   loss   control   are   conducted   annually   for   all   
strategic   sites.   Additionally,   we   develop   and   routinely   update   category   contingency   product   sourcing   plans.   In   
2018,   Colgate   hosted   an   Environmental   Defense   Fund   (EDF)   Climate   Corps   fellow   who   helped   Colgate   analyze   
energy   reduction   opportunities   at   our   global   manufacturing   facilities   to   incorporate   into   our   next   generation   “Top   
10   Energy   Actions.”   The   project’s   aim   was   to   determine   what   types   of   technologies   and   activities   a   facility   might   
need   to   decrease   its   dependence   on   externally   supplied   energy,   thus   increasing   its   resiliency   to   potential   climate   
impacts.   
  
Collaboration   and   Disclosure    Colgate   is   committed   to   transparency   and   has   reported   publicly   on   our   carbon   
and   energy   reduction   performance   since   2004.   Through   these   disclosures,   we   report   on   financial,   regulatory,   
physical,   and   reputational   risks   as   well   as   savings   associated   with   eco-efficiency.   In   2018,   we   continued   to   
collaborate   with   a   variety   of   stakeholders   and   engaged   with   leading   organizations   to   inform   our   climate   strategy   
and   drive   continuous   improvement   on   a   broader   basis.   
  
●Further   details   of   our   risk   management   strategies   related   to   climate   change,   water   availability,   and   
forest   commodity   risk   can   be   found   in   our   response   to   CDP’s   annual   climate   change,   water,   and   
forest   surveys.   Please   go   to   our    Reporting    for   more   details.   
  
  
●Colgate   Quantifying   Scope   3   emissions   and   goals   
  
  
●Colgate   was   recognized   as   a   U.S.   EPA   ENERGY   STAR   Partner   of   the   Year   for   the   eighth   year   in   
early   2018   
  
●U.S.   EPA’s   Green   Power   Partnership   National   Top   100   List   
  
●Global   LEED   commitment   for   new   construction   of   all   owned   facilities   
  
96   
  
Water   is   an   ingredient   in   many   Colgate   products   and   required   in   almost   every   phase   of   the   product   lifecycle.   
Clean   water   is   also   vital   to   the   communities   we   serve,   yet   it   is   becoming   an   increasingly   scarce   resource   in   
many   regions   of   the   world.   Additionally,   other   related   issues   such   as   flooding   threaten   to   have   negative   
consequences   on   our   supply   chains   and   the   delivery   of   raw   materials   and,   as   well   as   the   finished   goods   to   
customers.   
  Water   Stewardship   is   one   of   our   Key   Sustainability   Issues.    These   challenges   define   the   boundaries   of   
Colgate’s   Water   Stewardship   Strategy,   which   covers   the   following   areas   where   we   have   the   opportunity   to   
manage   impact   and   create   a   better   environment   for   communities:   Direct   Operations,   Supply   Chain,   Consumer   
Use,   Water   and   Sanitation   Access,   Ecosystem   Protection,   and   Collaboration   and   Disclosure.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Key   elements   of   our   Water   Stewardship   Commitment   include:   
Direct   Operations   
We   will   continue   to   invest   in   water   conservation   and   assess   water   risks   associated   with   our   global   operations.   
We   will   replenish   water   in   highly   stressed   regions   and   manage   our   wastewater   appropriately.   
Supply   Chain   Management   
We   will   increase   supplier   participation   in   our   water   stewardship   program   to   identify   opportunities   and   mitigate   
water   risks.   
97   Making   Every   Drop   of   Water   Count   
  
Consumer   Use   
We   will   strive   to   develop   innovative   products   that   enable   consumers   to   use   less   water   while   meeting   or   
exceeding   their   expectations.   Colgate   will   also   promote   water   conservation   awareness   to   our   global   
consumers.   
Water   and   Sanitation   Access   
We   respect   the   human   right   to   water,   sanitation,   and   hygiene.   We   will   partner   with   local   and   global   
organizations   to   offer   clean   water   to   underserved   areas   around   the   world.   We   will   also   provide   health   and   
hygiene   education   in   our   communities.   
Ecosystem   Protection   
Colgate   will   continue   to   work   to   protect   water-related   ecosystems   through   our   commitment   to   No   Deforestation,   
water   replenishment,   aquifer   protection,   wastewater   treatment,   and   community   partnerships.   In   the   U.S.,   
Colgate   continues   to   support   Nature   Conservancy   in   its   mission   to   protect   and   restore   the   health   of   rivers,   
lakes,   wetlands,   and   forests   as   well   as   to   educate   consumers   about   the   importance   of   clean,   accessible   water   
for   people   and   nature.   This   includes   helping   to   protect   bodies   of   water   like   the   Delaware   River   Basin   (a   clean   
water   source   to   nearly   20   million   Americans)   by   combating   nutrient   runoff   and   sedimentation   through   riparian   
restoration   and   the   Sierra   Nevada   (the   source   of   65   percent   of   California’s   water   supply),   where   Nature   
Conservancy   is   working   to   conserve   50,000   acres   of   critical   land   to   act   as   a   natural   reservoir   for   clear   mountain   
streams.  
Collaboration   and   Disclosure   
We   will   partner   with   stakeholders   and   our   communities   to   help   drive   water   stewardship   programs.   We   are   
committed   to   transparency   and   will   publicly   disclose   our   water   stewardship   strategies   and   goals,   and   report   on   
our   progress.   
As   a   way   to   inform   our   water   stewardship   efforts,   Colgate   engages   with   leading   water   experts.   This   
collaboration   helps   build   expertise,   align   efforts   and   ensure   our   water   programs   meet   stakeholder   expectations.   
98     
  
Our   Water   Footprint   
Colgate’s   water   use   footprint   consists   of   the   water   used   by   our   suppliers   to   produce   the   raw   and   packaging   
materials   we   purchase,   the   water   used   by   our   facilities   to   manufacture   our   products,   and   the   water   associated   
with   the   consumer   use   of   our   products.   
  Although   we   continue   to   focus   on   reducing   the   water   
used   in   our   own   operations,   increasingly   we   are   making   
efforts   to   help   manage   water   use   along   each   step   of   our   
value   chain.   The   results   of   our   ongoing   water   footprint   
exercises   have   helped   quantify   the   opportunity   to   have   a   
positive   water   impact   beyond   our   own   operations.   
  
  
  
  
99   
  
Direct   Operations   
Colgate   has   had   manufacturing   water   conservation   goals   since   2002,   and   since   then   we   have   reduced   the   
water   consumed   per   unit   of   production   in   the   manufacture   of   our   products   by   nearly   46   percent. 1    Our   goal   is   to   
reduce   our   manufacturing   water   intensity   by   half   compared   to   2002   and   to   find   ways   to   replenish   water   
withdrawn   in   highly   stressed   regions. (1) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
(1)Excluding   water   in   products.   
(2)Subject   to   final   verification   by   a   third-party   auditor .   
Key   elements   of   our   program   include:   
•   5%   for   the   Planet   
Colgate   invests   in   water   conservation   strategies   at   our   global   facilities   through   our   manufacturing   capital   
expenditure   program,   5%   for   the   Planet,   and   by   implementing   our   Water   Stewardship   Strategy.   A   minimum   
of   one   percent   of   the   manufacturing   capital   expenditure   budget   is   targeted   specifically   toward   water   
conservation   projects.   
•   True   Cost   of   Water   
Colgate’s   True   Cost   of   Water   Toolkit,   developed   with   Rutgers   University   Business   School’s   Supply   Chain   
Management   Program,   is   a   manufacturing-based   tool   designed   to   help   sites   quantify   some   of   the   hidden   
costs   of   water,   such   as   pretreatment,   pumping,   and   wastewater   treatment,   thereby   increasing   both   
economic   and   environmental   opportunities   for   reduction.  
100   
  
•   Water   Stewardship   Standard   
Colgate’s   global   Water   Stewardship   Strategy   is   intended   to   help   ensure   that   all   of   our   manufacturing   
facilities   and   technology   centers   develop   responsible   and   appropriate   programs   to   ensure   that   water-related   
risks   are   understood   and   managed,   and   that   water   conservation   opportunities   are   continuously   evaluated   
and   implemented   in   support   of   Colgate’s   environmental   and   sustainability   goals.   Water   Stewardship   
Strategy   expectations   vary   by   the   level   of   geographic   water   stress.   
  
Spotlight   -   Technology   helps   Save   Water   and   Drive   Sustainability   in   Colgate   Mexico   
In   support   of   their   local   sustainability   efforts,   Colgate’s   Mission   Hills   manufacturing   facility   in   Guanajuato   
Estate,   Mexico   enlisted   Ecolab,   a   global   leader   in   water,   hygiene   and   energy   technologies   and   services,   
to   help   improve   the   efficiency   and   sustainability   of   its   cleaning   and   sanitizing   process.   Colgate’s   Mission   
Hills   plant   is   one   of   the   world’s   largest   toothpaste   plants.   It   also   produces   home   care,   deodorant   and   
dish   and   bar   soaps.   
With   a   strong   culture   of   sustainability,   the   Mission   Hills   plant   is   a   zero   liquid   discharge   site   that   recycles   
its   treated   wastewater   for   use   in   the   plant’s   utilities   and   landscaping.   Prior   to   working   with   Ecolab,   
cleaning   and   sanitizing   the   plant   was   a   manual,   hot   water-only   process   that   consumed   significant   time,   
water,   and   energy.   
Ecolab   brought   new   solutions   to   the   Mission   Hills   plant’s   eight   manufacturing   lines.   One   of   these,   an   
Ecolab   detergent,   removes   a   wide   array   of   stubborn   processing   residues   from   production   equipment.   
The   other,   an   Ecolab   sanitizer,   provides   one-step   sanitizing   with   the   potential   to   eliminate   a   final   water   
rinse.   Together,   they   led   to:   
•   Substantial   reductions   in   cleaning   times   
•   Elimination   of   manual   washes   
•   Improved   cleaning   reliability   and   product   quality   assurance   
•   Significant   savings   in   time,   water   and   energy   use   
•   Reductions   in   CO2   emissions   
  
  
101     
Water   Replenishment   
In   regions   with   high   water   stress,   we   continue   to   assess   water   risks   and   implement   appropriate   resiliency   
measures   as   a   way   to   anticipate   and   mitigate   the   effects.   In   2015,   Colgate   developed   a   framework   project   to   
create   replenishment   criteria,   define   geographical   boundaries   and   identify   both   environmental   and   
community-related   options   to   meet   our   commitment   to   replenish   water   in   highly   stressed   regions.   
Subsequently,   we   leveraged   this   project’s   output   by   piloting   the   overall   replenishment   approach   for   our   
manufacturing   sites   in   India.   Through   this   work,   we   identified   future   opportunities   to   maximize   on-site   water   
reduction   by   increasing   rainwater   harvesting   and   community   water   projects.   In   2018,   we   estimated   our   water   
replenishment   to   be   approximately   71   percent   at   our   manufacturing   facilities   in   India.   
Supply   Chain   Management   
We   continue   to   address   supply   chain   water   risks   in   several   ways.   We   are   increasing   supplier   engagement   in   
our   Water   Stewardship   Strategy   by   participating   in   programs   such   as   the   CDP   Supply   Chain   Program.   
Additionally,   we   are   helping   our   product   developers   and   procurement   teams   understand   and   identify   our   most   
water-intensive   raw   and   packaging   materials.   
We   requested   several   of   our   Tier   I   suppliers   and   suppliers   of   water-intensive   materials   to   participate   in   the   CDP   
Supply   Chain   Program   Water   Disclosure   to   help   us   understand   and   address   water   consequences   and   
associated   risks   and   opportunities   in   our   upstream   supply   chain.   In   2018,   48   percent   of   our   Tier   I   suppliers   
responded   to   the   survey,   including   our   largest   raw   material   suppliers   and   contract   manufacturers.   Overall   we   
achieved   82   percent   supplier   participation.   
To   help   reduce   the   water   associated   with   the   production   of   raw   materials,   we   are   working   to   identify   the   most   
water-intensive   materials   in   each   of   our   product   categories.   With   this   information,   we   are   able   to   engage   our   
suppliers   to   better   assess   where   there   are   opportunities   to   reduce   the   water   footprint   of   our   products   through   
feedstock   choices   and   conversion   efficiency,   particularly   in   markets   under   high   water   stress.   
Colgate   engaged   with   the   Mint   Industry   Research   Council   (MIRC)   on   water   efficiency   and   stewardship   
opportunities.   MIRC   invited   Colgate   to   present   our   Water   Stewardship   Strategy   at   their   annual   meeting   to   help   
drive   the   sustainable   use   of   water   throughout   the   mint   grower   industry.   In   2018,   we   collaborated   with   MIRC   to   
gather   and   analyze   data   from   mint   suppliers   to   better   understand   the   climate   and   water   challenges   across   
North   America   and   share   the   insights   with   the   industry.   
102     
Our   Products   
Colgate   understands   that   the   water   required   to   use   our   products   represents   the   largest   portion   of   our   overall   
water   footprint.   To   that   end,   water   scarcity   is   an   opportunity   for   innovation,   and   we   are   working   to   develop   
products   that   allow   consumers   to   use   less   water.   Colgate’s   portfolio   includes   a   number   of   products   that   allow   
consumers   to   use   less   water.   
  
Suavitel   3X   Fabric   Softener   -   Colombia   
Our   3X   concentrated   fabric   softener   has   an   improved   ingredient   sustainability   profile,   
requires   less   water,   and   generates   less   waste   in   the   manufacturing   process.   The   
product-to-packaging   ratio   was   improved,   saving   materials   and   reducing   greenhouse   gas   
emissions   associated   with   the   movement   of   finished   goods.   
  
Water   Conservation   Awareness   
To   help   consumers   conserve   water   as   they   use   our   products,   Colgate   seeks   to   
promote   water   conservation   awareness   to   all   our   global   consumers.   In   2018,   
Colgate   continued   to   expand   our   Save   Water   campaign   globally   with   messaging   
around   World   Water   Day   on   March   22   and   beyond.   
On   World   Water   Day   in   2018,   our   videos,   messages,   and   in-store   activations   to   make   every   drop   of   water   count   
went   live   in   more   than   70   countries   around   the   world.   All   our   divisions   engaged   Colgate   People   around   the   
world   regardless   of   office   size   or   location   on   World   Water   Day,   inviting   them   to   take   a   Save   Water   pledge   and   
spread   the   word   about   water   conservation.   Some   locations   also   held   events   with   guest   speakers   and   or   
employees   volunteered   in   the   local   community.   The   Save   Water   message   already   appears   on   our   toothpaste   
and   toothbrush   packaging.   Thanks   to   the   ongoing   efforts   of   Colgate   People   around   the   world,   we   are   helping   
drive   greater   awareness   of   water   issues—on   World   Water   Day   and   every   day—among   consumers,   customers   
and   fellow   Colgate   People.   
  
  
103   
  
2018   Highlights   
•   In   Turkey,   we   promoted   World   Water   Day   by   engaging   people   with   a   fun   and   unique    on-the-spot   challenge   
to   Save   Water,   reaching   2.8   million   people.   
•   Colgate’s   Save   Water   campaign   reached   over   four   billion   people   in   2018   with   the   “Turn   Off   the   Faucet”   
message.   In   2018   Colgate   also   sponsored   ultra-runner   Mina   Guli,   who   committed   to   running   100   marathons   
in   100   days   to   raise   awareness   about   our   planet's   water   crisis   as   part   of   the   #RunningDry   movement.   
•   Colgate   launched   the   Save   Water   campaign   in   2016   with   a   turn-off-the-faucet-while-brushing”   message   
and   has   reached   nearly   three   billion   people   worldwide.   Our   campaign   continues   to   increase   consumer   
awareness   through   messaging   on   our   packaging,   online   and   in   stores.   According   to   a   global   consumer   
survey,   the   impact   of   this   campaign   on   consumer   behavior   has   contributed   to   an   estimated   reduction   of   53   
billion   gallons   of   water.   
•   In   celebration   of   World   Water   Day,   Colgate   India   joined   the   country’s   leading   organized   wholesaler,   
METRO   Cash   &   Carry,   for   a   month-long   “Save   Water”   Awareness   program.   This   is   the   second   year   of   the   
partnership   surrounding   the   Save   Water   program.   Throughout   the   month   of   April,   a   portion   of   the   purchase   
of   select   SKUs   from   any   of   the   27   Metro   stores   across   the   country   will   be   donated   to   Colgate’s   NGO   partner   
Water   for   People   -   India   Trust.   Water   For   People   will   use   this   contribution   to   support   the   accessibility   of   
water   in   local   communities.   
•   In   2018,   Colgate   India,   in   partnership   with   Water   For   People   India   
Trust,   launched   its   Amravati   Water   initiative   in   the   villages   of   Amravati   
District   of   Maharashtra.   This   expansion   of   Colgate’s   partnership   with   
Water   For   People   continues   as   a   result   of   their   successful   collaboration   
in   Bihar   and   West   Bengal,   since   2013.   This   program   supports   the   
availability,   accessibility,   and   quality   of   water.   It   also   helps   build   
awareness   about   water,   sanitation,   and   hygiene   (WASH).   Rain   water   harvesting   will   be   explored   in   select   
schools   to   help   the   availability   of   water   for   sanitation.   Key   components   of   the   program   are   to   ensure   the   
continued   operation   and   maintenance   of   water   facilities.   The   program   aims   to   support   projected   cumulative   
coverage   to   approximately   36   villages   by   2022.   Collaborations   and   engagement   with   local   communities,   
local   and   district   level   government   authorities   and   stakeholders   will   play   a   vital   role   in   building   the   
infrastructure,   operation   and   maintenance   of   water   facilities   and   ownership.   
104   
  
•   As   part   of   Climate   Week   NYC   2018,   Vance   Merolla,   Worldwide   Director   of   Sustainability,   and   JoAnne   
Murphy,   Director   of   Shopper   Marketing,   U.S.,   shared   how   Colgate’s   ongoing   consumer   campaign   to   save   
water   is   conserving   a   precious   resource   while   also   reducing   global   greenhouse   gas   emissions.   
   Water   and   Sanitation   Access   
Colgate   respects   the   human   right   to   water,   sanitation   and   hygiene.   One   of   Colgate’s   2020   Sustainability   
Strategy   goals   is   to   work   with   local   and   global   organizations   to   help   promote   access   to   clean   water.   We   also   
provide   health   and   hygiene   education   in   communities   around   the   world.   As   part   of   Colgate’s   Water   Stewardship   
Strategy,   we   work   with   local   and   global   organizations   to   help   promote   access   to   clean   water   while   providing   
health   and   hygiene   education   in   communities.   In   that   spirit,   Colgate   is   proud   to   continue   our   commitment   to   
support   water,   sanitation   and   hygiene   (WASH)   programming   through   our   partnership   with   Water   For   People   as   
they   pursue   their   mission   to   reach   Everyone—   Forever   with   WASH   services   across   Guatemala,   India,   and   
Peru.   From   2013   through   2018,   Colgate’s   total   support   of   more   than   $1.6   million   has   helped   more   than   287,000   
people   in   communities   and   152,291   people   in   public   institutions   gain   access   to   services,   more   than   200,000   
people   gain   access   to   a   toilet,   and   more   than   400,000   people   learn   about   proper   hygiene.   
In   2018,   Colgate   continued   our   partnership   with   Water   For   People   to   strengthen   and   support   the   municipal   
water   and   sanitation   offices   that   were   established   since   we   began   our   partnership   in   2013.   Our   partnership   
exists   to   promote   the   development   of   high-quality   drinking   water   and   sanitation   services,   accessible   to   all,   and   
sustained   by   strong   communities,   businesses,   and   governments.   
We   also   recognize   that   communities   facing   inadequate   access   to   safe   water   often   do   not   have   sufficient   
sanitation   services   and   that   handwashing   is   not   widely   practiced.   Colgate   continues   to   work   with   public   health   
officials,   academia,   local   schools,   and   clinics   to   educate   millions   of   children   and   their   families   about   the   health   
and   hygiene   benefits   of   handwashing.   Further,   as   a   matter   of   long-standing   practice,   Colgate   provides   safe   
water,   sanitation,   and   hygiene   to   all   people   in   our   workplaces.   
Ecosystem   Protection   
Colgate   will   continue   to   work   to   protect   water-related   ecosystems   through   our   commitment   to   No   Deforestation,   
water   replenishment,   aquifer   protection,   wastewater   treatment,   and   community   partnerships.   In   the   U.S.,   
Colgate   continues   to   support   The   Nature   Conservancy   in   its   mission   to   protect   and   restore   the   health   of   rivers,   
lakes,   wetlands,   and   forests   as   well   as   to   educate   consumers   about   the   importance   of   clean,   accessible   water   
for   people   and   nature.   This   includes   helping   to   protect   bodies   of   water   like   the   Delaware   River   Basin   (a   clean   
105     
water   source   to   nearly   20   million   Americans)   by   combating   nutrient   runoff   and   sedimentation   through   riparian   
restoration   and   the   Sierra   Nevada   (the   source   of   65   percent   of   California’s   water   supply),   where   The   Nature   
Conservancy   is   working   to   conserve   50,000   acres   of   critical   land   to   act   as   a   natural   reservoir   for   clear   mountain   
streams.  
Wastewater   Management   
Wastewater   discharges   from   Colgate’s   operations   are   generally   treated   on   site   and/or   by   the   local   municipality   
prior   to   discharge   to   a   body   of   water.   We   continue   to   work   to   reduce   pollutant-loading   in   our   wastewater   
discharges   prior   to   treatment.   In   selected   locations   where   water   stress   is   high,   Colgate   treats   wastewater   to   
tertiary   levels,   allowing   it   to   be   reused   for   cooling,   toilet   flushing,   gardening,   and   other   purposes.   
Collaboration   and   Disclosure   
As   a   way   to   inform   our   water   stewardship   efforts,   Colgate   engages   with   leading   water   experts.   This   
collaboration   helps   build   expertise,   align   efforts,   and   ensure   our   water   programs   meet   stakeholder   
expectations.   We   are   also   committed   to   transparency   and   reporting   publicly   on   our   water   stewardship   and   
reduction   performance.   Colgate   participates   on   the   United   Nations   CEO   Water   Mandate   Action   Platform   as   part   
of   our   commitment   to   the   United   Nations   Global   Compact   (UNGC).   This   initiative   seeks   to   mobilize   business   
leaders   to   advance   water   stewardship,   sanitation   and   the   United   Nations   Sustainable   Development   Goals   
(SDGs).   Colgate   is   working   with   the   UNGC   to   leverage   the   SDGs   in   the   ongoing   development   of   our   water   
stewardship   and   sustainability   strategies.   Additionally,   we   have   joined   the   UNGC   Action   Platform   on   
climate-related   Pathways   to   Low-Carbon   and   Resilient   Development.   
  
Hear   from   Ann   Tracy,   Colgate’s   Vice   President   of   Global   Sustainability,   
EOHS   and   Supply   Chain   Strategy   and   Vance   Merolla,   Worldwide   
Director   of   Sustainability,    on   how   Colgate   utilizes   the   United   Nations   
Sustainable   Development   Goals   as   a   framework   to   align   Colgate’s   
business   goals   to   a   sustainable   future.  
  
  
  
  
106   
  
  
Colgate   sites   have   been   reducing,   reusing,   and   recycling   waste   for   many   years.   As   part   of   our   2020   
Sustainability   Strategy,   we   have   committed   to   halve   our   manufacturing   waste   sent   to   the   landfill   per   ton   of   
product   compared   to   2010,   working   toward   our   goal   of   Zero   Waste.   In   2018,   Colgate   initiated   a   new   relationship   
with   the    Green   Business   Certification   Inc .   (GBCI)   on   its   TRUE   Zero   Waste   certification   program,   adopting   their   
program   as   our   global   platform   to   drive   Zero   Waste.   Currently,   manufacturing   facilities   in   all   geographies   are   
using   the   TRUE   Zero   Waste   approach   and   tools   to   develop   roadmaps   to   reach   zero   waste.   Additionally,   we   are   
aligning   our   global   waste   data   management   systems   with   TRUE   Zero   Waste   to   ensure   uniform   measurement   of   
results.   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
In   2018,   an   additional   six   sites   were   certified   in   the   United   States,   The   Netherlands,   Czech   
Republic,   and   China.   Three   sites   obtained   the   Gold   level   certification   and   three   sites   
obtained   the   Platinum   level   certification.   
Zero   Waste   Certification   Achievement   -   Hill’s   Richmond   Plant   
107   Working   Toward   Zero   Landfill   Waste   
  
  
Discover   how   our   Hill’s   Pet   Nutrition   plant   in   Richmond,   Indiana   achieved   TRUE   Zero   Waste   Certification   in   
2018   and   is   continuing   to   Build   a   Future   to   Smile   About   through   its   waste   reduction   efforts.   
  
We   recognize   the   importance   of   reducing   waste   at   every   stage   of   the   product   lifecycle,   including   at   the   
end-of-life   of   our   products   and   packaging.   We   have   committed   to   improving   the   recyclability   of   our   packaging,   
by   offering   resources   to   enable   breakthrough   innovation   in   Oral   Care   packaging.   We   have   also   committed   to   
delivering   100   percent   recyclable   packaging   in   our   Personal   Care,   Home   Care   and   Hill’s   Pet   Nutrition   
categories   by   2020   and   100   percent   recyclable   packaging   in   all   categories   by   2025.    Read   more   information   on   
our   packaging   commitments   and   progress .   Building   a   circular   economy   in   which   industrial   materials   and   
packaging   can   be   recycled   and   reused   is   an   important   part   of   a   sustainable   future.   In   addition   to   commitments   
for   our   own   packaging,   Colgate   has   committed   to   work   with   stakeholders   to   drive   continuous   improvement   in   
local   recycling   systems.   
  In   2014,   we   became   one   of   the   initial   investors   in   the   Closed   Loop   Fund   to   develop   local   recycling   
infrastructure   and   sustainable   manufacturing   technologies   that   advance   the   circular   economy.   In   the   United   
States,   municipalities   often   lack   access   to   the   capital   to   invest   in   recycling   programs   and   infrastructure.   The   
Closed   Loop   Fund   provides   zero-interest   loans   to   municipalities   and   below-market   loans   to   private   companies   
with   a   goal   to   develop   infrastructure   and   improve   recycling   rates.   The   fund   will   also   seek   to   co-invest   with   local   
private   and   public   entities   to   magnify   its   impact.   The   fund   has   invested   in   the   collection,   sorting   and   processing   
of   waste.   To   learn   more,   visit   ClosedLoop   Partners'   website    here .     
Progress   is   measured   using   five   key   metrics:   
1.   Tons   recovered   and   returned     
2.   Metric   tons   of   GHG   emissions   avoided     
3.   Economic   benefit   to   municipalities   
4.   Households   reached   or   represented   
5.   Co-investment   dollars   leveraged   
  
108   Reducing   Consumer   Waste   
  
Since   inception,   the   Closed   Loop   Fund   has   invested   in   21   projects   and   deployed   $50M   to   date,   with   
co-investors   investing   over   $200M.   One   of   Closed   Loop   Fund’s   first   loans   –   to   the   Council   Bluffs   Recycling   
Center   in   Iowa   –   was   repaid   in   full   in   2018.   Since   2014,   the   project   has   contributed   to   the   diversion   of   more   
than   25,000   tons   of   material   and   generated   savings   and   revenues   for   the   municipality   of   nearly   $1   million   in   just   
3   years.   If   you   want   to   explore   more,   read   the    Closed   Loop   Fund’s   2018   Impact   Report .   
For   many   years,   Colgate   has   committed   to   the   U.S.   Green   Building   Council   (USGBC)   Leadership   in   Energy   
and   Environmental   Design   (LEED)   certification   for   all   of   our   new   construction   projects   around   the   world.   We   
have   used   the   LEED   green   building   rating   system   to   help   design   and   construct   our   manufacturing   sites,   
technology   centers,   warehouses   and   offices   as   one   way   to   help   reduce   our   overall   exposure   to   water   and   
climate   change-related   issues   and   offer   a   healthier,   more   comfortable   work   environment.   Currently,   Colgate   
has   19   facilities   that   have   achieved   26   LEED   Certifications,   with   one   additional   project   underway.   Our   LEED   
projects   have   been   conducted   in   the   United   States,   Latin   America,   Asia,   and   Europe.   In   addition,   we   use   
several   LEED-certified   third-party   distribution   centers.   Colgate   has   been   a   member   company   of   the   USGBC   
since   2007.   Colgate   is   also   a   charter   member   of   the   USGBC   LEED   User   Group:   Industrial   Facilities,   which   
collaboratively   engages   in   the   advancement   of   LEED   and   green   building   practices   for   the   global   manufacturing   
sector.   Further   information   about   Colgate’s   LEED-certified   buildings   is   available   on   the   USGBC    Green   Building   
Information   Gateway .   
In   2018,   Colgate   achieved   three   new   LEED   certifications   at   our   Burlington,   New   Jersey   Oral   Care   
manufacturing   site   (LEED   Silver),   our   Greenwood,   South   Carolina   Personal   Care   manufacturing   site   (LEED   
Certified),   and   at   our   Sri   City,   India   Toothbrush   manufacturing   site   (LEED   Gold).   
  
Around   the   world,   our   Sri   City,   India   toothbrush   facility   also   
recently   installed   solar   panels,   and   in   2019   we   are   working   on   
renewable   energy   projects   at   additional   locations,   including   
Mission   Hills,   Mexico;   Sanxiao,   China;   and   Piscataway ,   New   
Jersey .   
  
  
“LEED”   and   related   logos   are   trademarks   owned   by   the   U.S.   Green   Building   Council   and   are   used   with   permission.   
109   Commitment   to   Sustainable   Buildings   
  
  
Our   products   are   made   at   Colgate-Palmolive   facilities   that   are   increasing   energy   
and   water   efficiency,   driving   towards   zero   waste,   striving   for   no   workplace   accidents,   
and   adhering   to   ethical   labor   practices.   Visit    Responsibly   Made    to   learn   more   about   
Colgate’s   commitment   to   responsibly   made   products.     
  
  
  
  
Colgate-Palmolive   is   committed   to   source   materials   and   services,   responsibly,   
meaning   with   the   goal   of   not   causing   harm   to   or   exploiting   people   or   the   
environment.   To   support   our   commitment   to   Responsible   Sourcing   we   focus   on   
four   key   pillars:   protection   of   the   environment,   ethical   labor   practices,   the   health   &   
safety   of   people,   and   business   integrity.   
Through   execution   of   the   Colgate   programs,   policies   and   initiatives   shared   here;   
we   continue   to   make   steady   progress   along   our   responsible   sourcing   journey.   Colgate   is   continuously   
assessing   and   benchmarking   its   policies   and   evaluating   our   suppliers   and   the   industries   in   which   they   
operate   to   ensure   our   ingredients   continue   to   be   responsibly   sourced.   
Fundamental   to   our   commitment   are   four   key   policies   and   initiatives;   our   third   party   code   of   conduct,   
ensuring   the   safety   of   our   ingredients,   our   due   diligence   practices   with   third   parties   and   our   focus   on   
climate   change   &   water   stewardship.   To   learn   more   visit    Committed   to   Responsible   Sourcing .   
  
  
  
  
  
110   Responsibly   Made   
Committed   to   Responsible   Sourcing   
  
 Sustainability   Reporting   
For   a   complete   list   of   Colgate   sustainability   reports,   visit    sustainability   report   archives .     
  
 Partnerships   
An   important   element   of   Colgate’ s   sustainability   strategy   is   our   engagement   and   collaboration   with   external   
partners   which   complement   our   strong   internal   capabilities.   Colgate   has   partnerships   with   a   broad   array   of   
organizations,   including   suppliers,   research   institutions,   universities,   industry ,   and   nonprofits.   Some   of   
Colgate’ s   sustainability   partners   in   2018   include:   
  
AIM-PROGRESS    –   Colgate   is   a   member   of   AIM-PROGRESS,   a   global   industry   forum   dedicated   to   the   
promotion   of   responsible   sourcing   practices   and   sustainable   production   systems.   It   is   a   global   initiative   
supported   and   sponsored   by   the   European   Brands   Association   in   Europe   and   the   Grocery   Manufacturers   
Association   in   North   America.   
  
Alliance   for   a   Cavity-Free   Future   (ACFF)    –   As   a   founding   sponsor   of   the   Alliance   for   a   Cavity-Free   Future   
(ACFF),   Colgate   has   joined   a   worldwide   group   of   experts   seeking   to   promote   integrated   clinical   and   public   
health   action   in   order   to   stop   caries   initiation   and   progression   and   to   move   towards   a   cavity-free   future   for   all   
age   groups.   
  
American   Cleaning   Institute   (ACI)    –   Colgate   is   a   member   of   the    American   Cleaning   Institute’s   Charter   for   
Sustainable   Cleaning,   which   requires   companies   to   have   systems   in   place   for   continual   assessment,   review   
and   improvement   of   sustainability   performance,   including   raw   material   selection,   resource   use   and   occupational   
health   and   safety,   at   every   stage   of   the   product   life   cycle.   We   also   participate   in   their   sustainability   metrics   
program.   
  
American   Dental   Association   (ADA)    –   Colgate   partners   with   the   American   Dental   Association   Foundation   
each   year   to   sponsor   the   “Give   Kids   A   Smile®”   program.   Each   year,   approximately   350,000   underserved   
children   benefit   from   more   than   1,500   events   thanks   to   the   efforts   of   40,000   or   more   annual   volunteers.   Colgate  
continues   its   support   with   donations   of   $100,000   and   300,000   oral   care   products   annually.   
111     
CDP    –   Colgate   has   reported   our   carbon   emissions   to   CDP   (formerly   Carbon   Disclosure   Project)   since   2004.   
We   now   respond   to   the   CDP   Climate,   CDP   Water   and   CDP   Forest   Disclosures   and   survey   our   suppliers   
through   the   CDP   Supply   Chain   Program.   
  
CEMPRE    –   Colgate   has   been   a   member   corporation   with   Compromisso   Empresarial   para   Reciclagem   
(Business   Commitment   for   Recycling)   (CEMPRE)   in   Brazil   since   2015.   CEMPRE   promotes   the   concept   of   
integrated   management   of   solid   waste,   promotes   consumer   recycling   measures   and   implements   education   and   
awareness   programs.   
  
Closed   Loop   Fund    –   In   2014,   Colgate   became   one   of   the   initial   investors   in   the   Closed   Loop   Fund   to   develop   
local   recycling   infrastructure    and   sustainable   manufacturing   technologies   that   advance   the   circular   economy.   
This   fund   provides   zero   interest   loans   to   municipalities   and   below   market   loans   to   private   companies,   with   a   
goal   to   develop   infrastructure   and   improve   recycling   rates.   By   2030,   Closed   Loop   Partners   expects   to   reduce   or   
avoid   GHG   emissions   by   at   least   36   million   metric   tons   of   CO2   through   our   Investments.   
  
Conference   Board   Chief   EH&S   Officers’   Council    –   Colgate   participates   in   the   Conference   Board   Chief   
EH&S   Officers’   Council.   Our   membership   enables   peer-to-peer   benchmarking   of   leading   EH&S   strategies,   
practices   and   processes.   
  
Consumer   Goods   Forum    –   We   participate   in   the   CGF   Sustainability   Steering   Team   and   Social   Steering   Team,   
which   includes   the   Plastic   Waste   Working   Group.   We   support   CGF’s   collective   commitments   related   to   
sustainability   climate   change,   including   the   effort   to   help   achieve   zero   net   deforestation   by   2020.   
  
Ellen   MacArthur   Foundation    –   The   Ellen   MacArthur   Foundation   aims   to   inspire   a   generation   to   re-think,   
re-design   &   build   a   positive   future   through   the   framework   of   a   circular   economy.   Colgate   joined   the   New   
Plastics   Economy   initiative   and   signed   the   New   Plastics   Economy   Global   Commitment,   that   unites   businesses,   
governments,   and   other   organizations   behind   a   common   vision   and   targets   to   address   plastic   waste   and   
pollution   at   its   source.   
  
Environmental   Defense   Fund   Climate   Corps    –   EDF   Climate   Corps   is   a   summer   fellowship   program   that   
embeds   trained,   custom-match   graduate   students   inside   leading   organizations   to   accelerate   clean   energy   
112     
projects   and   strategy.   Colgate   has   hosted   Climate   Corps   fellows   since   2013,   and   in   2018   an   EDF   fellow   helped   
Colgate   identify   energy   efficiency   opportunities   at   its   global   manufacturing   facilities   and   develop   2025   water   
reduction   goals,   tailored   to   the   local   context   of   water   basins.   
EUROPEN    -   Colgate   has   been   a   long-standing   member   of   EUROPEN   (The   European   Organization   for   
Packaging   and   the   Environment)   —   which   is   a   cross-industry   organization   presenting   the   packaging   supply   
chain   in   Europe   on   topics   related   to   packaging,   packaging   waste   and   the   environment,   independent   of   any   
specific   packaging   materials   or   systems.   Colgate   is   highly   committed   to   a   packaging   supply   chain   approach   
which   supports   our   packaging   sustainability   agenda   and   related   corporate   objectives   in   Europe   towards   a   
Circular   Economy.   
  
Forum   for   the   Future    –   Colgate   is   a   member   of   the   Forum   for   the   Future   Beauty   and   Personal   Care   Working   
Group,   an   industry   collaboration   to   improve   sustainability   in   the   beauty   and   personal   care   sector.   
  
Earthworm   Foundation    –   Colgate   is   a   palm   oil   member   of   the   Earthworm   Foundation   (formerly   known   as   The   
Forest   Trust),   our   strategic   partner   in   meeting   our   palm   oil   sourcing   commitments.   This   includes   mapping   our   
supply   chain,   engaging   our   suppliers   and   driving   transformation   in   the   supply   chain.   
  
Grocery   Manufacturers   Association   (GMA)    –   As   a   member   of   the   Grocery   Manufacturers   Association,   
Colgate   contributed   to   the   development   of   the   Smart   LabelTM   initiative.   This   platform   will   enable   consumers   to   
obtain   additional   details   about   products   by   scanning   a   QR   code   or   doing   an   online   search   to   reach   a   landing   
page   with   information   on   ingredients.   
Global   Child   Dental   Fund   (GCDF)    –   Colgate   is   the   founding   and   principal   sponsor   of   this   group,   which   builds   
on   the   achievements   of   the   United   Kingdom   government-funded   Global   Child   Dental   Health   Taskforce   program.   
We   established   this   group   in   partnership   with   the   World   Health   Organization   with   the   goal   of   eradicating   dental   
cavities   in   children   globally   by   2026.   
International   Association   for   Soaps,   Detergents   and   Maintenance   Products   (AISE)    –   Colgate   is   a   charter   
member   of   the   AISE   flagship   initiative,   the   Charter   for   Sustainable   Cleaning.   The   AISE   Charter   is   a   
comprehensive   program   that   ensures   continual   improvement   in   the   sustainability   of   our   home   care   products,   
covering   production,   design   and   consumption.   
  
113     
MagnusMode    –   In   2018,   we   continue   to   partner   with   MangusMode,   the   company   behind   MagnusCardsTM,   an   
innovative   mobile   app   that   empowers   people   living   with   cognitive   special   needs,   such   as   autism,   to   
independently   manage   daily   skills   like   tooth   brushing.   
  
National   Dental   Association   (NDA)    –   Colgate’s   commitment   to   improve   children’s   oral   health   in   the   community   
includes   a   long-term   partnership   with   the   National   Dental   Association   (NDA),   the   world’s   largest   minority   oral   
health   association.   
  
The   Nature   Conservancy    –   Colgate   is   working   with   The   Nature   Conservancy   to   raise   awareness   of   water   
issues   in   the   U.S.   and   encourage   consumers   to   conserve   this   vital   resource.   
  
ORCHSE    -   Colgate   partners   with   ORCHSE,   a   leading   global   safety   network   organization,   which   assists   
multinational   companies   in   achieving   and   sustaining   health,   safety   and   environmental   (HSE)   performance   
excellence.   The   organization’s   network   of   110   member   companies,   representing   20   different   industry   sectors,   
facilitates   communication   and   sharing   of   effective   practices   between   partner   companies,   and   between   industry   
and   governmental   agencies   responsible   for   establishing   national   and   international   HSE   policies.   
  
Rainforest   Alliance    –   Colgate   partnered   with   the   Rainforest   Alliance,   an   international   non-profit   organization   
with   30   years   of   experience   in   responsible   forest   management   and   sustainable   sourcing,   to   develop   a   specific   
policy   to   the   sustainable   sourcing   of   pulp   and   paper.   
  
Recycling   Partnership    -   Colgate   joined   The   Recycling   Partnership   in   2018.   TRP    is   a   leading,   national   force   
for   improving   recycling,   that   puts   private   dollars   to   work   in   communities   to   invest   in   a   system   to   protect   
resources,   empower   sustainable   action,   and   unlock   opportunity   in   the   world   of   U.S.   recycling.   
Roundtable   on   Sustainable   Palm   Oil   (RSPO)    –   Colgate   is   a   member   of   this   group,   which   is   working   on   
solutions   for   the   use   and   growth   of   sustainable   palm   oil.   
  
Round   Table   on   Responsible   Soy   (RTRS)    –   Colgate   is   a   member   of   the   RTRS,   an   internationally   recognized   
forum   working   to   develop   and   promote   a   standard   of   sustainability   for   the   production,   processing,   trading   and   use   
of   soy.   
  
Save   the   Children    –   Colgate’s   commitment   to   increase   access   to   children’s   oral   health   and   education   in   the   
community   includes   a   strategic   partnership   with   Save   the   Children   in   Africa,   Latin   America,   and   the   U.S.   regions.   
  
114     
Society   of   Environmental   Toxicology   and   Chemistry   (SETAC)    –   Colgate   is   a   Global   Partner   in   the   Society   of   
Environmental   Toxicology   and   Chemistry.   Colgate   supports   SETAC’s   mission   to   develop   principles   and   practices   
for   protection,   enhancement   and   management   of   the   environment   by   providing   a   forum   where   professionals   can   
exchange   ideas   and   discuss   environmental   challenges,   regulations,   research   and   development   and   
environmental   education.   
  
Sustainable   Packaging   Coalition    –   Colgate   is   a   member   of   the   Sustainable   Packaging   Coalition,   a   project   of   
non-profit   GreenBlue®,   which   brings   together   businesses,   educational   institutions,   and   government   agencies   to   
collectively   strengthen   and   advance   the   business   case   for   more   sustainable   packaging.   Membership   offers   
important   education   and   collaboration   opportunities   as   well   as   forward-thinking   projects   that   promote   packaging   
sustainability.   
  
The   Sustainability   Consortium    –   Colgate   is   an   active   member   of   the   Home   and   Personal   Care   Sector   of   the   
Sustainability   Consortium,   which   is   committed   to   improving   product   sustainability.   Colgate   is   also   on   the   
Corporate   Advisory   Council   of   this   group.   
  
TerraCycle ®     –   Colgate   continues   to   partner   with   eco-innovator   TerraCycle ®    in   five   markets,   including   the   U.S.,   
UK,   Australia,   New   Zealand,   and   China.   TerraCycle ®    recycles   oral   care   packaging   and   toothbrushes   collected   at   
schools,   stores,   and   other   locations   into   new   and   affordable   eco-friendly   products,   such   as   recycled   benches,   
gardens,   playgrounds,   and   picnic   tables.   Additionally,   TerraCycle ®    recycles   oral   care   packaging   into   backpacks,   
tote   bags,   and   pencil   cases.   Over   two   million   people   around   the   world   are   collecting   used   Colgate   packaging   to   
be   made   into   new   products   by   TerraCycle ® .   
  
TRUE   Zero   Waste    –   In   2017,   Colgate   began   working   with   Green   Business   Certification   Inc.   (GBCI)   on   the   TRUE   
Zero   Waste   certification   program   as   a   way   to   help   support   our   efforts   to   drive   towards   zero   waste.   We   continue   to   
implement   the   TRUE   Zero   Waste   program   on   projects   all   over   the   world.   
  
United   Nations   (UN)   Global   Compact    –   Colgate-Palmolive   supports   the   United   Nations   Global   Compact   and   is   
working   to   align   our   operations   and   strategies   with   ten   universally   accepted   principles   in   the   areas   of   human   
rights,   labor,   environment   and   anticorruption,   and   we   are   taking   action   in   support   of   UN   Sustainable   Development   
Goals.   
  
United   Nations   (UN)   CEO   Water   Mandate    –   Colgate-Palmolive   is   pleased   to   support   the   United   Nations   CEO   
Water   Mandate.   
  
115     
U.S.   EPA   ENERGY   STAR    –   Colgate   is   an   active   partner   of   the   EPA’s   industrial   sector   and   has   been   named   an   
ENERGY   STAR   Partner   of   the   Year   for   eight   years   in   a   row.   Since   2011,   70   Colgate   manufacturing   sites   have   
achieved   the   U.S.   EPA   ENERGY   STAR   Challenge   for   Industry   recognition.   
  
U.S.   EPA   GREEN   POWER   PARTNER    –   In   2014,   Colgate   joined   the   U.S.   EPA’s   Green   Power   Partnership,   which   
encourages   the   voluntary   use   of   green   power   to   reduce   the   environmental   impacts   associated   with   conventional   
electricity   use.   Partners   benefit   from   the   use   of   green   power,   while   supporting   the   development   of   renewable   
energy   in   the   United   States.   Colgate   was   named   to   the   National   Top   100   list   in   2018,   representing   the   largest   
green   power   users   within   the   Partnership.   
  
U.S.   EPA   SmartWay    –   In   the   U.S.,   Colgate-Palmolive   and   Hill’s   Pet   Nutrition   are   U.S.   EPA   SmartWay   Transport   
Partners.   The   program   helps   the   freight   transportation   sector   improve   supply   chain   efficiency   and   reduce   
greenhouse   gas   emissions.   
  
U.S.   Green   Building   Council   (USGBC)    –   Colgate   has   been   a   member   company   of   the   U.S.   Green   Building   
Council   (USGBC)   since   2007.   Colgate   is   also   a   Charter   Member   of   the   USGBC   LEED   User   Group:   Industrial   
Facilities,   which   actively   engages   in   advancing   green   building   practices   for   manufacturing   sites.   
  
Water   For   People    –   Colgate   launched   our   partnership   with   Water   For   People   in   2013.   Since   that   time,   Colgate’s   
contributions   to   Water   For   People’s   Everyone   Forever   program   have   helped   them   to   reach   over   450,000   people   
with   water,   sanitation   systems   and/or   health   and   hygiene   education   in   Guatemala,   Peru   and   India.   
  
World   Resources   Institute   (WRI)    –   Colgate   is   a   member   of   WRI’s   Corporate   Consultative   Group   to   share   
knowledge   and   stay   informed   on   key   environmental   issues.   Colgate   also   uses   the   WRI   Aqueduct   tool   to   assess   a   
variety   of   water-related   risks   in   our   operations,   including   water   stress,   drought   and   flood.   
  
  
  
116   