2015 
CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
(COVERING 2014)ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
A Message from Brian L. Roberts, Chairman and CEO, Comcast  ............................. 4
Q+A: David L. Cohen, Senior Executive Vice President, Comcast  .............................. 5
About Comcast  ....................................................................... 6
About This Report  ..................................................................... 8
INVESTING IN THE NEXT GENERATION  ..................................................... 10
A Digital Bridge to School and Career Success ............................................. 12
Tech Learning Combines ‘Substance and Sizzle’  ........................................... 14
What’s New  .......................................................................... 16
INSPIRING CHANGE THROUGH MEDIA  ..................................................... 19
Planting Seeds of Hope and Change  ..................................................... 21
The Changing Face of Movies  ........................................................... 23
Raising Awareness with Real Stories ..................................................... 25
What’s New  .......................................................................... 27
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE  .................................................. 30
What’s the Big Idea? ................................................................... 32
A CORE Career Experience  ............................................................. 34
‘Mid-Century Swank’ with a 21st-Century Perspective  ...................................... 36
Building a Smarter Energy Future  ....................................................... 38
What’s New  .......................................................................... 40
ALSO IN THIS REPORT  ................................................................... 43
Continuing a Legacy of Integrity  ......................................................... 44
Supporting Nonprofit Organizations ...................................................... 45
Awards and Recognitions ............................................................... 46TABLE OF CONTENTS
Cover photo: Students maneuver their robots through a course during the first of two  
Back-to-School Resource Fairs in SeaTac and Des Moines, Washington, last August.  
Comcast NBCUniversal sponsored the event, which drew nearly 4,000 visitors.
2  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2015  
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
At Comcast NBCUniversal, we create possibilities using the power and 
reach of media and technology. This is more than what we do — it’s the essence of our business. We’re a company of more than 139,000 employees committed to leveraging our global assets in ways that extend from creating value for our customers and shareholders to connecting and strengthening the communities we serve. As a company uniquely positioned to inform, empower, and inspire, we embrace the opportunity to stimulate conversation and mobilize action to address some of the nation’s most critical issues. We seek not only to move our business forward, but also to move people forward.
3  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT
A MESSAGE FROM BRIAN L. ROBERTS
At Comcast NBCUniversal, we work 
together as a team to make big things 
happen — from pushing the limits of 
what technology and media can achieve, 
to doing what’s right for our customers, 
our viewers, and our world. 
Giving back to communities is one of 
our core values, and has been since my 
father, Ralph Roberts, founded Comcast 
more than 50 years ago. When he 
passed away June 18, 2015, we lost one 
of America’s greatest entrepreneurs 
and philanthropists. My father was 
the heart and soul of our company, 
and I am inspired that what he stood 
for — integrity, family, hard work, and 
dedication — lives on through our great culture today.
We continually seek new and better 
ways to make the most positive impact 
possible through our employees, 
our products, our operations, and our giving. I’m pleased to share our 
progress in 2014 in this corporate social responsibility report.
I am often asked what fuels the amazing 
success of our company, and the answer 
is easy — our employees’ drive, passion, 
and entrepreneurial spirit. It’s evident in 
their thousands of submissions to The 
Idea, our new employee engagement 
program that invites people from all 
corners of Comcast NBCUniversal to 
propose bold ways of improving our products and practices.
Their generosity shines during our 
annual United Way giving campaign, 
which reflects our employees’ deep 
connection to the communities we serve. 
Combined with matching grants from 
the Comcast Foundation, we raised  
$9 million last year for United Way and 
the organizations it supports to help 
each of them continue their important 
work. Since 2001, our company has 
provided a total of more than $67 million 
in support to United Way. Along with delivering rich information 
and entertainment experiences for 
customers, we apply our resources 
and reach to help more people realize 
the benefits of technology. Some of 
our most important work in 2014 
focused on closing the digital divide 
by extending access to broadband 
Internet and computers, and providing 
technology skills training to millions  
of underserved families.
Through groundbreaking assistive 
technologies such as the “talking guide” 
for our XFINITY X1 Platform, we continue 
to make Comcast NBCUniversal 
products and services more accessible 
for people with disabilities. Sharing the 
power of technology means providing the 
freedom to independently explore and 
navigate thousands of shows and movies.
Our digital and broadcast platforms 
have the ability not only to inform, but 
also to truly inspire. I see this inspiration 
in our nationwide Growing Hope initiative created by MSNBC, which has 
empowered thousands of people to voice 
their ideas — and pool their actions — 
for positive change on issues ranging from hunger to healthcare, and from 
education to environmental conservation.
Maintaining the trust of our customers, 
partners, employees, and other 
stakeholders moves us to continually 
improve our performance, use our 
resources wisely, and grow our business responsibly. I want to thank all of our 
Comcast NBCUniversal employees  
for adding purpose and momentum  
to these efforts.
Brian L. Roberts  
Chairman and CEO
“I am often asked what 
fuels the amazing 
success of our 
company, and the 
answer is easy —  
our employees’  
drive, passion, and 
entrepreneurial spirit.”
— Brian L. Roberts  
Chairman and CEO
4  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORTQ: WHAT ROLE DOES DIVERSITY PLAY IN 
COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL ’S CORPORATE 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY?
David: From partnering with diverse 
organizations to empowering people 
with disabilities to increasing the 
number of women leaders across our 
company, our commitment to being 
the model company for diversity and 
inclusion has never been stronger.
We know diverse perspectives lead 
to innovative ideas and that the key 
to creating cutting-edge accessible 
technologies, television programming, 
movies, and entertainment experiences 
is maintaining an authentic and 
focused eye on the diverse 
communities we serve. 
To be the best we can be, we strive to 
attract, develop, retain, and embrace a 
workforce that reflects the communities 
we serve. During the past few years, 
we have significantly increased our 
contracting activity with diverse suppliers. 
We’ve also increased our On Demand and 
online digital content offerings designed 
for African American, Asian American, 
and Hispanic communities. 
Q: WHERE DID THE COMPANY ACHIEVE 
THE GREATEST CITIZENSHIP-RELATED 
IMPACT IN 2014?
David: Every one of our employees, 
whether they sit in the corporate 
boardroom or are on our front lines, 
understands why access to the Internet is so crucial to developing 21st-century 
life skills. With 30 percent of Americans lacking access to the Internet at home, 
closing the digital divide is the surest 
way we know to equalize opportunity for 
education, enable access to healthcare 
and employment opportunities, and 
provide a broad spectrum of news, 
information, and entertainment choices. Through Internet Essentials
SM from 
Comcast, the nation’s largest and 
most comprehensive Internet adoption 
program, we are tackling the toughest 
part of the digital divide — reaching 
low-income families whose children 
need access to broadband service. We have connected more than 1.8 million 
Americans to the power of the Internet 
at home, and we are working hard to 
connect many more.
Together with Boys & Girls Clubs of 
America, in late 2014 we launched 
My.Future, an advanced technology 
skills curriculum that offers dozens of 
hands-on learning activities to equip 
students for success at school and in 
the job market. 
A cornerstone of our new five-year 
agreement with Boys & Girls Clubs, 
My.Future is not just a digital literacy 
program; it is a cutting-edge technology 
education initiative designed to attract 
and keep children’s attention. My.Future 
does this through a personalized 
approach that is key to engaging young 
people in a digital environment. It also 
recognizes that children learn in different 
ways and at different speeds. Available to 
the 4 million youth served by 4,100 Boys 
& Girls Clubs annually, My.Future enables 
individual children to engage with the 
Internet at their own pace and to explore 
the areas most appealing to them.
Q: AS THE COMPANY’S SENIOR 
EXECUTIVE OVERSEEING CORPORATE 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY, WHAT 
MOTIVATES YOU PERSONALLY  
ABOUT THIS WORK?
David: Almost everything I’ve been able 
to accomplish professionally has derived 
from my education. 
This foundation is the driving force 
behind my efforts to combat the lack of equal educational opportunity 
that exists in too many communities. 
The incredible scale of Comcast 
NBCUniversal enables me to work 
with hundreds of high-impact nonprofit 
organizations, both on the national 
stage and in individual communities, to 
help open what had once been closed 
doors to many bright futures.
Q: WHERE DOES BUILDING TRUST FALL 
WITHIN YOUR CITIZENSHIP PRIORITIES 
FOR 2015 AND BEYOND?
David: When people use our products 
or enjoy our content, they are inviting us 
into their homes. We view this invitation 
as a privilege and believe our customers 
deserve an excellent experience. That 
is why we have made transforming the 
customer experience our top priority. 
We are reimagining everything, from 
how we speak with customers to how 
we leverage technology to make life 
easier for them. Customers are core to 
our business, and the way we interact 
with them individually on the phone, 
online, and in their homes is just as 
important to our success as any product 
we provide. Neil Smit, President and 
CEO of Comcast Cable, sums it up 
well: Customer service should be our 
best product. While change will not happen overnight, we are reexamining 
everything we do and are committed to 
getting this right. 
 
Q+A  DAVID L. COHEN
David L. Cohen, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Diversity 
Officer, reflects on our commitment to corporate citizenship.
5  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORTABOUT COMCAST
Founded in 1963, Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ: CMCSA, CMCSK) 
is a global media and technology company with two primary 
businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal. Comcast Cable is 
the nation’s largest video, high-speed Internet, and phone provider 
to residential customers under the XFINITY brand, and we also 
provide these services to businesses. NBCUniversal operates news, entertainment, and sports cable networks, the NBC and 
Telemundo broadcast networks, television production operations, 
television station groups, Universal Pictures, and Universal Parks 
and Resorts.
Visit comcastcorporation.com for more information.
COMCAST CABLE
Comcast Cable is the nation’s largest provider of video, high-speed Internet, and 
phone services (“cable services”) to residential customers under the XFINITY brand, 
and we also provide these services to businesses.
CABLE NETWORKS
Cable Networks includes our national cable networks, our regional sports and news 
networks, our international cable networks, our cable television production studios, 
and our related digital media properties.
* Minority and/or noncontrolling interest
* 
6  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORTBROADCAST TELEVISION
Broadcast Television includes the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks,  
our NBC- and Telemundo-owned local broadcast television stations, our broadcast 
television production operations, and our related digital media properties.ABOUT 
COMCAST
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
Filmed Entertainment includes Universal Pictures, which produces, acquires, 
markets, and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide.
THEME PARKS
Theme Parks includes our Universal theme parks in Orlando and Hollywood.
COMCAST SPECTACOR
Comcast Spectacor owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in 
Philadelphia and operates arena-management-related businesses around the globe. 
7  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORTComcast NBCUniversal’s eighth corporate social responsibility report 
covers the 2014 fiscal year (January 1, 2014, to December 31, 2014).
We developed this report to address the issues that we believe are 
of the most interest to our business and our stakeholders, and have 
detailed the scope of our key initiatives and described their respective 
impacts. The Governance and Directors Nominating Committee of 
Comcast’s Board of Directors periodically reviews and assesses our 
corporate social responsibility report.ABOUT THIS REPORT
8  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Opening youths’ eyes to greater possibilities and 
ensuring they have the resources to succeed are investments not only in their futures, but also in ours.INVESTING  
IN THE NEXT 
GENERATION
Comcast NBCUniversal combines media and technology 
in ways that raise people’s awareness of critical issues, invite them into the conversation, and enable them to act.INSPIRING 
CHANGE  
THROUGH MEDIA
We stay on course by giving our employees the room — 
and the incentives — to relentlessly pursue what’s next.EMPOWERING  
OUR PEOPLE  
TO INNOVATE
9  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
INVESTING IN THE 
NEXT GENERATION
1.8 MILLION
Number of low-income 
Americans who have received home Internet connections through Internet Essentials, helping close the digital divide for children and families$21.6 MILLION
Value of Comcast Leaders and Achievers® Scholarships 
awarded to more than 21,000 students since 2001 — including $2 million for the 2014-15 academic year$2 MILLION+
Annual investment in internships, fellowships, and scholarships for diverse students
10  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  INVESTING IN THE NEXT 
GENERATION  
An opportunity. A mentor. A new experience. These can set off a chain reaction — positively 
transforming young people’s visions of what they can achieve through their learning, in their careers, or in their communities. Opening youths’ eyes to greater possibilities and ensuring 
they have the resources to succeed are investments not only in their futures, but also in ours.
We believe digital literacy skills are 
fundamental to success in the 21st century — and since they are also  
core to our business, we have the opportunity to make a powerful difference in these areas.
Through our Internet Essentials 
program, we have offered affordable, high-speed broadband service to  
1.8 million low-income U.S. households  
so more families can seize the educational, employment, and communication opportunities that  
the Web makes possible.
We’re also working with local schools 
and nonprofits to help stoke young 
people’s interest in science, technology, 
engineering, and math (STEM) — preparing them to pursue college degrees in those areas and compete for jobs in many of the fastest-growing 
career fields. My.Future, part of our 
multi-year partnership with Boys & Girls Clubs of America, provides after-school learning in digital literacy, STEM,  and other academic areas for millions  
of youth.
We don’t just plant the seeds of higher 
learning: Created in 2001, the Comcast Leaders and Achievers
® Scholarship 
Program awards $2 million annually to 2,000 high school seniors, more than half 
of whom are from diverse backgrounds.
And we’re there when youth need 
guidance from a role model they can trust. 
Hundreds of our employees volunteer as youth mentors, with organizations including Big Brothers Big Sisters of 
America and FIRST
® Robotics. We also 
support City Year, a nonprofit whose 
volunteers work in public schools to help 
at-risk students stay in school and on the 
path to graduation.
We are a local company at heart — 
delivering products, services, and media content to thousands of communities where our 139,000-plus employees 
also live and work. Providing education, 
mentorship, and career opportunities  
is a natural expression of our values.Most of us can recall someone who opened a door — perhaps by teaching us a new skill, sharing an experience, or 
simply offering a bit of encouragement — 
that helped us see brighter possibilities ahead. Comcast NBCUniversal and our employees embrace the opportunities we have to continue this cycle with the next 
generation — who will someday push 
our company, and countless others, in exciting new directions. 
 
IN THIS SECTION
12A Digital Bridge to School  
and Career Success
14Tech Learning Combines  
‘Substance and Sizzle’
16What’s New
11  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
The makeovers — part of the nationwide launch of My.Future, 
a new technology skills partnership between Comcast NBCUniversal and BGCA — brought in state-of-the-art computers, tablets, smart boards, digital cameras, music studio tools, and video-editing capabilities. In addition, the Comcast Foundation funded on-site renovations, including new paint, furniture, and structural repairs.
Inside the Wayne Avenue Boys & Girls 
Club, which serves more than 200 young people a day in one of Philadelphia’s 
poorest neighborhoods, Club kids were 
ecstatic. “Our kids could not believe that all of this technology was really for them,” says Lisabeth Marziello, CEO of Boys & Girls Clubs of Philadelphia.
Through My.Future, the latest chapter 
in our 15-year relationship with BGCA, 
Comcast NBCUniversal is committing tens of millions of dollars in cash and in-kind support over the next five years to help young people embrace 
and explore the transformative power 
of technology. Through personalized, hands-on learning and training, My.Future prepares Club kids to succeed in the growing digital world.
Already, My.Future has fundamentally 
transformed the way BGCA serves young people and local communities.
“The foundation of the Boys & Girls 
Club experience has been one-on-one 
relationships — that will always be 
true,” says Kimberly Boyd, National Vice President of Program, Training, and Youth Development Services at BGCA. “My.Future is game-changing 
in that we’ve come to recognize that 
personal relationships can extend well beyond face-to-face interactions for this generation. The world can be very well connected in a digital environment, and 
young people feel a strong personal 
connection through digital engagement.”Or as Jim Clark, President and CEO of 
BGCA, puts it, “When it comes to kids, 
we have to play in their space.” 
CLOSING THE TECHNOLOGY GAP
Digital literacy — access to technology and the skills to use it with confidence — is crucial as this generation of students 
prepares to become tomorrow’s job 
seekers. Yet millions of American children — particularly in underserved communities — lack that access. 
“The next generation will not be equipped 
to fill the technology jobs of tomorrow 
unless we take a holistic approach today, 
with access to technology and the skills to use it safely, effectively, and creatively,” says David L. Cohen, Senior Executive 
Jim Clark, President and CEO, BGCA; Kimberly Boyd, 
National Vice President of Program, Training, and Youth Development Services, BGCA
A DIGITAL BRIDGE 
TO SCHOOL AND CAREER SUCCESS
In 2014, Boys & Girls Clubs in Chicago,  
Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Washington, DC, 
got a major facelift.
My.Future, a new technology skills partnership between Comcast NBCUniversal and Boys & Girls Clubs of America (BGCA), offers hands-on learning activities to equip 
students for success at school and in the job market. 
INVESTING IN THE NEXT GENERATION
12  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Vice President of Comcast Corporation. 
“My.Future helps build that bridge.”
My.Future delivers the advanced digital 
tools and resources that young people need to succeed now and throughout 
their lives. The program begins with 
Essentials, a suite of project-based experiences designed to round out Club 
kids’ basic technology skills.
Kids can then move on to Extensions, 
which encourages them to dive deeply 
into specific areas of interest — such as robotics, coding, online journalism, and game design — that could lead to future 
career paths. Along the way, My.Future 
participants can create a digital portfolio of their growing technical competencies to 
show colleges and prospective employers.
CHANGING WITH THE TIMES
My.Future traces its roots to Club Tech, 
an earlier Comcast technology initiative 
with BGCA that helped introduce basic 
technology to those who needed it most. “At that time, we were encountering kids 
who had not grown up with any sort of 
technology,” Kimberly says. “No computers at home, little or nothing at school. We had 
to start with the basics of how to access 
and use technology.”
A lot has changed in the world of 
technology, and kids are now effectively 
digital natives. “By 2014, most of the young people coming through our 
doors have grown up with some kind of 
technology as a universal part of their lives,” Kimberly says. 
To remain relevant for this new 
generation of kids, BGCA had to revisit 
and refresh its approach. It also needed the commitment of a technology partner that could grow with the needs of local 
Clubs and their members.
“The evolution of Club Tech into 
My.Future required foresight and patience,” Kimberly says. “Comcast 
NBCUniversal was a crucial, early backer 
and has shown their willingness as a true foundational partner for ongoing discovery-based digital learning.” 
 
Learn more about My.Future at  
bgca.org/myfuture .  
“Our kids could not 
believe that all of 
this technology was 
really for them.”
— Lisabeth Marziello  
CEO  
Boys & Girls Clubs of PhiladelphiaLEFT: Young people in the My.Future program work together on a project at a BGCA clubhouse in Chicago. RIGHT: BGCA members can explore specific career paths —  
from robotics to digital photography to game design — through My.Future.
4 MILLION
Youth served annually by 4,100  
Boys & Girls Clubs who will have  
access to My.Future
INVESTING IN THE NEXT GENERATION  | A Digital Bridge to School and Career Success
13  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
To help students cross this educational divide, we are 
partnering on a groundbreaking initiative for Chicago high schoolers. The Get Schooled, Get Connected Challenge —  
which debuted in October 2014 — uses a technology-based platform of games, pop culture, recognition, and rewards to motivate 13- to 19-year-old students to prepare for college. The program plays an important role in our commitment to helping prepare the next generation to thrive in the 21st-century economy, which in turn fuels our long-term business success.
“Get Schooled, Get Connected taps into 
the digital resources we know kids need to be successful in high school and 
going on to college,” says Carol Rava 
Treat, Director of External Affairs for the Get Schooled Foundation, a national nonprofit founded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and Viacom. “But we 
wrap these resources in an entertaining 
package that ensures high engagement and high return rates. It’s a marriage of substance and sizzle.”
The Get Schooled Foundation provides 
the educational content for the 
challenge, while partners such as the Chicago City of Learning, the Digital 
Youth Network, Chicago Public Schools, 
and dozens of Chicago-based community 
organizations help students connect with the content. Participants from eligible low-income households were 
pre-approved for high-speed home 
broadband access through our Internet Essentials program, helping ensure that 
a higher percentage of Chicago teens 
could take part in the Get Schooled, Get Connected Challenge. Internet Essentials provides eligible families  
with Internet access for less than  
$10 per month.“Students who don’t have home Internet 
access are really hobbled in their 
educational trajectory,” Carol says. “It’s harder to do homework, check grades, and especially complete all the steps necessary to get into college. Comcast’s participation in the Get Schooled, Get Connected Challenge is extremely valuable and illustrates the company’s 
commitment to investing in communities.”
Dr. Shawn Jackson, Deputy Chief of 
Teaching and Learning at Chicago Public Schools, agrees that closing the technology gap through Internet 
The Get Schooled, Get Connected Challenge keeps 
teens’ attention by appealing to their interests — such as music, sports, and pop culture. 
TECH LEARNING  
COMBINES  
‘SUBSTANCE  
AND SIZZLE’ 
Knowing how to appeal to college admissions officers and prepare 
for college is tough enough for the average high school student. 
Imagine having to navigate this process — and all the schoolwork, 
extracurricular activities, and essays it requires — without easy access to a computer or the Internet.
Chicago teens celebrate at an event marking the end of the Get Schooled, Get Connected Challenge, which uses a technology-based curriculum  
to help prepare students for college and beyond.
INVESTING IN THE NEXT GENERATION
14  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Essentials is critical to making programs 
like the Get Schooled, Get Connected Challenge successful. “It boils down to 
understanding the importance of the 
digital medium,” he says. “Our district’s partnership with Comcast and other organizations has been instrumental in our progress so far.”
In 2014, we donated more than $200,000 
to Chicago organizations to support 
Internet Essentials and other digital literacy programs. This included $100,000 for the Children First Foundation, the Chicago City of Learning, and 
other contributing partners to the Get 
Schooled, Get Connected Challenge. These resources helped community organizations expand their capacity and connect more kids and families to the 
Internet. In addition, we gave away laptops 
to 40 students who were active in the inaugural 12-week challenge.  By leveraging the key influences in their lives, such as rock stars, athletes, and pop culture characters, the Get Schooled, 
Get Connected Challenge keeps teens’ 
attention. Students can watch First Lady Michelle Obama discuss what to expect when applying for financial aid, get school advice from Chicago Bears player Jordan 
Mills, and learn how to impress college 
recruiters — while keeping brain-eaters  
at bay — in the game Zombie College.
“It’s important for us to keep students 
connected,” Dr. Jackson says. “Digital media is what our students know and 
how they communicate. As educators, 
we’re trying to harness the 21st-century skills students are building outside of school and integrate them within our classrooms, because that’s how they’re 
engaging with the world.”
Students who earned the most points 
and badges at the end of the challenge 
were invited to a celebration with celebrities including actress and  
singer Christina Milian and MTV’s  
Sway Calloway. The Get Schooled Foundation, the Chicago City of Learning, and other partners are looking at ways to build on the success of the challenge going forward.
Sybil Madison-Boyd, a program director 
for the Digital Youth Network, says the 
Get Schooled, Get Connected Challenge 
demonstrates the importance of improving digital literacy among today’s youth. “Education today is beyond the brick and mortar of school walls,” she 
says. “There’s power in the digital tools 
teens use every day, but many have never been introduced to these opportunities before. That’s why it’s so important to 
provide access to the Internet and the 
educational resources it offers.”  
Learn more about Internet Essentials  
at internetessentials.com.THE OPPOSITE OF BORING: 
STUDENTS WEIGH IN
Chicago students who participated 
in the Get Schooled, Get Connected Challenge share what they liked most 
about the program.
“There’s so much on the site that 
I’d never learned before, like how 
to get money for school and get 
noticed by colleges.”
— Jeremy S., Senior  
George Washington High School 
“I like the videos, especially the 
ones dealing with the FAFSA 
financial aid process. And the 
games are great, especially Zombie College.” 
— Deisy C., Junior  
Kelly High School
 “It’s so accessible. I love the 
rewards system because we 
can earn points while also 
learning about college and watching cool videos.”
— Geneva R., Senior  
Payton College Preparatory High School
“Everything was so easy, fun, and 
interactive! It was the opposite of 
a boring lecture.”
— Taylor W., Senior  
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.  
College Preparatory High School
“We’re trying to harness the 
21st-century skills students are building outside of 
school and integrate them within our classrooms, 
because that’s how they’re 
engaging with the world.”
— Dr. Shawn Jackson  
Deputy Chief of Teaching and Learning  
Chicago Public SchoolsRapper B.o.B entertains students at an event midway 
through the Get Schooled, Get Connected Challenge  
in Chicago.
3,000
Chicago students participated in the 
inaugural Get Schooled, Get Connected Challenge between October 2014 and 
January 2015
INVESTING IN THE NEXT GENERATION  | Tech Learning Combines ‘Substance and Sizzle’
15  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
HOW BUILDING 
ROBOTS ALSO BUILDS OPPORTUNITY
Matthew Miller knows firsthand the 
impact that an innovative learning environment and a supportive adult 
mentor can have in young people’s lives.
“In high school, I took part in a 
program that taught problem solving 
through hands-on learning: how to think, collaborate, design, create and compete,” says Matthew, an Assistant 
Program Manager on the Universal 
Parks Technology Innovation Team.  
“It had a huge influence on how I chose my career path.”
Now Matthew, like many Comcast 
NBCUniversal employees, is returning the favor as a volunteer mentor with a FIRST 
Robotics team based in Orlando, Florida.
FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition 
of Science and Technology) is a 
national nonprofit that helps develop students’ self-confidence, knowledge, and life skills, while inspiring them 
to pursue opportunities and careers 
in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). Nationally, Comcast NBCUniversal sponsors more than 50 high school teams in the annual 
FIRST Robotics Competition, in which 
competitors design, build, and program a robot for specific tasks. During the 2014 season, four of our sponsored teams reached the FIRST Robotics 
Championship in St. Louis, Missouri. 
Now in his second year as a mentor, 
Matthew says he’s inspired by knowing 
FIRST Robotics might just fuel the passion of a young millennial who someday becomes a colleague.“I tell them how I got my foot in the door and worked my way up from an intern,” 
Matthew says. “They begin to look at 
Comcast NBCUniversal as a place where they could put their skills to work in the real world.”
He has also come to realize that these 
young people learn more than robotics. “Our kids develop teamwork, leadership, 
and social skills that give them the 
confidence they need to go out and become better employees and citizens,” he says. 
Learn more at http://corporate.comcast.
com/comcast-voices/comcast-and-
nbcuniversal-mentoring-the-next-generation-of-innovators-through-first.
FIRST Robotics teammates prepare for a showcase at Comcast headquarters in Philadelphia. We sponsor 
more than 50 teams in the annual competition, and many of our employees are volunteer mentors.
“Our kids develop teamwork, 
leadership, and social  
skills that give them the 
confidence they need to  
go out and become better 
employees and citizens”
— Matthew Miller  
Assistant Program Manager  
Universal Parks50+WHAT’S
NEW
FIRST Robotics teams that we 
sponsor in communities across the United States
INVESTING IN THE NEXT GENERATION  | What’s New
16  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
WHAT’S
NEW
DARE TO DREAM: 
ROBOTICS DOCUMENTARY INSPIRES LATINO TEENS
In 2004, two Phoenix high school science 
teachers daringly entered their school in an unusual robotics competition — one 
that took place entirely underwater. Four 
students, all sons of undocumented Mexican immigrants, signed up.
What happened next sent shock waves 
through the school and Hispanic community. Going toe-to-toe against the likes of MIT and other college 
powerhouses, these four students 
conquered the competition with a ragtag robot made of PVC, duct tape, and — to ward off a last-minute flotation 
emergency — eight super-plus tampons. 
The teens’ story is told in Underwater 
Dreams, a documentary by award-
winning filmmaker Mary Mazzio that shines a light on several issues of importance among Hispanics, including immigration and the lack of opportunities 
for Hispanic students in the science, 
technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics fields.  In July 2014, MSNBC and Telemundo 
simulcast Underwater Dreams as part 
of our nationwide Aprender es Triunfar  
campaign (Learning Is Succeeding, 
learningissucceeding.com and 
aprenderestriunfar.com), helping spread the film’s story of hope and empowerment to Hispanic audiences across the United States and in  
other countries. 
The documentary, which was also 
rebroadcast on mun2 (now NBC UNIVERSO) and shown in July at 100 community screenings at AMC Theatres, has had a profound impact on viewers. Belen Garcia, Vice Principal at Adelaide Price Elementary School in Anaheim, California, called it “a life-changing film 
for young scholars and adults.” Julio 
Ricardo Verela, founder of the humor and commentary site LatinoRebels.com, tweeted, “Let’s be real: Seeing young Latino high school students showing a love of science on film is beyond powerful.” And Diana Albarron Chicas, a Latina engineer with a degree from MIT, summed up the message of the documentary this way: “Young people will rise to the level of expectation, regardless 
of poverty or immigration status.” 
LESSONS LEARNED,  
LITTLE AND BIG 
Inspiration and service go hand in 
hand when it comes to our people and their commitment to helping the next generation succeed. Comcast NBCUniversal employees who participate in volunteer programs report that they are more inspired to do their best work every day. In fact, they score an average of 10 
points higher on employee engagement 
surveys than those who do not volunteer.
“When my Little, Leo, tells 
me he wants to have my 
office when he grows up,  
I know that Beyond School 
Walls is opening his eyes  
to new experiences and possibilities.”
— Darren Oliver  
Vice President of Human Resources  
Comcast Cable  
Beaverton, Oregon
One of our premier volunteer initiatives 
is the Beyond School Walls youth mentoring program, which we continue 
to expand in partnership with Big 
Brothers Big Sisters of America. 
Every two weeks, about 325 of our 
employees nationwide join at-risk students from neighborhood schools in the workplace for one-on-one time and 
a glimpse at future career possibilities. 
The students (Littles) are matched with employees (Bigs) who share their time, talent, and attention, both inside and 
out of the office. The results can be life 
changing, for Littles and Bigs. 
Earlier this year, our work with Beyond 
School Walls earned Comcast the Corporate Mentoring Challenge Award from MENTOR, a national organization dedicated to expanding mentorship. 
INVESTING IN THE NEXT GENERATION  | What’s New
17  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
CARING FOR 
COMMUNITIES
Few events embody our company and 
employee values better than Comcast Cares Day, the nation’s largest single-
day corporate volunteer effort. Led by 
our employees each spring, the event provides an opportunity to celebrate our year-round commitment to making a positive difference in the communities 
we serve.
“I love how we bring our 
children to this event.  
We’re showing the next 
generation how to give back. I am so proud.” 
— Holly Perez  
Retail Sales Consultant  
Comcast Cable  
Pottstown, PennsylvaniaIn 2014, nearly 95,000 volunteers 
contributed 570,000 hours at more than 820 projects in 15 countries around the 
world. One out of every eight of our 2014 
Comcast Cares Day projects took place at a neighborhood school — painting, cleaning, improving, and upgrading the buildings, grounds, and learning 
environments. And the next generation 
volunteered their time and talents as well: In 2014, one out of five volunteers was under the age of 18.
Since the first Comcast Cares Day in 
2001, more than 600,000 volunteers have 
contributed 3.7 million hours of service. 
 
Learn more at  corporate.comcast.com/
news-information/news-feed/comcast-cares-
day-impact-one-school-at-a-time .
Nearly 95,000 of our employees and other volunteers participated in the 2014 Comcast Cares Day, 
completing more than 820 service projects in 15 countries.WHAT’S
NEW
$478 MILLION+
Our cash and in-kind donations to 
local, regional, and national charitable organizations that share our commitment  
to improving communities, enriching lives, and investing in the next generation. 
INVESTING IN THE NEXT GENERATION  | What’s New
18  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
INSPIRING CHANGE 
THROUGH MEDIA
$9 MILLION
Donations to United Way 
by employees and the Comcast Foundation 1.8 MILLION
Views of “Truly Brave”— a video mash-up of Cyndi Lauper’s “True Colors” and Sara Bareilles’ “Brave”—helping TODAY  anchor 
Hoda Kotb’s Shine a Light initiative raise more than $500,000 for the fight against pediatric cancer$2 MILLION+
Estimated value of toys donated through the 2014 TODAY  Toy 
Drive, which brings our 21-year total to approximately  
$395 million, benefiting millions of disadvantaged children
19  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  This is the unique power of what we 
do. Comcast NBCUniversal combines media and technology in ways that raise 
people’s awareness of critical issues, 
invite them into the conversation, and enable them to act.
We have an unmatched ability to reach 
viewers worldwide through television, 
film, digital video, and the Web. This 
creates opportunities for us to be a catalyst for greater social change than we could ever hope to achieve on our 
own. We use our multimedia platforms 
and expertise to focus attention on others who are making a positive 
difference in communities.
Our news coverage regularly highlights 
people and organizations working 
to address education, nutrition, healthcare, and social justice issues. Our company and employees also get 
directly involved in promoting worthy 
causes, such as through the Shine a Light initiative launched by NBC’s 
TODAY . Each TODAY  anchor and host 
chooses a nonprofit to support on air. Last year, for example, co-host Hoda 
Kotb helped raise more than $500,000 
for the American Cancer Society to fight 
pediatric cancer.
Every day, we must compete to earn 
the attention and trust of audiences 
with wide-ranging backgrounds, 
beliefs, and values. Our success hinges on bringing diverse content to our 
viewers consistently, authentically, and 
accessibly. We meet these challenges by making deliberate choices about 
not only what stories we tell, but 
also how they get told and who tells them. Diversity in our workplace — 
starting with the people we attract 
and extending through the values we uphold — helps us genuinely reflect our 
audiences’ richly varied perspectives on 
both sides of the camera.
Our corporate values and our roots in 
thousands of local communities drive  
us to seek new ways of applying  
media to educate, motivate, and  
unite our audiences. 
 IN THIS SECTION
21Planting Seeds of Hope  
and Change
23The Changing Face of Movies
25Raising Awareness with  
Real Stories
27What’s New
INSPIRING CHANGE  
THROUGH MEDIA
Media is an energizing force. It informs us, inspires us, and creates shared experiences that can 
make the world seem both larger and smaller at once. Perspectives broaden. Fresh ideas emerge. Audiences respond with individual and collective actions that generate far-reaching impact.
20  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
MSNBC’s Growing Hope initiative asked people to share short 
personal notes about their hopes for change in their communities. 
The response was substantial: Thousands of participants wrote 
about issues such as ensuring equal opportunity for women and 
girls, giving people access to nutritious food, and protecting the 
voting rights of every American.
We collected and displayed these hopes 
on our Growing Hope website and at 
several Growing Hope events in cities 
around the country — the first steps in an 
ongoing campaign to spark meaningful 
action in communities nationwide.
“We’ve always believed a huge part of 
our network is about giving voice to the voiceless,” says Sharon Otterman, one of 
the founders of the initiative and a former MSNBC executive. “With Growing Hope, 
we’re giving people a meaningful way to 
participate in a larger conversation.”
The initiative grew out of MSNBC’s 
participation in the 2013 Essence 
Festival in New Orleans, where we 
asked attendees to write their hopes for 
the country’s future on small “leaves” attached to a series of Hope “trees.” 
Hundreds of people took this opportunity to 
communicate their hopes in a positive way.
The Growing Hope team, who had 
expected most people to write a 
word or two, were blown away by the 
thoughtfulness of the submissions.  
They were funny, heartfelt, passionate, 
and proud — everything you’d expect  
from people who care deeply about  
their communities.
Buoyed by the response, MSNBC 
launched the multi-market Growing Hope 
tour in March 2014, accompanied by a 
website with a digital Growing Hope tree. 
The tour stopped at local festivals and 
college campuses across the country, 
where attendees were invited to not only share their thoughts, but also connect 
with other members of their community. Each attendee who added a hope was given an Arbor Day Foundation gift tree, which they could use to beautify and better the environment in their neighborhoods.
I HOPE … 
“That those who are seeking 
nourishment are able to 
receive the food necessary  
to sustain a healthy life.”15,000+
Submissions to Growing Hope  
through the end of 2014
PLANTING SEEDS  
OF HOPE AND 
CHANGE
In today’s politically charged 24-hour news 
culture, the voices of average individuals can 
easily be drowned out or go unnoticed. In 2014, 
we invited Americans to make themselves 
heard on the issues they care about most — 
and we not only listened, but also shared their perspectives with others across the country.
Attendees add their hopes to the display at one of the Growing Hope tour stops in 2014. 
INSPIRING CHANGE THROUGH MEDIA
21  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Attendees at the first few Growing Hope 
tour stops responded enthusiastically. “Being at the event made me realize how 
many people feel the same way I do, and 
gave me hope that we can be a catalyst for change,” read one comment from a participant. Another said, “It makes me feel like I can make a difference, and that starts with being heard.”
Our long-term objective is to inspire 
people to turn their hopes into actions. 
In late 2014, MSNBC partnered with 
the nonprofit Net Impact on the Growing Hope Challenge, in which students competed to find innovative solutions to three of the country’s most 
critical challenges: increasing female 
participation in science, technology, engineering, and math fields; combating hunger; and increasing access to 
renewable energy. The challenge 
supports Net Impact’s mission of empowering students and professionals to drive social and environmental change throughout their careers. 
The winning entry in each category 
received a cash grant and free travel 
and registration to the 2015 Net Impact 
conference in Seattle (see sidebar). Other action-oriented Growing Hope programs are in the works for 2015  
and beyond. 
 
 
Learn more about MSNBC’s  
Growing Hope at  
msnbc.com/growing-hope.SPARKING CHANGE WITH THE GROWING HOPE CHALLENGE 
For the inaugural Growing Hope Challenge, we asked students to come up  
with innovative solutions to some of America’s biggest challenges. Here are  
the winners.
Growing opportunities for women  
and girls in STEM
TEAM HY(PI*TIA) : Nefeli Mourti, Thanasis 
Stratiotis, and Aracelis Torres  
— Baruch College in New York
The team came up with Hy(pi*tia), an online 
game in which girls take on the personas of 
famous women in STEM careers and help 
them solve challenges. The game sparks 
players’ interest in STEM education by 
showing how science and technology skills 
can apply to a range of appealing jobs.
Increasing access to renewable energy
TEAM CHARGERAGE:  Claire Dooley,  
Heather Hochrein, and Kelsey Johnson  
— University of California, Santa Barbara
The team’s ChargeRage concept 
encourages the use of hybrids and electric cars by bundling parking, charging, and 
access to guaranteed renewable energy in urban areas, helping reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
Using technology to fight hunger  
and malnourishment
TEAM FRESHSPIRE:  Mona Amin, Gabrielle 
Beaudry, Shraddha Rathod, Hannah Sloan, and Jennifer Wu  
— East Carolina University, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, North Carolina State University, and the University of Pennsylvania 
Team FreshSpire proposed a mobile app 
that alerts consumers when grocers discount produce that is nearing its pull date, giving low-income communities access to nutritious foods at more affordable prices. 
Joy Reid of MSNBC takes a “selfie” with Growing Hope attendees at the 2014 Essence Festival in New Orleans.I HOPE … 
“People realize that the 
pollution they make ultimately 
comes back to them, and their 
actions do have an impact.”I HOPE … 
”That governments are finally 
learning that rehabilitation,  
not incarceration, is more effective.”I HOPE … 
“That everyone has the chance 
to speak up and take part in 
shaping politics. I believe we  
all have a voice and a right  
to vote.”
INSPIRING CHANGE THROUGH MEDIA  | Planting Seeds of Hope and Change
22  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Last year, 70% of theatrical revenue came from overseas markets. 
Hispanics — who represent 17% of the U.S. population — bought one out of every four movie tickets in this country. And in 2013, minorities made up 46% of U.S. moviegoing audiences.
PROMOTING DIVERSITY
Universal was one of the first studios to 
establish a marketing team dedicated to multicultural audiences. In the process, 
this team has helped sharpen our 
approach to diverse entertainment content.
“We want to put out an invitation, one 
that’s culturally relevant and organic to the way our audiences consume their media,” says Fabian Castro, Senior Vice 
President of Multicultural Marketing at 
Universal Pictures. “And at the very heart of the stories we deliver is a commitment to including diverse voices.”
Fabian leads this team, whose marketing 
efforts are geared toward not only attracting multicultural viewers, but  
also promoting diverse content and talent in our movies. “Many of our films actually help to define popular culture,” he says. “And when that’s the case, they need to tell stories that reflect and identify with 
our diverse audiences.” CREATING WITH DIVERSITY
The broad appeal of the Fast & Furious  
film franchise is a high-profile example 
of how culture and creative forces can 
align. In 2013, Fast & Furious 6 grossed 
more than $788 million worldwide, driving strong attendance across all demographics. The incredibly diverse Fast & Furious “family” features strong male 
and female characters across ethnicities 
in lead roles, ensuring the audience can see themselves in the story.
Making films that appeal to a rapidly 
growing multicultural audience — in the United States and around the 
world — requires authentic storytelling 
that reflects moviegoers’ experiences. To capture these ideas authentically, we champion diversity behind the camera through partnerships with 
minority filmmakers and by cultivating 
opportunities for emerging minority screenwriters to gain invaluable experience in the industry. (Read more about this on page 24.)
In 2014, Universal Pictures launched 
a partnership with prominent African American filmmaker Will Packer following a successful collaboration on Ride Along. A sequel to Ride Along is due in 2016.
Also last year, we released Get on Up, a 
biopic about legendary entertainer James 
Brown. In August 2015, we will release 
Straight Outta Compton — produced by Dr. Dre and Ice Cube — about N.W.A, a seminal group of the Southern California 
rap scene in the 1980s. In 2016, director 
Malcolm D. Lee will bring back a homegrown Universal Pictures hit series with the release of The Best Man Wedding.
“The multicultural audience keeps on 
getting stronger and stronger, to the point where diverse moviegoers actually 
are our mainstream audience,” says 
Fabian. “That creates a lot of exciting opportunities, not just in how we market films but also in how we produce that content and have unique voices telling 
the stories.” 
THE CHANGING 
FACE OF MOVIES
American moviemaking is constantly evolving, 
pushing the envelope on scientific and technical 
achievements that propel storytelling while 
constantly creating storylines that match the 
interests of moviegoers. One of the biggest 
transformations in our industry today isn’t playing 
out behind the scenes or onscreen, but instead  
in theater seats around the country.
A scene from Get on Up, the 2014 biopic about singer James Brown.
INSPIRING CHANGE THROUGH MEDIA
23  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
CULTIVATING TOMORROW’S 
TALENT — TODAY
As an up-and-coming screenwriter, 
Chandus Jackson was looking to make the leap from indie shorts to big-screen 
blockbusters. 
One hurdle standing in his way: access 
to the studio system — a big obstacle 
for anyone, but one that’s especially challenging for women and minorities looking to break into the industry. 
Chandus’ odds of writing the next 
summer smash are a bit better now. 
He’s one of five writers selected from 
among nearly 800 applicants for Universal Pictures’ Emerging Writers Fellowship (EWF). Launched in 2013, the program identifies and develops writers 
whose voices are crucial to the future of 
our studio and industry. The writers are experienced, with diverse and distinct voices, and in many cases have received formal training and some professional 
writing opportunities. But they have not 
yet had a feature-length script produced through a major studio. 
“These writers have been working with 
passion and commitment for years. They just need that one opportunity to 
write for a major studio,” says Heather 
Washington, who manages the EWF. 
Starting in May 2014, Chandus had the 
opportunity to work on-site at Universal. Along with learning the inner workings of a studio, the fellows connect with executives, industry experts, and 
representatives who might help them 
establish a successful career in film.
“These writers are fully immersed in the 
studio and the creative process,” Heather says. “They’re here every day, building relationships within and beyond the 
program.”
Fellows participate in workshops, 
development meetings, and networking 
events. Each is also assigned two mentors — from a host of influential producers, directors, and writers —  
to help them complete an intense  
series of writing assignments. Chandus is working alongside Chris Morgan,  
who most recently wrote the screenplay for Furious 7, and David Goyer, writer on 
the upcoming Batman v. Superman: Dawn of Justice.
Chandus says that working creatively 
under specific expectations and tight deadlines has honed his skills. “I’ve learned to become more strategic as a 
writer, vetting my own material to see 
how it will fit with what the studio is looking for,” he says.
And writers get to cultivate their 
storytelling chops as they gain a 
prized Hollywood asset: exposure. 
“We’re helping them develop personal networks to showcase their talent, style, strengths, and skills so they’ll be considered for future studio 
assignments,” Heather says.Before the fellowship even finished, 
Chandus had already become a program success story. He’s signed with a literary 
manager and agent to jump-start the 
next phase of his career. 
Chandus Jackson (left) visits with Furious 7 screenwriter Chris Morgan, one of his mentors in the Emerging Writers 
Fellowship program.
“I’ve learned to 
become more 
strategic as a  
writer, vetting my own material to see 
how it will fit with 
what the studio is 
looking for.”
— Chandus Jackson
INSPIRING CHANGE THROUGH MEDIA  | The Changing Face of Movies
24  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
“Indians are leading the way in places where the rest of the world 
should probably follow,” says Michael Roberts, President of First Nations. “There is a real story to be told about all the great things that are happening and the positive role models that are coming  
out of Indian country.”
However, making that story heard can be 
a challenge for a nonprofit that lacks the resources and reach to share it broadly. 
First Nations knew what its message 
was — but it needed help bridging the gap between insight and access. 
With Comcast NBCUniversal’s support, 
First Nations created and aired two public service announcements 
(PSAs) that have reached millions of 
U.S. viewers. These messages are fueling a cultural shift toward viewing Native Americans as contemporary contributors and strengthening efforts 
to spur economic development in Native 
American communities. 
Promoting the work of nonprofit partners 
through PSAs is a key way we use our media expertise and airtime to make a positive impact in communities —  
and in the case of First Nations,  
make a difference for a group that is 
frequently invisible.
“We know how impactful television 
can be,” says Charisse R. Lillie, Vice 
President of Community Investment for Comcast Corporation and President of the Comcast Foundation. “Whether 
in person or online, people like to talk 
about what they’ve seen on TV and how it made them feel, think, and take action. That’s the power of PSAs.”
We donate hundreds of millions of 
dollars of PSA airtime each year and, depending on the size of the nonprofit 
partner, provide financial support for 
production expenses. We also connect organizations with the right resources to capture their vision and communicate 
their story. 
“Our PSA support empowers our 
partners to tell the stories they want 
to tell, in their own way, with their own voice, in support of their mission,” Charisse says. “We provide the medium; 
they provide the message.”
With a $20,000 check for production 
costs and an introduction to a seasoned 
video crew, First Nations created one PSA that uses seeds to explain how nourishing traditional knowledge creates 
growth and solutions for today, and 
another that focuses on the value of self-
RAISING 
AWARENESS  
WITH REAL STORIES
Many Native Americans are tremendously successful 
in today’s modern world — and yet they are 
often portrayed as historical relics. First Nations 
Development Institute and other Native American 
organizations are working to change this perception.
$265 MILLION+
Value of airtime donated for PSAsFirst Nations Development Institute worked closely with Comcast NBCUniversal to create two highly successful public service announcements promoting the 
accomplishments of Native Americans.
INSPIRING CHANGE THROUGH MEDIA
25  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
sufficiency. Together, they build the case 
that Native American communities can be successful and support themselves 
economically when they get to do it on 
their own terms.   
The initial PSA aired in 13 different 
markets, and the follow-up aired in 30 markets. First Nations saw an almost immediate increase in website traffic, 
and Michael credits the PSAs with 
attracting several large donations  
as well.
“That’s a lot of exposure that I couldn’t 
have imagined buying in my lifetime,” Michael says. “That kind of awareness was invaluable for us.” More importantly, 
he says, the PSAs have garnered a 
positive response both within Native American communities and among  
the general public.
“Although it’s hard to measure the 
effect in terms of specific numbers, 
many people have told me that these 
messages are helping raise self-esteem in Indian Country and broader interest in Native American issues,” he says.This latest PSA project is just one of many collaborations between Comcast NBCUniversal and Native American 
communities. We also joined forces 
with actor and nonprofit leader Sonny Skyhawk on several PSAs, including one starring golf analyst Notah Begay and his NB3 Foundation. That spot focuses 
on the importance of children’s health in 
achieving long-term goals.
“Comcast has done so much for Indian 
Country over the past few years,” Michael says. “They’re not doing it for a marketing windfall. They’re doing it 
because it’s the right thing to do.” 
 
View the First Nations PSAs at  
youtube.com/watch?v=4mjF_XvU1bs  
and  youtube.com/watch?v=-aHYFAtYJ1U.A scene from one of the PSAs, created by First Nations Development Institute, that have helped increase traffic on the nonprofit organization’s website and spur 
economic development in Native American communities.
“Comcast has done 
so much for Indian 
Country over the 
past few years. 
They’re not doing  
it for a marketing 
windfall. They’re 
doing it because  it’s the right thing  
to do.”
— Michael Roberts  
President  
First Nations Development Institute
INSPIRING CHANGE THROUGH MEDIA  | Raising Awareness with Real Stories
26  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
STANDING UP TO 
BULLYING, ONE TWEET AT A TIME
According to the Cyberbullying 
Research Center, one in four young people says they’ve experienced hurtful 
behaviors online — which can lead to 
low self-esteem, anger, frustration, and suicidal thoughts. As part of our efforts to fight online bullying and promote positive online behaviors, we supported 
the Center on Media and Child Health 
at Boston Children’s Hospital in launching postingpositive.org and yllub.org (“bully” spelled backward), 
which encouraged teens and their 
parents to stand up to online bullying and promote stories of good.
The sites invited social media users 
to share photos of acts of kindness, celebrate positive actions that praise people rather than put them down, and 
post affirming comments such as these:
Making memories with a friend is never 
a waste of time. #friendship
“U can only watch injustice go on 4 
so long until you’re compelled to say something. To speak out against it.”  
— @macklemore #postingpositive
Kindness is the language which the deaf 
can hear and the blind can see  
— Mark Twain #postingpositive
The sites were part of our anti-bullying efforts in 2014. In October, we launched a Social & Emotional section on our award-winning Parent Toolkit website (parenttoolkit.com). Produced by 
NBC News’ Education Nation and sponsored by Pearson, the world’s largest education company, the section features guides — broken down by grade level — to help parents improve their children’s emotional competency, 
relationship building, and social skills. 
The section also features insights and advice from teachers, academic experts, and renowned research centers, including the Yale Center for Emotional 
Intelligence and the Rutgers Social-
Emotional Learning Lab. 
THE GOOD  
NEIGHBOR APP
People say close-knit neighborhoods make them feel safer and more content. Yet busy schedules and 
changes in neighborhood design can 
make it difficult to stay connected. We set out to change that in January 2014 with EveryBlock.com, a free website and mobile app that gives users the full 
scoop on everything that’s going on in 
their neighborhoods.
Launched in Chicago, Denver, Houston, 
Philadelphia, and the Boston area, EveryBlock’s personalized news feed makes it easy for users to communicate 
with neighbors, share what’s happening 
on their block, and discover interesting content from around the community. EveryBlock gathers tidbits such as neighborhood-related news, restaurant 
reviews, event information, crime data, 
blog posts, and more. 
We helped launch the websites postingpositive.org and yllub.org to fight online bullying and encourage 
young people to practice positive online behaviors.
WHAT’S
NEW
INSPIRING CHANGE THROUGH MEDIA  | What’s New
27  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
SUPPORTING 
CHAMPIONS FOR CHANGE
After witnessing too many of her 
friends being harassed online, Jasmine Babers made it her mission to build 
the self-esteem of teenage girls. At 
the age of 15, she founded Love, GIRLS Magazine, which features articles about the struggles and accomplishments of individual girls in addition to exercise, 
fashion, school, and life tips.
Jasmine was among 10 recipients of 
our 2014 Characters Unite Awards, inspired by USA Network’s award-winning Characters Unite public service program. The annual awards 
honor extraordinary individuals who 
promote tolerance, acceptance, and respect in their communities. Honorees received $5,000 grants from USA Network and participating distributors 
and were featured on air in PSAs, at 
charactersunite.com, in social media, and at hometown award ceremonies.
Along with running her magazine, 
Jasmine leads community-wide anti-bullying events, produced an all-female 
theater production called Lessons in 
Love, and coordinates the annual Love 
Awards to honor the achievements of local girls. Her fellow Characters Unite honorees included Jerald White, founder 
of the New Orleans Loving Festival, 
which challenges racism through outreach and education; and Tashmica Torok of the Firecracker Foundation in Lansing, Michigan, which provides 
support and resources to children who 
have survived sexual trauma.  
See the complete list of winners at   
charactersunite.com/initiatives/usa-unites-
awards/award-winners .HELPING MILITARY 
FAMILIES TAKE CONTROL OF THEIR FINANCES
From logging in to U.S. accounts  
while overseas to maintaining 
a balanced budget during their 
deployment, military families face 
complex financial challenges. NBC News and Citi are helping service members navigate the financial impact arising from deployments 
and relocations with the free e-book 
Operation Money: A Financial Guide for Military Service Members and Families (nbcpublishing.com/book/55). Authored 
by Jean Chatzky, financial editor of NBC’s TODAY , the e-book features a 
step-by-step guide to reducing debt, information on the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, and tips on military service 
clauses in lease contracts. 
 
Jasmine Babers was among those receiving $5,000 in our 2014 Characters Unite Awards, which 
honored individuals for promoting tolerance, acceptance, and respect in their communities.
NBC News and Citi created a free e-book that helps military veterans and their families deal with financial issues arising from deployments and relocations. WHAT’S
NEW
INSPIRING CHANGE THROUGH MEDIA  | What’s New
28  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
VIDEO BRINGS  
UNITED WAY 
CAMPAIGN TO LIFE 
Sometimes the most meaningful media 
we produce are the stories we share  
with and about our very own employees. 
In the case of our commitment to  
United Way, a compelling original  
video connected with employees and 
inspired them to donate — for very personal reasons.
The video profiled three Comcast 
NBCUniversal employees who did more 
than just share their stories of how each of them benefited from United Way. They put real and familiar faces on some of the challenges facing our communities. 
Veronica Wright, an administrative 
assistant for XFINITY Home in Philadelphia, was one of those faces.
Twenty years ago, Veronica was raising 
a family as a single mother, juggling everyday expenses like rent, day care, food, and utilities, when she learned 
about Habitat for Humanity, a United 
Way–supported organization that helps families find safe, affordable homes. 
She applied to the program and soon 
found herself working alongside Habitat volunteers to renovate what would 
become her new home. Veronica’s 
personal connection to United Way is one reason she still participates in the annual campaign. “I give because I know firsthand the impact that United Way can 
have on a person’s life,” Veronica says.
Veronica’s story and those of two 
other employees stirred tremendous 
response and outreach from Comcast NBCUniversal employees everywhere.  
“I was so touched by the emails and phone calls, especially from people I’d never met,” Veronica says. And in 2014, our 
employees set a company record with  
$7 million in pledges. These donations, 
along with $1.9 million in matching grants from the Comcast Foundation, resulted in $9 million in support to United Way and 
the local organizations it supports.
Comcast’s founder, Ralph Roberts, 
chose United Way as our first community 
partner in 1963. This relationship —  
and our pledge to communities — keeps growing. Since 2001, our employees and the Comcast Foundation have given 
United Way more than $67 million in 
total support.
When our employees give to United Way, 
they may never know the people they are helping. Or in some cases, they might be helping someone who works just down 
the hall.  Watch the video at corporate.comcast.com/
comcast-voices/why-our-employees-give-to-
united-way .A video produced for our annual United Way giving campaign profiled three Comcast NBCUniversal 
employees who have benefited from the organizations that United Way supports.
WHAT’S
NEW
INSPIRING CHANGE THROUGH MEDIA  | What’s New
29  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
EMPOWERING 
OUR PEOPLE  
 TO INNOVATE
5 MILLION+
XFINITY X1 boxes equipped with 
integrated media ratings and reviews from Common Sense Media that are in customers’ homes, helping families filter thousands of age-appropriate movies and shows for their children 3,600+
Number of military veterans we’ve hired since 2012 as part of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation’s Hiring Our Heroes initiative — furthering our efforts to attract and support talented employees with diverse experiences and backgrounds100+
U.S. patents granted to Comcast in 2014; this number has risen in each of the past five years
30  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  It’s about how we come together to 
solve problems. Challenge ourselves  to think differently. Choose risk instead 
of regularity.
Our employees supply the innovative 
thought and actions behind everything 
Comcast NBCUniversal offers. In order to attract and keep the most talented people in our industry, we have to create 
an environment that encourages and 
rewards bold ideas for improving  
our business. 
We believe that hiring people with diverse 
backgrounds and experiences is crucial for challenging our conventional attitudes and guiding us to new areas of innovation. 
For the same reason, we also seek out 
diverse suppliers to help us uncover smart approaches to satisfying our customers and audiences. (Learn more about Comcast NBCUniversal’s diversity and 
inclusion plans, initiatives, and progress 
in our 2014 Diversity Report at corporate.comcast.com/diversityreport.)Our 139,000-plus employees bring vast reserves of creativity and intellect to our company. We support their professional 
growth through an array of programs, 
and we encourage them to speak up about better ways of doing what we do. Making time to ask, listen, and respond to our employees through programs like 
The Idea — which generated thousands 
of responses last year — shows us possibilities in our business that might never have surfaced otherwise.
For us to continue growing and evolving 
in the decades to come, we must also be 
innovative about integrating sustainable 
practices across our business and reducing our demands on the world’s limited resources. Our employees, our customers, and our relationships with 
thousands of local communities remind 
us that our business and sustainability objectives are inseparable. This perspective helps lead us to solutions that fulfill both sets of goals — from 
designing cloud-connected set-top 
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE  
TO INNOVATE
In our drive to give viewers and customers more of what they want — content, choices, control,  
freedom — innovation is a must. While others may measure this by the technologies we create  
or the stories we deliver, for us, innovation is rooted in far more personal ground.
IN THIS SECTION
32What’s the Big Idea?
34A CORE Career Experience
36‘Mid-Century Swank’ with  
a 21st-Century Perspective
38Building a Smarter Energy Future
40What’s New
cable boxes that use less electricity, 
to adopting more reliable and energy-efficient technologies in our Smarter 
Network and data centers.
As long as someone can imagine a 
better way of satisfying our customers 
and growing our business, Comcast NBCUniversal will always have reasons to innovate. We stay on course by giving 
our employees the room — and the 
incentives — to relentlessly pursue what’s next. 
31  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
A National Account Coordinator for Comcast Spotlight in San 
Francisco, Nathan figures there are a thousand ways to get to the end result. “You constantly innovate to figure out the quickest, simplest, most beneficial way for all parties to get there,” he says. “My daily work is typically one little puzzle after another. I’m always looking for a better way to get something done.”
Nathan used that same approach to win 
The Idea, our employee engagement program launched in 2014. Modeled after 
The Voice, NBC’s hit television show, The 
Idea challenged our more than 139,000 employees around the world to come up with the next big idea to make our company better.
“We have so many talented and engaged 
employees with really good ideas — 
they just haven’t always known how to share them more broadly,” says Maggie Suniewick, Senior Vice President of Strategic Integration for Comcast 
NBCUniversal and chief organizer of 
the competition. “What better way to innovate than to tap into the power of our employee base? That’s what really struck a nerve.”More than 200 submissions came within two hours of announcing the program. Ultimately, we received nearly 3,000 ideas 
— big and small — for enhancing the 
customer experience or driving innovation and new business opportunities. The review process was blind; judges could see only the idea and an employee ID number. 
After choosing the top 25 submissions, 
program organizers matched each idea with the employee responsible — and discovered something interesting.
Those 25 semifinalists reflected virtually 
every demographic, job level, business, 
and location across the company. And 
many of the ideas had nothing in common with what these employees do day-to-day.
Nathan’s inspiration stemmed from 
the simplest of sources: a Post-it
® note his parents keep by their television to remind them of shows and movies they want to watch. Puzzle solver that he is, Nathan figured there had to be an easier way to create, track, and share a list of 
entertainment content.
He dubbed his idea Watch.It, a 
personalized and customizable content management tool. Available as a mobile or desktop app, it would allow users to integrate their tastes 
and interests into their viewing Nathan Kalish reacts to winning The Idea, a competition that challenged our employees worldwide to pitch innovative ways of making Comcast NBCUniversal better .
“What better way to 
innovate than to tap 
into the power of our 
employee base? 
That’s what really 
struck a nerve.”
— Maggie Suniewick  
Senior Vice President  
Strategic Integration  
Comcast NBCUniversal
WHAT’S THE  
BIG IDEA? 
Every puzzle has a solution.  
That’s how Nathan Kalish  
approaches his job every day.
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE
32  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
experience, on their schedule. With 
one idea, Nathan seamlessly blended Comcast NBCUniversal’s technology 
platforms, services, programming, and 
entertainment.
Nathan joined the other semifinalists 
in New York, where each worked with a coach to help hone and polish a two-minute pitch. From inside Studio 8G —  
home of Late Night with Seth Meyers — employees presented their ideas to a panel of our executives.
Based on these pitches, the top 10 
finalists returned the next day to pitch to just two judges: NBCUniversal CEO Steve Burke and Comcast Cable President and 
CEO Neil Smit, who jointly selected the 
top three ideas. Those employees then had a chance to define and defend their ideas in a spirited back-and-forth with both CEOs.
That can be a lot of pressure for 
someone not used to dealing with the 
C-suite on a regular basis. “It was definitely intimidating at first — the studio, cameras, lights, all the senior executives,” says Nathan. “But looking 
around, I realized I wasn’t the only 
nervous person there. And I was being treated as a peer, so that helped calm  
my nerves.”Since winning the inaugural competition, Nathan has served as informal advisor to the Comcast product team working to realize his idea. Meanwhile, organizers of The Idea continue to review all of last 
year’s submissions and present them to 
our various business leaders for possible future development.
A cross-company working group is in 
the process of launching an intranet site where employees can submit ideas year-round. “We want to provide even more 
opportunities — a living, ongoing platform 
of new business ideas,” Maggie says.Nathan recognizes how critical it is for a company our size to look beyond the usual places for solutions. “Technology 
changes too quickly to assume we have 
all the answers. We have to look to employees and consumers to identify needs and challenges,” he says. “And  
if we want to adapt and grow, we need  
to respond.”
As for his experience with The Idea? 
Nathan wouldn’t change a thing.
“The Idea wasn’t just a fun employee 
contest. It was a legitimate channel to encourage talent and develop ideas,”  
he says. “They listened, and they took  
it seriously.”
Maybe by this time next year, Nathan’s 
folks can get rid of that sticky note.  
Nathan Kalish (left) won last year’s inaugural The Idea competition with his concept for an app that would help consumers integrate their interests into their  
TV viewing experience. Maggie Suniewick (second from right), chief organizer of The Idea, and her fellow judges listen to a presentation in the semifinals.
“The Idea wasn’t just 
a fun employee 
contest. It was a 
legitimate channel 
to encourage talent 
and develop ideas. 
They listened,  
and they took it 
seriously.”
— Nathan Kalish  
Winner of The Idea
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE | What’s the Big Idea?
33  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
“Usually, you spend a lot more time in the weeds early on in your 
career and don’t get a chance to see the forest for the trees until later,” Hans says. “I’ve gained a lot of experience and have overcome some of those initial hurdles to establishing myself as a developer.”
As a member of Comcast NBCUniversal’s 
CORE (Career Opportunities & Rotational Experiences) Technology program, Hans helped build the theme park’s WiFi 
network and create new measurement 
tools to assess its effectiveness. He also examined ways of using new technologies to understand how people move through the park and how long the lines are — vital information for long-term planning.
“Coming in right out of school, you 
don’t have all the tools you need for the specific business you’re going into,” says Hans, who entered the rotational program in 2013 after graduating from Drexel University with a master’s in telecommunications and electrical engineering. “CORE Technology has given 
me opportunities to learn how to apply 
technology in a broad sense.”
Launched in 2013, CORE Technology brings recent college graduates into 
our company to develop their technical, 
professional, and leadership skills over a 
two-year period. Amid fierce competition for programmers and engineers in our industry, CORE Technology offers a uniquely broad experience that helps 
attract — and keep — tomorrow’s 
innovators and leaders. The program rotates individuals through different 
sectors of the organization, enabling 
them to work on a range of projects in  
a number of different capacities.
CORE associates get to travel widely and 
see multiple parts of the business in action, which was particularly appealing for Hans. He has spent time in Los 
Angeles designing our Digital Screening 
Room, a mechanism for storing, managing, and processing digital video; and in Philadelphia, where he is working 
on the XFINITY TV Go app for streaming TV shows and movies to customers’ 
mobile devices.
The exposure to diverse teams, 
businesses, and ways of solving technical issues has been invaluable, Hans says.
“It’s encouraged me to keep an open 
mind about how to approach certain problems,” he says. “Seeing the different 
specific solutions people have come up 
with, I’m just more aware of the potential differences when I start working with other groups.”
Other CORE Technology associates agree 
the program creates opportunities that A CORE CAREER 
EXPERIENCE 
For six memorable months, Hans Formon’s path 
to work at Universal Studios Orlando wound him 
past a stomach-dropping roller coaster and within 
wand’s reach of the theme park’s HogsmeadeTM 
Station attraction. But even for this longtime Harry 
Potter fan, the most enchanting part of his stint 
at Universal Orlando was building one-of-a-kind career experiences.
Hans Formon says the CORE Technology professional development program has given him invaluable experience on a broad range of projects. 
$186 MILLION
Our 2014 investment in employee 
training and development
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE
34  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
wouldn’t have been available otherwise. 
Devaki Dikshit started coding in high school, practicing her C++ skills by 
programming small cars to move from 
point A to point B. She went on to earn a master’s in computer engineering from George Washington University and is midway through the CORE Technology 
program. She says she can’t even count 
the number of new technologies she’s touched, but the bigger benefit to her has been the confidence she’s built.
“Being a junior engineer, you get very few 
chances to express a strong opinion,” she 
says. “CORE helped me to ask questions 
and make my thoughts known without being scared.”
Through the program, Devaki has worked 
with the core applications platform team on software used to store and deliver On Demand video content. She 
was also invited to participate in our 
TECHWomen conference, which brought together 100 of our female technologists from around the world. Devaki sat on a panel representing millennial women in engineering — giving her speaking exposure that isn’t often afforded to young professionals.
Both Hans and Devaki want to translate 
their skills and expertise into long-term 
careers with the company. Devaki, who 
has management aspirations, envisions working on the team responsible for broadening our WiFi network to reach new continents. Hans wants to continue 
expanding and honing his technology skills.
“I’ve had a lot of really great experiences 
and become a much more valuable developer,” he says. “I want to stay at Comcast NBCUniversal because I have 
gained a lot here.” 
Learn more about CORE Technology 
and other professional development 
opportunities at jobs.comcast.com/Campus-
Programs/Internships-and-rotational-
programs .
“Being a junior engineer, you get very few 
chances to express a strong opinion. CORE 
helped me to ask questions and make my 
thoughts known without being scared.”
— Devaki Dikshit  
CORE Technology Associate  
Class of 2016
Hans Formon (second from right) meets with colleagues during one of his rotations in the CORE 
Technology professional development program.
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE | A CORE Career Experience
35  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
But when Executive Project Director Russ Dagon sought a team of 
architects, designers, and suppliers to execute Universal Creative’s vision, he decided the retro theme should only go so far. He 
wanted 21st-century perspectives from a talented team of diverse 
professionals to go with the vintage look. 
“It’s really easy to get into a room with like-
minded people from similar backgrounds and turn out something fast,” Russ says. 
“But it’s when you work with people from 
diverse backgrounds that things get interesting. People start to challenge you and each other, and you often wind up with 
a better product in the end.” 
And a better product he received.
Universal chose Daroff Design in 
Philadelphia as the lead interior 
designer because of founder Karen 
Daroff’s strong vision for the project and her 26-year relationship as a design partner with Comcast NBCUniversal. 
Karen and her talented team, in turn, 
helped Russ staff the project with a varied network of designers and 
contractors, including a number of 
women- and minority-owned firms. “We made a conscious effort to create diverse teams,” Karen says. “Talent, capabilities, and work ethic obviously 
came first, but we also put a high value 
on inclusiveness with Cabana Bay.” 
Russ says diversity pays off in countless 
ways. “It’s often as simple as saying, ‘Well, I’d use this room differently,’” he explains. “We spend a great deal of effort 
assuring that our guest rooms have 
sufficient lighting for applying make-up. This is something that a lot of men don’t 
even know can be an issue.”
Considering different cultural preferences 
also helps in suite design, adds Russ. “I’ve 
had my eyes opened many times working 
on projects with people of different races and religious beliefs. Many cultures travel 
with extended families, and we have to be 
ready to accommodate them.” The resort, as Russ likes to say, looks “like 
the early, happy seasons of Mad Men.” 
Working with diverse suppliers on 
projects like Cabana Bay has long been a win-win scenario for Comcast NBCUniversal. We benefit from new ideas and fresh approaches, and suppliers receive exposure to new clients and opportunities. In 2014, we spent 17% of our supplier budget on projects with women- or minority-owned businesses.$2.05 BILLION
Amount spent with diverse  
Tier I suppliers, representing  
17% of our total applicable  
procurement spending
‘MID-CENTURY SWANK’ 
WITH A 21ST-CENTURY 
PERSPECTIVE
Universal’s Cabana Bay Beach Resort is a 
throwback to the Googie architecture movement 
of the ’50s and ’60s, when crescent shapes, 
pastel colors, and Space Age motifs ruled the day. 
Deemed “mid-century swank” by Interior Design  
magazine, the resort was completed in 2014.
Numerous diverse-owned suppliers and design partners contributed to the new Cabana Bay Beach Resort at Universal Orlando Theme Park.
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE
36  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Hilary Wainer worked for CD+M 
Lighting Design Group, the lead lighting consultant for Cabana Bay 
that brought in such inspirations as 
the atomic chandeliers and ceiling installations in the lobbies and restaurants. She has since gone on to create her own lighting firm, Lux Et 
Veritas Design, and is working with  
us on our newest hotel project —  the Loews Sapphire Falls Resort  at Universal Orlando.
Russ says it’s important for Comcast 
NBCUniversal to help suppliers that 
need a foot in the door.
“Many times up-and-coming suppliers 
haven’t worked with national or high-
profile clients, but they may have excelled on smaller local projects,” he says. “We can not only give them opportunities, but we can also mentor 
them and even stretch their capabilities.”
The results speak for themselves,  
Karen says. 
“It’s so important to extend these 
types of opportunities to women- and minority-owned firms, as Comcast did 
with us many years ago,” she says. 
“You can see the value throughout the company. From the Comcast corporate headquarters to the wonderful resort hotels created by Universal, the quality 
and variety is outstanding. Obviously our 
commitment to diversity is working.” 
Learn more about our support of 
supplier diversity at corporate.comcast.
com/our-values/diversity-inclusion/supplier-
diversity .
Cabana Bay Beach Resort’s retro-
themed design includes distinctive lighting installations and atomic chandeliers conceived by Hilary Wainer and CD+M Lighting Design Group.
“We made a conscious effort to 
create diverse teams. Talent, 
capabilities, and work ethic 
obviously came first, but we 
also put a high value on 
inclusiveness with Cabana Bay.”
— Karen Daroff  
Founder  
Daroff Design
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE | ‘Mid-Century Swank’ with a 21st-Century Perspective
37  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Theresa Hennesy and John Schanz, who lead Comcast Cable’s 
energy initiatives, believe there’s no time to waste in building a more energy-efficient future. 
With Internet traffic doubling every  
18 to 24 months, and our entertainment, 
communications, and other consumer 
experiences demanding an ever-
increasing supply of new technologies, energy will always be at a premium. 
“There may not be an immediate crisis, 
but if you project this demand out over decades, we may reach a tipping point in 
terms of meeting energy demands —  and paying for them,” Theresa says.  
“We have to make proactive decisions 
now. We’ve always been innovative in  
the Internet space; now we just need  
to apply that same focus and creativity  
to the energy space.”
Here’s a glimpse at several promising 
innovations — from short-term tactical 
initiatives to long-term strategies — 
that are helping transform our energy infrastructure. John and Theresa add their 
thoughts on what these innovations mean 
for the company going forward. 
FUEL CELLS
Our 80,000-square-foot regional headquarters in Berlin, Connecticut, receives roughly 80% of its power from 
fuel cells, with the power grid acting as 
a backup. Fuel cell technology generates clean energy from hydrogen while emitting nothing but water — helping reduce our carbon footprint.
Theresa: This is our first experience  
with fuel cells. Right now we’re seeing how the technology works and whether these cells might be appropriate for other Comcast locations. But they show 
a lot of potential in helping us meet our 
critical power needs. 
SMART DATA CENTERS
Smart cooling and energy technologies are helping us improve the efficiency and performance of our data centers. 
For example, our newest data centers 
use sophisticated monitoring tools to prevent peak energy loads when demand 
Smart cooling and energy technologies are helping us improve the efficiency and performance of our data centers. 
BUILDING A  
SMARTER ENERGY 
FUTURE
Soaring energy demands are challenging 
cable operators to find new ways of reducing 
power use while still improving the customer 
experience. We are stepping up to the challenge 
by championing new, more sustainable energy 
strategies for the cable industry.
Our smart data centers circulate ambient air and recycled waste air through the raised floors and 
between the server stacks to cool the facility.
VARIABLE SPEED  
EXHAUST FAN
RAISED FLOORCEILING PLENUM
RETURN  
AIR DAMPER
CRAH GALLEYWarm airWarm air
Cool airCool air VARIABLE SPEED  
SUPPLY FAN
CHIMNEY-EQUIPPED RACKS
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE 
38  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Theresa Hennesy, Senior Vice President and 
Group Technical Advisor for Engineering and Platform Services (EPS), Comcast CableSMARTER CHOICES, SMALLER 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Other ways we reduced our environmental 
impact across Comcast NBCUniversal  in 2014: 
ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES  
Our commercial fleet includes more than 8,000 hybrid and flex-fuel vehicles, which use 
less gasoline than conventional vehicles and emit less CO
2.
IMPROVED PRINTING POLICIES  
NBCUniversal conserved  
4.5 million pages in 2014 by implementing new printing strategies across multiple 
locations.
PAPERLESS BILLING  
With more than 8.8 million enrolled customers, Comcast’s paperless 
billing option Ecobill
® saved $43 
million.
RECLAIMING WATER  
We recycled 320,000 gallons of water  using water reclamation 
practices during the filming of 
Unbroken in Queensland, Australia.
MATERIALS RECYCLING  
Comcast Cable recycled 9.2 million pounds of materials 
since launching a program to 
educate cable technicians on how to properly sort used materials and waste.
SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTIONS  
Seventeen NBCUniversal productions — including Jurassic 
World — earned Green Seals at the 
24th Annual Environmental Media Awards (EMAs), which honor sustainable production practices.increases. And our Chicago facility takes advantage of the city’s often-chilly temperatures by using outside air to cool our IT equipment. 
John: We’ve spent a lot of time thinking 
about what will happen as we offer more cloud services, increase traffic 
on our network, and improve services 
for our customers. Building energy-efficient, sustainable data centers is core to our strategy because demand 
for data is only going to grow. 
EFFICIENT SET-TOP BOXES
Select Comcast non-DVR set-top cable 
boxes used 53% less energy on average in 2014 than comparable boxes in 2009. 
We’ve also reduced the annual power 
consumption of typical HD DVR set-top boxes by 30% in the same time period.
Theresa: With tens of millions  
of customers in the United States, every improvement in the design  
of our equipment can have a big impact on our customers’ energy use. We’ve challenged ourselves and our industry to be more energy conscious when designing and building new 
consumer devices. 
CCAP BROADBAND TECHNOLOGY
We’re investing hundreds of 
millions of dollars to develop and deploy Converged Cable Access 
Platform (CCAP) broadband 
technology within our network. CCAP delivers the same bandwidth capacity as current technologies while using 40% less energy.
John: CCAP is the kind of technology that gets us really psyched about the 
future. Faster speeds and greater 
capabilities while using less energy —  
what’s not to like? 
ENERGY 2020
We’re playing a leading role in Energy 2020, an industry-wide collaboration intended to help cable companies align 
on ways to curtail energy use and costs 
in the coming decade. Organized by the Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers (SCTE) — and chaired by  
John — the initiative’s goals include 
reducing power consumption for cable 
equipment and facilities by 20%, slashing energy costs by 25%, and reducing dependency on the power grid by 10%.
John: One of the critical ingredients  
in our services is energy, and we’re not 
the only ones. All cable operators are 
in the same position. We can get so much more done working together than individually. It’s better for our industry, consumers, and ultimately  
the environment. 
Learn more about Comcast’s efforts to 
reduce energy consumption at corporate.
comcast.com/our-values/environment .
Watch a video of John Schanz and 
Theresa Hennesy discussing Energy 
2020 at scte.org/energy2020 .
John Schanz, Executive Vice President and 
Chief Network Officer , Comcast Cable
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE | Building a Smarter Energy Future
39  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
WHAT’S
NEW
MAKING XFINITY 
ACCESSIBLE FOR ALL 
About 19 million U.S. households have at 
least one member with a disability. And according to the U.S. Census Bureau, 
roughly 8.1 million people are visually 
impaired. We are committed to ensuring all customers can benefit from media and technology, so we are continuing to enhance the accessibility features of our 
XFINITY TV platform.
In 2014, we launched the industry’s 
first voice-enabled television user interface, enabling blind and visually impaired customers to search for and discover their favorite XFINITY TV 
programming. The result of years of 
customer research, focus groups, and collaboration with the blind community, the “talking guide” reads aloud channel names, networks, program titles, and 
time slots, as well as DVR and On 
Demand settings and commands.
Tom Wlodkowski, Vice President of 
Accessibility for Comcast Cable, believes that accessibility must begin on the drawing board and be baked into the 
design and development process of our 
products. “If you reach out to the disability community once the product is built, and you think you have an accessible experience, it’s too late,” says Tom.
He adds that there’s no reason the 
solutions his team pursues can’t 
influence Comcast’s broader product 
innovations. “I love it when people in the mainstream see an accessibility feature and ask for it as well,” says Tom. “It’s not just a great accessibility feature. It’s a 
great feature, period.” 
Learn more at  corporate.comcast.com/
comcast-voices/the-power-of-tv-is-universal .SPACE TO CREATE
Innovation needs room to breathe. That’s 
the theory behind the Comcast Innovation and Technology Center, a $1.2 billion, 
59-story, state-of-the art tower scheduled 
for completion in 2018 in downtown Philadelphia, next to our Comcast Center headquarters. Designed as an incubator for creativity and great ideas, the center 
will give our growing workforce of 
technologists, engineers, and software architects a space to think, brainstorm, and conjure up new ideas. In the process, 
it will advance Philadelphia’s efforts to 
become the Silicon Valley of the East. 
The largest private development project 
in the history of Pennsylvania, the Comcast Innovation and Technology Center will include highly flexible loft-like spaces and studios that encourage 
a dynamic way of working. The spaces 
are based on three unique work styles: tinkerers, who work best individually; teamers, who split their time between team and individual work; and think-tankers, who work in teams and tend to meet in enclosed and formal spaces. Together, the spaces encourage 
employees to push the boundaries  
of innovation in an energetic, inspiring 
work environment. 
In addition to housing Comcast 
innovators, the building will offer space to local technology start-ups looking 
for a progressive workspace in the city. 
The tower will also house NBC10 and Telemundo62 — creating a media center in the heart of the city — and a five-star Four Seasons hotel and restaurant with 
more than 200 rooms. Employees will 
have direct access to the SEPTA rail line, helping increase the tower’s appeal to millennials and technology workers who want to live, work, and play in a vibrant 
urban environment. 
The economic impact of the Comcast 
Innovation and Technology Center will 
be significant. The tower will generate Tom Wlodkowski (left) leads our efforts to enhance the accessibility features of XFINITY TV and other 
Comcast NBCUniversal offerings.
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE | What’s New
40  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
WHAT’S
NEW
$2.75 billion in economic activity and 
20,000 temporary jobs in the region during the construction phase alone. 
Upon completion, the center will create 
almost 4,000 new permanent jobs in Pennsylvania and 2,800 new permanent jobs within Philadelphia itself, in addition to $30 million in annual tax revenues for 
the state. 
The innovation doesn’t stop there, 
as we’re also working with the U.S. Green Building Council to attain LEED Platinum
® certification for the tower. 
Following completion, the tower and the neighboring Comcast Center will be two 
of the tallest LEED-certified buildings in 
the United States.
Alan Greenberger, Philadelphia’s deputy 
mayor for economic development, said the tower is putting innovation front and center for everyone involved. “The start-
up scene in this city is buzzing,” he says. 
“High-growth technology companies are raising serious money and rapidly expanding their workforce, and major players like Comcast are reinvesting 
in Philadelphia and creating new 
opportunities. The Comcast Innovation and Technology Center really cements Philadelphia’s place as one of America’s leading tech hubs.” 
SLIMMING THE 
POWER NEEDS OF CABLE TV BOXES
Set-top cable boxes and DVRs act as 
complete entertainment hubs for many homes. But having more features has 
traditionally meant higher energy use 
for consumers. So when Michael Cook decided to learn everything there is to know about the power draw of Comcast cable equipment, he started at — where 
else? — his house. “I built a home energy monitoring system a few years back, which tells me exactly 
how much energy my home is pulling at any given point in time,” says Michael, Vice President of Comcast’s Technology and Product Group. “I’ve connected all 
my home set-top boxes to the system. 
It helps me understand the true energy impact of our technologies.”
Reducing the power consumption of our 
set-top boxes and DVRs is a top priority for Comcast, and Michael leads the 
team that makes it happen. And under 
his leadership, it’s been happening a lot more in recent years. Cumulatively,  
our ENERGY STAR
®-certified set-top 
boxes saved more than 515 billion  
watt-hours in 2014 when measured 
against comparable boxes in 2009 —  
the greenhouse gas equivalent of 
removing more than 86,000 cars from the road for one year. And that’s just the start. Some of our most substantial 
energy innovations are only now reaching 
the market.So what does Michael believe is the most promising way to slash the power use of 
the average cable box? Look to the cloud, 
he advises.  
“The cloud is definitely our biggest 
innovation for energy savings,” he says. “Cloud servers can handle many customers at once, which means 
individual boxes and DVRs don’t have 
to carry as heavy a power load when recording programs or displaying channel guides.” We’ve been migrating many of our set-top box capabilities to 
the cloud for that reason. 
Another innovation is the team’s “deep 
sleep” work. One of the main reasons 
set-top boxes use a lot of energy is that they’re almost always on given customers’ recording desires. So we are working to create boxes that power down 
instantaneously into a deep sleep when 
not in use, and that power back up nearly as fast before a program is set to record. The key, again, is simplicity.The Comcast Innovation and Technology Center , set to open in 2018, will include loft-like spaces and 
studios that encourage a dynamic way of working.
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE | What’s New
41  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
“Some are satellite boxes for secondary 
rooms,” Michael explains. “They have no DVR at all, but connect to your main box 
via the cloud. So you don’t need to start  
a lot of things back up after sleep mode.” 
Another key to reducing energy 
consumption for set-top boxes is making standards consistent across the industry. To that end, Comcast is a 
primary supporter of the National Cable 
& Telecommunications Association’s (NCTA) voluntary energy-efficiency standards. Announced in 2014, the NCTA agreement sets ongoing energy 
targets for cable and satellite equipment. 
Although we have reduced the power requirements of our set-top boxes in each of the past five years, Michael believes the NCTA agreement is an 
important next step in defining and 
measuring success industrywide. 
“It’s difficult to tell the story of the 
industry’s progress without a well-understood definition for each type of set-top box, which you need to set baselines 
for improvement,” he says. “That hadn’t 
been done before the NCTA agreement. This is an important evolution.”
Michael knows that most of our energy 
innovations will fly under the radar of customers, who tend to focus on features and convenience rather than power 
usage. But that doesn’t make his team’s 
work any less important. “We have an obligation to do the right thing,” Michael says, “even when the customer isn’t aware of the benefits.” WHAT’S
NEW
515 BILLION
Watt-hours saved in 2014 by our ENERGY STAR-certified set-top boxes when measured against comparable boxes in 
2009 — the greenhouse gas equivalent of 
removing more than 86,000 cars from the road for one year
We are designing our latest set-top boxes to save energy by powering down instantaneously into a 
deep sleep when not in use, then powering back up nearly as fast before a program is set to record.
EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE TO INNOVATE | What’s New
42  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
ALSO IN  
THIS REPORT
CONTINUING A LEGACY OF INTEGRITY
SUPPORTING NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONSAWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
43  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  CONTINUING A LEGACY OF INTEGRITY
Integrity is the foundation of our business, and all of our employees share the responsibility to operate with the highest  
ethical standards. We promote integrity throughout our work environment and follow practices that help ensure we earn  
the trust of our customers, employees, shareholders, and the people in the communities we serve.
COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
Our compliance program fosters a 
culture of ethics and helps us respond 
to changing needs in the environment 
where we operate. We establish internal 
controls to ensure compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations as well 
as our company policies and contracts.
Arthur R. Block, Executive Vice President, 
General Counsel, and Secretary of 
Comcast, is a “high-level person” within 
the meaning of the United States 
Sentencing Guidelines and has overall 
responsibility for compliance. Jennifer 
Heller, our Chief Compliance Officer, is 
responsible for the program’s day-to-day 
operations. Arthur and Jennifer report 
regularly on the compliance program 
to our Board of Directors or appropriate 
committees of our Board. Learn more 
at corporate.comcast.com/our-values/
integrity/compliance-program. 
COMCAST LISTENS
We are committed to creating an open 
environment where our employees feel 
comfortable raising concerns and are 
not distracted by unresolved problems 
at work. Whether it is about a day-to-day 
or more significant workplace problem, 
a concern about suspected illegal or 
unethical conduct, or even an idea 
for a better way of serving customers, 
Comcast Listens offers a process to help 
all employees speak up. We encourage 
employees to report misconduct, and the 
company takes those allegations very 
seriously. We strictly prohibit retaliation 
for raising an issue.
Comcast Listens gives employees several 
different ways to report workplace or 
integrity issues, including a toll-free, 24/7 
helpline and a Web portal. An independent, 
third-party company administers the 
Comcast Listens helpline and Web portal, giving employees the option to 
remain anonymous when reporting 
issues. Concerns received through the 
Comcast Listens helpline or Web portal 
are logged, acknowledged, and, when 
necessary, investigated by a trained 
investigator from the Human Resources, 
Security, Internal Audit, or Law department. 
If an investigation confirms wrongdoing, 
we’ll take the appropriate disciplinary or 
corrective action, regardless of the position 
of the individuals involved. Learn more at 
corporate.comcast.com/our-values/
integrity/comcast-listens.
POLITICAL AND TRADE  
ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES
Participation in political activities, 
whether directly or through our 
involvement with trade associations 
or other organizations, is important to 
achieving our business objectives. All of 
our activities in this area must rigorously 
comply with applicable laws, regulations, 
and our own standards of integrity. We 
spell out our essential policy regarding 
political activities in our Code of Conduct. 
Additional details on our implementation 
and compliance activities are in the 
Comcast Corporation Statement on 
Political and Trade Association Activity.  
PRIVACY POLICY
Privacy is crucial to our customers, 
audiences, and employees. At Comcast 
NBCUniversal, we work hard to protect 
people’s privacy by implementing 
internal practices and complying with all 
applicable laws. This includes building 
products and services with privacy in mind, delivering them securely, and 
reviewing our design and delivery to 
improve them over time.
We inform people about how we use their 
information, give them choices to control 
many of those uses, and make product, privacy, security, and other support 
information available to them.
And to help fulfill our responsibilities in the 
larger discussion around individual privacy, 
we publish transparency reports to make 
clear how we handle government requests 
for information. Comcast issued its first 
transparency report in March 2014, and we 
release a new report every six months. 
Read our most recent report at  
corporate.comcast.com/comcast-
voices/comcast-releases-third-
transparency-report.
SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
NBCUniversal’s supplier social 
responsibility (SSR) audit program includes 
environmental and labor inspection 
points validating key exposure areas 
related to involuntary labor, underage 
labor, wages, working hours, working 
conditions, emergency preparedness, fire 
protection, industrial hygiene, personal 
protective equipment, waste management, 
and environmental permits. We take a 
triangulation approach to SSR audits, 
including employee interviews conducted 
globally, in-depth documentation review, 
and on-site inspection.
Our audit scope is applicable for all 
countries except Japan, Australia, and 
those in North America and Western 
Europe. At NBCUniversal, business 
units contract with licensees that select 
the factory to produce the product. We 
emphasize protecting labor, human rights, 
and environmental practices for all sourced 
factories that produce NBCUniversal logo 
or branded products. Our goal is to work closely with factories to build up their 
capacity for sustainable growth. We work 
with factory management to improve their 
labor and environmental performance. 
ALSO IN THIS REPORT
44  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
SUPPORTING NONPROFIT 
ORGANIZATIONS
In 2014, Comcast NBCUniversal provided more than $478 million in cash and in-kind contributions to local, regional, and national 
organizations that share our commitment to improving communities and enriching lives. Learn more about our community giving 
programs at corporate.comcast.com/our-values/community-investment/philanthropy-partnerships.
THE COMCAST FOUNDATION
The Comcast Foundation is dedicated to 
investing in communities by expanding 
digital literacy, promoting community 
service, and developing the next 
generation of leaders. We awarded 
$17.4 million in grants to nonprofit 
organizations in 2014.
21ST CENTURY SOLUTIONS AND THE 
NBCUNIVERSAL FOUNDATION
21st Century Solutions, a program 
created by the NBCUniversal Foundation 
in partnership with our NBCUniversal 
Owned Television Stations division, 
awards grants to nonprofit organizations 
whose programs support innovative, 
high-impact initiatives in the following  
six categories: civic engagement, 
education, environment, jobs and 
economic empowerment, media arts,  
and technology.
The 2014 competition took place in 10 
major U.S. cities, with one winning 
organization and two runners-up in 
each market — for a total of $1.2 million 
shared among 30 organizations. View 
the list of grant recipients and amounts 
at nbcuniversal.com/article/third-
annual-21st-century-solutions-grant-
challenge-winners-announced.
2014 FOUNDATION GIVING
View the full list of organizations 
that have received funding from our 
foundations at corporate.comcast.com/
csr2015/foundation-giving-list.  $478 MILLION+
Total cash and in-kind contributions  
to local, regional, and national 
nonprofits in 2014
ALSO IN THIS REPORT
45  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
•	For the second consecutive year, 
Comcast NBCUniversal was 
recognized as one of America’s most 
community-minded companies by 
the Civic 50. Comcast NBCUniversal 
was also ranked first among our 
communications industry peers.
•	Comcast Corporation was ranked No. 4 
among LATINA Style Magazine’s 2014 
50 Best Companies for Latinas to Work 
for in the United States.
•	For the second consecutive year, 
Comcast NBCUniversal was recognized 
among DiversityInc’s Top 50 Companies 
for Diversity. 
•	Comcast NBCUniversal’s Diversity 
Councils were ranked sixth among 
the 2014 Top 25 Diversity Councils by 
the Association of ERGs & Councils 
(formerly the Association of Diversity 
Councils). This marks our sixth 
consecutive year on the list. 
•	Comcast received a score of 85 on 
the Hispanic Association of Corporate 
Responsibility’s (HACR) 2014 Corporate 
Inclusion Index (CII).
•	For the second year in a row, Comcast 
NBCUniversal earned a 100% score on 
the Human Rights Campaign’s (HRC’s) 
2014 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), 
and was recognized among HRC’s Best 
Places to Work.
•	Comcast Corporation was named 
among the 2014 Top Companies for 
Diversity by Black Enterprise. 
•	For the second consecutive year in 
2014, U.S. Veterans Magazine named 
Comcast NBCUniversal among its 
Best of the Best lists for Top Veteran-Friendly Companies and Top Supplier Diversity Programs. •	The Dave Thomas Foundation for 
Adoption recognized Comcast as one 
of the 2014 100 Best Adoption-Friendly 
Workplaces, and Comcast claimed the 
No. 2 spot in the Communications and 
Telecommunications industry. 
•	The readers of Diversity/Careers in 
Engineering & Information Technology 
recognized Comcast NBCUniversal as 
a 2014 Best Diversity Company. 
•	For the second year, Comcast NBCUniversal was named among 
Latino Magazine’s LATINO 100. 
•	For the second year in a row, Hispanic 
Network Magazine named Comcast 
NBCUniversal among its Best of the 
Best in the categories of Top Diversity 
Employers and Top Supplier Diversity Programs. 
•	For the second consecutive year, 
Professional Woman’s Magazine 
named Comcast NBCUniversal to its 
Best of the Best lists for Top Diversity Employers and Top Supplier Diversity Programs. •	Equal Opportunity magazine ranked 
Comcast No. 22 among its 2014 Top  
50 Employers. 
•	The National Veteran-Owned Business 
Association (NaVOBA) named Comcast 
NBCUniversal among the 2014 Best 
Corporations for Veteran-Owned 
Businesses. 
•	DiversityBusiness.com ranked Comcast NBCUniversal 27th among its Top 
50 Organizations for Multicultural 
Business. 
•	Comcast Corporation received a 2014 
Multicultural TV Front Runner Award 
for its commitment and efforts in 
support of the various multicultural 
communities it serves.
•	The National Hispanic Media Coalition 
(NHMC) honored Comcast for its 
Outstanding Diversity Practices during 
NHMC’s 17th Annual Impact Awards 
Gala. 
•	G.I. Jobs and Military Spouse 
magazines ranked Comcast 
NBCUniversal No. 76 among the  
Top 100 Military Friendly Employers.
For the second year in a row, Comcast NBCUniversal earned a 100% score on the Human Rights Campaign’s 
(HRC) 2014 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), and was named one of HRC’s Best Places to Work.
ALSO IN THIS REPORT
46  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
•	Comcast NBCUniversal was named to 
the United States Hispanic Chamber 
of Commerce’s (USHCC’s) Million 
Dollar Club ($100M-$250M category), 
which recognizes corporations 
and procurement executives who 
actively demonstrate an unwavering 
commitment to Hispanic business 
enterprises through their work with 
Hispanic suppliers.
•	The Legal Intelligencer named 
Comcast’s legal team among 
Pennsylvania’s Best In-House Legal Departments of the Year for 
its commitment to diversity and its 
critical victory in Comcast v. Behrend. 
•	Comcast received 16 Excellence 
in Multicultural Marketing Awards 
(EMMAs) from the National 
Association for Multi-ethnicity in 
Communications. The EMMAs 
recognize excellence in marketing 
designed for culturally diverse 
audiences and customers, including 
African American, Asian, Hispanic and 
other market segments. 
•	Two Comcast XFINITY campaigns 
earned Cablefax FAXIES Awards. 
Grupo Gallegos’ Hispanic acquisition 
“Los Gutierrez” campaign and Burrell 
Communications’ “Celebrate Black 
TV” campaign were selected as co-
first place winners in the Multicultural 
Marketing — Operator category.
•	Four Comcast NBCUniversal 
productions won GLAAD media 
awards, and 16 Comcast 
NBCUniversal productions received 
nominations. 
•	The National Academy of Television 
Arts and Sciences awarded 
Telemundo two Sports Emmy awards, 
the most of any Spanish-language 
broadcast network in 2014. The World 
Cup qualifying match between Mexico and Costa Rica on Rumbo al Mundial 
in October 2013 was recognized as 
Outstanding Live Sports Coverage in 
Spanish, and the network’s acclaimed 
sportscaster Andrés Cantor was 
honored as Outstanding On-Air Sports 
Personality in Spanish. 
•	The Radio Television Digital News 
Association (RTDNA) and UNITY: 
Journalists for Diversity announced 
Comcast’s His Dream, Our Stories 
among the winners of the 2014 
RTDNA/UNITY Awards.
•	The Congressional Black Caucus 
Foundation, Inc. (CBCF) recognized 
Comcast as a Distinguished Corporation for its tremendous work 
in promoting digital literacy.
•	Comcast’s Internet Essentials 
program received the T. Howard 
Innovative Program Award. AWARDS AND 
RECOGNITIONS
ALSO IN THIS REPORT
47  |  2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
