1  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   2  
Impact  
Report2021
3  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   4  
Digital Equity
07   Closing the Digit al Divide
13 
  Building Skills in 
Tech
19   Pr
oviding Emerging Talent with Opportunities
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
27   A dvancing Workforce Diversity & Inclusion
35 
  Exp
anding Diverse Storytelling and Increasing Awareness
43 
  S
trengthening Small Businesses Owned by People of Color
47   S
upporting the Next Generation of Social Impact Leaders
53   2
020 Diversity Data
Environment
61   Commit ting to Carbon Neutral by 2035
65 
  P
owering our Houston Region with 100% Green Energy
69 
  Prioritizing S
ustainability During Production
73   Aiming f
or Sky ZeroT able of Contents
Data in this report are for calendar year 2020 and are for Comcast NBCUniversal only, unless otherwise 
noted. Visit  https://corporate.comcast.com/impact for more data and additional information.A Message from Brian L. Roberts 
& Dalila Wilson-Scott
As we look back on — and begin to move forward from — a very 
challenging 2020, we want to first thank our employees. Their resilience, heart, and commitment got us through this past year and give us confidence for a better tomorrow. When it mattered most, they rose to the occasion, finding new ways to support one another and our communities and audiences. 
Building on a decade-long foundation, the team accelerated our efforts 
to close the digital equity gap at the onset of the pandemic, leveraging technology, training, and Internet connectivity to advance economic mobility. We opened Lift Zones in community centers across the country to provide students, seniors, veterans, and others with free Internet and a safe space to complete homework, grow their skills, and apply for jobs. To help ensure communities of color and low-income families have the tools and access necessary to succeed in an increasingly digital economy, we will invest $1 billion to reach an additional 50 million Americans over the next 10 years. 
Our company also came together to advocate for systemic change 
and to be a meaningful part of the solution in the fight against racism, injustice, and inequity. We launched new programs and initiatives that have helped to support small businesses owned by people of color, create new job opportunities and build careers, amplify diverse voices to inspire and inform, and provide resources to underserved communities.  
We continued to take steps to lessen our environmental footprint 
and help establish a sustainable planet today and for generations to come. Across our global operations, we are focused on reducing our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and recently set the ambitious goal of being carbon neutral by 2035. 
Ultimately in all that we do, our mission remains the same — to connect 
people to what matters most. We use our platforms and programs to help elevate potential and open opportunities for success. And, we do this with an exceptional team of employees and partners — because together, we can create a stronger future for all.
Brian L. Roberts
Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer  
Comcast Corporation
Dalila Wilson-Scott
Chief Diversity Officer, 
Comcast Corporation President, Comcast NBCUniversal Foundation 
JUNE 8, 2021DIGITAL 
EQUITY01
We have spent more than a decade working to 
address digital inequities. From connecting people to the Internet; to supporting young, diverse storytellers; to opening doors for the next generation of innovators, creators, and doers, we want everyone to have the skills, resources, and tools they need to succeed in an increasingly digital world. 7  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   8D
I
g
ITAL  E
qUITy
Thanks to the hard work and support of our dedicated 
employees and thousands of community partners, 
we recently reached an exciting new milestone in our 
efforts to bring the Internet to low-income Americans — 
connecting a cumulative total of more than 10 million 
people over the last 10 years.
We’re proud of our progress — and we couldn’t have 
done it without the support and contributions from 
tens of thousands of schools and nonprofit partners. 
But we know there is much more to do. The COVID-19 
pandemic has made advancing digital equity more 
important than ever. We have committed to investing 
$1 billion over the next 10 years to ensure that even 
more low-income individuals have the tools and 
resources they need to succeed.Closing the 
Digital Divide9  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSALD
I
g
ITAL  E
qUITy
1,000
WiFi-enabled Lift Zones to be  
launched by the end of 2021Our Commitment
Over the Next 10 yea rs
A Decade of Progress
Our work to address digital inequities began in 
earnest in 2011, when we launched lnternet Essentials , a groundbreaking program that 
provides low-cost, high-speed Internet at home for millions of low-income households. At the same time, we ramped up efforts to improve access to digital tools and resources, invested in organizations that help people build digital skills, and partnered with nonprofits to help bridge the digital divide. 
This solid foundation meant we were uniquely 
situated to respond to the increased need for connectivity at the onset of the pandemic in early 2020. We mobilized quickly, increasing download speeds for all new and existing Internet Essentials customers at no additional cost and creating innovative solutions to connect people to the Internet at scale. We also expanded the number of languages spoken by agents at our Internet Essentials call centers to more than 240, including American Sign Language. 
Building on the success of Internet Essentials, and 
based on feedback we received from listening to city leaders, educators, and our nonprofit partners, we launched two new programs in 2020: the Internet Essentials Partnership Program and Lift Zones.
$1B
to help close the digital divide
50M 
Americans to be impacted
100s 
of Internet Essentials Partnership  
Program collaboratorsBuilding Essential Partnerships
Access to the Internet has the power to transform 
lives — especially in a time of school closures and virtual learning. In 2020, we launched our Internet Essentials Partnership Program (IEPP) to meet the vital need for students to get online. The program is a collaboration with school districts, local governments, philanthropic partners, and our employee ambassadors to connect large numbers of students and families, at no cost to them, to the Internet at home. During the pandemic, the program helped tens of thousands of students get online.Sponsoring organizations cover the cost of Internet service for eligible, low-income households. Through IEPP, families have access to all the benefits Internet Essentials has to offer — a high-speed Internet connection at home, the option to purchase a low-cost computer, and access to free digital skills training. From San Francisco to Washington, D.C., partnership agreements are helping to ensure that vulnerable students and families don’t get left behind. Learn more.
IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   10
community-based organizations, and philanthropists to ensure four years of broadband connectivity, Chicago Connected will become one of the largest and longest-term efforts in the country to provide high-speed Internet to families at no cost to them.ON THE 
gR
OUND: IN CHICA gO
Li
ke many school districts around the country, 
Chicago’s public schools had to pivot in the early months of 2020. Chicago Connected helped to fill the void. Launched in June, the IEPP partnership connected more than 60,000 Chicago students and their families during the 2020-2021 school year to free, reliable high-speed Internet. 
“Chicago Connected has been successful in 
ensuring our students and their families have the resources they need to attend and engage in school during this unprecedented time,” says Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot. 
By bringing together government agencies, 
Chicago Public Schools, broadband providers, 
CLOSIN g THE  D I g ITAL  D IVIDE
By the NumbersDIgITAL  E qUITy
IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   12 11  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSALCreating Safe Spaces for Learning
Fast Internet access, a safe space, and the chance  
to learn how to use technology are essential to creating a more equitable world. That’s where Lift Zones  come in.
Today there are more than 750 of these WiFi-connected spaces in community centers around the country, with a plan to reach 1,000 by the end of 2021. Lift Zones feature free hotspot connectivity, a site coordinator, and access to hundreds of hours of educational and digital skills content to support remote schooling, homework, job searches, and more.
To develop the program, we worked with an 
extensive network of thousands of city leaders and nonprofit partners who were already embedded in our communities. We will continue to evolve it over time and are developing a program where our employees can harness their skills and talents as Lift Zone volunteers.
his new laptop to the center to get connected. “The Lift Zone makes my online experience much better,” he says.ON THE 
gR
OUND: IN MEMPHIS 
In Memphis, Lift Zones are helping thousands of young students get online. But they are not the only ones benefiting; veterans are also getting connected. At the Lift Zone at Alpha Omega Veterans Services (AOVS), veterans can access private telehealth consultations, counseling services, and education and job opportunities.
“The Lift Zones give our veteran heroes the 
capability to connect without interruption or charges to long-distance learning experiences. We are honored and blessed to have such services,” says Cordell Walker, Executive Director at AOVS.Robert Seawood, who served in the United States Army, is one of the dozens of veterans benefiting from the AOVS Lift Zone. He has been bringing 
Our military engagement is deeply rooted in our culture, going 
back decades to our founder, U.S. Navy veteran Ralph Roberts. We seek to connect military employees, customers, and communities in new ways.
“ W e’ve  bee n on a mission to address digital 
inequities in under-resourced communities 
through Internet Essentials for a decade — and there’s even a greater need now. Our commitment has never been stronger, 
 and w
e 
are dedicated to making a lasting impact for generations to come.” 
Dave Watson
President and Chief Executive Officer Comcast Cable
ON THE gR OUND: IN DENVER 
Across the Denver metropolitan area, 20 Lift 
Zones are giving kids a place to continue learning, despite the disruption to schools caused by the pandemic.
Students come to one of seven Boys & Girls Clubs 
of Metro Denver to log into their remote lessons. Some kids are there every day, while others are there only a few days a week. “Before we had the Lift Zone, we had problems with kids connecting, losing their calls, and being unable to use their own Chromebooks.
 
We had use of a hotspot,  
but it only worked about half the time,” says Lisa Cacciatore, Director at Shopneck Boys & Girls Club. “Once the Lift Zone was set up, we have  
not had issues.”
CLOSIN g THE  D I g ITAL  D IVIDE
13  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   14D
I
g
ITAL  E
qUITy
Women and people of color are chronically 
underrepresented in the technology sector workforce — 
especially women of color. Black, Latina, and Indigenous 
women make up just 4% of the technology workforce, 
according to Reboot Representation, one of our partners 
working to close the gender and opportunity gap. In 
addition, an estimated two-thirds of the U.S. Black and 
Latino population doesn’t have access to the education 
needed for the technology jobs of the future.
We are passionate about reaching a future where the 
technology workforce is representative of all communities. 
We are proud to champion organizations that build creative 
coalitions to diversify the industry and prepare more people 
for tech careers through skills development and education.
By taking collective action to level the tech sector playing 
field, we can combine resources, broaden the talent pool, 
and move faster to achieve the systemic changes, at scale, 
that are necessary to transform the industry. Building Skills 
i n  Te c h
15  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSALD
I
g
ITAL  E
qUITy
Reboot Representation is bringing companies together to collectively 
remedy the underrepresentation of women of color in the tech sector. The Reboot Representation Tech Coalition currently consists of 19 companies that have partnered to reach the goal of doubling the number of Black, Latina, and Indigenous women receiving computing degrees by 2025.
Reboot’s influential report on women in tech was a first-of-its-kind 
effort to collect data directly from tech companies to understand how they approach philanthropic and corporate social responsibility initiatives focused on closing the gender gap in tech. The research, which found that women are severely underrepresented in tech, suggested there is significant potential for more companies to drive progress — especially for women of color. 
In November 2020, we joined the Reboot Representation Tech 
Coalition as an executive member to help advance the organization’s work. The member companies have collectively pledged $21 million to create pathways that support women of color pursuing tech careers.MODEL FOR CHAN
gE
O
UR COMMITMENTORgAN
IZATIONAL IMPACTOur Partners Transforming T ech
We support several extraordinary organizations that are taking unique approaches to the shared goal of revolutionizing the tech industry by creating more opportunity, diversity, and inclusion for the benefit of all. We are proud to showcase just two of these partners here — Reboot Representation and Per Scholas.
IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   16B
UILDIN
g Sk
ILLS  IN T
ECH
“ Comcas t NBCUniversal is uniquely positioned to 
have a real impact in narrowing the opportunity 
gap in technology. Communities of color have been left out of tech careers for far too long.”
gw yneth ga ul 
Senior Director, Strategic Partnerships & Community Impact 
Comcast CorporationReboot Representation
17  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   18D
I
g
ITAL  E
qUITy B
UILDIN
g Sk
ILLS  IN T
ECH
SPOTLI gHT
A Per Scholas gr aduate Builds  
on a Solid Foundation 
Ampire Ndusha always dreamed of working in computer networking. 
When he arrived in the United States from Uganda in 2016, he discovered Per Scholas, an organization that offers tuition-free IT training and help getting tech jobs. “I thought, why not give it a chance?” he says. 
He’s glad he did. He graduated from the nonprofit’s three-month IT 
Support program with certificates in CompTIA A+ and Google IT Support. But the benefits went well beyond just technical certifications. He also learned “soft skills” such as how to write a resume, interview for a job, and adjust to a technology workplace. 
Inspired by Per Scholas, he continued his education, earning a 
master’s degree in IT, a CISCO certification, and other qualifications. “Per Scholas gave me a solid foundation, and then I worked my way up,” he says.
In 2019, he saw a job opening at Comcast in Cincinnati. He was hired 
as a network design engineer, and now he spends his days doing what he loves: installation, support, configuration, and design for his customers. In addition to meaningful work, he appreciates the opportunities he’s had. “I think it’s fitting that Per Scholas gave me tech training and guidance on how to get a job, and then I ended up working at Comcast, which is a big supporter of Per Scholas,” he says. “I feel like I came from zero to here.”Per Scholas is designing a nationwide program that offers tuition-free training, professional development, and networking to prepare underrepresented individuals for high-growth careers in the technology industry. With campuses in 14 cities, Per Scholas has trained more than 12,000 people in tech skills and partnered with leading employers to build more diverse talent pools by directly connecting graduates to career opportunities.
On average, approximately 85% of students accepted into Per Scholas 
will graduate from the program, 80% of graduates will secure employment at an average wage of at least $20 an hour, and 75% will retain employment beyond one year in the information technology field. Historically, alumni will make roughly three times more in their first job after graduation than their pre-training wages.
In 2021, we announced a $1 million commitment to help Per Scholas 
scale its remote operations and train 1,000 learners — 87% of whom are people of color, 30% women, and 60% with no degree beyond high school — for in-demand technology jobs. The partnership will enable Per Scholas to provide remote, tuition-free training to diverse talent in 10 U.S. markets, with programs in IT support, software engineering, cybersecurity, and cloud support. In addition, we’re also serving as the founding corporate partner in our hometown of Philadelphia.MODEL FOR CHAN
gE
O
UR COMMITMENTORgAN
IZATIONAL IMPACTPer Scholas
Ampire Ndusha  
Network Design Engineer  
Comcast Technology Solutions
19  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   20D
I
g
ITAL  E
qUITy
It’s an exciting time to help shape the future of the media 
and entertainment industry. We are making investments 
to diversify the TV, film, and news businesses by providing 
emerging talent with the career pathways to move into 
our industry and move up.
We have built strong programs within our own 
organization — including NBCU Academy and Sky’s 
The Edit — to elevate new voices. We also support a 
network of partners who are helping to foster creativity 
and empower the next generation of diverse storytellers 
through education, exposure, and skills training. Together, 
we can help ensure the news and entertainment we 
deliver and the programming we create is representative 
of all the audiences we serve.Providing Emerging 
T alent with 
Opportunities21  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   22D
I
g
ITAL  E
qUITy P
ROVIDIN
g E
MER g
IN
g TALENT  
WITH  
O
PPORTUNITIES
NBCU Academy
Sky: ge tting yo ung People Excited 
about the News Business
In England and Italy, Sky Academy Studios  has 
been getting young people excited about the news 
business for nearly a decade. The program offers students hands-on learning experiences to create their own television content while working with teams of experts. Since its launch in 2012, the program has hosted more than 166,000 teens and tweens, opening young minds and encouraging creativity, collaboration, and communication.ready for the newsroom,” says Yvette Miley, Senior Vice President of Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion for NBCUniversal News Group. “We can help solve that.”
We’re also solving for what Miley calls a “pipeline 
to nowhere,” which is when students are offered internships and entry-level jobs but not enough opportunities to advance further. By starting relationships with students when they are in college, NBCUniversal can cultivate diverse, young talent for long-term careers in the industry, whether at our news network or at one of our competitors. Learn more about how we’re aiming to diversify our  News Group workforce to be 50% women and 50% people of color. 
Another Sky program, kicked off in 2020, is The Edit , which is aimed at improving the media and 
digital literacy of 30,000 young people across the UK and Ireland, with a focus on low-income communities. Launched in partnership with Adobe, The Edit provides primary and secondary schools with a platform and the training to produce broadcast news reports from script to screen. The program aims to inspire the next generation of media talent by breaking down the industry’s barriers to entry, bridging the digital skills gap,  and offering insights into media careers.“ W e want to help the next generation reach their 
potential. Through Sky Academy Studios we have 
been able to work with schoolchildren to raise their aspirations, develop new skills, and broaden their horizons of what they can achieve in life. ”
Nishy Lall
Head of Young People SkyA cornerstone of our efforts to diversify the industry 
is NBCU Academy , our new student training program 
for aspiring young, diverse journalists. Launched in early 2021, the Academy is partnering with 17 academic institutions, including Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-Serving Institutions, and colleges with significant Latino, Asian American, Pacific Islander, Black, Indigenous, and tribal populations to help students reach their dreams of becoming journalists.
We are investing $6.5 million in the initiative 
to offer training on college campuses, online programming, and a curated curriculum for hands-on learning experiences with top NBCUniversal News Group journalists. As part of this overall investment, $3.5 million will go to scholarships over the next two years, designed to help support promising young journalists with college-related costs so they can stay in school. 
By providing robust training for its 
participants, the Academy will help students become more prepared — and more confident — for the jobs that journalists might land after college. “We were seeing a skills gap where students weren’t quite 
“ W e’re thinking differently about how 
we recruit and retain top talent while 
embracing diversity in all forms. The bottom line is that we need to reflect the audiences we serve 
 — 
 in fr
ont of 
and behind the camera, 
 as w
ell as in  
the content on our platforms.”
Jeff Shell
Chief Executive Officer NBCUniversal23  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   24D
I
g
ITAL  E
qUITy P
ROVIDIN
g E
MER g
IN
g TALENT  
WITH  
O
PPORTUNITIES
Supporting Strong Partners  
That Foster Creativity
We recently announced partnerships with 
organizations focused on increasing representation of people of color in the arts and media. And many of them focus on youth.
New York-based Urban Arts Partnership (UAP) , for 
example, provides young people from low-income 
communities with an education that is rooted in the arts and technology. Our support of Inner-City Arts , meanwhile, will enable the Los Angeles-based 
nonprofit to expand its media arts program in New York City, with a focus on low-income teens of color.
Another partner, Youth Design Center (YDC) , is on a 
mission to reduce the number of disconnected youth 
in the Brownsville neighborhood of Brooklyn by lowering their barriers to entry in tech and design professions and increasing their relevant experience in the innovation economy. 
“There are critically important voices in 
marginalized communities that need to be heard,” says Quardean Lewis-Allen, a Brownsville native and architect who founded YDC nine years ago. “Young people have a genius and connection to the many challenges that their communities are facing. Putting these young people at the forefront of conversations, leveraging their expertise to solve problems, and giving them the power to do so is the most responsible thing we can be doing as stewards of an equitable future.”
“ W e’re working to help underrepresented 
groups develop the skills they need to break 
into the entertainment industry and have greater opportunities for success. W e’re excited to partner with nonprofits that share our commitment to promoting equity in the arts and media, as well as our goal to effect real, sustainable change.”
Hilary Smith
Executive Vice President NBCUniversal Corporate Communications and Social Impact
STOR y P IRATES
Story Pirates  is an educational nonprofit and 
NBCUniversal partner that finds inventive ways to 
celebrate the vivid imaginations of kids. Through one of their programs, burgeoning young authors write short stories, which are then illustrated by artist volunteers. Pictured here is the visual interpretation of a short story written by Madeline, a 7-year-old from Canada who wrote about an adventurous unicorn, and illustrated by Carla Lutz, an Animation Supervisor for DreamWorks Animation.
YDC’s Creative Apprenticeship Program trains Black and Latino  
youth in digital media skills such as photography and video production.We know that a diverse, equitable, and inclusive 
company is a more innovative and successful one. Across our workforce, products, and content, we embrace diversity of background, perspective, culture, and experience, and together with our partners, we have been working to fight injustice and inequity for decades. From bringing broadband and digital skills training to underserved families; to creating opportunities for underrepresented entrepreneurs; to amplifying diverse voices; we’re committed to leveraging our unique platforms to help create positive change.02
DIVERSITY,  
EQUITY &  
INCLUSION27  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   28D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION
Our commitment to diversity and our mission to 
champion equity starts at home. Across all levels of the 
company, we are continuously exploring ways to bring 
this commitment to life and create a more inclusive 
workplace. We’re accelerating our hiring, development, 
and advancement strategies to ensure equitable 
practices, and we are continuing to foster a work 
environment that reflects and supports our greatest 
strength — our talented employees.
We have also bolstered education and training programs 
to engage people across our company to further our 
understanding of race-related issues and to promote 
more inclusive behaviors. In addition, we have elevated 
existing leaders and created new positions to drive our 
DE&I efforts across the business.
 
We believe a deep focus on diversity, equity, and inclusion 
is crucial to reach our greatest potential as a company. 
This is a long-term effort, and our work is ongoing.Advancing 
Workforce Diversity 
& Inclusion29  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   30D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION A
DVANCIN
g W OR
k
FORCE  
D
IVERSIT y
 & I
NCLUSION
A Q&A with Cesar Conde
Cesar Conde, Chairman of the NBCUniversal News Group, is the first-ever 
and highest-ranking Latino to run a major English-language network TV news division in the U.S. We talked to him about his new role and why it’s so crucial to have diverse voices in front of and behind the camera, now more than ever.
What prompted you to make diversity a priority for your 
news operations?
Representation and inclusivity have always been important to me. I am a son of 
immigrant parents — my mom from Cuba and my dad from Peru — and I grew up in Miami and across the East Coast. After working in the media industry for nearly two decades, both from an editorial and business perspective, I also saw the positive impact journalism has in society if practiced responsibly. 
Our most sacred responsibility at NBCU News Group is to inform our audiences 
and create great journalism that reflects and represents all of the communities we serve, across all of our platforms. The 50% Challenge, which aspires for our News Group to be 50% women and 50% people of color, is at the core of that mission. Creating an inclusive environment for our employees, as well as our consumers, is essential. What are some of the major milestones that you’ve  
been most proud of since joining the News 
gr
oup in 2020?
I’m so proud of our historic accomplishments this past year. Among them, Joy Reid became the first Black woman to anchor an evening cable news show when we launched The ReidOut. We also presented the first-ever bilingual collaboration between NBC News and Noticias Telemundo, airing stories about the Latino community in both Spanish and English.
Just a few months ago, Rashida Jones was named President of MSNBC, 
becoming the first Black executive to lead a major TV news network. She is an excellent leader and an important part of the culture at the News Group, and I couldn’t be more thrilled to see where she takes the network. She is off to a great start. In fact, her first month as president was historic — MSNBC was #1 across all of cable television for the month of February.
Tell us about how your employees were key to driving  
some of your diversity initiatives and how you plan  
to measure success. 
I’m so proud of how the 50% Challenge initiative came about. It was the result of many honest and tough conversations last summer aimed at fostering an inclusive workplace environment where everyone feels welcome and recognized.
We’re now laser-focused on delivering results, and one way we are showing 
progress across our DE&I initiatives is through a detailed action plan composed of five pillars: investment and recruitment, content, education and development, partnership, and measurement.
What are the biggest challenges to reach this goal?
Change doesn’t happen overnight. It will be a long journey, and we’ve built a roadmap with our five-pillar plan to help us get there. It’s an incredible privilege and a competitive advantage that we work at NBCUniversal, which has exceptional journalism, powerful brands, and remarkable talent on and off air, all under one umbrella.
31  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   32D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION A
DVANCIN
g W OR
k
FORCE  
D
IVERSIT y
 & I
NCLUSION
“ W e’re creating a workplace where everyone can 
bring their whole self to work and have a chance 
to succeed. W e don’t always get it right. But we believe that progress, not perfection, will lead not only to a more inclusive company, 
 but also t
o a 
more equitable and just society.” 
Craig Robinson
Executive Vice President, Chief Diversity OfficerNBCUniversalFostering a Culture  
of Inclusion
This past year pushed us to think even more deeply 
about what an inclusive company culture looks like in a changing society. Throughout the organization, we’re finding more ways to make every employee feel seen, heard, and respected. 
In 2020, we conducted over 1,000 listening sessions 
on the topics of diversity and inclusion. In addition, more than 45,000 employees participated in our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) Speaker Series  to hear directly from bestselling 
authors such as Ibram X. Kendi, Ijeoma Oluo, and Karen Catlin, amongst others, on topics that included antiracism, intersectionality, and what it means to be an ally.
Also in 2020, approximately 71,000 employees 
participated in our first-ever cross-company DE&I Day.  This inaugural event provided the 
opportunity to build understanding within our teams and company about unconscious bias and  
the actionswe can take — both big and small —  
to make a positive impact.
In 2020, we changed our company’s Pride flag by adding black and 
brown stripes to symbolize the inclusion of communities of color.33  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   34D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION A
DVANCIN
g W OR
k
FORCE  
D
IVERSIT y
 & I
NCLUSION
ERgs i n Action
Our company’s eight Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs) empower our employees to support the causes they care about and make a difference in their own communities. Even during a challenging time when they couldn’t meet in person, many of our thousands of ERG members, across 225 chapters, found ways to contribute.
“We don’t typically say ‘we can’t do that,’” says 
Director of Technical Operations Juan Perez, an ERG lead for Comcast Unidos, which unites and empowers Latino professionals. “So my job is to organize, motivate, pivot, and think outside the box.”
That’s exactly what he did. Perez and Unidos 
stepped up to virtually engage youth in the community, help peers with professional development, and promote COVID-19 vaccination education. And in a year of racial reckoning, the group also sprang into action to support others, partnering with the Black Employee Network for listening and education sessions after the murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis. “We can achieve more when we work together,” says Perez. “When we build those bridges, we can be more successful.”By the Numbers
8
ERgs
$184M
Total cash and in-kind contributions since 2011$12.5M
Public service announcement (PSA) 
allocation to national military community support organizations225
chapters
50+
Military community organizations supported,  
including total cash and in-kind giving#1
Veteran Employer ranking by the Military Times’  “Best for Vets: Employers 2020” list35K+
membersSupporting Our Military Employees
We work to create an inclusive workplace where 
military veterans can thrive. When COVID-19 struck, we were proud to support our many employees who were called to duty in the National Guard and Reserve.
Florida National Guard Master Sgt. Rachel 
Cabanting, who has served in the Army National Guard for 19 years, was one of them. A safety manager for training and compliance at our company’s Universal Orlando Resort in Florida, Cabanting was deployed to the Orange County Convention Center Community-Based Testing Site, which was the first regional COVID-19 testing site  
in Florida.
“It was wonderful partnering with teams across the 
state to exchange ideas and find solutions that were not only helpful for our Florida Guardsmen but for safety programs in our community,” says Cabanting, who assisted her commander in recommending changes to keep soldiers safe and ensure that procedures would be followed correctly. 
2020 MILITAR
y
 SUPPORT
We have a longstanding commitment to supporting and empowering military employees and communities.35  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   36D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION
As a global media and tech company with millions of 
viewers, we have a unique ability to share different voices 
and perspectives while shining a light on important 
topics. When audiences are exposed to diverse content, 
they have the chance to explore new ways of thinking and 
being — or to see themselves reflected on the screen.
Our company has a long history of leaning in to spotlight 
diversity through our programming, and we continued 
to do so in 2020 and early 2021 as events including the 
murder of George Floyd and the disturbing rise in violence 
against Asian Americans galvanized the nation — and the 
world — to take action against systemic racism.
From empowering content creators to using our 
storytelling platforms to deliver programming 
representative of the audiences we serve, we put the 
full weight of our media resources behind amplifying 
underrepresented voices, sharing culturally representative 
stories, and educating our viewers on diverse and  
inclusive cultures, perspectives, and experiences. Expanding Diverse 
Storytelling and 
Increasing Awareness
37  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   38D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION E
x
PANDIN
g D
IVERSE  ST
ORyTELLIN
g 
AND  
I
NCREASIN
g AW
ARENESS
The More You Know DE&I Campaign
For more than 30 years, The More You Know public 
service announcements have kept our audiences informed and educated on issues ranging from the importance of voting, to anti-bullying, to women’s empowerment. This past year, we launched a new campaign that speaks out against systemic racism and speaks up for social justice, equality, and equity. The series includes 12 spots that focus on how everyone can be an agent for change.Amplifying Diverse V oices
One example of our work to amplify diverse voices and cultures is Black Voices. Black Stories . This 
program launched last year as a special permanent content collection focused on the broad diversity of experience within the Black community, with movies and specials highlighting the long history of racism and police brutality. We later released Black Experience  on Xfinity, a new channel for Black 
entertainment, movies, TV shows, news, and more. Curated and endorsed by the African American Film Critics Association, Black Experience features high-quality content from Xfinity’s existing content partners — at no additional cost to viewers.
“The launch of Black Experience on Xfinity is a 
major investment in the Black creative community, and one of the many ways we are leveraging the scale and reach of our platforms to amplify voices that need to be heard,” says Keesha Boyd, Executive Director, Multicultural Video & Entertainment, Xfinity Consumer Services. “The point of the Black Experience is to create a space that celebrates the voices of an underrepresented community while demonstrating diversity in a community that is far from monolithic.”
Celebrating Cultural 
Heritage 
We celebrate the rich history and culture of many 
different communities by highlighting diverse content across our platforms. For example, to mark Asian American & Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month, in May 2021, we launched the “We Belong” campaign to spotlight the extensive and often unrecognized contributions that the AAPI community has made to American history, culture, and everyday life. This is just one example. From celebrating Diwali to curating LGBTQ media, our company recognizes the diverse culture and traditions represented in our workforce and our communities all year round. 
MAkI N g T ELEVISION MOMENTS  
MORE ACCESSIBLE
We constantly strive to make our platforms, products, and services more accessible to even more audiences.
In an effort to create a more inclusive 
experience for blind and visually impaired viewers, we provided live audio descriptions for several televised events over the past year. These included the inauguration of President Joseph R. Biden, the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade, and the Global Citizen One World: Together at Home virtual concert experience.
“Inclusion is at the heart of what we do,” 
says Tom Wlodkowski, Comcast Cable’s Vice President of Accessibility. “Thanks to live audio description, these televised moments were accessible to audiences unlike ever before.”
39  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   40D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION E
x
PANDIN
g D
IVERSE  ST
ORyTELLIN
g 
AND  
I
NCREASIN
g AW
ARENESS
Ilene Chaiken
WRITER AND PRODUCER  
Universal Television recently signed a deal with Ilene Chaiken to 
develop and produce script content for NBC’s Law & Order SVU  
spinoff series, Law & Order: Organized Crime.  Chaiken is best known 
for creating The L Word — the first TV show to feature an ensemble of lesbian characters — and for her work as showrunner of the Empire  
drama series.
Michael gr eyeyes  
ACTOR  
Michael Greyeyes will play the character of Rainbird in a new 
adaptation of Stephen King’s novel Firestarter . The role was first 
performed by George C. Scott in the original 1984 film, which is being remade by Universal-Blumhouse-Weed Road Pictures. Greyeyes also stars opposite Ed Helms in Rutherford Falls,  a new comedy on Peacock. Carla Banks-Waddles  
WRITER AND PRODUCER  
Carla Banks-Waddles, an executive producer and writer for NBC’s Good Girls,  has expanded her relationship with Universal Television. 
Banks-Waddles also wrote the pilot for At That Age , an NBCUniversal 
Television drama about a wealthy Black family from Harlem who built a real estate empire. “I’m thrilled that I get to continue working with a great team of people who are all committed to telling authentic, inclusive stories,” Banks-Waddles says. 
Tanya Saracho
WRITER AND PRODUCER  
The critically acclaimed television drama Vida  broke barriers for 
its depiction of a Mexican-American family. Now its creator, Tanya Saracho, is developing and creating original content and podcasts as part of a deal with Universal Content Productions (UCP), a division of Universal Studio Group. Saracho has also established Ojalá Ignition Lab, an incubator program aimed at amplifying Latino voices. Justin Lin
DIRECTOR  
Justin Lin, director of five Fast & Furious movies, has signed multi-
year production deals with Universal Pictures and Universal Studio Group for film and television. “Universal gave me my shot when they offered me the Fast  franchise a decade and a half ago,” Lin says. “Over 
the course of these years together, we’ve become a family, and I’m thrilled to be coming home. While our relationship started with Fast,  we have a 
lot more stories we want to share with audiences around the world.”
Creating Avenues and  
Opportunities for Content Creators
More than two decades ago, we launched a number of initiatives and pipeline programs 
to identify and cultivate diverse talent to join our entertainment production teams — efforts that we have continued to expand over the years. Here are just some of the talented storytellers we are excited to feature.“ W e recognize the powerful impact of authentic 
storytelling and cultural representation and remain 
committed to partnering with talented artists to create programming that is reflective of the global audiences we serve. W e’ve worked hard to cultivate a slate of shows across multiple platforms that center around inclusive, diverse voices and universal stories. Universal Studio Group is focused on creating content for everyone.” 
 
Pearlena IgbokweChairmanUniversal Studio Group41  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   42D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION E
x
PANDIN
g D
IVERSE  ST
ORyTELLIN
g 
AND  
I
NCREASIN
g AW
ARENESS
Providing Resources  
for Underrepresented  
Communities
We reach millions of people every day through 
our programs and productions. As such, we have a responsibility to use this vast network not only to entertain, but also to share important messages that can raise awareness and inspire action — especially in underrepresented communities. 
Our Plan Your Vote  campaign, for example, was 
created to help populations facing challenges with 
voting. As the 2020 presidential election intersected with a deadly pandemic, deciding how, when, and where to vote became as important as selecting candidates to support. Many states adjusted their rules around mail-in and early voting while others eliminated or consolidated polling places, prompting voter uncertainty and requiring people to plan ahead. 
The Plan Your Vote  interactive state-by-state guide 
— which was also translated into Spanish and 
amplified by our Telemundo network — offered the nation’s most comprehensive resource for voter planning. The site provided up-to-date, real-time information on mail-in ballot rules, registration deadlines, voting laws, and court decisions.
“In our democracy, civic participation is vital to 
ensuring that the interests of diverse communities are well represented — and to creating a just society for all of our people,” says Frankie Miranda, President and Chief Executive Officer, Hispanic Federation. “The fact that Comcast NBCUniversal joined forces with organizations like Hispanic Federation and dedicated significant amounts of airtime to encouraging Latinos to vote is testament to the company’s strong commitment to informing and engaging diverse communities and helping these communities better participate in civic opportunities.”
Building off the successes of Plan Your Vote , in early 
2021 we launched Plan Your Vaccine , a nationwide 
awareness campaign, website, and interactive tool to 
provide the latest news and information about when and where people can receive the COVID-19 vaccine. Available in English, Spanish, and Mandarin, the resource helps users navigate the vaccine rollout process by state, allowing them to check eligibility status, track distribution timelines, and find the closest vaccination sites. Users can also sign up for notifications to receive alerts as changes are made to vaccination rules in their states.
To amplify the message, we partnered with 
TODAY  to have show anchors vaccinated live 
on television. We have also been focused on ensuring the messages around vaccinations reach diverse audiences. Telemundo was a key partner, regularly incorporating “Planifica Tu Vacuna” messages throughout their news and entertainment programming and running promotions with Telemundo talent. 
By the Numbers 
1.6M+
unique visitors to 
Plan Your Vote*
7. 2M+
page views for Plan  
Your Vaccine *
* As of May 31, 2021“ The CO VID-19 vaccine rollout is an incredibly 
complicated challenge, but it’s an important step 
to getting our country back to normal. W e have the ability to leverage our considerable platforms and resources across Comcast NBCUniversal to raise awareness and help Americans navigate the ever-changing array of information on this issue.” 
Adam Miller
Chief Administration Officer, Comcast Corporation 
Executive Vice President, NBCUniversal
Weatherman and TODAY  Co-Host Al Roker received a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 
vaccine live on the morning show.43  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   44D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION
The restaurants, bookstores, childcare centers, 
boutiques, and barbershops that line neighborhood 
blocks are the backbone of strong communities and a 
healthy economy. While all small businesses were hit 
hard by the pandemic, those owned by people of color 
were disproportionately impacted. The National Bureau 
of Economic Research reported that between just 
February and April 2020, the number of Black-owned 
businesses declined by 41%, Latino-owned businesses 
declined by 32%, and Asian-owned businesses dropped 
by 25%, versus only 21% for all small businesses.
As a company committed to tackling racial inequity, 
we responded to these sobering statistics with 
Comcast RISE  — which stands for Representation, 
Investment, Strength, and Empowerment — our 
groundbreaking, multi-year initiative intended to break 
down the barriers to success for thousands of small 
businesses owned by people of color. Strengthening Small 
Businesses Owned 
by People of Color45  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   46D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION STREN
gTHENIN
g S
MALL  B
USINESSES  OWNED  
By
 P
EOPLE  
OF COL
OR
Supporting Diverse 
Entrepreneurs 
Through the Comcast RISE program, we drew 
upon our business brands to support more than 2,500 small businesses owned by people of color through early 2021 with media campaigns; creative production or consulting services from Effectv, the advertising sales division of Comcast Cable; as well as technology makeovers, including computer 
Businesses on the RISE
Le’Day Grant opened her Denver-based MyKings Ice Cream shop on March 1, 2020, about two weeks before the pandemic shut everything down. “I just wanted the shop to fully function,” says Grant. “In order to do that, we needed help with our website, payroll system, and other tools to help make the business succeed. I know ice cream, not technology.”A few years ago, artists Johanne and Terrance Wilson started COOL Creative, an online clothing brand that reflects their passion for social justice. COOL stands for Create Out of Love, and that’s what they do: design apparel and accessories with Black icons displayed on them. They call their line a “love letter to our culture.” In 2020, as they were getting ready to open a brick-and-mortar store in Miami, the pandemic hit, putting their plans on hold.
“ W e created Comcast RISE to partner with small 
businesses and give them access to tools to help 
them survive the pandemic and thrive. As we’ve gone through the selection process, it’s been so powerful to hear business owners’ stories and see the tangible ways that we can help grow their businesses and impact their communities.”
Teresa Ward-Maupin
Senior Vice President for Digital and Customer ExperienceComcast Business
Yet they were determined to bring to life their 
dream of representing people of color through art and fashion. The couple applied for the Comcast RISE program and were awarded with an ad campaign for their brand. “Our goal is to drive people to the website and to the store, in order to make up for all the sales that we lost over these past months,” says Johanne.What Comcast RISE provided: 
A 90-day TV ad campaign 
provided by Effectv, the advertising sales division  of Comcast Cable.What Comcast RISE provided:
A top-to-bottom technology 
makeover from Comcast  Business to help with payroll  and marketing.
She applied for the Comcast RISE program — and 
to her relief — was chosen to receive a technology makeover. Grant now serves her community 12 rotating ice cream flavors, floats, snow cones, and a neighborhood favorite — shakes that include fun additions such as cereal, candy, or peanut brittle. equipment, Internet, and voice and cybersecurity services from Comcast Business. In addition, the Comcast RISE Investment Fund, announced in March 2021, provided $5 million in grants to a total of 500 small businesses led by people of color in five of the cities hardest hit by the pandemic: Atlanta, Chicago, Detroit, Houston, and Philadelphia. By 2022, we plan to award monetary grants, technology makeovers, and marketing services from Comcast RISE to 13,000 small businesses owned by entrepreneurs of color.
COOL Creative 
MIAMI, FLORIDAMykin gs Ice Cream
DENVER, COLORADO47  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   48D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION
Around the country, forward-thinking organizations are 
working with speed and intention to elevate the next 
generation of leaders who will bring innovative ideas to 
life in order to create a more equitable society. 
A core part of our DE&I strategy is investing in these 
organizations, led by people of color, that share our 
company’s goals of disrupting systemic racism and 
creating long-term, sustainable change.Supporting the Next 
Generation of Social 
Impact Leaders 49  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   50D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION SUP
PORTIN
g THE  N
Ex
T 
gENERATION  
OF 
SO
CIAL  I
MPACT  L
EADERS  
T oday’s Leaders 
Transforming the Future 
Leaders of color are vitally needed to accelerate the 
urgent work necessary to advance racial equity. Yet a vast racial gap exists when it comes to leadership roles in the nonprofit sector. Only 10% of all philanthropic dollars go to organizations run by leaders of color. The percentage of people of color in the executive director/CEO role is under 20%. And the gap is even more profound for women of color: They are less likely than white women, white men, and men of color to rise to leadership positions at nonprofits.
It’s time for these voices to be heard, and more 
importantly, to be in positions to drive change. 
Echoing Green , led by visionary leader Cheryl 
Dorsey, is an early-stage funder of emerging social 
entrepreneurs that has been a trailblazer in this space for 30 years. In 2021, we announced a $2.5 million commitment to support Echoing Green’s new Racial Equity Philanthropic Fund, making Comcast its largest corporate backer. The Fund is investing in 500 emerging and established social innovators of color whose work advances racial equity. The goal of the program is to create a ripple effect: As these leaders develop new frameworks and programming, they build an on-ramp for a community of other entrepreneurs and activists to further elevate racial justice in their own work. The program invests seed funding in the emerging social enterprises of promising leaders and connects them to a broader ecosystem. One past fellow is Felecia Hatcher, co-founder of the Center for Black Innovation, a Comcast NBCUniversal partner and think tank aimed at cultivating Black leaders, entrepreneurs, and networks.
With the new fund, Echoing Green is focused 
on lifting up leaders who will find bold ways to disrupt systemic oppression. “We’re looking for leaders who are transformational,” says Dorsey. “They need to see tomorrow before the rest of us. We want to empower them to contribute to the many great social movements that are trying to bend the arc of history toward justice.”
Cheryl L. Dorsey, President of Echoing Green
Echoing Green invests seed funding in the emerging social enterprises of promising leaders, like Rashiid 
Coleman (left), co-founder of Summer House Institute. Echoing Green’s respected fellowships are considered one of the most competitive social entrepreneur programs in the country.51  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   52D
IVERSIT y
, Eq UITy
 & I
NCLUSION SUP
PORTIN
g THE  N
Ex
T 
gENERATION  
OF 
SO
CIAL  I
MPACT  L
EADERS  
Janeen Comenote  
ExECUTIVE DIRECTOR
National Urban Indian Family Coalition
“Despite being the original inhabitants of our 
country, American Indians and Alaska Natives are unfortunately a largely invisible population relegated to being viewed solely through the lens of misguided stereotypes and history. We see our work being multifaceted with a goal of providing more visibility to our urban Native communities and engaging them in a process of power-building through civic participation. We believe that exercising our collective right to determine our policymakers is one of many paths toward transformation — and one of the most effective. We also believe that power-building should not happen in a vacuum. When all people of color and vulnerable communities come together, strategize together, and work toward a common goal, our society will be healthier and more just for all of us.”
Founded in 2003, the mission of the National 
Urban Indian Family Coalition is to elevate a national voice and sustain Indigenous values  and culture through a strong network of urban Indian organizations.Carmita Semaan
FOUNDER, PRESIDENT
Surge Institute
“Leaders of color need the same thing anyone 
needs to be successful — the space to operate as our full, authentic selves and genuine recognition of our strengths. Many of the challenges that create an inequitable environment are tied to dominant cultural views on what strength, brilliance, and leadership as a whole look like. This inherently leads to the unintentional, or intentional, development of a space that says if you don’t fit in the box defined by a narrow group of people, you are not fit to lead. It’s harmful and hurts both the individual and the organization that could stand to learn and grow from experiencing that individual’s brilliance. We don’t need to be boosted up. We don’t need a hand. We just need a space that recognizes and appreciates all we bring to the table. Believe in  
us enough to get out of our way.”
Surge Institute educates, empowers, and  
elevates leaders of color in education through  its prestigious fellowship program.John ya ng
PRESIDENT, E x ECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Asian Americans Advancing Justice
“Leaders of color need to be bold and 
courageous, especially in the Asian American community, where there has been a tendency to ‘wait for our turn.’ Often, because of overt discrimination or implicit bias, Asian Americans and other marginalized communities are spoken over, not called on, or forgotten in conversations even when they are the experts. We need to use our voice, although that may make the existing power structure uncomfortable. Leaders of color also need to act and not let perfection stand in our way. Too often, we recognize that we are under increased scrutiny and feel the need to be better qualified or better prepared before we are willing to act. Especially in this moment, we need to act now — even if that means making some mistakes along the way.”
Asian Americans Advancing Justice advocates for 
the civil and human rights of Asian Americans through education, litigation, and public policy.
Sylvester Mobley 
FOUNDER, CHIEF E xE CUTIVE OFFICER
Coded by Kids
“The most important thing a leader can do to 
advance equity is committing to doing difficult work. Equity isn’t a project that you can launch, an event you can participate in, or a problem you can solve in a few weeks or months. Achieving equity requires a long-term commitment with an unwavering focus and the discipline to stay on course — even when it gets difficult. There’s nothing glamorous about it. There are challenging conversations to be had and many roadblocks along the way, and it requires an ongoing effort to sustain. In the last year, there’s been a lot of rhetoric about change, so now it’s time to act. Because it’s only through actions and meaningful investment that real, transformational change can be realized.”
Coded by Kids increases equity and 
representation in tech through robust educational programs in coding, web development, and entrepreneurship.Asian American
BlackIndigenousLatino2+ races7.2%18.8%0.4%14.7%3.2%6.3%19.9%0.4%14.5%3.1%6.7%19.2%0.4%14.7%3.2%2020 2018
Women People of Color % of total 2019
2018 44.1%  
2019 44.1%  
2020 44.3%2018 35.3%  
2019 35.4%  
2020 35.7%Total Workforce
Asian AmericanBlackIndigenousLatino2+ races8.9%25.8%0.4%15.6%5.9%2020 56.5% 2020 46.4%OVERALL WOR kFORCE yE 2020LE
ADERSHIP 
y
E 2020New Hires
53  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL*  All diversity data in this report are for Comcast NBCUniversal only. 
     
 
   Workforce metrics are reflective of our U.S. full time employees.  **  Ethnic div
ersity numbers may not sum to total due to rounding. * 
  Our Ex
ecutive Leadership Team includes Comcast’s Senior Vice Presidents and above, 
as well as NBCUniversal’s Executive and Management Committees.
IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   54DIVERSIT y,
 EqUITy 
& INCLUSION 2020 DIVERSIT y D
ATA
Asian American
BlackIndigenousLatino2+ races5.5%5.9%0.5%4.1%1.1%4.9%6.1%0.5%4.4%0.7%5.5%6.0%0.5%4.4%0.9%2020 2018
Women People of Color % of total 2019
2018 16.5%  
2019 17.3%  
2020 17.0%2018 31.6%  
2019 32.3%  
2020 33.6%Executive 
Leadership Team*
Asian AmericanBlackIndigenousLatino2+ races10.4%9.3%0.3%12.9%2.7%9.6%8.7%0.3%12.3%2.3%9.5%8.9%0.3%12.5%2.5%2018 33.2%  
2019 33.7%  
2020 35.5%2018 41.7%  
2019 42.3%  
2020 42.8%ManagersAsian AmericanBlackIndigenousLatino2+ races11.5%6.3%0.3%7.5%2.1%11.1%6.0%0.3%7.5%1.7%11.2%6.1%0.3%7.4%2.0%2018 26.5%  
2019 26.9%  
2020 27.6%2018 41.0%  
2019 41.4%  
2020 41.8%DirectorsAsian AmericanBlackIndigenousLatino2+ races8.0%5.1%0.2%7.4%1.6%7.1%5.1%0.3%7.6%1.3%7.4%5.0%0.2%7.6%1.6%2018 21.4%  
2019 21.8%  
2020 22.2%2018 39.4%  
2019 39.9%  
2020 40.5%Vice Presidents  
and AboveWomen
People of Color**key Diversity, equity, and inclusion are essential to our  b usiness. 
Our aspirational goal is to have 50% women 
 a
nd 33% people 
of color at every level of our workforce.Workforce  
Diversity*2018 20.0%  
2019 20.0%  
2020 30.0%WomenOur commitment to diversity starts at the top, with a Board 
of Directors that is 30% women and 30% people of color.Comcast NBCUniversal’s supplier diversity program is designed to promote, increase, and improve the participation of diverse businesses within our corporate supply chain — including companies owned by women, people of color, veterans, people with disabilities, and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer individuals. We track our spending with both Tier 1 vendors (direct purchases from approximately 2,500 diverse suppliers) and Tier 2 subcontractors. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROCUREMENT
55  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL*  Total Diversity refers to people of color and women,  
    without double-counting women of color.**  Ethnic diversity numbers may not sum to total due to rounding. 
IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   56DIVERSIT y,
 EqUITy 
& INCLUSION 2020 DIVERSIT y D
ATA
Governance Supplier Diversity
20202020
2020
20182018
$4.0B
$588M $449M $320M$3.9B
2018Tier 1 Diverse Spend
Tier 2 Diverse Spend
% of total 20192019
2019
2018 40.0%  
2019 40.0%  
2020 50.0%Total Diversity*
Asian American
BlackIndigenousLatino2+ races10%10%0%10%0%10%10%0%10%0%10%10%0%10%0%2018 30.0%  
2019 30.0%  
2020 30.0%People of Color**$3.7BWomen
People of Color**keyIn fil m and on TV, the representation of diverse individuals, cultures, and 
stories on screen is vitally important to our viewers and our company. To ensure we’re telling authentic stories that resonate with a wide range of audiences, we strive to have diverse perspectives in every aspect of our programming at NBCUniversal and in the content we distribute on our X
fin
ity platforms.As a company uniquely positioned to educate, entertain, and empower, we are committed to bringing together diverse communities and inspiring our customers, audiences, and employees to make a positive social impact. Over the last three years, we’ve invested $645 million in cash and in-kind giving benefiting people of color.
57  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL*  News Assets includes NBC News, MSNBC, CNBC, and NBC-owned stations,  
    but does not include Telemundo Network News or Telemundo stations.
IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   58DIVERSIT y,
 EqUITy 
& INCLUSION 2020 DIVERSIT y D
ATA
NBCUniversal  
ProgrammingCommunity  
Impact
ON AIR CASH gIVIN g
C
ASH/IN-
k
IND DONATIONS INVESTED IN COMMUNITIES2018 38.9%  
2019 43.3%  
2020 44.1%2018 49.4%  
2019 50.8%  
2020 52.5%2018 35.5%  
2019 39.2%  
2020 42.9%
2018 34.9%  
2019 38.6%  
2020 38.4%2018 47.4%  
2019 49.2%  
2020 47.5%2018 29.7%  
2019 37.0%  
2020 28.8%Film NBC Primetime Scripted Series News Assets*
BEHIND THE CAMERA
2018 39.0%  
2019 35.0%  
2020 34.5%2018 57.6%  
2019 58.4%  
2020 58.7%2018 21.6%  
2019 30.0%  
2020 31.8%
2018 23.7%  
2019 25.3%  
2020 26.0%2018 27.4%  
2019 27.3%  
2020 27.6%2018 13.2%  
2019 23.2%  
2020 8.3%Film NBC Primetime Scripted Series News Assets*Women
People of Colork
ey
2020
2020
20202018
2018
2018To organizations led by and serving people of color
To organizations led by and serving women2019
2019
2019
$18M
$3M$465M$20M$4M$428M$31M$5M$496M
Total dollars generated through 
matching gift programNumber of employees who participated in our matching gift programNumber of nonprofit organizations selected by employees to receive donations2020 EMPLO y EE g IVIN g
$5M 6.4K 5.6K59  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   60E
NVIRONMENT NB
CU
NIVERSAL  P
ROg
RAMMIN
g
03
ENVIRONMENT
We believe in protecting the environment where we live 
and work, so we have a sustainable planet now and in the future. Across our businesses, we are working to improve our footprint by minimizing our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, sourcing more renewable energy, reducing waste, and increasing our energy efficiency, among other efforts.61  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   62E
NVIRONMENT
It’s more important than ever to take steps to lessen 
our environmental footprint and be part of the 
solution to creating a sustainable planet today and 
for generations to come. Across our entire global 
operations, including Comcast, NBCUniversal, and Sky, 
we are focused on reducing our GHG emissions and 
recently set the ambitious goal of being carbon neutral 
by 2035 in Scope 1 and 2 emissions.Committing 
to Carbon 
Neutral by 203563  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   64E
NVIRONMENT COMMIT
TIN
g T
O CARB
ON N
EUTRAL  
By
 2035
Carbon Neutral  
by 2035 
We have committed to becoming carbon neutral by 
2035 for Scope 1 and 2 emissions across our entire global operations.
To meet our goals, we are focused on:
Sourcing renewable and clean energy
We will shift to more zero carbon, renewable 
electricity by partnering with local utilities and investing in new renewable energy through power purchase agreements and securing renewable energy credits. 
Improving our energy efficiency
Across our buildings, network, vehicle fleets, production studios, and theme parks, we will continue to develop and implement projects to improve energy efficiency. Combined with purchasing carbon offsets to address emissions that have not yet been mitigated, these efforts will help us further reduce our carbon footprint. 
Measuring and reporting on our  
Scope 1 and 2 emissions annually
To provide transparency and help drive improvement, we will report data using the GHG Protocol in alignment with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework. We have partnered with a leading consulting firm to guide us through this and help develop our reporting and estimation approach to make sure we get it right.COMMIT TIN g T O CARB ON N EUTRAL  By  2035
We realize this public commitment is the first step, and we will continue to share our approach and progress as we work toward our goals. 
Reaching carbon neutrality will mean reducing and 
offsetting the more than 2 million tons of carbon 
dioxide equivalents (CO
2e) in our footprint today, 
equivalent to nearly 500,000 passenger cars. The 
majority of our emissions stem from the purchased electricity powering our global operations, including our facilities, data centers, and theme parks, as well as our network that keeps people connected. These emissions account for the largest portion of our overall GHG footprint.  More details can be found in our Carbon Footprint Data Report.TOTAL gHg  EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 AND 2)
2020=~2.2M tons CO2e
2019=~2.5M tons CO2e
*Scope 1 and 2 Emissions across Comcast, NBCUniversal, and SkyWe are leveraging best practices from Sky to help us operationally reach our goals. In 2006, Sky was the first media company in the world to go carbon neutral and has committed to be net zero for Scopes 1, 2, and 3 by 2030.Our 2020 Scope 1 and 2 Emissions*
SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS: 
Direct GHG emissions from sources we  
own or control
SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS: 
Indirect GHG emissions with the purchase of electricity, steam, heat, or cooling
Sky’s net zero science-based targets also recently received approval from the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). The globally respected SBTi commended Sky’s 1.5°C-aligned targets, currently the most ambitious designation available through the process and in line with the levels required to meet the Paris Agreement goals.Purchased electricity powering facilities, 
data centers, theme parks, and network
Emissions from our owned and 
operated fleet and vehicles
Generators, cooling systems, purchased 
steam, cooling, and heating
75%16%9%65  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   66E
NVIRONMENT
Increasing our reliance on low- and no-carbon energy 
sources is a key part of our strategy to become carbon 
neutral across our operations. That’s why in Houston, 
Comcast has committed to purchasing 100% renewable 
energy for our Cable facilities and network operations. 
In partnership with TXU Energy, a leading Texas-based 
retail electricity provider, more than 50 Comcast facilities 
and 11,000 power supplies throughout the area will now 
be powered by renewable energy from the Foard City 
Wind Farm through 2031. The TXU Energy agreement 
covers nearly all of Comcast’s Houston region electricity 
footprint, with the remainder covered by the purchase of 
renewable energy certificates (RECs).Powering our Houston 
Region with 100% 
Green Energy FPO
67  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   68E
NVIRONMENT PO
WERIN
g 
OUR  H
OUSTON  R
Eg
ION  WITH  
100% 
gREEN  E
NER g
y 
Increasing Energy 
Efficiency
In a single year, the renewable energy generated 
through this TXU Energy agreement is estimated to be equivalent to 70,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO
2) emissions, the equivalent 
of the emissions produced by 15,000 passenger cars for one year. By the end of the contract, the renewable energy generated will result in a reduction of more than 779,000 metric tons of CO
2 emissions from our Texas operations. The 
Houston region also recently invested in energy-efficient LED lighting for many of its buildings, which will reduce energy consumption by more than 1 million kilowatt hours annually.
“Our work in Houston is a great example of how 
Comcast is looking at operational efficiencies to conserve energy while also investing in renewable energy,” says Ralph Martinez, Senior Vice President of Comcast’s Houston region. “These efforts will help us reach our goal in Houston of 100% renewable energy and are one example of how the company can impactfully reduce our environmental footprint and make a difference in our communities.”
T aking Steps to Reach  
Our Goal 
The work in Houston builds on the progress the company has made when it comes to supplying our operations with renewable energy. In California and Chicago, renewable energy powers several of our facilities. But there is more still to be done. To reduce our overall energy use, we’ve invested in switching to LED lighting in our buildings and have built some of the most environmentally friendly and energy efficient buildings in the country. Our Comcast Technology Center in Philadelphia is LEED Platinum, one of the highest green building certifications. Increasing our energy efficiency and sourcing renewable energy will help us reach our goal of carbon neutral by 2035.
Our Comcast Center Campus in Philadelphia includes 
the double LEED Platinum Comcast Technology Center.
69  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   70E
NVIRONMENT
The films that comprise the Jurassic World franchise, one of 
the biggest in the history of cinema, share a common theme: 
protecting the planet and wildlife. So it made perfect sense 
for the cast and the crew of Jurassic World: Dominion , from 
Amblin Entertainment and Universal Pictures, to enthusiastically 
embrace our NBCUniversal Sustainable Production Program . 
Launched over a decade ago, the program aims to reduce the 
environmental impact on set of all directly-produced film and TV 
productions within the NBCUniversal portfolio.
The film’s environmental plan started with a kickoff meeting to 
develop its own specific sustainability strategy. The team used 
tools like the NBCUniversal Sustainable Production Infographics  
and solicited ideas from a production crew eager to make 
sustainability a priority on set of this latest film in the iconic 
franchise. The team also brought on an experienced sustainability 
manager to oversee efforts throughout the production.Prioritizing 
Sustainability During 
Production 71  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   72E
NVIRONMENT P
RIORITIZIN
g SUS
TAINABILIT y
 DURIN
g P
RODUCTION  
Increasing Energy 
Awareness on Set 
The majority of Jurassic World: Dominion  was 
filmed at Pinewood Studios near London, which 
now runs on 100% renewable energy. Since energy use is always a large part of the footprint of any production, access to renewable power helps reduce that impact. When the production couldn’t tie into grid power, they used generators fueled by renewable diesel, which has approximately 70% less lifecycle carbon emissions than standard diesel. While this isn’t the perfect solution to reducing carbon emissions on set, renewable diesel burns cleaner, keeps the air healthier for cast and crew, and serves as a stepping stone while studios pilot new electric technologies that will meet the unique needs of production.
Even with the challenges of returning to set during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, the basic practices of the sustainable production program continued to be implemented. This included comprehensive recycling and food waste collection, minimizing plastic water bottle usage, and digitizing paperwork. They also eliminated beef from their menu, which is a significant way to reduce impact. And while there was less food waste due to safety protocols, the film still donated more than 2,000 pounds of excess food, equaling approximately 1,660 meals for those in need. Sustainable Solutions  
in Unlikely Places
Another area of sustainability focused on the film’s intricate sets. To build set walls, the construction team used plywood that was FSC-certified, which ensures it was harvested responsibly. The silicon and fiberglass molds used to make the animatronic dinosaurs were recycled by a company called Green Clover , which was able to melt the materials down 
so they could be used again after production. Tons of set materials such as furniture, props, wardrobe, and more were also donated to local organizations around London.
Sustainable solutions were also found in unlikely 
areas, such as the stunt department. Stunt wire and safety equipment must be brand new in every instance to meet stringent safety requirements, and typically cannot be donated or reused afterwards. However, Extreme Rigging , the company that 
provided the stunt wire, has developed a process to take the used wire, reduce it to its individual fibers, and turn it into new stunt wire. 
100%
renewable energy at Pinewood Studios
2,000+
pounds of food donated during production
73  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   74E
NVIRONMENT
Sky became the first carbon neutral media company in 
2006 and in February 2020 announced plans to go net zero 
carbon by 2030 across its entire value chain. Sky’s Science 
Based Targets initiative (SBTi) -approved plan includes 
cutting emissions created from the use of its products, its 
suppliers across the world, and by its business by 50%, and 
investing in natural carbon sinks to absorb the emissions it 
has not cut yet to reach net zero by 2030.Aiming for 
Sky Zero75  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL IMPACT REPORT 2021  /   76E
NVIRONMENT A
IMIN
g 
FOR  
Sky Z
ERO
Committed to become net zero carbon by 2030.
Sky Sports became the first broadcaster to 
sign up for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC)’s Sports for Action Framework. An Embedded Strategy
During 2020, Sky worked to further embed its Sky Zero strategy across its businesses, encouraging employees to make decisions through the lens of reducing impacts on the environment. Already, Sky has introduced over 150 plug-in hybrid electric vans (PHEV) to its engineering fleet. Sky also started building Sky Studios Elstree , which aims to be the 
world’s most environmentally friendly TV and film studios when it opens in 2022. 
The Sky content teams have also really embraced 
reaching net zero. Sky Sports is leading the way in sports broadcasting, with each of its Leading the Way
“ H aving our ambitious targets approved by the 
Science Based T argets initiative shows the 
integrity of our Sky Zero commitment. W e will report transparently and show how our carbon reductions are in line with the recommendations of climate scientists. Now is the time for action, not just intention, and as a Principal Partner and Media Partner for COP26, we want to drive real change, because the world cannot wait.”
Dana Strong
Chief ExecutiveSky Grouphost broadcasts set to be certified sustainable 
production under  albert , a leading film and TV 
sustainability organization, in 2021. Sky News recently became a founding member of the albert 
news consortium , with the vision of setting 
standards for sustainability in an industry with complicated demands on reporting. Sky has also introduced a set of sustainable production principles and a Planet Test  for entertainment content, to 
help commissioning, production, and editorial teams across Sky and Sky Studios consider the environment and champion sustainability on and off screen.Sky continues to show leadership in the sustainability space in our industry. In 2020, the business reached several important milestones: 
Announced as a Principal Partner and Media Partner for the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26).
Expanded fleet to include 151 new PHEV engineer 
vans, which emit 60% fewer emissions.77  /   COMCAST NBCUNIVERSALE
NVIRONMENT
©Comcast NBCUniversal 2021. All rights reserved.