Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
2018Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
2
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018This year, we celebrate our 55th anniversary as a company.  It’s incredible 
to think about how we’ve evolved from a Philadelphia startup to where we 
are now.  So much has changed for us as we’ve grown.  But one constant 
is our deep and unwavering commitment to each other and to the 
communities that we have the profound privilege to serve.
BRIAN L. ROBERTS
Chairman and CEO, Comcast Corporation
It is our responsibility to give back to the communities where our 
employees and customers live and work.  This belief is at the heart of 
our community impact initiatives and our company’s values agenda.
DAVID L. COHEN
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer, Comcast Corporation
David L. Cohen Brian L. RobertsComcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
3
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018
INSIDE
Bridging the Opportunity Divide 
Building a Community through Civic Engagement 
Using Our Platforms to Inform and Inspire 
Supporting Our Military Community 
Sustainable Excellence from the Ground Up 
Transforming the Experience, One Customer at a Time t Comcast NBCUniversal, we believe success starts with opportunity.  We are 
investing our resources in programs and people that are focused on transforming 
communities, expanding access to technology, helping more people develop digital 
skills, and empowering entrepreneurs to use technology for good.  This year’s corporate 
social responsibility report captures some of the many stories of the talented and passionate 
changemakers who are leading the drive toward a bright future.Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
4
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018In today’s economy, technology can be a great equalizer.  Access to the power of the internet — 
and to the tools to harness it — increases economic opportunity and opens up a world  
of possibilities.  Yet, many in the United States do not have that access and lack essential 
digital skills. 
One of our most critical priorities as a company is helping more people fully participate in the digital economy.  
Comcast has connected more than 4 million low-income individuals to the power of the internet at home 
through Internet Essentials, the nation’s largest and most comprehensive high-speed internet adoption 
program.  But we know that inclusion is about more than access alone — since 2011, Comcast NBCUniversal has 
provided $350 million in cash and in-kind support to fund digital inclusion initiatives that have reached nearly  
5 million people nationally.   
We are committed to closing the opportunity divide — the gap between people who have the knowledge, 
resources, and support to take part in the modern economy and those who are at risk of being left behind.Bridging the  
Opportunity DivideComcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
5
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018Unlocking Digital Literacy
Digital literacy and access to technology can ignite 
new possibilities and open doors to career paths.   
Last year, Comcast NBCUniversal and the Boys & Girls 
Clubs of America introduced the next generation 
of My.Future, a user-led web experience helping 
kids learn how to code, stay safe online, prevent 
cyberbullying, and more.  My.Future is accessible 
to more than 4 million youths at Clubs nationwide.  
Meanwhile in our hometown, we partnered with the 
nonprofit Philadelphia Opportunities Industrialization 
Center to support low-income residents through 
programs including coding boot camps, digital media, 
and entrepreneurship classes.  Then, together with 
national nonprofit The Arc, we launched six Tech 
Coaching Centers around the country to provide 
internet access and one-on-one instruction for people 
with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
Addressing the Gender Gap in STEM
Jobs in science, technology, engineering, and math 
(STEM) have grown substantially in the last few 
decades, but the number of women working in those 
jobs has not.  The divide begins between the fourth 
and the eighth grades, especially for low-income girls.  
With support from Comcast NBCUniversal, Girls Inc. 
of Metro Denver is working to close the STEM gender 
gap, one girl at a time. In 2017 the group launched a 
five-year program that combines intensive summer 
courses, enrichment activities throughout the school 
year, paid summer internships, and a trip abroad 
focused on STEM knowledge in a global setting. (Opposite) The digital training programs we 
fund through our national and local nonprofit 
community partners have reached nearly 5 million 
low-income Americans since 2011. 
Top: The Tech Coaching Center at The Arc Southern 
Maryland is helping people with intellectual and 
developmental disabilities build and hone their 
tech skills. 
Bottom: Girls Inc. of Metro Denver is helping 
address the gender gap by encouraging middle 
school and high school girls to find their passion  
for STEM with hands-on learning.COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL HAS PROVIDED 
$350M
IN CASH AND  
IN-KIND SUPPORT 
TO FUND DIGITAL INCLUSION INITIATIVES.Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
6
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018Clockwise from top left: Felecia Hatcher, founder of Code Fever, is one of 
NationSwell’s 2017 Tech Impact AllStars. Two young people navigate One Degree’s 
online social services navigator. Rey Faustino demonstrates One Degree. Code 
Fever provides youth with the opportunity to learn computer science skills vital 
to succeeding in today’s digital economy.Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
7
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018Spurring Innovation and Coding in Miami
An inspirational figure and self-taught coder, Felicia 
Hatcher has made herself one of the nation’s leading 
advocates for innovation and entrepreneurship 
among young people of color.  Last year, Comcast 
NBCUniversal, in partnership with NationSwell, 
named Hatcher a 2017 Tech Impact AllStar.  Hatcher’s 
work includes founding Code Fever, a Miami nonprofit 
dedicated to ridding black communities of innovation 
deserts by helping minority students between the  
ages of 13 and 21 learn to code, pitch business ideas, 
and create inclusive startup ecosystems.  With the  
support of Comcast NBCUniversal, Code Fever is  
doing more than just introducing technology to 
minority students.  It’s also helping change the  
culture in their communities.  We’re members of our communities. When we see issues like the racial wealth 
gap and the shrinking middle class, we use our influence and resources to create 
solutions. It’s more than the right thing to do — it’s who we are as a company. 
DALILA WILSON-SCOTT
Senior Vice President of Community Impact, Comcast Corporation
 
3,000
YOUTH AND ADULTS  
HAVE LEARNED CODING 
OR ACCESSED TECH
RESOURCES THROUGH OUR NONPROFIT 
PARTNER CODE FEVER SINCE 2012.
Revolutionizing Social Services Access
Silicon Valley has made dramatic changes to 
the way the modern world works, but its impact 
on marginalized, vulnerable, and low-income 
communities has been significantly more muted.   
Rey Faustino set out to change that.  With support 
from nonprofit accelerator Fast Forward and Comcast 
NBCUniversal, Faustino launched One Degree, which 
he describes as “Yelp for social services.”  The platform 
unifies and untangles the path to nearly 12,000 Bay 
Area resources.  Through One Degree, users can apply 
for a housing subsidy, find the phone number of a 
crisis counselor, connect with a nutritional program for 
children, and get a referral to an immigration lawyer — 
all in the span of a few minutes.  Dalila Wilson-ScottComcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
8
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018We know firsthand that community engagement opens doors and crosses divides.   
It fosters collaboration, which helps address local challenges and tackle critical 
social issues.  
It’s also at the very heart of who we are as a company — and how we move forward.  From our founding, we’ve 
been active in the civic life of the communities we serve. And today we continue to invest our time, resources, 
storytelling platforms, and technology to serve the people in the cities and communities where we work and live. 
We firmly believe citizen service empowers change and helps create stronger, more vibrant communities.Building a Community 
through Civic Engagement
MORE THAN
115,000
VOLUNTEERS IN 23 
COUNTRIES PARTICIPATED
IN OUR ANNUAL COMCAST CARES DAY IN 2018.
Volunteering Our Hearts, Hands,  
and Expertise
In 2018 we again led the nation’s largest single-day 
corporate volunteer event.  More than 115,000 
volunteers in 23 countries participated in our annual 
Comcast Cares Day.  We celebrated engaging our  
1 millionth volunteer since this company tradition 
began in 2001.  Beyond this  single day of impact, we 
invest throughout the year by connecting community 
organizations to our employees’ unique professional 
talents.  HR for Good pairs nonprofit leaders with our staff for a series of hour-long consultations.  Our Black 
Employee Network teams up to teach coding skills with 
the kids from Boys & Girls Clubs of America.  And both 
our TechWomen and our Women’s Network partner 
with organizations like Girls Inc., Girl Develop It, and 
Step Up to serve as mentors and career coaches.
Comcast Cares Day 2018 rallied more than 115,000 
volunteers to support more than 1,200 community 
projects in 23 countries. Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
9
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018Supporting Underserved Students 
through City Year
Our long-standing partnership with City Year 
deepens every year.  A member of the AmeriCorps 
national service network, City Year recruits 18-to-
25-year-olds to work at public schools in high-need 
urban communities, helping students stay on track 
to graduate from high school.  In 2017, 3,000 City 
Year AmeriCorps volunteers served nearly 200,000 
students in some of the most challenged public 
schools in the country.  Last year, we celebrated 
the work of Dan Foley as one of our six Comcast 
NBCUniversal Leadership Award winners.  A City 
Year alumnus, Foley leads the Jacksonville, Florida, 
site.  His team has expanded the program from 2 to 
12 schools, growing from 75 members to over 100, 
reaching more than 9,000 students each year.
Serving Children through Red Nose Day
NBC’s annual Red Nose Day Special has brought 
together some of the biggest names in entertainment 
for the single purpose of ending child poverty.  In 2017, 
the live one-hour show raised more than $35 million 
by combining comedy, entertainment, and short films 
on children in need.  The special sent Julia Roberts to 
Kenya for an episode of Running Wild with Bear Grylls.  
It also featured a mini-sequel to Love Actually, which 
caught up with cast members from the beloved holiday 
film.  The 2018 live broadcast traveled to Puerto Rico 
to share stories of children hit hard by Hurricane 
Maria and raised $42 million — more than any of the 
previous three specials.We recognize that our platform enables 
us to entertain, connect, and mobilize our 
viewers for important causes. 
HILARY SMITH
Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications  
and Corporate Social Responsibility, NBCUniversalTop: City Year volunteers engage with students in the classroom.
Bottom: Bear Grylls and Julia Roberts lend star power to NBC’s  
Red Nose Day Special in 2017.Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
10
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018Comcast NBCUniversal has some of the world’s most vibrant and far-reaching 
storytelling platforms across television, film, digital, and mobile.  We understand the 
responsibility these platforms afford, and embrace the opportunity to educate our 
audiences about issues that matter — and we are committed to using our platforms to engage 
with the world in meaningful ways.
Through insightful journalism, we promote greater understanding of the diverse issues facing our communities.  
Our journalists explain important social and political matters.  They hold government officials accountable.   
And they give voice to powerful stories yet to be told. Using Our Platforms  
to Inform and Inspire 
Amplifying Voices of the  
Civil Rights Movement
In September 1963, four Ku Klux Klansmen dynamited 
a church in Birmingham, Alabama.  Four young 
African-American girls died in the blast.  One survived.  
The story of survivor Sarah Collins Rudolph is one 
of more than 150 firsthand accounts of America’s 
struggle for racial equality featured in Voices of the 
Civil Rights Movement, a multimedia collaboration 
between Comcast NBCUniversal and the Equal Justice Initiative.  The project’s ambition has grown each year.  
We launched an ongoing traveling exhibit, on loan to 
museums that showcase African-American history 
and culture.  We gained a permanent presence on 
Xfinity On Demand.  In 2018, we served as technology 
sponsor for the 50th anniversary commemoration 
of MLK’s assassination, hosted by the National Civil 
Rights Museum.  In addition, MSNBC and NBC News 
produced and aired the two-hour documentary Hope 
and Fury:  MLK, the Movement and the Media.  
Being on the ground, we can touch it, 
we can feel it, and we can infuse our 
reporting with personal experience.
LESTER HOLT
Anchor, NBC Nightly News
(Opposite) Top: Lester Holt reports for the NBC Nightly News. 
Right: Comcast’s Voices of the Civil Rights Movement brings significant historical moments, such as the church bombing 
in Birmingham, Alabama, to life.
Bottom: Voices of the Civil Rights Movement preserves history through video interviews.Lester HoltComcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
11
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
12
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018
Top: The Meet the Press  Film Festival, in partnership with 
the American Film Institute, encourages documentary 
filmmakers to explore untold political and civic stories.
Center: Chuck Todd, moderator of Meet the Press , plans 
to build on the success of the inaugural 2017 Meet the 
Press  Film Festival and continue the series in the future.
Bottom: Local NBC and Telemundo owned stations 
collected more than 432,000 school supplies for students 
during the first “Supporting Our Schools” campaign. Meeting the Next Wave of Political 
Storytelling 
Meet the Press didn’t just shape political journalism 
on TV.  It invented it.  So the show celebrated its 70th 
anniversary by again creating something new.  In 
2017, Comcast NBCUniversal provided philanthropic 
support to the nonprofit American Film Institute to 
launch the Meet the Press Film Festival. Filmmakers 
nationwide produced documentaries covering topics 
including the opioid epidemic, prisoner reform, 
freedom of the press, and the fate of undocumented 
immigrant workers. A success from the start, the 
festival saw three of this year’s films nominated for 
Academy Awards in the Best Documentary (Short 
Subject) category.  
Supporting Local Communities through 
NBC and Telemundo 
NBC and Telemundo owned stations are deeply rooted 
in the communities they serve.  In 2017, they launched 
the “Supporting Our Schools” campaign to raise 
awareness about how individuals can help students 
and teachers get needed resources.  In partnership 
with Communities in Schools, DonorsChoose.org, 
and national nonprofits, the campaign included “Fill 
the Bus” school supply drive events that raised $1.3 
million in cash and goods.  Meanwhile in Los Angeles, 
Telemundo 52 held its 14th annual El Poder En Ti Feria 
de la Salud health fair.  The event provided more than 
30,000 attendees with access to free health screenings, 
healthy cooking demonstrations, and more. 
SCHOOL SUPPLY DRIVE EVENTS RAISED
$1.3M
IN CASH AND GOODS IN 2017.Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
13
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018
James Bryant, retired Staff Sergeant and Comcast Xfinity 
tech, is one of our proud veteran and military employees. 
Supporting  
Our Military 
Community 
Our military ties go back to our  
roots.  Before founding Comcast, 
Ralph J. Roberts served in the Navy 
during World War II.  Since then, we’ve 
sought to make things easier for veterans by 
building a supportive culture with like-minded 
teammates.  Meanwhile, we seek to serve 
military spouses who face their own challenges, 
as relocation can often limit employment 
opportunities.  Year after year, we have 
surpassed our own goals — hiring more than 
15,000 veterans, National Guard and Reserve 
members, and military spouses in the last eight 
years alone.  We work with nonprofit partners 
such as Bunker Labs to support veteran 
entrepreneurs.  For these contributions and 
more, Comcast NBCUniversal was recognized 
with the 2017 Secretary of Defense Employer 
Support Freedom Award.  
To learn more about our military commitment, visit 
corporate.comcast.com/values/military WE’VE HIRED MORE THAN
15,000
VETERANS, NATIONAL GUARD 
AND RESERVE MEMBERS, AND 
MILITARY SPOUSES
IN THE LAST EIGHT YEARS.Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
14
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018
Sustainable 
Excellence from 
the Ground Up  
When it comes to sustainability, there’s 
no shortage of determined hearts 
within the company.  Through a 
culture of sustainable innovation, we work 
to inspire environmental responsibility and 
aspire to zero emissions, zero waste, and 
100% renewable energy.  Our strategy revolves 
around four focus areas:  energy and emissions, 
materials and waste, products and experiences, 
and engagement and outreach.  We’re using 
these focus areas to transform the way we 
operate, make our experiences more efficient, 
and actively promote sustainability in the 
communities we serve.  In fact, in 2017 Comcast 
NBCUniversal committed to contributing 
500,000 green volunteer hours by 2020. 
Together, we hope to empower more employees 
to foster a cleaner, healthier environment.
To learn more about our sustainability initiatives, visit  
corporate.comcast.com/values/sustainabilityWE COMMITED TO CONTRIBUTING 
500,000
GREEN VOLUNTEER HOURS  
BY 2020.
The future, state-of-the-art Comcast 
Technology Center will feature automatic 
daylight-harvesting window shades to reduce 
the need for lighting and cooling, and is 
expected to be 50% more energy efficient  
than its sister building down the street.Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report  |  Executive Summary 
15
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018
Transforming  
the Experience,  
One Customer  
at a Time
Serving as partners to our customers and 
communities is at the core of who we are 
as a company.  With every step we take to 
bring the Comcast experience directly into our 
customers’ communities, we become known 
less as a service provider and more as a true 
member of each community we serve.  Our 
Studio Xfinity locations are designed to serve as 
hubs for the community to gather, connect, and 
learn.  And our home security and automation 
solutions offer greater independence for people 
living with disabilities.  
Community members gather for a showing of  
The Wiz at the Studio Xfinity retail store in Chicago. Our customers come away feeling different — about Comcast 
as well as the place they call home. They see us as a true 
partner in community.
MATTHEW SUMMY
Greater Chicago Regional Vice President of External Affairs, Comcast CableOur founder and my father, Ralph, believed that no business can thrive 
where its community cannot. He made giving back a priority, and today it 
is as ingrained in our DNA as innovation and entrepreneurialism. 
BRIAN L. ROBERTS
Chairman and CEO, Comcast Corporation
corporate.comcast.com/csr2018
