COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL  |  2020 VALUES REPORTTOGETHER
WE  
BUILDAt the intersection of people, 
technology, and communities, 
Comcast NBCUniversal is working 
to build opportunity for all. TABLE OF CONTENTS
Building
OUR FAMILY OF COMPANIES
Data in this report are for calendar year 2019, unless otherwise noted, and are for 
Comcast NBCUniversal only. Visit comcastcorporation.com/valuesreport for more 
data and additional information.A Message from Our Chairman 2
Our COVID-19 Response: A Reflection of Our Commitment  
to Communities  4
Tech Equity in a Global Health Crisis 6
Support for LGBTQ Equality Through Our Media Platforms  8
The Case for Getting Counted 10
A More Inclusive World  12
A Culture of Volunteerism and Service 15
Careers Through Mentoring  16
Diversity Data  18
A Diverse Supply Chain 21
A Destination for Black Film and TV 22
Diversity in Front of and Behind the Camera 23
Supportive Communities for Veterans and Their Families  24
A Better World  27
More Sustainable Operations  28A Message from  
Our Chairman
We are in the midst of one of the most challenging 
periods in our society’s history, as COVID-19 
continues to impact nearly every aspect of our 
daily lives. Crises test us, both as individuals and 
as organizations. They remind us of what matters 
most. They reveal who we are — and the core 
principles that define us.
Comcast’s values — of integrity, respect, inclusion, 
and giving back — have never been more evident 
or more important than they are today. I couldn’t 
be prouder of our company and our leaders across 
Comcast, NBCUniversal, and Sky for stepping up 
and helping to ease the burden on our employees, 
customers, and communities when they need us 
most. You can learn about our comprehensive 
response to COVID-19 on page 4.
Supporting our local communities has been core 
to our company’s DNA for nearly 60 years, and as 
we’ve grown, so has that commitment. Together 
with local leaders and nonprofits around the world, 
we work actively every day to help improve the lives 
of our neighbors, especially those who need it most. 
Hopefully you will see how these efforts came to life 
this past year as you read the report that follows. BRIAN L. ROBERTS
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
Comcast Corporation
June 1, 2020
2  2020 Values Report
Comcast’s values — 
of integrity, respect, 
inclusion, and giving 
back — have never 
been more evident or 
more important than 
they are today.
Comcast NBCUniversal 3Our COVID-19  
Response:  
A Reflection of  
Our Commitment  
to Communities As the profound impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic have 
been felt in communities around the world, it has become 
increasingly clear that the scale of this crisis will force a 
significant shift in how we live, work, and connect to what 
matters. While there is still much uncertainty ahead, we 
know that the challenges that existed before the pandemic 
are being exacerbated and that some of our most vulnerable 
populations are facing even greater risks to their health  
and wellbeing. 
Comcast NBCUniversal’s COVID-19 response reflects our 
company’s longstanding commitment to harnessing our 
people, our technology, and our unparalleled reach through 
media to connect our communities to meaningful content 
and resources. Our values have always compelled us to place 
a priority on connecting the underserved, and that has only 
been reinforced in this moment.  
COVID-19 has underscored the importance of access to  
technology and an internet connection at home for school,  
work, and basic health and human services. As the pandemic 
4  2020 Values Report
forced long-term school closures, it quickly threatened to 
create an even greater digital divide. We took immediate 
steps to expand our Internet Essentials program, offering 
two months of free service to new customers and increasing 
internet speeds for all Internet Essentials customers going 
forward. (Learn more on p. 6.) To help even more people 
stay connected, we also opened our Xfinity WiFi hotspots, 
located in businesses and outdoor locations across the U.S., 
at no cost.  
We also continue to work directly with school districts 
across the country to help connect families to the internet 
and provide access to devices at home for virtual learning. 
Looking forward, we believe that access to the internet at 
home will reap benefits that extend well beyond the near-
term need.
Beyond broadband connectivity, it is important that 
we connect communities to the resources our nonprofit 
partners are providing, including laptops and tablets, 
nutritional meals, health services, online learning tools,  
and educational mentoring. During the early days of the 
crisis, we provided flexible funding to our community 
partners so they could meet the unprecedented demand for 
basic needs in new and innovative ways. We also expanded 
our support to help them quickly offer services remotely. At the Boys & Girls Clubs of America, for example, our 
support helped make it possible for thousands of local clubs 
to shift from providing on-site after-school programming  
to becoming food distribution centers and daycare providers 
for the children of first responders. At the same time, the 
organization is continuing to expand access to MyFuture, 
its signature digital skills training program that Comcast 
helped to launch five years ago. MyFuture is one of many 
educational offerings we are helping make available through 
our partners and on our platforms. 
As we respond to this pandemic, we are paying close 
attention to how economically disadvantaged communities 
are being disproportionately impacted and how we can lean 
in to our steadfast commitment to diversity and inclusion. 
Whether it is supporting minority-owned small businesses 
with educational and operational resources through 
Telemundo and Comcast Business, or promoting anti-bias 
public service announcements across our networks given the 
rise in hate crimes against Asian Americans, we continue to 
support diverse communities.
Our employees, as always, have been key to our response 
efforts, and we continue to ensure they can do their 
essential jobs — and do them safely.
On the following pages, we are proud to share the many 
ways we act on our values, and we recognize that how 
we show up during, and after, a crisis is the true test of 
dedication.
As our world continues to evolve, Comcast NBCUniversal will 
adapt to respond to the needs of the diverse communities 
we serve and will reinforce our unwavering commitment to 
connecting people to what matters most. During the early days of COVID-19, we provided flexible 
funding to our community partners to help them deliver 
basic needs — including helping the Boys & Girls Clubs 
distribute food to families in need.Please visit corporate.
comcast.com/covid-19  
for more detail about our 
companywide response 
to support our employees, 
customers, and communities 
during the pandemic, as 
well as the most up-to-date 
information about our efforts.
Comcast NBCUniversal 5
Building
Tech Equity 
in a Global 
Health Crisis
and leads to inclusion, and inclusion is at the heart of the 
social change we seek with the Internet Essentials program.”
Since the launch of Internet Essentials in 2011, the goal of 
the program has been to help level the playing field and 
give as many people as possible the opportunity to succeed. 
When we started, we focused on reducing the digital divide’s 
impact on the “homework gap,” which is the inability of 
students from low-income households to access online 
educational resources from home due to a lack of internet 
service. Over the years, we have worked with hundreds of 
nonprofit partners to expand the program to help connect 
seniors, community college students, families receiving 
public housing assistance, and veterans, among others.
In 2019, we announced the largest expansion of the Internet 
Essentials program ever, to include all qualified low-income 
households including those with people with disabilities. 
While the program’s overall success has been impressive, 
we’ve seen the real impact of this investment in the stories 
we hear from individuals: More students are able to do 
their homework, apply for scholarships and colleges, and 
learn new digital technologies like coding, while adults 
have accessed healthcare information, stayed connected to 
family and friends across town and around the world, looked 
and applied for new jobs, and pursued their own dreams to 
be entrepreneurs — all from the safety of their own homes.
Over the last decade, we have helped people move across 
the digital inclusion continuum: from increasing technology 
access, to developing skills, to ultimately leveraging those 
skills for economic mobility. We have focused in particular 
on creating opportunities for groups often underrepresented 
in tech — including girls, people of color, and people with 
disabilities, among others — to develop tech skills and 
expand their horizons. $650 M
invested in digital literacy training and awareness to date
In today’s digital age, technology is the primary conduit to 
economic opportunity, and it is vital to how we work, play, 
learn, and connect with one another. The ability to access 
technology from home is especially important — and is 
something that has always been core to who we are as a 
company. 
At Comcast NBCUniversal, we understand how 
transformational connectivity can be for individuals and 
families, and COVID-19 has underscored the value of a 
broadband connection. As millions of people practice social 
distancing and shelter in place, they have turned to the 
internet to find news about the virus, continue school online, 
work remotely, access healthcare information, and more. 
The abrupt transition has shined a spotlight on the digital 
divide, which is an issue we have been focused on for nearly 
a decade. Since 2011, our Internet Essentials program has 
connected more than 8 million people from households in 
low-income neighborhoods, many for the very first time.
Once it became clear that social distancing by staying at 
home was going to be imperative to slowing the spread 
of COVID-19, we responded immediately by offering 
two months of free internet service to any new Internet 
Essentials customer. In addition, we partnered with 
Common Sense Media’s Wide Open School initiative to 
promote free educational content from Khan Academy, 
National Geographic, Noggin, PBS, Scholastic, Sesame 
Workshop, and many others, so students could continue to 
learn while at home.
“These last few extraordinary months have reinforced just 
how valuable home internet access is for every American,” 
says Karima Zedan, Vice President, Internet Essentials, 
Community Engagement and Impact. “We believe that 
having an internet connection at home is transformative 
6  2020 Values Report
“Technology can be a great equalizer, but we know that 
for technology to truly be empowering, individuals and 
institutions need access to quality training and resources to 
grow their skills and overall digital proficiency,” says Dalila 
Wilson-Scott, Senior Vice President for Community Impact 
at Comcast Corporation and President of the Comcast 
NBCUniversal Foundation. “That’s why we have invested 
more than $650 million to date in digital literacy training 
and awareness — and it’s why, in light of the pandemic, 
we will continue to invest in digital initiatives for our 
communities.”
We know that it is important to be flexible and responsive 
to help our partners pivot where necessary and to use 
technology to better serve their clients’ needs. Assistive 
technology and targeted tech coaching have always 
been central to our serving individuals with both physical 
and developmental disabilities as they pursue paths to 
independence. We have continued our support of both 
group and one-on-one coaching at The Arc  affiliates 
across the country, and we are identifying thoughtful 
technology upgrades that will help the organization provide 
personalized service and reach more clients remotely. For 
Easterseals, we have funded a program that will help digitize 
their training resources and expand their ability to certify Internet Essentials is the nation’s largest and most 
comprehensive high-speed broadband adoption program 
for low-income households.
service partners virtually. This will help expand the number 
of locations that are compliant with the Americans with 
Disabilities Act and that have the appropriate gear and 
training to meet transportation needs.
Many of our partners are still managing through these 
challenging times and becoming much more dependent 
on various forms of technology for connecting with clients, 
donors, and the broader community. Finding different ways 
to authentically connect with audiences will be an essential 
skill in this pandemic. 
We know that many families are struggling and that the 
economic impacts of the pandemic will be lasting and 
profound, particularly for marginalized communities. We 
remain committed to helping connect as many people as 
possible to the power of the internet and enabling them to 
participate, and succeed, in our digital world. 
Comcast NBCUniversal 7
Building  
Support for LGBTQ Equality 
Through Our Media Platforms 
The men and women who fought back against a police raid 
on a gay nightclub in New York City’s Greenwich Village 
didn’t anticipate their actions would lead to a civil rights 
movement. But the uprising at the Stonewall Inn in the 
early hours of June 28, 1969, galvanized a revolution to 
secure equality for members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) community in the U.S.
To honor the 50th anniversary of the start of that movement 
— and to continue advancing its cause — Comcast NBCUniversal harnessed the power and reach of our media 
and storytelling platforms to educate audiences about this 
landmark event. Our Nightly News Films and our LGBTQ 
digital platform, NBC Out, produced a four-part digital 
documentary series, Stonewall 50: The Revolution,covering 
the pre- and post-Stonewall movement for equality, the 
six-day Stonewall riot, and modern-day Pride celebrations. 
We believe it is important to explain the significance of 
Stonewall and showcase the progress made, as well as the 
ongoing struggles that inform the work still ahead. 
8  2020 Values Report
In conjunction with the docu-series release, Comcast 
NBCUniversal became the first company to sponsor the 
development of a National LGBTQ Digital Archive Hub. Our 
contribution is helping to digitize important materials that 
document LGBTQ history in America, ensuring that current 
and future generations understand the significant progress 
the LGBTQ community has made toward equality, while still 
knowing there remains work to be done.
“It’s extremely rare to see a corporation not only invest in 
an LGBTQ organization, but also invest to this extent in 
something that will have a national impact,” says Jennifer 
C. Gregg, Executive Director of the ONE Archives Foundation, 
which is partnering with the Smithsonian’s National 
Museum of American History on the initiative.
The release of the docu-series and the launch of the Digital 
Archive Hub were cornerstones of our 2019 Pride Month 
celebrations. Comcast also added 1,200 hours of Xfinity 
Video programming through the LGBTQ Film & TV collection, 
a first-of-its-kind grouping of diverse, community-
endorsed content. In addition, MSNBC aired the primetime 
documentary Rebellion! Stonewall. 
Across our company, we honor the contributions of the 
LGBTQ community and support the many employees who 
participated in Pride parades across the country and shared 
personal moments of impact.
Meagan Fitzgerald can attest to just how much things 
have changed. A news anchor at NBC4 Washington, an 
NBC-owned-and-operated television station in Washington 
D.C., Fitzgerald announced her engagement to her 
girlfriend on the air, using her platform to share a message 
of encouragement, especially for LGBTQ youth. “It takes 
courage to be your true, authentic self, no matter who you 
are,” she told viewers at the start of 2019 Pride Month.100 %
score on the Human 
Rights Campaign’s 
2020 Corporate 
Equality Index for the 
seventh time in eight 
years, and named a 
Best Place to Work  
for LGBTQ Equality
Comcast NBCUniversal employees celebrate at the  
2019 Philadelphia Pride Parade.An image of activist Marsha P. Johnson from the 
documentary series Stonewall 50: The Revolution.
“NBC is the home for dynamic content and storytelling, 
and Stonewall 50 is an extension of that,” says Yvette Miley, 
Senior Vice President of MSNBC and NBC News. “We are 
proud and honored to champion such a significant moment 
in history.”
Despite advancements in LGBTQ rights in recent years, the 
challenges for the community continue. “Equality is not a 
fixed position on a map,” Miley explains. “Some people may 
think the LGBTQ rights journey is done and the struggle is 
over, but it isn’t. Our job is to continuously educate.”
To spread the word about the docu-series, Comcast 
NBCUniversal held public screenings and panel discussions 
with writer and producer Sekiya Dorsett and LGBTQ leaders 
like Mark Segal, who was 18 years old when he joined the 
Stonewall riots.
“I would have never dreamed 50 years ago that I’d be 
advising a media company that not only celebrates its 
LGBTQ employees day after day but also makes LGBTQ 
equality a centerpiece of its platforms,” says Segal, a 
member of Comcast NBCUniversal’s external Joint Diversity 
Advisory Council.
Comcast NBCUniversal 9
Building
the Case 
for Getting 
Counted
When it comes to the 2020 Census, Comcast NBCUniversal 
and Telemundo have a clear message for all Americans:  
Get counted. 
The 2020 Census will impact communities for the next 
decade, determining congressional representation and 
the allocation of hundreds of billions in federal funding 
every year. In the spirit of connectivity and community, 
our company launched a comprehensive, multifaceted 
campaign to educate people about the importance of the 
census and to help lower barriers to online participation. In 
total, we invested more than $2 million in grants and in-kind 
contributions to support these efforts.
For the first time, people are being encouraged to 
participate in the census online, although pen and paper 
will still be available as an option.
Telemundo’s campaign, Hazte Contar (Get Counted), is 
a multimedia platform in both Spanish and English that 
Telemundo and nonprofit partners are using to connect with 
— and educate — Latinos. Since the launch in March 2019, 
we have partnered with more than 50 national and local 
organizations to expand the campaign’s reach. 
“Historically, the census has undercounted diverse 
communities — especially the Hispanic community and 
particularly Hispanic children,” says Mónica Gil, Chief 
Marketing Officer and Executive Vice President of NBCU 
Telemundo Enterprises. “An undercount can lead to 
communities missing out on federal funding for critical 
public services and fair representation in Congress.”
With approximately 58 million Latinos in the U.S. (the 
country’s largest minority group), the stakes for an 
undercount are high. NBCUniversal and Telemundo are 
uniquely positioned to help support a more accurate count 
of the Latino community, with the combined networks We ran 12 census-related public service announcements, like 
the one shown above, on our Telemundo and NBC stations 
nationwide. The announcements increased awareness about 
the 2020 Census and pointed people to more information.
reaching 98% of U.S. Hispanic TV households, in Spanish and 
English, across 210 markets. 
Through Hazte Contar, Telemundo offered a robust suite of 
digital resources to answer questions and alleviate concerns 
about completing the census online. 
“Comcast NBCUniversal and Telemundo listened to our 
concerns about the need for accurate census information 
to be disseminated nationwide,” says Arturo Vargas, CEO 
of the NALEO Educational Fund, a key partner for Comcast 
NBCUniversal in reaching Hispanic communities regarding 
the census. “The company stepped up and is using its 
platforms to shine a powerful light on this important issue 
with real consequences for our community.” 
We want everyone to be able to participate in the first-ever 
digital census, and we are committed to utilizing our unique 
position to support connectivity for all communities. In fact, 
because of our strong relationships with many nonprofit 
partners, the U.S. Department of Commerce asked us to 
collaborate with the U.S. Census Bureau to do what we 
could to encourage census participation nationwide. 
10  2020 Values ReportOne way we did this was by extending Hazte Contar, and its 
English counterpart Get Counted, to the Xfinity X1 platform, 
where we are reaching millions of viewers.
Our X1 Census Destination page answers questions, 
addresses concerns, and dispels myths about the census. It’s 
also where customers can request a link to the U.S. Census 
Bureau’s website that is then texted to their mobile phones, 
enabling them to complete the census online. In addition, 
we’re running public service announcements with partner 
organizations such as Fair Count, the National Urban Indian 
Family Coalition, and several Asian-American Pacific Islander 
organizations that assisted us in reaching communities with 
populations that speak Asian languages, including Chinese, 
Vietnamese, Korean, and Hmong.  
Comcast also helped to fund frontline organizations 
that offered census-related support for, and outreach 
to, groups that are often undercounted. These grants 
increased the capacity of organizations that were best 
positioned to remove barriers to trust, increase access to $2M+ 
in grants and in-kind 
contributions from 
Comcast NBCUniversal 
to support census 
education efforts
the digital resources needed to complete the census, and 
bolster participation. Grant recipients included the Asian 
Roundtable of Colorado, the Detroit Employment Solutions 
Corporation, the Massachusetts Nonprofit Network, and the 
New Mexico Black Leadership Council. 
“I’m very proud to work for a company that invested the 
time, energy, and resources to get the word out about the 
census,” says Christina Kolbjornsen, Senior Vice President 
of Corporate and External Affairs for Telemundo. “This isn’t 
about ratings or viewers. It’s about making a difference in 
our communities for funding, services, hospitals, and schools 
for the next 10 years.”
Comcast NBCUniversal 11Building 
a More Inclusive World 
Jimmy Curran has never let spinal muscular atrophy slow 
him down. The research analyst, children’s book author, 
and avid sports fan lives a full and independent life in 
Philadelphia. He also relies on help from friends and  
family to perform some important tasks, which, until 
recently, included navigating his television experience with  
a remote control. 
These days, Curran operates the TV himself, thanks to 
Comcast’s Xfinity X1 Eye Control remote, a cutting-edge 
technology that enables customers to switch channels and 
search for programming using only their eyes. “I was very surprised at how easy it is for me to use on my 
own,” says Curran of the technology, which landed a spot 
on TIME magazine’s 2019 list of best inventions. “This remote 
allows me to operate the TV just as anybody else would.”
At Comcast NBCUniversal, we are committed to making 
our products, services, and experiences accessible to the 
widest possible audiences and creating new pathways to 
independence. In recent years, we launched the industry’s 
first talking TV guide, introduced a voice-operated remote 
control, produced the country’s first live entertainment 
program accessible to people with visual disabilities, and 
became the first cable company to offer customer service in 
American Sign Language. A demonstration of the Xfinity X1  
Eye Control remote.
12  2020 Values Report
Our Comcast accessibility team includes engineers and 
subject matter experts who work across the business to 
ensure that inclusivity is baked into our product design 
from the earliest stages, much as customer experience, 
sustainability, and security are factored in at the start of the 
new product development cycle. We believe that when we 
make a product more inclusive, we make the product better 
for everyone.
“We prioritize accessibility because we build great 
experiences for all of our customers. It’s a business 
imperative,” says Charlie Herrin, Executive Vice President 
and Chief Product Officer for Comcast Cable. “An estimated 
one-third of all U.S. households include someone with a 
disability. We don’t want to create exciting new products, 
only to tell certain communities and audiences that these 
experiences aren’t available to them.” 
Our audiences include James Baldwin, an 18-year U.S. Army 
veteran who was injured in the Gulf War and now has one 
prosthetic eye and limited sight in the other. Baldwin had 
been taking advantage of the many accessibility features 
on X1 — such as the voice remote, talking guide, and vast 
library of described content — to enjoy his favorite movies 
and TV shows. But now he is able to watch TV again through 
our Xfinity Stream app integration with virtual reality 
magnifying smartglasses, which give people with low vision 
the ability to see. “Technology really plays a big part in all of 
our lives, and it helps us be a whole lot more independent,” 
says Baldwin. Our partnership with the smartglasses manufacturer, 
NuEyes, is just one of the many ways Comcast NBCUniversal 
supports customers with sensory, physical, and 
developmental disabilities. In 2019, we expanded eligibility 
for our digital inclusion program, Internet Essentials, to 
include low-income people with disabilities. To roll that out, 
we worked with organizations from across the disability 
community. For example, our longstanding partnerships 
with The Arc  and Easterseals helped us to spread the word 
about these digital literacy and technology resources for 
people with disabilities. 
“Comcast understands how absolutely vital it is for people 
with disabilities to have access to the internet at home, 
and how crucial it is to have the digital skills and tools to 
use it successfully,” says Maria Town, President and Chief 
Executive Officer of the American Association for People 
with Disabilities, which received a grant from Comcast to 
help fund digital literacy programs. 
We are also committed to making our own workplaces 
inclusive for employees of all abilities. In 2019, for the fourth 
consecutive year, Comcast NBCUniversal was awarded 
a Leading Disability Employer Seal™ by the National 
Organization on Disability.48 M
people in the U.S. live with  
physical disabilities2M
Comcast customers use at  
least one X1 accessibility option
Xfinity customer Jimmy Curran operates the Xfinity X1 Eye 
Control remote. 
James Baldwin uses the NuEyes technology.
Comcast NBCUniversal 13
In 2019: 
 120 K
volunteers in Nearly $1M   
donated by employees 
in the first year of our 
new Employee Disaster 
Assistance Fund
23
countries  600 
communities and 
14  2020 Values ReportBuilding
a Culture of    
 Volunteerism 
and Service
Tina Simmons has spent two decades at Comcast 
NBCUniversal leading human resources and customer 
service teams. For nearly all of those years, she has also lent 
her deep expertise and skills to nonprofit boards — first as 
a volunteer director with the Urban League of Philadelphia 
and now as a Boys & Girls Club of America National Trustee 
in the Southeast Region. 
“Something I see with many nonprofit boards and staff is the 
need for more support from those with hands-on business 
experience,” says Simmons. “They are terrific fundraisers, 
but they are sometimes missing the management, 
operational, and leadership skills that can be more easily 
attained from working in a corporate environment.”
Simmons is just one of thousands of Comcast NBCUniversal 
employees who contribute to our company’s culture of 
volunteerism and service, donating their time and talents 
on nonprofit boards and in myriad other ways that deliver 
meaningful impact. We continue to strengthen the legacy 
of service that has defined our company since it was 
founded by Ralph Roberts in 1963. And by creating more opportunities for our people to contribute their time and 
give to the causes they care about, we are helping to 
strengthen the communities where our employees work  
and live.
“From our Comcast Cares employee volunteerism program 
— which reaches more than 1,000 nonprofits in 23 countries 
worldwide — to ongoing mentorship initiatives to our new 
nonprofit board training program, we focus on making 
a positive difference every day,” says Dalila Wilson-Scott, 
Senior Vice President for Community Impact at Comcast 
Corporation and President of the Comcast NBCUniversal 
Foundation. “We aspire to connect our best resource — our 
passionate employees — to causes and organizations they 
care about as individuals.” 
NBCUniversal employees have demonstrated their passion 
for making a difference in our local communities through 
Comcast NBCUnites, a new volunteering and social 
impact program that launched in early 2019. According 
to Hilary Smith, Executive Vice President of Corporate 
Communications and Social Impact at NBCUniversal,  
“Our primary goal is to help employees give back through 
projects focused on building stronger communities, 
empowering the next generation of storytellers, and 
promoting media and technology skills. In just one year, 
more than 14,000 employees impacted 225 nonprofit 
organizations through a wide variety of projects, ranging 
from mentoring to food packing to hosting a Creative 
Summit for aspiring young filmmakers.” 
Through the Creative Summit, held in partnership with 
Ghetto Film School, more than 125 NBCUniversal employees 
were paired with young people in New York and Los 
Angeles for one-on-one mentoring and workshops in news, 
production, and late-night TV writing.
Just as our talented film and television teams share their 
skills with aspiring filmmakers, Comcast’s technologists and 
engineers are also helping the next generation explore tech 
careers. In 2019, we continued our partnership with CS4Philly, 
a coalition advocating for teaching computer science in 
Philadelphia schools, by mentoring high school students 
in a hands-on tech exploration day through coding, data 
analytics, and other activities. 
For her part, Simmons encourages others at the company 
— especially her younger colleagues — to give back through 
board service as a way to further develop their own 
leadership skills. But most of all, Simmons says, “I love 
seeing the impact I’m making on young people and their 
families. It just makes me want to do even more.”Students participate in a coding workshop sponsored by 
Comcast NBCUniversal and CS4Philly.
Comcast NBCUniversal 15
Building
Careers Through 
Mentoring 
Always on the lookout for learning opportunities, Carla 
Stanley jumped at the chance to participate in Comcast’s 
2019 Employee Resource Group (ERG) Mentorship Program. 
A first-time mentee, she was paired with Kristy Mullen — a 
former mentee who had stepped into the mentor role. 
The match couldn’t have been more perfect. Stanley is a 
Customer Account Executive who works with Comcast’s 
small and medium-sized business customers. Mullen, Senior 
Manager of Customer Service Strategy and Operations 
for Xfinity Mobile Care, is passionate about supporting 
employees who are on the front lines of customer care.
Both women have found camaraderie and career support 
through our ERGs — employee-led organizations across 
all business units that help us build a more inclusive and 
collaborative workplace.   
“Mentorship is important to our company and our efforts 
to retain top talent, engage our employees, and promote 
diversity and inclusion,” says Karen Dougherty Buchholz, 
Comcast’s new Chief Diversity Officer  and Senior Vice 
President of Administration. “Having people who are 
invested in helping others to reach their career and personal 
goals is vital to our culture and to creating opportunities for 
professional success throughout our employee base.” 
During the nine-month mentorship program, Stanley and 
Mullen met at least once a month, either in person or over 
the phone, and often traveled to each other’s workplaces to 
gain new perspectives on the company. They participated 
in events facilitated by ERG Mentorship Program leaders 
and had informal conversations and email exchanges to discuss career development opportunities and challenges. 
Stanley, for example, hopes to leverage her experience in the 
program to explore future job possibilities at the company.
“The mentorship program exceeded my expectations,” says 
Stanley, a member of the Black Employee Network, the 
Women’s Network, and the MyAbilities Network ERGs. “I 
was willing to stretch myself and push myself into new 
situations, and I learned so much. It opened my eyes to all 
the opportunities that exist at Comcast.”
Each year, the program builds toward an optional capstone 
project that challenges mentees with researching and 
developing strategic business plans, which they present  
to an executive panel of judges. As part of the 2019 winning 
team, Stanley learned what it takes to bring a new idea  
to market and how to create and present a successful 
business case. 
The ERG Mentorship Program helps to engage employees, 
retain talent, prepare future leaders, and strengthen 
diversity, inclusion, and equity within our company. Both 
Mullen and Stanley say they would participate again and 
have encouraged their peers and colleagues to apply. 
“People usually talk about mentoring in terms of what the 
mentee gains from the mentor,” says Mullen. “But I also 
gained a lot as a mentor. It made me a better listener, a 
better coach, and a better communicator and leader. 
Getting to know Carla and helping shape her goals and 
vision for her future has been a fantastic experience.”
16  2020 Values Report
Employee  
Resource Groups
8
ERGs197 
chapters
35K+
membersThe ERG Mentorship 
Program since 2012
8
years of mentoring
400 
mentor/mentee pairs
~65% 
of mentees have  
been promoted Mentorship is important 
to our company and 
our efforts to retain 
top talent, engage our 
employees, and promote 
diversity and inclusion.
KAREN DOUGHERTY BUCHHOLZ
Chief Diversity Officer and Senior Vice President of 
Administration at Comcast
Participants in the 2019 ERG Mentorship Program’s capstone event.
Comcast NBCUniversal 17
Diversity DataAt Comcast NBCUniversal, we believe that a diverse 
and inclusive company is a more innovative and 
successful company, which is why we aim to infuse 
diversity and inclusion into all aspects of our business.
1. Workforce metrics are reflective of our U.S. full-time employees.
2. Ethnic diversity numbers may not sum to total due to rounding.
3. Our Executive Leadership Team includes the CEOs and their first- and second-level direct reports.OVERALL WORKFORCE YEAR-END (YE) 20191Workforce Diversity
Diversity and inclusion is essential to our business.  
Our aspirational goal is to have 50% women and 33%  
people of color at every level of our workforce.  African American    Asian American   
  Hispanic    2+ Races    Native AmericanWomen People of Color
People of Color2Women
Executive
Leadership
Team(ELT)3
Vice
Presidents
& Above7% 7% 4%
5% 7% 8%
6% 11% 7%2%<1%1%
<1% DirectorsAfrican-American         Asian-American        Hispanic        2+ Races       Native American
Total
New Hires19% 7% 15% <1%
<1% 25% 9% 15%
35% 
41% 
44%
54%
40% 
41% 20%
27%
22%40% +94%
+110%
+147%+52%
+78%
+84%increase in number 
of women in ELT since 
YE 2011+18% +30%
increase in number of 
women in the overall 
workforce since YE 2010increase in number of 
people of color in the 
overall workforce since 
YE 2010
increase in number of 
people of color in ELT 
since YE 2011
increase in number of 
VP+ women since YE 2010increase in number of 
VP+ people of color 
since YE 2010
increase in number of 
people of color at the 
director level since YE 2010increase in number of 
women at the director 
level since YE 20102%2%6%3%
Executive
Leadership
Team(ELT)3
Vice
Presidents
& Above7% 7% 4%
5% 7% 8%
6% 11% 7%2%<1%1%
<1% DirectorsAfrican-American         Asian-American        Hispanic        2+ Races       Native American
Total
New Hires19% 7% 15% <1%
<1% 25% 9% 15%
35% 
41% 
44%
54%
40% 
41% 20%
27%
22%40% +94%
+110%
+147%+52%
+78%
+84%increase in number 
of women in ELT since 
YE 2011+18% +30%
increase in number of 
women in the overall 
workforce since YE 2010increase in number of 
people of color in the 
overall workforce since 
YE 2010
increase in number of 
people of color in ELT 
since YE 2011
increase in number of 
VP+ women since YE 2010increase in number of 
VP+ people of color 
since YE 2010
increase in number of 
people of color at the 
director level since YE 2010increase in number of 
women at the director 
level since YE 20102%2%6%3%
LEADERSHIP YE 2019
18  Programming
To ensure we’re telling authentic stories that resonate with a wide range of audiences, we strive to have diverse perspectives in 
every aspect of our programming at NBCUniversal and in the content we distribute on our Xfinity platforms. 
On Air Women People of Color
Film
NBC Primetime
Scripted Series
News Assets8
Film
NBC Primetime
Scripted Series
News Assets8Behind 
the CameraEntertainment & 
Lifestyle Group7
Entertainment & 
Lifestyle Group7
+46%
-8%
+5%
+6%% CHANGE
39%
42%
51%43%+155%
+15%
+8%
+40%
37%
34%
49%39%% CHANGE
+216%
+67%
+48%
+11%
35%30%
42%
58%+406%
+79%
+61%
+34%
 27%25%25%23%On Air Women People of Color
Film
NBC Primetime
Scripted Series
News Assets8
Film
NBC Primetime
Scripted Series
News Assets8Behind 
the CameraEntertainment & 
Lifestyle Group7
Entertainment & 
Lifestyle Group7
+46%
-8%
+5%
+6%% CHANGE
39%
42%
51%43%+155%
+15%
+8%
+40%
37%
34%
49%39%% CHANGE
+216%
+67%
+48%
+11%
35%30%
42%
58%+406%
+79%
+61%
+34%
 27%25%25%23%NBCUNIVERSAL DIVERSITY YE 20196XFINITY: TOTAL DIVERSE HOURS
TOTAL DIVERSE SUBSCRIBER   
NETWORK INSTANCES9
20192010
11K
13K375
566
20192010
357M 203M 20192010
13K566
20192010
357M 203M 
20192010
11K375On Demand Online
Real unmanipulated
20192010
11K
13K375
566
20192010
357M 203M 20192010
13K566
20192010
357M 203M 
20192010
11K375On Demand Online
Real unmanipulatedGovernance
Our commitment to diversity starts at the top, with our 
Board of Directors. The diversity of our Board has nearly 
tripled since YE 2010.BOARD DIVERSITY4
40%15%
+160%YE 2010
YE 2019+160%5 
increase in 
percentage of women 
and people of color  
on the Board since  
YE 2010
20192010
$20.1M$5.8M20192010
$3.8M$0.9MCommunity Impact
As a company uniquely positioned to educate, entertain,  
and empower, we are committed to bringing together diverse 
communities and inspiring our customers, audiences, and 
employees to make a positive social impact. Since year-  
end 2010, we’ve invested more than $2.1 billion in cash and  
in-kind giving benefiting minorities.
CASH GIVINGCASH & IN-KIND DONATIONS  
To women-led and women-serving organizations To minority-led and minority-serving organizations
20192010
$20.1M$5.8M20192010
$3.8M$0.9MNearly
$1.9B  
invested in 
communities from 
2016 to 2019$650M  
invested in 
initiatives to close 
the digital 
divide
4. “Diversity” data refer to people of color and women, without double-counting women of color.
5. Throughout this document, changes in percentage representation refer to the growth rate of percentage representation between a starting point and an ending point. For 
example, an increase from 10% to 15% is a growth rate of +50%.
6. Increases and decreases next to each graph represent the growth rate of percentage representation. For women the numbers reflect the growth rate since YE 2013; for 
people of color they reflect the growth rate since YE 2010.
7. Entertainment & Lifestyle Group includes USA and Syfy.
8. News assets includes NBC News, MSNBC, CNBC, and NBC-owned stations, but does not include Telemundo Network News or Telemundo stations.
9. Subscriber Network Instances are defined as the number of networks that subscribers have as part of their programming packages. For example, if a subscriber has a 
Hispanic programming tier with 40 channels, that would count as 40 Subscriber Network Instances. 19Diversity is all about being 
intentional. Every supplier 
base can be diversified. You 
just need to find the right 
people with the right skills. 
NINA VACA  
CEO, Pinnacle GroupNina Vaca, CEO of Pinnacle Group, 
chats with an employee. 
20  2020 Values ReportBuilding
a Diverse 
Supply Chain
Nina Vaca launched Pinnacle Group almost 25 years ago in 
her living room, with a phone, a computer, and $300. Since 
then, it has grown from a one-woman IT staffing firm to a 
global workforce solutions company with a presence in 10 
countries on four continents. 
For more than six years, Comcast has turned to Pinnacle 
to strengthen our contingent labor and workforce 
solutions. The partnership has been instrumental in helping 
Pinnacle become the company it is today. “Our service to 
Comcast has enabled us to develop the scale, security, and 
sophistication required to serve the world’s largest and most 
innovative corporations,” says Vaca. 
As a woman- and minority-owned business with a workforce 
composed of over 63% women and more than 40% people 
of color, Pinnacle is an invaluable Tier I diverse supplier, 
which means it has a direct business relationship with 
Comcast. And as Pinnacle, in turn, identifies diverse firms 
to staff positions at Comcast, it is opening doors for highly 
skilled Tier II suppliers to grow their businesses as well. Tier II 
suppliers work for our Tier I suppliers on Comcast projects. 
“Pinnacle’s emphasis on diversity is one of the many things 
that impressed us from the start of our relationship,” says 
Jason Beattie, Executive Director of Procurement at Comcast 
NBCUniversal. “Through Nina’s leadership, Pinnacle 
supports a wide range of suppliers from traditionally underrepresented groups, which enables Comcast to further 
build wealth in the communities in which we operate.” 
Comcast NBCUniversal’s supplier diversity program aims to 
promote, increase, and improve the participation of diverse 
businesses within our corporate supply chain — including 
companies owned by women, people of color, veterans, 
individuals with disabilities, and lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) individuals. This diversity 
in our supply chain gives us a competitive edge — inspiring 
innovation and providing insights into the interests and 
needs of our customers while also supporting a highly skilled, 
dynamic workforce.
Our relationship with Pinnacle was born of a desire to 
build on the strong foundation of established diversity in 
our supply chain. Since we signed our first contract with 
Pinnacle in 2013, we have increased our spending with 
diverse suppliers even further. During 2019 alone, we spent 
more than $4.3 billion with diverse Tier I and Tier II suppliers. 
Our partnership with Pinnacle is one of the factors enabling 
our continued progress in this area.
As trusted partners, Vaca and Pinnacle have been 
instrumental in helping Comcast build a more diverse supply 
chain and a stronger company. Through our partnership, 
we have discovered ways to align our shared objectives 
and goals, and, as a result, we have played a role in 
exponentially growing Pinnacle’s footprint.
“Diversity is all about being intentional,” says Vaca, who 
was born in Ecuador and was named for three consecutive 
years to the Association of Latino Professionals for America’s 
annual list of the 50 Most Powerful Latinas. “Every supplier 
base can be diversified. You just need to find the right 
people with the right skills. Pinnacle excels in this type of 
supplier diversification and seeks out like-minded clients, 
such as Comcast.”Comcast NBCUniversal Supplier  
Diversity at a Glance
$22.7 B
spent with diverse Tier I 
suppliers since 2011$2.9 B 
spent with diverse Tier II 
suppliers since 2012 
3K+ 
diverse suppliersComcast NBCUniversal is a 
member of the Billion Dollar 
Roundtable , which recognizes 
companies that have spent at least 
$1 billion with suppliers owned by 
women, people of color, veterans, 
individuals with disabilities, and 
LGBTQ community members.
Comcast NBCUniversal 21
Building
a Destination  
 for Black Film 
and TV 
At Comcast, we continually work to expand the diversity 
of our Xfinity programming and make that diverse content 
readily accessible to our customers. One way we do this is 
by curating content with specific audiences in mind. For 
example, Xfinity TV’s Black Film & TV collection is an original 
compilation of the best black film, TV, and web content 
from our vast catalog of available programming in one easy-
to-browse, unified experience. 
“Representation is so important,” says Keesha Boyd, 
Executive Director of Multicultural Products at Comcast. 
“We want our customers to see themselves, and their 
communities, represented on the biggest screen in their 
homes. Our curated collections help to raise awareness of 
the vast amount of programming content we offer that does 
just that.”Unique to the Black Film & TV collection is the HBCU 
Experience, which highlights historically black colleges and 
universities (HBCUs). It includes sporting events, movies, TV 
shows, and music playlists, plus original content such as the 
I Am HBCU Proud series featuring video testimonials from 
alumni, many of whom are Comcast employees. 
Also in the collection, and new for 2020, is kweliTV, a 
subscription streaming service. Founded by a young, black, 
female entrepreneur, kweliTV offers a wide selection of black 
films, documentaries, and news.   
Each year during Black History Month, we expand our 
black film and TV offerings and elevate the visibility of 
the programming to encourage our customers to engage 
with the content. In 2020, for the second year running, 
we offered a Free Preview Week on X1 during February — 
giving customers access to popular TV shows, movies, and 
documentaries from premium networks and subscription 
video-on-demand services, including African-American-
owned content. 
“Through our Black Film & TV platform, we showcase 
content that celebrates the diversity within the global black 
community,” Boyd says. “It gives us a way to amplify the 
voices of these content creators and allows us to lean into 
the cultural stories and moments that our customers are 
passionate about.”
100+ 
diverse networks on Xfinity platformsXfinity’s Diverse Content
Xfinity has created an unprecedented 
ecosystem of diverse content, including 
permanent, curated On Demand 
destinations geared toward African 
American, Asian American, Hispanic, 
and LGBTQ audiences. These platforms 
bring together a wealth of culturally 
relevant entertainment choices in easy-
to-navigate locations.
24 K+ 
hours of diverse On Demand and Online 
programming combined offered in 2019Xfinity TV’s Black Film & TV collection is an original compilation of the best black 
film, TV, and web content from our vast catalog of available programming.
22  2020 Values Report
Building
Diversity in 
Front of and 
Behind the 
Camera 
At Comcast NBCUniversal, we take pride in creating 
opportunities in the media industry for women and people 
of diverse backgrounds and experiences — both in front of 
and behind the camera. 
“Two decades ago, we began launching initiatives to identify 
and cultivate diverse talent for the media industry,” says 
Craig Robinson, Executive Vice President and Chief Diversity 
Officer of NBCUniversal. “Today, we offer the industry’s 
widest range of programs designed to build a diverse 
pipeline of talent, including directors, writers, actors, music 
composers, and journalists.” 
A leading example of these programs is Female Forward, an 
initiative designed to give female directors an entry into 
scripted television. Our industry can do more to have women 
represented in the director’s chair, and Female Forward was created in response to that need. We believe that, 
collectively, we can achieve greater gender parity among 
directors of scripted series by systematically increasing the 
number of experienced women in the field. 
Female Forward directors are given the opportunity to 
shadow current directors on up to two episodes of an  
NBC series, with a commitment to helm at least one 
episode of that series in the same season that they shadow. 
The program is spearheaded by Lisa Katz and Tracey 
Pakosta, NBC Entertainment’s Co-Presidents of Scripted 
Programming.
“The Female Forward program doesn’t just give talented 
female directors new opportunities,” says Katz. “It sets 
talented female directors up for success, giving them a 
chance to change their career trajectories.”
The inaugural 2018 Female Forward program was so 
successful that eight of the 10 participants were invited back 
to direct even more episodes.
Kim Nguyen and SJ Main Muñoz, from the program’s second 
class, directed episodes of Brooklyn Nine-Nine and Chicago 
Med, respectively, and were excited to see their programs air 
in the 2019–20 season.
“NBC’s Female Forward is crucial in creating opportunities 
for emerging female directors like me to begin their 
professional careers in television,” says Main Muñoz, an 
award-winning director, writer, and producer who is 
especially passionate about increasing Latino representation 
in film and on TV. 
Our Alternative Directors Program is the television industry’s 
first pipeline program for directors of unscripted TV shows. 
Launched in 2018, the initiative gives experienced female 
and ethnically diverse directors the opportunity to expand 
their repertoire of alternative formats (i.e., unscripted and 
late-night shows) and complex directing styles, with the 
ultimate goal of hiring them as show directors on an NBC or 
Universal Television unscripted program. Two directors from 
the inaugural class were hired for their first directing roles 
on NBC alternative shows.Female Forward director Kim Nguyen helms an episode  
of NBC’s Brooklyn Nine-Nine.
Comcast NBCUniversal 23
Cynthia Garcia, a Telemundo assignment manager, 
created a legacy for her late son Adam with the help 
and support of Comcast NBCUniversal.“homes away from home” that provides free lodging and 
support for military families when a loved one is hospitalized. 
As his parents sat by his hospital bed, making agonizing 
decisions with doctors, Adam’s 12-year-old sister, Danielle, 
stayed behind at the Fisher House with a babysitter. But her 
mom still recalls the young girl’s boredom: “There’s nothing 
for kids to do here,” Danielle told her.
More than a decade later, Cynthia put in motion a solution. 
As a member of Comcast NBCUniversal’s local Veterans 
Network (VetNet) Employee Resource Group (ERG), she 
was searching for a new project to support. Cynthia had 
an idea that had been percolating for some time: create a 
child-friendly space at the Dallas Fisher House. Together, the 
VetNet team set up a cozy nook, complete with beanbags, 
a small table, a library of donated books and DVDs — and 
a photo of Adam, in uniform, on the wall. The space was 
named “Adam’s Corner.”
While attending our annual Military Influencer & Leader 
Development Symposium, Cynthia shared the story of her 
tragic loss — and the inspiration for Adam’s Corner — with 
executives and VetNet champions at Comcast headquarters. 
With support from the company, other regional VetNet 
chapters took up the cause. Today, Adam’s legacy lives 
on in nine Fisher Houses across the country, with more 
installations planned. 
“We are humbled that Cynthia and her family chose to 
channel their grief into comforting spaces for children 
who are going through traumatic events,” says Ken 
Fisher, Chairman and CEO of the Fisher House Foundation. 
“Comcast NBCUniversal enthusiastically rallied behind 
Adam’s Corners, and we are grateful for their assistance in 
helping us scale this program to serve more families.”
Our company has had a longstanding commitment to the 
military community, which includes current and former 
service men and women and their families. We are hiring 
21,000 members by the end of 2021, supporting military 
community organizations, expanding broadband adoption 
for low-income veterans, and delivering special product 
offers for military customers. 
Cynthia often visits the Dallas Fisher House to see if the very 
first Adam’s Corner needs more supplies. 
“I promised Adam he would not be forgotten — and because 
of the help of a lot of people, his name is living on,” she 
says. “I’m so grateful for the company I work for and for 
having such a wonderful ERG group that invests in military 
community employees.”Building 
Supportive 
Communities  
 for Veterans 
and Their 
Families 
Cpl. Adam Garcia was just 20 years old and serving in Iraq 
when he was fatally wounded. He had once told his parents 
that he didn’t fear war; he feared not being remembered.
“I promised him that wouldn’t happen,” says his mom, 
Cynthia Garcia, a Telemundo assignment manager in 
Dallas-Fort Worth.
In the hours after Adam’s 2006 injury, his family flew to a 
military medical center in Landstuhl, Germany, where they 
were given a suite at the local Fisher House, a network of 
24  2020 Values Report
40+ 
military community  
support organizations  
and events sponsored13.8 K 
employees who 
participated in 
veteran-related 
service projects50+ 
public speaking 
engagements 
on veteran 
issues, including 
military hiring $9.5 M 
allocated in public 
service announcements 
for military community 
support organizations9.5 K 
members of 
the Veterans 
NetworkComcast NBCUniversal 
recognizes that military 
service impacts more than 
those who wear a uniform. 
Parents, siblings, even 
friends, sacrifice alongside 
our military. Service to our 
communities matters, and 
it’s been amazing to see 
how our employees rallied 
behind their colleague to 
support Fisher Houses in 
their local regions.
U.S. ARMY BRIGADIER GENERAL  
(RETIRED) CAROL EGGERT
Senior Vice President for Military and Veteran Affairs, 
Comcast NBCUniversal
2019 Military Support
Comcast NBCUniversal 25
A team of Sky employees participates in an outdoor 
beautification project in Germany.
26  2020 Values ReportBuilding
a Better World
Sky believes in building better lives, better communities, and 
a better world. 2019 marked Sky’s first full year as part of the 
Comcast NBCUniversal family. 
With storytelling and technology, Sky builds better lives by 
connecting customers to world-class news and arts, telling 
stories that need to be heard. Like Comcast NBCUniversal, 
Sky also strives to make its products and services accessible 
and provides tools to protect children when they’re online 
and to help families make decisions about what to watch. 
Sky builds better communities by creating opportunities for 
young people and has set a goal of broadening horizons for 
250,000 youth by 2025 by having them participate in Sky 
programs. Each year, for example, Sky gives over 30,000 
schoolchildren in the U.K. and Italy inspiring opportunities 
through Sky Academy, provides exposure to media careers, 
and offers training opportunities to help young people from 
underrepresented backgrounds break into the industry. It’s crucial that we give back to our communities. In the first 
year of Sky Cares, which launched in 2019, our employees 
volunteered 15,000 hours toward helping the homeless, 
alleviating loneliness, supporting young people, and caring 
for the environment.
Better lives 
120 million people with free 
and easy access to robust and 
independent journalismSky builds a better world through its commitment to 
environmental sustainability. 
“We’ve always gone above and beyond to do our part for the 
planet. But now we’re going even further with our new goal 
to be net zero carbon by 2030,” says Jeremy Darroch, Group 
Chief Executive Officer of Sky. “Our climate’s in jeopardy, 
and we know that the next years will be critical in the fight 
against climate change. It has to be now.”
In 2006, Sky was the first media company to go carbon 
neutral for its own operations, cutting emissions and 
offsetting the rest. Sky’s new 2030 target will make it a net 
zero carbon company across its full value chain — a full 20 
years ahead of the legislated target date for all of the U.K. 
To achieve this, Sky plans to cut the emissions created across 
its supply chain, operations, and products by at least 50%, 
and will plant trees, mangroves, and seagrass to absorb and 
offset the emissions that remain.
In line with this commitment, Sky is making all of its 
technology products more energy efficient, developing 
sustainable film and TV studios, and creating a zero-
emission fleet of vehicles. All of Sky’s original productions, 
shows, and films will be net zero carbon as well. Sky also 
plans to use its voice and platform to advocate for change 
and to explain the issue of climate change and why it’s so 
important to change behavior.  
And because the ocean plays a critical role in carbon 
absorption, the Sky Ocean Rescue initiative will continue to 
raise awareness and drive progress toward restoring ocean 
health through the reduction of single-use plastics. 
Learn more about all of Sky’s efforts on its website and in its 
Bigger Picture Impact Report 2019. 
Comcast NBCUniversal acquired 
Sky, Europe’s leading media and 
entertainment company, in 2018.
SKY’S BIGGER PICTURE GOALS
Better 
communities 
250,000 young people from  
all backgrounds with broader 
horizons by 2025
Better world  
Net zero carbon by 2030, reducing 
emissions by at least 50%
Comcast NBCUniversal 27
the annual energy needs of the stages and their connected 
office buildings, reducing carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions 
by approximately 652 metric tons each year. Our new Sky 
studios complex in Elstree, U.K., expected to open in 2022, 
will also include solar panels to help power its sound stages 
with renewable energy.
In addition, Comcast completed a 760-panel rooftop solar 
installation at our multipurpose facility in Washington D.C. 
The system will reduce approximately 272 metric tons of CO 2 
in the regional electricity grid — equivalent of 37 homes’ 
worth of electricity. Comcast also completed a 100 kilowatt 
ground-mounted, on-site solar system at our headend10 
critical facility site in Chico, Calif. 
Due to space constraints, building design, or heavy energy 
demands, large-scale on-site solar projects aren’t always 
the most effective or practical solution. So, we work together 
with third parties and utilities to pursue offsite renewable 
energy projects. For example, in 2019, we enrolled in 
Portland General Electric’s Green Future Impact program. 
Our participation is supporting the development of a new 
solar facility in Oregon that is scheduled to come online by 
the end of 2021. And the electricity generated by the solar 
facility will help to power our operations in the region with 
clean energy. 
Additionally, Comcast has started renewable energy 
supply agreements in California and Illinois. Beginning 
in 2021, Comcast will receive 100% renewable power for 
more than 50 large facilities in California. In Chicago, 
100% renewable energy is already serving a portion of our 
facilities and network.  We are also working hard to advance 
energy efficiency across our operations by reducing our 
overall energy use whenever possible. For instance, in the 
Baltimore/Washington D.C. area, we invested more than 
$1.2 million to convert approximately 30 sites to LED lighting.
A view of the nearly 1,400 solar panels on the roofs of four 
sound stages at the Universal Studios Lot in Los Angeles.Building  
More 
Sustainable 
Operations 
At Comcast NBCUniversal, we are committed to reducing 
emissions and operating a more sustainable business. One 
of our aspirational goals is to operate all of our businesses 
with 100% renewable energy. We take a holistic approach to 
meeting our renewable energy needs, with tailored solutions 
for everything from powering our network to lighting our 
production studios. 
“Different energy strategies are needed for our various 
locations,” says Susan Jin Davis, Chief Sustainability Officer 
for Comcast NBCUniversal. “We are choosing solutions 
based on what will make the biggest difference location 
by location, whether that’s on-site solar, green tariffs, 
renewable energy supply contracts, or a combination.”
Where possible, we use on-site solar power. For example, we 
have nearly 1,400 solar panels on the roofs of four sound 
stages at the Universal Studios Lot in Los Angeles. Universal 
Pictures’ Us was filmed on these stages, as well as the Saved 
by the Bell revival, which will air on our Peacock streaming 
service. The Universal solar project, coming online in 2020, is 
expected to generate enough power to provide about half By the end of 2020, we will have  
on-site solar installations powering 
a portion of the operations for each 
of our business units: Comcast Cable, 
Comcast Spectacor, NBCUniversal, 
and Sky.
10.  A headend is a broadband electronics station, where cable television signals are 
processed and distributed.
28  2020 Values Report
Thank You, David L. Cohen 
Our company values are a reflection of our culture and our employees. For nearly 20 
years, David L. Cohen has been a driving force behind our community impact and 
diversity and inclusion efforts in his leadership role for the company and especially 
as Chief Diversity Officer. In light of David’s recent transition, the entire Comcast 
NBCUniversal family would like to acknowledge the tireless energy, creativity, and 
passion he brings to our company, and, more importantly, to the communities and 
people we serve. We all look forward to building on David’s leadership and vision and 
to creating an even brighter future for us all.
Our state-of-the-art, 60-story Comcast Technology 
Center achieved double LEED Platinum certification (for 
new buildings) from the U.S. Green Building Council — the 
highest-level certification for an environmentally friendly 
workplace. In addition, the neighboring Comcast Center 
achieved LEED v4 Gold certification for Operations and 
Maintenance (for existing buildings) — the first building in 
Philadelphia to achieve this certification. Both buildings are 
energy efficient, collect and reuse rainwater, and employ 
renewable energy certificates and carbon offsets to reduce 
their carbon footprints.
comcastcorporation.com/valuesreport