Moments that matter
Executive Summary  
2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  
(covering 2016)
At Comcast NBCUniversal, we bring people closer to what matters. 
To the moments of purpose and passion that make our world a better place.From our place as one of the largest media, technology, and broadband 
companies in the world, we have the unique ability to help solve some of 
the most challenging social issues of our time.  Our impact starts with our 
philanthropy and volunteerism, and it grows with our efforts to connect the unconnected and our ability to amplify the voices of today’s change-makers in our communities and within our own walls.  That’s why we invest 
in digital inclusion, foster the brightest innovators and entrepreneurs, and 
spotlight young, diverse filmmakers.  It’s why we hold up the microphone  for community problem-solvers, and uphold and empower our own Comcast NBCUniversal family to make a lasting difference.  Our influence 
and reach make it possible to create a positive impact every day. About our commitment
$500+ million
In 2016, Comcast NBCUniversal provided more than $500 million in 
cash and in-kind contributions to local and national organizations 
that share our commitment to improving communities.“As a technology and broadband 
leader, it is our responsibility  
and obligation to do what  
we can to help close the  
digital divide.”
DAVID L. COHEN 
Senior Executive Vice President  and Chief Diversity Officer“Across all of our businesses 
and platforms, we have a unique 
opportunity to connect people  
to the moments that matter  
most to them.”
BRIAN L. ROBERTS 
Chairman and CEOBuilding connected 
communities
PAGE 4
Creating media  
that matters
PAGE 6
Inspiring  
innovation
PAGE 10
Empowering  
our people
PAGE 142016: Moments  
that matter
PAGE 8
Transforming the 
customer experience
PAGE 12LOOKING FORWARD: 
A message from Dalila Wilson-Scott
Our most valuable assets at Comcast 
NBCUniversal are our talent, technology, and reach, and I’m excited to lead the 
effort to help find more ways to leverage 
them to make our communities stronger.
With an incredible foundation to build 
on, we are reinforcing our commitment 
to service both on Comcast Cares Day 
and throughout the year, while increasing 
opportunities for employees to use their 
unique talents to address community needs.  From board 
service to pro bono legal support to mentoring our future leaders, our employees stand committed to lending their 
talents for good.
We believe technology is empowering and are focused  
on making it accessible to everyone, but we also recognize 
that access alone isn’t enough to close the opportunity 
divide.  In addition to securing basic digital skills, it’s also vital to help individuals gain the digital skills needed to compete 
for 21st-century jobs, to start and grow small businesses, and 
to fully participate in the innovation economy.
Our nonprofit partners are often challenged with accessing 
expertise and technology, along with telling their stories.  
One of the ways we address this issue is to use our unparalleled reach to help our communities and partners 
create and share their inspiring stories, educating more 
audiences on critical social issues and the game-changing 
solutions at work.
It’s an honor to be a part of the fabric of the places where  
we live and work, and we look forward to doing even more  to enhance our communities.
DALILA WILSON-SCOTT 
Senior Vice President of Community Investment
MOMENTS THAT MATTER: Executive Summary of our 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
4Commitment to communities is in our DNA.  After all, our customers and 
audiences are also our neighbors, and we call the same neighborhoods home.   We strive to make a positive impact everywhere we exist.  We’re bridging the digital divide by making technology more accessible to more Americans.  We’re finding new ways to tap into the skills and talents of our employees to mentor young leaders and to aid those who have served our country.  And we’re harnessing our strength in numbers to improve the world around us through efforts like Comcast Cares Day — the nation’s largest single-day corporate volunteer event, which exemplifies and amplifies our year-round commitment to giving back to the communities where our employees live and work.  We’re unwavering in our commitment to connect our communities with the resources that matter most to their success — and helping them build solid foundations for stronger futures.
  
“It doesn’t take a fictional superhero to make great things happen — 
it’s about the power in all of us.”
CESAR CONDE | Chairman of NBCUniversal International Group and NBCUniversal Telemundo Enterprise  
Comcast Cares Day
2016 marked the 15th 
anniversary of Comcast  
Cares Day.  More than 
100,000 volunteers now 
participate in the annual 
celebration of commitment  
to year-round service, 
as well as many national 
organizations such as The 
Arc, Big Brothers Big Sisters 
of America, Boys & Girls 
Clubs of America, City Year, 
Easterseals, National Council 
of La Raza, and the National 
Urban League.Wills for Heroes  
Foundation
Last year we formalized  
a pro bono program across  
Comcast to support  
and encourage our attorneys 
to provide pro bono legal 
services using company 
resources.  One example 
of this commitment is our  
partnership with the Wills 
for Heroes Foundation, 
in which our lawyers and 
legal staff volunteer to help 
create estate plans for first 
responders, veterans, and 
their families.#WhitGoesToRio
Comcast NBCUniversal 
has supported Boys & Girls 
Clubs of America (BGCA) 
for more than 15 years.  In 
2016, we proudly built on 
that commitment by inviting 
Whitney Stewart, BGCA’s 
2015–16 National Youth of the 
Year and one of more than 
4 million Club kids, to learn 
the ins and outs of sports 
broadcasting at the 2016 Rio 
Olympics.  Followers around 
the world kept up with her 
journey via Snapchat and 
Twitter through the hashtag 
#WhitGoesToRio.Building connected  
communitiesBuilding connected  
communitiesCOMMUNITY SPOTLIGHT:
Expanding Internet  
Essentials to HUD 
Comcast’s Internet Essentials 
is the largest, most successful 
broadband adoption program 
in the country.  Since 2011, 
it has delivered reliable, 
affordable high-speed internet 
to more than 3 million low-
income individuals.  In 2016, 
we expanded even further. 
Partnering with the U.S. 
Department of Housing 
and Urban Development’s 
ConnectHome initiative  
allows us to serve hundreds  
of thousands of families 
receiving federal assistance. 
650,000
Volunteer hours  
donated during Comcast 
Cares Day 2016
3 million
Low-income 
Americans  — 750,000 
families — connected 
to low-cost, high-
speed broadband 
service through 
Internet Essentials
1.1 million
Acts of kindess 
inspired by our 
#ShareKindness 
campaign in 2016Measurable  
impact
MOMENTS THAT MATTER: Executive Summary of our 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
6“I think it’s really great that NBCUniversal is going out to seek diversity,  
and that it’s brought up to a visible platform.”
JUDI SHEKONI | Actor and 2016 NBCUniversal Short Film Festival PresenterActions spark change, and stories have the power to spark action.  Whether it’s 
raising funds for children in need or encouraging adoption of pets from shelters, we use our far-reaching storytelling platform to educate, entertain, and expand the way our viewers see the world.  And whether it’s community crises turned national news or celebrations of diversity and acceptance on-screen, we believe in the power of media to touch audiences and create tangible impact.  We’re committed to using that power to bring to the forefront the moments and issues that matter most to our audiences.  Because when people are informed and represented, they’re empowered to have important conversations and to create positive change in their communities, nations, and lives.
Hidden Heroes
In late September 2016,  
the Hidden Heroes campaign 
launched on the TODAY 
Show.  The campaign, 
a partnership between 
NBCUniversal and the 
Elizabeth Dole Foundation, 
brings the emotional stories 
of military caregivers into 
the light and celebrates 
these unsung Hidden Heroes. 
More than 200 groups and 
organizations have lent their 
support under the Hidden 
Heroes umbrella.AFI DOCS Impact Lab
Together with the American 
Film Institute, we’re helping 
documentary filmmakers gain 
new skills and resources to 
maximize the social impact of 
their projects.  The AFI DOCS 
Impact Lab is a two-day 
series of workshops on digital 
media, social marketing, 
community organizing, and 
media relations and awards. 
In 2016, Salam Neighbor 
directors Zach Ingrasci and 
Chris Temple used insights 
gained at the Impact Lab to  
raise more than $200,000 in 
donations for refugee aid.Diversity in media
As a leader in diversity and 
inclusion, we are committed 
to fostering a culture that 
values, champions, and 
celebrates diverse talent, 
voices, and perspectives in 
media and entertainment. 
In 2016, Universal Pictures 
formed the Global Talent 
Development and Inclusion 
department to advance the 
studio’s efforts in attracting 
and developing a diverse 
talent pool in front of and 
behind the camera. Creating media that mattersCreating media that matters
MEDIA SPOTLIGHT:
The water crisis in Flint
In January 2016, The Rachel 
Maddow Show went to Flint, 
Michigan, to cast light on the 
water crisis and seek active 
solutions during a live town hall. 
The coverage of that event — 
and the show’s comprehensive 
coverage of the crisis — helped to 
mobilize political action and spur 
relief efforts over the past year. 
Rachel credits the news culture  
at NBCUniversal for giving her 
team the time and resources 
to look, and dig deeper, into 
important stories.  “I feel I have a very strong 
responsibility because of what happened in Flint to make sure 
we’re being as constructive as 
possible at all times, because you never know if the story that you’re telling is something that’s going to 
change the world.”
RACHEL MADDOW , 
Host, The Rachel Maddow Show on MSNBC
45,000+
Pets that found 
forever homes through 
the NBCUniversal 
Owned Television 
Stations’ second 
annual national pet 
adoption campaign, 
Clear the SheltersMeasurable  
impact
$31.5 million
Funds raised for 
impoverished children 
during the broadcast of 
the 2016 Red Nose Day 
television special
$300 million
Value of the  
broadcast airtime  
we donated for  
PSAs last yearMOMENTS THAT MATTER: Executive Summary of our 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
8CORPORATE  
SOCIAL  
RESPONSIBILITY 
“We couldn’t have 
gotten the story without the people in Flint telling it themselves.” 
—Rachel Maddow,  
Host of The Rachel Maddow ShowJANUARY 27
MSNBC’s Rachel 
Maddow hosts a live  
town hall in Flint, 
Michigan, as part 
of An American 
Disaster: The  
Crisis in Flint.JANUARY
Our interns conceive and lead a two-month volunteer project with nonprofit Erick’s Place, embracing the Comcast 
NBCUniversal value 
of giving back.
MARCH 23
The Tomorrow Tour, 
designed to support 
innovation and 
entrepreneurship  
in cities across the 
nation, wraps up in 
Atlanta, after stops 
including Denver, 
Miami, Chicago,  
and Detroit.MARCHMembers of Comcast’s legal team volunteer at a Wills for Heroes Foundation clinic in Philadelphia to provide police officers, 
firefighters, and 
veterans with estate plans at no cost.“The first responders 
we served through 
Wills for heroes 
protect our families 
and communities  
every day.  It was 
humbling to have the 
opportunity to thank 
them for their service 
by providing legal 
assistance that will 
protect their families.”
 —Louise Cummings, 
Counsel at Comcast CableAPRIL 30
More than 100,000  
volunteers roll up 
their sleeves to give 
back with 900+ 
service projects 
during the 15th 
annual Comcast 
Cares Day.“One of the cool 
things about Comcast Cares Day is all the volunteers who come back to us  year after year.”
—Mary Jean Adkins, 
Donor Engagement Director at Marklund Wasmond Center 
at Little Angels  
near Chicago
JUNE
Comcast NBCUniversal 
employees come 
together to grieve and gain strength from one another during two remembrance ceremonies held 
to honor the Pulse 
shooting victims, which included six members of our  
own team.“We are grateful 
Universal Orlando 
was one of the first 
to step up and help 
those in need.”
—Buddy Dyer,  
Mayor of Orlando2016: Moments that matterMOMENTS THAT MATTER: Executive Summary of our 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
9DECEMBER 7
NBC airs Hairspray Live!, 
whose message 
of tolerance and diversity inspires a new generation of viewers.JULY 15 
Hundreds of 
thousands of 
households 
receiving federal 
housing assistance 
become eligible to 
apply for Internet 
Essentials through a 
partnership with the 
U.S. Department of 
Housing and Urban 
Development.AUGUST 5Comcast NBCUniversal streams the 2016 
Rio Olympics to 
military families  at no cost.SEPTEMBER
Liberty Lake  
Center of Excellence,  
focused on 
accessibility support 
for customers,  
  opens for business  
in Spokane.
SEPTEMBER
Hidden Heroes Chair 
Tom Hanks and 
other celebrities 
promote the Hidden 
Heroes campaign 
supporting military 
caregivers on the  
TODAY Show.“ConnectHome 
has the potential to transform the lives of hundreds of thousands of kids across the nation by giving them the tools to reach their full potential.”
—Julian Castro, 
former HUD Secretary
AUGUST 1
The Millennial 
Trains Project, 
a partner 
organization 
we funded, sets 
out from the 
Pittsburgh station 
with dozens of 
young innovators 
and entrepreneurs 
on board.“Millennial Trains 
reminded me how passionate I am about empowering other people.  But more importantly, this trip helped  me realize I’m  not alone.”
—Fabian Elliott, Millennial 
Trains participant and Founder and CEO of Black Tech Mecca“I love that 
Comcast is forging ahead in a field that’s been severely neglected in most markets and is finding new approaches to improve the customer experience.”
—Joshua Patchen, 
Universal Customer Experience Representative, 
Accessibility,  
Comcast Cable
“Hairspray Live! 
sends a message 
about acceptance 
and inclusion 
 that is as true  
today as it was 50 
years ago.”
—Kenny Leon, 
Director of  
Hairspray Live! and  
The Wiz Live!At Comcast NBCUniversal, we bring the moments that matter to our customers and 
audiences every day.  With these moments, we inspire action and create change for  the better.  Here are some highlights from the past year. MOMENTS THAT MATTER: Executive Summary of our 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
10The future is written by the innovators.  And as a company brimming with them, 
we take pride in supporting the entrepreneurs, technologists, and change-makers of tomorrow.  Through grantmaking, strategic partnerships, and creating spaces for inspired entrepreneurs to collaborate, including the new Comcast Technology Center, we are helping to change the face of technology and business.   We believe in the next generation of leaders and entrepreneurs, and we’re dedicated to supporting their growth. 
Millennial Trains Project
Our support last year enabled 
nearly 50 young change-
makers to develop their 
projects, receive mentorship 
from Comcast NBCUniversal 
employees and other business 
leaders, and reconnect with 
their passion and purpose — 
all while journeying across the 
country by rail.  The Millennial 
Trains Project stopped in five 
major U.S. cities, offering  
the young entrepreneurs   a unique environment in 
which to test their ideas  
and brainstorm together. Tech Impact Awards
We partnered with 
NationSwell to focus 
attention on social 
entrepreneurs who are 
making their communities 
stronger through technology. 
Raj Karmani, founder of a 
Chicago-area startup working 
to eliminate food waste in 
local businesses, received the 
$10,000 Tech Impact Award 
from Comcast NBCUniversal. Bunker Labs
As a sponsor of Bunker Labs, a nonprofit that helps 
military veterans translate 
their skills and experience 
into successful startup 
ventures, we are deepening 
the entrepreneurial pool and 
creating economic growth 
opportunities in 12 major  
U.S. cities.  For entrepreneurs 
like Jean South, founder of 
veteran talent consulting firm 
Hire Served, Bunker Labs  
can mean the difference 
between roadblocks and  
a path to success. Inspiring innovation
“Technology and media are two of our most powerful tools  
for multiplying the positive impact of social entrepreneurs in areas  
that go way beyond what we as a company could do on our own.” 
JESSICA CLANCY | Vice President of Corporate Social Responsibility at NBCUniversal.Inspiring innovationINNOVATION SPOTLIGHT:
Multiplying the impact of tech entrepreneurs
We offer a singular variety of resources to help social 
entrepreneurs drive positive change.  Along with awarding 
funding to technology-oriented nonprofits and social 
entrepreneurs in 2016, we used our unique media channels, 
strategic partnerships, and broadband technology 
expertise to multiply the impact of social innovation 
projects around the country.  Working closely with digital 
multimedia partners such as NationSwell and Technical.ly, 
we’re able to help tell the stories of technology nonprofits 
that are making a difference. 
195
Number of new 
patents granted to 
Comcast in 2016, our 
sixth consecutive year-
over-year increase
14
U.S. cities where  
Comcast NBCUniversal 
supports military veterans 
who are business owners 
through the Bunker  
Labs nonprofit
60 stories
Height of the new 
Comcast Technology 
Center, to open in 2018 
as a dedicated home 
for our workforce of 
tech innovatorsMeasurable  
impactMOMENTS THAT MATTER: Executive Summary of our 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
12Our relationships with our customers are key to our success.  That’s why Comcast 
is working to reinvent our customer experience in every way.  We’re making significant investments in new workforce tools and technology to help our cable technicians, customer service agents, and all our employees deliver better service.  We’re increasing sustainable practices — on film sets, in our service centers, in our vehicle fleet, in sports arenas, and more — to meet our customers’ expectations and help our industry drive positive change.  And we’re making incredible strides in accessible technology and service that allow all our customers a more seamless connection to content — no matter their abilities, language, or location.
Streaming the  
2016 Olympics
We proudly support  
both the U.S. Olympic  
and military communities. 
That’s why, for the first 
time ever, NBC invited 
U.S. service members 
worldwide to stream all 
4,500 hours of our 2016 
Rio Olympic coverage  
at no cost.  The service reflects our support for 
active-duty and retired  
U.S. service members across our business — 
including our commitment 
to hiring 10,000 veterans 
and reservists from 2015  
to 2017.Sustainability
With consumers’ attention  
to environmental impact on the rise, sustainable 
innovation is an essential  
way for us to serve our customers.  In 2016, we 
sharpened our focus in  
three areas: lowering the amount of energy used by  
our facilities and products such as our set-top boxes, 
reducing greenhouse  
gas emissions from our vehicle fleet, and minimizing 
the waste we send to 
landfills with our National 
Recycling Program.“Our customers trust us to solve problems that nobody else could,  
and we do everything we can to earn that trust.”
ALAN PRICE | Senior Director of Customer Care, Comcast’s Liberty Lake Center of Excellence
X1 accessibility 
From its inception, XFINITY 
X1 has been opening doors 
for blind and visually disabled 
customers.  In summer 2016, 
we saw yet another example 
of this as the accessibility 
features of X1 made it 
possible for the Smedley 
family, whose two teen  
boys are blind, to share the 
joy of television together for 
the first time.  Championing 
accessibility in product 
design is one step toward 
normalizing all abilities —  
and leveling the playing field 
for future generations. Transforming the  
customer experienceTransforming the  
customer experience
CUSTOMER SPOTLIGHT:
Transforming the  
customer experience
In 2016, Comcast launched five  
new customer service centers  
across the country, each tailored to  
address specific customer concerns.  
One of our newest facilities, the 
Liberty Lake Center of Excellence in 
Spokane opened in mid-September 
2016 and is dedicated exclusively to 
accessiblity support.  There, team 
members work with a variety of 
accessibility tools — including text 
telephones and screen readers —  
to communicate more efficiently  
with customers with disabilities.“It’s remarkably fulfilling 
to work with our most unique customers.  
What we’re doing may 
seem small to us, but it has a tremendous impact on our 
customers’ lives.”
JONATHAN BEAVERS,  
Account Executive,  Comcast Accessibility Support Team
6,000
Number of peer-led 
customer service 
training sessions  
held by Comcast  
since fall 2015 
450
Average calls per 
day processed by the 
Accessibility Support 
Team at the Liberty Lake 
Center of Excellence
8.7 million
Number of X1 
devices installed in 
customers’ homes in 
2016, each enabling 
video description, 
voice remote access, 
and other built-in 
accessibility featuresMeasurable  
impactMOMENTS THAT MATTER: Executive Summary of our 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report
14Our people are the heart of our company.  Our power and potential lie in how  
we come together and in the ways and moments in which we trust, inspire, and push each other.  It’s why we invest deeply in employees to create the change they want to see.  It’s also why we celebrate diversity and inclusion across  our business.  We’re a global company, with employees across the world.   But the culture and tight bonds we share help us feel like a small business.   In the moments that matter, our entire Comcast NBCUniversal family comes together — reaching across states, countries, and continents to unite and lend  a helping hand.
Supplier diversity
Every day across  
Comcast NBCUniversal,  
our thousands of suppliers 
with diverse ethnic, 
cultural, and experiential 
backgrounds contribute 
unique perspectives that help 
us better serve customers 
and viewers.  In 2016, we 
spent more than $3 billion 
with diverse suppliers and 
participated in more than 100 
national, regional, and local 
supplier diversity outreach 
events across our footprint.Intern volunteers
More than 2,800 college 
students spent between a 
few weeks and six months 
in our internship programs in 
2016.  They embraced the 
Comcast NBCUniversal value 
of community engagement 
by creating and executing 
large-scale group volunteer 
activities.  For example, a 
two-month, intern-led project 
with nonprofit Erick’s Place 
saw 84 interns coordinating 
the donation of more than 
300 sets of pajamas for 
chronically ill children.“When our people feel valued and rewarded,  
they perform better and our company gets stronger.”
SHAWN LEAVITT | Senior Vice President of Global Benefits at Comcast
Know Your Value
In 2015, we selected more than 250 employees to take 
part in Mika Brzezinski’s 
Know Your Value events for 
career advice and inspiration. 
We built on that momentum 
in 2016 when Comcast 
NBCUniversal’s Global 
Benefits and Diversity & 
Inclusion teams launched  
the Know Your Value 
professional development 
program.  The program  
kicked off with an event  
in New York City that drew 
more than 100 employees. Empowering our people#4
Our ranking  
on the GI Jobs® 2017 
Military Friendly® 
Employer list
PEOPLE SPOTLIGHT:
Responding to tragedy  
close to home
The horrific shootings at Pulse nightclub 
on June 12, 2016, shook us all.  We lost six 
members of the Comcast NBCUniversal 
family that night.  Our grief was the 
catalyst for additional outreach to the 
greater Orlando community through 
donations and support to local businesses 
and LGBTQX organizations and a $1 million 
contribution from Comcast NBCUniversal 
to the OneOrlando Fund.  It also spurred us 
to reach out to each other.  We channeled 
our strengths in media and production to 
unite our more than 159,000 employees for 
two remembrance ceremonies, simulcast 
across the globe.  As we continue to 
struggle with the effects of the senseless 
loss, we are reminded of our strong bonds 
to each other and our ability and obligation to support one another in times of tragedy. Measurable  
impact
1,400
Number of hours in pro  
bono services donated  
by Comcast NBCUniversal 
legal staff in 2016
11 million
Amount raised  
during the 2016  
United Way Employee  
Giving CampaignLearn more in our full report
This Executive Summary provides a synopsis of our efforts to address social issues  
and effect change throughout our communities.  You can view expanded stories 
and related information in the full online Comcast NBCUniversal Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report at corporate.comcast.com/csr2017.
