2012  
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
REPORT 2
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  2012 Comcast and NBCUniversal Corporate Social Responsibility Report                                     4
A Message from Brian L  Roberts                                                                                             5
A Message from David L  Cohen                                                                                             6
About Comcast                                                                                                                     7
About This Report                                                                                                                 9
2012 Results — By the Numbers                                                                                             10
CONNECTING MEDIA, TECHNOLOGY, AND PEOPLE  12
ENRICH COMMUNITIES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Building Family Resources on Comcast Cares Day                                                                    14
A New Chapter for Digital Literacy                                                                                          15
A Feast of Innovation                                                                                                            16
Responding to Local Needs                                                                                                  17
Developing Tomorrow’s Professionals and Leaders                                                                    18
Supporting Nonprofit Organizations                                                                                        20
CREATE MEDIA THAT MATTERS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
From Tragedy to Teamwork                                                                                                    22
Voting to Empower                                                                                                               24
Bringing Social Issues to the Forefront                                                                                    26
BRINGING OUT THE BEST IN PEOPLE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Enriching the Conversation in Sports Broadcasting                                                                    33
ASPiRE Network Seeks to Inspire                                                                                          34
Working with Diverse Suppliers                                                                                              35
Providing Diverse Content                                                                                                      39
Promoting Diversity and Inclusion Through Governance                                                            42
Supporting Diversity Through Partnerships                                                                               43
Recruiting and Retaining Diverse Talent                                                                                    44
Diversity in Our Workforce                                                                                                      46TABLE OF CONTENTS 3
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  DEVELOP AND ENGAGE EMPLOYEES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Building a Career from the Page Program Up                                                                            49
Heroes at Work                                                                                                                    50
Igniting Interest in Technology                                                                                                 52
Building Our Future                                                                                                              53
Supporting Our Employees and Their Families                                                                        55
Creating a Safer Workplace                                                                                                    56
DEEPENING TRUST THROUGH STEWARDSHIP   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
OPERATE RESPONSIBLY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Succeeding with Integrity                                                                                                      59
Safety Comes First in Bringing Transformers Ride to Life                                                            60
Keeping Our Customers’ Information Safe and Secure                                                              61
Preserving a Legacy of Integrity                                                                                            62
Fulfilling Our Commitments in the NBCUniversal Transaction                                                       65
REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Resource-Saving Mobile App Nets 2012 Eco GEM Award                                                          69
Equipping Homes for Energy Efficiency                                                                                    70
Making Our Productions More Sustainable                                                                              71
Encouraging Consumers to Conserve                                                                                      73
Operating More Efficiently                                                                                                      74
Awards and Recognition                                                                                                        77
Leadership and Professional Development Programs                                                                79
2012 Foundation Giving                                                                                                        84 TABLE OF CONTENTS
Cover photo: Democracy Plaza in front of NBCUniversal at 30 Rockefeller Center in New York City on the night of the 2012 
presidential election. 4
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  2012 COMCAST AND 
NBCUNIVERSAL  
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
At Comcast and NBCUniversal, we believe in the power and 
possibilities of media and technology. It’s more than what 
we do, it’s who we are. We’re a company of nearly 130,000 
employees committed to leveraging our global assets in 
ways that go beyond creating value for our customers and 
shareholders to connecting and strengthening communities. 
As a company uniquely positioned to inform, empower, and 
inspire, we embrace the opportunity to create conversation  
and mobilize action to address some of the nation’s most 
critical issues. At Comcast and NBCUniversal, it’s not just 
about moving our business forward, it’s about moving  
people forward.  5
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
A MESSAGE FROM BRIAN L. ROBERTS
Comcast is a success story 50 years in 
the making  Our primary businesses —  
Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal — 
strive to deliver the best in media and 
technology to homes and businesses 
worldwide  Our employees are among 
the most talented and committed in our 
industry   Our long-standing values keep 
us grounded and true, and our drive 
to shape the frontiers of information, 
entertainment, and communications 
inspires us to innovate  
While our reach is global and our 
vision long-term, we focus our day-to-
day energies on improving individual 
lives and communities  The collective 
strengths of our company create 
profound opportunities to inform, 
empower, and inspire people to make a 
positive difference  
As part of our commitment to doing 
business in a responsible way, we 
leverage our assets and expertise to 
amplify the power of information and 
magnify its impact in communities  This 
corporate responsibility report provides 
a close-up look at the progress we 
made in 2012 — and points to where 
we’re headed in the future  
Our cross-organizational response to 
Hurricane Sandy and NBCUniversal’s 
comprehensive coverage of the U S  
presidential election illustrate the power 
of media and technology to increase 
public awareness and mobilize action  
We also continued to bring attention 
to critical issues — such as living with 
breast cancer, fighting obesity, and 
combating discrimination — that  
affect millions Our efforts to close the digital divide 
highlight our unique ability to scale 
social awareness and impact  We are 
removing educational and economic 
barriers through programs such as 
Internet Essentials, the nation’s largest 
broadband adoption initiative, and our 
sponsorship of the Boys & Girls Clubs of 
America’s efforts to boost digital literacy   
We also made strides in reducing  
the environmental impact of our 
operations and products last year, 
particularly in reducing energy use  
Equally important, we educated 
audiences about urgent environmental 
issues  Through NBCUniversal’s annual 
Green is Universal campaign, we 
provided employees and consumers 
with simple ideas and practical ways to 
conserve resources 
Beyond advancing our commitment 
to enrich lives, we invest in these and 
other initiatives because they fulfill our 
business strategy and strengthen our 
relationships  Everything we do must 
generate value — for our customers, 
our shareholders, our employees, our 
viewers, and the many other groups 
we serve  There is always more 
ground to cover, and we continually 
seek out opportunities to improve our 
performance and earn the trust of  
our stakeholders  
Thank you for your interest in Comcast  
I’m proud to share our 2012 corporate 
social responsibility report with you, 
and I look forward to updating you as 
we continue to add to our story in the 
year ahead  
Brian L  Roberts  
Chairman & CEO“As part of our 
commitment to 
doing business in 
a responsible way, 
we leverage our 
assets and 
expertise to 
amplify the power 
of information and 
magnify its impact 
in communities.”
—Brian L . Roberts
 6
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  A MESSAGE FROM DAVID L. COHEN
At Comcast and NBCUniversal, acting 
responsibly drives what we do every 
day  It is a commitment shared by our 
employees around the globe  Together, 
we want our company to make a positive 
difference in our communities, and equally 
important, to inspire others to do the 
same  That is how we define leadership  
Among our priorities in 2012, we worked 
to enhance our company’s diverse and 
inclusive culture  This emphasis on 
diversity is not a new priority for us, and it 
continues to rise in strategic importance 
as we create deeper, more meaningful 
connections with customers and 
audiences in this country and overseas 
As a result, we launched new diverse 
networks and expanded our On 
Demand and online programming to 
better address the interests of African 
Americans, Hispanics, Asian Americans, 
and other ethnically diverse communities  
We stepped up our efforts to hire  
and develop employees who not  
only embody difference in their 
backgrounds and life experiences, 
but who also champion diverse 
views and ideas in their roles and 
responsibilities  And as part of our 
company’s commitment to provide job 
opportunities to the brave men and 
women who have served our country, 
we’re proud to have added more than 
1,000 veterans to our ranks — meeting 
our goal two years ahead of schedule 
We also believe ensuring everyone has 
broadband access to the Internet — 
plus the skills to take advantage of that 
access — diminishes disparities and 
equalizes opportunities  For that reason, 
we direct our corporate citizenship 
efforts to promoting digital literacy and 
doing whatever we can to help more 
low-income Americans get online 
Our work to strengthen communities 
goes on year-round, but each year we 
set aside one special day to underscore 
our long-standing, companywide 
commitment to service  In 2012, more 
than 75,000 of our employees, their 
friends, and their families marked the 
11th annual Comcast Cares Day by 
fanning out across the country to work 
on projects benefiting local schools and 
nonprofit organizations  And, in 2013, 
we set a new Comcast Cares Day record 
with 85,000-plus volunteers turning 
out — helping us surpass a milestone 
of more than 3 million hours of service 
donated since this yearly tradition  
began in 2001 
None of these initiatives would have the 
same impact without the contributions 
and collaboration of our community 
partners  We work closely with some 
of the nation’s finest organizations that 
share our passion for changing lives 
for the better   In the year ahead, we 
are eager to continue to build on our 
shared success  
At Comcast and NBCUniversal, we are 
proud of what we’ve achieved to date 
and pleased to share our progress for 
2012 — and in some instances for 2013 —  
in this corporate social responsibility 
report  Of course, we know we must 
continue to do more  We recognize that 
acting in a responsible manner is vital to 
the growth of our company, and will be 
for our next 50 years  
David L  Cohen  
Executive Vice President“Together, we want 
our company to 
make a positive 
difference in our 
communities, and 
equally important, 
to inspire others 
to do the same. 
That is how we 
define leadership.”
—David L . Cohen
 7
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  ABOUT COMCAST
Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ: CMCSA, CMCSK) is a global 
media and technology company with two primary businesses, 
Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal. Through our predecessors, 
we have developed, managed, and operated cable systems 
since 1963, and in 2013, we completed our acquisition of the 
businesses of NBCUniversal. Our businesses include:
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Cable Communications is the nation’s largest provider of video, 
high-speed Internet, and voice services (“cable services”) to 
residential customers under the XFINITY brand, and we also 
provide these services to businesses. 
CABLE NETWORKS
Cable Networks include our national cable networks, our 
regional sports and news networks, our international cable 
networks, our cable television production studio, and our 
related digital media properties.
* Minority and/or noncontrolling interest* * 
*  8
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  ABOUT COMCAST
BROADCAST TELEVISION
Broadcast Television includes the NBC and Telemundo 
broadcast networks, our NBC- and Telemundo-owned 
local broadcast television stations, our broadcast television 
production operations, and our related digital media properties.
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
Filmed Entertainment includes Universal Pictures, which 
produces, acquires, markets, and distributes filmed 
entertainment worldwide.
THEME PARKS AND OTHER HOLDINGS
Theme Parks include our Universal theme parks in Orlando 
and Hollywood.
Comcast-Spectacor owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the 
Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia and operates arena 
management-related businesses.
 9
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  ABOUT THIS REPORT
This is Comcast’s sixth corporate social responsibility report, 
covering our 2012 fiscal year (January 1, 2012, to December 
31, 2012), and our second report including NBCUniversal. We 
developed this report to address the issues that we believe 
are of the most interest to our business and our stakeholders, 
and have detailed the scope of our key initiatives and 
described their respective impacts. 
The Governance and Directors Nominating Committee 
of Comcast’s Board of Directors periodically reviews and 
assesses this report.
This report includes our second annual Diversity & Inclusion 
Progress Report, highlighting how, together, we are providing 
more innovative programming and distribution opportunities; 
creating more opportunities for diverse suppliers and 
employees; and better serving the interests of many key 
segments of the viewing audience, including local viewers 
in the markets served by NBCUniversal’s owned and 
operated NBC and Telemundo stations. We are providing 
more content that is relevant to the particular interests of 
African Americans, Asian Americans, Hispanics, children and 
families, and other diverse audiences. We’ve also continued 
to make significant strides in narrowing the broadband 
adoption gap among low-income families. 10
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
2012 RESULTS — BY THE NUMBERS
454,000 HOURS 
VOLUNTEERED 
BY 75,000 COMCAST AND NBCUNIVERSAL 
EMPLOYEES, THEIR FAMILIES, AND 
FRIENDS ON COMCAST CARES DAY
500,000  
YOUTH SERVED 
THROUGH THE BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF 
AMERICA CLUB TECH PROGRAM 
16% ANNUAL  
INCREASE  
IN ON DEMAND DIVERSE  
PROGRAMMING OPTIONS900,000 LOW-INCOME 
AMERICANS PROVIDED 
BROADBAND ACCESS
AS PARTICIPANTS IN INTERNET  
ESSENTIALS IN THE FIRST 22 MONTHS
MORE THAN 1,200 
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 
SUPPORTED BY  
OUR FOUNDATIONS
78,000 DONATIONS  
MADE PER HOUR
DURING THE  HURRICANE SANDY:  
COMING TOGETHER  TELETHON,  
RAISING $23 MILLION$5.6 MILLION 
EMPLOYEE PLEDGES 
TO UNITED WAY 
THE MOST IN  
COMPANY HISTORY
$400 MILLION CASH AND 
IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS  
DONATED BY COMCAST AND 
NBCUNIVERSAL TO  
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
40,000 HISPANIC VOTERS 
REGISTERED  
THROUGH TELEMUNDO’S VOTA  
POR TU FUTURO CAMPAIGN454K
500K
16%900K
1.2K +
78K$5.6M
$400M
40K 11
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  2012 RESULTS — BY THE NUMBERS
$250 MILLION OF  
AIRTIME DONATED 
FOR PUBLIC SERVICE 
ANNOUNCEMENTS
$57 MILLION  
INVESTMENT
IN EMPLOYEE TRAINING  
MORE THAN 1 MILLION   
UNIQUE VISITORS
TO NBCUNIVERSAL'S  
ONE SMALL ACT CAMPAIGN WEBSITE  
DURING EARTH WEEK$216 MILLION  
CORPORATE MATCHING 
CONTRIBUTIONS TO  
EMPLOYEE 401(K) ACCOUNTS
1,888 TONS OF  
RECYCLABLES RECOVERED
AT UNIVERSAL ORLANDO RESORT—  
NEARLY 15% OF THE FACILITY’S TOTAL 
WASTE STREAM$1 BILLION TOTAL 
PROCUREMENT 
SPEND WITH DIVERSE SUPPLIERS  
(INCLUDING TIER I AND TIER II SUPPLIERS)
15% ANNUAL REDUCTION  
IN COMCAST CABLE’S OCCUPATIONAL 
SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION  
(OSHA) INCIDENTS
MORE THAN 7,500  
HYBRID AND  
FLEX-FUEL VEHICLES
OPERATED BY COMCAST, HELPING CUT 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY 25%$250M
$57M
1M+$216M
1.8K +$1B
15%
7. 5 K +6 MILLION TOTAL  
CUSTOMERS ENROLLED 
IN ECOBILL®, OUR PAPERLESS BILLING 
PROGRAM THAT SAVED $35 MILLION6M 12
2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  This is the unique power of our business  
Comcast and NBCUniversal bring media 
and technology together in innovative 
ways that connect people across 
America and beyond, creating impact 
on a scale much larger than we could 
achieve alone  The key to our success 
is leveraging our unrivaled mix of assets 
and expertise to inform and inspire 
people  Our products, services, and 
content build on each other to advance 
our business while also fueling change 
for the greater good 
No one in the United States provides 
more residences and businesses 
with high-speed Internet access 
than Comcast, and we are leaders 
in delivering phone and digital video 
services  NBCUniversal reaches large 
and diverse audiences via television, 
film, digital content, and theme parks  
Combining those strengths gives us an 
unprecedented ability to tackle a range 
of significant issues  So when a natural disaster such 
as Hurricane Sandy strikes, we go 
above and beyond to not only deliver 
comprehensive news coverage and 
maintain key communications services, 
but also rapidly mobilize viewers 
to donate to relief efforts  Through 
these and other initiatives, we unleash 
the amplifying effect of media and 
technology to enable millions to make 
a positive difference  Not simply in their 
own lives, but in the lives of others 
Media offers more than a way to inform 
and motivate people in times of crisis  
It offers opportunities to address larger, 
more pervasive challenges across the 
social spectrum  We believe we make 
our greatest contribution when we 
seize these opportunities to bring more 
voices into the dialogue and foster 
deeper understanding of issues that 
shape our world  Applying technology 
to fuel long-term, systemic change 
complements our ability to harness the power of media  Comcast’s initiatives 
to expand broadband adoption open 
up meaningful educational and career 
avenues for disadvantaged and low-
income families  Narrowing the digital 
divide also unlocks communication, 
health, financial, and other online 
resources that can level the playing field 
and improve quality of life  By providing 
affordable high-speed Internet access 
for millions and promoting digital literacy, 
we’re addressing root causes of social 
inertia and inequality  
No one can connect media, technology, 
and people as Comcast and 
NBCUniversal can  Our initiatives, like 
our business, were diverse and far-
reaching in 2012, but shared a common 
purpose: to empower more people to 
go farther, do more, and make a bigger 
difference Amazing things happen when media and technology converge. Eyes open. 
Communities come together. Information sparks action that helps individuals learn, 
grow, and prosper. 
CONNECTING  
MEDIA,  
 TECHNOLOGY,  
AND PEOPLE 13
2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
ENRICH 
COMMUNITIES
Comcast and NBCUniversal give back to the communities we serve. We 
empower our local partners with resources to improve neighborhoods and 
create opportunities that change lives for the better. We also provide funding 
and in-kind support to deepen the positive impact of nonprofit organizations. 14
ENRICH COMMUNITIES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
BUILDING FAMILY RESOURCES ON 
COMCAST CARES DAY
Our annual Comcast Cares Day — the 
country’s largest single-day corporate 
volunteer effort — “has helped Mi Casa 
completely transform the beauty of our 
building and how welcoming it feels to 
families who come in,” says Christine 
Marquez-Hudson, CEO and Executive 
Director of Mi Casa  “When Comcast 
Cares Day comes around, our center 
is like an anthill of energy and activity  ” 
In 2012, more than 70 Comcast Cares 
Day volunteers repaired railings, re-
plastered ceilings, made repairs to the 
parking lot, and painted interior walls — 
creating a more appealing and uplifting 
atmosphere for Mi Casa’s clients 
“Remember that our name is ‘Mi Casa’ — 
the whole idea is that the place feels  
like home when you walk through the 
doors,” Christine says  “The donated 
materials and building maintenance  
from Comcast Cares Day have been 
critical to our continued success as  
an organization ”beyond this annual event  In addition 
to helping improve its facilities, we 
also work with Mi Casa year-round to 
provide clients with valuable technology 
skills and computer access through the 
Comcast Digital Connectors and Internet 
Essentials programs  (See our feature 
story about promoting digital literacy 
on page 15 )
“At Mi Casa, we believe economic 
success is at the foundation of so 
many other kinds of success,” Christine 
says  “If a family can put a roof over 
their heads and feed themselves, then 
they can pursue all kinds of educational 
goals, be healthier, and be active in the 
community — and that leads to greater 
power for the family over their own lives ”
Comcast is proud to support Mi Casa’s 
mission, and through Comcast Cares 
Day, our employees gain a personal 
stake in helping communities and 
families succeed 
“Comcast has always been that ideal 
partner that we measure all other 
partnerships against,” Christine adds  
“It’s a great merger of mutual interest ” 
Learn more about Comcast Cares Day 
at http:// corporate comcast com/  
our-values  
Learn more about Mi Casa at  
www  micasaresourcecenter  org The goal of Comcast Cares Day is to 
amplify the collective goodwill of our 
employees, families, and friends —  
and make a lasting impact in the 
communities we serve  Our employees 
contribute many of the ideas for local 
projects, from revitalizing parks and 
beautifying schools to stocking food 
banks and installing computer labs 
In 2012, more than 75,000 Comcast 
and NBCUniversal employees, family 
members, and friends volunteered in 
local community service projects during 
Comcast Cares Day   We worked at 665 
different locations, provided more than 
454,000 labor hours, and awarded more 
than $1 5 million in Comcast Foundation 
matching grants in 2012  Our volunteers 
have donated more than 2 6 million 
service hours to more than 4,200 
projects since this event began in 2001  
And our involvement with local 
organizations like Mi Casa stretches well Mi Casa Resource Center, a nonprofit dedicated to providing 
economic and social advancement support to Hispanic families 
in Denver, Colorado, depends on a warm, inviting space to 
draw in families who truly need a hand. When the organization 
developed a facilities renovation plan in 2005, Comcast was 
there to help and has remained a long-term partner. 
Christine Marquez-Hudson, CEO and 
Executive Director of Mi Casa, says Comcast 
is “that ideal partner that we measure all  
other partnerships against.”
WWW  
WWW   15
ENRICH COMMUNITIES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  A NEW CHAPTER FOR DIGITAL LITERACY
Our investments in expanding 
access to digital literacy 
skills and the Internet gave 
thousands of low-income 
families the keys to more 
information and better 
educational, professional, and 
social opportunities in 2012. 
Comcast’s flagship program in this effort 
is Internet Essentials, the nation’s largest 
and most comprehensive broadband 
access initiative  In the first 22 months 
of the program, we have connected 
more than 220,000 families to the web 
— most for the first time — benefiting an 
estimated 900,000 low-income Americans 
nationwide; distributed more than 18,000 
computers for less than $150 each; and 
provided in-person training for nearly 
20,000 people  These resources help lay 
the foundation for digital literacy, a skill set 
we believe is vital for everyone 
Although we’ve made great progress, 
millions of Americans remain disconnected 
from the benefits that technology makes 
possible  This lack of access makes it 
harder to apply for jobs, seize educational 
opportunities, and register for basic 
services  We know we have more to do 
to expand access to information and help 
people build the skills to use it 
To rise to that challenge, Comcast is 
working with educators at more than 
30,000 schools in 39 states to expand 
Internet Essentials  Our employees also 
work with nearly 7,000 community-based 
organizations, government agencies, and 
elected officials to ensure eligible families 
are aware of the program  Since its launch, 
the Internet Essentials website and  
learning portal have received 1  2 million hits 
“There’s nothing more important than the 
personal empowerment of kids,” says core club programs  Club Tech teaches 
young people practical skills they can use to 
move ahead — whether by setting up their 
first email account or studying for college 
entrance exams online 
We support more than 2,000 Boys & Girls 
Clubs across the country, including those 
using Club Tech to serve about 500,000 
students in 2012  Out of this group, 13 
exemplary teens also received recognition 
for their achievements in digital expression —  
from gaming to music and film — at the 
Club Tech Digital Arts Festival hosted at our 
corporate headquarters in Philadelphia  
“Right now, the digital divide creates a chasm 
between those who are truly empowered 
and those who miss out,” Alberto says  “We 
must work to erase it within our lifetime — 
not tomorrow, but today  ”
Watch the Internet Essentials video at  
http:// corporate comcast com/
csrvideo2012  
Learn more about Internet Essentials at 
www  internetessentials com  
Learn more about Digital Connectors  
and Boys & Girls Clubs of America at  
http://corporate  comcast com/our-values  Alberto Carvalho, Superintendent of 
Miami-Dade County Public Schools  “For 
us to unlock the full potential of learning, 
we need to eliminate the restrictions that 
students face  Internet Essentials leads 
me to believe that we have the power, the 
wisdom, and the will to reinvent America 
into a better version of itself ” 
To help prepare more people for computer-
related jobs, we also offer advanced digital 
skills training — such as digital media 
production and computer networking — 
through the Comcast Digital Connectors 
program  In tandem with Internet 
Essentials, this program teaches low-
income youths between the ages of 14 
and 21 the fundamentals of technology 
and how to put it to use 
Graduates of the Comcast Digital 
Connectors program receive a Certificate 
of Course Completion in IT Essentials for 
PC Hardware and Software from CISCO, 
plus a complimentary notebook PC to 
take back to their communities — where 
we expect them to share their newfound 
knowledge and spread the impact of 
their learning  More than 650 students in 
41 U S  cities graduated from the Digital 
Connectors program during the 2011–12 
school year, and nearly 1,900 students 
have graduated from the program to date 
In 2012, Comcast also became the lead 
sponsor of the Boys & Girls Clubs of 
America’s Club Tech program, which 
incorporates technology training into 
WWW  
WWW   16
ENRICH COMMUNITIES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  network of farmers, engineers, and 
supporters working to create what they 
call the Global Village Construction Set  
The set is a repository of open-source, or 
freely available, manufacturing designs 
that make it simpler to fabricate — by 
hand — the 50 industrial machines that 
have the biggest potential to improve 
lives on a grand scale, such as bulldozers, 
bakery ovens, and electric generators  
“We saw the potential scale and impact of 
Open Source Ecology’s work,” Jerri notes  
“It is something very ambitious, and it has 
potential applications both here in the 
U S  and abroad ” By broadening do-it-
yourself access to life-changing industrial 
machines, Open Source Ecology aims to 
remove entry barriers to farming, building, 
and manufacturing  Open Source 
Ecology plans to use its prize money to 
develop technical training documentation 
such as instructional videos, 3-D models, 
and fabrication manuals 
It’s precisely the kind of idea The Feast 
and NBCUniversal set out to support — 
one that brings creative minds together 
to make a positive difference on a global 
scale  And it’s a real-world example 
of The Feast’s underlying premise that 
creative people can accomplish more 
together than alone  
“I think what sets us apart is that we take 
a more creative approach to problem 
solving that leads to really out-of-the-
box solutions,” Jerri says  “A partner like 
NBCUniversal makes it a reality — with 
the potential to share stories with a much 
wider audience than we can reach alone ”
Watch The Rev Up Change Challenge 
video at http:// corporate comcast com/
csrvideo2012  A FEAST OF INNOVATION
Each year, The Feast Conference brings innovative thinkers 
and entrepreneurs together to turn ambitious ideas into real-
world solutions for people around the globe. Jerri Chou, who 
co-founded the annual conference in 2008, says participants 
come from a range of industries and backgrounds but have two 
things in common: a hunger for positive change and the drive 
to make it happen.
inspire people and give them a vision,” 
Jerri says  “Rev Up Change offers 
the entrepreneurial, social innovation 
community a chance to really promote 
their works and take ideas to the  
next level ” 
A panel of judges selected five finalists — 
projects that were not only innovative, but 
also sustainable and scalable to benefit 
as many people as possible  Then the 
public had a chance to view the finalists’ 
projects online and vote  The grand prize: 
$25,000 to help the winners move their 
projects forward and the opportunity to 
speak at The Feast Conference, where 
their ideas could take center stage 
among an audience of fellow social 
innovators and potential investors  
The 2012 Rev Up Change Challenge 
prize went to Open Source Ecology — a “We’re a community of entrepreneurs, 
architects, speakers, thinkers, 
photographers, engineers — you name it,” 
Jerri says  The Feast gives participants 
a chance to combine their talents and 
challenge each other   It creates an 
open forum where they can build on 
each other’s ideas in a collaborative 
effort to make life better in communities 
worldwide, she says  
In 2012, The Feast and NBCUniversal 
teamed up to create The Rev Up 
Change Challenge, a program that helps 
innovators spread the word about their 
projects and build the support they need 
to magnify their impact and broaden  
their reach  
“Through our partnership with 
NBCUniversal, we have the potential 
to present more optimistic stories — to 
Jerri Chou, co-founder of The Feast Conference, says partnering with NBCUniversal has helped inspire 
“a more creative approach to problem solving that leads to really out-of-the-box solutions.”
 17
ENRICH COMMUNITIES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  TODAY TOY DRIVE
$335 million 
Value of toys that have  
been donated through the  
TODAY Toy Drive during 19  
holiday collections.  
RESPONDING TO LOCAL NEEDS
Comcast and NBCUniversal 
take a personal stake in 
improving every community 
where we live and work. 
Through educational 
programs and donations 
of time and resources, we 
seek to make a positive local 
impact in communities across 
the nation.
BITES, CAMERA, ACTION
Millions of U S  families struggle to put 
enough food on their table each day — a 
challenge that’s particularly hard on 
children  In 2012, our Universal Orlando 
Resort food services employees put 
their culinary talents to work in a special 
way, helping create effective solutions 
to the problem of hunger in Florida  
Supported by a grant from the Universal 
Orlando Foundation, we founded Bites, 
Camera, Action — a program that 
brings a mobile food pantry to families 
in need throughout Central Florida — in 
partnership with Second Harvest Food Bank, After-School All-Stars Orlando, and 
other agencies  The program gives our 
food services employees a chance to use 
their unique skills and expertise to make 
an impact in their community, promoting 
nutrition in middle schools, providing 
monthly food boxes to hungry families, 
and replenishing local food pantries 
EARTHQUAKE PREPAREDNESS 
AT UNIVERSAL STUDIOS IN 
HOLLYWOOD
The threat of a major earthquake on the 
West Coast puts many of our viewers, 
employees, family members, and 
neighbors at risk  Preparing for this 
possibility is a top priority   
NBCUniversal’s Emergency Services 
department, which is nationally 
recognized for its disaster preparedness 
program, partnered with local agencies 
across Los Angeles in October 2012 to 
host an educational open house focused 
on earthquake preparedness  NBC4 
Southern California and the American 
Red Cross’ PrepareSoCal initiative 
helped present this event for nearly 400 
people on the Universal Studios Backlot 
UNITED WAY
With a network of more than 1,200 local 
affiliates in the United States, United 
Way is uniquely positioned to serve 
each of the communities where our Ed Colleran, a chef at Universal Orlando 
CityWalk®, teaches local students about nutrition 
as part of the Bites, Camera, Action program.employees live and work nationwide  
Comcast has supported United Way 
since our founding in 1963, and we have 
been part of the organization’s Global 
Corporate Leadership program for a 
decade  Comcast and NBCUniversal are 
ranked nationally as a United Way top 
50 corporate contributor   
Since 2001, our two-week annual 
campaign has brought in $36 9 million 
from more than 288,000 employee 
pledges and special events to help local 
United Way affiliates improve education, 
health, and other critical needs for 
people in thousands of communities  
Our 2012 campaign brought in $5 6 
million — the most in company history —  
from more than 48,000 employee 
pledges  The Comcast Foundation 
matched these donations with $1 6 
million in grants  The United Way 
Spirit of America and Summit Award 
program honored us with two awards for 
volunteer engagement and philanthropic 
engagement in 2012 
View the United Way campaign video 
at http:// corporate comcast com/
csrvideo2012   
$44 .6 
million 
Our record-setting  
contribution in 2012.
 18
ENRICH COMMUNITIES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  DEVELOPING TOMORROW’S 
PROFESSIONALS AND LEADERS
The vitality of our country — 
and our long-term business 
success — depends on 
providing education and 
leadership opportunities that 
encourage students to excel. 
In 2012, we offered inspiring 
programs to help young 
people learn the skills they’ll 
need to achieve their career 
and personal goals. 
BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS: 
BEYOND SCHOOL WALLS 
Comcast works with Big Brothers 
Big Sisters of America to connect our 
employees with students in need  We 
launched the Beyond School Walls 
program in 2008, pairing 4th-grade 
“Littles” from Fairhill Elementary School 
with employee “Bigs” at Comcast 
headquarters in Philadelphia  Students 
come to our offices to meet twice a 
month during the school year   
During that first year, our employees 
in the program reported greater work 
satisfaction, and the students they 
mentored showed improved grades — 
encouraging us to expand the program  
Today, we have nearly 300 employees 
participating in 13 cities nationwide, and 
our Beyond School Walls program has 
become the largest workplace-based 
mentoring program in the country   And 
we’ve given more than $47 million in 
cash and in-kind support since 2008 
Comcast’s Beyond School Walls 
program has succeeded in creating more 
diverse matches and retaining a higher 
percentage of participants compared 
with nationwide averages for other Big 
Brothers Big Sisters programs  We also 
have above-average numbers of male Bigs and Littles in the Beyond School 
Walls program  
In recognition of our support, Big 
Brothers Big Sisters honored Comcast 
with its President’s Award at the 
organization’s 2012 annual summit  
ART OF TOMORROW
NBCUniversal is creating hands-on 
learning labs where local students 
can explore media and entertainment 
industry careers in an exciting, real-
world environment  Hosted at Universal 
Orlando, the Art of Tomorrow program 
inspires teenagers to stay in school and 
pursue careers as professional artists 
and designers  We developed and 
launched the program in partnership 
with Orange County Public Schools in 
Florida, beginning with an 8th-grade 
curriculum that advances college and 
career readiness in the arts  The program 
helps raise awareness among students, 
opens up career opportunities in the 
entertainment industry and beyond, 
and helps seed the next generation of 
Universal Orlando creative talent Participants worked in small groups 
alongside Universal Orlando artists, 
designers, and producers — getting 
a behind-the-scenes look at the 
development of theme park attractions, 
learning how to design and build them, 
and creating short documentaries about 
the creative jobs of tomorrow   At the end 
of the program, students invited their 
families and faculty supporters to view 
their creations at a “red carpet premiere 
screening” at the Universal CityWalk® 
AMC® Cineplex theater  
“Bringing real-world expertise and insight 
to our students has made a significant 
impact on their understanding of career 
opportunities in the arts,” says Scott T   
Evans, Fine Arts Coordinator for Orange 
County Public Schools 
See the Art of Tomorrow video at  
http:// corporate comcast com/
csrvideo2012  Comcast employee Jaclyn McAdams, left, a volunteer mentor in the Big Brothers Big Sisters program, 
greets her “Little,” Ariana, at the start of the 2012–13 school year.
 19
ENRICH COMMUNITIES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
City Year worked with 12 schools to 
measure the impact of its Diplomas 
Now initiative on students identified as 
off-track at any point during the 2011–
12 school year   At these schools, City 
Year reduced the number of students 
with less than 85% attendance by 45%, 
reduced the number of suspended 
students by 68%, reduced the number 
of students failing English by 61%, and 
reduced the number of students failing 
math by 52% 
LEADERS AND ACHIEVERS® 
SCHOLARSHIPS 
Now in its 13th year, the Comcast 
Leaders and Achievers® Scholarship 
Program recognizes high school 
seniors in both Comcast and 
NBCUniversal markets for their 
community service, academic CITY YEAR
Since 2001, Comcast has supported 
the nonprofit organization City Year in 
bringing volunteers into public schools 
to help students stay on the path to 
graduation  City Year corps members 
spend a full year in the program, which 
helps them develop leadership and 
career skills while mentoring others  
Comcast and NBCUniversal support 
City Year teams in 11 cities nationwide, 
including a new team in Orlando that 
launched in fall 2012  With our support, 
City Year served more than 100,000 
children during the 2011–12 school year  
City Year has had an amazing impact 
on participants and their local 
communities  For example, Comcast 
and NBCUniversal have supported a 
City Year team in Chicago since 2010  
During that time, City Year mentors have 
helped 84% of students at the Howe 
School of Excellence, a middle school 
on Chicago’s South Side, maintain or 
improve their attendance, while 89% 
of off-track students have achieved 
average grades of C or higher  DEVELOPING TOMORROW’S PROFESSIONALS AND LEADERS
Utah high school seniors celebrate receiving $1,000 through the Comcast Leaders and Achievers® 
Scholarship Program.Comcast and NBCUniversal support the nonprofit 
City Year, which brings volunteer mentors into 
public schools nationwide.achievement, and leadership skills  
Nearly half of our 2012–13 scholarship 
recipients — who are nominated by 
their high school principals or guidance 
counselors for the one-time award of 
$1,000 — are from diverse backgrounds  
Leaders and Achievers® provided more 
than $1 8 million to 1,800 students in 
the 2012–13 school year   And since 
2001, we’ve awarded $19 million in 
scholarships 
$1.8  
million
Awarded to  
students for the  
2012–13 school  
year through the Comcast Leaders  
and Achievers® Scholarship Program. 20
ENRICH COMMUNITIES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
SUPPORTING NONPROFIT 
ORGANIZATIONS
Grassroots organizations across the country are working tirelessly to create better learning 
opportunities, improve services for low-income families, provide safe places for children to 
play, and address countless other social needs. We deepen the impact that these innovative 
nonprofits are making around the country through our targeted giving programs.
education, environment, jobs and 
economic empowerment, and technology   
The competition took place in 10 
major U S  cities, with one winning 
organization and two runners-up in 
each market — for a total of $1 2 million 
shared among 30 organizations  Winners 
included a micro-savings initiative aimed 
at helping low-income working families 
develop strong financial habits and an 
employment program that helps expand 
work opportunities for disabled youth  
See the full list of  organizations that 
have received funding from our 
foundations on page 84 In 2012, Comcast and NBCUniversal 
provided more than $400 million in 
cash and in-kind contributions to local, 
regional, and national organizations that 
share our commitment to improving 
communities and enriching lives 
THE COMCAST FOUNDATION
The Comcast Foundation is dedicated to 
investing in communities by expanding 
digital literacy, promoting community 
service, and developing the next generation 
of leaders  Since 1999, we have given more 
than $122 million to organizations in the 
communities we serve across the country  We awarded $16 2 million in grants  
to more than 1,000 nonprofit 
organizations in 2012 
21ST CENTURY SOLUTIONS AND 
THE NBCUNIVERSAL FOUNDATION
The NBCUniversal Foundation partnered 
with our NBC Owned Television Stations 
division last year to launch 21st Century 
Solutions, a competitive grant program 
that supports innovative, high-impact 
social entrepreneurship projects  We 
award grants to nonprofit organizations 
in seven categories: arts and media, civic 
engagement, community development,  21
2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
CREATE MEDIA 
THAT MATTERS
Timely, relevant information can inspire people and energize organizations to work 
toward social change. Comcast and NBCUniversal apply our unique strengths in 
media creation and delivery to educate audiences and move them to action. Our 
focus on elevating issues and raising awareness, from the presidential election 
to Hurricane Sandy relief efforts, helped amplify information’s power to spark 
positive results. 22
CREATE MEDIA THAT MATTERS2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  FROM TRAGEDY TO TEAMWORK
Hurricane Sandy, one of the most destructive storms in 
U.S. history, pummeled the East Coast in October 2012 — 
endangering lives, causing severe damage, and disrupting 
the lives of millions of people. Comcast and NBCUniversal 
responded immediately, drawing on every resource we  
had to help our communities and neighbors remain safe 
and informed. 
We swiftly pulled together the power 
of NBC News, The Weather Channel, 
our owned-and-operated local TV 
stations, and our other networks to 
deliver unprecedented and up-to-the-
minute news coverage of the storm  
Our credible and respected journalists 
informed viewers on everything from 
transportation delays and shutdowns 
to mandatory evacuations and power 
outages, while also assessing the 
storm’s impact on the economy and 
impending presidential election  
By leveraging our vast media resources, 
we helped ensure safety information 
was accessible to as many people Employee safety was the top priority for 
Comcast in the wake of the hurricane, 
followed by assessing the damage, 
restoring communications services to 
our customers, and helping affected 
communities  “We worked with first 
responders, the New York City Office 
of Emergency Management, and the 
New Jersey Office of Emergency 
Management to get them restored 
first,” LeAnn says  “We then brought in 
generators and fuel to hard-hit areas —  
including places that went up to six 
weeks without power  ”
Comcast opened up access to 
approximately 20,000 XFINITY hotspots 
in 10 hard-hit states and the District of 
Columbia, providing free WiFi access 
for people to communicate with family 
and friends or receive crucial recovery 
information  Our hotspots supported 
more than 250,000 individual sessions 
involving tens of thousands of unique 
users  We worked with local agencies 
and organizations to set up free 
broadband Internet and telephone 
service in temporary shelters  And we 
opened our 15 New Jersey payment 
centers to provide free power-charging 
stations to anyone in need  “It’s in our “It’s in our corporate 
DNA to give back 
and support 
communities. We 
saw the horrific 
damage firsthand 
and wanted to do 
anything we could 
to help.”
—LeAnn Talbot
as possible during the hurricane  We 
went beyond merely reporting on the 
disaster that was unfolding in front of 
us  Our news organizations informed 
and empowered those affected by the 
storm by providing unrivaled, 24/7 news 
coverage on multiple platforms  
Before Hurricane Sandy hit, Comcast 
teams in the Northeast and other affected 
regions took every precaution they could 
to help area residents prepare  “We 
increased our staffing immediately and 
notified customers of our plan and what 
they should do after the storm hit,” says 
LeAnn Talbot, Regional Senior Vice 
President at Comcast   23
CREATE MEDIA THAT MATTERS2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
corporate DNA to give back and support 
communities,” says LeAnn  “We saw the 
horrific damage firsthand and wanted to 
do anything we could to help ” 
NBCUniversal also saw an immediate 
need to help in the wake of Hurricane 
Sandy   In less than 36 hours, our 
employees — many with damage to 
their own homes — organized the 
star-studded Hurricane Sandy: Coming 
Together telethon  “We needed to 
help people as soon as possible and 
knew moving quickly would generate a 
bigger response,” says Doug Vaughan, 
Executive Vice President of Special 
Programs and Late Night Programming  
Our employees worked around the 
clock, making calls and gathering 
support to produce the event  The 
telethon generated more than $23 
million in pledges for the American Red 
Cross relief efforts 
Sting, Bruce Springsteen, Billy Joel, and 
Aerosmith were among the featured 
musicians, while celebrities like Jon 
Stewart, Tina Fey, Jimmy Fallon, 
and Whoopi Goldberg made guest 
appearances to urge viewers to donate  
“All of the celebrities and musicians were 
eager to help,” Doug says  
The Hurricane Sandy: Coming Together  
telethon inspired unprecedented 
generosity   A record-breaking number 
of donations poured in through 
text messages, phone calls, and 
online channels  As a result, the Red 
Cross processed more than 1,300 
transactions a minute, its website was 
at 500 times its normal capacity, and at 
any given moment during the telethon 
we had approximately 70,000 people 
waiting to donate 
“Donations to the Red Cross generated 
by the telethon, and from other FROM TRAGEDY TO TEAMWORK
generous donors across the country, 
have provided shelter, food, water, and 
supplies after the storm,” says Neal 
Litvack, Chief Development Officer 
for the American Red Cross  “These 
donations are helping people and 
communities recover and rebuild ”
The Hurricane Sandy: Coming Together  
telethon showcased the power of 
media in mobilizing positive action and 
amplifying relief efforts  “This could never 
have occurred in such a short period 
of time without the incredible people at 
Comcast and NBCUniversal,” says Peggy 
Dyer, Chief Marketing Officer at the 
American Red Cross  “They were able 
to quickly organize an informative and 
inspiring event that encouraged viewers 
to get involved and make a difference ”View the Hurricane Sandy news coverage 
video at http:// corporate comcast com/
csrvideo2012  
See the Coming Together  telethon 
video at http:// corporate comcast com/
csrvideo2012  NBC Nightly News anchor Brian Williams urges viewers to donate during the Hurricane Sandy: 
Coming Together telethon, which generated more than $23 million for the American Red Cross.
 24
CREATE MEDIA THAT MATTERS2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  VOTING TO EMPOWER 
Comcast and NBCUniversal 
leveraged our unrivaled 
assets to educate and inspire 
audiences on a variety of 
issues during the 2012 
presidential election. Our 
news organizations provided 
balanced, in-depth coverage 
and created programming 
that examined the issues 
from a broad range of 
perspectives. We also worked 
to increase voter registration 
and empower people with 
the resources they needed to 
participate in the election and 
make their voices heard.
Transparency and accuracy were the 
cornerstones of our Decision 2012 
election coverage  “We tried to bring the 
issues to life,” says Phil Griffin, President 
of MSNBC  “We sent shows around 
the country to talk to real communities 
about real problems and generate 
interest ” In the course of providing 
unfiltered information directly to voters, 
our respected hosts and journalists 
helped viewers understand each 
issue and its relevance  “The power of 
MSNBC is in putting smart, passionate 
people on the air who always do their 
homework,” Phil says 
Touring communities and discussing real 
issues reaffirmed the need for diverse 
perspectives in our Decision 2012 
coverage  “We want to reflect America 
in the 21st century,” Phil says  “So not 
only do our hosts represent the diversity 
of this country, but so do our guests and 
the issues we cover  ”
Comcast also launched new 
programming resources to help our 
customers stay informed  Election 
Central, a programming package offered 
on XFINITY TV, allowed viewers to 
watch 2012 election coverage 24/7 on 
their computers, televisions, and mobile 
devices  The programming included live 
breaking news, speeches, debates, and 
election results  
Beyond just reporting on the candidates 
and issues, we felt a responsibility 
to help people register to vote and 
navigate what can feel like a complex, 
intimidating process 
NBCUniversal created Make It Personal, 
a campaign to empower voters with 
valuable tools and resources  Topics in 
this series included voter registration, 
candidate profiles, and election laws  
Make it Personal also featured voting facts along with answers to common 
questions, such as where to vote, what 
to bring to the polls, and how to obtain 
an absentee ballot  Our broadcast and 
cable networks and our owned-and-
operated local TV stations adopted this 
campaign to reach the largest possible 
audience with practical tools to help 
them feel prepared to vote  
These election-focused tools and 
resources played a pivotal role 
in helping NBC Latino , a website 
dedicated to delivering news that 
affects the Hispanic community, bring 
to life political issues that voters care 
about  “Our goal was to take issues 
beyond the usual conversation,” says 
Chris Pe ña, Executive Editor of NBC 
Latino  “There are stereotypes that 
Hispanics only care about certain 
issues, like immigration laws, and that 
they only follow news in Spanish ”MSNBC’s Morning Joe program broadcasting live from Tampa, Florida, during the 2012 Republican 
National Convention. 25
CREATE MEDIA THAT MATTERS2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  VOTING TO EMPOWER
NBC Latino sought to counter these 
stereotypes by broadening the 
scope of its election stories while 
also ensuring the coverage remained 
accessible and relevant  “There has 
been a lack of information geared 
toward Hispanic voters,” says Chris, 
“but as the demographic grows, so 
does the content ” 
Telemundo, one of our Spanish-
language channels, also developed the 
Vota por tu Futuro  (Vote for Your Future) 
campaign to help mobilize and educate 
Hispanic voters  Many affiliates adopted 
this multiplatform campaign, which 
reached a widespread audience and 
resulted in more than 40,000 Hispanics 
registering to vote  
Comcast took additional steps to 
educate and empower first-time 
voters  We worked with partners like 
Rock the Vote, ourtime org, and the 
National Constitution Center to collect 
and distribute election-related content 
across multiple outlets on multiple 
platforms  The campaign generated 
more than 2 million impressions, 
including 83,000 views through  
XFINITY On Demand  
As the political landscape constantly 
shifts, Comcast and NBCUniversal 
remain focused on delivering  
programs and resources that  
empower our audiences  
“We can’t be stuck in the past,” Phil says 
of MSNBC’s approach  “If we want to 
educate and empower Americans in 
the 21st century, we need to embrace 
change, not hide from it ”
For more information, visit  
http://tv  msnbc com  
Learn more at nbclatino com  WWW  WWW  Voters react to the live election results from Democracy Plaza at 30 Rockefeller Center.
NBC Latino broadened the scope of its election coverage to 
deliver stories that matter to Hispanic voters.
 26
CREATE MEDIA THAT MATTERS2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  We have the power, and 
the passion, to improve 
lives in meaningful ways 
through our media channels, 
programming, partnerships, 
and talent. When we 
combine the influence of 
our various assets with our 
viewers’ desire to better 
their world, we increase our 
impact exponentially and 
intensify momentum toward 
social change. 
ISSUE-CENTRIC ENTERTAINMENT 
PROGRAMMING
NBCUniversal programming reaches 
millions of people each day, giving us an 
unprecedented opportunity to advance 
conversations about social issues  
Hundreds of our shows and storylines 
explore complex issues that affect our 
viewers’ lives and move them to think 
about difficult subjects from more than 
one perspective  
For example, E! News  host Giuliana 
Rancic shared her personal experience 
with infertility with viewers on the 
Style Network show Giuliana and Bill.  
Together with her husband, Giuliana 
offered a candid, real-world perspective 
on an experience that many face, but 
few talk about publicly   Thousands of 
viewers followed her ongoing story, 
responding with messages of support 
and encouragement, and cheering the 
birth of her baby boy in August 2012 
NBCUniversal writers also used 
the power of our entertainment 
programming to develop honest, BRINGING SOCIAL ISSUES 
TO THE FOREFRONT
authentic storylines that connected 
with viewers on a deeply personal level  
On Parenthood , Kristina Braverman 
(played by Monica Potter) dealt with 
a breast cancer diagnosis throughout 
the 2012 season, taking viewers 
along with her on the emotional 
roller coaster from diagnosis through 
treatment to remission and recovery   
Other Parenthood  episodes explored 
sensitivities about race, the experiences 
of returning veterans, and life with a 
child who has autism 
On the science-fiction drama series 
Revolution , which explored the 
struggles of surviving in a world 
without power, we partnered with The 
Nature Conservancy and our own 
Green is Universal initiative to shine a 
spotlight on resource conservation  We 
launched the partnership with a Nature 
Conservancy blog post by Executive 
Producer Eric Kripke, which offered 10 energy-saving tips  Throughout 
the season, several episodes with 
environmental themes included verbal 
or visual cues connected to content 
on The Nature Conservancy’s blog  
Viewers could then dig deeper into 
issues such as water or energy use on 
The Nature Conservancy’s website and 
social media  For example, after a blog 
post that delved into the connection 
between the electrical grid and a clean 
water supply, a Revolution  episode 
featured a scene in which one of the 
characters filled a bottle with clean 
water at a pump 
We also helped viewers learn how 
to fight obesity and live healthier 
lifestyles with the nutrition and exercise 
information in each episode of The 
Biggest Loser.
Episodes of NBC’s Parenthood explored deeply personal issues such as breast cancer, autism, and 
racial sensitivities. 27
CREATE MEDIA THAT MATTERS2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
BRINGING SOCIAL ISSUES TO THE FOREFRONT
SPROUT’S KINDNESS COUNTS
Sprout is our 24-hour preschool 
television channel that parents and kids 
share together   Reaching more than 55 
million homes, Sprout is the No  1 on-
demand service for younger children — 
its programming helps parents reinforce 
good habits and gives kids the power to 
make smart, thoughtful choices every day   
Sprout’s Kindness Counts campaign, now 
in its second year, teaches preschoolers 
about empathy and the importance of 
kindness  The campaign encourages 
kids to perform small acts of kindness 
and share their stories on the Kindness 
Counts website  In 2012, Kindness Counts 
focused on the importance of being 
kind to yourself, showing preschoolers 
and their families how an active lifestyle 
and smart food choices can add up to 
healthier living  Sprout partnered with 
First Lady Michelle Obama’s Let’s Move 
initiative, the American Heart Association, 
and the Learning Care Group to make 
the campaign fun and informative for 
kids, parents, and caregivers  It included 
a series of public service announcements 
(PSAs) featuring Big Bird, Ann Curry, Brian 
Williams, and other NBCUniversal stars; 
digital and social media components; 
programming tie-ins; and local extensions  
Sprout also developed a mobile app 
that gives families 10 health challenges 
to complete together, and then presents 
digital rewards for their success  The 
award-winning Sprout Family Challenge 
app includes social media features to 
let families share their experiences on 
Facebook and Twitter   Kids and their 
families have completed more than 13,500 
challenges and recorded more than 
115,000 kind acts as part of the campaign 
To learn more, visit www  sproutonline 
com/kindness-counts   THE MORE YOU KNOW
Our long-standing public service 
campaign The More You Know offers 
an antidote to the often overwhelming 
amount of social messaging in the 
media landscape  Our strategy: Give 
viewers small, concrete, manageable 
steps that can set realistic change 
in motion  The campaign’s widely 
recognized PSAs focus on the core 
areas of education, diversity, health, 
and the environment 
The PSAs feature NBCUniversal 
celebrity role models who provide easy-
to-use information about important 
social issues, moving audiences beyond 
awareness and inspiring them to act  
This multiplatform campaign includes 
on-air and online content as well as 
community outreach components  The More You Know partners with 
leading nonprofits and government 
agencies to ensure we deliver the most 
credible, useful, timely information 
possible  Last year, the campaign 
featured additional PSAs leading up to 
the 2012 election, with celebrities such 
as NBC Nightly News  anchor Brian 
Williams and Community  star Yvette 
Nicole Brown encouraging Americans  
to register to vote and make their  
voices heard  
To learn more and view  
The More You Know spots, visit  
www  themoreyouknow  com   First Lady Michelle Obama gets playful on Sprout, Comcast’s 24-hour preschool television channel, 
as part of the Kindness Counts campaign.
WWW  
 28
CREATE MEDIA THAT MATTERS2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  CHARACTERS UNITE
In 2012, USA Network, NBCUniversal’s 
top-rated cable network, significantly 
expanded its Characters Unite public 
service campaign to fight hate and 
discrimination, and promote tolerance and 
respect  The year-round campaign grew 
to include more original programming and 
PSAs, digital content, and community 
events across the country   
As part of Characters Unite, USA 
Network launched its “I Won’t Stand 
For…” initiative to drive home the 
message that anyone, anywhere can 
combat discrimination in all its forms — 
including racism, religious intolerance, 
bullying, and hate crimes  The effort 
featured PSAs and an interactive 
microsite where people could post their 
own videos sharing which form of hate 
they won’t stand for   Consumers and 
employees could also join the movement 
by stamping their own “I Won’t Stand 
For…” T-shirts at on-the-ground 
events in various cities and at the NBC 
Experience Store in New York City   
USA also extended its reach through new 
endeavors in film, engaging a broader 
audience with stories of real people 
fighting discrimination  The network 
forged a partnership with the National 
Football League (NFL) to create a 
documentary in which NFL athletes share 
their personal journeys of overcoming 
prejudice and discrimination  The network 
also launched the new Characters Unite 
Quarterly Film Series, which addresses 
social injustice and uses the power of 
storytelling to spark dialogue, open 
minds, and inspire progress on important 
civil and human rights issues 
Additionally, USA expanded its 
Characters Unite Awards program, 
which provides $5,000 grants to local 
community heroes, recognizing their BRINGING SOCIAL ISSUES TO THE FOREFRONT
extraordinary efforts to create positive 
change in their communities  USA 
and its affiliate partners honored 10 
winners on air, online, and at hometown 
ceremonies 
For more information, visit  
www  charactersunite com   
EDUCATION NATION
NBC News created Education Nation 
in 2010 to elevate and invigorate the 
national conversation about public 
education in America  Education Nation 
produces multimedia stories featuring  
innovative solutions being implemented 
in schools and communities around the 
country, with the goal of inspiring others 
to adopt and build upon these ideas  
Through multimedia storytelling and in-
depth reporting, Education Nation allows 
us to showcase the most effective 
solutions improving education today   
For example, a story about Geddes 
Elementary School in California shows 
how bilingual education at an early 
age can lead to improved outcomes in language arts and math  A story about 
the Carpe Diem charter school in Arizona 
reveals how technology can not only 
supplement, but transform classroom 
education  
Educators, policymakers, and parents 
have responded positively, participating 
in an annual Education Nation Summit, 
joining the conversation online, and 
moving it forward through their own 
social networks  Education Nation 
continues to spark solution-focused 
dialogue about the state of education in 
America, exploring real-world success 
stories to propel positive change for 
more students 
For more information, visit  
www  educationnation com  
A young girl stamps an anti-bullying message on her T-shirt as part of USA Network's “I Won't Stand 
For...” initiative combating discrimination in all its forms.
WWW  WWW  $250  
million
Comcast and  
NBCUniversal  
provided about $250 million in airtime  
for public service announcements.  29
CREATE MEDIA THAT MATTERS2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
COMCAST NEWSMAKERS
We go beyond broadcasting national 
and world news to inform viewers about 
events and issues closer to home  Our 
unique local news platform, Comcast 
Newsmakers, gives our audiences 
deeper insights and meaningful  
context for what’s happening in their 
own backyards  
In informative, five-minute segments, 
Comcast Newsmakers features 
interviews with local, state, and federal 
officials, as well as civic leaders who 
make an impact in communities across 
the country   The on-air, online, and on-
demand programming zeroes in on local 
concerns, but also covers issues that are 
national in scope  
We produce a national edition in 
Washington, D C , and local versions in 
25 states  Last year, the national edition 
featured 67 interviews with members of 
Congress, and 46 interviews highlighting 
diversity-focused and nonprofit 
organizations  
For more information, visit  
www  comcastnewsmakers com  
#26ACTS OF KINDNESS CAMPAIGN
After the December 2012 school 
shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, 
NBC News correspondent Ann Curry 
found a way to generate goodness from 
grief with a simple idea: What if we all 
committed an act of kindness to honor 
each victim of the shooting? What began 
with a single tweet quickly swelled into a 
wave of compassion, with people across 
the country donating food, trees, toys, BRINGING SOCIAL ISSUES TO THE FOREFRONT
and money; anonymously picking up 
dinner tabs or buying gas for strangers; 
and pitching in to clean up beaches, 
parks, and neighborhoods  The #26Acts 
of Kindness movement went viral 
immediately, with participants tweeting 
about their kind acts, encouraging 
others to join, and sharing the healing 
power of goodwill after such a painful 
national tragedy   The effort has garnered 
more than 1 2 million page views on 
NBCNews com , more than 101,000 
Facebook likes, and coverage from 
national media outlets including USA 
TODAY, The Associated Press, and The 
Huffington Post.Marc Morial (right), President and CEO of the National Urban League, and Robert Traynham, host of 
Comcast Newsmakers, discuss how voter ID laws are affecting inner-city voters.
WWW  
 30
CREATE MEDIA THAT MATTERS2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  A scene from “Philly in Focus,” one of six pilot programs supporting locally generated community 
content through Comcast’s Project Open Voice.BRINGING SOCIAL ISSUES TO THE FOREFRONT
DAILYCANDY: START SMALL,  
GO BIG
DailyCandy is the premier online 
destination for insider deals and 
discoveries from small businesses 
around the country, reaching more than 
6 million online readers  With its Start 
Small, Go Big initiative, DailyCandy 
capitalizes on its widespread influence 
to catapult startups forward, increasing 
exposure, website traffic, media interest, 
and sales for new small businesses  
The strength of DailyCandy’s brand had  
an impact on all 18 finalists in the 2012 
Start Small, Go Big contest, boosting 
sales and awareness  The six winners 
— selected by DailyCandy’s editors and 
more than 156,000 votes from readers — 
received one-on-one mentoring sessions 
with industry leaders in fashion, food 
and drink, health and beauty, home 
furnishing, and the digital and technology 
sectors  They also received DailyCandy’s 
endorsement on its various digital 
platforms, including social networks, a 
website, a mobile app, and e-newsletters 
that engage some of the most loyal 
readers in the digital community   
DailyCandy’s Start Small, Go Big webpage 
offers small-business owners insights, tips, 
and resources to support them as they get 
their businesses off the ground  
To learn more, visit  
dailycandy  com/startsmallgobig  PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND 
GOVERNMENTAL PROGRAMMING
We’re committed to providing our 
audiences with locally generated content 
that’s relevant to their lives, and we’re 
uniquely positioned to provide this 
content in new ways, including On 
Demand and online  Our pilot program 
Project Open Voice hosts public, 
educational, governmental (PEG), and 
other local programming, and delivers 
it in ways that are more interactive and 
relevant to today’s audiences  
Comcast worked with community and 
PEG leaders in six pilot communities 
across the country to develop unique 
local brands for the new program  We 
engaged nearly 300 organizations and established a social media network of 
more than 2 5 million users as part of 
the project  As we continue to build the 
Project Open Voice brands, we provide 
ongoing support through community and 
public relations, content coordination, 
and multiplatform marketing 
WWW  
16%
Increase in our  
On Demand 
programming for  
diverse audiences  
compared with 2011. More  
than 100%
Total increase in diverse 
On Demand and online 
programming over the last 
two years.About 2,000
Combined hours of 
diverse On Demand and 
online programming 
available in 2012.
 MISSING KIDS ON DEMAND
Comcast’s Missing Kids On Demand 
initiative uses our vast network to 
spread the word as broadly as possible 
when a child goes missing  We partner 
with the National Center for Missing 
and Exploited Children® on the initiative, 
which offered viewers across the country 
on-demand access to 120 profiles of 
missing kids in 2012  31
2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Everything we do is geared toward helping people. We focus our energies on helping our 
employees and our millions of customers, viewers, and audiences learn, grow, and realize 
their potential. This impulse is more than a value, and greater than a principle. It is a daily 
measure of our success. Seizing the countless opportunities, Comcast and NBCUniversal 
bring out the best in people to move our business forward. It creates a vibrant workplace 
and spurs innovation. It empowers individuals and strengthens communities. Above all, it  
is core to how we make a real and lasting difference. 
Our commitment begins with our 
employees, nearly 130,000 strong  We 
support them with an array of benefits 
and programs that cultivate physical 
and mental health, encourage personal 
development, honor families, and 
contribute to their financial security   
Our aim is to provide a workplace that 
fosters excellence, both individually 
and collectively, while opening 
doors to experiences that enrich our 
employees’ lives 
We believe promoting an environment 
that champions a wide range of 
backgrounds, views, and choices is 
essential to helping our people — and 
our companies — thrive  Having a 
diverse workforce challenges us to 
widen our perspective and compels us to evolve  Bringing together people 
from all walks of life deepens insight and 
fuels innovation  And making diversity a 
cornerstone of our business shapes how 
we collaborate and engage with others  
This point is particularly important, given 
that our customers and audiences 
span the United States and beyond  
Our passion is creating and delivering 
exceptional content through a spectrum 
of media and technology   Fulfilling that 
passion requires understanding who 
we’re reaching out to and what is most 
important to them — and why   
It’s not enough to have the platforms 
and channels to deliver content to 
hundreds of millions of people  We 
must reach them with information, entertainment, and ideas that are 
meaningful and relevant, expressed in 
ways that resonate as authentic and true  
As a result, we invest in networks and 
create programming that elevates crucial 
but overlooked issues to the mainstream  
We believe that giving marginalized 
voices forums to be heard and providing 
under-represented groups opportunities 
for expression are powerful ways to 
advance positive change  
Helping others thrive is vital to our 
strategy — and woven throughout our 
business  Just as nurturing the success 
of our employees strengthens Comcast 
and NBCUniversal, providing diverse 
content advances our larger mission of 
entertaining, educating, and inspiring the 
millions of individuals we reach every day   BRINGING 
OUT THE 
BEST IN 
PEOPLE 32
2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION PROGRESS REPORT 
Communities thrive when they embrace different backgrounds, perspectives, and 
experiences. Likewise, Comcast and NBCUniversal become stronger and more 
innovative as we grow more diverse. We champion diversity among our employees, in 
our programming and films, across our work with suppliers and business partners, in 
our community investments, and as a cornerstone of our corporate governance.PROMOTE 
DIVERSITY AND 
INCLUSION 33
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
“There’s a great 
value in diversity  
in general, but 
especially gender 
diversity.”
—Michelle BeadleENRICHING THE 
CONVERSATION IN 
SPORTS BROADCASTING
Michelle Beadle didn’t set out to become 
an inspiration for women who want to 
break into sports broadcasting  In fact, 
broadcasting wasn’t even on her radar 
when she first stepped in front of a camera 
as an intern for the San Antonio Spurs  
“The show was called Coyote Clubhouse, 
and it was one of those Saturday morning 
programs geared toward children,” she 
recalls  “They sent me to do a piece on 
how to take care of your family pet  I was 
so bad  It was just awkward television  
Fortunately, they gave me another 
chance, and I realized the second time 
that this is a really fun way to pay rent for 
the rest of my life ”
Now, more than a decade later, Michelle 
is one of the leading female voices on 
the NBC Sports Network and other NBC 
properties, bringing her sharp wit and 
conversational style to a variety of network 
programs  She was a key member of the 
2012 London Olympics broadcast team, 
is a correspondent on Access Hollywood, 
and regularly appears on TODAY   
Although Michelle doesn’t take herself 
too seriously, she is adamant about the 
importance of creating opportunities for 
women in the male-dominated sports 
broadcasting field  She built much of 
her reputation co-hosting sports opinion 
shows, effectively disproving the notion 
that only men can talk authoritatively 
about sports 
“There’s a great value in diversity in 
general, but especially gender diversity,” she says  “If you watch sports at a bar 
with a group of friends — both men and 
women — every one of us is going to 
take something different out of the game  
When you bring in more opinions and 
perspectives, it makes the discussion 
that much more enriching ”
One of Michelle’s biggest  
strengths is her versatility   She’s spent 
time as a sideline reporter, show host, 
and studio anchor, and she 
advises young women just 
entering the field to think 
big  “It seems like the entry 
point into sports for women is 
sideline reporting,” she says  
“But I think we’re moving past 
that  Now we have women 
in the front offices of sports 
teams, we have women 
talking about sports, we  
have women hosting shows 
and calling games  It’s really 
great to see ” 
She credits NBC Sports 
with creating these sorts of 
opportunities for women  Michelle cites 
not only her own contributions, but also 
those of such NBC broadcasters as  
NBC Sunday Night Football reporter 
Michele Tafoya, longtime tennis analyst 
and former pro Mary Carillo, and 
Rebecca Lowe, who was recently 
hired as the U S -based studio host of 
NBC’s Barclays Premier League soccer 
coverage  “Rebecca’s extremely well-
respected in the field,” Michelle says  
“And the fact that a woman is going to be the face of Barclays Premier League 
soccer, which is an enormous global 
property, is just awesome ” 
“NBC gets it,” Michelle continues  “You 
want to find the strongest, most 
opinionated, most well-versed people 
when launching a network — whether 
they’re male or female  If they’re doing 
their jobs and doing their jobs right, 
people will connect with them and the 
shows will be successful ”Michelle Beadle on the set. 34
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  “We used to have that 
back in the day... 
where people could 
say, ‘Wow, this show 
is for us, by us.’ I 
want to drive African 
American families 
back to that.”
—Earvin “Magic” Johnson
The roar of an approving crowd is nothing 
new to Earvin “Magic” Johnson  From 
his days as an All-Star point guard for the 
Los Angeles Lakers, to his many public 
appearances today, the NBA legend, 
entrepreneur, and philanthropist has 
always electrified audiences 
But as the Chairman and CEO of ASPiRE — 
a television network launched on Comcast 
Cable in June 2012 to deliver enlightening, 
entertaining, and positive programming 
to African American families — Earvin 
is hoping for a slightly different kind of 
reaction  One that starts in people’s homes 
and grows to inspire whole communities  
And one that takes him back to his 
childhood in Lansing, Michigan, when 
his parents and six siblings would gather 
around the television for family time 
“We watched TV as a family,” Earvin says  
“To hear the laughter of 10 people in a 
house was great  I want to take us back 
to those days by providing family-driven 
content that will make people socialize as 
families again ”
Such is the inspiration behind ASPiRE, 
which grew out of an extensive search by 
Comcast for new, independent networks 
owned by and targeted toward minority 
audiences  ASPiRE is delivered to 15 
million homes nationwide, and Comcast 
offers the network in nearly 9 million 
homes and across 12 of the top 25 African 
American markets, including Chicago, 
Philadelphia, Washington, D C , and Atlanta 
The network offers movies, lifestyle 
coverage, documentaries, music, comedy, 
arts, and inspirational programming that 
African American families can identify with ASPiRE is the first and only national cable 
network certified as a Minority Business 
Enterprise by the National Minority 
Supplier Development Council  Through 
its original content, ASPiRE has provided 
opportunities and a platform for nearly 
400 minority individuals and 200 women  
The network provides opportunities for 
new African American trendsetters and 
tastemakers to display their creative 
talents, and these opportunities are 
growing as ASPiRE works to reach 30 
million homes in the coming years 
No stranger to achieving great things 
alongside teammates, Earvin says 
ASPiRE’s partnership with Comcast has 
been nothing short of “a blessing ”
“You pray for great partnerships — you 
really do,” he says  “You want to have a 
partner that gets it  You want to have the 
same values, and when you think diversity 
and inclusion, Comcast is at the top ”
Learn more about ASPiRE at  
www  aspire tv  
ASPiRE NETWORK 
SEEKS TO INSPIRE
and talk about around the kitchen table, in 
the office, or at the salon, says Earvin  
“We used to have that back in the day,” 
he says, mentioning legendary stars Bill 
Cosby, Diahann Carroll, and Flip Wilson  
“You had different shows where people 
could say, ‘Wow, this show is for us, by us ’ 
I want to drive African American families 
back to that ”
In Comcast, Earvin found a partner 
that not only shares his vision, but also 
has the platform to help him execute it  
ASPiRE’s original programming includes 
ABFF Independent,  a film showcase of 
shorts, features, and documentaries by 
independent African American filmmakers; 
The Root 100,  hosted by CNN’s Suzanne 
Malveaux; and  I ASPiRE profiles, which 
spotlight the next generation of African 
Americans, including a surfer, race car 
drivers, spoken-word poets, business 
school students, and a high school  
sports journalist  
“I think people will walk away saying,  
‘That’s my girl!’” Earvin says  “Or, ‘Hey,  
that guy, I want to be like him’ — just  
like I did when I was growing up ”
Earvin and network General Manager 
Paul Butler have high hopes for ASPiRE, 
including creating a growing cast of role 
models behind the camera  The network’s 
community outreach spans scholarships, 
internships, and educational programs  
The network is already involved in 
African American community events and 
partnerships with organizations such as 
the American Black Film Festival (ABFF), 
National Association of Black Journalists, 
and the Circle of Sisters  WWW   35
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Our business moves fast and evolves constantly. Seeking 
diverse suppliers that can help us find smart ways to source 
our business needs is good for us and our suppliers alike. The 
company’s spending with diverse Tier I and Tier II suppliers —  
including minority-, woman-, and veteran-owned business 
enterprises — exceeded $1 billion in 2012. WORKING WITH  
DIVERSE SUPPLIERS
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY  
PROGRAM
Our Supplier Diversity Program is 
designed to promote, increase, and 
improve the participation of diverse 
businesses within our supply chain  
It includes our primary, or Tier I, 
suppliers as well as secondary vendors 
at the Tier II (subcontracting) level  
This program provides the company 
with reliable resources, creates jobs, 
strengthens our purchasing power, and 
builds value for our shareholders  
In 2012, 10 1% of our total applicable 
procurement spend was with diverse 
suppliers  Several organizations recognized our 
Supplier Diversity Program in 2012, 
among them: 
• The National Veteran-Owned Business 
Association named Comcast one of 
the 10 Best U S  Corporations for 
Veteran-Owned Businesses 
• The Rocky Mountain Minority Supplier 
Development Council recognized 
Comcast as its Corporate Partner of 
the Year   
• The Greater Los Angeles African 
American Chamber of Commerce 
(GLAAACC) named NBCUniversal 
Corporation of the Year   
See a full list of our awards and 
recognition on page 77 CRITERIA
We aim to provide equal access and 
opportunity to all suppliers, and to 
facilitate nondiscriminatory business 
relationships with diverse firms 
Companies can qualify as diverse 
suppliers or vendors if they belong to 
one of the following categories: 
• Minority Business Enterprise 
• Women Business Enterprise 
• Veteran Business Enterprise 
• Service Disabled Veteran Business 
Enterprise 
• Historically Underutilized Business 
Enterprise 
Those interested in doing business 
with Comcast and NBCUniversal 
should be financially sound, committed 
to service and responsiveness, and 
able to deliver quality products or 
services  Suppliers and vendors also 
should have sufficient capacity to 
serve existing and new business  
We encourage both established and 
emerging suppliers to register with 
our company   We look for suppliers 
whose products or services will help 
our company improve daily operations 
and quality while reducing costs  When 
contracting opportunities become 
available, we use our databases to 
identify potential vendors  
For more information, visit  
http://corporate comcast com/  
our-values/diversity-inclusion  
WWW   36
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  WORKING WITH DIVERSE SUPPLIERS
PARTNERSHIPS, OUTREACH,  
AND EVENTS
Consistent outreach to diverse 
businesses helps us forge 
relationships and enhance our  
supply chain  We are proud to 
support and collaborate with diverse 
chambers of commerce and business 
organizations throughout the country   
We actively target outreach and 
capacity-building events at the 
national, regional, and local levels, and 
we attended more than 100 supplier 
diversity events in 2012  Our supplier 
diversity partners include:
• National Minority Supplier 
Development Council (NMSDC)
• National Black Chamber of 
Commerce (NBCC)
• US Pan Asian American Chamber  
of Commerce (USPAACC)
• United States Hispanic Chamber of 
Commerce (USHCC)
• National Veteran-Owned Business 
Association (NaVOBA)
• Women’s Business Enterprise 
National Council (WBENC)
• National Center for American Indian 
Enterprise Development (NCAIED)
• National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of 
Commerce (NGLCC)
• The Walter Kaitz Foundation 
In December 2012, Comcast also 
became a Corporate Member of the  
US Business Leadership Network  
(USBLN) — a national nonprofit, 
non-partisan, business-to-business 
network that promotes workplaces, 
marketplaces, and supply chains 
inclusive of people with disabilities At the national level, our supplier 
diversity–related outreach efforts were 
broad and strong: 
• Comcast and NBCUniversal 
participated in the NCAIED Reservation 
Economic Summit & American Indian 
Business Trade Fair in Las Vegas  
• Comcast and NBCUniversal were 
Corporate Co-Chairs of the USPAACC 
Education Foundation’s 27th 
Anniversary CelebrAsian Business 
Opportunity Conference in Bethesda  
• Comcast participated in WBENC’s 
National Conference & Business Fair in 
Orlando  
• Comcast attended NBCC’s 20th 
Annual Convention in Atlanta  
• Comcast and NBCUniversal sponsored 
and actively participated in the 
NGLCC’s Annual Convention  
in Chicago  
• Comcast and NBCUniversal sponsored 
and participated in the USHCC’s 33rd 
Annual Convention & Business Expo in 
Los Angeles 
• Comcast and NBCUniversal were 
active participants at the NMSDC’s 
Conference and Business Opportunity 
Fair in Denver   
• Comcast’s legal team continues to 
participate in the National Association 
of Minority & Women Owned Law 
Firms (NAMWOLF), a nonprofit trade 
association, as well as Inclusion 
Initiative conferences and business 
opportunity fairs  
• NBCUniversal hosted Veterans 
Supplier Business Fairs in Los Angeles, 
Miami, and Orlando, which provided 
veterans exclusive access to key 
decision makers and executives within 
the NBCUniversal family of businesses More than three-quarters of our outreach 
events occurred at the local and regional 
levels  For example, Comcast participated 
in the Rocky Mountain Minority Supplier 
Development Council’s Annual Growth 
Through Partnership Conference in Denver   
The Rocky Mountain organization is one 
of 36 regional councils of the National 
Minority Supplier Development Council  
Its mission is to drive minority business 
enterprise growth by creating relationships 
between minority-owned businesses and 
corporations, government, academic 
entities, and others  
In partnership with other cable operators, 
we also sponsored the second annual 
California Cable Supplier Diversity 
Fair  This forum is designed for diverse 
suppliers and large corporations to 
better understand each other’s needs 
and to foster business relationships  
Comcast participated in one-on-one 
“matchmaking sessions” with prospective 
vendors in such procurement areas 
as network construction, fiber optic 
splice equipment, customer premises 
equipment recovery, collection services, 
and electrical services  100+  
events
We actively target 
outreach and 
capacity-building 
events at the 
national, regional, and local levels, 
and we attended more than 100 
supplier diversity events in 2012. 37
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  WORKING WITH DIVERSE SUPPLIERS
DIVERSITY AMONG 
SUBCONTRACTORS 
Our Tier II supplier program creates 
opportunities for smaller, diverse 
vendors to work with us indirectly as 
subcontractors to our prime suppliers  
For 2012, the company’s prime 
suppliers reported $140 million in 
diverse Tier II spending  We actively 
encourage our prime suppliers to 
subcontract with diverse vendors  We 
also strongly encourage joint ventures 
and partnerships between prime 
suppliers and diverse subcontractors  
Comcast’s standard request for 
proposal language encourages Tier II 
diversity, and we use this as a criterion 
in purchasing decisions  
In this way, our Supplier Diversity 
Program offers every business — 
regardless of its ownership — an 
opportunity to bid for our business  We 
are committed to doing more business 
with prime vendors that provide us data 
about their subcontracting partnerships, 
expanding our business with diverse 
vendors, and eliminating some of the 
barriers they face 
Comcast maintains a web-based 
database and registration site for 
diverse suppliers to use in doing 
business with us  The system helps 
us keep a consolidated list of diverse-
owned suppliers across multiple 
industries and geographic locations 
BUILDING CAPACITY: BOARD 
AND ADVISORY COUNCIL 
PARTICIPATION
Comcast and NBCUniversal employees 
participate on boards and in programs 
that assist with the growth of diverse business enterprises  Our board and 
advisory council participation includes 
the following:
• Comcast is a member of the OCA — 
Asian Pacific American Advocates’ 
Business Advisory Council  
• Members of Comcast and 
NBCUniversal’s supplier diversity 
teams participate on the USHCC’s 
Procurement Corporate Advisory 
Board, and USPAACC’s Corporate 
Brain Trust  
• In 2012, NBCUniversal became a 
corporate member of GLAAACC  
and the Asian Business Association-
Los Angeles 
• Ajamu Johnson, Comcast  
Cable’s Senior Director of Supplier 
Diversity, serves on the advisory 
boards for the Urban League 
Entrepreneurship Center of 
Philadelphia and NaVOBA  Another 
member of Comcast’s procurement 
team serves on the New Jersey Board 
of Public Utilities Supplier Diversity 
Development Council 
• Christine Simmons, NBCUniversal’s 
Director of Supplier Diversity, sits on the Board of Directors of the GLAAACC 
and serves on the University of 
Southern California Supplier Diversity 
Advisory Council, the NGLCC’s 
Procurement Council and Corporate 
Advisory Council, and the American 
Indian Chamber of Commerce of 
California’s Advisory Council  
• Angela Harris, NBCUniversal’s 
Manager of Supplier Diversity,  
serves as a committee member of 
the New York & New Jersey Minority 
Supplier Development Council, the 
NGLCC’s Procurement Council and 
Corporate Advisory Council, and is  
an active member of the National 
Association for Multi-Ethnicity in 
Communications (NAMIC)  
• Thomas Nathan, Senior Vice 
President and Senior Deputy  
General Counsel of Comcast 
Cable, is a member of NAMWOLF’s 
Advisory Council  
• Doug Gaston, Senior Vice President 
and General Counsel of Comcast 
Cable, serves on the Advisory Board 
of the Philadelphia Bar Association’s 
Office of Diversity   10 .1%
In 2012, 10.1% of  
Comcast and 
NBCUniversal’s 
combined total applicable 
procurement spend was 
with diverse suppliers.More than  
$1 billion
Combined, our spending in 
2012 with diverse Tier I and 
Tier II suppliers, including 
minority-, woman-, and 
veteran-owned  businesses.   38
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  WORKING WITH DIVERSE SUPPLIERS
Our 2012 capacity-building activities 
included the following: 
• Each year, NBCUniversal meets with 
our four external Supplier Diversity 
Councils representing the African 
American, Asian American, Hispanic, 
and Native American business 
communities  NBCUniversal sourcing 
executives invite business owners, 
CEOs, and leaders of business 
development organizations that 
support each respective community   
The councils share best practices, 
foster partnerships, and provide open 
lines of communication between the 
company and the diverse business 
community  
• Members of Comcast and 
NBCUniversal’s legal teams  
attended NAMWOLF’s Atlanta 
meeting in October 2012 • Members of Comcast’s legal 
team attended the National Bar 
Association’s Commercial Law 
Section 25th Anniversary Corporate 
Counsel Conference in Miami, as well 
as a dinner hosted by the Coalition of 
Bar Associations of Color (CBAC) in 
Washington, D C  
BANKING PARTNERSHIPS
Our company has worked closely 
with the minority-owned banking 
community for more than 20 years  
These relationships with minority-
owned banks and investment firms 
offer tailored ways to meet our specific 
needs, such as lending through credit 
facilities, brokerage services for stock 
repurchases, bond underwriting, and 
banking and deposit arrangements For the ninth consecutive year, in 2012 
we arranged a major credit facility with 
10 minority-owned banks, including 
administrative and syndication agent 
United Bank of Philadelphia  Also, eight 
diverse banks participated in Comcast 
and NBCUniversal’s bond issuances 
in 2012  Combined, these banks 
underwrote $111 8 million in bonds, for 
which they received a fee  
LEGAL RESOURCES
Comcast is a founding member of the 
Inclusion Initiative, a collaborative effort 
of several companies to retain a greater 
number of diverse law firms  In 2012, 
Comcast and NBCUniversal spent more 
than $3 million with diverse law firms — 
more than double the amount spent in 
2011  Our legal teams are also focused 
on increasing the amount of business 
we do with female lawyers at majority-
owned firms 
AD SPEND
Together, Comcast and NBCUniversal 
increased spending with minority-owned 
media in 2012  Burrell Communications 
continued to serve as Comcast’s agency 
of record for African American creative, 
and Grupo Gallegos continued to 
provide support for Comcast’s Hispanic 
creative  We also work with Asian 
American–owned Ameredia 
 39
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  PROVIDING DIVERSE CONTENT
We develop and deliver 
exceptional content for all 
audiences. To do so, we  
must understand what’s 
important to the diverse 
viewers we’re engaging. 
Reflecting our audiences’ 
interests and addressing  
their needs are crucial to  
our ongoing success. 
LAUNCHING MINORITY-FOCUSED 
AND MINORITY-OWNED NETWORKS
In 2012, we launched two new, 
independent networks — BabyFirst 
Americas and ASPiRE — as part of a 
plan to significantly expand our ethnic 
and independent programming over  
the next eight years  These are  
the first of four new minority-owned  
and/or -operated independent networks 
launching to Comcast Cable customers 
between May 2012 and January 2014  
BabyFirst Americas, proposed by 
Constantino “Said” Schwarz and 
distributed in 19 Comcast markets, is 
a Hispanic-focused, English-language 
channel designed for children and their 
parents, emphasizing the importance 
of early development of verbal, math, 
and motor skills  We also launched the 
Spanish feed of BabyFirst Americas  
Developed in partnership with 
entrepreneur and NBA Hall of Famer 
Earvin “Magic” Johnson and GMC TV 
(now known as UP TV), ASPiRE delivers 
movies, documentaries, short films, music, 
comedy, visual and performing arts, and 
faith and inspirational programs to African 
American families  Read more about our 
partnership with ASPiRE  on page 34 See the BabyFirst Americas video at  
http://corporate comcast com/
csrvideo2012  
SUPPORTING DIVERSE TALENT  
AND ISSUES
We used our production expertise to 
create original programming in 2012 
that addressed important cultural issues 
and showcased talent from diverse 
backgrounds 
Black and Latino, an award-winning 
digital documentary produced 
by Spanish-language channel mun2, explored America’s evolving 
understanding of race and ethnicity   The 
documentary featured interviews with 
entertainers such as Soledad O’Brien 
(formerly of MSNBC), Christina Milian 
from The Voice,  and Tatyana Ali (who 
starred on The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air), 
among many others  mun2 won Best 
Web Series for Black and Latino at the 
annual Imagen Awards 
NBCUniversal offers several programs 
designed to develop and provide 
opportunities for diverse talent in 
television and film  Stand-Up NBC is 
an initiative to discover and develop 
BabyFirst Americas, an independent network that focuses on early childhood development, launched 
in 2012.
See the documentary  Black and Latino  
at http://www  mun2 tv/black-and-latino  
 40
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  DIVERSE PROGRAMMING 
We continue to strengthen and enrich 
our offering of diverse programming 
choices — expanding the distribution 
of diverse networks to millions of 
homes and featuring hundreds of 
video on demand (VOD) and online 
choices geared toward African 
American, Asian American, Hispanic, 
and other audiences  We remain 
strongly committed to the distribution 
of unaffiliated programming networks, 
which make up about six out of every 
seven networks carried by Comcast  
For our Hispanic viewers, we make 
Telemundo and mun2 programming 
available online on Comcast’s XFINITY 
TV portal as well as on the channels’ 
respective websites  Telemundo com  
offers about 60 programs, and  
mun2 tv  offers about 15 programs  For 
the first time in the network’s history, 
Telemundo offered live streaming of 
Olympic Games broadcast coverage comedians of diverse backgrounds  
In our Short Cuts Festival panel 
discussions, industry experts share their 
knowledge and expertise with a group of 
up-and-coming producers and directors  
We also stage the annual Advanced 
Improv Diversity Scholarship Showcase, 
a collaboration with Upright Citizens 
Brigade Theatre to promote diversity in 
the comedic arts  
Our Writers on the Verge program 
prepares talented employees from 
a variety of backgrounds for writing 
positions in television and film  
Participants learn how to develop 
exceptional scripts and pitch them to  
a production company  
Participants in the program also get 
advice on how to pitch themselves as 
television writers  They interact with 
people in the industry, from network 
executives to showrunners and agents, 
and receive valuable feedback on their 
work and pitch style 
In 2012, all eight Writers on the Verge 
participants went on to sign with an 
agent  Several of them also became 
writers for NBC primetime shows, 
including Community, Chicago Fire,  
and Deception. 
ENGAGING HISPANIC VIEWERS
In 2012, NBCUniversal launched 
nbclatino com , an English-language 
website targeted to U S -born and 
English-dominant Hispanic families 
featuring original reporting as well as 
news and lifestyle content from the 
company’s existing properties  Also, our 
networks E! and Telemundo partnered 
to distribute E! Latino, a new mobile app 
featuring Spanish-language versions of 
E! original series and news  The launch of 
the app is part of E!’s initiative to better 
serve the Hispanic population PROVIDING DIVERSE CONTENT
together with exclusive, digital-only 
content featuring Olympic events, 
news, and announcements  Plus, 
Telemundo subscribers could access 
more than 200 hours of digital 
video, including all Telemundo on-air 
broadcasts and live streaming of trials 
involving Hispanic athletes 
We featured special on-demand and 
online programming in celebration of 
2012’s Black History Month, Asian-
Pacific American Heritage Month, 
LGBT Pride Month, Native American 
Heritage Month, and National 
Hispanic Heritage Month  
Comcast also made several highly 
publicized launches of new local and 
public-interest content on our VOD and 
online platforms  Many of these public-
interest programming choices were 
also available online at xfinitytv  com NBCUniversal employees join in a creative session during Writers on the Verge, which hones 
participants ’ script-writing skills.
 41
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Other programming highlights in 2012 
included the following:
ASIAN AMERICAN PROGRAMMING
• Expanded carriage of Mnet in 
Philadelphia and Washington, D C 
• Featured 189 hours and 
approximately 200 programming 
choices through multiple VOD 
services geared toward Asian 
Americans, including Filipino On 
Demand, Bollywood Hits On Demand, 
Cinema Asian America, Kpop, and 
the FUNimation Channel 
• Announced an agreement with 
Crossings TV, an Asian-focused 
multicultural television broadcaster, 
to expand its distribution into 
Chicago, Seattle, and San Francisco 
AFRICAN AMERICAN PROGRAMMING
• Featured more than 75 hours of 
VOD programming that delivered 
more than 270 choices of television 
entertainment and music from various 
African American–oriented content 
providers, including BET, Hip Hop On 
Demand, TV One, and Black Cinema 
On Demand
• Announced the launch of xfinity  
com/celebrateblacktv  in January 
2013 as a one-stop portal to black 
entertainment content from a variety 
of sources
HISPANIC PROGRAMMING
• Launched XFINITY Latino, a suite 
of video products and services 
developed exclusively to serve 
Hispanic customers; XFINITY Latino 
delivered 10 new popular Hispanic 
channels and doubled Comcast’s 
Hispanic On Demand content on TV 
and online 
• Offered more than 700 hours of 
content and more than 1,100 
VOD programming choices on our Hispanic tier, including 135 choices 
from Telemundo and mun2
• Launched nbclatino com  to offer 
a mix of news, politics, lifestyle, 
perspectives, and more to U S -born 
and English-dominant Hispanics
• Launched iVillage Mujer de Hoy, the 
first female-focused site to feature 
Spanish and English stories on the 
same page
For more information, visit  http://
msnlatino telemundo com/mujer_de_hoy  
For more information, visit  
www  telemundo com  
For more information, visit  
www  mun2 tv  
AMPLIFYING THE VOICE OF THE  
LGBT COMMUNITY
Comcast and NBCUniversal are 
well respected and recognized as 
leaders in supporting the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) 
community through our partnerships 
with organizations such as the Gay & 
Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation 
(GLAAD)  As part of this commitment, 
we sponsored the 2012 GLAAD Media 
Awards in New York, Los Angeles, and 
San Francisco  These awards recognize 
and honor news and entertainment 
media for fair, accurate, and inclusive 
representations of the LGBT community  
We also supported participation in 
GLAAD Spirit Day, during which on-
air and behind-the-camera talent and 
employees wore purple to mark their 
support of the LGBT community   PROVIDING DIVERSE CONTENT
WWW  WWW  WWW   42
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  By embracing different backgrounds and perspectives, we 
deepen our knowledge and spur our creativity. Our goal is to 
create the most successful model of diversity and inclusion in 
our industry, and thanks to dedicated support from our entire 
organization, we are making significant progress.  PROMOTING DIVERSITY AND 
INCLUSION THROUGH GOVERNANCE
includes four nine-member Diversity 
Advisory Councils representing the 
interests of African Americans, Asian 
Americans, Hispanics, and women  
Representatives from other diverse 
groups, including Native Americans, 
veterans, people with disabilities, and 
members of the LGBT community also 
participate 
David L  Cohen, our Executive Vice 
President and Chief Diversity Officer, is 
1/3 
diverse
The Comcast Board 
of Directors is more 
than 1/3 diverse.
chairman of the JDC  With the guidance 
of our company leaders and this 
esteemed council, we made significant 
advances in our five focus areas in 2012  
INTERNAL DIVERSITY COUNCILS 
Comcast and NBCUniversal’s Internal 
Diversity Councils  (IDCs) are led by senior 
executives who provide guidance as 
we implement and sustain successful 
diversity and inclusion practices across 
the company   We meet regularly to 
discuss progress on diversity initiatives 
and to explore ways to strengthen our 
commitment to diversity and inclusion  
Members of our IDCs attend formal 
meetings of the JDC  In 2012, we ranked 
fifth on the Association of Diversity 
Councils’ Top 25 list — our fourth 
consecutive year of recognition 
2000 MEMORANDUM OF 
UNDERSTANDING
NBCUniversal continues to honor the 
diversity commitments contained in our 
2000 Memorandum of Understanding 
with a coalition of the following four 
organizations: the National Association 
for the Advancement of Colored People 
(NAACP), American Indians in Film and 
Television, Asian Pacific American Media 
Coalition, and National Latino Media Council David L. Cohen (center), Executive Vice President at Comcast Corporation, meets with Craig Robinson 
(right), Executive Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer, NBCUniversal; and Dan C. Jones (also known as 
SaSuWeh), former Chairman of the Ponca Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma.
EXTERNAL JOINT DIVERSITY 
ADVISORY COUNCIL 
Our external Joint Diversity Advisory 
Council (JDC) brings together national 
leaders in business, politics, and 
civil rights to provide advice to our 
senior executive teams regarding our 
development and implementation 
of diversity and inclusion initiatives 
in governance, workforce, supplier 
relationships, programming, and 
community investment  The JDC  43
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  SUPPORTING DIVERSITY  
THROUGH PARTNERSHIPS 
Along with providing financial support 
to these organizations, NBCUniversal 
also reviewed resumes and talent reels, 
and informally advised more than 700 
candidates from a diverse range of 
backgrounds 
EMMA L  . BOWEN FOUNDATION FOR 
MINORITY INTERESTS IN MEDIA
The Emma L  Bowen Foundation was 
created in 1989 to prepare minority 
youth for careers in the media industry   
In 2012, Comcast and NBCUniversal 
hosted more than 130 interns through 
our partnership with the foundation’s 
multiyear work/study program  The 
program helps minority high school and 
college students pursue their interests 
in media and communications  As of 
December 2012, nearly 40 former Emma 
Bowen interns were full-time employees 
of Comcast or NBCUniversal  Our 2012 
support included running a PSA to help 
promote the foundation’s mission of 
preparing minority youth for careers in 
the media industry, at a value of more 
than $1 million 
DENVER INDIAN CENTER
Our broad-based support of Native 
American organizations over the past 
year included funding programs that 
help local communities  For example, 
the Comcast Foundation awarded a 
$20,000 grant to the Denver Indian 
Center, which helps empower youth 
and families from a variety of tribal 
communities through self-determination, cultural identity, and education  We 
also aired a PSA throughout the state 
of Colorado to build awareness of the 
center and its cause 
Watch the Denver Indian Center video 
at http:// corporate comcast com/
csrvideo2012  
ADDITIONAL NATIONAL PARTNERS
• American Indian College Fund
• Asian American Justice Center
• Japanese American Citizens League
• League of United Latin American 
Citizens
• National Council of La Raza
• National Urban Indian Family Coalition
• National Urban League
• OCA — Asian Pacific American 
Advocates
See a full list of organizations that 
have received funding from our 
foundations on page 84 We work with strong organizations that share our dedication 
to championing the needs of diverse communities. Working 
together, we are making a positive impact in our communities, 
one person at a time.Nearly 40
As of December  
2012, nearly 40 
former interns from 
the Emma L. Bowen 
Foundation for Minority Interests in Media 
work as full-time employees of Comcast or 
NBCUniversal. EASTER SEALS
In 2012, we awarded a $250,000 Comcast 
Assistive Technology Grant to support 
Easter Seals programs that address the 
long-term technology needs of people with 
disabilities and special needs  Funding 
was distributed to seven local Easter 
Seals organizations to support a mobility 
development lab, an online learning 
community, school readiness programs, 
and several other initiatives for people with 
disabilities  We also aired a PSA in support 
of Make the First Five Count, an Easter 
Seals initiative highlighting the importance 
of the first five years of a child’s life  The 
PSA — which encourages parents to 
visit makethefirstfivecoun t org and take 
a free online screening that helps assess 
their child’s developmental milestones — 
helped increase screenings by nearly 10% 
from October through December 2012  
We welcomed Easter Seals as a national 
philanthropic partner in January 2013 
DIVERSITY IN JOURNALISM
We look for opportunities to support 
organizations that address issues of 
diversity within the media industry   In 
2012, Comcast and NBCUniversal 
provided major sponsorships for the 
annual convention of the National 
Association of Black Journalists as 
well as the UNITY convention  Held 
every four years, UNITY brings together 
the National Association of Hispanic 
Journalists, Asian American Journalists 
Association, National Lesbian & Gay 
Journalists Association, Native American 
Journalists Association, and the South 
Asian Journalists Association 
 44
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  long-standing ERGs have a membership 
of about 7,000, and in 2012 we added 
the Abilities Network@NBCUniversal 
to foster an environment that recruits, 
develops, and retains those who have 
varied abilities  Senior leaders serve  
as Executive Champions for each of  
the ERGs 
In April 2012, the NBCUniversal Office 
of Diversity & Inclusion hosted IMPACT, 
an internal two-day workshop for ERG 
leaders  Comcast leaders attended the 
event to learn about NBCUniversal’s 
best practices  This summit provided 
attendees with an update on the 
business, exposure to senior leaders, 
and opportunities to refine their 
professional skills  
Our Employee Resource Groups include:
• Abilities Network@Comcast
• Asian Pacific Alliance@Comcast
• Black Professional Alliance@Comcast
• OUT@Comcast (LGBT and Straight 
Allies)
• SomosComcástico (Hispanic)
• Veterans Network@Comcast
• Women’s Network@Comcast
• Young Professionals Network@
Comcast
• Abilities Network@NBCUniversal
• Asian Pacific Americans@
NBCUniversal
• Black Professional Alliance@
NBCUniversal
• OUT@NBCUniversal (LGBT and 
Straight Allies)
• UNIDOS@NBCUniversal (Hispanic)
• NBCUniversal Veterans Network
• Women’s Network@NBCUniversalWe are committed to recruiting, developing, retaining, and 
promoting top talent to continue to drive the success of 
our company. To identify and attract diverse employees, 
we use proven methods, including university relations, 
outreach and partnerships, executive search initiatives, 
and internship and scholarship programs. We focus on 
developing our diverse talent through leadership, mentoring, 
and sponsorship programs. And we recognize that employee 
engagement is essential to a productive workforce and a 
successful diversity and inclusion program. To enhance our 
inclusive workforce culture, we offer diversity awareness 
training, support Employee Resource Groups, and focus on 
retaining diverse employees.
collaboration — at all levels in our 
company  
In 2012, Comcast continued to build 
on our late-2011 launch of eight ERGs, 
growing membership to more than 
2,800 employees  NBCUniversal’s RECRUITING AND  
RETAINING DIVERSE TALENT
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
Comcast and NBCUniversal cultivate 
an array of Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs) that engage people at all levels 
of the organization  Our ERGs work to 
foster a culture of inclusion; help provide 
opportunities to identify, recruit, and  
promote diverse talent; and encourage 
 45
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
PARTNERSHIPS
We work collaboratively with strong 
organizations to recruit the best 
talent within our industry and to 
brand Comcast and NBCUniversal as 
employers of choice  These include:
• Association of Latino Professionals in 
Finance and Accounting
• National Association of Asian 
American Professionals
• National Association for Multi-
Ethnicity in Communications
• National Black MBA Association
• National Society of Black Engineers
• National Society of Hispanic MBAs
• Society of Women Engineers
• Society of Hispanic Professional 
Engineers 
SPONSORSHIP AND MENTORSHIP
Comcast’s Executive Leadership Career 
Advancement Program (ELCAP) is 
designed to accelerate career growth and increase retention for a diverse 
pipeline of leadership talent  ELCAP 
provides on-the-job development 
and exposure for employees with 
potential for a vice president role as a 
next career move through executive 
sponsorship, individual development 
plans, and group learning events 
In 2012, NBCUniversal launched 
TEAM NBCUniversal, a cross-
functional mentoring program that 
provides targeted development and 
exposure for rising leaders at pivotal 
career points  The program utilizes 
a team format to ensure that the 
participants develop relationships not 
only with executives outside of their 
businesses, but also with other peer 
leaders 
See a full list  of our workforce 
development training programs  on 
page 79 RECRUITING AND RETAINING DIVERSE TALENT
Comcast named 
Company  
of the  
Year  
in 2012 
by LATINA Style 
Comcast and NBCUniversal listed  
in Black Enterprise magazine’s 
40 Best  
Companies  
for Diversity 
in 2012
See a full list of  our awards and 
recognition  on page 77  46
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  TOTAL WORKFORCE BY GENDER
MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES BY GENDER
WOMEN 40 .3% MEN 59 .7%WOMEN 34 .7% MEN 65 .3%WOMEN  
42.1%
UNALLOCATED  
0.4%MEN  
 57.5%NEW HIRES BY GENDER NEW HIRES BY ETHNICITY
AFRICAN 
AMERICAN  
25.8%OTHER  
2.3%MULTIRACIAL  
3.4%
NATIVE 
AMERICAN  
1.0%ASIAN 
AMERICAN  
4.3%HISPANIC  
11.4%
WHITE  
51.9%DIVERSITY IN OUR WORKFORCE
In 2012, nearly 
40% of all full-
time U.S. 
employees at 
Comcast and 
NBCUniversal 
were people of 
color, and nearly 
35% were women. 
TOTAL WORKFORCE  
BY ETHNICITY
MANAGEMENT  
EMPLOYEES  
BY ETHNICITY
0.8%
0.6%21.3%
7.5%11.6%
8.8%0.5%
0.4%4.5%6.5%60%75.5%
1.3%
0.8%
AFRICAN  
AMERICANOTHER HISPANICNATIVE  
AMERICANASIAN 
AMERICANWHITE MULTIRACIAL
Throughout this section, “workforce” refers to full-time U.S. employees as of December 31, 2012. Combined percentage totals may exceed or fall under 
100% due to rounding.  47
PROMOTE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  DIVERSITY IN OUR WORKFORCE
MALE WORKFORCE  
BY ETHNICITY
FEMALE WORKFORCE  
BY ETHNICITYTOTAL WORKFORCE BY AGETOTAL RETENTION 84  .1%
MEN 86 . 1%
WOMEN 80  .4%ANNUAL RETENTION RATE BY GENDER
0.7%11.3%18.0%
0.5%4.5%53.8%
1.1% 0.8%11.8%27.4%
0.6%4.5% 1.6%63.4%ANNUAL RETENTION RATE BY ETHNICITY
TOTAL 
RETENTIONAFRICAN  
AMERICANHISPANIC NATIVE  
AMERICANASIAN 
AMERICANWHITE MULTIRACIAL84.1%79.7%83.3% 82.2% 83.5%86.2%
72.3%
AFRICAN  
AMERICANOTHER HISPANICNATIVE  
AMERICANASIAN 
AMERICANWHITE MULTIRACIALUNDER  
25
25–34
35–44
45–54
55–64
65+31.1%
30.6%
21.8%
10.2%
1 .2%5 .1%
Throughout this section, “workforce” refers to full-time U.S. employees as of December 31, 2012. Combined percentage totals may exceed or fall under 
100% due to rounding.  48
2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Our nearly 130,000 employees make Comcast and NBCUniversal what we are. Their 
ingenuity and passion infuse everything we do, from providing exceptional service and 
innovative technologies to creating insightful and entertaining content. We create an 
attractive work environment — and reward our employees’ dedication — by offering 
competitive pay, comprehensive benefits, professional training, and opportunities to 
build leadership skills.DEVELOP 
AND ENGAGE 
EMPLOYEES 49
DEVELOP AND ENGAGE EMPLOYEES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
BUILDING A CAREER 
FROM THE PAGE 
PROGRAM UP
Fresh out of college in 1988, John 
Wallace seized a rare chance to take 
part in NBCUniversal’s Page Program  
All of a sudden, John was on set for 
major television productions and leading 
visitors through NBC Studios at 30 
Rockefeller Plaza in New York City  
“That demanding experience as a young 
person has had a profound influence on 
my career,” says John, now President of 
Operations and Technical Services for 
NBCUniversal  He is responsible for TV, 
film, and digital operations — including 
in-studio and external productions, food 
services, and security   
The Page Program is our signature 
strategy for cultivating the next 
generation of leaders in media 
development and production  Talented 
college graduates from diverse 
backgrounds spend a year as 
ambassadors of NBCUniversal —  
working in 12-week rotational 
assignments that build their marketing, 
programming, and business skills 
“Pages truly are NBCUniversal’s face to 
the general public, show guests, and 
employees,” John says  “No other media 
company has a program like this, and 
it truly makes the experience of visiting 
NBCUniversal unique ”
When John started as a page, 
NBCUniversal was simply the NBC 
Television Network — but both the 
company and his role have since 
grown dramatically   “I was given 
the opportunity to move around the 
company and work in many different 
areas — including finance, affiliate 
relations, local sales management, 
production, and operations,” he recalls  
“Some of my most memorable 
assignments ranged from working as a 
production assistant on the 1988 Seoul 
Olympics and on the Studio 6A desk 
where Late Night with David Letterman 
was being taped,” John says  “To this 
day, as I walk through the studios, those 
memories come rushing back as if they 
were yesterday  ”
Many media stars with household 
names — including Regis Philbin, Eva 
Marie Saint, Willard Scott, Kate Jackson, 
and Ted Koppel — started their careers 
as NBC pages  “Our goal is to develop 
young individuals into the leaders of 
the future, using the opportunity of 
unparalleled, early access to the media 
industry as our tool,” John says With its admission rate of only 2%, 
the Page Program creates a pipeline 
of well-qualified, connected talent for 
us to work with  Based on the unique 
experience pages acquire, we place 
75% of our program participants 
directly into full-time positions  
“Being a page taught me how important 
relationships are in business,” John 
adds  “But even more than that, it’s the 
importance of hard work that I’ve taken 
with me ”
John now uses his leadership position 
to help today’s pages along — another 
instance of the camaraderie he built 
over the course of that formative year   
“I am very proud to say that I worked as 
a page,” John concludes, “and having 
gone through the program, I never lose 
sight of where I began ”“Being a page  
taught me how 
important 
relationships  
are in business.  
But even more  
than that, it’s the 
importance  
of hard work that 
I’ve taken with me.”
—John Wallace
NBCUniversal’s Page Program gives college 
graduates a yearlong opportunity to learn our 
business from the inside out. 50
DEVELOP AND ENGAGE EMPLOYEES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Military veterans and 
reservists returning to civilian 
work offer employers far 
more than just the technical 
skills they developed in 
the service. “These people 
come to us with a complete 
set of talents: individual 
responsibility, discipline, 
leadership, the ability to 
motivate large groups,”  
says Will Baas, Executive 
Director of Talent Acquisition 
at Comcast. “From the 
payment center to the C-suite, 
veterans are a critical part of 
our workforce.”
Comcast and NBCUniversal have 
long recognized that veteran hires 
bring exceptional strengths to our 
business  We actively recruit prospective 
employees with military backgrounds, 
and we provide an array of networking 
and professional development resources 
to help them succeed 
As a Commander in his 14th year 
with the U S  Navy Reserve, Will has 
personally experienced the value we 
place on employing veterans, active-
duty military, and reservists 
“I appreciate how much Comcast has 
enabled me to succeed in both careers,” 
he says  “We have well-established 
leave policies, offer extended benefits, 
match the differential between civilian 
and military pay, and hold positions for 
those deployed  Our company is a true 
leader in this area ” HEROES AT WORK
Comcast and NBCUniversal deepened 
this commitment in 2012 by becoming 
corporate sponsors of Hiring Our Heroes 
(HOH), a U S  Chamber of Commerce 
campaign that helps veterans and 
military spouses find meaningful 
employment  We hired our thousandth 
veteran through the program in March 
2013 — two years ahead of schedule — 
and have recommitted to bring aboard 
another 1,000 by 2015  
Beyond our ongoing efforts to attract 
and develop veterans within Comcast 
and NBCUniversal, we support a range 
of programs and initiatives aimed at 
expanding employment opportunities for 
veterans in all sectors of the workforce 
Along with participating in local HOH-
sponsored job fairs around the country, 
we’ve launched a jobs and education 
resource portal for veterans and their 
Will Baas, Executive Director of Talent Acquisition 
at Comcast and a Commander with the U.S. 
Navy Reserve, appreciates “how much Comcast 
has enabled me to succeed in both careers. ”
families  This online hub features up-
to-date tools and information to help 
smooth the transition from military 
service to civilian life  NBC Publishing 
has also released a free e-book and 
 51
DEVELOP AND ENGAGE EMPLOYEES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
HEROES AT WORK
guide for veterans, 
Heroes Get Hired: 
How to Use Your 
Military Experience 
to Master 
the Interview , 
available at www  
heroesgethired 
com  The e-book 
highlights specific 
strengths and 
competitive advantages that veterans 
bring to the civilian workforce, and it 
provides advice on how to communicate 
these qualities to a recruiter or potential 
employer  
Job opportunities are just a part of our 
support for veterans and reservists  
Comcast and NBCUniversal each have 
a Veterans Network Employee Resource 
Group (ERG) that offers mentoring 
programs and networking opportunities 
to help members grow professionally 
and personally   Our ERGs help foster 
the innate connection that exists among 
veterans 
Along with the bonds forged from 
serving their country, many of the 
veterans we hire also share a strong 
drive to excel on the job 
“With every veteran I’ve met, there’s a 
sense that this person will be able to 
adapt and overcome,” says Michelle 
Alban, who served in the U S  Air Force 
and is now Vice President of Corporate 
Communications for Telemundo  “They 
want to get things accomplished ”
Michelle experienced the special 
connection that exists between veterans 
early on in her search for a new career 
after the military   “The hiring manager for 
my first position happened to be an Air Force veteran as well,” she says  “And 
while I had the skills and experience 
for the job, I wasn’t the only qualified 
candidate  But there was definitely a 
spark of recognition once he learned I 
was Air Force ”
However, finding a way back into the 
workforce can be especially tough 
for veterans, who often return to 
their hometowns or the familiarity of 
communities around military installations  
“They simply come back to the place 
they know — a decision of the heart, 
rather than an informed decision based 
on where the jobs are,” says Kevin 
Schmiegel, Vice President of the U S  
Chamber of Commerce and a retired 
Marine Corps Lieutenant Colonel  “They 
need help identifying job markets and the 
employers there who are ready to hire ”
Kevin says Comcast and NBCUniversal 
are among the HOH campaign’s 
strongest supporters  “They offer a 
“With every veteran I’ve ever met, there’s a 
sense that this person will be able to adapt and 
overcome,” says Michelle Alban, Vice President 
of Corporate Communications for Telemundo 
and a U.S. Air Force veteran.  
unique culture that does a great job 
attracting, assimilating, and retaining 
veterans  There is a shared sense of 
mission and purpose  And veterans 
know they may not get that elsewhere ” 52
DEVELOP AND ENGAGE EMPLOYEES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  The annual FIRST® Robotics 
Competition for high school 
students might appear 
to be only about solving 
technology challenges. But 
our employees, many of 
whom help coach FIRST 
teams year after year, know 
that this event can also be 
an educational and career 
game changer.
Students who take part in the FIRST 
competition are nearly twice as likely 
to pursue a college degree in a STEM 
(science, technology, engineering, and 
mathematics) discipline, according 
to program organizers  When John 
Schanz, Executive Vice President and 
Chief Network Officer at Comcast, 
heard about these numbers five years 
ago, he knew it was a program to  
stand behind 
“The fuel of my organization is 
engineering-type talent,” John says  
“Since inspired STEM majors are critical 
to keeping the pipeline of innovation 
full, we support programs like FIRST 
to provide opportunities in technology 
development  Later, we offer internships 
to college students and open career 
paths from the entry level all the way up 
to senior technology fellowships ”
In the FIRST Robotics Competition, 
teams each build a robot from the 
ground up with the goal of resolving  
that year’s assigned technological 
challenge — such as ascending an 
incline or throwing a disc into a goal — 
within six weeks  During the 2012–13 
school year, business groups all across 
Comcast — from engineering and 
technology to the legal department —  IGNITING INTEREST IN TECHNOLOGY 
helped 51 FIRST Robotics teams 
compete, and eight of them made it to 
the championships in St  Louis  “The 
program has gone viral,” John says 
The FIRST teams we support often  
look, feel, and act like small businesses, 
with members dedicated to key roles 
beyond building the robot  Students also 
gain experience in web development, 
marketing, fundraising, and project 
management  In parallel, our 68 
employee mentors draw fresh inspiration 
from the teams’ excitement and 
dedication  Parts of our technology 
development organization have even 
embraced the idea of a six-week build 
cycle to speed our own innovations 
We want to create as much opportunity 
as possible in technology to help 
ensure U S  students are prepared  
for 21st century careers  “If we don’t 
have enough technologists and  
STEM majors, we might someday be  
a country that doesn’t understand how 
anything works,” John says  “We want 
to remain leaders in innovation and 
drive a strong economy, which depends 
on us helping make it cool to have the 
answers in school ”
To help achieve this goal, we offer 
the Comcast Technology and Media 
Award as part of our involvement with 
FIRST   This prize goes to the team that 
excels in using online and social media 
platforms to communicate and market 
the FIRST mission  This year’s winning 
students from Team Panteras in Mexico 
translated all of the FIRST registration 
and submission materials into Spanish — 
opening the door for more teams around 
the world to compete — and even 
created a Facebook account for Paquito 
Panteras, the team mascot 
We consider this an example of 
“coopertition” — the kind of cooperation 
among competitors that can help a  
team win FIRST’s Gracious 
Professionalism award  This award 
emphasizes one of our core values:  
the importance of teamwork in 
overcoming technological challenges 
and creating innovative solutions 
“We keep our energy behind FIRST,” 
John says, “because it’s a smart 
way to encourage broad-based 
collaboration among students that will 
spur strong technology development 
for years to come ” 53
DEVELOP AND ENGAGE EMPLOYEES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Comcast and NBCUniversal employees are the cornerstone 
of our mission to inform, connect, entertain, and inspire 
our audiences. We provide training and development for all 
employees at every level to help them — and our business —  
succeed. These opportunities span nearly 100 programs 
serving both diverse and nondiverse employees, including 
college internships, leadership fundamentals training, and 
executive management classes. In 2012, Comcast invested 
more than $57 million in ongoing training for our employees —  
training that would have cost nearly three times as much for 
participants to obtain on their own. Here are a few examples of 
our offerings. 
See a full list of our workforce development training 
programs  on page 79.BUILDING OUR FUTURE
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP FORUM
This flagship program identifies and 
develops leaders for the executive  
level from across the business  
Participants use in-class learning 
and group projects to deepen their 
understanding of our operations, 
experience diverse leadership styles, 
cultivate new executive management 
skills, and pitch innovative business 
ideas for our businesses to review 
and potentially implement  Nearly 500 
employees have completed the program 
since its introduction in 1999  Our 
October 2012 graduating class was  
71% diverse, 41% female participants, 
and 43% people of color  
We offer nearly 100 professional development and leadership training opportunities for our employees. 54
DEVELOP AND ENGAGE EMPLOYEES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  FOUNDATIONS OF 
ORGANIZATIONAL LEADERSHIP
Introduced in 2002 and targeting 
mid-level management employees, 
the Foundations of Organizational 
Leadership (FOL) program helps 
participants develop and refine 
leadership skills, explore and 
improve business processes, and 
leverage partnerships at work in 
the community   Curriculum includes 
executive-led forums on topics from 
management strategies to corporate 
finances and problem solving  About 
450 employees have completed the 
program to date  In 2012, the FOL 
cohort was 60% diverse, with 40% 
female participants and 34% people 
of color  
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
LEADERSHIP PROGRAM
We created this three-year program 
to meet the growing demand for 
financial leaders with rich experience 
in Comcast and NBCUniversal 
operations  Each year, six high-
potential employees who are early 
in their careers develop financial, 
operational, and leadership skills 
through executive mentoring, unique 
rotational assignments that can 
involve relocation, and a customized 
curriculum  Our first six graduates 
completed the program in 2012, and 
each now holds a director-level role 
in the business  Of the 17 program 
participants to date, 35% are female 
and 12% are people of color  BUILDING OUR FUTURE
SKILLS-BASED TRAINING FOR 
FRONTLINE EMPLOYEES
Comcast University — our nationwide 
training and development organization — 
offers three programs to develop career 
paths for frontline cable employees within 
the company   The CommTech program 
for field technicians teaches customer-
interaction skills, installation and repair 
of advanced services, and safety   The 
Excellence in Operations Center 
employee development program includes 
skills in managing electronic surveillance 
tools and software to track, identify, 
and monitor the Comcast network for 
outages and impairments  Training for our 
customer care employees is designed 
to expand skills in customer interaction, 
issue resolution, troubleshooting, and 
products and services knowledge  Employees earn salary increases by 
demonstrating newly acquired advanced 
skills, meeting key performance metrics, 
and passing certification exams  
TECHNICAL INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
In the summer of 2012, NBCUniversal’s 
Operations and Technical Services 
(O&TS) group launched a Technical 
Internship Program to recruit talented 
college students to our company 
and give them practical experience  
Sixteen undergraduates from university 
campuses across the country took part 
in professional development workshops 
with Campus2Career, along with training 
sessions specific to O&TS operations  55
DEVELOP AND ENGAGE EMPLOYEES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  As a leading media, entertainment, and technology company, 
we offer competitive benefits and support programs to help  
our full-time and part-time employees — and their families 
— live better. We’re constantly seeking feedback from our 
employees about what they need and what we can do to help.  SUPPORTING OUR EMPLOYEES 
AND THEIR FAMILIES 
tobacco users by reducing their health 
insurance premiums 
Also beginning in 2012, transgender 
employees have access to enhanced 
health plans that cover transition-related 
treatment such as gender reassignment 
surgery, hormone therapy, and mental 
health counseling  
FAMILY
We provide paid parental leave, a variety 
of childcare programs, a Maternity 
Management Program for expectant 
mothers, and many other benefits to 
ensure our employees have the support 
they need to take care of their families  
Our Adoption Assistance program offers 
financial support and other resources to 
employees who are adopting a child — 
including reimbursement of up to $10,000 
FINANCIAL
In 2012, we invested more than $216 
million in 401(k) matching contributions 
toward our employees’ retirement security   We also enable employees to 
buy shares of Comcast stock at a 15% 
discount through our Employee Stock 
Purchase Plan; in 2012, employees 
bought more than $66 million in Comcast 
stock  Employees also have the option of 
using pre-tax funds to pay for commuting 
expenses and can take advantage of 
robust voluntary insurance benefits — 
including homeowner, auto, legal, and 
pet coverage  To support employees 
in continuing their education, in 2012 
we provided more than $13 million in 
tuition reimbursement for approved 
undergraduate and graduate degree 
completion programs  
MENTAL HEALTH
We have developed a range of 
programs and benefits to help our 
employees deal with issues related 
to mental and emotional health  Our 
Employee Assistance Program provides 
professional, confidential support to 
those who need it 
FREE AND DISCOUNTED SERVICES 
FOR EMPLOYEES 
Our employees enjoy the unique benefit 
of receiving our digital cable, high-speed 
Internet, telephone, and other products 
and services either at deeply discounted 
rates or free of charge  In 2012, we 
provided more than $250 million in 
courtesy services to our employees HEALTHCARE
We make comprehensive medical, 
prescription, dental, and vision coverage 
available to all our employees  In 
addition, we provide short-term and 
long-term disability benefits  
Comcast and NBCUniversal also  
offer a variety of programs to help 
employees improve and maintain 
their health, including on-site health 
screenings and a partnership with 
Weight Watchers  NBCUniversal also 
offers employees services at on-site 
medical clinics and fitness centers, 
discounts on external fitness center 
memberships, a flu shot program, 
preventative screenings, and a lactation 
program for new mothers 
In 2012, we launched a smoking 
cessation program that offers tobacco 
users a variety of supportive methods to 
help them quit, including free nicotine-
replacement therapy and telephone 
coaching  In 2012, more than 9,000 
employees — roughly a third of our 
tobacco users — took advantage of this 
free program, which also rewards non-$216 
million
In 2012, we  
invested more than $216 million in 
401(k) matching contributions toward 
our employees’ retirement security.
 56
DEVELOP AND ENGAGE EMPLOYEES2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Every employee has the right to a safe, healthy, and productive work environment. We support 
our employees by implementing safety policies and procedures that help reduce risk and 
promote safe practices. In turn, we expect our employees to work in a safe manner and report 
any potentially unsafe conditions or behavior.CREATING A SAFER WORKPLACE
WORKPLACE SAFETY
At Comcast and NBCUniversal, we 
are committed to complying with all 
applicable labor laws in countries in 
which we do business  We work on 
a wide range of issues covered by 
regulatory agencies, including fall 
protection, work zone safety, employee 
personal protection, and indoor air 
quality   In 2012, Comcast Cable had 
a reduction in Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration (OSHA) recordable incidents of 15%, compared 
with 2011  In addition, Comcast and 
NBCUniversal recorded zero work-
related fatalities in 2012 
MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY AND 
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE 
Comcast Cable employees drove 
more than 350 million miles in 2012 for 
business, which makes transportation 
safety a top priority for us  We continue to comply with all applicable Federal 
Department of Transportation and state 
regulations regarding transportation 
safety   In 2012, on-the-job motor vehicle 
accidents for Comcast Cable dropped by 
more than 10%  57
2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
Our view of stewardship is broad, 
encompassing virtually every aspect 
of our businesses  It goes beyond 
managing resources responsibly   To 
us, stewardship is rooted in the 
ways Comcast and NBCUniversal 
engage with others and honor our 
commitments  It is, at heart, about 
how we build and nurture relationships, 
which are among the most important 
elements in our long-term success  
Millions of people and companies in the 
United States rely on our broadband 
technology products and services  
Millions more worldwide turn to us for 
the news, invite our programming into 
their lives, enjoy our films, and visit our 
theme parks  We do not take these 
privileges lightly   We recognize they 
come with an obligation to operate ethically, use resources wisely, and 
make a difference in local communities 
in ways that benefit our businesses and 
our many stakeholder groups  
This emphasis on stewardship is evident 
in our initiatives to protect information 
online and safeguard customer privacy   
It’s why we invested more than $250 
million in public service messages in 
2012 to raise awareness of urgent social 
issues  It underscores the investments 
we’ve made to improve energy efficiency 
in our facilities and across our large fleet 
of vehicles  And it drives us to uphold 
the highest standards of business ethics 
and journalistic integrity   
Such measures demonstrate our 
commitment to being responsible 
stewards of the public trust  This is particularly important as we continue to 
integrate Comcast and NBCUniversal, 
paying strict attention to complying 
with applicable laws and regulations 
while building upon each company’s 
respective strengths  
Stewardship presents us with 
opportunities to do better   To discover 
ways to be more efficient and effective 
in running our businesses  To innovate 
products and services that deliver better 
performance using fewer resources  To 
find common ground with stakeholder 
groups and collaborate on shared 
solutions  Most important, stewardship 
prompts us to grow our company 
responsibly while benefiting the people 
and communities we serve 
 Helping parents keep their children safe on the Internet. Shrinking our environmental 
footprint. Safeguarding the privacy of our customers and employees. Upholding the 
highest standards of journalistic integrity.DEEPENING  
 TRUST  
THROUGH  
 STEWARDSHIP 58
2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
OPERATE 
RESPONSIBLY
Comcast and NBCUniversal conduct our business with the highest standards of 
integrity, ethics, and fairness. We dedicate significant resources to protecting the 
privacy of our employees and customers, promoting safety across our operations and 
facilities, and being accountable to our stakeholders. 59
OPERATE RESPONSIBLY2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
SUCCEEDING  
WITH INTEGRITY
At Comcast, integrity comes first  
Jennifer Heller works every day to help 
our employees deliver on this core value  
“My team helps establish guidelines and 
practices to ensure the company and 
our employees do what’s right,” Jen 
says  As the Chief Compliance Officer of 
Comcast, she is responsible for leading 
enterprise compliance efforts, including 
developing and operationalizing policies 
and procedures to ensure that we 
comply with international, federal, state, 
and local laws  She also works closely 
with NBCUniversal Chief Compliance 
Officer Alisa Shudofsky and her team 
in accomplishing those goals  Jen 
identifies and prioritizes the most 
important areas of risk — from what 
seems like an unlimited and ever-
changing list — by collaborating with 
leaders across the business as well as 
internal and external lawyers 
“I think Comcast’s commitment to 
operating with the highest standards 
of honesty, fairness, and integrity is 
just as robust today as it was 50 years 
ago,” Jen says  But one of the biggest 
challenges she and her team face is 
keeping up with a business that is 
constantly changing and expanding  
“As we shape the future of media and 
technology and our footprint expands 
across the globe, the policies we rely 
upon need to adapt and keep up with 
our businesses,” she says  
Jen certainly understands the role that 
her group can play in facilitating the 
company’s continued growth  Prior to 
transitioning to compliance work in 2003, she spent four years handling mergers 
and acquisitions as an in-house attorney 
for Comcast  
Our Code of Conduct, which Jen 
oversees, communicates the 
expectation of legal and ethical behavior 
from all employees  “The Code of 
Conduct serves as our main tool to 
address employee conduct as it relates 
to business risk, and articulates how we, 
as a company, can operate ethically and 
in a way that is consistent with business 
success,” says Jen  All employees are 
required to review and acknowledge the 
Code of Conduct annually   
“When Comcast and NBCUniversal joined 
together, we completed an overhaul of 
the Code of Conduct to create a more 
accessible and user-friendly document 
that reflected our values and brands,” 
she says  The Code of Conduct is 
formally updated on an annual basis 
and is applicable companywide  “I am 
particularly proud of the way in which our 
various business leaders and subject-
matter experts collaborated across 
the enterprise to review policies and 
create content that reflects our common 
underlying principles ” 
Jen notes that the Code of Conduct’s 
objective is to encourage employees 
to ask questions, seek guidance, and 
raise concerns when faced with ethical 
dilemmas  “The Code of Conduct 
cannot cover every conceivable topic or 
issue that an employee will encounter, 
and our goal is to provide employees 
with the guidance they need to make 
sound ethical judgments with integrity, and identify and seek out advice from 
knowledgeable resources within the 
company,” Jen says  The links in the  
Code of Conduct provide employees  
with access to additional resources  
and guidelines, including stand-alone 
policies in each business unit’s  
employee handbook  
“There will always be new businesses, 
technologies, and laws that will require 
us to evolve our policies,” Jen says  The 
Code of Conduct — now published in 
eight different languages — is constantly 
evolving  “For example, the Code of 
Conduct now references social media, 
which we could not have anticipated 
several years ago,” she says 
However, Jen believes that the company’s 
commitment to operating with the highest 
ethical standards remains as fervent as 
it was at its founding a half-century ago  
“What I’m most proud of is the role my 
team plays in continuing Comcast’s  
legacy of succeeding with integrity  ”“I think Comcast’s 
commitment to 
operating with the 
highest standards of 
honesty, fairness, 
and integrity is just 
as robust today as it 
was 50 years ago.”
—Jennifer Heller 60
OPERATE RESPONSIBLY2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  SAFETY COMES FIRST IN BRINGING 
TRANSFORMERS RIDE TO LIFE
The safety of mere mortals may not be the first thing that 
comes to mind when preparing for an all-out intergalactic 
battle between the Autobots and Decepticons over the future 
of the world as we know it. But for Aimee Kool, there was no 
higher priority. 
built into it,” Aimee says  “We also had 
to erect a massive tower crane on the 
property, which introduced another 
whole set of challenges ” The demolition 
and crane work were virtually flawless  
But the confines of the site were an 
ongoing challenge  Three sides were 
surrounded by operational sound 
stages; on the fourth was the active 
theme park  “It was like working in a 
heavily populated urban environment, 
like squeezing a new building in a city 
block,” she says 
Working with the construction group at 
Universal Creative, Aimee managed the 
safe movement of material, equipment, 
and up to 350 workers across an 
active construction site  She and her 
colleagues also had to coordinate with 
shooting and production schedules, all 
with minimal impact on park operations  
But they didn’t have to do it alone “Throughout this project, we had 
nothing but total support from above for 
doing the right thing in terms of safety, 
operating responsibly, and continuous 
improvement,” Aimee says  “Preventing 
injuries to our guests and employees is 
always our first priority  ”
Our management also understands that 
safety is an investment  “If we don’t do 
it safely and we have incidents, we’ll 
shut down to investigate  We’ll miss 
deadlines,” she says  “It will affect the 
schedule and the budget  Stringent 
oversight at the outset is actually more 
efficient and pays off in the long run, and 
NBCUniversal gets that ”
The Transformers attraction opened 
in June 2012, to overwhelming guest 
response and satisfaction  Post-opening 
adjustments or fixes have been minimal, 
and Aimee thinks she knows why  
“EHS has been involved with this attraction 
since the very beginning, and senior 
management backed us right down the 
line,” she says  “We pulled together a 
tremendous range of expertise and made 
sure we did things right so we could 
create a ride that’s as safe as it is thrilling ”
 “Throughout this 
project, we had 
nothing but total 
support from 
above for doing the 
right thing in terms 
of safety, operating 
responsibly, and 
continuous 
improvement.”
—Aimee Kool
Aimee, Director of Environmental Health 
and Safety (EHS) at Universal Studios 
Hollywood (USH) theme park, spent 
two years focusing on safety policies 
and practices in preparation for the 
robot warfare and immersive thrills of 
Transformers: The Ride-3D at USH 
A 20-year employee, she helped integrate 
EHS into the operating culture at USH 
in 2004  Aimee describes its mission 
in fundamental terms: “We’re here to 
support and protect Universal Parks 
and Resorts’ most valuable assets — 
our employees, our guests, and the 
environment ”
Bringing the Transformers attraction 
to life was a complex and demanding 
project from the outset, starting with 
the demolition of an existing attraction 
to make room for the new ride  “This 
was a high-risk demolition of a very old 
building with flame and gas elements  61
OPERATE RESPONSIBLY2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
KEEPING OUR 
CUSTOMERS’ 
INFORMATION SAFE  
AND SECURE
When discussing Comcast’s relationship 
with customers, Susan Jin Davis thinks 
beyond bandwidth speeds and channel 
selection  “Our strategy is to provide 
a superior customer experience and 
superior products compared with 
everyone else in the industry,” says 
Susan, our Senior Vice President of 
Communications and Data Services 
“One of the most important ways we 
demonstrate that leadership is by keeping 
our customers’ best interests in mind,” 
she adds  “That holds true whether we are 
helping protect them from online security 
threats or giving them more influence over 
what their kids watch on TV  ” 
Susan, who plays a key role in facilitating 
our online security and parental control 
strategies, says her team is continually 
looking for ways to create the safest 
online environment 
“We think our customers deserve to be part 
of the best, most secure network in the 
industry,” she says  “No one else is doing 
it like us ” 
We made significant strides in the area of 
online security in 2011 with the release of 
the Constant Guard Protection Suite, an 
Internet safety solution available free to 
all XFINITY customers  Constant Guard 
offers full password protection, secure 
logins for banking and shopping sites, the 
Norton Security Suite of antivirus tools, 
and a variety of identity theft safeguards  
In 2012, we added a new feature to 
Constant Guard called DNS Lock, which 
validates the authenticity of each website 
a customer visits  “Customers may think they’re on the Bank of America website, 
when in fact they’ve been diverted to a 
fake website that is stealing their login and 
password,” Susan explains  “DNS Lock 
creates a secure browsing experience that 
keeps them on the real site ”
We also released Constant Guard Mobile 
in late 2012  The mobile app helps 
XFINITY Internet customers safely browse, 
shop, and bank online while on the go  
Constant Guard Mobile provides the 
same level of security as Constant Guard 
for PCs, but puts a greater emphasis on 
threats that are more common to mobile 
users, such as phishing scams that take 
advantage of the smaller screen size to 
hide fake URLs  
“It’s important for mobile users to 
understand that just because they’re 
not at home using their computers 
doesn’t mean they’re less likely to have 
these attacks,” says Susan, adding 
that Comcast is the first ISP to offer a 
comprehensive security solution for 
mobile devices  
Robust parental controls are also key to 
improving our customers’ experience, but 
for a slightly different reason  “We want our 
customers to feel like they can customize our services for their needs,” Susan says  
“What they watch or don’t watch, what they 
browse or don’t browse  It’s important for us 
to accommodate our customers’ priorities 
and lifestyles ” 
XFINITY parental controls let customers 
restrict television content by age, subject 
matter, and language, while also blocking 
questionable web content from their 
children’s browsers  Most of the television 
controls are available through the XFINITY 
set-top box  We’re also working on 
technology that allows parents to activate 
the TV controls remotely from their computer   
“People are communicating and accessing 
content in so many different ways,” she 
adds  “Our challenge is to go where they’re 
going, and protect them across all the 
different platforms and technologies they’re 
using now and in the future ” 
Visit the Comcast online safety microsite at 
http://xfinity  comcast net/parents  WWW   “We think our 
customers 
deserve to be part 
of the best, most 
secure network in 
the industry. No 
one else is doing  
it like us.” 
—Susan Jin Davis
Our public service announcements include tips 
for parents to help their children stay safe online. 62
OPERATE RESPONSIBLY2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Integrity remains the foundation of our business, and 
operating with the highest ethical standards is a 
responsibility everyone in the company shares. We are 
committed to fostering a work environment that promotes 
integrity and ensures compliance with international, federal, 
state, and local laws and regulations in our relationships 
with customers and other businesses. We aspire every day to 
earn the respect and trust of our stakeholders — customers, 
employees, shareholders, and the people in the communities 
we serve — and view them as partners in a collaborative 
effort to preserve our legacy of integrity. PRESERVING A LEGACY OF INTEGRITY 
comfortable raising concerns and are 
not distracted by unresolved problems 
at work  Whether it is about a day-
to-day or more significant workplace 
problem, a concern about suspected 
illegal or unethical conduct, or even 
an idea for a better way of serving 
customers, Comcast Listens offers a 
process to help all of our employees feel 
comfortable speaking up  We encourage 
employees to report misconduct, and 
the company takes those allegations 
very seriously   We strictly prohibit 
retaliation for raising an issue Comcast Listens gives employees 
several different ways to report 
workplace or integrity issues, including 
a toll-free, 24/7 helpline and a web 
portal  An independent, third-party 
company administers the Comcast 
Listens helpline and web portal, giving 
employees the option to remain 
anonymous when reporting issues  
Concerns received through the Comcast 
Listens helpline or web portal are logged, 
acknowledged, and when necessary, 
investigated by a trained investigator 
from the Human Resources, Security, 
Internal Audit, or Law department  If 
an investigation confirms wrongdoing, 
we’ll take the appropriate disciplinary 
or corrective action, regardless of the 
position of the individuals involved  
POLITICAL AND TRADE 
ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES
Participation in political activities, 
whether done directly or through our 
involvement with trade associations 
or other organizations, is important to 
achieving our business objectives  It is 
critical that all of our activities in this area 
rigorously comply with applicable laws, COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
We maintain an effective compliance 
program that fosters a culture of ethics 
throughout the company, and helps us 
respond to changing needs and the 
external environment in which we operate  
We proactively establish internal controls 
to ensure compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations, as well as our 
company policies and contracts 
Arthur R  Block, our Corporate General 
Counsel, is a “high-level person” within 
the meaning of the United States 
Sentencing Guidelines and has overall 
responsibility for the compliance 
program  He has appointed Jennifer 
Heller as Chief Compliance Officer, 
and she has day-to-day operational 
responsibility for the program  Both 
executives report regularly on the 
compliance program to our Board of 
Directors or appropriate committee(s)  
of our Board 
COMCAST LISTENS
Comcast and NBCUniversal are 
committed to creating an open 
environment where our employees feel “In a big company, 
you need certain 
fundamentals to 
believe in. Around 
here, everyone 
knows that integrity 
comes first.” 
—Ralph J . Roberts
Ralph J. Roberts, Founder and Chairman 
Emeritus, Comcast Corporation. 63
OPERATE RESPONSIBLY2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  PRESERVING A LEGACY OF INTEGRITY
regulations, and our own standards of 
integrity   For this reason, our essential 
policy regarding political activities is set 
forth in our Code of Conduct  Additional 
details on our implementation and 
compliance activities in connection with 
the policy are contained in the Comcast 
Corporation Statement on Political and 
Trade Association Activity  
Both the Code of Conduct and the 
Statement on Political and Trade 
Association Activity can be found on 
our website at http://corporate comcast 
com/our-values/integrity  
Comcast does not make independent 
expenditures; contribute to federal,  
state, or local political committees that 
only make independent expenditures 
(Super PACs); or contribute to any 
organization for the purpose of funding 
independent expenditures 
JOURNALISTIC INTEGRITY
Millions rely on us for timely, accurate 
information about local, national, 
and international issues and events  
NBCUniversal’s News Standards Unit sets 
standards for newsgathering and reporting, 
prepares NBC News policies and 
guidelines, and holds mandatory training 
sessions regularly to ensure adherence to 
the highest levels of ethics and integrity 
throughout our news organizations  
We also provide training to journalists 
across NBC News, including MSNBC, 
CNBC, our owned local television stations, 
Telemundo, and other program areas  This 
ensures all of our news content — whether 
delivered by broadcast, cable, the 
Internet, mobile, or other devices not yet  
invented — maintains the highest 
standards of journalism 
Learn more about our news standards at 
http://corporate comcast com/csr2011-
journalisticstandards   PRIVACY POLICY
Privacy is crucial to our audiences, 
customers, and employees, and 
helping to protect it is a responsibility 
we take seriously   Across Comcast 
and NBCUniversal, we take measures 
to meet strict standards of the many 
national, regional, and local privacy laws 
that apply to our industry  
We inform customers about our privacy 
policies and practices through privacy 
notices  At Comcast, we also publish 
our privacy policies and practices related 
to video, high-speed Internet, and voice 
services on our website at www  comcast 
com/customerprivacy   NBCUniversal 
informs audiences and users of its privacy 
policies across its digital properties 
We’ve put protections in place to 
safeguard our Comcast customers from 
pretexting, hacking, and other attempts 
at identity theft or unauthorized access 
to account information  Our globally 
positioned security team investigates 
and responds to privacy and security 
issues, and ensures that our product 
design and deployment process 
includes the appropriate privacy and 
security practices  To learn more, see Keeping Our 
Customers’ Information Safe and 
Secure,  on page 61 
CREDOSPEAK
Credospeak is an annual employee 
engagement survey distributed to 
all Comcast Cable and Comcast 
headquarters employees  More than 
80% of our employees participate year 
after year, sharing their perspectives on 
topics such as the company’s leadership, 
policies, customer service, diversity, 
and ethics  In addition to providing 
feedback on nearly 70 questions in 
2012, our employees contributed more 
than 150,000 written responses to 
open-ended questions  Results from 
the 2012 survey revealed that Comcast 
employees feel most positive about 
the company’s leadership, strategy, 
and culture of open communication  
In addition, Comcast’s overall results 
exceeded external benchmarks based 
on survey data from other leading U S  
companies  Our company leaders use 
feedback from Credospeak to improve 
our business operations and our 
relationship with employees 
WWW   64
OPERATE RESPONSIBLY2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Brian L. Roberts, Comcast Chairman and CEO, stresses the company’s core value of integrity in an 
internal video for employees.
EVOLUTION OF THE INTERNET  
AND COMCAST
As consumer use of the Internet continues 
to evolve, so has Comcast  Four years 
ago, when we had a static 250-gigabyte 
(GB) monthly data plan, streaming video 
and other high-bandwidth activities were 
not common consumer experiences  As a 
result, very few customers used more than 
that amount of data in a month  Over time, 
however, consumers began streaming 
more online video, in part due to the 
widespread adoption of smartphones, 
tablets, and gaming consoles  In addition, 
families began to connect numerous 
devices to the Internet using WiFi and ran 
them all simultaneously, which started 
to add up to more data consumption 
per household  We saw this change in 
consumer behavior and recognized that 
we needed to adapt to give our customers 
a great online experience  As a result, 
in 2012, we announced that we were 
replacing our static 250GB data plan  
with an improved data-management 
approach that gave our customers more 
choice and flexibility   
In 2012, we tested two pilot programs  
The first, in Nashville, Tennessee, 
increased our monthly data plan to PRESERVING A LEGACY OF INTEGRITY
300GB for all customers regardless of 
their Internet speed tier   In addition, we 
offered customers the ability to purchase 
additional buckets of data in 50GB 
increments for an additional $10 each, 
with no limit on the number of buckets 
a customer could choose to buy   The 
second pilot, in Tucson, Arizona, offered 
different monthly data plans for each 
of our speed tiers  The lowest-speed 
tiers started with a 300GB monthly data 
plan and rose to higher amounts with 
each successively faster speed tier, up 
to a 600GB monthly data plan  We also 
gave customers the option to purchase 
additional buckets of 50GB for $10 each 
with no limit 
Both pilots were designed to ensure 
fair treatment and a consistent, superior 
experience for all of our high-speed 
Internet customers  We continue to 
study customers’ reactions to the two 
approaches to make sure they are easily 
understood  We may make periodic 
adjustments, as needed, based on what 
we learn from customer feedback, as well 
as qualitative and quantitative research 
As new technologies emerge, we will 
continue to work with our customers 
to understand how their needs and behaviors are changing online  At the 
same time, we remain committed to an 
open Internet and have supported the 
Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) Open Internet rules  No matter 
what, we will continue to innovate, adapt, 
and bring great new experiences to our 
customers 
SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
NBCUniversal’s supplier social 
responsibility (SSR) audit program 
includes environmental and labor 
inspection points validating key 
exposure areas related to involuntary 
labor, underage labor, wage, working 
hours, working conditions, emergency 
preparedness, fire protection, industrial 
hygiene, personal protective equipment, 
waste management, and environmental 
permits  We take a triangulation 
approach to SSR audits, including 
employee interviews conducted globally, 
in-depth documentation review, and on-
site inspection  
Our audit scope is applicable for all 
countries excluding North America, 
Western Europe, Japan, and Australia  At 
NBCUniversal, business units contract 
with licensees who select the factory 
to produce the product  We emphasize 
protecting labor, human rights, and 
environmental practices for all sourced 
factories that produce NBCUniversal 
logo or branded products  Our goal is 
to work with factories closely to build up 
their capacity for sustainable growth  We 
work with factory management in taking 
an active role to improve their labor and 
environmental performance 
 65
OPERATE RESPONSIBLY2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  FULFILLING OUR COMMITMENTS IN THE 
NBCUNIVERSAL TRANSACTION 
When Comcast announced the acquisition of NBCUniversal 
in 2010, we also announced a number of voluntary public-
interest benefits and commitments that will allow us to better 
serve the entertainment, communications, and information 
needs of American consumers. The Department of Justice and 
the FCC also placed certain conditions on the NBCUniversal 
transaction, including competitive, public interest, and diversity 
provisions that align with many of our voluntary commitments.
range of diverse programming, and 
launching new independent channels with 
diverse ownership 
COMCAST BROADBAND 
OPPORTUNITY PLAN — INTERNET 
ESSENTIALS
Internet Essentials, the largest and most 
comprehensive broadband adoption 
program in America, has connected more 
than 220,000 low-income families (an 
estimated 900,000 low-income Americans) to the Internet in the first 22 months of the 
program — most for the first time  
Read more about our digital literacy 
initiatives in the Enrich Communities 
section starting on page 13 
DIVERSE PROGRAMMING AND 
INDEPENDENT NETWORKS
Comcast and NBCUniversal continue 
to strengthen and enrich our offering 
of diverse programming choices — 
expanding the distribution of diverse 
networks to millions of homes, and 
featuring hundreds of on demand and 
online choices geared toward African 
American, Asian American, Hispanic, 
and other diverse audiences  
For more details, see our Promote 
Diversity and Inclusion  section 
starting on page 32 
ENRICHING OUR LOCAL 
PROGRAMMING
Comcast and NBCUniversal continue 
to preserve and enhance local news 
by making strategic investments in our 
NBC Owned Television Stations division  
All 10 of our owned stations now have 
dedicated investigative news units, an 
expansion that involved creating 30 
new positions  We now have more 
than 60 investigative journalists across 
the division and have also increased 
our investments in training, including 
sending unit members to the 2012 
Investigative Reporters and Editors 
conference and providing sessions on 
computer-assisted reporting to help 
them develop high-impact investigative 
stories 
We have made significant investments 
in news gathering and reporting, adding 
news bureaus, purchasing news 
helicopters, upgrading technology, and 
building and renovating studios In February 2013, we filed our second 
annual report  detailing our progress over 
the preceding year in implementing the 
conditions adopted by the FCC in the 
NBCUniversal Transaction Order   We are 
realizing the substantial public-interest 
benefits promised by this transaction 
while also carrying out the competitive 
safeguards sought by the government  
Our achievements over the past two years 
include increasing broadband adoption 
among low-income Americans, expanding 
local news coverage, providing a broader  66
OPERATE RESPONSIBLY2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  In 2012, across the 10 stations included 
in the NBC Owned Television Stations 
division, we exceeded our commitment 
to increase hours of local news and 
information programming by nearly 70%  
Likewise, nine of the owned Telemundo 
stations collectively exceeded our 
commitment to increase hours of local 
news and information programming by 
about 40% 
Local news and public interest 
programming is also benefiting from 
increased synergies between the 
company’s news divisions  NBC News 
and Telemundo Media joined forces to 
deliver an unprecedented number of 
hours of political coverage in English 
and Spanish under the stations’ 
signature political banner Decision 2012  
For more details, see our Create Media 
That Matters section starting on page 21 
EXPANDING OUR VOD AND ONLINE 
PROGRAMMING
Comcast and NBCUniversal have 
surpassed our original commitment 
to make more content available via 
VOD and online  During 2012, the total 
number of VOD choices available at no 
additional charge to Comcast customers 
averaged 36,702 per month —  
more than twice the requirement of 
15,000  This includes nearly 9,000 VOD 
broadcast content choices — the only 
VOD service that offers programming 
from all four major broadcast networks 
as soon as the day after it airs FULFILLING OUR COMMITMENTS  
IN THE NBCUNIVERSAL TRANSACTION
PARTNERSHIPS WITH NONPROFIT 
NEWS ORGANIZATIONS
We continue to maintain nonprofit news 
organization partnerships between 
the voiceofsandiego org and NBC7 
San Diego, ProPublica and NBC4 
New York, The Chicago Reporter and 
NBC5 Chicago, WHYY and NBC10 
Philadelphia, and KPCC Southern 
California Public Radio and NBC4 
Southern California  In  
addition, NBC6 South Florida recently 
announced a partnership with the 
nonprofit Florida Center for Investigative 
Reporting to enhance the station’s local 
investigative reporting 
EMPOWERING PARENTS
Comcast and NBCUniversal are 
expanding our efforts to empower 
parents in making informed 
programming choices for their children  
Our programmers continue to use 
ratings icons that are 50% larger 
than they were prior to the Comcast 
acquisition and use high-contrast color 
combinations  All ratings icons, including 
post-commercial break events, are 
displayed on-screen for 15 seconds We also added on-screen parental  
ratings icons to NBCUniversal-produced 
or -licensed TV programming provided to 
14 NBCUniversal websites, plus hulu com  
and xfinitytv  com  
We invested more than $24 million in 
public service announcement campaigns 
focused on parental controls and 
digital literacy, plus other topics such 
as childhood obesity and nutritional 
guidelines  This investment exceeded our 
commitment by more than $9 million  We 
also continued to expand our library of 
Common Sense Media content, including 
thousands of review videos, tip videos, 
ratings, and recommendations that are 
integrated with our VOD service 
CHILDREN’S PROGRAMMING
Our VOD programming choices geared 
toward children now average 5,900 per 
month  In addition, Comcast provides 
authenticated subscribers with access to 
most of these additional VOD programs 
through xfinitytv  com   All 10 NBC Owned 
Television Stations are airing an additional 
(fourth) hour of children’s programming 
every week on their qualifying multicast 
Comcast partners with Common Sense Media to help parents keep their children safe online.
36,702 
Average number of VOD  
choices available at no  
additional charge to  
Comcast customers each month — more 
than twice the requirement of 15,000. 67
OPERATE RESPONSIBLY2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  channels  The Telemundo Station Group 
is also airing an additional hour of 
children’s programming every week on 
each station’s primary channel, and now 
airs two hours of children’s educational 
programming on its primary channel on 
each Saturday and Sunday morning 
BROADCAST TELEVISION 
INVESTMENTS
Telemundo’s 2011–12 broadcast season 
was the network’s best ever   Telemundo 
was the only Spanish-language 
broadcast network with growth in total 
viewers, marking its second straight 
season as the fastest growing Spanish-
language broadcast network  The ratings 
success was underscored by the best 
primetime performance in the network’s 
history, including more than 173 hours 
of the London 2012 Olympic Games on 
Telemundo  Already the No  1 producer 
of Spanish-language primetime content, 
Telemundo announced it will increase 
its original production by more than 
50% at its Miami-based Telemundo 
Studios, further solidifying its position as 
the leading media company producing 
original content by and for Hispanics 
VENTURE CAPITAL
Comcast has delivered on our 
commitment to establish a $20 
million venture capital fund to expand 
opportunities for businesses with 
minority ownership in new media 
content and applications  As a first 
investment, Comcast Ventures partnered 
with DreamIt Ventures in Philadelphia, 
a leading technology accelerator 
program, to provide training for startup 
businesses with minority ownership  
In 2012, Comcast Ventures renewed 
its partnership with DreamIt Ventures 
to fund a minority entrepreneur 
accelerator program called DreamIt FULFILLING OUR COMMITMENTS IN  
THE NBCUNIVERSAL TRANSACTION
Access  Participating startup companies 
received seed funding and had access to 
DreamIt Ventures’ benefits and services, 
including business talent, legal and 
accounting services, mentoring, office 
space, guidance from leading business 
visionaries, and contacts to reach the 
next level of development  Through the 
DreamIt Access partnership, DreamIt 
and Comcast sponsored 15 minority-led 
startups through the end of 2012, all but 
one of which is still operating  In addition, 
Comcast has invested directly in several 
minority-led businesses 
BROADBAND NETWORK EXPANSION
We expanded our broadband network 
by 1,964 miles in 2012, surpassing our 
target by 464 miles  In addition, we 
extended our broadband network to 
221,891 additional homes — bringing our 
two-year cumulative total to 421,767 and 
surpassing our three-year commitment of 
400,000 homes in just two years 
NETWORK SPORTS
Comcast and NBCUniversal committed 
to maintain major sporting events on the 
NBC broadcast network — evidenced 
by the more than 272 5 hours of London 2012 Olympics coverage aired on the 
network  The NBC Network’s Olympic 
coverage averaged 31 1 million viewers 
over 17 nights in primetime  NBC will be 
the home of the Olympics through 2020  
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
Comcast and NBCUniversal have gone 
above and beyond our commitments 
to enhance diversity in various areas  
We are striving to develop the premier 
model of diversity and inclusion in the 
communications and entertainment 
industries  
For more details, see our Promote 
Diversity and Inclusion section starting 
on page 32  
PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND 
GOVERNMENTAL (PEG) 
PROGRAMMING
Comcast committed to strengthen PEG 
programming by developing a pilot 
program to host PEG content on VOD 
and online  Through our Project Open 
Voice initiative, we placed community-
designated PEG content on XFINITY 
VOD and in online test platforms in six 
pilot communities  
 68
2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  
REDUCE 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT
Our commitment to stewardship drives Comcast and NBCUniversal to find new 
ways of conserving energy and operating more efficiently. As we create technology 
innovations and practices that reduce our own environmental impact, we are also 
empowering our customers to save energy. Comcast and NBCUniversal invest in 
building environmentally sustainable facilities, expanding our fleet of fuel-saving hybrid 
vehicles, and promoting reuse and recycling in our productions. We also leverage our 
media channels to raise awareness of environmental issues and encourage others to 
conserve resources by making small changes in their daily actions. 69
REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  RESOURCE-SAVING MOBILE APP NETS 
2012 ECO GEM AWARD
Régis Ecochard, Nicolas 
Viguier, and Gregory Lozé 
looked at stacks of sales 
brochures and saw an 
opportunity. They envisioned a 
way to rethink how Universal 
Pictures Film France engages 
with customers and, in the 
process, help our company 
conserve resources.
Their idea was to replace traditional 
business-to-business sales tools with an 
interactive Apple® iPad® app featuring 
the company’s catalog of films, TV 
series, and other programming  The app, 
which was developed in three months, 
gives sales representatives in France a 
more compelling way to share the latest 
DVD and Blu-ray releases with retailers 
while using fewer resources 
Instead of just relying on photos 
and text in a printed catalog, sales 
representatives can play movie trailers 
and TV clips on the iPad  They also 
have access to our latest pricing and 
ordering information  The app not only 
helps bring the power of our films and 
programming to life, but also saves 
significant paper and money   In its first 
year, the app conserved approximately 
half a million sheets of paper and 
eliminated $126,000 in printing costs 
For their innovative thinking, Régis, 
Nicolas, and Gregory were recognized 
in 2012 with an Eco GEM (Go the 
Extra Mile) Award, which honors 
NBCUniversal employees who promote 
green practices within their department 
and around the company   The Eco 
GEM Award, launched in 2010, is open 
to all NBCUniversal employees  Each 
year, executives nominate individuals 
and teams who embed innovation and efficiency in their work, and 
their successes inspire 
others to make environmental 
responsibility a priority  
“The app has totally replaced 
the sales sheet,” says Régis, 
an Internal Coordination Manager 
who owns relationships with agencies, 
retailers, and wholesalers  “It allows us 
to present our entire lineup to customers 
in a fun and comprehensive way   Now 
we can share video trailers, update 
our catalog in real time, and tailor our 
presentations for each customer  ”
Customers love the new app in part 
because it lets Universal’s films and TV 
programs shine  “Before, the glossy 
brochures were the ‘star,’” Régis says  
“Now customers can focus on the great 
content we’re offering ”
Our customers and sales representatives 
alike appreciate the technology’s green 
benefits  In France, 30 iPads loaded with 
the app replace enough printed material to conserve 50,000 liters of water, and 
avoid the use of 4,000 liters of ink and 
varnish each year   
Régis, Nicolas, and Gregory presented 
the sales app to Universal Pictures Film 
France as a best practice  We see broad 
potential to adapt this tool for promoting 
NBCUniversal films and series to 
theaters and TV networks — reducing or 
even eliminating huge volumes of sales 
and marketing materials that are now 
printed 
“The app is a simple idea with big 
impact,” says Gregory, Sales Manager for 
Universal Pictures Film France  “When 
a company of our size makes a shift like 
this, it strengthens our business as well 
as reduces our environmental footprint ” 
Régis Ecochard (from left to right), 
Nicolas Viguier, and Gregory Lozé 
received a 2012 Eco GEM Award 
for their innovative iPad app (at 
right) that showcases the Universal 
Pictures catalog of films, TV series, 
and other programming. 70
REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  EQUIPPING HOMES FOR  
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Nearly half of home energy use 
stems from lighting, heating, and air 
conditioning  “That’s why tailoring your 
household energy consumption to your 
real, day-to-day needs can go a long 
way,” says Bill Horrocks, Comcast Vice 
President of Product Management for 
XFINITY Home  “Settings, controls, 
and automated systems can help you 
use fewer kilowatt hours and save on 
your bills ”
XFINITY Home — our web-based home 
security and automation platform — 
allows users to automate timing for 
lights and control their home’s heating 
and air conditioning systems  After a 
simple online configuration process to 
establish settings, our customers can 
access this innovative service from an 
in-home touchscreen or through the 
XFINITY Home app on any Internet-
connected device  
“The vast majority of our customers’ 
interactions — nearly 90% — happen 
via mobile device, like a tablet or cell 
phone,” Bill says  “We give them tools to 
stay in touch with their homes, whether 
they’re at the grocery store, traveling 
overseas, or sitting in the backyard ”
Customers can use the XFINITY Home 
touchscreen in their homes to check 
the weather, news, or sports scores  
And when it’s time to run an errand or 
take a trip, the platform makes it simple 
to set rules for which lights come on 
when, and how warm the house will 
be while no one is there  Supported 
by broadband connectivity to enable 
remote access and control, the platform 
also has a cellular back-up system that 
helps ensure users can always stay on 
top of their home energy consumption  ENERGY STAR® reports that just by 
using a programmable thermostat to 
follow recommended temperature levels, 
homeowners can trim energy use by an 
average of 10%  “I’ve seen it firsthand in 
my own home,” Bill notes  “Every month, 
the energy efficiency I achieve through 
my XFINITY Home thermostat settings 
translates into significant savings on my 
utility bill ”
“Imagine coming home after a day of work 
to find just the lights you need turned on 
inside the house,” he adds  “That’s not 
only a house that knows you better — it’s 
a house that helps you make good on 
your environmental goals ”
XFINITY Home is part of our 
commitment to offering products that 
make the most of technology’s power 
to keep people connected — to their 
families and their homes  “The future is 
bright for this platform,” Bill says 
That’s why in 2013 we’re launching 
an entirely new set of XFINITY Home 
capabilities, including home, away, 
night, and vacation modes that 
“Every month, the energy efficiency I achieve 
through my XFINITY Home thermostat settings 
translates into significant savings,” says Bill 
Horrocks, Vice President of Product Management 
for XFINITY Home.
automatically align energy consumption 
with user needs  We will also release 
EcoSaver, our smart energy solution 
that “learns” how much energy our 
customers’ daily activities require, and 
ultimately allows them to be more 
aggressive about saving 
XFINITY Home empowers our customers 
to increase energy efficiency — one  
home at a time  71
REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  MAKING OUR PRODUCTIONS  
MORE SUSTAINABLE
Across NBCUniversal, we look for creative ways to reduce the 
environmental impact of our film and TV productions — not 
only while the cameras are rolling but also behind the scenes. 
Our efforts range from reducing electricity and water use on 
location to equipping our studios with innovative technologies 
that improve collaboration while reducing the need for travel.
communications tools to remotely 
review work in progress, including 
Apple® iChat®, Skype™, and cineSync 
screen-sharing and editing software  
Computer-animated films such as Dr. 
Seuss’ The Lorax put a much larger load 
on data centers than a typical on-location 
shoot  We dealt with this challenge by 
adopting a number of energy-saving 
technologies, including a new cooling 
system across targeted data centers  By 
cooling the machines and not the entire 
room, Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax consumed 
up to 40% less energy in its data centers 
compared with traditional methods  
Cloud computing technologies in our 
Paris location made our data centers 
even more energy efficient  Finally, by encouraging bike commuting 
and giving employees the option of 
working from home, we helped our 
production teams use less gas and 
reduce emissions  These policies 
not only gave more flexibility to our 
remote workers, but also allowed us 
to capitalize on the talents of visual 
development artists, art directors, and 
modeling editors in four countries and 
five U S  states  
Our conservation efforts won several 
accolades at the 22nd Annual 
Environmental Media Association 
(EMA) Awards on September 29, 2012  
In addition to winning the award for 
environmentally themed content in 
a feature film, Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax 
received an EMA Green Seal for its 
progress in sustainable production 
practices  The film was among 12 
NBCUniversal productions to earn an 
EMA Green Seal:
• Universal Pictures — Anna Karenina, 
Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax, Les Misérables  
• Focus Features — Closed Circuit, 
Promised Land
• Universal Television (NBC) —  Grimm, 
Parenthood, Up All Night
• Universal Cable Productions (USA and 
Syfy) —  Suits, Covert Affairs, Alphas, 
Warehouse 13
Watch a video about the production of 
Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax  at http:// corporate 
comcast com/csrvideo2012  
INTEGRATING GREEN PRACTICES 
INTO FILM PRODUCTION
When we started filming Dr. Seuss’ The 
Lorax , we knew we were tackling a story 
with a powerful environmental legacy   
We honored that legacy by identifying 
and implementing innovative ways to 
reduce our environmental footprint  To 
lessen the need for air travel and its 
related environmental impact, we used 
cutting-edge recording technologies 
to create virtual work environments 
for our production teams on two 
continents  These technologies allowed 
actors to record their voice-over parts 
at 10 studios in the United States and 
Europe — with directorial input often 
coming from hundreds of miles away   
Production crews used several digital Actress and comedienne Betty White records a voice-over for the film Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax.
 72
REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  MAKING OUR PRODUCTIONS MORE SUSTAINABLE
CONSERVING RESOURCES IN OUR 
PRODUCTION FACILITIES
In late 2012, we opened a new state-
of-the-art sports studio and operations 
center in Stamford, Connecticut, that will 
reduce the environmental impact of our 
sports programming  Our engineering 
group designed this 170,000-square-
foot facility with nearly 100% light-
emitting diode (LED) lighting —  
which uses up to 80% less energy than 
traditional incandescent lighting  
systems — plus a more energy-efficient 
heating, ventilation, and cooling system 
Built using recycled materials throughout, 
such as reclaimed wood on staircases 
and countertops, the facility includes an 
automated 24/7 Hubbell Lighting system 
that regulates our light usage  Part of the 
building’s roof is composed of natural 
grasses and a white thermoplastic 
polyolefin membrane — known for its 
heat-reflective qualities — which serve 
to reduce the temperatures of the 
roof surface and surrounding air   We 
also started several initiatives to help 
our Stamford employees reduce their 
transportation footprints, including 
adding six electric vehicle charging 
stations and a staff shuttle system  
for reverse commuters and mass  
transit riders 
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR OLYMPICS 
COVERAGE
During our coverage of the 2012 
London Olympic Games — the most 
environmentally sustainable Olympics 
ever — we reduced our footprint in a 
variety of ways  Staff members traveled 
in high-occupancy vehicles to limit 
fuel use and emissions  We provided 
drinking water in bulk to encourage 
the use of refillable water bottles  NBC 
Olympic Catering sourced more than 
90% of all food products from local sources to reduce the need for long-
haul transport, and ensured that 95% 
of our paper products for food services 
were made from recycled paper and/or 
were 100% compostable 
In addition, we increased our use of 
recycled materials during production 
and recycled all trash offsite  We even 
used recycled blue jeans to make the 
scenic acoustic panels in our Olympics 
studio rather than purchasing new 
acoustic panels  
GIVING NEW LIFE TO USED AND 
SURPLUS MATERIALS
We reuse, recycle, and repurpose 
many thousands of assets from our 
productions around the world  These 
materials — ranging from clothing and 
set decorations to household goods, 
paints, and wood — often go to 
schools and nonprofit organizations 
45,000 meals
We donated nearly 45,000 leftover 
meals from on-set catering services 
for 10 of our TV productions to 
charitable organizations in Los 
Angeles and New York City. 
Last year, we donated nearly 250 tons 
of materials used during the productions 
of Les Misérables, Anna Karenina, Fast 
& Furious 6, and several other films  We 
also donated nearly 45,000 leftover 
meals from on-set catering services for 
10 of our TV productions to charitable 
organizations in Los Angeles and New 
York City  LED lighting at the new NBC Sports studio and operations center in Stamford, Connecticut, uses up to 
80% less energy than traditional incandescent lights. 73
REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  ENCOURAGING CONSUMERS 
TO CONSERVE
As part of our environmental 
commitment, we look for ways 
to help our audiences and 
customers reduce their own 
impact. We find opportunities 
to educate and empower 
consumers to join our 
conservation efforts, showing 
them how even small acts can 
make a big difference.
GREEN IS UNIVERSAL:  
ONE SMALL ACT 
NBCUniversal’s Green is Universal 
initiative incorporates environmental 
responsibility  into almost everything 
we do, across all of our brands  The 
year-round initiative unifies our efforts 
to inform and entertain audiences with 
green-themed programming, consumer 
promotions, and events  It also pushes 
us to drive more sustainable practices in 
our own operations 
In 2012, we celebrated Earth Week (April 
15–22) with a new Green is Universal 
campaign called One Small Act  We 
asked consumers to pledge to do one 
thing — take one small step — that 
would have a positive impact on the 
environment  People could log in to 
greenisuniversal com  or use our One 
Small Act mobile app to make their 
pledges, set goals, track their progress, 
and share the experience with friends  
NBCUniversal stars joined the effort, 
delivering their own green tips to 
encourage participation 
By the end of Earth Week, more than 1 
million unique visitors had viewed One 
Small Act content, and they made more 
than 650 pledges  Their pledges resulted 
in savings of 7,846 pounds of waste, 
74,384 tons of carbon dioxide, and 97,768 gallons of water   Earth Week also 
featured green-themed programming, on-
air and digital promotions, and employee 
volunteer events and donation drives 
During the winter holiday season, we 
teamed with the Arbor Day Foundation 
on Green is Universal’s Share a Tree 
campaign  Participants could create 
a virtual ornament, spread the word 
through social media, or complete a 
pledge as part of One Small Act  For 
each of these actions, the Arbor Day 
Foundation planted a tree in a national 
forest or state park — 1 million in all 
UNIVERSAL ORLANDO RESORT
At Universal Orlando, we do more 
than entertain our guests; we educate 
them about our efforts to conserve and 
recycle, and we empower them to take 
part  In 2012, we emphasized reducing 
paper use and increasing recycling 
across the resort, with informative 
displays and multiple opportunities to 
recycle throughout the park 
We added 100 new recycling collection 
stations, bringing our total to more than 
2,200 across the resort  Teams across 
Universal Orlando cut their own paper 
use by moving to electronic, paperless systems, and printing only when 
necessary   Together with our guests, we 
recycled 1,152 tons of cardboard, 188 
tons of mixed office paper, 331 tons of 
plastic bottles, and 169 tons of mixed 
metals in 2012  In total, we recycled 
1,888 tons of waste from our total waste 
stream of 12,898 tons 
We also upgraded and replaced 
equipment throughout the resort to cut 
our energy consumption  By replacing 
69 air handlers, five chillers, four 
motor generators, and three attraction 
air compressors, we will save an 
estimated 1 5 million kilowatt hours in 
2013  To reduce our energy use even 
further, we’ve installed solar charging 
stations for our golf carts that generate 
approximately 13 kilowatts of power 
during peak periods  When they’re 
not charging golf carts, the stations 
direct solar power to nearby buildings, 
offsetting our use of commercial power  
NBCUniversal's Green is Universal environmental initiative incorporates environmental responsibility 
into almost everything we do.
1 million  
trees
Green is Universal’s Share a Tree 
campaign, in partnership with the Arbor 
Day Foundation, led to 1 million newly 
planted trees in 2012.  74
REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  OPERATING MORE EFFICIENTLY
Our commitment to reducing impact on the planet begins 
with our own operations. The size and scale of our business 
amplify the benefit of every step we take to conserve energy, 
reduce waste, and design more efficient solutions. From 
our data centers to our fleet of alternative-fuel vehicles to 
our in-home set-top cable boxes, we continually refine our 
operations through innovative thinking and technology. 
cold containment aisles to reduce the 
amount of energy needed for cooling, 
and installing a fiber topology to replace 
300,000 feet of copper cable  The new 
center also features power-metering 
sensors to monitor energy use  As 
a result of this effort, we retired and 
recycled 47 tons of hardware and cut 
power consumption by 11%  
ENERGY STAR® SET-TOP BOXES
At Comcast, we’re teaming up with 
manufacturers and suppliers to create 
smarter set-top cable boxes that 
conserve energy   Today, many of the 
set-top cable boxes in our customers’ 
homes — and all of the more than 20 
million digital transport adapters we’ve 
activated in the past three years — 
meet the U S  government’s ENERGY 
STAR® efficiency standards  By the end 
of 2013, 98% of our new set-top boxes 
will meet or exceed ENERGY STAR 
Version 3 standards 
We’re also finding new ways to build 
energy efficiency into our products  For 
example, we’re working with silicon 
chip manufacturers to build in energy-
saving features atop their “system on a chip” technology, which consolidates 
key functions on a single chip, requiring 
less power   And we’re exploring ways to 
move features such as program guides 
and apps out of the box and into the 
cloud  This gives the set-top box less to 
do, which in turn shrinks its energy needs 
Together with CableLabs and other 
vendors, we designed a set-top box 
that can automatically shift into a Light 
Sleep or Deep Sleep state, using only 
the power it needs for the task at hand  
We’ve already seen this feature cut 
energy use by 20% in our latest set-top 
box models  RETROFITTED NBCUNIVERSAL 
BUILDINGS
NBCUniversal renovated its New York 
facilities with a focus on energy efficiency, 
including approximately 400,000 square 
feet of real estate at 30 Rockefeller 
Plaza and 1221 Avenue of the Americas  
We replaced draft-prone glass with 
double-insulated windows; installed 
more efficient heating, ventilation, and 
cooling systems; and upgraded perimeter 
radiators  We also made several energy-
saving improvements to lighting  New 
occupancy sensors and dimmable lights 
prevent unnecessary energy use, and 
daylight harvesting systems help make 
the most of natural light  
VIRTUALIZED DATA CENTERS
Even as Comcast and NBCUniversal 
continue to grow, we’ve managed to 
reduce both our data center space needs 
and energy requirements  Requests 
handled by our data centers using 
server virtualization technology — which 
requires less electricity and fewer physical 
server deployments to resolve issues — 
increased from 36% in 2011 to 56% in 
2012  As our growth continues, we’re 
committed to making energy efficiency a 
priority when we open a new data center 
or expand one of our 12 existing facilities  
NBCUniversal “virtualized” 60% of the 
physical servers at its data center and 
shut down 2,000 physical machines  The 
refurbishing project involved creating 71%
At our largest data center — the 
10,000-square-foot North Lake 
Data Center in Illinois — new 
technologies draw on outdoor air to 
cool the center 71% of the year.
30%
More than 30% of all 
new connections to our 
cable services are self-
installations. That means fewer trips for 
Comcast Cable trucks, reducing our fuel 
usage and greenhouse gas emissions.  75
REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  FLEET AND HYBRID 
TRANSPORTATION
We operate the fifth largest commercial 
fleet in the United States overall, and 
the 12th largest commercial fleet of 
hybrid vehicles  This gives us a powerful 
opportunity to model efficient practices, 
raising the bar in our own industry and 
others  Our fleet features the largest 
percentage of alternative-fuel-capable 
vehicles in our industry, at 21%  
Our new vehicle procurement is 80% 
alternative-fuel capable, and all of 
our vans, light-duty pickups, and 
passenger vehicles are either flex-fuel 
capable or hybrids  As we continue to 
purchase alternative-fuel vehicles, we’re 
also exploring new technologies with 
automobile manufacturers, including 
electric and natural-gas power   Our first 
full-size van retrofitted to run on electric 
power with vehicle-to-grid technology 
is now in use, and we plan to add a 
second electric vehicle in 2013 
We’re also exploring natural gas–
powered vehicles, although this kind of 
fuel is not yet widely available on the 
scale our fleet requires  We’ve increased 
home garaging and home networking 
to improve productivity and decrease 
fuel use and vehicle emissions  As the 
national infrastructure for alternative 
fuels continues to improve, so will our 
efficiency, as our drivers will refuel 
vehicles without straying too far from  
their optimal routes 
REDUCED TRUCK ROLLS
Empowering our customers to easily 
install our products themselves creates 
a better experience for them and helps 
us conserve resources by reducing the 
miles that our technicians drive  Product 
innovations and expanded self-service 
options resulted in Comcast Cable trucks 
taking 4 5 million fewer trips in 2012 OPERATING MORE EFFICIENTLY
Many Comcast customers can install or 
upgrade our products on their own with 
our self-install kits  They can also solve 
product or service issues online without 
a visit from a Comcast technician  When 
a home visit is necessary, additional 
training has helped our technicians 
successfully install or repair service 
for more customers in that first visit, 
eliminating the need for follow-up trips  
GPS TECHNOLOGY
GPS technology helps us make smarter, 
more efficient choices in routing our 
vehicles and also reduces idling and 
overall maintenance costs  Through 
a program called Idling Gets You 
Nowhere, we shared tracking and 
reporting information with each 
Comcast technician, highlighting 
their individual idle times  Based on 
this information, our technicians are 
substantially reducing idling by shutting 
off their vehicles — idling almost three 
hours a month less than before we 
installed GPS  
In 2012, 8,800 vehicles were equipped 
with GPS technology, saving 302,520 
gallons of gasoline and reducing our 
carbon footprint by 1,125 6 cubic tons 
VIRTUAL CUSTOMER CARE 
REPRESENTATIVES
Our most successful initiatives have an 
impact on multiple levels  For instance, 
nearly 1,400 of our customer care  
agents — about 7% of our entire care  
staff — work from home through our 
virtual customer care representative 
program  The program has improved 
satisfaction among employees and gives 
them flexibility to work part-time or in split 
shifts  And it reduces our need to build 
new call centers and expand existing ones  
Since employees in the program don’t 
commute, it’s also helped reduce carbon 
emissions associated with our business  7,500+
Comcast operates 
more than 7,500 
hybrid and flex-fuel vehicles. We have 
decreased our use of unleaded gasoline 
by 180,000 gallons and cut greenhouse 
gas emissions by more than 25%.302,520  
gallons
In 2012, 8,800 vehicles were  
equipped with GPS technology, saving 
302,520 gallons of gasoline and reducing 
our carbon footprint by 1,125.6 cubic tons . 76
REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  COMCAST CENTER
Comcast’s headquarters in downtown 
Philadelphia is one of the tallest 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED®) certified buildings in 
the United States, with energy-efficient 
features at every turn 
• High-performance window glass 
blocks 60% of heat 
• Strategies to maximize daylight 
reduce the need for lighting 
• Water-saving fixtures save 3 million 
gallons of drinking water each year  
• 80% of wood products come from 
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) 
certified forests OPERATING MORE EFFICIENTLY
WELLS FARGO CENTER 
COMPOSTING PROGRAM
Comcast-Spectacor, our Philadelphia-
based sports and entertainment firm, 
rolled out a new composting program 
at the Wells Fargo Center, extending 
our commitment to waste reduction and 
including fans in our efforts  The firm is 
partnering with Waste Management to 
collect and compost all of the food waste 
at the center, diverting it from landfills  
Comcast-Spectacor is also working with 
Aramark to supply compostable service-
ware in all concessions and premium 
seating areas at the center, which is 
home to the Philadelphia Flyers NHL 
hockey and the Philadelphia 76ers NBA 
basketball teams  
RECYCLING IN OUR WAREHOUSES
Every aspect of our business offers an 
opportunity to refine, revise, and rethink 
our processes with efficiency in mind  
For example, we’ve installed balers 
and compactors in the majority of our 
Comcast facilities, making it easier to 
bundle unused cardboard for recycling  
This more efficient system has reduced 
waste significantly — by more than 50% 
Comcast’s headquarters in downtown 
Philadelphia is one of the tallest buildings 
certified by LEED® for energy-efficient design.
A living wall plant landscape at the NBCUniversal 
Studio 9C cafeteria.SUSTAINABLE DINING AT STUDIO  
9C AND RALPH’S CAFE
Sustainability is a top priority at 
NBCUniversal’s Studio 9C cafeteria in 
New York City and Ralph’s Cafe, located 
in Comcast’s Philadelphia headquarters  
Both dining facilities serve seasonal 
and local produce sourced from within 
a 150-mile radius, along with cage-free 
eggs and hormone-free beef  They also 
follow the Monterey Bay Aquarium’s 
sustainable guidelines, serving only 
fresh fish, not frozen 
Employees who dine at Studio 9C 
and Ralph’s Cafe use reusable dishes 
and silverware  And at Ralph’s Cafe, 
filtered water is served to reduce plastic 
consumption 
Both facilities were also designed with 
sustainability in mind  Studio 9C, rebuilt 
in 2012, has low-emitting recycled 
flooring materials, motion-activated 
faucets to conserve water, 67 windows 
to reduce the need for artificial lighting, 
and living wall plant landscapes that 
improve air quality, reduce noise, and 
cool the air naturally   Ralph’s Cafe 
uses motion-activated lighting in its 
refrigeration units and LED lights in other 
equipment to help consume less energy  
$35 million
At the end of 2012, 6 million Comcast 
customers — 27% of our customer base 
— had enrolled in Ecobill®, our paperless 
billing program. This represents more 
than $35 million in annual savings for 
the company and reduces paper waste in 
homes and businesses across the country.100%  
recyclable
Our vendors have replaced the 
Styrofoam end-caps used to secure 
equipment in transit to our warehouses 
with end caps made of 100% recyclable 
pulp. Other supplier improvements 
include bulk packaging to cut back 
on materials, and smaller or online 
manuals for set-top boxes to reduce 
paper use. 77
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Comcast and NBCUniversal’s Diversity Councils were ranked No  5 among the 2012 Top 
25 Diversity Councils by the Association of Diversity Councils, marking Comcast’s fourth 
consecutive year on the Top 25 list 
Comcast was recognized as one of  DiversityInc’s  25 Noteworthy Companies for the third 
consecutive year in 2012  
Black Enterprise  magazine selected Comcast as one of its 40 Best Companies  
for Diversity  
Comcast Corporation was selected as the Company of the Year (No  1) in LATINA Style 
magazine’s 50 Best Companies for Latinas to Work for in 2012 
Comcast and NBCUniversal ranked No  9 among  Hispanic Business  magazine’s Top 60 
corporations for diversity in 2012, marking Comcast’s eighth consecutive year on the list 
Comcast received the 2012 Workforce Diversity Award from the National Association of 
Black Accountants, Inc 
Comcast received the Outstanding Achievement in Workforce Initiatives honor from the 
Philadelphia Chapter of the National Association of Black Accountants, Inc 
For the second year in a row, Comcast was named among  Asian Enterprise  
magazine’s Fortune 500 Best Companies for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders 
Comcast received a Corporate Impact Award at the California Asian & Pacific Islander 
Policy Summit 2012, iADVOCATE  
Comcast and NBCUniversal were awarded the 2nd Annual Hiring Our Heroes Lee 
Anderson Award for Excellence in Veteran and Military Spouse Employment by the U S  
Chamber of Commerce and its National Chamber Foundation 
Comcast and NBCUniversal were named one of U.S. Veterans Magazine’s 2012 Best of 
the Best: Top 100 Companies for Recruiting Veterans 
For the sixth consecutive year, Comcast was named among the 10 Best U S  
Corporations for Veteran-Owned Businesses by the National Veteran-Owned Business 
Association 
Comcast scored 80 points out of 100 on the Human Rights Campaign’s 2012 Corporate 
Equality Index, which rates large U S  employers and their policies and procedures 
pertinent to LGBT employees 
For the second year in a row in 2012, NBCUniversal was selected as one of Work Life 
Matters magazine’s Top Companies for LGBT Equality   
The Equality Forum honored NBCUniversal with its International Business  
Leadership Award 
Comcast was selected as one of CAREERS & the disABLED Magazine’ s 2012 Reader’s 
Choice Top 50 Employers  78
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Universal Orlando won a 2012 Exceptional Employer Award from the State of Florida’s 
Agency for Persons with Disabilities  
Comcast was named one of the 2012 Best Adoption-Friendly Workplaces by the Dave 
Thomas Foundation for Adoption  
For the seventh consecutive year in 2012, DiversityBusiness com recognized Comcast 
among its Top 50 Organizations for Multicultural Business Opportunities  
In 2012, NAMIC recognized Comcast and NBCUniversal for our efforts to acquire and 
retain culturally diverse customers with multiple Excellence in Multi-Cultural Marketing 
Awards, including awards for direct mail, grassroots, and print tactics  
The Rocky Mountain Minority Supplier Development Council named Comcast its 
Corporate Partner of the Year in 2012  
NBCUniversal was named 2012 Corporation of the Year by the Greater Los Angeles 
African American Chamber of Commerce  
Comcast Cable was the first-ever recipient of Broadcasting & Cable  and Multichannel 
News ’ new award for Leadership in Hispanic Television presented in 2012  
The American Association of People with Disabilities honored USA Network with its 
Image Award in 2012  
MSNBC received a 2012 Diversity and Inclusion Award (DANDI) in the Media category   
NBCUniversal won several GLAAD Media Awards in 2012, including: 
• NBC’s  Days of Our Lives was named Outstanding Daily Drama Series 
• Focus Features’ Pariah  was honored as Outstanding Film — Limited Release and 
Beginners  was honored as Outstanding Film — Wide Release
• Telemundo’s “Lesbianas celebran 10 años” episode of Caso Cerrado  was honored as 
Outstanding Daytime Talk Show Episode
• mun2’s Las Aparicio  received the award for Outstanding Novela
United Way awarded Comcast and NBCUniversal two Spirit of America Summit Awards 
for our philanthropy and volunteerism work in 2012 
Comcast was ranked No  1 among the Top 50 Green Fleets in 2012 by Fleet  
Central Magazine  
Comcast was named MSO of the Year by  CableFAX: The Magazine.
For the seventh year in a row, Comcast was named one of the Top 10 Places to Work in 
Cable by  CableFAX: The Magazine.AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 79
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  LEADERSHIP AND PROFESSIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
Comcast and NBCUniversal use proven methods — formal mentoring, executive leadership, 
boot camp programs, and incentives — to identify, hire, and promote high-potential employees 
from diverse backgrounds. We currently offer more than 100 leadership development and 
training opportunities for our employees.
INTERNAL PROGRAMS
CNBC
• Leadership Development Program 
• Mentoring Program
COMCAST AND NBCUNIVERSAL 
• Executive Leadership Forum
• Finance Career Opportunities and Rotational Experiences (Finance CORE) Program 
• Financial Management Leadership Program
COMCAST CABLE  
• Comcast Leadership Engineering Achievements & Relationships (CLEAR) Mentoring Program 
• Executive Leadership Career Advancement Program
COMCAST CABLE AND COMCAST CORPORATION 
• Comcast University 
• Comcast Women in Leadership Program at University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School
• Employee Resource Group Mentoring Program 
• Foundations of Organizational Leadership
• High Tech Management and Leadership Program
• Linked to Leadership
• Women’s Series for Executive Presence  
COMCAST SPOTLIGHT
• Associate Account Executive Program 
• Comcast Spotlight’s Women in Leadership Programs 
• Leadership Exposure and Development
• Tomorrow’s Leaders Today
COMCAST-SPECTACOR 
• How You Growin’? 80
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  LEADERSHIP AND PROFESSIONAL  
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
MEDIA WORKS 
• Operations & Technology Leadership Program
NBC ENTERTAINMENT 
• Directing Fellowship Program 
• Scene Showcase 
• Short Cuts Festival 
• Stand-Up for Diversity 
• Talent Diversity Initiative 
• Writer’s Assistant Program 
NBC NEWS 
• NBC News Diversity Leadership Program 
NBC OWNED TELEVISION STATIONS  
• Reporter Training Program 
• Sales Associates Program 
NBC SPORTS GROUP 
• Sports Associate Program 
NBCUNIVERSAL 
• Casting Apprentice Program 
• Diversity Staff Writer Initiative 
• Entertainment Associate Leadership Program 
• News Associates Program 
• TEAM NBCUniversal 
• West Coast Page Program and East Coast Page Program
• Writers on the Verge (NBC Entertainment, USA, and Syfy)
NBCUNIVERSAL CABLE AND EMERGING NETWORKS 
• PITCH DAY
• Syfy Global Exchange Program 
NBCUNIVERSAL CORPORATE 
• Human Resources Leadership Development Program 81
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  UNIVERSAL PARKS AND RESORTS 
• Developing Leadership Talent Program 
• Universal Orlando Human Resources Mentoring Program 
UNIVERSAL PICTURES  
• Universal Pictures Leadership Program 
• Universal Pictures Mentorship Program 
UNIVERSAL TELEVISION 
• Production Apprentice Program  
PARTNERSHIPS WITH EXTERNAL ORGANIZATIONS
COMCAST AND NBCUNIVERSAL 
• Betsy Magness Leadership Institute
• National Association for Multi-Ethnicity in Communications (NAMIC) Executive Leadership 
Development Program 
• Women in Cable Telecommunications (WICT) 
COMCAST 
• Cable Executive Management class at Harvard Business School, sponsored by the Cable & 
Telecommunications Association for Marketing (CTAM) Educational Foundation 
• NAMIC Leadership Seminar 
• WICT Rising Leaders Program 
NBCUNIVERSAL 
• Coalition of Asian Pacifics in Entertainment New Writers Fellowship 
• Lincoln Center Theater Commissioning Program 
• National Hispanic Media Coalition Writers Program 
• Sundance Institute’s Native American and Indigenous Program LEADERSHIP AND PROFESSIONAL  
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS 82
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  INTERNSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS, AND SCHOLARSHIPS
CNBC
• CNBC Internship Program 
• CNBC Internship Program—Digital 
• CNBC Summer Fellowship Program
COMCAST AND NBCUNIVERSAL 
• Comcast Founders Scholars 
• Comcast Leaders and Achievers® Scholarship Program 
• The Emma L  Bowen Foundation for Minority Interests in Media 
• Gustave G  Amsterdam Leadership Award 
• INROADS 
• T  Howard Foundation 
COMCAST 
• Comcast Hardware Innovation Program 
• Cristo Rey Network Work Study Program  
• Media Sales Institute 
• National Engineering & Technical Operations Engineering and Technology Program 
• Philadelphia Youth Network/WorkReady Philadelphia 
COMCAST-SPECTACOR
• How You Growin’? Internship Program
DAILYCANDY 
• DailyCandy Internships  
iVILLAGE 
• iVillage Internship Program 
MEDIA WORKS 
• Media Works Internship Program 
• Operations & Technology Leadership Program and Internship Program 
NBCUNIVERSAL CABLE ENTERTAINMENT 
• Crenshaw High School—Business Management & Entrepreneurship Academy
• Hollywood Arts 
• NBCUniversal Canadian Fellowship 
• Promax Promo Pathway InternshipLEADERSHIP AND PROFESSIONAL  
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS 83
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  NBCUNIVERSAL CORPORATE 
• East Coast Legal Clerkships 
 NBC ENTERTAINMENT 
• NBC/Peoples Improv Theater Diversity Scholarship 
• NBC/Upright Citizens Brigade Advanced Improv Diversity Scholarship Showcase 
NBCUNIVERSAL ENTERTAINMENT & DIGITAL NETWORKS/INTEGRATED MEDIA 
• Digital Ad Sales Internship Program 
NBC NEWS 
• Frank Sinatra School of the Arts High School 
• International Radio and Television Society Summer Fellowship 
• NBC News Internship Program 
• NBC News Summer Fellowship Program  
• The Tim Russert Fellowship Program 
• The Walter Cronkite Fellowship  
NBC OWNED TELEVISION STATIONS  
• Local Television Stations Internship Programs 
TELEMUNDO 
• Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute — Telemundo Scholars 
• Florida International University: Hispanic Media Futures Program 
• Modalidad de Experiencia Profesional (Monterrey Tech) 
UNIVERSAL PARKS AND RESORTS 
• Constitutional Rights Foundation Internship Program 
• High School Finance Internship Program  
• Technical Services Internship Program 
• Universal Education Center School-Work Program  
• Universal Orlando’s Domestic College Internship Program 
UNIVERSAL PICTURES  
• Universal Pictures Internship Program LEADERSHIP AND PROFESSIONAL  
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS 84
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  2012 FOUNDATION GIVING
The following is a list of organizations that have received contributions from our 
foundations in 2012.
Grantee Legal Name Grantee City Grantee State
100 Black Men of Atlanta, Inc Atlanta GA
211 Brevard, Inc Cocoa FL
360 Communities Burnsville MN
826LA Los Angeles CA
A Better Life Pet Rescue Ocoee FL
A Gift for Teaching Orlando FL
A Window Between Worlds Venice CA
A W ’S O M E Ministries Orlando FL
Ability Beyond Disability, Inc Bethel CT
Accion Communal Latino Americano De Montgomery County, Inc Norristown PA
Achieve Minneapolis Minneapolis MN
Action Ministries, Inc Rome GA
Adairsville Elementary School Adairsville GA
Adult Literacy League Orlando FL
Aeon Minneapolis MN
African American Museum Philadelphia PA
African Development Center Minneapolis MN
Albertina Kerr Centers Foundation, Inc Portland OR
Albuquerque Boys Club, Inc Albuquerque NM
Albuquerque Hispano Chamber of Commerce Foundation Albuquerque NM
Alcorn State University Alumni Association of Washington, DC Metro Area Alcorn State MS
Alpha Kappa Alpha Educational Advancement Foundation, Inc Chicago IL
Alternatives Inc Chicago IL
Alternatives To Violence, Inc Raton NM
Alum Rock Union School District San Jose CA
American Association of People with Disabilities Washington DC
American Cancer Society Orlando FL
American Diabetes Association Orlando FL
American Indian Center, Inc Chicago IL
American Indian OIC, Inc Minneapolis MN 85
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  American Lung Association Orlando FL
American National Red Cross Oakland CA
Farmington CT
Atlanta GA
Chicago IL
Fort Wayne IN
Cambridge MA
Baltimore MD
Detroit MI
Minneapolis MN
Tupelo MS
Manchester NH
Philadelphia PA
Nashville TN
Salt Lake City UT
Burlington VT
Amherst H  Wilder Foundation St  Paul MN
Amigos Together For Kids, Inc Miami FL
Andrew Drumm Institute Independence MO
Animal Humane Society Golden Valley MN
Arab Community Center For Economic & Social Services Access Dearborn MI
Arc Greater Twin Cities St  Paul MN
Arc Massachusetts Waltham MA
Arc of New Jersey, Inc Washington NJ
Arcadia University Glenside PA
Arnold Palmer Medical Center Foundation Orlando FL
Asian American Leadership Empowerment & Development For Youth & Family Washington DC
Asian And Pacific Islander American Vote, Inc Arlington VA
Asian Association of Utah Salt Lake City UT
Asian Pacific American Institute For Congressional Studies, Inc Washington DC
Asian Pacific Islander American Public Affairs Community Education Foundation Sacramento CA
Asociacion Puertorriquenos En Marcha, Inc Philadelphia PA
Aspira Association, Inc Washington DC
Aspira Inc  of Pennsylvania Philadelphia PA2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 86
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  2012 FOUNDATION GIVING
Aspira of Florida Inc Miami FL
Aspiranet San Francisco CA
Association For The Advancement of Mexican Americans Houston TX
Association House of Chicago Chicago IL
Atlanta Community Food Bank, Inc Atlanta GA
Atlanta HBCU Alumni Alliance Marietta GA
Atlanta Workforce Development Board, Inc Atlanta GA
Audubon Society of Greater Denver Littleton CO
Aurora Public Schools Education Foundation Aurora CO
AWOL - All Walks of Life, Inc Savannah GA
Baltimore Delta Alumnae Foundation, Inc Baltimore MD
Barnes Foundation Philadelphia PA
Bartlett House, Inc Morgantown WV
Base Camp for Children’s Cancer Winter Park FL
Batavia Community Chest Batavia IL
Bay High School Panama City FL
Be The Change, Inc Boston MA
Be The Match Foundation Minneapolis MN
Better Days Animal League Shippensburg PA
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Will & Grundy Counties Joliet IL
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Middle Tennessee Nashville TN
Big Brothers Big Sisters of San Juan County, Inc Farmington NM
Big Brothers Big Sisters of West Central Illinois Jacksonville IL
Big Brothers Big Sisters Lone Star Houston TX
Big Brothers Big Sisters Michigan Capital Region Lansing MI
Big Brothers Big Sisters Northwest Portland OR
Big Brothers Big Sisters of America Philadelphia PA
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Bath Brunswick Brunswick ME
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Berks County Reading PA
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Broward, Inc Fort Lauderdale FL
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Bucks County, Inc Jamison PA
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Central Arkansas, Inc North Little Rock AR
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Central Illinois Decatur IL
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Central Indiana, Inc Indianapolis IN 87
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Big Brothers Big Sisters of Elkhart County, Inc Elkhart IN
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Essex Hudson & Union Counties NJ, Inc Newark NJ
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Flint Flint MI
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Lafayette, Inc Lafayette IN
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Manchester, Inc Manchester NH
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Memphis Memphis TN
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Miami Miami FL
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Nashua, Inc Nashua NH
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Pittsburgh Pittsburgh PA
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Kentuckiana, Inc Louisville KY
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Lancaster County PA, Inc Lititz PA
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Mercer County, Inc Trenton NJ
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metropolitan Chicago Chicago IL
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metropolitan Detroit Detroit MI
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Mississippi Jackson MS
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Monroe County, Inc Monroe MI
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Muskegon Muskegon MI
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Northeast Florida, Inc Jacksonville FL
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Northeast Indiana, Inc Fort Wayne IN
Big Brothers Big Sisters of St  Joseph County, Inc South Bend IN
Big Brothers Big Sisters of St  Lucie Indian River & Okeechobee County Fort Pierce FL
Big Brothers Big Sisters of The Capital Region, Inc Harrisburg PA
Big Brothers Big Sisters of The Greater Chesapeake, Inc Baltimore MD
Big Brothers Big Sisters of The Greater Seacoast Portsmouth NH
Big Brothers Big Sisters of The Greater Twin Cities St  Paul MN
Big Brothers Big Sisters of The Illinois Capital Region, Inc Springfield IL
Big Brothers Big Sisters of The Inland Northwest Spokane WA
Big Brothers Big Sisters of The Laurel Region Greensburg PA
Big Brothers Big Sisters of The Sun Coast, Inc Venice FL
Big Brothers Big Sisters of The Upper Ohio Valley, Inc Wheeling WV
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Utah, Inc Murray UT
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Washtenaw County Ann Arbor MI
Big Brothers Big Sisters of York County, Inc York PA
Big Pine Elementary, Inc Big Pine Key FL2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 88
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Black Leadership Council For Excellence, Inc Waldorf MD
Blood Assurance, Inc Chattanooga TN
Blood Bank of Delmarva, Inc Newark DE
Blood Systems, Inc Albuquerque NM
Bonfils Blood Center Foundation Denver CO
Boone High School Orlando FL
Borderland Boys & Girls Club Gallup NM
Borough of Hummelstown Hummelstown PA
Boston Chinatown Neighborhood Center, Inc Boston MA
Boulder County Housing Authority Boulder CO
Boy Scouts of America Pueblo CO
Atlanta GA
Manchester NH
Lancaster PA
Mechanicsburg PA
Boys & Girls Club of Atlantic City Atlantic City NJ
Boys & Girls Club of Augusta-Waynesboro Waynesboro VA
Boys & Girls Club of Bay County, Inc Panama City FL
Boys & Girls Club of Bloomington- Normal Bloomington IL
Boys & Girls Club of Burlington, Inc Burlington VT
Boys & Girls Club of Camden County, Inc Camden NJ
Boys & Girls Club of Central Arkansas Little Rock AR
Boys & Girls Club of Danville, Illinois Danville IL
Boys & Girls Club of Decatur Decatur IL
Boys & Girls Club of Dundee Township, Inc Carpentersville IL
Boys & Girls Club of Frederick County, Inc Frederick MD
Boys & Girls Club of Ft  Wayne, Inc Fort Wayne IN
Boys & Girls Club of Greater Flint Flint MI
Boys & Girls Club of Greater Holyoke, Inc Holyoke MA
Boys & Girls Club of Greater Vergennes, Inc Vergennes VT
Boys & Girls Club of Greater Westfield Westfield MA
Boys & Girls Club of Harrisburg, Inc Harrisburg PA
Boys & Girls Club of Highlands County Sebring FL
Boys & Girls Club of Jacksonville Jacksonville AR2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 89
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Boys & Girls Club of Knox County, Inc Galesburg IL
Boys & Girls Club of Lancaster Lancaster PA
Boys & Girls Club of Lansing Lansing MI
Boys & Girls Club of Plymouth Plymouth MA
Boys & Girls Club of Richmond VA, Inc Richmond VA
Boys & Girls Club of Rockford Rockford IL
Boys & Girls Club of Rutland Rutland VT
Boys & Girls Club of Salem Marion & Polk Counties, Inc Salem OR
Boys & Girls Club of Somerset County Somerset PA
Boys & Girls Club of South Oakland County Royal Oak MI
Boys & Girls Club of Southeastern Connecticut, Inc New London CT
Boys & Girls Club of The Big Bend, Inc Tallahassee FL
Boys & Girls Club of The Eastern Panhandle Martinsburg WV
Boys & Girls Club of The Peninsula Menlo Park CA
Boys & Girls Club of The Pikes Peak Region Colorado Springs CO
Boys & Girls Club of The Wiregrass, Inc Dothan AL
Boys & Girls Club of Trenton-Mercer County, Inc Trenton NJ
Boys & Girls Club of Tucson Tucson AZ
Boys & Girls Club of Vineland, Inc Vineland NJ
Boys & Girls Club of West Cook County, Inc Bellwood IL
Boys & Girls Club of Westminster, Inc Westminster MD
Boys & Girls Club of Woburn, Inc Woburn MA
Boys & Girls Clubs of America Atlanta GA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Annapolis & Anne Arundel County, Inc Annapolis MD
Boys & Girls Clubs of Boston, Inc Boston MA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Central Florida Orlando FL
Boys & Girls Clubs of Central Virginia Charlottesville VA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Chicago, Inc Chicago IL
Boys & Girls Clubs of Delaware Wilmington DE
Boys & Girls Clubs of East Mississippi, Inc Meridian MS
Boys & Girls Clubs of Emerald Valley Eugene OR
Boys & Girls Clubs of Fresno County Fresno CA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Gloucester County, Inc Glassboro NJ
Boys & Girls Clubs of Greater Houston, Inc Houston TX2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 90
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Boys & Girls Clubs of Greater Memphis Memphis TN
Boys & Girls Clubs of Greater Washington, Inc Washington DC
Boys & Girls Clubs of Hudson County Jersey City NJ
Boys & Girls Clubs of Indianapolis, Inc Indianapolis IN
Boys & Girls Clubs of King County Federal Way WA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Marin & Southern Sonoma Counties Petaluma CA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Metro Atlanta, Inc Atlanta GA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Metro Denver, Inc Denver CO
Boys & Girls Clubs of Metropolitan Baltimore Baltimore MD
Boys & Girls Clubs of North Central Georgia, Inc Monroe GA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Northeast Florida, Inc Jacksonville FL
Boys & Girls Clubs of Northeast Louisiana, Inc West Monroe LA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Northeastern Pennsylvania Scranton PA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Northwest Indiana, Inc Gary IN
Boys & Girls Clubs of Oakland Inc Oakland CA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Palm Beach County, Inc West Palm Beach FL
Boys & Girls Clubs of Philadelphia, Inc Philadelphia PA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Portland Metropolitan Area Portland OR
Boys & Girls Clubs of Sarasota County, Inc Sarasota FL
Boys & Girls Clubs of South Puget Sound Tacoma WA
Boys & Girls Clubs of South Valley Murray UT
Boys & Girls Clubs of Southern Maryland North Beach MD
Boys & Girls Clubs of The Blue Ridge, Inc Martinsville VA
Boys & Girls Clubs of The Central Savannah River Area, Inc Augusta GA
Boys & Girls Clubs of The Tennessee Valley Knoxville TN
Boys & Girls Clubs of The Twin Cities St  Paul MN
Boys & Girls Clubs of Thurston County Olympia WA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Western PA Pittsburgh PA
Boys & Girls Clubs of Whatcom County Bellingham WA
Bridge Communities, Inc Glen Ellyn IL
Bridging Incorporated Bloomington MN
Bristol Boys & Girls Club Association, Inc Bristol CT
Brunswick Community Center For Senior Citizens Brunswick ME
Buddy Foundation Arlington Heights IL2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 91
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Build Little Cubs Field Freeport IL
Buildon, Inc Stamford CT
Bushnell Traveling Basketball Association Avon IL
Business Leadership Organized For Catholic Schools Radnor PA
By The Hand Club For Kids Chicago IL
Byte Back Washington DC
Caitlin’s Smiles, Inc Harrisburg PA
Camp Boggy Creek Eustis FL
Camp Fire USA Portland OR
Campbell Street Family Youth And Community Association, Inc Williamsport PA
Candy’s Cats, Inc Orlando FL
Canine Companions for Independence Orlando FL
Canyons School District Education Foundation Sandy UT
Cape & Islands United Way Hyannis MA
Care and Share, Inc Colorado Springs CO
Caring For Miami, Inc Palmetto Bay FL
Carousel Family Services, Inc South Bend IN
Casa De Maryland, Inc Langley Park MD
Casa Nueva Vida, Inc Boston MA
Casa P  R A C , Inc Vineland NJ
Catalyst Schools Chicago IL
Catholic Central High School of Detroit Novi MI
CBM Ministries, Inc Greencastle PA
Center for Drug Free Living Orlando FL
Center For Family Services, Inc Camden NJ
Center For Literacy, Inc Philadelphia PA
Center For Multicultural Cooperation Fresno CA
Center For Pan Asian Community Services, Inc Atlanta GA
Center For Training & Careers Inc San Jose CA
Central Florida Autism Institute Lakeland FL
Central Florida Christian Academy Orlando FL
Central Florida YMCA Orlando FL
Central Indiana Regional Blood Center Indianapolis IN
Central Pennsylvania Blood Bank Hummelstown PA2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 92
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Centre County United Way State College PA
Centre Regional Recreation Authority State College PA
Centro De La Familia De Utah Salt Lake City UT
Centro Romero Chicago IL
Centronia Washington DC
Change Happens CDC Houston TX
Chariot Riders, Inc Manchester NJ
Charleston Orphan House, Inc North Charleston SC
Cherry Creek School District Parent Teacher Community Council, Inc Aurora CO
Cheyenne Mountain Zoological Society Colorado Springs CO
Chicago Urban League Chicago IL
Chicago Wilderness Trust Chicago IL
Chicano & Latino Youth Leadership Project Los Angeles CA
Chicano Federation Of San Diego County San Diego CA
Chichester School District Aston PA
Children’s Advocacy Center of The Lookout Mountain Judicial Circuit Fort Oglethorpe GA
Chinese American Service League, Inc Chicago IL
Chinese School of CAACF , Inc  Orlando FL
Choice Is Yours, Inc Camden NJ
Christian Service Center Orlando FL
Christmas In April - Cecil County, Inc Rising Sun MD
Christmas In April - Prince Georges County, Inc Clinton MD
City of Colorado Springs Colorado Springs CO
City of Fife Fife WA
City of Griffin Griffin GA
City of Jackson Jackson MI
City of Jonesboro Jonesboro GA
City of Laurel Laurel MS
City of Logan Logan UT
City of Lynn Haven Lynn Haven FL
City of Portales Portales NM
City of South Salt Lake Arts Council, Inc Salt Lake City UT
City of Springfield Springfield MA
City of Tucumcari Tucumcari NM2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 93
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  City of York York PA
City Year, Inc Los Angeles CA
Denver CO
Washington DC
Miami FL
Orlando FL
Chicago IL
Boston MA
Detroit MI
Manchester NH
New York NY
Philadelphia PA
Seattle WA
Clark Atlanta University, Inc Atlanta GA
Clarkston Community Center Foundation, Inc Clarkston GA
Clean Ocean Action, Inc Highlands NJ
Clearwater Little League - Challenger Division Clearwater FL
Clinton County United Way Lock Haven PA
Coalition for the Homeless New York NY
College Settlement of Philadelphia Horsham PA
Colorado Wolf and Wildlife Center Divide CO
Columbus House New Haven CT
Commodore Macdonough School Middletown CT
Communipaw Avenue Block Association New Jersey NJ
Community & Economic Development Association of Cook County, Inc Chicago IL
Community Food Bank, Inc Tucson AZ
Community Nutrition Network & Senior Services Association Cook County Chicago IL
Community Partnership School Philadelphia PA
Community Service Programs of West Alabama, Inc Tuscaloosa AL
Community United Way of Pioneer Valley, Inc Springfield MA
Comunidades Latinas Unidas En Servicio, Inc Minneapolis MN
Concerned Citizens of North Camden Camden NJ
Concilio De Organizaciones Hispanas Philadelphia PA
Concord Boys & Girls Club Concord NH2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 94
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Conductive Education Center of Orlando Orlando FL
Congreso De Latinos Unidos, Inc Philadelphia PA
Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, Inc Washington DC
Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute, Inc Washington DC
Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute, Inc Washington DC
Connors Catty Shack & Animal Sanctuary Orlando FL
Conservation Foundation Naperville IL
Cool Girls, Inc Atlanta GA
Coppin State College Development Foundation, Inc Baltimore MD
Cornerstone Hospice House (Mike Conley House) Clermont FL
Corvallis Community Children’s Centers, Inc Corvallis OR
County of Montgomery Norristown PA
Covenant House California Los Angeles CA
Covenant House Georgia, Inc Atlanta GA
Covenant House Texas Houston TX
CPAC Community Foundation, Inc Fayetteville GA
Cradles To Crayons, Inc Brighton MA
West 
ConshohockenPA
Cray Youth and Family Services Inc New Castle PA
Crisis Ministries Charleston SC
Cristo Rey Community Center Lansing MI
Crossroads For Kids, Inc Duxbury MA
Cuban American National Council, Inc Miami FL
Cypress Creek High School Orlando FL
Cypress Ridge Elementary School Clermont FL
DeBary Little League Debary FL
Delta Lamba Foundation, Inc Baltimore MD
Denver Indian Center, Inc Denver CO
Denver Public Schools Foundation Denver CO
Denver Scholarship Foundation Denver CO
Detroit Parent Network Detroit MI
Detroit Urban League Detroit MI
Disabled American Veterans Charitable Service Trust Cold Spring KY2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 95
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Down Syndrome Association of Central Florida Winter Park FL
Downtown Women’s Center Los Angeles CA
Dr  Phillips Center for the Performing Arts Orlando FL
Dr  Phillips High School Orlando FL
Dr  Phillips Pop Warner Orlando FL
Dr  Phillips YMCA Orlando FL
Dreamtree Project, Inc Taos NM
Dress For Success Denver, Ltd Denver CO
Dupage Convalescent Center Foundation Wheaton IL
East Metro Women’s Council White Bear Lake MN
East Orange Little League Orlando FL
Easter Seals, Inc Chicago IL
Eastside Audubon Society Kirkland WA
Eccleston Elementary Orlando FL
Ed Snider Youth Hockey Foundation Philadelphia PA
Edgewood Children’s Ranch Orlando FL
Educacion Para Nuestro Futuro Founded By Escuela Bolivia Arlington VA
Edward M  Kennedy Institute For The United States Senate, Inc Boston MA
El Centro De La Raza Seattle WA
El Valor Corporation Chicago IL
Elijah Cummings Youth Program In Israel, Inc Baltimore MD
Emma L  Bowen Foundation For Minority Interests In Media, Inc Washington DC
Empowerment Group, Inc Philadelphia PA
Enable of Georgia Foundation, Inc Roswell GA
Entermission, Inc Granger IN
Enterprise Center Philadelphia PA
Equality California Institute San Francisco CA
Erie Neighborhood House Chicago IL
Evangelical Baptist Church North Haven CT
Everett Public Schools Foundation Everett WA
Exceptional Equestrians Unlimited, Inc Hobart IN
Exodus To Excellence, Inc Philadelphia PA
Family & Community Services, Inc Ravenna OH
Family Christian School Winter Garden FL2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 96
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Family Focus, Inc Chicago IL
Family Service Agency of DeKalb County, Inc DeKalb IL
Family Service Association of Bucks County Langhorne PA
Family Service Society, Inc Paducah KY
Family Shelter Service, Inc Wheaton IL
Farmington City Farmington UT
Feed More, Inc Richmond VA
Feeding America Kentucky’s Heartland, Inc Elizabethtown KY
Financial Executives Research Foundation, Inc Morristown NJ
First Nations Development Institute Longmont CO
Fisher House Foundation, Inc Rockville MD
Flight400 Track Club Ellenwood GA
Florida Blood Services, Inc St  Petersburg FL
Florida District 14 Little League Orlando FL
Florida Force Basketball Inc Winter Garden FL
Florida Future Problem Solving Program Cocoa Beach FL
Florida Hospital Foundation Orlando FL
Florida Keys Children’s Shelter, Inc Tavernier FL
Focus Hope Detroit MI
Food Bank of The Rockies Denver CO
Food Finders Food Bank, Inc Lafayette IN
Foodbank of South Central Michigan Battle Creek MI
Foothill-De Anza Community Colleges Foundation Los Altos Hills CA
Foothills United Way, Inc Lafayette CO
Ford’s Theatre Society Washington DC
Fort Lupton High School Fort Lupton CO
Fort Pierce Westwood High School Fort Pierce FL
Fort Wayne Urban League, Inc Fort Wayne IN
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Inc Libertyville IL
Foundation for Foster Children Winter Park FL
Foundation for Orange County Public Schools Orlando FL
Foundation of The Chester County Chamber Malvern PA
Foundation of The Delaware County Chamber, Inc Media PA
Four Mile United Presbyterian Church Beaver PA2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 97
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Fourth Judicial District CASA Las Vegas NM
Frankford Student Activity Fund Philadelphia PA
Franklin-Grand Isle United Way, Inc Saint Albans VT
Freedom High School Orlando FL
Freedom Ride Orlando FL
Fresno Unified School District Fresno CA
Friends of Churchville Nature Center Churchville PA
Friends of Disabled Adults & Children Too, Inc Stone Mountain GA
Friends of Hunting Island State Park Hunting Island SC
Friends of Salem NH Recreation Salem NH
Friends of The Capitol Theater Inc Dover DE
Friends of The Forest Preserve District of Will County Joliet IL
Friends of The Forest Preserves Chicago IL
Friends of The Free Library of Philadelphia, Inc Philadelphia PA
Friends of The Manchester Animal Shelter Manchester NH
Friends of The Rappahannock, Inc Fredericksburg VA
Friends of Utah State Parks Salt Lake City UT
Fuller Park Community Development Corporation Chicago IL
Fund For Boston Neighborhoods, Inc Boston MA
Gads Hill Center Chicago IL
Gadsden Cultural Arts Foundation, Inc Gadsden AL
Galesburg Rescue Mission & Women’s Shelter Galesburg IL
Garden Theatre Winter Garden FL
Garrett County Maryland Community Action Committee, Inc Oakland MD
Gateway Community Charters McClellan CA
Gay & Lesbian Leadership Institute, Inc Washington DC
George W   Clayton College Trust Denver CO
Georgia State Omega Psi Phi Foundation, Inc Marietta GA
GiGi’s Playhouse, Inc Hoffman Estates IL
Girl Scout Council of The Florida Panhandle, Inc Tallahassee FL
Girl Scout Council of The Nations Capital Washington DC
Girl Scouts of Central Illinois, Inc Springfield IL
Girl Scouts of Citrus Council Orlando FL
Girl Scouts of Eastern Massachusetts, Inc Boston MA2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 98
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Girl Scouts of Eastern Pennsylvania, Inc Miquon PA
Girl Scouts of Historic Georgia, Inc Lizella GA
Girl Scouts of Southern Arizona Tucson AZ
Girl Scouts of The Green & White Mountains Bedford NH
Girl Scouts of The United States of America Fort Myers FL
Girl Scouts of Utah Salt Lake City UT
Girl Scouts of Western Washington Seattle WA
Girl Scouts Western Pennsylvania, Inc Pittsburgh PA
Girls Inc  of Greater Philadelphia & Southern New Jersey Philadelphia PA
Girls Incorporated of Alameda County San Leandro CA
Girls Incorporated of Greater Indianapolis Indianapolis IN
Girls Incorporated of Lynn Lynn MA
Girls Incorporated of Metro Denver Denver CO
Girls Incorporated of New Hampshire Manchester NH
Give Kids the World Kissimmee FL
Givingpoint, Inc Roswell GA
Glynn County School System Brunswick GA
Golden Hours Center Foundation, Inc Ogden UT
Good Shepherd School Foundation Orlando FL
Goodwill Industries of Denver Denver CO
Goodwill Industries of New Mexico Albuquerque NM
Grambling University National Alumni Association Alpharetta GA
Grand Rapids Urban League, Inc Grand Rapids MI
Granite Education Foundation, Inc Salt Lake City UT
Granite United Way Manchester NH
Grassy Lake Elementary School Minneola FL
Greater Chicago Food Depository Chicago IL
Greater Huron County United Way Bad Axe MI
Greater Metro Parks Foundation Tacoma WA
Greater Orlando USBC Youth Inc Apopka FL
Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce Regional Foundation Philadelphia PA
Greater Philadelphia Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Philadelphia PA
Greater Sacramento Urban League Sacramento CA
Greater Twin Cities United Way Minneapolis MN2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 99
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Greyhound Pets of America - Greater Orlando Orlando FL
Groundwork Lawrence, Inc Lawrence MA
Guiding Light Ministries International Brunswick GA
Gulf Coast Regional Blood Center Houston TX
Habitat for Humanity Orlando FL
Habitat For Humanity International, Inc Wilmington DE
Bellaire OH
Chalfont PA
Aberdeen WA
Hacienda Community Development Corporation Portland OR
Hands On Portland Portland OR
Harbor House of Central Florida Orlando FL
Harold Colbert Jones Memorial Community Center of Chicago Chicago Heights IL
Harvard Business School Club of Philadelphia Fort Washington PA
Health Care Center for the Homeless Orlando FL
Heart of Arkansas United Way North Little Rock AR
Heart of Illinois United Way, Inc Peoria IL
Here’s Help, Inc Opa Locka FL
Hillside Society For The Prevention of Cruelty To Animals Pottsville PA
Hispanas Organized For Political Equality - California Los Angeles CA
Hispanic Federation, Inc New York NY
Hispanic Human Resources Council, Inc West Palm Beach FL
Hispanic Unity of Florida, Inc Hollywood FL
Hmong American Partnership Saint Paul MN
Holy Family Catholic School Orlando FL
Homeless Shelter Action Committee, Inc Cartersville GA
Hoosier Hills Food Bank, Inc Bloomington IN
HOPE Helps Oviedo FL
Hope Station Opportunity Area Neighborhood Council Carlisle PA
Hopeville Boys Center, Inc Griffin GA
Houndhaven, Inc Minneola FL
Houston Area Urban League, Inc Houston TX
Houston Clean City Commission, Inc Houston TX
Howard Center, Inc Burlington VT
Humane Society For Greater Nashua Corporation Nashua NH2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 100
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Humane Society of Lebanon County Myerstown PA
Huntingdon Community Center Huntingdon PA
IDignity Orlando FL
Illinois Education Foundation Chicago IL
Immanuel Baptist Church Grants NM
In His Hands Christian Daycare Lovington NM
Inclusion Center For Community and Justice Salt Lake City UT
Indiana Black Expo, Inc Indianapolis IN
Indianapolis Urban League, Inc Indianapolis IN
Inquilinos Boricuas En Accion Boston MA
Institute For Latino Progress Chicago IL
Institute For Leadership Education Advancement & Development, Inc Rosemont PA
Institute For Transfusion Medicine Rosemont IL
Pittsburgh PA
Interfaith Homeless Network Chattanooga TN
Interfaith Works, Inc Rockville MD
International Leadership Foundation Washington DC
International Scholarship and Tuition Services Nashville TN
Jack & Jill of America Foundation, Inc Washington DC
Jackson Leadership Institute Chicago IL
Jackson State University Jackson MS
Jacksonville Urban League, Inc Jacksonville FL
James 5:16 Center Tarentum PA
Jane Addams Community Mental Health Center Freeport IL
Jeremiah Program Minneapolis MN
Johnson City Boys Club Inc Johnson City TN
Jordan Education Foundation West Jordan UT
Journey’s End Animal Sanctuary De Land FL
Junior Achievement of Central Florida Orlando FL
Junior Auxiliary of Clinton, Inc Clinton MS
Kankakee County Community Services, Inc Kankakee IL
Keep Indianapolis Beautiful, Inc Indianapolis IN
Kids Advancing Hope Coalition Oak Park MI
Kids Against Hunger of Central Indiana, Inc Indianapolis IN2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 101
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Kids Beating Cancer Orlando FL
King’s Highway Elementary School Coatesville PA
KIPP Minnesota Minneapolis MN
KIPP , Inc Galveston TX
Kishwaukee United Way Dekalb IL
Kiwanis Club of Mill Hall Pennsylvania Foundation Mill Hall PA
Kiwanis Day Nursery Huntington WV
Knox Parks Foundation, Inc Hartford CT
Knoxville Area Urban League Knoxville TN
Korean American Community Services Chicago IL
L A  Family Housing Los Angeles CA
Lake Area United Way, Inc Griffith IN
Lake George Elementary School Orlando FL
Lake Lacrosse, Inc Clermont FL
Lancaster Elementary School Orlando FL
Las Cruces Public Schools Foundation Las Cruces NM
Latin American Association, Inc Atlanta GA
Latin American Community Center, Inc Wilmington DE
Latin American Economic Development Association, Inc Camden NJ
Latin American Youth Center, Inc Washington DC
Latin Americans United For Progress, Inc Holland MI
Latino Leadership Alliance of Bucks County, Inc Bristol PA
Latino Memphis, Inc Memphis TN
Lawrence Community Works, Inc Lawrence MA
Lawrence Hall Youth Services Chicago IL
Lawrenceville-Duluth Alumni Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi Foundation, Inc Suwanee GA
Lazarus House St  Charles IL
Leg Up Farm Mount Wolf PA
Legacy Community Health Services, Inc Houston TX
Lehigh University Bethlehem PA
Lemoyne Owen College Memphis TN
Lenawee United Way Adrian MI
Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Orlando FL
Lifesouth Community Blood Centers, Inc Huntsville AL2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 102
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Little Earth Residents Association, Inc Minneapolis MN
Liverpool Township Patrolman’s Association East Liverpool OH
Los Banos Unified School District Los Banos CA
Love, Inc Meridian MS
Lower Columbia Cap Foundation Longview WA
Loyalhanna Watershed Association, Inc Ligonier PA
Loyola University Medical Center Maywood IL
LULAC Institute, Inc Washington DC
LULAC National Educational Service Centers, Inc Albuquerque NM
Lycoming County United Way, Inc Williamsport PA
Lykens Community Development Corporation, Inc Lykens PA
MEND Pacoima CA
Make-A-Wish Foundation Orlando FL
Manitowoc-Two Rivers YMCA, Inc Manitowoc WI
Martha’s Vineyard Boys & Girls Club, Inc Edgartown MA
Martin House, Inc Norwich CT
Maryland Coastal Bays Foundation, Inc Ocean City MD
Mazzoni Center Philadelphia PA
Medic, Inc Knoxville TN
Memorial Middle School Orlando FL
Memphis Urban League, Inc Memphis TN
Mercy Ministries, Inc Augusta GA
Merrimack Valley YMCA, Inc Lawrence MA
Metropolitan Inter-Faith Association Memphis TN
Metropolitan State College of Denver Foundation, Inc Denver CO
Mexican Institute of Greater Houston, Inc Houston TX
Mi Casa Resource Center Denver CO
Miami-Dade Public School District Miami FL
Michigan State University East Lansing MI
Mid-South Regional Blood Center, Inc Memphis TN
Mile High United Way, Inc Denver CO
Mill River Union High School North Clarendon VT
Mimbres Region Arts Council, Inc Silver City NM
Minneapolis Urban League Minneapolis MN2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 103
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Minneola Elementary Minneola FL
Mississippi Blood Services, Inc Flowood MS
Motion Picture & Television Fund Woodland Hills CA
Motor City Blight Busters, Inc Detroit MI
Mount Dora Middle School Mount Dora FL
Mount Hermon Educational Corporation of South Florida West Park FL
Mount St  Vincent Home, Inc Denver CO
Mountaineer Boys & Girls Club, Inc Morgantown WV
Multiple Sclerosis Society-Mid Florida Maitland FL
Mundy’s Mill High School Jonesboro GA
My Stuff Bags Foundation Westlake Village CA
Naples Botanical Garden, Inc Naples FL
Nashua Police Athletic League Nashua NH
Nathaniel’s Hope Orlando FL
Natick Service Council, Inc Natick MA
National Alliance on Mentally Ill of Greater Orlando Orlando FL
National Coalition of 100 Black Women Mecca Chapter, Inc Atlanta GA
National Congress of Black Women, Inc Washington DC
National Council of La Raza Washington DC
National Foundation For Credit Counseling, Inc Chattanooga TN
National Gay and Lesbian Task Force Foundation New York NY
National Hispana Leadership Institute Arlington VA
National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators Washington DC
National Puerto Rican Coalition, Inc Washington DC
National Urban League, Inc New York NY
Native American Youth and Family Center Portland OR
Need In Deed Philadelphia PA
Neighborhood Centers, Inc Bellaire TX
Neighborhood Educational Enhancement & Development Services, Inc Hattiesburg MS
Neighborhood House St  Paul MN
Neighborhood House Inc Seattle WA
New Birth Church of Christ New Haven CT
New Covenant Missionary Baptist Church Chicago IL
New Dimensions Orlando FL2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 104
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  New Hampshire Catholic Charities, Inc Manchester NH
New Hope for Kids Maitland NC
New Jersey Hall of Fame Newark NJ
New Ulm Turnverein New Ulm MN
Newseum, Inc Washington DC
Niles Schools Education Foundation Niles MI
NonProfit Vote Boston MA
Norris Square Civic Association Philadelphia PA
North Cobb High School Academic Booster Club Kennesaw GA
North East Community Center Association Spokane WA
North End Action Team, Inc Middletown CT
Northern Illinois Blood Bank, Inc Rockford IL
Northern Illinois Center For Autism Lake in the Hills IL
Northern Illinois Food Bank Geneva IL
Northern Virginia Urban League, Inc Alexandria VA
Northwest Assistance Ministries Houston TX
Northwest Harvest/EMM Seattle WA
Northwest Youth and Family Services Shoreview MN
Nueva Esperanza Philadelphia PA
Nutmeg Big Brothers Big Sisters, Inc Hartford CT
Oak Ridge High School Orlando FL
Oakland County Pioneer & Historical Society Pontiac MI
Oakland Unified School District Oakland CA
Old Colony YMCA Brockton MA
Olympia High School Orlando FL
On Point Hixson TN
One Body World Ministries Clinton TN
One Heart Ministries, Inc Conyers GA
Open Meadow Alternative Schools, Inc Portland OR
Operation Hope, Inc Los Angeles CA
Operation School Bell Los Angeles CA
Opportunities Industrialization Center, Inc Philadelphia PA
Orange County Public Schools Orlando FL
Orchard Village Skokie IL2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 105
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Oregon Human Development Corporation Tigard OR
Organization of Chinese Americans, Inc Sacramento CA
Washington DC
Madison Heights MI
Orion House, Inc Newport NH
Orlando After-School All-Stars Orlando FL
Orlando Area Rowing Society Orlando FL
Orlando Science Center Orlando FL
Orlando Union Rescue Mission Orlando FL
Orlando Youth Alliance Orlando FL
Oscar Cross Boys & Girls Club of Paducah Paducah KY
Oviedo High School Oviedo FL
PA Cleanways of Allegheny County, Inc Pittsburgh PA
Pacific Lodge Youth Services Woodland Hills CA
Pancreatic Cancer Action Network Manhattan Beach CA
Paradise Unified School District Paradise CA
Parent Institute For Quality Education, Inc National City CA
Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays, Inc Washington DC
Parks & People Foundation, Inc Baltimore MD
Parkside Business & Community In Partnership, Inc Camden NJ
Passion For Learning, Inc Silver Spring MD
Pathways PA, Inc Holmes PA
Pencil Foundation Nashville TN
People For People, Inc Philadelphia PA
People For The American Way Foundation Washington DC
Peoples Emergency Center Philadelphia PA
Perspectives, Inc Saint Louis Park MN
Pet Rescue by Judy Sanford FL
Philabundance Philadelphia PA
Philadelphia Foundation Philadelphia PA
Philadelphia Outward Bound Center Philadelphia PA
Philadelphia Reads, Inc Philadelphia PA
Philadelphia University Philadelphia PA
Philadelphia Young Playwrights Philadelphia PA2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 106
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Philadelphia’s Children First Fund Philadelphia PA
Pikes Peak United Way Colorado Springs CO
Pillsbury United Communities Minneapolis MN
Plainfield Board of Education Plainfield NJ
Plymouth Community United Way Plymouth MI
Police Athletic League of Norristown Norristown PA
Power of God Fellowship, Inc Cartersville GA
Preservation Foundation of The Lakecounty Forest Preserves Libertyville IL
Prevent Child Abuse - Vermont Montpelier VT
Prince of Peace Lutheran Church PrInceton Junction NJ
Project For Pride In Living, Inc Minneapolis MN
Project Home Philadelphia PA
Project SYNCERE Chicago IL
Project Vote Smart Philipsburg MT
Providence Health & Services Foundation Burbank CA
Providence St  Joseph Foundation Burbank CA
PTA California Congress of Parents, Teachers & Students, Inc Lompoc CA
Milpitas CA
Modesto CA
Pittsburg CA
San Francisco CA
Santa Cruz CA
Stockton CA
PTA Georgia Congress Jonesboro GA
Savannah GA
Push For Excellence, Inc Chicago IL
Quest, Inc Orlando FL
Quincy Asian Resources, Inc Quincy MA
Rainbow Kitchen Community Services Homestead PA
Rappahannock Big Brothers & Big Sisters Fredericksburg VA
Reach Education, Inc Washington DC
Rebuilding Together Alexandria Alexandria VA
Rebuilding Together Aurora, Inc Aurora IL
Rebuilding Together Thurston County Olympia WA2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 107
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Remember Me Rose Garden Portland OR
Rescuing Animals In Need Orlando FL
Reston Interfaith, Inc Reston VA
Resurrection Project Chicago IL
Ribbon Riders, Inc Lake Mary FL
Roadrunner Food Bank, Inc Albuquerque NM
Rockford Park District Foundation Rockford IL
Rodney Street Tennis Association Wilmington DE
Roselle Board of Education Roselle NJ
Routt County United Way Steamboat Springs CO
Rumbarger Cemetery Preservation Society Dubois PA
Sacramento Metro Church of Christ Carmichael CA
Saddlers Woods Conservation Association Haddon Township NJ
Saint Cyril Roman Catholic Church East Lansdowne PA
Saint John Church Old Saybrook CT
Saint John Vianney Catholic School Orlando FL
Saint Paul Public Schools Foundation, Inc Saint Paul MN
Salinas City Elementary Education Foundation Salinas CA
Salt Lake City Corporation Salt Lake City UT
Salt Lake Education Foundation Salt Lake City UT
Salvation Army Roseville MN
Salvation Army of Central Florida Orlando FL
Salvation Army World Service Office Ft  Myers FL
San Diego River Park Foundation San Diego CA
San Juan United Way Farmington NM
San Rafael City School District San Rafael CA
Sarah Heinz House Association Pittsburgh PA
Savannah State College Foundation, Inc Savannah GA
Savannah-Chatham County Public Schools Education For All Foundation Savannah GA
Schaefer L I F E Santa Rosa CA
School District of the City of Flint Flint MI
School on Wheels Los Angeles CA
Science Club For Girls, Inc Cambridge MA
SCTE Foundation, Inc Exton PA2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 108
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Sea Turtle Preservation Society Indialantic FL
Second Harvest Food Bank Orlando FL
Second Harvest Gleaners Food Bank of West Michigan, Inc Comstock Park MI
Second Harvest Heartland St  Paul MN
Securities & Exchange Commission Historical Society Washington DC
Self-Help For The Elderly San Francisco CA
Settlement Music School of Philadelphia Philadelphia PA
Shane’s Inspiration Van Nuys CA
Shepherd’s Hope Orlando FL
Sociedad Latina, Inc Roxbury MA
South Burlington School District South Burlington VT
South Jersey Field of Dreams West Atlantic City NJ
South Lake Animal League, Inc Groveland FL
South Mountain YMCA Maplewood NJ
South Platte Valley Historical Society, Inc Ft  Lupton CO
South Union Community Development, Inc Houston TX
Southern Connecticut State University Foundation, Inc New Haven CT
Southern Pride 4H Orlando FL
Southwestern Michigan Urban League, Inc Battle Creek MI
Southwood Elementary School Orlando FL
Spanish American Civic Association For Equity, Inc Lancaster PA
SPCA of Central Florida Orlando FL
Special Olympics Connecticut, Inc Hamden CT
Special Olympics Florida Clermont FL
Special Olympics Georgia, Inc Atlanta GA
Special Olympics Massachusetts, Inc Taunton MA
Special Olympics Michigan, Inc Bad Axe MI
Springfield Day Nursery Corporation Springfield MA
Springfield Urban League, Inc Springfield IL
SquashSmarts Philadelphia PA
St  John United Way LaPlace LA
St  Jude Children’s Research Hospital, Inc Cordova TN
St  Mary’s Home Mobile AL
St  Charles Borromeo Catholic School Orlando FL2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 109
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  St  Cloud Little League St  Cloud FL
STARS of West Orange Ocoee FL
State of Delaware Smyrna DE
Stewpot Community Services, Inc Jackson MS
Storehouse Assistance Center Fern Park FL
Sto-Rox School District McKees Rocks PA
Strong Women Strong Girls, Inc Pittsburgh PA
Submarine Force Library & Museum Association Groton CT
Sultan Jihad Ahmad Community Foundation Philadelphia PA
Summer Search San Francisco CA
Surfrider Foundation San Clemente CA
Susan G  Komen For The Cure Orlando FL
Tacoma Urban League Tacoma WA
Take Stock in Children Miami FL
Tallahassee Sigmas Educational Foundation, Inc Tallahassee FL
Taller Puertorriqueno, Inc Philadelphia PA
Target Hunger Houston TX
Tazewell Animal Protective Society Pekin IL
Teach For America, Inc New York NY
Team Pennsylvania Foundation Harrisburg PA
Tech Corps Houston TX
Techbridge Girls Oakland CA
Tejano Center For Community Concerns, Inc Houston TX
Terrebonne Parish Consolidated Government Houma LA
The Arc of Dauphin County Harrisburg PA
The Boys & Girls Club of Chambersburg & Shippensburg, Inc Chambersburg PA
The Boys & Girls Club of Greater Peoria, Inc Peoria IL
The Caregivers, Inc Bedford NH
The Center For Exceptional Care Elgin IL
The Child Advocacy Center of Hillsborough County Nashua NH
The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia Foundation Philadelphia PA
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints San Bruno CA
The Committee of Seventy Philadelphia PA
The Denver Health & Hospitals Foundation Denver CO2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 110
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  The Education Partnership Pittsburgh PA
The Foundation For Enhancing Communities Harrisburg PA
The Fuller Center For Housing, Inc Shreveport LA
The Greenway Foundation, Inc Greenwood Village CO
The Guidance Center Southgate MI
The Heart Gallery of New Mexico Foundation Albuquerque NM
The John M  Barry Boys & Girls Club of Newton, Inc Newton MA
The Open Door Cape Ann Food Pantry, Inc Gloucester MA
The Salvation Army Shreveport LA
Jackson MS
Philadelphia PA
Everett WA
The School Board of Orange County Florida Orlando FL
The United Way of Calvert, Inc Prince Frederick MD
The United Way of Central Maryland, Inc Baltimore MD
The United Way of Charles County, Inc La Plata MD
The United Way of Greater Waterbury, Inc Waterbury CT
The United Way of Northeast Louisiana, Inc Monroe LA
The Urban League of Greater Atlanta, Inc Atlanta GA
The Urban League of Greater Chattanooga, Inc Chattanooga TN
The Young Men’s Christian Association of Greater Miami, Inc Miami FL
Theatre Downtown Orlando FL
Thornebrooke Elementary School Ocoee FL
Thornton Township Youth Committee Program, Inc South Holland IL
Thumb Industries Bad Axe MI
Town of Hudson Hudson MA
Town of Loudon New Hampshire Loudon NH
Town of Springfield Springfield VT
Trees Atlanta, Inc Atlanta GA
Trees Indiana, Inc Fort Wayne IN
Trenton Board of Education Trenton NJ
Tri-City Community Action Program, Inc Malden MA
Trident United Way, Inc North Charleston SC
Trident Urban League, Inc Charleston SC2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 111
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Trinidad Community Foundation Trinidad CO
Trinity Pentecostal Holiness Church Tallahassee FL
Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia PA
Unbridled Spirit Saint Cloud FL
Union League Boys & Girls Club Chicago IL
Union Park Little League Orlando FL
Union Station Homeless Services Pasadena CA
United Cerebral Palsy of Central Florida Orlando FL
United Communities Against Poverty, Inc Capitol Heights MD
United Neighborhood Organization Chicago IL
United Teen Equality Center Lowell MA
United Way California Capital Region Sacramento CA
United Way Capital Area Austin TX
United Way Chattanooga Chattanooga TN
United Way For Southeastern Michigan Detroit MI
United Way Manitowoc County, Inc Manitowoc WI
United Way of Adams County Gettysburg PA
United Way of Adams County, Inc Quincy IL
United Way of Allegheny County Pittsburgh PA
United Way of Allen County, Inc Fort Wayne IN
United Way of Atlantic County Galloway NJ
United Way of Bartholomew County, Inc Columbus IN
United Way of Beaver County, Inc Monaca PA
United Way of Bennington County Manchester Center VT
United Way of Benton County Corvallis OR
United Way of Berks County Reading PA
United Way of Blair County, Inc Altoona PA
United Way of Broward County Fort Lauderdale FL
United Way of Bucks County Fairless Hills PA
United Way of Burlington County, Inc Rancocas NJ
United Way of Cache Valley Logan UT
United Way of Camden County Camden NJ
United Way of Central and Southern Utah Provo UT
United Way of Central Illinois, Inc Springfield IL2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 112
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  United Way of Central Jersey, Inc Milltown NJ
United Way of Central New Mexico Albuquerque NM
United Way of Central Virginia, Inc Lynchburg VA
United Way of Central Washington County Washington PA
United Way of Champaign County Illinois, Inc Champaign IL
United Way of Chester County West Chester PA
United Way of Chittenden County, Inc South Burlington VT
United Way of Clarion County Clarion PA
United Way of Coastal Georgia, Inc Brunswick GA
United Way of Danville Area, Inc Danville IL
United Way of Decatur & Mid-Illinois Decatur IL
United Way of Delaware County Indiana, Inc Muncie IN
United Way of Delaware, Inc Wilmington DE
United Way of Eagle River Valley, Inc Edwards CO
United Way of East Mississippi, Inc Meridian MS
United Way of Eastern New Mexico, Inc Clovis NM
United Way of Elkhart County, Inc Elkhart IN
United Way of Etowah County Alabama, Inc Gadsden AL
United Way of Forsyth County, Inc Cumming GA
United Way of Frederick County, Inc Frederick MD
United Way of Garfield County, Inc Glenwood Springs CO
United Way of Genesee County Flint MI
United Way of Gloucester County Thorofare NJ
United Way of Grays Harbor Aberdeen WA
United Way of Greater Clarksville Region, Inc Clarksville TN
United Way of Greater Houston Houston TX
United Way of Greater Kansas City, Inc Kansas City MO
United Way of Greater Knoxville, Inc Knoxville TN
United Way of Greater Mercer County, Inc Lawrenceville NJ
United Way of Greater Nashua, Inc Nashua NH
United Way of Greater New Bedford, Inc New Bedford MA
United Way of Greater New Haven, Inc New Haven CT
United Way of Greater Philadelphia and Southern New Jersey Philadelphia PA
United Way of Greater Plymouth County, Inc Brockton MA2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 113
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  United Way of Greater Union County, Inc Elizabeth NJ
United Way of Grundy County Morris IL
United Way of Henry County & Martinsville, Inc Martinsville VA
United Way of Huntingdon County Fund Huntingdon PA
United Way of Indiana County Indiana PA
United Way of Island County Oak Harbor WA
United Way of Jefferson County Steubenville OH
United Way of Kankakee County, Inc Kankakee IL
United Way of King County Seattle WA
United Way of Knox County, Inc Galesburg IL
United Way of Lake County, Inc Gurnee IL
United Way of Lancaster County Lancaster PA
United Way of Lane County Springfield OR
United Way of Larimer County, Inc Fort Collins CO
United Way of Lawrence County New Castle PA
United Way of Lebanon County, Inc Lebanon PA
United Way of Madison County, Inc Huntsville AL
United Way of Massachusetts Bay, Inc Boston MA
United Way of McLean County Bloomington IL
United Way of Merced County, Inc Merced CA
United Way of Metropolitan Atlanta, Inc Atlanta GA
United Way of Metropolitan Chicago Chicago IL
Matteson IL
Mount Prospect IL
Oak Brook IL
United Way of Miami-Dade, Inc Miami FL
United Way of Mid Coast Maine, Inc Bath ME
United Way of Middle Tennessee, Inc Nashville TN
United Way of Mifflin Juniata Lewistown PA
United Way of Monmouth County, Inc Farmingdale NJ
United Way of Monterey County Monterey CA
United Way of New York City New York NY
United Way of Northeast Florida, Inc Jacksonville FL
United Way of Northeast Mississippi, Inc Tupelo MS2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 114
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  United Way of Northwest Florida Panama City FL
United Way of Palm Beach County, Inc Boynton Beach FL
United Way of Pekin Pekin IL
United Way of Pierce County Tacoma WA
United Way of Pueblo County Colorado, Inc Pueblo CO
United Way of Quay County Tucumcari NM
United Way of Rock River Valley Rockford IL
United Way of Rome & Floyd County, Inc Rome GA
United Way of Rutland County Vermont, Inc Rutland VT
United Way of Salt Lake Salt Lake City UT
United Way of Santa Fe County, Inc Santa Fe NM
United Way of Sarasota County, Inc Sarasota FL
United Way of Silicon Valley San Jose CA
United Way of Snohomish County Everett WA
United Way of Southeast Mississippi Hattiesburg MS
United Way of Southeastern Connecticut, Inc Gales Ferry CT
United Way of Southwest Alabama, Inc Mobile AL
United Way of Southwest Michigan St  Joseph MI
United Way of Southwest New Mexico Las Cruces NM
United Way of Spokane County Spokane WA
United Way of Sterling Rock Falls Sterling IL
United Way of The Bay Area San Francisco CA
United Way of The Big Bend, Inc Tallahassee FL
United Way of The Brown County Area, Inc New Ulm MN
United Way of The Capital Area, Inc Jackson MS
United Way of The Capital Region Enola PA
United Way of The Central Savannah River Area, Inc Augusta GA
United Way of The Coastal Empire, Inc Savannah GA
United Way of The Columbia-Willamette Portland OR
United Way of The Florida Keys, Inc Tavernier FL
United Way of The Laurel Highlands, Inc Johnstown PA
United Way of The Lower Eastern Shore, Inc Salisbury MD
United Way of The Mid-South Memphis TN
United Way of The Mid-Willamette Valley Salem OR2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 115
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  United Way of The National Capital Area Vienna VA
United Way of The Northwest Alabama, Inc Florence AL
United Way of The Upper Ohio Valley, Inc Wheeling WV
United Way of The Wine Country Santa Rosa CA
United Way of Tri County, Inc Framingham MA
United Way of Tucson & Southern Arizona, Inc Tucson AZ
United Way of Washtenaw County Ann Arbor MI
United Way of Weld County, Inc Greeley CO
United Way of West Alabama, Inc Tuscaloosa AL
United Way of Westchester & Putnam, Inc White Plains NY
United Way of Western Connecticut, Inc Stamford CT
United Way of Westmoreland County Greensburg PA
United Way of Whatcom County Bellingham WA
United Way of Whitewater Valley Richmond IN
United Way of Will County Joliet IL
United Way of Williamson County Franklin TN
United Way of York County York PA
United Way Thomas Jefferson Area Charlottesville VA
United Way, Inc Los Angeles CA
Hartford CT
United Workers, Inc New Haven CT
University of Central Florida Foundation Orlando FL
Urban League of Broward County, Inc Fort Lauderdale FL
Urban League of Eastern Massachusetts, Inc Roxbury MA
Urban League of Greater Hartford, Inc Hartford CT
Urban League of Greater Pittsburgh Pittsburgh PA
Urban League of Greater Richmond Richmond VA
Urban League of Hudson County, Inc Jersey City NJ
Urban League of Madison County, Inc Anderson IN
Urban League of Metropolitan Denver Denver CO
Urban League of Middle Tennessee Nashville TN
Urban League of Palm Beach County, Inc West Palm Beach FL
Urban League of Philadelphia Philadelphia PA
Urban League of Portland Portland OR2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 116
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  Urban League of Southwestern Fairfield County, Inc Stamford CT
Urban League of Springfield, Inc Springfield MA
Urban League of The Pikes Peak Region, Inc Elbert CO
US Foundation For The Inspiration & Recognition Science & Technology Manchester NH
Utah Coalition of La Raza Salt Lake City UT
Utah Food Bank Salt Lake City UT
Vail Valley Foundation, Inc Avon CO
Vallejo City School District Vallejo CA
Valley Family Center San Fernando CA
Valley United Way, Incorporated Shelton CT
Variety Club Camp & Development Center For Handicapped Children Worcester PA
Vermont Center For The Deaf & Hard of Hearing, Inc Brattleboro VT
Veterans Group Philadelphia PA
Vineyard Conservation Society, Inc Vineyard Haven MA
Virginia Baptist Children’s Home and Family Services Salem VA
Virginia Blood Services Richmond VA
Vision New America, Inc San Jose CA
Vitas Hospice Charitable Connection Hollywood FL
Voices for Osceola Children, Inc Kissimmee FL
Volunteer Action Center of Broward County, Inc Lauderhill FL
Volunteer Center For Anne Arundel County Annapolis MD
Volunteers of America, Inc Lanham MD
W C Two Knoxville TN
Washington City Mission, Inc Washington PA
Washington Tennis & Education Washington DC
Washington Urban League, Inc Washington DC
Wayside House, Inc St  Louis Park MN
West Broad Street YMCA Savannah GA
West End Renaissance Committee Midland PA
Westbrook Elementary Ocoee FL
Westlake Charter School Sacramento CA
Westside Middle School Winder GA
Whatcom Parks & Recreation Foundation Bellingham WA
Whispering Oak Elementary School Winter Garden FL2012 FOUNDATION GIVING 117
ABOUT COMCAST AND THIS REPORT2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT  White County United Way, Inc Monticello IN
Whole Truth Apostolic Faith Assembly Lafayette IN
Wilderness Leadership & Learning, Inc Washington DC
William Byrd Community House Richmond VA
Windermere Little League Windermere FL
Windermere Wildfire Travelling Softball Windermere FL
Wing Luke Memorial Foundation Seattle WA
Winter Garden Heritage Foundation Winter Garden FL
Winter Park Library - New Leaf Bookstore Winter Park FL
Wolves Baseball Organization Orlando FL
Women Moving On, Inc Decatur GA
Women’s Lunch Place, Inc Boston MA
Women’s Residential & Counseling Center Orlando FL
Women’s Way Philadelphia PA
Woodland Hills School District Foundation Turtle Creek PA
YMCA of Greater Manchester Manchester NH
YMCA of Martha’s Vineyard, Inc Vineyard Haven MA
YMCA of Metropolitan Chicago Chicago IL
Young Men’s Christian Association Atlanta GA
Young Men’s Christian Association of Metropolitan Atlanta, Inc Atlanta GA
Young Men’s Christian Association of Snohomish County Everett WA
Young Women’s Christian Association of Gettysburg PA Gettysburg PA
Young Women’s Christian Association of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh PA
Youngwood Borough Youngwood PA
Youth Conservation Corps Waukegan IL
Youth Crossroads, Inc Berwyn IL
Youth Development, Inc Albuquerque NM
Zeta Sigma Foundation, Inc Baltimore MD2012 FOUNDATION GIVING