Our Values  
in Action
2019 COMCAST NBCUNIVERSAL VALUES REPORT
Data in this report are for calendar year 2018, unless 
otherwise noted and with the exception of data 
regarding Internet Essentials, which are through the 
first half of 2019. Visit comcastcorporation.com/
valuesreport for our full report.
OUR FAMILY OF COMPANIESTABLE OF CONTENTS
02 Living Our Values
Comcast NBCUniversal’s core values are 
rooted in improving the communities where 
our employees, customers, and audiences  
live and work. 
08  Community Impact
We make a difference in our communities 
in a wide variety of ways, including through 
volunteerism, leadership development, by 
investing in education, especially digital 
education, and through our storytelling 
platforms.
14  Diversity & Inclusion
Our values are shaped by working to promote 
diversity, equity, and inclusion among our 
employees, customers, and audiences.
28 Digital Connectivity 
We are focused on closing the digital divide 
by increasing technology access within our 
communities, including investing in digital 
literacy, awareness, and training, which 
together are the No. 1 barrier to broadband 
adoption.
34  Other Key Initiatives
We are making our company, and our world, 
more environmentally sustainable; creating 
opportunities for military families to be 
better integrated into the economy; and 
ensuring that our products, services, and 
experiences are accessible to the widest 
possible audiences.Message from  
Our Leaders 
Our company operates in an industry — and in a world — that is moving 
at lightning speed.  As we have done since our founding more than 
55 years ago, Comcast NBCUniversal is innovating and evolving at an 
equally rapid pace.  This past year, we marked the latest milestone in 
our history with the acquisition of Sky, a leading entertainment and 
communications company in Europe, making us a truly global company 
and a leader in content and distribution in three of the top five countries 
measured by GDP.
Through all of this change, what defines us and binds us together are 
the values and culture first established by our founder, Ralph Roberts.  
Our culture is based on the core tenets of integrity, respect, and an 
unwavering commitment to diversity and inclusion.
One of the ways we demonstrate these values is through our efforts to 
close the digital divide.  The cornerstone of this work is Internet Essentials, 
a program that has connected millions of low-income Americans to 
low-cost internet.  Through this program, we make major investments in 
trainings to expand digital literacy skills — the lack of which is the most 
significant barrier preventing people from connecting to the power of the 
internet at home.  These trainings, which help people understand how to 
use the internet and discover the resources that can directly assist them 
with their day-to-day lives, also help individuals overcome any fears they 
may have about using unfamiliar technologies. 
In addition to helping expand digital skills, we have long recognized that 
one of the most power  ful ways we can make positive change is through 
volunteerism in myriad forms.  Throughout the year, our employees 
share their expertise and time to support important causes in their 
communities.  These efforts culminate in Comcast Cares Day, one of the 
largest days of service in corporate America.  In 2018, we were proud to 
celebrate an historic milestone with our 1 millionth volunteer.
In this report, we invite you to learn more about our commit ment to 
creating a future in which individuals and communities thrive.  We are 
grateful to our passionate employees and their belief in this mission,  
and we look forward to what we will continue to accomplish together.
David L. Cohen 
Senior Executive Vice President  
and Chief Diversity Officer  
Comcast Corporation
Brian L. Roberts 
Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer  
Comcast Corporation
David L. Cohen
Brian L. Roberts
 1 2019 Our Values in ActionLiving Our 
Values
Since the founding of Comcast in 1963, our core values 
have been rooted in improving the communities where our 
employees, customers, and audiences live and work.  As 
we have evolved to become a global media and technology 
company, our values live on through our culture.  We have 
a rich tradition of giving back and ensuring our employees 
have the opportunity to serve their communities.  And 
through our products, technology, and entertainment 
experiences, and especially through our employees, we 
continually seek new and better ways to make a positive 
difference and do what’s right for our customers, our viewers, 
and our world.  This report highlights some of the key 
priorities that reflect our values, as well as the stories that 
help bring those values to life each and every day.The Comcast Technology Center:  
A Testament to Our Values
Rising 60 stories above the 
busy streets of Center City in 
Philadelphia, the new Comcast 
Technology Center is a symbol of 
who Comcast NBCUniversal is 
today — and where we are going  
in the future.
“The Comcast Technology 
Center is truly the embodiment 
of our corporate culture and 
values,” says Karen Dougherty 
Buchholz, Comcast’s Senior Vice 
President of Administration, who 
helped oversee the design and 
construction of the building.  “It’s 
a testament to our unwavering 
commitment to employees, to the 
com munity, and to sustainability.  
It also serves to support the 
innovation and creativity that will 
drive our business forward.”  
Completed in 2019, the 1,121-
foot skyscraper was built as a world-class space for our 
approximately 4,000 Philadelphia-
based technologists; it also houses 
state-of-the-art television studios 
for NBC10 and Telemundo62 and is 
topped by a Four Seasons Hotel on 
the 12 highest stories.  The tower is 
the newest of five buildings that 
comprise the Comcast Center 
Campus, which is one of the only 
technology centers in the heart 
of an urban East Coast city and 
provides a vibrant, stimulating 
destination for employees every day.
With a mix of open spaces and 
quiet work rooms — along with 
all of the hardware and software 
needed for innovation — the 
Comcast Technology Center 
reflects our determination to 
provide what our technologists 
and our news teams need to be 
productive and happy at work. 
The lobby of the new Comcast Technology Center, which was built as a world-class space for our approximately  
4,000 Philadelphia-based technologists.
40 
local artists’ work  
is represented throughout  
the building
Local artist Phillip Adams paints  
a mural featuring Philadelphia’s  
famous LOVE  statue.
 3 2019 Our Values in Action“This building doesn’t just stand 
for innovation in technology — we 
are also innovating in journalism,” 
says Ric Harris, President and 
General Manager of NBC10 and 
Telemundo62.  The two stations 
now operate in parallel world-
class facilities in the Comcast 
Technology Center.  “These 
studios have every technological 
advancement we could ask for, 
which provides the tools our news 
teams need to investigate and 
deliver the news faster.”While many corporate buildings 
are off-limits to the public, the 
Comcast Technology Center has 
a multi-level lobby that is open to 
visitors and filled with captivating 
features.  The Universal Sphere™, 
for example, is an immersive 
experience that is free and open to 
the public.  Guests can also view 
the digital art installation “For 
Philadelphia,” created by world-
renowned artist Jenny Holzer, that 
spans the lobby’s ceiling.  In addition, more than 40 local 
artists’ and makers’ work is 
represented through out the 
building.  Visitors are also welcome 
to visit the coffee bar in the upper 
lobby and the restaurants on the 
ground, 59th, and 60th floors. 
In building the Comcast Technology 
Center, we sought to provide 
opportuni ties to local companies.  
As part of an Economic 
Opportunity Plan, in partner -
ship with the City of Philadelphia, 
60 
stories tall80K 
square foot studios for 
NBC10 and Telemundo62
A view of the Comcast Technology Center, which rises  
60 stories above Center City in Philadelphia.
Comcast NBCUniversal 4$300M 
spent with diverse- 
owned suppliers30% 
of the construction 
workforce were people 
of color or womenwe developed a series of specific 
inclusion goals for suppliers and 
the on-site construction workforce.  
All told, we spent more than 
$300 million with more than 140 
diverse-owned contractors, with 
approximately 30% of the overall 
construction workforce being 
people of color or women.  (For 
comparison, we spent $100 million 
with diverse suppliers when we 
built the neighboring Comcast 
Center a decade ago.)  In 2017 
and 2018, the Comcast Technology Center was ranked No. 1 for 
Economic Opportunity Plans by the 
City of Philadelphia’s Department 
of Commerce. 
The Comcast Technology Center 
is also a manifestation of our 
commitment to sustainability.   
The building is on track to be 
double LEED Platinum certified —  
the highest-level certification 
for an environmentally friendly 
workplace.  A “daylight harvesting” 
system makes the most of natural light, using overhead glare 
detectors to increase or decrease 
interior LED lighting as needed.  
Instead of a standard HVAC 
system, the building is heated and 
cooled with an energy-efficient 
chilled beam system — the largest 
of its kind in North America.  
And in the cafeteria, an anaerobic 
digester breaks down food scraps, 
helping to minimize the amount of 
waste going to landfill.  
 5 2019 Our Values in ActionA Conversation with the National  
Urban League and UnidosUS
Marc Morial, President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Urban League (NUL), and Janet Murguía, President 
and Chief Executive Officer of UnidosUS, have been longtime and valued partners to Comcast NBCUniversal.  Both 
serve on our external Joint Diversity Advisory Council, which advises company leaders on diversity and inclusion strategy 
and initiatives.  Their organizations are also working with us on efforts to expand access to technology and training, 
particularly within communities of color.  Below is an excerpt of a conversation with them.  For more, go to our full 
report at comcastcorporation.com/valuesreport.
Q: Your organizations are 
working to build digital skills in 
communities of color.  Why is that  
a priority? 
Janet Murguía: By training 
and educating people in our 
communities around digital 
literacy, it enhances our ability 
to integrate digital tools into our 
other areas, beyond workforce.  
We’re able to bring that lens into 
civic engagement and immigrant 
integration, and that’s been a 
real benefit.  At UnidosUS, our 
Innovation Peer Exchanges have trained more than 7,000 people in 
workforce and civic engagement 
since 2016.
Marc Morial: We have to look 
at technology capability as an 
essential skill.  We have sought 
to integrate up-skilling around 
technology in as many programs 
as possible.  The NUL has an 
initiative to recruit people of color 
into apprenticeships around tech.  
These enable people to learn on the 
job while earning a paycheck.  All 
of these programs that enhance 
digital literacy and aptitude are about people’s ability to function in 
21st century America.  That’s why 
it’s so important that Comcast is 
continuing to invest in this.  
Janet Murguía: And when a 
company wants to bring tech skills 
to underserved communities, it’s 
important that they do so in ways 
that connect with people who 
speak different languages and 
come from different cultures.  By 
partnering with UnidosUS and the 
NUL, Comcast NBCUniversal is able 
to make sure that the company is 
reaching its target audiences in 
the right ways.  We see Comcast 
NBCUniversal as a critical ally. 
Q: How would you assess our 
company’s progress on diversity 
and inclusion?
Marc Morial: Our relationship 
with Comcast strengthened and 
broadened significantly with the 
purchase of NBCUniversal and 
the resulting voluntary diversity 
commitments that the company 
made in consultation with the 
NUL and other organizations.  
Eight years later, it’s clear that the 
voluntary commitments gave the 
company leverage to achieve some 
important diversity goals regarding 
its board of directors and hiring, 
as well as around philanthropy, 
procurement, and programming.  
 Marc Morial, President and CEO of the National Urban League, and Janet Murguía,  
President and CEO of UnidosUS, advise Comcast NBCUniversal on efforts to expand  
access to technology and training, particularly within communities of color. 
Comcast NBCUniversal 6Our Values  
Ambassadors
For twin sisters and hockey players Jocelyne 
Lamoureux-Davidson and Monique Lamoureux-
Morando, the journey to the 2018 Olympics 
in South Korea included countless hours 
of training — and a crash course in gender 
inequity.  “We were given all the same 
opportunities as our brothers growing up,” says 
Jocelyne.  “But when we got older we started to 
see discrepancies in how girls and women were 
treated.”
In 2014, the twins began to lead the charge for 
fair and equal treatment of women’s hockey 
— putting into action their parents’ belief in 
the importance of making a difference.  They 
pushed for more equitable compensation as 
compared to the men’s team and more funding 
for girls’ youth hockey.  After two-plus years 
with no progress, they decided it was time 
to take a stand.  Along with the rest of the 
U.S. Women’s Hockey Team, they threatened 
to boycott the 2017 International Ice Hockey 
Federation World Championship. 
“Even if we were to give up our Olympic dream 
or spot on the national team,” says Monique, 
“we were trying to change the future for 
generations of female athletes to come.” 
In March 2017, two days before the World 
Championships were to start, the team and 
USA Hockey reached an agreement.  The team 
went on to win the Worlds — and Olympic gold 
the next year.
Because of this fierce advocacy, in 2018, 
Comcast NBCUniversal named Jocelyne and 
Monique as ambassadors for our company’s 
values initiatives, from our commitment to 
diversity and inclusion to our efforts to close 
the digital divide.  These initiatives are driven 
by our fundamental belief — shared by Jocelyne 
and Monique — that it is critical to cheer for 
people who are behind because everyone 
deserves an equal shot at success.  
Olympic gold medalists Jocelyne 
Lamoureux-Davidson and 
Monique Lamoureux-Morando 
visit communities nationwide 
as our company’s values 
ambassadors.
Monique (left) and  
Jocelyne (right)
Monique (center) and Jocelyne (right) 
Monique (left) and  
Jocelyne (right)
 7 2019 Our Values in ActionCommunity 
Impact
As a company uniquely positioned to educate, entertain,  
and empower, we are committed to bringing together diverse 
communities and inspiring our customers, audiences, and 
employees to make a positive impact. We focus our efforts  
in three areas:
·  Making a difference in our communities through 
volunteerism and leadership development
·  Increasing technology access and expanding digital skills 
within our communities
·  Leveraging our far-reaching storytelling platforms to 
educate our audiences and ignite conversations about 
critical issues that shape the worldIn 2018, People  magazine and Great Place to Work ranked us No. 4 in the country  
on their “Companies that Care” list, in part due to our ongoing commitment  
to our communities.Inspiring Volunteerism,  
Service, and Leadership
Comcast Cares Day, our company-
wide celebration of volunteerism, 
originated with 200 employees 
participating in the City of 
Philadelphia’s day of service 
in 1996; it has since expanded 
significantly, attracting more than 
120,000 volunteers in 2019 at 1,450 
project sites in 23 countries.  Today, 
Comcast Cares Day is one of the 
largest corporate commitments 
to volunteerism in America — but 
it also celebrates and exemplifies 
the commitments to service and 
caring that our employees bring 
to life each and every day of the 
year.  Our employees do technology 
assessments for nonprofits, 
mentor young people, host coding 
workshops, clean up parks, and refurbish schools, among many 
other projects.  In 2018, we 
celebrated an historic milestone 
with our 1 millionth Comcast Cares 
Day volunteer. 
Volunteerism is in our DNA, dating 
back to our company founder 
Ralph Roberts, an entrepreneur 
and philanthropist who was deeply 
involved in civic activities.  In 
2018, People  magazine and Great 
Place to Work ranked us No. 4 in 
the country on their “Companies 
that Care” list, in part due to our 
commitment to our communities. 
In early 2019, we reinforced that 
commitment by launching a 
new volunteering and social 
impact program called Comcast NBCUnites.  Through extensive 
employee focus groups and 
research, we heard loud and 
clear that Comcast NBCUniversal 
employees are very passionate 
about working for a company that 
gives back to its communities and 
that they wanted to be involved 
in a broader range of volunteer 
activities throughout the year.  
We forged new partnerships and 
expanded existing relationships 
with 15 nonprofit organizations 
concentrated in six NBCUniversal 
locations.  We also held volunteer 
fairs to introduce our employees 
to an extensive network of local 
organizations and nonprofit 
partners that offered year-round 
volunteer opportunities.
1M+  
volunteers have  
given back through  
Comcast Cares Day
 9 2019 Our Values in Action“We know that our employees are 
passionate about giving back and 
want to be personally involved.  
Our new volunteering and social 
impact program deepens and 
expands the culture of service 
across the company,” says Hilary 
Smith, Executive Vice President of 
Corporate Communications and 
Social Impact for NBCUniversal.
All year round, our company 
and our employees work with a 
variety of organizations to address 
needs within our communities, 
from performing technology 
assessments with the Boys & Girls 
Clubs to mentoring young people 
through Big Brothers Big Sisters to 
serving on the national and local 
boards of City Year, the National 
Urban League, UnidosUS, and 
Easterseals.  Our employees also 
support communities in the wake 
of natural disasters and make meaningful financial contributions 
to United Way and other worthy 
causes.
Our partnership with City Year has 
been a particular highlight for our 
company.  City Year partners with 
high-need schools, providing the 
support of AmeriCorps members 
to help close achievement gaps.  
City Year also builds the next 
generation of leaders though 
its alumni.  Our employees help 
prepare those City Year AmeriCorps 
members for continued growth 
through Career Days, during which 
they offer advice, participate 
in mock interviews, and review 
resumes.  Comcast NBCUniversal 
employees have also served as 
mentors through our new focus 
with City Year to bring more 
computers, computer science, and 
coding experiences to the 200,000+ 
students the organization serves each year.  These digital 
experiences are part of our recently 
expanded partnership with City 
Year that increased our company’s 
overall support to nearly  
$115 million in cash and in-kind 
contributions to date.  
Through our partnership with City 
Year, we are focused on increasing 
digital skills in the classroom. The leaders and 
employees of Comcast 
NBCUniversal are 
passionate advocates 
for the value of national 
service. 
MICHAEL BROWN
Co-Founder  
City Year
Top Chef  competitor Eddie Konrad, Big Brothers Big Sisters Independence  
Region CEO Marcus Allen, and two students during a cupcake baking  
competition at Comcast.
Comcast NBCUniversal 10Making Investments  
to Increase Tech Skills
As a teenager in Camden, N.J. — a 
struggling city that consistently 
ranks among the poorest in the 
nation — Naomi Maldonado could 
see the shimmering lights of the 
Comcast Center across the Delaware 
River in Philadelphia.  Never in her 
wildest dreams did she imagine she 
would one day work there.
“Where I came from, I don’t think 
anybody ever thought about 
working in a corporate office,” 
says Maldonado, now a Business 
Analyst with Comcast Cable’s Sales 
Operations group.  “My friends and 
I thought about getting jobs in fast 
food or in warehouses.”
She credits her success to 
Hopeworks, a nonprofit that 
teaches the technology skills  
that can help break the cycle of 
poverty.  Digital proficiency is a 
must today — not just for tech jobs but for virtually all sectors of 
employment.  That’s why Comcast 
NBCUniversal is investing in 
programs like Hopeworks that 
equip and support young people 
in developing the skills that open 
doors to opportunity.  Since its 
launch in 2000, Hopeworks has 
helped turn around the lives of 
3,000+ young people, with 86% of 
them landing tech-related jobs that 
pay upward of $32,000 a year.
“This is the best job I’ve ever had,” 
says Maldonado, who lives in a 
West Philadelphia apartment 
with her 2-year-old son, Kingston.  
“Hopeworks showed me that with 
hard work, you can get out of a 
difficult situation and you can get 
whatever you want — whether 
it’s your dream job or your dream 
apartment.”  Or in Maldonado’s 
case, both.Dan Rhoton, Hopeworks’ Executive 
Director, says his program benefits 
both the young people he works 
with and the companies that may 
ultimately hire them.  “Large tech 
companies can’t fill all the jobs 
they have,” he says.  “At the same 
time, there are literally thousands 
of young people in Camden 
and Philadelphia who want 
opportunities to grow and work.”
Beyond financial support, we 
frequently invite Hopeworks 
participants to our Comcast Center 
Campus for mock interviews and 
send employees to Camden as part 
of our annual Comcast Cares Day.
Says Rhoton: “When one of the 
largest media companies in the 
world notices young people in 
Camden who are trying to change 
their lives, it makes an impression.  
Above all, it signals to them that 
they are important, valued, and 
welcomed.  That is a very powerful 
message.”  
At Hopeworks, we 
work with young 
people who come from 
deeply challenging 
circumstances.   
We help them discover 
their own resilience, 
nurture their skills, and 
strengthen their will  
to strive for more.
DAN RHOTON
Executive Director  
Hopeworks
 Comcast employee and Hopeworks alum Naomi Maldonado with  
Executive Director Dan Rhoton in the Hopeworks offices in Camden, N.J. 
 11 2019 Our Values in ActionUniversal Pictures’ Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again challenged  
fans to throw on a favorite pair of overalls and post a photo in  
support of Boys & Girls Clubs. 
Andrea Mitchell, Chief Foreign Affairs Correspondent  
for NBC News, was named a 2019 honoree by the  
Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press.
In 2018, we hosted our second annual Meet the Press  Film Festival, in collaboration with the American Film Institute.
Comcast NBCUniversal 12At Comcast NBCUniversal, we 
use our news and entertainment 
platforms every day to educate, spark 
important conversations, celebrate 
inclusiveness, and shine a light on the 
issues that shape our world.
At our core, we believe in the power 
of in-depth news reporting to 
create an informed citizenry, which 
is the foundation of democracy.  
We know millions of people rely 
on our news programming to 
understand what’s going on in the 
world.  NBC Nightly News is the 
most-watched evening newscast 
in America among the key 25- 
to 54-year-old demographic, 
providing the day’s top stories 
and going beyond the headlines 
to add context and analysis to 
the most pressing issues of our 
times.  In 2018, NBC Nightly News 
Anchor Lester Holt was ranked as 
the most trusted news personality 
in America, according to The 
Hollywood Reporter/Morning 
Consult survey.
Holt, who serves on the board 
of directors of the Committee 
to Protect Journalists, recently 
partnered with the Poynter 
Institute to promote a program 
that teaches fact-checking skills 
to students.  As the first official 
ambassador of the MediaWise 
program, Holt is highlighting the 
importance of truth and accuracy 
in the media.  Making a Positive Impact 
Our commitment to using our 
platforms to create positive change 
goes beyond our News division, of 
course.  In 2018, Focus Features 
acquired the worldwide rights to 
Won’t You Be My Neighbor?, a new 
documentary about the life and work 
of Fred Rogers from Academy Award-
winning filmmaker Morgan Neville. 
The unassuming Fred Rogers 
inspired generations of children 
with his compassion and limitless 
imagination as he took them on 
tours of Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood.  
His lessons of kindness, inclusiveness, 
and empathy are as necessary today 
as they were 30 years ago when he 
first zipped up his cardigans on  
TV screens.
Exploring Critical Social Issues 
We are also dedicated to 
addressing important social 
issues.  To commemorate the 50th 
anniversary of the assassination 
of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., 
in 2018, NBC News released a 
documentary film, narrated by 
Holt, that examined how Dr. King 
and other leaders of the civil rights 
movement used the power of print 
and visual media — and especially 
television — to raise consciousness 
to the realities and injustices of 
racial inequality.  Hope & Fury: 
MLK, The Movement and The 
Media offers a gripping account 
of American history as told by civil 
rights leaders, pioneering African 
American reporters who chronicled 
the movement, journalists  
from across generations, and 
present-day activists. 
In 2018, we also hosted our second 
annual Meet the Press  Film Festival, 
in collaboration with the American 
Film Institute.  The event featured 
23 films that highlighted critical issues ahead of the U.S. midterm 
elections, including gun violence, 
immigration, voting rights, the 
changing economy, poverty, and 
post-traumatic stress disorder.  
Lester Holt spoke to high school 
students in Washington, D.C., about 
fact-checking skills.Using Our 
Storytelling 
Platforms for 
Social Good
Fact-checking and 
identifying trustworthy 
sources is something  
I’ve done every day  
for over four decades.  
But in today’s noisy media 
environment, those skills 
are just as important for 
our readers and viewers 
as they are for those of us 
doing the reporting.
LESTER HOLT
Anchor  
NBC Nightly News
 13 2019 Our Values in ActionDiversity  
& Inclusion
At Comcast NBCUniversal, we strive to make every  
employee feel valued and respected for who they are and  
the unique contributions they make.  We believe that a 
diverse and inclusive company is a more innovative and 
successful company, which is why we aim to infuse  
diversity and inclusion (D&I) into all aspects of our culture 
and our business.  For us, D&I is not a program — it is a 
central element of our credo and DNA.  Our approach to D&I 
is focused on five key pillars: Governance, Workforce, Supplier 
Diversity, Programming, and Community Impact.  D&I GOVERNANCE
Our commitment to diversity starts at the top, with our  
Board of Directors.  Our Board diversity has nearly tripled since 
year-end (YE) 2010.  We also have a 24-person, external Joint 
Diversity Advisory Council (JDC), which has driven success in our  
D&I efforts by providing advice to our senior executive team  
on the development and implementation of our D&I initiatives.   
The JDC meets twice a year and includes national business, 
political, and civil rights leaders who represent African 
Americans, Asian Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans, 
women, people with disabilities, and members of the lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer community and the 
military community.  Comcast and NBCUniversal each also  
have Internal Diversity Councils (IDCs), which meet once a year.  
Both IDCs are made up of senior executives who provide insights 
on D&I efforts and share best practices across the business. BOARD DIVERSITY*
+160%**
  * “Diversity” data refer to people of color and women, without double-counting women of color.
**   Throughout this document, changes in percentage representation refer to the growth rate of percentage representation between a starting point and an ending point.   
For example, an increase from 10% to 15% is a growth rate of +50%.YE 2018 YE 201015%40%
DIVERSE WORKFORCE
We are committed to having the best thinkers, dreamers, and doers on our team.  That means 
attracting, developing, and retaining brilliant minds from all backgrounds and giving them 
paths to grow and reinvent their careers.  Our aspirational goal is to have 50% women and 
33% people of color at every level of our workforce.  To meet this goal, we’re investing even 
more into our diverse recruitment initiatives, leadership development programs, and Employee 
Resource Groups, in addition to other efforts at all levels of our workforce.  We believe it’s this 
commitment that makes Comcast NBCUniversal such an incredible place to work, and a place 
where our employees can be who they are.
62%  
of our employees were 
women or people of color  
at YE 2018
71% 
of our new hires in  
2018 were women  
or people of color
32K 200
16K 100
2012 2012 2018 2018GROWTH IN EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUP MEMBERSHIP
181
3031,000
9,000Number of Chapters Number of Unique Members
 15 2019 Our Values in ActionWorkforce diversity
Women
Total People  
of Color
African  
American
HispanicAsian  
American
Two or More  
RacesNative  
American35% 40%
44% 54%
20% 24%
6% 8%
14% 16%
3% 6%<1% <1%Overall Workforce (YE 2018)*2018 New Hires
Executive Leadership Team**ELT ELT
+9%
+41%34%37%
YE 2011 YE 2011 YE 2018 YE 201814%19%
+52% 
increase in number 
of women in ELT 
since YE 2011+97% 
increase in number 
of people of color in 
ELT since YE 2011
WOMEN 1 YEAR 7 YEAR
Change in # -4%†+52%
Change in % +6% +9%LEADERSHIP TRENDS2018 WORKFORCE DATA
PEOPLE OF COLOR 1 YEAR 7 YEAR
Change in # -3%†+97%
Change in % +7% +41%
  *  Workforce metrics are reflective of our U.S. full-time employees. 
**   Our Executive Leadership Team (ELT) includes the CEOs and their first- and second-level direct reports.  ELT data are not available for 2010.  Therefore, multi-year change in the 
ELT is reported since 2011, while the trend data on the next page are reported since 2010.
  †  In 2018, the overall number of ELT members decreased due to a reorganization that moved several leaders to the newly formed Xfinity Consumer Services group.  Despite the 
slight decrease in number, the percent of women and people of color in the ELT increased in 2018.
Comcast NBCUniversal 16WOMEN 1 YEAR 8 YEAR
Change in # +6% +75%
Change in % +1% +3%PEOPLE OF COLOR 1 YEAR 8 YEAR
Change in # +9% +135%
Change in % +4% +39%LEADERSHIP TRENDS (CONT.) 
2018 LEADERSHIP DATAVice Presidents and Above
DirectorsVP+ Directors
DirectorsVP+ Directors
Directors34%
40%+17%
+3%+37%
+39%16%
19%39%
41%21%
27%YE 2010
YE 2010YE 2010
YE 2010YE 2018
YE 2018YE 2018
YE 2018
Executive  
Leadership TeamVice Presidents  
& AboveDirectors
0 15 0 15 0 15African  
American
Asian  
American
Hispanic
Native  
American
Two or More  
Races6%
6%
6%
2%<1%African  
American
Asian  
American
Hispanic
Native  
American
Two or More  
Races
0 15 0 15 0 155%
8%7%
1%<1%African  
American
Asian  
American
Hispanic
Native  
American
Two or More  
Races
0 15 0 15 0 156%
7%11%
2%<1%+70% 
increase in number 
of VP+ women  
since YE 2010
+75% 
increase in number 
of women at the 
Director level since 
YE 2010   +99% 
increase in number 
of VP+ people of 
color since YE 2010
+135% 
increase in number 
of people of color at 
the Director level 
since YE 2010WOMEN 1 YEAR 8 YEAR
Change in # +5% +70%
Change in % +2% +17%PEOPLE OF COLOR 1 YEAR 8 YEAR
Change in # +4% +99%
Change in % +2% +37%
 17 2019 Our Values in ActionAdvancing Women Leaders
Across every business unit at 
Comcast NBCUniversal, we are 
focused on advancing diversity and 
inclusion by hiring the best diverse 
talent and creating a culture 
in which every employee feels 
included, valued, and empowered.  
In 2018, 35% of our workforce was 
composed of women.  In an effort 
to reflect the communities we 
serve, we have set an aspirational 
goal of achieving a workforce that 
is 50% women at every level.
We are particularly focused on 
ensuring strong representation of 
women in leadership.  In 2018, 39% 
of our Vice Presidents and above 
were women, and there was a 70% 
increase in the number of women 
at that level since 2010.  There are 
women in leadership positions in 
every area of our business who are 
enacting powerful and innovative 
change, such as Dana Strong, 
President of Consumer Services 
at Comcast Cable; Noopur Davis, Executive Vice President and 
Chief Product and Information 
Security Officer at Comcast Cable; 
Donna Langley, Chairman of the 
Universal Filmed Entertainment 
Group; and Kim Harris, Executive 
Vice President of Comcast 
Corporation and General Counsel 
at NBCUniversal. 
A Snapshot of Our Inclusion  
Efforts to Support Women
We are investing in a wide array of 
programs and initiatives that ensure 
women at Comcast NBCUniversal 
feel engaged and supported in 
building a successful career.  
In 2018, Comcast’s Northeast 
Division, which encompasses 13 
states in the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, 
and New England, launched a 
Women In Tech campaign to raise 
awareness about Communications 
Technician (CommTech) roles 
among women and grow our 
pipeline of female candidates.  The campaign has a dedicated 
website with information about 
job openings and video profiles 
of women who currently work as 
CommTechs.  
Our TECHWomen platform, a 
network of women technologists 
and their allies, is also gaining 
momentum and strengthening 
the representation and success 
of women in tech.  Created in 
2014 by a small group of female 
technologists from across Comcast 
NBCUniversal, TECHWomen now 
has more than 2,500 members in 
18 local chapters who are making a 
difference in our company and our 
communities. 
Our Atlanta chapter was one of 
six local chapters launched in 
2018 and has already grown to 
more than 230 members under 
the leadership of Janine Johnson, 
Director of Project Management 
for Comcast’s Big South Region. 
“I love working in tech, and 
I’m really passionate about 
encouraging other women in 
Janine Johnson (left), Director of Project Management in Comcast’s Big South Region, leads the Atlanta  
chapter of TECHWomen, a network of women technologists and allies at Comcast NBCUniversal.
Comcast NBCUniversal 18the industry — whether they 
already work in the tech field or 
are considering a career in it.  
TECHWomen is a great forum for 
doing that,” says Johnson, whose 
job requires her to understand, 
work with, and test various 
Comcast tech products. 
Members of TECHWomen 
gather annually for a summit to 
discuss strategic challenges and 
opportunities, while individual 
chapters organize a variety of 
activities throughout the year, 
including panel discussions, 
leadership development sessions, 
and community service activities.  
Johnson’s Atlanta chapter has 
been very active in the community, 
holding STEM workshops at the 
local Boys & Girls Club and an area 
middle school and hosting young 
women from nearby Agnes Scott 
College at Comcast’s offices for 
a hands-on “Programming 101” 
session.  
Our efforts also extend well beyond 
tech.  At NBCUniversal, our Human 
Resources team identified ways to 
improve the experience of every female employee through an in-
depth assessment of the state of 
diversity and inclusion in every 
NBCUniversal business unit.  There 
is also a series of programs making 
a difference in entertainment. 
Our Universal Filmed Entertain-
ment Group committed to the 
#4PercentChallenge, a new 
initiative to increase the ranks 
of female directors in the film 
industry.  The challenge was borne 
out of a study by the Annenberg 
Inclusion Initiative that found that 
only 4% of the directors of the 1,200 top-grossing films from 2007 
to 2018 were women.  Universal 
Pictures, DreamWorks Animation, 
and Focus Features were the first 
studios to join the effort, which 
challenges industry leaders to 
announce at least one project with 
a female director over the ensuing 
18 months.  Female-directed films 
in the 2019–20 slate across the 
Universal Filmed Entertainment 
portfolio include The Mustang, 
Little, A Dog’s Journey, Abominable, 
Queen & Slim, The Photograph, 
Promising Young Woman, and 
Emma, among others.  
Universal has a long track record of amplifying and 
championing diverse voices, and we’re committed to 
strengthening that legacy even further.   
Telling stories that speak to women — and that  
were written and directed by women — is an  
essential part of that commitment.
DONNA LANGLEY
Chairman 
Universal Filmed Entertainment Group
A TECHWomen Advisory Committee panel discussion during the 2019 TECHWomen Summit.
 19 2019 Our Values in ActionTIER I
1-Year Change +11%
8-Year Change +345%TIER II
1-Year Change +9%
6-Year Change +320%SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
2018$588 M$4B
2012$140 M $902 MComcast NBCUniversal’s supplier diversity program is designed to promote, increase, and 
improve the participation of diverse businesses within our corporate supply chain — including 
companies owned by women, people of color, veterans, individuals with disabilities, and 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer individuals.  In 2014, we joined the Billion 
Dollar Roundtable, a top-level corporate advocacy organization that promotes supply 
chain diversity excellence, as its 21st corporate member and the first media and technology 
company to be inducted, for attaining $1 billion or more in annual Tier I supply chain diversity 
spend.  In 2018 alone, we spent $4.6 billion with diverse Tier I and Tier II suppliers.*
TIER II  
DIVERSE SPENDTIER I  
DIVERSE SPEND
  * Tier I are our direct suppliers; Tier II are subcontractors.+320%+345%$18B+ 
spent with diverse 
Tier I  suppliers  
since YE 2010$2B+ 
spent with diverse 
Tier II  suppliers  
since 2012
2018 2010
Comcast NBCUniversal 20Impacts of Supplier Diversity  
Reach Far and Wide
Supplier diversity is a win-win — 
that’s why we have more than 
3,000 companies in our supplier 
diversity network.  They strengthen 
our business units’ purchasing 
power, build value for our 
shareholders, and build wealth in 
the communities in which we live 
and work.  
Our procurement strategy does not 
end with finding and purchasing 
from diverse-owned businesses, 
however.  We also seek to build 
long-term relation ships with them 
and help them succeed.  “Our team 
spends a good deal of time working 
with our incumbent suppliers, 
identifying ways to expand their 
capacity, supporting their growth, 
and working collectively to develop 
solutions where problems may 
exist,” says Ajamu Johnson, Vice 
President of Procurement at 
Comcast NBCUniversal. 
Working with a Native Partner
In northwest Alaska, more than 
1,000 miles north of Juneau and 
just above the Bering Strait, lies a 
vast expanse of land known as the 
NANA region.*  At 38,000 square 
miles, it’s larger than Indiana 
but has few roads and only 11 
remote villages.  The region’s 7,000 
residents are primarily indigenous 
Iñupiats, who still rely mostly on 
hunting and gathering for their 
livelihoods. 
What may surprise some is that the 
Iñupiat people also benefit from 
Comcast NBCUniversal’s supplier 
diversity efforts.Akima, a $1.2 billion company, has 
been a Comcast NBCUniversal 
partner since 2015, supplying us 
with key networking and security 
hardware and software.  Akima 
is a subsidiary of the NANA 
Development Corporation, which is 
one of 13 companies formed by the 
Alaska Native Claims Settlement 
Act of 1971.  That federal law 
established the companies as a 
mechanism for creating income 
for indigenous Alaskans.  All of 
Akima’s board members and 
14,000+ shareholders are of Iñupiat 
heritage. 
“The wonderful thing about 
supplier diversity and the genuine 
partnerships we develop is that 
the success achieved is mutually 
beneficial,” says Johnson.  “In 
Akima’s case, those benefits 
extend all the way to Alaskan villages located above the Arctic 
Circle.”
Indeed, 100% of Akima’s net profits 
go to the Iñupiat shareholders, who 
have sole discretion over how the 
funds are distributed.  In addition 
to direct dividends to individuals, 
the profits are used for community 
development, cultural preservation, 
disaster relief, summer camps, 
and education, including college 
scholarships.  
*  “NANA” originally stood for Northwest Arctic Native 
Association, but only the acronym is used today.
What I love about  
my job at Akima is  
that it is directly  
helping our Iñupiat 
shareholders.
JUVY MCCARTHY
President of the Technology Solutions  
and Products Group 
 Akima
Juvy McCarthy (left) of Akima, one of Comcast NBCUniversal’s 3,000 diverse 
supplier companies.  All of Akima’s shareholders are of Iñupiat heritage.
 21 2019 Our Values in Action+1,673%  
increase in 
Online  
diverse hours   
since 2010+2,171% 
increase in On 
Demand  
diverse hours  
since 2010We strive to be a leader in authentic and compelling programming that connects with 
audiences across our platforms.  Our programming teams ensure that the content we create 
and distribute is inclusive and authentic to our audiences.  And, we are committed to sharing 
stories that draw from the human experience.  To make this happen, we work to represent 
diverse perspectives in every aspect of our programming — both in front of and behind the 
camera at NBCUniversal, and in the content we distribute on our Xfinity platforms.
  *  Increases and decreases next to each graph represent the growth rate of percentage representation.  For gender diversity the numbers reflect the growth rate since YE 2013; for 
ethnic diversity they reflect the growth rate since YE 2010. 
** The Entertainment & Lifestyle Group includes USA, Syfy, and Bravo. 
  † News assets includes NBC News, MSNBC, CNBC, and NBC-owned stations, but does not include Telemundo Network News or Telemundo stations.10,000
2010 2017 2018XFINITY: TOTAL DIVERSE HOURS
10,036
5668,516
375 Online    On DemandDIVERSE PROGRAMMING
PROGRAMMING ONLINE ON DEMAND
1-Year Change +51% +11% 
8-Year Change +1,673% +2,171%
WOMEN FILM E&L GROUP NBC SCRIPTED NEWS
1-Year Change -17% -7% -4% +1%
5-Year Change +32% -6% -5% +3%WOMEN FILM E&L GROUP NBC SCRIPTED NEWS
1-Year Change -18% +2% +16% +2%
5-Year Change +128% +34% +52% +10%
PEOPLE OF COLOR FILM E&L GROUP NBC SCRIPTED NEWS
1-Year Change +29% +14% -3% +5%
8-Year Change +105% +2% -2% +34%PEOPLE OF COLOR FILM E&L GROUP NBC SCRIPTED NEWS
1-Year Change +1% +3% +12% +2%
8-Year Change +187% +26% +47% +35%
0 0 50
 0 50
0 0 500 0 50
0 500 50Film Film
Film FilmEntertainment & 
Lifestyle Group**Entertainment & 
Lifestyle Group
Entertainment & 
Lifestyle Group**Entertainment & 
Lifestyle GroupNBC Primetime 
Scripted SeriesNBC Primetime 
Scripted Series
NBC Primetime 
Scripted SeriesNBC Primetime 
Scripted SeriesNews Assets†News Assets
News Assets†News AssetsOn Air (YE 2018) Behind the Camera (YE 2018)
On Air (YE 2018) Behind the Camera (YE 2018)NBCUNIVERSAL: ON AIR AND BEHIND THE CAMERA GENDER DIVERSITY*
NBCUNIVERSAL: ON AIR AND BEHIND THE CAMERA ETHNIC DIVERSITY*+32% +128%
+105% +187%35% 22%
30% 13%43% 33%
30% 18%39% 36%
35% 23%49% 58%
47% 27%-6% +34%
+2% +26%-5% +52%
-2% +47%+3% +10%
+34% +35%
Comcast NBCUniversal 22Michelle Rice, General Manager of TV One, delivers remarks at a reception celebrating 
the addition of CLEO TV and AFRO to the Xfinity lineup.
Two New Diverse  
Networks Launched
As part of our commitment 
to expand opportunities for 
diverse and independent cable 
programming, we have added 
over 20 independent networks 
since 2011, including four with 
Hispanic American ownership or 
management and four with African 
American majority ownership.  
The four Hispanic networks are 
BabyFirst Americas (2012), El Rey 
(2013), Kids Central (2017), and 
Primo TV (2017), while the first  
two African American networks 
were ASPiRE (2012) and REVOLT  
TV (2013). 
In 2019, following a thorough 
evaluation of dozens of proposals, 
Comcast launched two new 
additional African American 
majority-owned independent 
networks to be broadly distributed 
on Comcast Cable systems.  AFRO 
and CLEO TV are filling critical 
content gaps with top-quality 
program ming and lifestyle offerings targeting the black 
community.  
AFRO, an offering from the 
Afrotainment family of channels, 
is a 24-hour poly  cultural black 
network mainly broadcasting top- 
rated Nollywood (Nigerian) and 
black movies, dramas, sitcoms, 
music, talk, and late-night comedy 
shows.  CLEO TV (the name is 
derived from Cleopatra) is a brand-
new lifestyle and entertainment 
network from Urban One that 
offers movies, docu-series, sitcoms, 
talk shows, and travel, home 
design, and cooking shows geared 
toward young women of color.  
“We’re at a pivotal moment in 
history where women are making 
a huge impact in our society and 
culture, especially women of 
color,” says Michelle Rice, General 
Manager of TV One (which is 
owned by Urban One).  “CLEO TV 
offers a diverse mix of lifestyle and entertainment content through 
the unique lens of Millennial and 
young Gen X women of color, an 
audience segment that has been 
underserved.”  
 *  Subscriber Network Instances are defined as the 
number of networks that subscribers have as part of their 
programming packages.  For example, if a subscriber has 
a Hispanic programming tier with 40 channels, that would 
count as 40 Subscriber Network Instances.18K+ 
hours of diverse  
On Demand and Online 
programming offered  
in 2018
100+ 
diverse networks  
on Xfinity platforms
TOTAL DIVERSE SUBSCRIBER  
NETWORK INSTANCES*
2018379 M
2010203 M+86%
 23 2019 Our Values in ActionViggo Mortensen (left) and Mahershala Ali in Green Book, which won Best Picture, Best Supporting Actor for Ali, and  
Best Original Screenplay.
Creating 
Diverse, 
Authentic 
Stories
We are committed to cultivating 
diversity and inclusion 
throughout the company and 
our programming, both in front 
of and behind the camera.  The 
representation and authenticity of 
diverse individuals, cultures, and 
stories on air is vitally important to 
our viewers and our company. 
The box-office success and recent 
Oscar wins of Universal Pictures’ 
Green Book and Focus Features’ 
BlacKkKlansman validate the 
demand for deeply compelling 
narratives featuring diverse and inclusive casts.  Green Book is 
the true story of a working-
class, Italian-American bouncer 
who becomes the driver of an 
African American classical pianist 
on a concert tour through the 
American South in the 1960s.  The 
film grossed over $300 million 
worldwide and was nominated 
for five Academy Awards, 
winning three: Best Picture, Best 
Supporting Actor (Mahershala 
Ali), and Best Original Screenplay.  
BlacKkKlansman, the real-life tale 
of an African American detective 
in the 1970s who infiltrates the Ku 
Klux Klan, earned over $90 million 
at the global box office and won 
six Oscar nominations, including 
Best Picture and Best Director 
(Spike Lee), with Lee winning an 
Oscar (his first) for Best Adapted 
Screenplay. 
NBCUniversal takes pride in 
creating opportunities in the 
media industry.  One way we do this is through our more than 50 
diverse talent pipeline programs 
that identify and engage creative 
talent from a wide array of 
backgrounds.  The programs 
cover a range of roles, including 
directors, screenwriters, actors, 
music composers, and journalists.
“Our pipeline programs are 
important to NBCUniversal and to 
the industry at large,” says Craig 
Robinson, Executive Vice President 
and Chief Diversity Officer for 
NBCUniversal.  “We’re proud to 
have provided valuable experience 
to some of today’s most successful 
talent, both in front of and behind 
the camera.”
Juel Taylor dreamed of being a 
screenwriter after he earned a 
master’s degree in 2015 from one of 
the most prestigious film schools in 
the United States — the University 
of Southern California’s School of 
Cinematic Arts.  After graduation, 
he found himself working as a 
Comcast NBCUniversal 24freelance sound mixer and boom 
operator instead.  He didn’t know 
how to navigate the studio system 
and he didn’t know the right people. 
When Taylor was accepted to 
the Universal Writers Program, 
one of our diverse talent pipeline 
programs, it was just the break 
he needed.  “The program gave 
me access and exposure to studio 
creative executives who later went 
on to hire me,” says Taylor.  “I met a 
lot of people who ended up helping 
me in ways I didn’t expect.”
Launched in 2014 as the Emerging 
Writers Fellowship, the program 
was redesigned and rebranded 
as the Universal Writers Program 
in 2017 and aims to help diversify 
and level the playing field in 
screenwriting. 
For the year-long program, we 
hire talented screenwriters from 
diverse backgrounds and give 
them creative guidance on two feature-length scripts, teach them 
how the studio system works, and 
introduce them to key players in 
the industry. 
“The film industry, and the creative 
community at large, is very much 
relationship-driven,” says Janine 
Jones-Clark, Senior Vice President 
of Global Talent Development & 
Inclusion at the Universal Filmed 
Entertainment Group, who 
oversees the Universal Writers 
Program.  “In building and creating 
pipeline programs, we aim to 
create access for underrepresented 
voices and elevate their profiles 
with our executives and 
producers.” 
Soon after completing the program, 
Taylor was chosen to co-write the 
script for Creed II with Sylvester 
Stallone.  For Universal, Taylor 
and his writing partner, Tony 
Rettenmaier, penned the screenplay 
for an upcoming LeBron James 
biopic.  And in early 2019, Taylor and Rettenmaier sold the rights to 
an original short story, which they 
will now turn into a screenplay, for 
somewhere north of $1 million. 
In the past few years, we have 
also worked to diversify the film 
industry by signing a number of 
first-look deals with high-profile 
diverse talent, including Jordan 
Peele, Will Packer, Malcolm D. Lee, 
Eva Longoria, Marsai Martin, and 
Elizabeth Banks.
In television, one of our newest 
pipeline programs is NBC’s Female 
Forward, which gives experienced 
female directors the opportunity 
to break into scripted episodic TV.  
Female Forward launched in the fall 
of 2018 with 10 directors, each of 
whom was paired with a returning 
NBC show on which they shadowed 
on up to three episodes and then 
directed an episode.  Several 
participants have already been 
invited to direct second episodes.  
Screenwriter Juel Taylor, a graduate of the Universal 
Writers Program, one of NBCUniversal’s 50+ diverse 
talent pipeline programs.
Director Spike Lee with actors Ryan Eggold and Adam Driver on the set  
of BlacKkKlansman.  Lee won the Oscar for Best Adapted Screenplay.
 25  2019 Our Values in ActionWe support our communities by investing in local organizations, developing programs and 
partnerships, and mobilizing our resources to inspire and create positive, substantive change.  
This includes minority-led and minority-serving organizations; women-led and women-
serving organizations; and partnerships with other diverse organizations.  We’re passionate 
about community impact initiatives that extend our commitment to inclusion beyond 
the walls of our offices.  Our company and employees, along with thousands of nonprofit 
partners, work with a wide variety of diverse communities to support people of all ages, 
beliefs, and backgrounds.  This is part of who we are, and who we’ve always been.
$1.8B 
cash and in-kind giving 
benefiting minorities  
since YE 2010$87M 
total cash and in-kind giving to  
minority-led and minority-
serving organizations in 2018
CASH GIVING TO MINORITY-LED AND  
MINORITY-SERVING (MLMS) ORGANIZATIONSCASH GIVING TO WOMEN-LED AND  
WOMEN-SERVING (WLWS) ORGANIZATIONS
2018$17.9 M
2018$3.4 M
2010$5.8 M
2010$0.9 MD&I COMMUNITY IMPACT
CASH GIVING MLMS WLWS
1-Year Change +17% +13% 
8-Year Change +208% +293%+208% +293%
Comcast NBCUniversal 26Easterseals: Supporting 
Independence Through 
Assistive Technology
Technology can unlock a world of 
opportunities for individuals with 
disabilities — opportunities that 
also foster independence.  But 
many people with disabilities lack 
basic access to the tech tools that 
could radically improve their lives.
Since 2011, Comcast NBCUniversal 
has helped nearly 57,000 Americans 
with disabilities through our Fred 
J. Maahs, Jr., Assistive Technology 
Grant Fund to Easterseals, a 
nonprofit organization committed 
to expanding possibilities for  
children and adults with disabilities.   
The fund, named after the former 
Comcast executive who helped 
build the partnership and serves 
on the Easterseals National Board 
of Directors, supports a variety of 
technology programs and services, 
from braille-equipped handheld 
computers to augmentative 
communication devices. At Easterseals Colorado, clients like 
19-year-old Joe are able to learn 
a variety of technology-related 
skills in the Comcast Employment 
& Technology Center that help with 
critical independent living activities, 
such as managing budgets and 
shopping online for groceries.
In 2019, Easterseals is celebrating 
100 years of being a voice for 
individuals and families living 
with disabilities.  And looking 
ahead to the next 100 years, the 
organization hopes to ensure that 
everyone, regardless of age or 
ability, is 100% included and 100% 
empowered.  There is no doubt that 
technology will be a critical part of 
making that possible.  
Comcast NBCUniversal’s work  
with Easterseals is centered on 
deep engagement that goes  
much further than funding.  Our employees actively serve on 
the organization’s national and 
regional boards and participate 
in large-scale volunteer events 
through Comcast Cares Day.  We want everyone to 
be empowered to learn, 
to work, to be part of 
everyday life.  We want to 
advance people with all 
abilities as we continue 
to break down barriers to 
equal opportunities.
ANGELA F. WILLIAMS
President and  
Chief Executive Officer  
Easterseals
Since 2011, we have helped nearly 57,000 Americans with disabilities through our  
Fred J. Maahs, Jr., Assistive Technology Grant Fund to Easterseals.
$35M 
in support of 
Easterseals since 
2011$
 27 2019 Our Values in ActionDigital  
Connectivity
Internet Essentials is the nation’s largest and most 
comprehensive high-speed broadband adoption program 
for low-income households, connecting people to an 
increasingly digital world and offering them skills for  
success.  Since the launch of Internet Essentials in 2011, 
Comcast has connected more than 8 million individuals  
to low-cost, high-speed internet and to a wealth of 
knowledge and opportunity.  Comcast has invested  
$650 million in support of initiatives designed to raise 
awareness about the importance of the internet and  
boost digital skills, reaching 9.5 million people, and has 
provided 100,000 computers at a highly subsidized price.*
* Internet Essentials data are as of the first half of 2019.The 2018 expansion of our Internet Essentials program to low-income veterans  
helps vets like Josh Delano, shown here with his daughters, get a broadband 
connection at home. Extending Our Service to Veterans
An estimated 30% of low-income 
veterans don’t have internet 
service at home, according to 
the 2016 American Community 
Survey — and about 40% don’t 
have their own computer.  As a 
result, many veterans and their 
caregivers lack the digital tools 
and capabilities needed to access 
essential government benefits and 
resources, job opportunities, and 
social connections both within and 
beyond their military communities. 
In 2018, Comcast expanded our 
Internet Essentials broadband 
adoption program to reach an 
estimated 1 million low-income 
veterans living in our service area 
around the country.
As part of the expansion — the 
second largest in the program’s history and the 11th in seven 
years — we partnered with the 
Elizabeth Dole Foundation and the 
PsychArmor Institute to provide 
digital skills training and increase 
awareness about the Internet 
Essentials program. 
Internet at home makes a huge 
difference — financially and socially 
— for veterans, their caregivers, and 
their families. 
When Josh Delano left the Navy 
after four deployments to spend 
more time with his two school-age 
daughters, he struggled to make 
ends meet.  With help from the 
federal G.I. Bill, he began studying 
electrical engineering at California 
State University, Fresno, but there 
were many day-to-day living 
expenses he hadn’t anticipated.  Home internet seemed to be a 
luxury he couldn’t afford.
Delano found himself spending 
long hours at his college and local 
libraries to access the internet, and 
it began taking a very personal 
toll.  “No internet at home meant 
giving up more time with my kids, 
which is the main reason I left the 
military in the first place,” he says. 
Getting internet through the 
Internet Essentials program 
allowed him to study, read online 
textbooks, email his professors and 
classmates, and submit course 
assignments right from his kitchen 
table.  Being connected at home 
also allowed Josh to spend more 
time with his daughters while 
successfully completing his degree.
“Time was my most precious 
resource, and I needed to conserve 
time to do all my homework, help 
out my kids with their homework, 
and do what I needed to do to 
maintain a home,” says Delano, who 
got a job as an electrical engineer 
after graduating in June 2018.  
30% 
of low-income veterans  
don’t have internet  
at home
 29  2019 Our Values in ActionExpanding  
Opportunity  
Through  
Technology
At Comcast NBCUniversal, we’re 
on a mission to ensure that all 
individuals — regardless of zip code 
or income — can harness the power 
of technology to achieve their full 
potential.  We’re doing this in every 
community we serve, because 
we’re firm believers that when 
people can get ahead in school, 
in their careers, and in their lives, 
everybody benefits. 
While broadband access is a 
real problem in rural areas and 
tribal lands, the more immediate 
opportunity is to focus on the 
issue of broadband adoption.  The 
fact is that millions of Americans 
already live in communities with 
access to broadband networks, yet 
they choose not to subscribe.  The 
question is, why?
The No. 1 barrier to broadband 
adoption — by a mile — is a bucket 
of complex digital literacy and 
relevance issues.  Many of the 
unconnected don’t understand 
what the internet is or even how 
to use it.  Equally important, they 
don’t understand the relevance 
the internet has to their daily lives 
and to the well-being of their 
families.  The No. 2 barrier is that 
many low-income households 
don’t own a computer — and can’t 
afford to buy one.  Barrier No. 3 is 
the monthly cost of subscribing to 
home broadband service.The cruel irony here is that the 
more broadband technology 
advances, the further behind 
it leaves people without home 
broadband connections — who 
happen to be the very people 
who would benefit the most from 
the equalizing potential of the 
internet.
“People in underserved 
communities without technology, 
education, and training are 
being excluded from all types of 
opportunities,” says Dalila Wilson-
Scott, Senior Vice President of 
Community Impact for Comcast 
Corporation and President of 
the Comcast NBCUniversal 
Foundation.  “It’s incumbent 
on us to support ways we can 
democratize technology and use 
it to empower our communities.  
If we, as one of the largest media 
and technology companies in the 
world, don’t focus on ensuring 
all people have access and opportunity to support their great 
ideas, then who will?”
Connecting the Unconnected
The cornerstone of our company’s  
efforts to address the three barriers 
to broadband adoption and close 
this digital divide is Internet 
Essentials, the nation’s largest 
and most comprehensive internet 
adoption program for low-income 
households.  Launched in 2011, 
Internet Essentials has connected 
more than 8 million people to low-
cost ($9.95 per month), high-speed 
internet at home.  Additionally, 
100,000 households have opted 
to purchase a heavily subsidized, 
internet-ready computer through 
the program for less than $150.
At the core of the program is 
supporting and collaborating 
with thousands of nonprofit 
partners across the country to not 
only raise awareness of Internet 
Essentials, but also to deliver 
Comcast NBCUniversal partners with Hopeworks, a nonprofit that teaches young 
people critical technology skills.  Pictured are Hopeworks staffer Kate Daughtery 
and client Stephon Simpson (see p. 11 for more).
Comcast NBCUniversal 30We’re really proud to support a cause so 
closely tied to what we do as a business.
KARIMA ZEDAN
Vice President of Digital Inclusion and Internet Essentials 
ComcastPartnering for Progress
A generation ago, proficiency in 
numeracy and literacy were baseline 
skills to enter the workforce.  Today’s 
workplaces, however, require digital 
competency — and that’s not just 
for jobs in technical fields.  Positions 
at every level and in virtually 
every sector, from healthcare to 
manufacturing, education to retail, 
require employees to engage with 
an ever-growing array of digital 
tools.  That’s why we are investing in 
programs that help people progress 
from digital literacy to the real-world 
application of skills in the workforce.
We are working with organizations 
that are providing diverse — and 
traditionally underserved — 
communities with resources to 
bridge the opportunity divide.  For 
example, we have chosen to partner 
with the National Urban League and 
UnidosUS, two leading organizations 
with longstanding and proven 
histories of tackling challenging 
issues in communities of color.  Our 
work is focused on helping these 
communities prepare for the digital 
economy, because studies show they 
are disproportionately affected by 
the digital divide.  The Joint Center 
for Political and Economic Studies, 
in research funded by Comcast 
NBCUniversal, found that 27% 
of African Americans and 31% of 
Hispanics are concentrated in 30 
occupations at high risk of being 
eliminated or fundamentally changed 
by automation.
For Comcast NBCUniversal, closing 
the opportunity divide in our 
communities is critical.  And while 
there is still much work to be done, we 
are investing resources, applying our 
expertise, and leveraging the breadth 
of our business to make a brighter 
future possible for more people.8M+ 
low-income Americans 
connected to the internet 
at home through Internet 
Essentials$188M 
in total support provided to 
the National Urban League 
and UnidosUS since 2001KEY METRICS
high-quality digital skills 
training.  Since the program 
began, we have provided 
$650 million in cash and in-
kind contributions, reaching 
9.5 million people, thanks 
to the support of partners who are training individuals 
new to the internet, teaching 
young people to code, and 
helping jobseekers navigate 
the complexities of an online 
world, among many other 
examples.  
 31 2019 Our Values in ActionBuilding Better Connections
“Humbling” is the word Comcast 
Communications Technician 
Jamaine Cash uses to describe 
what it’s like to connect the 
digitally unconnected.
Cash is among Comcast’s 2,500+ 
Internet Essentials Ambassadors, 
employees who volunteer to spread 
the word about our broadband 
adoption program, which aims to 
close the digital divide — the gap 
between those with an internet 
connection at home and those 
without. 
“Having an opportunity to do 
good at my job and a way to give 
back is some thing I look forward 
to doing every day,” says Cash, who promotes the program at 
community events in and around 
greater Philadelphia.  “Whether I’m 
handing out a flyer or volunteering 
for an event, it makes me feel 
accomplished knowing that I made 
a difference in someone’s life.”  
Today, more than ever, high-speed 
internet at home is a critical tool 
for learning, doing homework, 
finding jobs, discovering skills, 
and connecting to one another.  
Internet Essentials is ensuring 
that all low-income households 
in Comcast’s service area have 
the opportunity to benefit from 
the vast resources and knowledge 
that come with being digitally 
connected.Since Comcast launched Internet 
Essentials in 2011, we have 
connected more than 8 million 
low-income Americans to the 
internet at home.  Eighty percent 
of these customers are people 
of color, and 75% are women.  
Over the past eight years, 
we have made more than 35 
enhancements to the program, 
doubling down on our investment 
by improving the quality of the 
internet service, stream  lining 
the application process, and 
engaging communities more 
deeply.  Eleven of these program 
enhancements made the universe 
of potential customers ever-
larger by expanding the eligibility 
requirements.  
For Sujita Dhakal, who moved 
to Colorado from Nepal in 2010, 
Internet Essentials helped ease 
Through Internet Essentials, Sujita Dhakal, who moved to Colorado from Nepal, was able  
to use the internet to translate words and ease her transition to American culture.I’m learning so many  
new things from the 
internet, including how 
to adjust to America.  
Internet Essentials 
changed my life.
SUJITA DHAKAL
Internet Essentials customer
Comcast NBCUniversal 32INTERNET ESSENTIALS: CUMULATIVE IMPACT
6M
15K35K58K80K
1M5M
2.4M
2M4M8M
2019 2011Individuals Connected   8M+
75K
25K50K100K
2019 2011Subsidized Computers Sold
100K
her transition to American culture.  
When she came to the United 
States, the language barrier proved 
difficult.  Working to make ends 
meet in a new country while caring 
for their young son and daughter, 
she and her husband didn’t see 
much of each other. 
She learned about Internet 
Essentials from a neighbor 
who had the service.  “I use the 
internet to translate words I don’t 
understand, to apply for a driver’s 
license, to get my beautician’s 
license, to apply for citizenship,” 
she says.  $650M 
invested since  
2011 in digital  
literacy training 
and awareness 
programs
80% 
of Internet Essentials  
customers are  
people of color9.5M 
people reached  
through digital  
literacy training 
and awareness   
programs
75%  
of Internet  
Essentials  
customers  
are women
Girls at an Internet Essentials event in Florida go home with laptops. 
KEY METRICS
Comcast Communications Technician and Internet Essentials Ambassador  
Jamaine Cash helps a customer.
 33 2019 Our Values in ActionOther Key  
Initiatives
Beyond our three key focus areas of diversity and inclusion, 
community impact, and digital connectivity, Comcast 
NBCUniversal uses our size, scope, and scale to make a 
meaningful difference in three other important areas: 
environmental sustainability, military engagement, and 
accessibility.  We’re building a more environmentally 
sustainable company, providing opportunities for military 
families, and making our products, services, and experiences 
accessible to a broad range of audiences.
Sustainability Military 
EngagementAccessibilitySustainability
From improving the fuel efficiency of vans in our fleet, 
to designing energy-efficient products for use in our 
customers’ homes, Comcast NBCUniversal is building a 
more environmentally sustainable company.  To get there, 
we focus on sustainable innovation in four impact areas: 
Energy + Emissions, Products + Experiences, Materials + 
Waste, and Engagement + Outreach.  And we have set long-
term, aspirational goals: zero emissions, zero waste, and 
100% renewable energy.  We are also combining our dual 
commitments to sustainability and community service: In 
2019, we surpassed our goal — one year early — of providing 
500,000 volunteer service hours on environmentally friendly 
projects by 2020. 
Fresh herbs are grown in The Market, the employee cafeteria at our Comcast Technology Center.  Across the Comcast  
Center Campus in Philadelphia, excess food is given to local hunger-relief organizations through an app-based service  
called Food Connect.
 35  2019 Our Values in ActionAiming for 
Zero Waste
Food waste is a critical global 
challenge.  According to the 
Natural Resources Defense Council, 
approximately 40% of food in 
the United States — or more than 
125 billion pounds each year — is 
thrown out, and food is the primary 
contributor to landfills.  When food 
goes to waste, so does the water, 
soil, fertilizer, and labor that went 
into producing it.  At the same time, 
food insecurity affects an estimated 
one out of eight Americans, 
according to Feeding America.  
At Comcast NBCUniversal, we have 
set a long-term, aspirational goal 
of becoming a zero waste company 
— and that includes food waste.  
Throughout our operations, we 
are conserving resources by being 
mindful of what we use and how 
we use it.  And we have strategies 
in place to manage the waste we 
do create.
Our attention to food waste may 
surprise some.  But our operations 
and facilities feed thousands and 
thousands of people every day — at 
our theme parks, our numerous TV 
and film production sets, and our 
various employee cafeterias, as well 
as through Spectra, a company in 
which Comcast holds a minority 
ownership stake that manages food 
service operations at more than 240 
sporting and event venues across 
North America.
At our Universal Orlando theme 
park, Chef Steve Jayson, Vice 
President and Corporate Chef for 
Universal Parks & Resorts, works to 
plan meals for tens of thousands of hungry guests every day at more 
than 200 dining destinations — all 
while reducing food waste. 
“A chef tries to make use of every 
part of a chicken, or salmon, or a 
piece of fruit,” says Jayson.  “That’s 
sustainability in its own way.”
In 2018, aggressive programs 
at both Universal Studios 
Hollywood and Universal Orlando 
Resort resulted in diverting 
more than 5,800 tons of food 
and compostable paper-based 
products from landfills.
At many of our locations, we 
donate edible leftovers to the local 
community.  More than 10,000 
pounds of food is donated annually 
from our NBCUniversal employee 
commissaries at Universal City 
Studios, DreamWorks Animation, 
and 30 Rockefeller Center.  And in 
2018 alone, 54 NBCUniversal film 
and television productions in 13 
cities around the world donated 
more than 43,300 pounds of excess 
food from set.  
Of course, reducing food-related 
waste is just one aspect of our 
zero waste efforts.  Comcast’s National Recycling Program has 
recycled or diverted from landfill 
more than 51.7 million pounds 
of cable equipment waste since 
2014.  Halloween Horror Nights at 
Universal Studios Hollywood reuses 
more than 120 tons of materials 
each year — including decorative, 
construction, staging, set 
dressing, electrical, and animation 
materials.  And on the television 
and film side, our Sustainable 
Production Program focuses 
on waste reduction, recycling, 
responsible sourcing, and energy 
efficiency.  In 2018, NBCUniversal 
received 38 Green Seals from the 
Environmental Media Association — 
the most of any production studio 
for the fourth year in a row.  
51.7M 
pounds of cable equipment  
waste recycled or diverted  
from landfills since 2014
We have set a long-term, aspirational goal of becoming a zero waste company — 
and that includes food waste from our employee cafeterias, including The Market.
Comcast NBCUniversal 36The Future Is  
Renewable
Comcast NBCUniversal operates 
out of more than 3,000 buildings, 
ranging in size from our 60-story 
Comcast Technology Center to 
cable headends* the size of a 
garden shed.  The sheer scope of 
our physical footprint makes our 
goal that much more audacious: 
We aim to power all of our 
buildings, as well as our network 
and operations, with 100% 
renewable energy. 
“Energy use is one of our biggest 
areas of opportunity,” says Susan 
Jin Davis, Chief Sustainability 
Officer for Comcast NBCUniversal.  
“We are looking for operational 
efficiencies to conserve energy 
while also investing in renewable 
energy where we can.  We know 
that renewables are the future.” 
According to the U.S. Energy 
Information Administration, 
only about 11% of energy 
consumed and 17% of energy 
generated in the United States 
in 2017 came from renewable 
sources.  A recent report from 
the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change found that 
renewables will need to make up 
a minimum of 63% of the world’s 
electricity generation by 2050 if 
we are to limit global warming 
to a 1.5°C increase over pre-
industrial levels. 
Our 100% renewables goal, while 
long-term and aspirational, 
reflects the company’s 
determination to do our part 
in the transition toward a low-
carbon future, and we’re taking action across our operations.  
Comcast Cable’s Northeast 
Division has installed solar panel 
systems at nine locations in four 
states, with several more systems 
planned for 2019.  Two of the 2018 
installations were large-scale solar 
carports — one at the division’s 
headquarters in Manchester, 
N.H., and one at our call center in 
Plymouth, Mass. 
We’re also harnessing wind 
power.  Comcast Spectacor, which 
operates the Wells Fargo Center 
in Philadelphia, announced that it 
will purchase 9 megawatts worth 
of renewable energy certificates 
(RECs) from Constellation, a 
retail energy company.  The RECs 
will be invested in the HillTopper 
wind project in Illinois and will be 
equivalent to 100% of the power 
used at the Wells Fargo Center. 
As we make strides toward our 
100% renewable energy goal, we 
are working to make our overall 
use of energy more efficient — 
no matter the source.  In the 
Northeast Division, we have 
measured and analyzed energy use in every technical facility 
we operate, ultimately finding 
efficiencies that reduced 2.7 
megawatts of energy from our 
baseline consumption in the 
division.  
*  A headend is a broadband electronics station, where 
cable television signals are processed and distributed.
Our zero emissions goal applies to our entire operational fleet, including 
our Xfinity vans.4K 
equivalent number 
of passenger vehicles 
eliminated from 
the road through 
investment in the 
HillTopper wind  
project
17.5K  
Xfinity vans and  
trucks equipped  
with fuel efficiency 
software11M 
kilowatt hours  
reduced annually 
through investment  
of nearly $5 million  
in LED lighting  
in 2018KEY METRICS
 37  2019 Our Values in ActionU.S. Army Brigadier General (Retired) Carol Eggert, Senior Vice President for Military and Veteran Affairs at Comcast 
NBCUniversal, shown here speaking to employees, leads our efforts to encourage other companies to hire veterans and others 
from the military community.
Military  
Engagement
Comcast NBCUniversal stands with those who have served 
our country and their families.  As one of America’s most 
military-friendly employers, we have pledged to hire a total 
of 21,000 members of the military community between 2015 
and the end of 2021.  We also provide enhanced benefits for 
active-duty National Guard and Reserve employees.  And, 
we contribute to military-related nonprofits, supporting 
nearly 400 organizations with $151 million in cash and in-
kind contributions since 2001.  In 2018, we expanded our 
Internet Essentials broadband adoption program to low-
income veterans living in our service area.  
Comcast NBCUniversal 38Leading the Way on Military Hiring
Military veterans and National 
Guard and Reserve members 
make terrific employees.  Not all 
companies recognize the benefits 
of hiring veterans, however.  
“There are still so many stigmas 
and stereotypes that prevent 
companies from committing to 
military hiring,” says Marjorie 
Morrison, founder and former CEO 
of the PsychArmor Institute, which 
provides no-cost, online education 
to individuals who work with, live 
with, or care for members of the 
military community.  “For example, 
some employers may believe that 
vets just follow orders — that they 
aren’t innovative.  That’s a myth, of 
course, as Comcast NBCUniversal 
and other companies can attest.”
Another barrier?  Hiring managers 
often can’t decode the resumes 
of veterans and need help 
understanding how military jobs 
can translate into civilian ones.
To help overcome both the 
misleading stereotypes and the 
more mundane hurdles of hiring, 
we at Comcast NBCUniversal have 
been sharing our knowledge and 
experience with other companies 
to encourage them to draw 
employees from the military 
community.
In 2018, we sponsored the Veterans 
at Work Certificate Program, an 
online training program for human 
resources professionals who would 
like to improve their military hiring 
capabilities.  The program was 
created by the SHRM Foundation 
— the nonprofit arm of the Society 
for Human Resource Management 
(SHRM) — in partnership with the PsychArmor Institute and Syracuse 
University’s Institute for Veterans 
and Military Families. 
We are also encouraging 
employers to hire from the 
military community through 
our involvement with Hiring 
Our Heroes, an initiative of the 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
Foundation.
Through these and other efforts, 
we hope other companies will be 
inspired to hire members of the 
military community.  Doing so 
not only benefits the companies 
themselves — they gain reliable, 
talented, and experienced 
employees — but it’s also a 
meaningful way to give back to 
those who have given so much.  
Marjorie Morrison, founder and former CEO of the PsychArmor Institute, which 
offers no-cost, online courses for employers who would like to improve their military 
hiring capabilities.KEY METRICS
400 
military organizations  
supported since 2001
$151M 
cash and in-kind giving to  
military-related nonprofits  
since 2001
21K 
committed to hiring 21,000 
members of the military 
community by the end of 2021 
 39  2019 Our Values in ActionU.S. Army Brigadier General (Retired) Carol Eggert, Senior Vice President for Military and Veteran Affairs at Comcast 
NBCUniversal, speaks to a member of the U.S. Army during a military hiring celebration event at the Comcast Cable 
Freedom Region office in Voorhees, N.J. 
Brennan Hammer, Senior Manager of Human Resources in 
Comcast Cable’s Central Division, was one of nearly 90 Comcast 
NBCUniversal employees who participated in our MILDev 
Symposium.  
 
 
Steve Salata, Comcast Cable’s Vice President for Customer 
Care Repair & Reliability, networks with other employees 
at our Military Influencer & Leader Development (MILDev) 
Symposium, a multi-day event for Comcast NBCUniversal 
employees from the military community.  
 
Comcast NBCUniversal 40A Military 
Spouse Finds 
Support and 
Community
Nancy and Bruce McLain were lucky 
to have survived the Vietnam War.
Bruce, just a teenager at the time, 
served 13 months in Vietnam under 
the Special Operations Group, part 
of a team tasked with finding and 
rescuing missing and imprisoned 
soldiers.  Of the 100 men on his 
team, only five made it home alive.  
While physically unscathed, Bruce 
suffered from post-traumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD) and survivor’s guilt.
Nancy, born in Vietnam at the 
height of the war, doesn’t recall 
much from her early years in 
Saigon or her family’s post-war 
escape.  But a few harrowing 
memories stand out: the terror of 
the Viet Cong; her family fleeing 
the country on a crowded boat 
captained by her father; and 
arriving in Malaysia as a frightened 
6-year-old. 
Nearly two decades later, Nancy 
and Bruce met in Los Angeles, 
where Nancy’s family eventually 
resettled.  Bruce had transitioned 
to civilian life after serving eight 
years in the Army and Air Force.
“We didn’t know right away that 
we had both been in Vietnam — 
that awareness unfolded over 
time,” says Nancy, “but I feel like 
it’s part of why we were meant 
to be together.  We’ve definitely 
helped each other heal and move 
on from those experiences.”  As a Legal Technology Specialist 
at Comcast NBCUniversal in 
Los Angeles, Nancy has found 
friendship and support in the 
Veterans Network, the company’s 
8,400-member Employee Resource 
Group (ERG) focused on military 
veterans, National Guard and 
Reserve members, military spouses, 
and their supporters. 
The company’s promise to give 
back to those who served — and 
their spouses — is the same no 
matter if the individual is actively 
serving or served decades ago.  
We know that many veterans 
have sustained physical and 
psychological injuries that may 
require life-long support.
“As a spouse, you can feel lonely 
in what you’re dealing with,” 
says Nancy, who joined Comcast 
NBCUniversal in 2013.  “But with 
the Veterans Network, I have a 
support system.”  
Comcast NBCUniversal is 
committed to supporting military 
spouses in the same way it does 
military veterans and Guard and 
Reserve members.  Our unique 
Transfer Assistance Program helps 
employees who are spouses of active-duty military find new jobs 
when a military reassignment 
forces them to move.  We are also 
a founding member of the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce’s new 
Hiring 100,000 Military Spouses 
Campaign, a three-year initiative 
that is raising awareness of 
military spouse unemployment, 
which stands at 16% nationally, 
more than four times the civilian 
average.  Military spouses  
are such a vital  
part of the military 
community.  We  
work hard to ensure  
they get the support  
they need to be  
successful on the job.
CAROL EGGERT
U.S. Army Brigadier General  
(Retired) and Senior Vice President  
for Military and Veteran Affairs  
Comcast NBCUniversal
Bruce and Nancy McLain and their children at a Wreaths Across America  
event sponsored by our Veterans Network Employee Resource Group.
 41 2019 Our Values in ActionAccessibility
Comcast NBCUniversal is committed to making our 
products, services, and experiences accessible to the 
widest possible audiences — creating new pathways 
to independence and inspiration for people with 
disabilities.  We’re continuously innovating to expand 
the utility of our products, from the cable industry’s 
first talking guide, to narrated voice descriptions of TV 
programs, to remotes that can be manipulated through 
eye-tracking devices — all of which are available today.  
We are also committed to making our workplaces 
inclusive for employees of all abilities and to building 
a workforce that reflects the demographics of the 
disability community.
Comcast NBCUniversal 42Celebrating Global 
Accessibility Awareness Day
Back in 2011, a web developer in  
Los Angeles penned a blog post for 
his fellow engineers, questioning 
why it was so hard to figure 
out how to make the internet 
more accessible for people with 
disabilities. 
“I would argue that it’s more 
important to make a [web]
site accessible than pretty … an 
accessible internet literally makes 
a world of difference,” Joe Devon 
wrote at the time.  “Although I’m 
a back-end programmer, I’m still 
ashamed at how little I know.  How 
about you?”
He challenged his peers to create a 
Global Accessibility Awareness Day 
(GAAD) for the tech industry, and 
by the following May, the very first 
GAAD had been born.  These now-
annual events aim to get people 
talking, thinking, and learning 
about digital access and inclusion 
for people with all types of abilities 
and disabilities. 
In 2018, Comcast NBCUniversal 
marked GAAD not just with a single 
day, but also with a full week of 
activities.  This first GAAD Week was 
designed to showcase all the work 
we do around disability inclusion 
both inside and outside of our 
company.  We wanted to engage 
and inspire our own workforce by 
showing how we innovate with 
accessibility top of mind.  And we 
wanted to highlight the many ways 
we meet our customers where 
they are, making products more 
compatible with their needs.“Accessibility starts with the 
recognition that disability is not 
the lack of an ability,” says Tom 
Wlodkowski, Comcast Cable’s Vice 
President of Accessibility.  “It’s 
the lack of a solution.  We define 
accessibility as the measure of how 
effectively people with disabilities 
can interact with our services.”
GAAD Week included a company-
wide, town-hall-style webcast 
that introduced some of our latest 
accessible products, as well as 
the employees behind them, and 
an inspirational keynote speech 
from Paralympic medalist Danelle 
Umstead.  
Comcast NBCUniversal employees demonstrate accessible technology during  
Global Accessibility Awareness Week.
2.7M 
set top boxes with at  
least one accessibility  
feature enabled
 43 2019 Our Values in ActionOpening Doors Through Disability Mentoring 
The doors kept shutting before 
Bernadette Krause ever had an 
opportunity to pass through.
With a degree in media studies and 
production from Temple University, 
Krause had the skills for a wide 
range of entry-level jobs in her 
hometown of Philadelphia.  But 
despite applying for more than 
100 positions leading up to and 
after her 2016 graduation, she 
never moved beyond the telephone 
interview phase.
The reason seemed more than 
obvious to her.  Potential employers 
grew skittish, she says, when 
she told them she has spastic 
quadriplegia cerebral palsy, 
which necessitates full-time use 
of a wheelchair and workplace 
accommodations such as speech-
assisted computer technology.
“As soon as I disclosed my 
disability, the people screening my 
interview would find a way to end 
the conversation,” Krause says.  “I 
felt that I was being discriminated 
against, although I had no way to 
prove it.”
Then, in October 2016, she 
learned that Comcast would be 
hosting its Disability Mentoring 
Day in Philadelphia.  Part of a 
national effort coordinated by the 
American Association of People 
with Disabilities, the annual event 
promotes career development for 
people with disabilities through 
hands-on job exploration and 
ongoing mentoring relationships.
Krause and other mentees spent 
a full day at the Comcast Center, 
participating in resume reviews, mock interviews, and networking 
and mentoring sessions.  Fast-
forward to June 6, 2017, Krause’s 
first day on the job as a 
Community Manager for Talent 
Acquisition at Comcast. 
In advance of Krause’s first day, 
the company wanted to ensure it 
had the right accommodations in 
place, such as widened bathroom 
stall doors for easier access and 
automated hallway doors on the 
34th floor, where Krause would be 
located.  And before she arrived, 
the Human Resources department 
trained Krause’s soon-to-be 
coworkers and building security 
personnel about her service dog, 
Gusto, who would accompany 
Krause to work each day.  
Bernadette Krause (right), now a member of our Corporate Communications 
Social Response Team, first connected with Comcast during our Disability 
Mentoring Day in Philadelphia.  
 
 
 
 I am so grateful to 
Comcast.  They were the 
only company willing 
to take me on, with 
all of my needs and 
accommodations, and 
they let me prove that I’m 
capable, willing to work 
hard, and able to be a 
beneficial employee.
BERNADETTE KRAUSE
Corporate Communications  
Social Response Team 
Comcast
Comcast NBCUniversal 44comcastcorporation.com/valuesreport