Conagra Brands  
Citizenship Report  
2021Conagra Brands Citizenship Report 2021CONTENTS
Overview
From our President and  
Chief Executive Officer 3
Conagra Brands at a Glance 4
Citizenship Philosophy and Focus Areas 5
2021 Highlights  6
Materiality: What Matters,  
Where it Matters  7
Good Food
Food Safety  9
Nutrition  10
Product Transparency  12
Responsible Marketing to Children 13Responsible Sourcing
Supply Chain Practices 14
Sustainable Agriculture Program  15
Sustainable Sourcing  18
Priority Ingredients  19
Supply Chain Water Risk  21
Sustainable Packaging  22
Sustainable Packaging & Plant-Based  
Protein Centers of Excellence 23
Better Planet
Operational Sustainability  24
Sustainable Development  
Awards Program 24
Environmental Management  25
Climate Change  26
Energy Use & Efficiency  27
Water Use & Water Quality  28
Eliminating Waste  29Stronger Communities
Corporate Ethics 30
Employee Health & Safety 31
Food Safety Culture 32
Diversity & Inclusion 33
Employee Resource Groups 37
Community Engagement  38
2021 Recognition & Honors 39
Community Investment and Foundation 40
SASB Disclosure
2021 SASB Disclosure 46
About this Report
Reporting Parameters  50
Contact  50
2
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTFrom our President and Chief Executive Officer
At Conagra Brands, we have 
long embraced six timeless 
values that guide our work: 
Integrity, External Focus, Broad-
Mindedness, Agility, Leadership 
and Results. With these principles 
at the core of all that we do, 
corporate responsibility comes 
naturally. And as 2021 challenged us with 
a second consecutive year of disruption to nearly 
every aspect of our daily lives, Conagra leveraged our 
timeless values to stay responsive to our stakeholders 
– our employees, our investors, our communities 
and the consumers who rely on Conagra to deliver 
safe, delicious, affordable and nutritious food. 
First among our timeless values is Integrity: we do 
the right things and do things right. Throughout 
this report, you’ll find stories of the great work of 
our employees to ensure that Conagra lives this 
value every day. I’m confident that as you review 
our key accomplishments to-date and our goals 
for the future you’ll be as encouraged as I am. 
We have many stories to share at Conagra, and I 
share a few of my favorites from the year, below.
Nourishing our People
Safeguarding the health and wellbeing of our team 
has been our foremost responsibility throughout the 
COVID-19 pandemic. I am grateful to our dedicated 
employees for their tireless efforts to ensure our food is 
getting to customers and consumers. Throughout 2021, 
our teams displayed Agility to ensure we delivered 
for customers and consumers while staying safe.
Also during 2021, we continued our work to ensure 
everyone at Conagra feels valued and heard, and has an 
opportunity to succeed. During the year, we introduced 
an employee learning approach anchored in inclusive behaviors, we continued to build upon our diversity 
and inclusion strategy to support the recruitment, 
advocacy for and development of diverse talent, and 
we made progress on our 2025 representation goals 
related to women and people of color. I am proud 
to celebrate the strides we’ve made to advance our 
company’s culture. At Conagra, that’s Leadership.
At Conagra Brands, Integrity is among 
our timeless values: we work hard to 
do the right things and do things right. 
Every day, our employees exhibit their 
commitment to Integrity by building more 
sustainable production and business 
practices, advancing our culture of 
belonging and giving back to help end 
food insecurity in our communities.
Nourishing the Planet 
In January 2020, we announced an important goal: 
to make 100% of our plastic packaging renewable, 
recyclable or compostable by 2025. I am proud 
that today, approximately 93 percent of Conagra’s 
packaging material by volume meets this standard. 
In addition, our team’s focused work to reduce waste 
has led to the avoidance of more than 23 million 
pounds of plastic packaging since fiscal year 2017, 
including 11 million pounds avoided in fiscal year 
2021. At Conagra, we know that building a circular 
economy for plastics in the United States requires a 
multi-faceted approach. We have therefore joined the 
U.S. Plastics Pact, a collaborative of more than 850 
organizations and led by The Recycling Partnership 
and World Wildlife Fund to build scalable solutions 
toward the vision of eliminating plastic waste. And we were focused on much more than plastic 
reduction in 2021. Through our 12th annual 
Sustainable Development Awards, employee-
led sustainability initiatives decreased Conagra’s 
carbon footprint by more than 90,000 metric tons 
and conserved 64 million gallons of water. Through 
Broad-Mindedness and a Results orientation, 
our employees continue to find innovative ways 
to develop more sustainable operations. 
Nourishing our Communities
Remaining Externally Focused at Conagra means 
many things, and among them is giving back to the 
communities we call home. We have a long history of 
working to fight food insecurity and provide access to 
healthy and nutritious foods in our communities. During 
2021, we continued this work. Through partnerships 
with hundreds of dedicated nonprofit partners across 
the country, Conagra employees volunteered more 
than 6,600 hours. We also donated the equivalent of 
25 million meals to Feeding America and its network 
of food banks. Helping to improve the quality of life 
for families across the U.S. is truly a collective effort 
and I’m grateful for how we support our neighbors. 
We strive to create long-term profitable growth at 
Conagra and deliver strong shareholder returns every 
year. Corporate social responsibility has been, and will 
remain, an important part of our journey. We believe that 
when Conagra is nourishing others, it too will thrive.
On behalf of everyone at Conagra Brands,  
I thank you for your continued support.
Sean M. Connolly 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
3
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEW
Conagra Brands at a Glance
Employees
Approximately
18,600
Headquarters
Chicago
Revenue
Approximately
$11.2 B
Facilities
45
®
Brands1
Include
1 Visit conagrabrands.com  for a full list of brands.
4
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEWCitizenship Philosophy and Focus Areas
For our consumers and employees, our communities and our planet, Conagra Brands’ commitment is to nourish—community, health and growth. This means making food 
that’s delicious, safe, nutritious and convenient, while addressing the key economic, environmental and social impacts directly linked to our activities and products, such as 
through our connection to our employees and our relationships with farmers, suppliers, customers and others. 
We look forward to making good food for generations to come and doing it the right way. Our citizenship strategy includes four focus areas: Good Food, Responsible Sourcing, 
Better Planet and Stronger Communities. Together, these strategic pillars articulate our values and ambitions as a responsible corporate citizen. 
Good Food  
We continuously strive to make safe, 
delicious and nutritious foods, while 
providing the information that consumers 
need to make educated food choices.
Pictured: MEDITERRANEAN QUINOA 
SALAD with Hunt’s® Diced Tomatoes 
with Basil, Garlic and OreganoResponsible Sourcing
We approach the sourcing of ingredients 
and packaging materials with care and 
consideration, taking into account 
environmental, social and economic 
impacts across our value chain.
Pictured: Hunt’s tomato growers, Calif.Better Planet
The health of the planet and availability 
of natural resources are intricately linked 
to every part of our business. We’re 
especially focused on reducing our 
business’ impact on climate change, 
preserving water resources and 
eliminating waste in our operations.
Pictured: Solar farm at our 
St. Elmo, Ill. facilityStronger Communities
We care deeply about our employees 
and invest in their growth, success and 
overall wellbeing. The same philosophy 
applies to our communities. In our 
communities where we live and work, 
we take action to address the issue of 
food insecurity by activating a variety  
of our resources, including employee 
volunteerism, product donations and 
financial contributions.
Pictured: Omaha employees 
celebrating Pride Month
5
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEW2021 Highlights
Through our employee-led 
Sustainable Development 
Awards program, we:
  conserved 64 million 
gallons of water
  decreased our carbon 
footprint by 91,000  
metric tons 
  reduced waste by more 
than 12,300 tons and 
minimized material use 
by 17.6 million pounds       
Approximately 93% of 
Conagra’s packaging 
materials by volume were 
renewable, recyclable or 
compostable,1 progressing 
towards our 2025 goal.
1  Estimates are based, in part, on industry-wide average weights and 
post-consumer recycled content levels, guided by best practices on 
environmental footprint accounting.We achieved a 100% on the 
Human Rights Campaign’s 
Corporate Equality Index  for 
the seventh year in a row.
To help alleviate hunger and 
food insecurity where our 
employees live and work, 
we donated 30 million 
pounds of food to Feeding 
America  and its network 
of food banks, which is the 
equivalent of 25 million meals.
6
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEWMateriality: What Matters, Where it Matters
We identify our environmental, social and governance (ESG) priorities through a materiality analysis. Our materiality analysis incorporates our current business strategies  
as well as relevant stakeholder dialogues. Our most recent materiality analysis identified 21 priority topics across our four strategic pillars: Better Planet, Good Food, 
Responsible Sourcing and Stronger Communities.
Our Citizenship strategy is deeply rooted in this holistic and objective view into what topics matter most. We conduct this analysis with an eye on how our activities impact 
global efforts to reach the UN Sustainable Development Goals . The UN’s 17 goals address challenges such as access to food, inequality, climate change, water scarcity,  
and community empowerment, and intersect with Conagra Brands’ material ESG priorities, goals and management strategies.
Conagra Brands 
Materiality Assessment:
Relative priority 
of corporate 
citizenship topics
IMPORTANT STRATEGIC CRITICALSIGNIFICANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS
SIGNIFICANCE TO CONAGRA’S BUSINESS STRATEGY AND IMPACT••
•Water Consumption  •
Product Transparency  •
Transportation & Logistics  •Food Safety  •
Sustainable Sourcing  •
Packaging  •
Culture & Workplace  •
• Employee Health & Wellness• Solid Waste• Energy Use• Climate Change• Corporate Ethics• Health & Nutrition
• Diversity & Inclusion• Supplier Code of Conduct
• Environmental Compliance• Animal WelfareFood Policy  •
DeforestationFood Waste
Community Impacts & Philanthropy
Stronger CommunitiesBetter PlanetResponsible SourcingGood Food
7
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEW
Conagra Brands Materiality Assessment:
Relative Priority of Corporate Citizenship Topics1 Based on Conagra’s internal assessment of the success metrics for each UN Goal, as compared to our CSR efforts.Alignment of Material Topics with the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals
Each of Conagra Brands’ CSR efforts support a  
component of the UN Sustainable Development Goals.1
CRITICAL STRATEGIC IMPORTANT
Food Safety: 2, 3, 9 Water Consumption: 6, 12 Deforestation: 2, 11, 15
Health & Nutrition: 2, 3, 9 Product Transparency: 2, 3, 12 Animal Welfare: 2, 14
Corporate Ethics: 1, 5, 8, 10, 16 Food Waste: 2, 12 Transportation & Logistics: 7
Supplier Code of Conduct: 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 16 Sustainable Sourcing: 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 13, 14, 15
Climate Change: 7, 11, 13 Packaging: 2, 8, 11, 12
Diversity & Inclusion: 1, 5, 10 Food Policy: 9
Environmental Compliance: 3, 6, 8, 12 Culture & Workplace: 3, 4, 5, 8, 16
Energy Use: 3, 7
Solid Waste: 8, 11, 12
Community Impacts & 
Philanthropy: 1, 2, 4, 11, 17
Employee Health & Wellness: 3, 5
8
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEWAs leaders in  
food safety, we are 
continuously looking for 
innovative solutions to 
modernize food safety 
practices throughout 
our operations.
Food Safety
Food safety is ingrained in the culture of Conagra 
Brands, as we recognize that making food that our 
consumers can safely enjoy is the responsibility 
of everyone at the company. Consistent with this 
commitment, Conagra Brands has dedicated 
Food Safety & Quality teams who are responsible 
for managing the integrity of our food—beginning 
with sourcing ingredients and all the way through 
preparation and delivery to our customers and 
consumers. These teams are comprised of subject 
matter experts who provide functional leadership on all 
matters related to food safety and quality, including:
• Food safety and quality in production and distribution
• Supplier food safety and quality
• Consumer affairs
• Sanitation
• Allergens
• Microbiology, toxicology, and chemistry
• Thermal processing
• Religious certification (Kosher, Halal)
• Engineering
• Foreign material contamination
• AuditingOutside of the company, we work closely with our 
suppliers to ensure food safety and the quality of 
our ingredients. Our suppliers use an accredited 
certification body to audit against Global Food 
Safety Initiative (GFSI) standards annually. 
Approximately 95% of our direct suppliers have 
completed GFSI-recognized certification.
We also engage outside experts to help ensure that 
our food safety and quality programs are continuously 
improving. We have a Food Safety Council, which 
provides ongoing input and advice on new and 
emerging food safety practices. The Council’s members 
are recognized in the industry for their expertise in 
specific food safety disciplines such as food science, 
microbiology, public health and public policy.
As leaders in food safety, we are continuously 
looking for innovative solutions to modernize food 
safety practices throughout our operations. We have 
invested in new technologies that will further help 
us operate our supply chain more efficiently and 
effectively to continue to deliver safe and high-quality 
products. In addition, we have embraced the Food 
Safety Modernization Act (FSMA), and remain actively 
engaged with industry and the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) as this important law continues to 
be implemented. In the rare event that our food does 
not meet our high standards for regulatory compliance, 
quality assurance or food safety, we take prompt 
marketplace action as necessary. For additional Food 
Safety metrics please refer to our SASB disclosure.
9
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > GOOD FOODNutrition
Conagra Brands continuously innovates to deliver 
foods with nutrition benefits that meet today’s 
consumer expectations. Within our Health for All 
nutrition platform, we focus on four pillars:
1. Nutrient-rich whole food
2. Sustainable nutrition
3. Access to healthy food
4. Personal health goals 
Nutrient-Rich Whole Food Focus
Nutrition research shows that shifting people toward 
better eating habits cannot focus solely on nutrients. 
Instead, it should promote healthier eating patterns 
with more nutrient-rich whole foods. Today, many 
consumers are seeking more whole foods that contain 
ingredients they trust to help them achieve their 
health and wellness goals, and we are dedicated 
to providing solutions to meet their needs. 
Whole vegetables, whole grain popcorn and frozen 
meals that deliver vegetables and quality protein make 
up the majority of our portfolio. The nutrient quality 
of our product portfolio was recently evaluated by 
ATNI in its 2021 Global Access to Nutrition Index and 
continues to score strongly. After rigorous nutrition 
evaluation by ATNI of food companies across the globe, 
Conagra Brands remained #1 in the Product Profile 
among companies with mixed product portfolios. 
The addition to our portfolio of Birds Eye,® which 
provides numerous healthy frozen vegetable options 
for consumers, has helped our portfolio Health Star 
Rating score improve since 2018. In addition, our 
Healthy Choice® brand exemplifies our nutrient-rich 
whole food strategy. In particular, the Healthy Choice brand’s Power Bowls line features modern flavors with 
unique nutrient-dense vegetables and whole grains 
for consumers seeking healthy and nutritious food.
Sustainable Nutrition 
At Conagra Brands, we believe that a sustainable 
food system supports human as well as planetary 
health. Conagra recognizes the UN FAO definition 
of sustainable diets , which takes into consideration 
nutrition and health, cultural context, and economic, 
social and environmental impacts. With that in mind, 
Conagra Brands utilizes NutriScore, an internationally 
recognized metric, to assess the nutrition of products 
in our vegan and vegetarian portfolio. Vegan and 
vegetarian meals and meat replacements with a 
NutriScore A or a B met our threshold for sustainable 
nutrition. Approximately 80% of our vegan and 
vegetarian meals and meat alternatives currently meet 
this bar and include options from our Healthy Choice, 
Frontera,® and Birds Eye and Gardein® brands.
Encouraging a greater proportion of plant-based 
foods and preventing food waste are key facets of 
the UN FAO sustainable diets definition. Plant-based 
offerings are a significant part of our business, and 
comprise 79% of all ingredients by volume that we 
procure. Our Gardein brand of vegan plant-based 
proteins generated more than $173 million in retail 
sales in fiscal year 2021. Our line of Gardein products 
allows vegans, vegetarians, and flexitarians to enjoy 
high quality protein from plant-based foods, and helps 
move our portfolio toward earth-friendly proteins 
that are good for people and the planet. Supplying 
essential vitamins, minerals and plant protein, Birds 
Eye is our biggest brand and generated more than $1.5 
billion in retail sales in fiscal year 2021. Using frozen 
vegetables, rather than fresh vegetables, allows for 
longer storage and may help prevent food waste.
Gardein® Chick’n 
Scallopini Vegan 
Fettuccine Alfredo
10
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > GOOD FOOD
Meeting 
Personal  
Health Goals
Advancing 
our Nutrient-
Rich PortfolioGrowing 
Sustainable 
Nutrition
Increasing 
Access to 
Healthy FoodHealth  
for AllIn October 2021, Conagra was named a “pioneer” 
and the top-ranked U.S. company on sustainable 
protein research and innovation  by The FAIRR 
Initiative, an investor network that defines material ESG 
issues in the animal agriculture sector to help inform 
investment decisions. FAIRR’s sustainable proteins 
engagement report, “ Appetite for Disruption: A Final 
Serving ,” is supported by more than 100 investors with 
combined assets of nearly $18 trillion. We continue to 
build on these successes by innovating new plant-based 
products and offering viable options for consumers 
looking to incorporate more plant foods into their diets.
Access to Healthy Food
Conagra strives to increase access to healthy food. 
By working with government agencies, retailers, and 
food service customers, we actively bring visibility to 
foods that meet criteria for federal nutrition programs, 
such as Women, Infants and Children (WIC) and 
Child Nutrition Programs. By doing so, we help 
families have greater access to healthier foods.WIC has been successfully improving the health 
outcomes of low-income pregnant women and young 
children for more than 50 years. It provides $3 billion for 
healthy food to more than 6 million program participants 
each year and has been shown to successfully decrease 
food insecurity. We work with every participating 
state to identify WIC-eligible SKUs in our portfolio, 
further improving access to healthful options like 
beans and vegetables. To date, we’ve added more 
than 350 SKUs to states’ WIC-approved product 
lists, enabling visibility to eligible foods that otherwise 
would not be available for WIC shoppers. Birds 
Eye frozen vegetables, Hunt’s and Rotel® tomatoes 
and Rosarita® beans exemplify foods that provide 
nutrition and economic value to WIC participants.
The USDA has recently recognized the important role 
canned and frozen food can play in improving nutrition 
security with the 2021 updated Thrifty Food Plan. 
Recognizing that convenience is crucial for families 
receiving SNAP benefits, the new plan includes and 
encourages the use of canned beans and frozen 
pre-cut vegetables. In general, frozen vegetables cost 
less per serving than fresh vegetables and last longer, 
reducing food waste and improving nutrient intake. 
With our strong portfolio of frozen and canned staples, 
such as Rosarita, Hunt’s and Birds Eye we are proud 
to offer numerous delicious and accessible options. Personal Health Goals
Food has become an integral part of health maintenance 
for many consumers. To support diverse health needs, 
consumers adhere to numerous personal nutrition goals 
and protocols. We are committed to developing foods 
that align to popular dietary patterns such as keto, low 
carb, paleo, vegan, vegetarian, no added sugar and 
heart health. For our health and wellness products, 
our food design framework includes nutrient guardrails 
that enable our food scientists and chefs to create 
recipes that deliver the intended nutrition attributes. 
These attributes come to life in products like  
Healthy Choice single-serve meals that meet the 
regulated FDA definition of Healthy and provide lower 
carbohydrate, gluten free and heart-healthy options. 
With that in mind, Conagra introduced Healthy Choice 
Zero, a healthy main dish with fewer than 10 net 
grams of carbohydrates and zero added sugar. We 
also created Healthy Choice Max which provides 
a high-protein meal. These options help offer more 
choices for consumers trying to balance healthfulness 
with the desire for convenience and enjoyment. 
Birds Eye® Sesame 
Broccoli Skillet
11
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > GOOD FOODProduct Transparency
Conagra Brands is committed to providing access 
to the information consumers want and need to 
make informed decisions about what they eat.
SmartLabel
SmartLabel leverages mobile technology to 
provide consumers with easy access to product 
information—detailed nutritional information, 
ingredient definitions, allergens, ingredient 
certifications such as USDA organic and Non-
GMO Project Verified, and many other product 
attributes, as well as associated manufacturing 
practices like waste, energy and water use 
reduction. Currently, we have approximately 
5,000 pages live on smartlabel.org .Genetically Modified Ingredients
Many of our products, such as Hunt’s tomatoes 
and most of our Alexia® vegetable SKUs, are 
Non-GMO Project Verified . Conagra fully 
supports, and is in compliance with, the National 
Bioengineered Food Disclosure Law, which requires 
food companies to disclose certain information 
about genetically modified ingredients.
Allergen Labeling
The Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection 
Act requires food manufacturers to clearly indicate 
when they’ve used one of eight major allergens: milk, 
eggs, fish, crustacean shellfish, peanuts, tree nuts, 
wheat, and soy. For any branded foods that contain 
one of these allergens, we include a plain language 
“Contains” statement below the ingredient statement. 
Effective January 1, 2023, the FASTER Act of 2021 
adds sesame as the ninth major food allergen in the 
U.S. We are in the process of updating our allergen 
disclosures for branded products in the U.S. to 
satisfy the requirements of this law. For products sold 
outside the U.S., we label our products to meet any 
additional allergen disclosure requirements, such as 
for mustard in Canada. Some of our food packages 
might feature a precautionary “May Contain” statement. 
Conagra closely monitors allergen management trends 
and other food safety risks and works to minimize 
potential impacts. We always use Good Manufacturing 
Practices (GMPs) and thoroughly clean our equipment 
after using allergen-containing ingredients.Gluten-Free Products
Our portfolio offers options for consumers looking 
for gluten-free foods, including Udi’s® and Glutino® 
bread, snacks, pizza and baking mixes. According 
to FDA labeling rules, any foods bearing a “Gluten 
Free” claim must contain less than 20 ppm (parts 
per million) gluten. To ensure full compliance with 
the FDA’s defined standard for gluten content, 
Conagra only uses the “Gluten Free” claim on a 
food after implementing comprehensive testing 
protocols, including ingredient reviews, facility 
suitability and overall product composition.
12
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > GOOD FOODResponsible Marketing to Children
Since 2007, Conagra has participated in the  
Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative 
(CFBAI)  of the Council of Better Business Bureaus 
(BBB). We adhere to CFBAI’s criteria, including that 
advertised foods contribute important food groups: 
fruits, vegetables, non/low-fat dairy, whole grains, key 
nutrients, or some combination of these components. 
OUR COMMITMENTS  
TO THE CFBAI  
INCLUDE:
• Devoting 100% of our advertising directed to 
children under 12 years of age to products 
that meet CFBAI’s uniform nutrition criteria.
• Not seeking product placements 
in children’s programming.
• Not running advertising primarily directed 
to children under 6 years of age in TV, radio, 
print or online, including websites, online 
games, DVDs and other video formats, 
mobile apps, and word of mouth platforms.
• Not advertising our foods to children 
in elementary schools, even foods that 
meet CFBAI’s nutrition criteria. This 
commitment applies to the entire school, 
its facilities and grounds, and covers the 
entire school day, whenever children are 
under the supervision of the school or 
third parties on behalf of the school.CFBAI’s criteria also set rigorous standards that limit 
calories, saturated fat, sodium and added sugars.
Conagra also abides by the guidelines established by 
the Children’s Advertising Unit (CARU) of the BBB  
to further ensure we market to children responsibly. 
CARU’s standards are intended to promote child-
directed marketing that is not deceptive, unfair, 
or inappropriate, taking into account the unique 
vulnerabilities of a younger audience. CARU’s 
guidelines do not allow, among other things, claims 
that unduly exploit a child’s imagination or sales 
pressure techniques that create a sense of urgency.
Natural Product Claims 
Conagra Brands has implemented an internal Natural 
Council, which is responsible for carefully reviewing all 
proposed natural claims for Conagra Brands’ products. 
Comprised of cross-functional team members from 
Conagra’s Legal, Regulatory, Product Development, 
Labeling and Food Safety & Quality departments, 
the Natural Council ensures all Conagra products 
featuring a natural claim meet the applicable U.S. laws 
and regulations and the company’s requirements for 
such claims.1 These requirements were developed, 
and are updated as necessary, to be consistent with 
the USDA’s Natural Policy and the FDA’s guidelines 
for natural claims. All Conagra products with a natural 
claim at a minimum do not contain artificial or synthetic 
ingredients, artificial flavors or colors, or are not 
preserved through the use of chemical preservatives.
1  To the extent any Conagra Brands products bearing a natural claim are 
sold or distributed outside the U.S., this statement is not intended to 
provide any assurances by Conagra Brands as to the compliance of the 
natural claim with any applicable laws or regulations of the country where 
the products will be sold or distributed.
13
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > GOOD FOODSupply Chain Practices
Supplier Code of Conduct
Conagra’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers  applies 
across the board to all of our suppliers and covers 
legal compliance with workplace and human rights; 
animal welfare; health, safety and the environment; 
ethical dealings; and monitoring and recordkeeping. 
Standards address non-discrimination, no forced 
or compulsory labor, no child labor, immigration 
law compliance, freedom of association, animal 
welfare, deforestation and other areas. 
Each requirement within our Supplier Code of 
Conduct must be met and supported by appropriate 
documentation. We maintain full rights to inspect 
facilities and review applicable documentation to 
ensure compliance. Our Supplier Code of Conduct 
also specifies that our suppliers must take reasonable 
actions to ensure that their suppliers and sub-
contractors are in compliance with our Supplier Code 
of Conduct. We provide guidance to our suppliers 
regarding subcontracting and require them to replicate 
our requirements all the way down their supply chains.
Conagra Brands uses a rigorous due diligence 
process to ensure that we have appropriate 
documentation regarding new suppliers and the 
materials we purchase from them. This includes, but 
is not limited to, spec sheets, allergen information, 
conflicts of interest disclosures, third-party audits 
and country of manufacture statements.
Our Supplier Quality and Risk teams review all materials 
to be purchased, where those materials come from, 
the potential supplier’s third-party audit, proposed final use of the material and other information about 
the material or supplier. The Supplier Quality team 
also looks at new suppliers’ conformance with specific 
expectations set forth in our Supplier Expectations 
Manual.  Our Risk team’s due diligence screens 
specifically include criteria related to environmental 
compliance, child labor and human trafficking. 
Dedicated procurement staff provide continuous 
support to each direct supplier via periodic 
touchpoints to discuss any sustainability 
developments or other issues that might arise.
Supplier Excellence Program
The Supplier Excellence Program applies to our 
top direct material suppliers, which, in 2021, 
included 55 suppliers and approximately 50% of 
our overall spend on food ingredients, commodities 
and packaging direct material spend.
As part of our Supplier Excellence Program, Conagra 
Brands assesses key suppliers at least annually on 
their ESG risk-related performance and disclosure. 
Metrics that we review include the supplier’s publicly 
available: responses to the CDP Water, Forest and 
Investor questionnaires, GRI-compliant reporting, and 
policies/commitments that address sustainability risks 
specific to the supplier’s industry, including climate 
change. The annual sustainability assessment is 
supplemented by quarterly performance discussions 
and risk analyses, and we work in partnership with our suppliers to address any issues or gaps. 
We recognize top performing suppliers at our 
annual Supplier Excellence Summit, with awards 
to recognize suppliers who represent industry best 
practices in Sustainability and Diversity & Inclusion. 
Winners are chosen from among the highest-rated 
suppliers according to our ESG risk assessment.
14
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGConagra’s carrots, 
peas, sweet corn, and 
green bean crops are all 
grown in the U.S. from 
a network of farms.
Sustainable Agriculture Program
2030 Decade of Ag Vision
Conagra Brands is a proud partner of U.S. Farmers 
and Ranchers in Action , working across the value 
chain with farmers, ranchers, food and agriculture 
stakeholders to co-create sustainable food systems. 
We support USFRA’s vision that farmers and 
ranchers enable the food systems of the future, 
support biodiversity, water conservation and water 
system restoration. We agree with USFRA that U.S. 
agriculture has the potential to support each of the 
2030 UN Sustainable Development Goals, with an 
outsized positive impact on a core group of seven.We are proud to continue our partnership with USFRA 
and over 150 stakeholders across the value chain 
in supporting the Decade of Ag Vision . Created 
in 2020, the Decade of Ag mobilizes a sector-
specific leadership network putting farmers and 
ranchers at the center to build on prior action and 
momentum to focus investments and innovation.
In 2021, USFRA presented the Decade of Ag 
Vision on a global level at the UN Food Systems 
Pre-summit in Rome, the UN Food Systems 
Summit General Assembly, and in Glasgow at COP26. Because of USFRA’s efforts and this 
shared vision, farmers and ranchers have an 
opportunity to participate when it comes to global 
conversations about ensuring a sustainable 
future for our food systems and environment. 
Conagra contributes to the Decade of Ag Vision 
through our Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) 
program, a circular approach to our ag-focused 
manufacturing operations, and supplier engagements 
on sustainable sourcing for priority ingredients.
15
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGCarrots, Peas, Sweet Corn & Green Beans
Conagra’s carrots, peas, sweet corn, and green bean 
crops are all grown in the U.S. from a network of 
farms. Our farmers want the land to be healthy for 
future generations and they use smart practices to 
save water, support biodiversity, and improve soil 
health to help fight climate change. We have invested 
in technology in the fields to monitor the plants’ 
nutrient needs using real-time data. This allows us 
to sync harvesting with our production schedule, so 
that our vegetables are picked at peak ripeness and 
transported directly to our plants that are ready to 
receive, wash and freeze them within a few hours. 
Sustainability is a key component in our farm 
management plans. Our farmers complete a GAP 
survey to minimize ESG risks within Conagra’s supply 
chain and maximize sustainability benefits through 
confirmed actions such as a land use risk assessment, 
traceability to each production area, and a farm water 
quality assessment. As part of the GAP program and 
individual farm management plans, these farmers: 
• Support soil health  through crop rotation, 
planting cover crops and minimizing 
tillage (plowing) to reduce erosion; 
• Reduce water consumption  through advanced 
irrigation techniques like in-field sensors 
and recycling water where possible;• Reduce fertilizer application  by implementing 
the use of Variable rate fertilizer application 
technology and application of nitrogen as needed;
• Reduce herbicide application  by strategically 
following sweet corn with field corn in our crop 
rotation, which has eliminated the need for over 
2,670 gallons of post-emergence herbicide;
• Reduce pesticide application  by strategically 
following potatoes with carrots in our crop 
rotation, which has reduced the application of 
soil fumigants on fields by 56,250 gallons;
• Filter water runoff and preserve ecosystem 
biodiversity  through on-farm conservation buffers 
- small areas of vegetation or strips of land; and
• Support healthy pollinator populations by 
accessing bee habitat data via resources such as 
FieldWatch, a non-profit academic collaborative that 
promotes communication between crop growers 
and beekeepers in support of stewardship and 
responsible use of agricultural inputs. Birds Eye 
growers located adjacent to rivers and lakes  
also plant erosion-reducing buffer zones with 
perennial crops such as clover, which provide  
food for pollinators.  Broccoli & Cauliflower
SOIL HEALTH MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 
Through integrated pest management and 
monitoring practices, farm worker education, and 
sustainable farming practices, our main broccoli 
and cauliflower supplier has reduced the volume of 
pesticides, including neonic and broad-spectrum 
contact insecticides, required annually by an 
estimated 5%. Through targeted soil analysis, drip 
irrigation, crop rotation and re-integration of organic 
crop residues into the soil, our main broccoli and 
cauliflower supplier has reduced the volume of 
fertilizer required annually by an estimated 5%.
PROCESSING SUSTAINABILITY 
Our main broccoli and cauliflower processor is 
dedicated to sustainability, and ranked 22nd 
in Forbes’ Top 40 most Sustainable Mexican 
Companies due to their continued environmental 
commitment. They implement water saving 
strategies throughout the processing flow, such 
as wastewater reclamation, recycling, and reuse 
systems. Energy usage is constantly tracked using 
over 1,000 energy censors, with 80% of their 
total energy generated through green energy. Any 
waste created during the manufacturing process is 
composted and reused as natural fertilizer for crops.
16
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGHunt’s® tomato 
growers, Calif.
Popcorn 
100% of our supply is at 
low risk for contributing 
to agricultural runoff 
pollution in the 
Gulf of Mexico.1
Tomatoes 
Since 2017, all of our contracted growers’ tomato 
fields have implemented the California Processing 
Tomato Sustainable Practices Workbook. The 
Workbook provides a base of best sustainable 
practices for growers to compare to their own 
operation, and includes topics such as soil, water 
and pest management. Our farmers apply pesticides 
and herbicides directly to the plant’s base through 
banded application, which reduces the amount 
of soil that receives pesticides or herbicides and 
reduces the volume of chemicals applied by 
approximately 75%, compared to typical broadcast 
application practices that achieve the same result. 
All of our farmers closely monitor their fertilizer 
application rates through soil sample analyses 
throughout the growing season. Our farmers utilize 
drip irrigation on 98% of their fields, reducing overall 
water use by nearly 15% compared to traditional furrow 
irrigation systems. Conagra partners with suppliers to 
transport raw tomatoes in near zero emission CNG-
powered trucks, avoiding more than 10,000 metric 
tons of CO² emissions in the 2021 fresh pack season. Our organic tomato suppliers span across 50 acres 
of production, and value the importance of water 
conservation in our agricultural systems. When 
implemented at full capacity, their on-farm aquifer 
recharge project will be able to recharge 1,000 acre 
feet of flood water per day. Renewable energy provides 
one-third of our organic supplier’s energy needs, 
and additional energy efficient technologies such as 
energy saving sprinkler heads and Variable Frequency 
Drives help reduce on-farm greenhouse gas emissions 
by 3,700 tons CO² per year. They provide valuable 
ecosystem services through their 4-acre wildlife 
refuge, which is home to pond turtles, great blue 
herons, hawks, short eared owls and other wildlife.
We are working with our tomato growers to increase 
cover crop adoption, which can further reduce 
the need for pesticides and herbicides. In 2022, 
we plan to increase cover crop acreage by 50% 
and reduce aerial pesticide applications on our 
conventional tomato supply by 10%. In addition, 
we are exploring options to increase the number of 
growers adopting beneficial insect habitat by the 
end of 2023, with a focus on tomato growers. Reducing Waste and Supporting 
Circularity in Agriculture 
In addition to strong grower practices, Conagra utilizes 
green manufacturing processes and works with 
local crop, livestock and dairy producers to support 
circular agricultural systems and a circular economy 
as envisioned by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation.2 
Our Hunt’s tomato facility in Oakdale, Calif. cleans 
and recycles water used to process tomatoes 
into farm irrigation water, supporting conservation 
throughout the supply chain and regeneration of local 
watersheds. Our Birds Eye facility in Waseca, Minn. 
generates 240 million of unneeded byproducts from 
peas, sweet corn and rice production annually – and 
every pound is recycled locally into livestock feed or 
fertilizer. This facility also recycles water used to clean 
and process vegetables back into irrigation water 
to grow food for animals, growing enough forage 
to feed a 170-head livestock herd for one year. 
1  Conagra risk assessment based on U.S. Geological Survey Gulf of 
Mexico hypoxia data and USDA Farm Service Agency data on planted 
popcorn acreage
2  According to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, a circular economy seeks 
to rebuild capital, whether this is financial, manufactured, human, 
social or natural. Conagra’s corporate citizenship activities support 
select elements of a circular economy
17
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGSustainable Sourcing
As stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct, Conagra 
Brands is committed to the following and requires 
the same of its suppliers to commit to: reducing 
environmental impacts such as deforestation, 
greenhouse gas emissions, and waste generation; 
protecting water resources through restorative or 
conservation efforts; supporting social needs in the 
communities in which it operates though philanthropic 
investment, diversity and inclusion, human rights 
practices; and supporting traceability efforts of 
goods and services throughout the supply chain.
All Conagra goods and services are sourced in 
accordance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, 
which incorporates the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights  and the International 
Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning 
fundamental rights set out in the International 
Labour Organization’s Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work .
Conagra requires its suppliers to implement humane 
procedures in support of the five freedoms of animal 
welfare at all times, including when animals are raised, 
cared for, transported, and processed. Conagra 
requires that suppliers provide an environment 
that is free from stress, cruelty, abuse, and neglect 
throughout the life of the animal. Where noted below, 
Conagra’s animal welfare policy includes compliance 
with additional commodity-specific policies, goals and 
standards for responsible animal housing and care.
Conagra discloses deforestation risk management 
practices for paper fiber packaging, beef, soy, palm oil, 
and cocoa via the annual CDP Forests Questionnaire. 
Our 2021 CDP Forests responses  earned a 
Management B score on cattle products, palm oil, 
timber and soy for taking coordinated action on  
forests issues. In fiscal year 2021, Conagra’s total 
ingredient buy by volume was 
approximately  79% plant-based  
Cocoa, sourced from West Africa79%
18
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGPRIORITY  
INGREDIENTSPRIMARY SOURCING 
REGIONSRISK MANAGEMENT 
PRIORITIESPRIMARY RISK  
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 
PLANT-BASED Sweet Corn, Peas, 
Carrots, Green Beans, 
Popcorn, Tomatoes, 
Broccoli, CauliflowerMidwest and Western  
United States, MexicoAgricultural inputs and 
impacts; water scarcitySee Sustainable Agriculture section
Soy United States Agricultural inputs and 
impactsApproximately 98% of our volume comes from suppliers assessed at least annually on ESG performance as part  
of Conagra’s Supplier Excellence Program.
100% sourced from areas designated as low risk for deforestation.2 As stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct, 
Conagra Brands does not directly procure soy from the Amazon, the Cerrado or the Gran Chaco in Latin America.
Palm Oil Indonesia, Malaysia Ecosystem impacts, including 
deforestation; labor practices100% of our palm oil buy is covered by Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Mass Balance certification.
Cocoa West Africa Ecosystem impacts, including 
deforestation; labor practices100% of total volume is sourced from suppliers that have one or more of the following: Rainforest Alliance Chain 
of Custody certification; NDPE policy (No high value conservation deforestation, no peatlands development, and  
no labor exploitation); 2025 or 2030 net zero deforestation goals that include reforestation and agroforestry  
efforts that support biodiversity.
ANIMAL BYPRODUCTS Dairy United States Animal welfare Conagra Brands sources primarily from the U.S., where major dairy suppliers adhere to the National Dairy 
Farmers Assuring Responsible Management  establishes dairy animal welfare management standards for the 
dairy industry, which addresses dehorning and includes a ban on tail docking.
The program utilizes 3rd party evaluators that certify that standards are being followed on the farm.
Eggs Midwest United States Animal Welfare Approximately 67% of our volume comes from suppliers assessed at least annually on ESG performance as  
part of Conagra’s Supplier Excellence Program. In FY21, approximately 20% of our egg usage was cage free; 
approximately 40-50% of our egg usage will be cage free by the end of fiscal year 2022; approximately 60-70% 
of our egg usage will be cage free by the end of fiscal year 2023; and we will directly source 100% cage free 
eggs by the end of fiscal year 2024, one year earlier than our original commitment to directly source 100% cage 
free eggs by 2025 .3
ANIMAL INGREDIENTS Broiler Chickens United States Animal welfare Approximately half of our volume comes from suppliers assessed at least annually on ESG performance as part  
of Conagra’s Supplier Excellence Program or individual sustainability assessments by our in-house sustainability 
team. Conagra Brands’ ambitious 2024 broiler chicken animal welfare goal  is included in our Supplier Code  
of Conduct. 
Beef United States, Canada, 
Uruguay, BrazilEcosystem impacts,  
including deforestationApproximately 79% of our beef is sourced from suppliers assessed at least annually on ESG performance as part 
of Conagra’s Supplier Excellence Program. 
Approximately 68% of our beef is sourced from suppliers that are members of the U.S. Roundtable on  
Sustainable Beef.
Conagra Brands’ Supplier Code of Conduct states that Conagra Brands does not procure beef directly sourced 
from areas at high risk for deforestation,4 specifically the Amazon, the Cerrado and the Gran Chaco in Latin 
America. Our deforestation avoidance requirements are included in our Supplier Code of Conduct. Approximately 
98% of our beef is sourced from areas designated as low risk for deforestation. The remaining 2% of our annual 
beef supply originating from Brazil is directly sourced from suppliers that employ continuous satellite monitoring 
for deforestation.
1  Progress numbers are approximate, and may vary annually due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data methodology
2, 4  According to data from WWF Living Forests Report , Ceres Engage the Chain  and WRI Global Forest Watch Analysis
3  This timeline reflects our best estimate of future egg volumes.Priority Ingredients
1 1
19
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGPRIORITY  
INGREDIENTSPRIMARY SOURCING 
REGIONSRISK MANAGEMENT 
PRIORITIESPRIMARY RISK  
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 
ANIMAL INGREDIENTS Pork United States Animal Welfare In FY21, approximately two thirds of our pork volume came from suppliers that have public gestation crate-free 
pork targets. Within our pork supply chain, there is industry movement to modify housing for sows, as well as 
industry-wide challenges transitioning to crate-free systems. 
100% of raw pork is sourced in accordance with the Pork Quality Assurance Plus (PQA Plus) standards for animal 
welfare, food safety, public health, and other responsible business practices.
We remain engaged with our pork suppliers regarding their housing systems and will continue to explore sourcing 
opportunities for gestation crate-free pork as supply becomes available.
Seafood Bering Sea Overfishing,  
ecosystem impacts99% of our seafood is third-party certified sustainable, either via Marine Stewardship Council or the Global 
Aquaculture Alliance’s Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP) certification.
100% of Van de Kamp’s and Mrs. Paul’s products include sustainably sourced fish through Marine Stewardship 
Council certification.
Continued from previous page
20
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCING1  Source: European Environment Agency report “Water Resources Across Europe—Confronting Water Scarcity and Drought,” 2009. 
21
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
SOURCE COUNTRIES 
(ALPHABETICAL)WRI WATER STRESS 
LEVEL (2021)PRIMARY RISK  
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
Brazil Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.
Canada Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.
Colombia Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.
Côte d'Ivoire Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.
Ecuador Low–Medium Annual evaluation of supplier efforts to track, disclose and manage  
water risk.
European Union (various) Varies, though majority of 
geographies fall in Low–MediumAnnual evaluation of supplier efforts to track, disclose and manage  
water risk.
Source low water risk commodity. 11% of overall European Union water 
use is for industrial purposes1, which includes metal manufacturing for 
Conagra’s steel cans.
Ghana Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.
Japan Low–Medium Annual evaluation of supplier efforts to track, disclose and manage  
water risk.
Malaysia Low Sourcing from low-risk regions and utilizing third-party sustainability 
certifications for palm oil.
South Korea Medium–High Annual evaluation of supplier efforts to track, disclose and manage  
water risk.
United States Low–Medium Annual evaluation of supplier efforts to track, disclose and manage  
water risk.
Uruguay Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.Supply Chain  
Water Risk
We monitor sourcing water risks through an annual 
assessment of priority materials and ingredients 
using the WRI Aqueduct global water risk mapping 
tool. Mitigation strategies for priority ingredients 
and materials include supplier water management 
assessments as part of our Supplier Excellence 
Program, and reducing our sourcing dependency 
on regions with persistent water stress. > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGSustainable  
Packaging 
Packaging serves a critical role in maintaining 
both food freshness and safety, but waste from 
plastic packaging is a growing issue. Conagra’s 
dedication to innovation extends into packaging 
and we are committed to nourishing the planet by 
reducing waste derived from packaging through 
thoughtful design and by using renewable and more 
readily recyclable or compostable materials.
In fiscal year 2021, we continued to make 
meaningful progress on our goal to make 
100% of our current plastic packaging 
renewable, recyclable or compostable by 2025 . 
Approximately 93% of Conagra’s packaging 
materials by volume1 currently meet our goal of 
being renewable, recyclable or compostable.
Avoiding Plastic 
In January 2020, we declared our intent to avoid the 
use of 33 million pounds of plastic through further 
development of plant-based packaging options and 
other packaging innovations as part of our 2025 
sustainable packaging journey. Since fiscal year 
2017, Conagra has avoided the use of more than 
23 million pounds of plastic packaging,with 11 
million pounds avoided in fiscal year 2021 alone.Conagra Joins US Plastics Pact 
Complimentary to our 2025 sustainable packaging 
target, Conagra is proud to have joined the U.S. Plastic 
Pact, a collaborative led by The Recycling Partnership 
and World Wildlife Fund (WWF), launched as part 
of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s global Plastics 
Pact network. The U.S. Plastics Pact is an ambitious 
initiative to unify diverse public-private stakeholders 
across the plastics value chain to rethink the way we 
design, use, and reuse plastics, to create a path toward 
a circular economy for plastic in the United States. In 
line with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s vision of a 
circular economy for plastic, which unites more than 
850 organizations and is underpinned by common 
definitions and concrete targets, the U.S. Plastics Pact 
brings together plastic packaging producers, brands, 
retailers, recyclers, waste management companies, 
policymakers, and other stakeholders to work 
collectively toward scalable solutions tailored to the 
unique needs and challenges within the U.S landscape, 
through vital knowledge sharing and coordinated action.
BY JOINING THE U.S. PLASTICS PACT, 
CONAGRA, COLLECTIVELY WITH INDUSTRY-
WIDE PARTNERS, IS HELPING THE 
INDUSTRY TO COLLECTIVELY DELIVER 
ON FOUR AMBITIOUS TARGETS:
1. Define a list of packaging to be designated 
as problematic or unnecessary by 2021 and 
take measures to eliminate them by 2025. 
2. By 2025, all plastic packaging is 100% 
reusable, recyclable, or compostable. 
3. By 2025, undertake ambitious actions 
to effectively recycle or compost 
50% of plastic packaging.
4. By 2025, the average recycled content or 
responsibly sourced bio-based content 
in plastic packaging will be 30%.In fiscal year 2021, 
approximately 93% of 
Conagra’s packaging 
materials by volume1 
currently meet 
our goal of being 
renewable, recyclable 
or compostable.
1  Estimates are based, in part, on industry-wide average weights and 
post-consumer recycled content levels, guided by best practices on 
environmental footprint accounting.
22
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
93%SPICY SOUTHWEST 
CHICK’N SANDWICHES 
Made with Gardein® 
Ultimate Plant-Based 
Chick’n Filets
Sustainable Packaging & Plant-Based Protein Centers of Excellence
 
At Conagra, innovation is at the center of all we do. 
In order to connect our consumers with products 
that are on trend and in demand, accelerate growth 
and improve responsible production practices, we’ve 
established sustainable packaging and plant-based 
protein Centers of Excellence. These Centers of 
Excellence consist of product development teams 
made up of scientists, packaging engineers, food 
designers and culinary professionals. They utilize 
cutting edge research and state-of-the-art capabilities 
to propel our sustainable packaging and plant-
based protein innovation. These initiatives help 
advance progress on our sustainable packaging 
and science-based climate change targets.
When designing packaging, we seek to make 
improvements our customers and consumers want 
from a performance and sustainability standpoint, 
while maintaining a rigorous focus on food safety. 
Our journey to make 100% of our current plastic 
packaging renewable, recyclable or compostable 
by 2025  includes designing packaging that both 
reduces its environmental impact and 
provides design solutions that are 
more practical and easier to use. 
For example, our Swiss Miss® 
eco-efficient recyclable cube  has a space-efficient tapered 
design, which brings more canisters 
in to our facility on fewer trucks, 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions 
during transport. We have also 
continued introducing packaging 
featuring bowls made from plant-
based fibers  in products across 
brands such as Healthy Choice, 
Hungry-Man® and P .F . Chang’s.® In 
other areas, such as e-commerce, 
we work across the supply chain to maximize 
packaging efficiencies and design home shipping 
solutions that reduce over-packaging. 
Today, many consumers are choosing foods to lessen 
their impact on the environment. Plant-based proteins 
are generally recognized as having a reduced carbon 
footprint and less water, land and energy impacts than 
meat-based proteins. As more consumers seek 
plant-based foods, we are expanding our portfolio  
with new offerings, including Gardein Ultimate 
Plant-Based Chick’n, available in 
filets, tenders and nuggets. 
To appeal to 
flexitarian, 
vegetarian and vegan consumers, our Birds Eye 
brand has developed new center-of-the 
plate meal options. By bringing 
traditional meat preparation techniques 
to vegetables, such as braising, baking 
and glazing, these plant-forward 
offerings are introducing new flavors 
and textures that nourish both 
consumers and our environment. 
We also understand that we cannot 
help solve some of the global food system’s most 
pressing challenges on our own. By forging strategic 
partnerships with global food innovation ecosystems 
like MISTA , we continue to make progress on building 
eco-friendly future food systems in collaboration with 
peers, suppliers, universities and startups. Through 
this partnership, Conagra is accelerating innovation 
in areas including plant-based, digital and nutrition. 
23
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGOperational Sustainability
Conagra Brands is committed to nourishing the planet. We focus our resources in key areas where it matters most across our value chain. Climate change, water resources 
and waste are the most material issues to us and, therefore, key areas of focus. Climate change affects agricultural industries throughout the world and is a fundamental 
challenge to food production. It is dramatically affecting how we source raw ingredients to make our food, and how we manage energy use in our facilities and across our 
value chain. Water resources are also essential throughout our value chain. From growing our raw ingredients to preparing and enjoying our food, all of us depend upon clean 
water every day. And, preventing waste—particularly food waste—is an important measure of our operating efficiency and an important social and environmental issue.
Sustainable Development  
Awards Program
Conagra Brands’ 
Sustainable Development 
Awards program  continues 
to be the cornerstone for 
engaging employees and 
recognizing their innovative 
ideas related to sustainable 
production and business 
practices. Employee 
teams submit projects for 
a chance to win grants for 
sustainability-focused public 
service projects in their communities. With more than 
200 entries, this was the 12th consecutive year for the 
program and awards were given in seven categories:
• Sustainable Brands
• Waste Reduction & Recycling
• Water Conservation 
• Climate Change & Energy Efficiency 
• Sustainable Operations
• People’s Choice Award
• Overall Award of Excellence
Award-winning facilities received a $5,000 grant from 
the Conagra Brands Foundation for sustainability-
focused public service projects  in their communities.
24
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > BETTER PLANET
 
SINCE 2009, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS HAVE:  
Conserved 3.6 billion  
gallons  of water
Decreased Conagra’s carbon 
footprint by 207,680 metric tons
Reduced waste by  
111,300 tons  
Decreased packaging materials  
by more than 32,000 tons  
Saved over $270 million  
Environmental Management 
Our global Environment, Occupational Health and Safety Philosophy , endorsed by President & CEO Sean Connolly, drives us towards continuous environment 
health and safety (EH&S) improvement, as measured by our leading environmental and safety indicators and implemented through our EH&S management 
approach. We are committed to complying with environmental laws and regulations and to protecting natural resources. We educate employees on five 
Conagra environmental and sustainability policy areas: Environmental, Compliance, Climate Change, Water Stewardship and Resource Conservation.
Through a robust Environmental Management System, we proactively manage environmental issues and share best practices among our 
facilities. We routinely assess compliance through internal environmental audits. When compliance issues arise, our team of environmental 
professionals works closely with the affected facility to educate and develop effective action plans and track findings to resolution.
Marie Callender’s®
production, at our
Council Bluffs,
Iowa facility
25
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > BETTER PLANET1,000,000
800,000
600,000
400,000
200,000
0
.300
.250
.200
.150
.100
.050
.0
Climate Change 
Climate change affects agricultural industries 
throughout the world and is a fundamental challenge 
to food production. It is dramatically affecting how we 
source raw ingredients to make our food, and how 
we manage energy use in our facilities and across 
our value chain. Conagra Brands’ 2030 science-
based climate change goals were validated by the 
Science Based Target initiative , an ambitious 
corporate climate effort leading the way to a zero-
carbon economy. Conagra has committed to reducing 
absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions 
by 25% by 2030 as compared to our fiscal year 
2020 baseline. In addition, we have committed to 
reducing Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions from 
purchased goods and services by 20% per metric 
tonne of material sourced within that same timeframe.1 
Our 2021 CDP Climate Change response  earned 
a B score, outperforming the B- average score 
in the food & beverage processing industry. Scope 1 & 2 Emissions
In fiscal year 2021, our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions (CO2e) were approximately 
829,443 metric tons, a decrease of approximately 
0.4% from our fiscal year 2020 emissions.
Scope 3 Emissions
Conagra has committed to reducing Scope 3 
greenhouse gas emissions from purchased goods and 
services by 20% per metric tonne of material sourced 
by 2030. In fiscal year 2021, our Scope 3 emissions 
decreased 9.8% per metric tonne of material sourced, 
almost halfway to our goal. Due to an increase in 
purchased goods, our absolute Scope 3 emissions rose 
247,660 tons, less than 3% from the previous fiscal year.
CONAGRA’S IN-SCOPE GREENHOUSE 
GAS EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED 
GOODS AND SERVICES
For full Scope 3 inventory data, please see  
our 2021 CDP Climate Change response
83.1% Ingredients
Meat - 53%  
Plant-Based - 36%  
Dairy - 1%  
Eggs - 1%  
Seafood & Other - 1%
12.5% Packaging
4.4% Other goods  
and services*
* Other purchased goods and services included spend on cleaning 
chemicals and sanitation services, co-manufacturing, purchased 
pallets, water and sewer services, and travel agency services.
1 The target boundary includes biogenic emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks
2  The FY20 data reflects the impacts of a divested facility and application of the United States EPA’s 
emission factors for calendar year 2020.
 26
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
(IN METRIC TONS)2
FY20
Scope 1: 411,872
Scope 2: 421,244
Total: 833,116
FY21
Scope 1: 427,153
Scope 2: 402,290
Total: 829,443
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PER 
POUND OF PRODUCT PRODUCED2
FY20 .245
FY21 .233FY20 FY21
FY20 FY21GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS BY SOURCE
48.5% Purchased electricity 
and steam
44.7% Natural gas
6.8% Other sources*
* Including other fuels, owned  
transportation and refrigerants> BETTER PLANET
LEADING THE WAY IN MEXICO 
In January 2022, Conagra Brands in Mexico 
was named one of the “50 Most Sustainable 
Companies”  in the country by Mundo Ejecutivo 
magazine, a leading business outlet in Mexico. 
The Conagra team was recognized for leadership 
in corporate governance, sustainability and 
environmentally-friendly best practices.Energy Use & Efficiency 
For many of our manufacturing facilities, we conduct 
energy efficiency audits on key utility-consuming 
equipment and processes to identify improvement 
opportunities and reduce energy use. Our energy 
efficiency program focuses on natural gas and electricity 
use at our owned and operated manufacturing facilities 
and warehouses; natural gas and electricity use 
makes up 93% of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 
Our cross-functional steering committee of Engineering, 
Procurement, and Environmental, Health & Safety 
teams investigates renewable energy investments 
and workstreams around reducing energy usage. We 
also track energy usage at the facility level monthly 
and provide regular reports to management.
In fiscal year 2021, 2% of our total energy consumed 
came from renewable sources. Our Science 
Based Target will push us to find new solutions to 
address our overall energy usage and efficiency.
For additional Energy Management metrics 
please refer to our SASB disclosure. 
1  The FY20 data reflects the impacts of a 
divested facility and data verification related  
to natural gas usage.
2  The FY20 data reflects the impacts of a 
divested facility.
 27
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
Natural Gas Use1 (in mmBTU)
FY20 6,692,835
FY21 6,968,677Electricity Use2 (in kWh)
FY20 871,684,282
FY21 911,329,649> BETTER PLANET
1,000,000,000
800,000,000
600,000,000
400,000,000
200,000,000
08,000,000
6,000,000
4,000,000
2,000,000
0
FY20 FY21 FY20 FY21
SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT  
AWARDS 
 
At our Menomonie, Wis. facility, the team 
developed a comprehensive air and steam leak 
detection program that allows the site to manage 
these leaks while equipment is running. The 
new program saved 366,800 kilowatt-hours of 
electricity and 208 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
Water Risk by Conagra Manufacturing 
Location and Percent of Total Water Use
Our water risk is analyzed using the WRI’s Aqueduct tool, which uses peer 
reviewed methods and the best-available data to map water risk globally. WRI 
water risk levels are determined using 12 different indicators including flood 
occurrence, access to water supplies, ecosystem impacts and other metrics.
LOW RISK 
22 LOCATIONS  
51.9% OF WATER USE
• Archbold, Ohio
• Boisbriand, Qué.
• Centralia, Ill.
• Council Bluffs, Iowa
• Dickson, Tenn.
• Dresden, Ont.
• Fayetteville, Ark.
• Fennville, Mich.
• Fort Madison, Iowa
• Imlay City, Mich.
• Lake View, Iowa 
• Lincoln, Neb.
• Louisville, Ky.
• Macomb, Ill.
• Macon, Mo.
• Mankato, Minn.
• Maple Grove, Minn.
• Milton, Pa.
• Quincy, Mass.
• Richmond, B.C. 
• Russellville, Ark.
• St. Elmo, Ill.LOW–MEDIUM RISK
16 LOCATIONS  
32.5% OF WATER USE
• Beaver Dam, Wis.
• Darien, Wis.
• Hagerstown, Md.
• Hamburg, Iowa
• Humboldt, Tenn.
• Indianapolis Bakery, Ind.
• Indianapolis, Ind.
• Jackson, Tenn.
• Kent, Wash. 
• Marshall, Mo.
• Menomonie, Wis.
• Milwaukee, Wis.
• Newport, Tenn.
• Reno, Nev.
• Waseca, Minn.
• Waterloo, IowaMED–HIGH RISK 
5 LOCATIONS,  
1% OF WATER USE
• Aurora, Colo.
• Brookston, Ind.
• Denver, Colo. 
• Rensselaer, Ind.
• Troy, Ohio
HIGH RISK
2 LOCATIONS,  
14.6% OF WATER USE
• Irapuato, Mex.
• Oakdale, Calif.Water Withdrawal Source  
& Wastewater Discharge Destination
WATER SOURCE
• 63%  Public supply 
• 34%  Well water
• 3%  Surface waterWATER DISCHARGE
• 54%  Publicly owned 
treatment facility
• 31%  Direct
• 15%  Land/irrigationWater Use & Water Quality 
Conagra Brands’ commitment to a better planet includes actively addressing water 
risk. Our water resource strategy guides how we actively manage water resources 
across our value chain, taking into account both water use and water quality. Nearly 
85% of our operational water comes from areas on the lower end of the World 
Resources Institute (WRI) water risk spectrum. 
Conagra Brands has responded to the CDP Water Questionnaire since its inception. 
Our 2021 CDP Water response  earned a Leadership A- for implementing current best 
practices on water, outperforming the B average score in the food & beverage 
processing industry.
28
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > BETTER PLANET
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AWARDS 
 
Our team in Macon, Mo. implemented a number of projects including developing 
a method of cleaning belts using less water, lowering pressure in the automated 
sanitation pressure control system and developing more efficient ways to clean and 
sanitize equipment.  The team’s efforts resulted in an estimated 9,900,000 gallons 
of water saved—about 9% of the site’s total water use.We are working at these high-risk water facilities to reduce water  
usage through capital investment projects and focused behavioral 
improvements. Both sites have set annual water goals, which have led  
to saving tens of millions of gallons every year. In fiscal year 2021, our 
Irapuato facility achieved a 5% water intensity reduction, and our  
Oakdale facility achieved a 3% absolute water reduction.
Eliminating Waste
We are working systematically and strategically to 
reduce the amount of waste we generate in our 
facilities to capture the maximum value of the raw 
ingredients and other materials we buy. For unavoidable 
waste, we work hard to keep it out of landfills. 
For each of our facilities, the sustainability team 
within EH&S tracks landfill and material diversion data 
monthly, using more than 15 descriptive categories. 
With this detailed waste characterization, our teams 
have insight into where the biggest opportunities exist 
to derive maximum use out of our material resources. 
In fiscal year 2021, 87% of the solid waste generated 
at all Conagra’s facilities was diverted to more 
beneficial uses through recycling, product donations 
to bolster food supplies at area food banks, use as 
animal feed, energy generation, or land applications 
to improve soil quality. In celebrating America 
Recycles Day on November 15, 2021 Conagra 
honored 10 Zero Waste manufacturing facilities  
for diverting more than 95% of waste materials from 
landfills through proper waste separation, recycling 
and other innovative waste reduction measures. 
This year’s honorees include frozen, snacks, 
international and grocery manufacturing facilities.1
SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT  
AWARDS 
 
At Conagra’s Vlasic pickle  
facility in Imlay City, Mich. the team 
eliminated 300 tons of waste  by addressing 
glass jar losses through enhanced process 
settings, reducing bottle breakage by 35%.
1 Includes all Conagra Brands company-owned manufacturing facilities
29
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
Waste Generation per Pound 
of Food Produced (in pounds)
FY20 0.109
FY21 0.126
Total Waste Generation and 
percent of Waste Diverted 
from Landfill (in U.S. tons)
FY20 415,902 84% of waste diverted
FY21 495,927 87% of waste divertedFY21 Waste Characterization
87% Materials diverted from landfill
13% Landfill
83.6% organic materials diverted 
from landfill
38.5% Food - Animal Feed
25.4% Wastewater Sludge
6.7% Cardboard
4.2% Food - Composting
3.9% Wood (Pallets)
2.8% Mixed Organics
0.6% Mixed Paper
0.8% Food - Oil/Grease
0.3% Food - Donation
0.5% Food - Energy Recovery
3.4% inorganic materials 
diverted from landfill
1.1% Mixed Recyclables
0.6% Mixed Metals
1.4% Mixed Plastics
0.4% Waste-to-Energy
0.0% Aluminum
> BETTER PLANET
.140
.120
.100
.080
.060
.040
.020
.000
FY20 FY21
FY20
WASTE DIVERTEDWASTE DIVERTED
FY21600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
0Corporate Ethics
Code of Conduct
The Conagra Brands Code of Conduct  provides 
guideposts for how our employees and directors must 
conduct themselves when representing Conagra both 
inside and outside the workplace. All new employees 
are required to take a course on our Code of Conduct 
as part of their onboarding process. We conduct annual 
training courses to ensure that employees are aware of 
our expectations and their obligations under the Code 
of Conduct. We also expect contractors, consultants, 
trainees, temps/agency workers, interns and volunteers 
to follow our Code of Conduct. Other service providers 
and suppliers must act ethically and consistent with our 
Code of Conduct and other contract requirements.
Our board of directors has approved our Code of 
Conduct. The overall administration of our Code of 
Conduct is handled by our Legal and Government 
Affairs department. The day-to-day administration of our 
Code of Conduct is managed by our local management 
teams. Matters relating to our Code of Conduct are 
routinely reported to the Audit/Finance Committee, 
which oversees the Code at the highest level. In 
addition, we require that our chief executive officer, chief 
financial officer, and controller comply with a separate 
Code of Ethics for Senior Corporate Officers .Ethical Employment Practices
Conagra prohibits the use of any forced or compulsory 
labor, including human trafficking and slavery, in all of 
our operations. Any work performed by an employee 
or other individual that is involuntary and/or performed 
under the threat of physical harm or other penalty 
is strictly prohibited. We also comply with state and 
federal child labor laws through our hiring policies 
and human resources practices. Our standard entry-
level wage is equal to—and often exceeds—the local 
minimum wage in locales in which we operate.
To the extent any employee objects to his or her terms 
and/or conditions of employment or sees anything else 
of concern, he or she may raise a complaint to his or her manager, a member of the Legal and Government 
Affairs department, and/or through our third-party 
ethics hotline 866.567.CODE (2633), which enables 
anonymous reporting. Conagra Brands takes seriously 
all reports made through our ethics hotline and ensures 
that all are investigated properly. We have a strict non-
retaliation policy for all good faith reports made through 
all reporting channels, including our ethics hotline.
30
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES31
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Employee Health & Safety
As we strive to achieve an injury-free workplace, 
we are focused on maintaining a strong culture 
of safety, in which all employees commit to 
protecting themselves and their colleagues. 
Our health and safety team audits each of our facilities 
every two years to ensure compliance with safety 
regulations and corporate policies. The team 
documents the audit results and tracks corrective actions to ensure we hold ourselves accountable for 
providing a safe work environment. As follow-up to any 
workplace injury or illness (an “incident”) or near miss, 
we require a thorough investigation to identify and 
address the root cause.
During fiscal year 2021, our Occupational Safety 
& Health Administration (OSHA) Incident Rate 
(OIR) was 2.00 incidents per 100 full-time workers, which is below the industry average of 5.101 for 
companies in the food manufacturing sector. In 
fiscal year 2021, OSHA inspected eight Conagra 
Brands facilities, decreasing the number of 
inspections by two from the previous fiscal year.
1 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, as reported by the  
U.S. Department of Labor for 2018
ACT II,® Angie’s BOOMCHICKAPOP,® 
and Orville Redenbacher® 
are produced at our
Rensselaer, Indiana facility32
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Food Safety Culture
At Conagra, we are continuously working to 
improve our food safety culture. Food safety is 
everyone’s responsibility – from the recruiting 
process through each step of our employees’ 
careers, we strive to promote a food safety culture 
within the entire organization and beyond.
Resources 
Conagra has invested in employee technical expertise, 
analytical and microbiological labs, and third-party 
reviews that enhance our scientific and technical 
capabilities to drive continuous improvement. We 
understand the importance of remaining current on the 
latest industry intelligence including market incidents, 
changes to food safety legislation, significant new 
technology and analytical advances. This diligent 
monitoring increases our awareness and understanding 
of potential risks and enriches our food safety culture.
Documentation, Communication 
and Performance Metrics 
Our leaders operate with the growth and well-being of 
employees and their communities top of mind, while 
providing quality and food safety support to all our 
facilities. Our policies and procedures establish the 
direction and expectations for food safety. Food safety 
documentation enables suitable, consistent decision-
making. It includes data (e.g., product, process and 
training records) and information about food safety 
expectations, plans and operational procedures 
and helps to verify compliance and consistency. Communication also plays an important role in 
our food safety culture and it is delivered through 
many different channels such as: ongoing training, 
metrics reviews, sharing best practices through shift 
huddles and regular team meetings, and more.
METRICS BY WHICH WE 
MEASURE AND VALIDATE 
OUR FOOD SAFETY EFFORTS, 
INCLUDING AS TO CULTURE:
• Internal, external (including the Global 
Food Safety Initiative and Food Safety 
Council), Customer and third-party audits
• Periodic employee surveys, 
including at the plant level
• Consumer feedback
• Root cause investigations performed 
by cross-functional teams
• Quality incident and training 
KPI’s and analysis
• Behavioral observations
• Employee coaching and mentoring
We strive to promote a food safety culture within our 
entire organization in an environment where people are 
empowered to impact, improve and sustain food safety. Diversity & Inclusion
At Conagra, we nourish an inclusive culture that 
encourages openness, acceptance and individual 
authenticity. Diversity is more than race, gender, 
sexual orientation and disability. All backgrounds, 
perspectives, styles and opinions are valued and 
belong here. We harness the power of diversity and 
inclusion to accelerate innovation and growth.
Curiosity and diverse perspectives are how innovation 
begins. So, we seek out and welcome people who 
think differently. At Conagra, people can bring 
their true selves to work, feel valued and join an 
energetic exchange of ideas. When employees 
experience inclusion, we all perform better.
As our business has evolved, so has our culture.  
We continually find new ways of nurturing our 
employees’ lives, both at work and in our communities. 
We strive to have the most impactful, energized and 
inclusive culture in food, rooted in our Timeless 
Values  and translated into day-to-day actions by our 
five inclusive behaviors of genuine listening, civility, 
mutual respect, healthy debate and compromise.
Conagra’s comprehensive diversity and inclusion 
strategy has helped us increase the representation  
of people of color and women in our workforce.  
For new hires in fiscal year 2021:  
• We doubled the number of people of color 
hired in middle-manager level roles.
• At the management level, the number of newly 
employed people of color increased by 6%.Our Five Inclusive Behaviors
GENUINE LISTENING
We make a conscious effort to learn 
new things by listening to what others 
have to say and seeking to understand 
how others think and feel. Although 
we may not always agree, we respect 
each other and acknowledge the 
power of different points of view. 
HEALTHY DEBATE
We actively encourage new ideas and 
ask questions to challenge the status 
quo. We accept that sometimes, the best 
results evolve from rigorous debate, a 
bit of tension and a bit of discomfort. 
COMPROMISE
We stay focused on our goals and are 
collectively decisive once the input 
has been heard and considered.MUTUAL RESPECT
We cultivate a workplace where people 
trust and respect one another, where no 
one feels they need to bend out of shape 
to fit in. We always assume positive 
intent and recognize that individuals 
have valuable contributions to make.
CIVILITY
We disagree without disrespect. We seek 
common ground as a starting point for 
dialogue about differences, listening past 
one’s preconceptions, and teaching 
others to do the same.
Our 2025 Goals
At least 40% of 
management-level 
roles held by  
womenDouble people of 
color representation 
in management and 
middle-manager 
level roles versus 
our fiscal year 
2020 baseline
33
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Employee by  
Race and Ethnicity
56% White
23% Hispanic or Latino
12% Black or  
African American
5%Asian
1%Native Hawaiian or  
Other Pacific Islander
<1% American Indian or  
Alaska Native 
<1% Two or More Races
2%Undeclared
FY21 Progress  
Increased representation of people of color  
in our workforce: +3%Employee by  
Generation
38% Generation X  
(1965-1980)
33% Millennials  
(1981-1996)
22% Baby Boomers  
(1946-1964)
6%Generation Z  
(1997 and onwards)
<1% Silent Generation 
(1928-1945)Employee by Gender
59% Male
40% Female
<1% Undeclared
Leadership Representation  
by Gender
Management Level
67% Male
33% Female
Middle-Manager Level
57% Male
43% Female
FY21 Progress  
Increased women in Management level roles: 
+1% and Middle-Management level roles: +2%Leadership Representation  
by Race and Ethnicity
Management Level
85% White
13% People of color
<2% Undeclared
Middle-Manager Level
86% White
13% People of color
1% Undeclared
FY21 Progress   
Increased representation of people of 
color in Management roles: +1% and 
Middle-Management roles: +1%Board Representation  
(as of March 2022) 
By Gender
69% Male
31% Female
By Race and Ethnicity
69% White
31% People of colorData for Employee by Gender, Employee by Generation, 
and Leadership Representation by Gender represents 
all Conagra Brands employees. Data for Employee 
by Ethnicity and Leadership Representation by 
Ethnicity represents U.S.-based employees only.
34
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Diversity and Inclusion 
Governance Structure
At Conagra, we have instituted a systematic, 
business-led approach to diversity and inclusion that 
is executed through accountability, resourcing and 
business direction. Our D&I Leadership Council is 
comprised of our Senior Leadership and HR, Diversity 
& Inclusion teams. The Council drives accountability 
and execution of our commitments while measuring 
and assessing our performance. The Council meets 
quarterly to evaluate progress and collaborate with our 
three D&I Task Forces, who are represented by diverse 
talent across all employee levels and responsible for 
developing multi-year strategies to nurture belonging.
How We Live Up to Our Commitments
Our multi-year diversity and inclusion strategy supports 
three key drivers of representation and retention: 
recruitment, advocacy and development of talent. 
In each of these areas, we have multiple strategic 
initiatives in place to advance our culture of belonging.
RECRUITMENT
We engage with diverse talent, from new grads 
to seasoned professionals. Our message: 
Conagra welcomes the unique experiences 
as building blocks for our diverse culture.
• Early Talent and Experienced Hires:  Our campus 
recruitment strategy and holistic recruitment 
framework help diversify our talent pipeline and 
increase workforce diversity for early talent and 
experienced hires. By partnering with organizations 
whose primary focus is providing opportunities 
for candidates from many dimensions of diversity, 
we aim to create more equitable outcomes 
during our recruitment and hiring process. 
ADVOCACY
In an effort to create community connections, as 
well as strengthen and sustain relationships with 
individuals from underrepresented backgrounds, 
we partner with community and social justice 
organizations, fund scholarships, invest in diverse 
suppliers and build awareness among employees.
• Talent Advocacy:  Since May 2021, more than 45 
professionals of color at Conagra have engaged 
in a development program that pairs them with 
external coaches who help enhance their leadership 
capabilities. To date, nearly 50 Conagra leaders of 
color have engaged in our partner programs through 
the McKinsey Connected Leaders Academy, whose 
mission is to advance racial equity by investing 
in future leaders. In addition, we launched an 
internal mentoring program for employees of all 
backgrounds to advance their career progression and 
connection with our senior leaders. As of January 
2022, more than 45 completed this program. 
• Scholarships:  To support Black and Brown students, 
we have formed partnerships with the Thurgood 
Marshall College Fund , the nation’s largest 
organization exclusively representing the Black 
college community, and the Hispanic Scholar Fund, 
one of the nation’s leading nonprofit organizations 
supporting higher education. These partnerships 
will help ensure students receive equitable access 
to quality higher education opportunities and 
reinforce Conagra’s commitment to supporting the 
communities where our employees live and work. 
Conagra has made donations to each organization to 
fund several college scholarships. But this initiative 
is about more than money. Resources are also 
provided to each institution to support scholarship 
recipients as they navigate internships and other services that prepare them for their future careers. In 
addition, Conagra employees actively engage with 
scholarship recipients to provide unique professional 
development opportunities that strengthen career 
prospects for students’ post-college, including 
resume building assistance, job interview preparation 
and additional workplace readiness experiences.
35
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Equitable Advancement  
at a Glance — FY21  
U.S. Salaried Workers  
Total Promotions
444
The average promotion 
rate, over the last 12 periods, 
for salaried Conagra 
employees that identify 
as a person of color.
35%
Promotion Rate  
by Gender
53% Male
47% FemaleDEVELOPMENT
From onboarding and compensation to development 
and career advancement, our processes are 
designed to drive equitable outcomes, support 
employees across various dimensions of diversity, 
and strengthen our inclusive culture. To achieve our 
strategic objectives within development, several 
functional areas within Conagra developed their own 
operational plans aligned to our enterprise strategy. 
ONBOARDING AND CULTURE
Inclusive behaviors were introduced in 2021 and 
provide employees with a common framework 
for fostering unity and effectively working 
across differences. The inclusive behaviors 
are genuine listening, mutual respect, civility, 
compromise and healthy debate. We will debut 
development experiences for employees in 
fiscal year 2022 that build skills, reinforce 
and celebrate these critical behaviors. 
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
People managers within Conagra have been  
assigned training focused on building their  
knowledge of Diversity & Inclusion concepts 
that are central to leading successful 
teams. As of January 20t, 2022:
• 97% of managers within Conagra have  
completed the “Reflect on Inclusive 
Leadership Practices” course
• 92% of managers within Conagra  
have completed our “Dimensions of  
Diversity” courseCUSTOMER LEADERSHIP
Our Sales organization transitioned to a centralized 
support model to better meet our customer 
needs as well as improve our overall efficiency 
and effectiveness. This change created an 
opportunity to expand the sales organization 
by 18%. Within this pool of new hires, 45% 
were people of color and 47% were women.
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT
Conagra’s R&D team has formed a committee, 
comprised of 20 employees across various levels 
and sub-functions, dedicated to Diversity & Inclusion. 
In November, they hosted “Be the Change,” an 
R&D employee event that provided everyone 
with a deeper understanding of Conagra’s D&I 
progress, focus areas and functional strategies. 
EQUITABLE ADVANCEMENT
Pay equity, regardless of gender or ethnicity, is a core 
part of our D&I Strategy. Our compensation structure 
and benefits package enable us to recruit and retain 
talent within the context of an individual’s background, 
experience and performance. We recognize that pay 
equity is critical to our company’s success in these 
areas. We therefore have invested in pay equity 
technology solutions to analyze pay for employees, and 
evolve our compensation practices where appropriate.
DEVELOPMENT
36
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIESEmployee  
Resource Groups
Our seven Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) have 
contributed to building a diverse and inclusive culture 
within Conagra. They provide a place for employees’ 
voices to be amplified, and where employees can 
learn from each other on cultural and business topics. 
Our ERGs support personal and professional growth 
and community impact. Each ERG develops yearly 
operational plans that help drive Conagra’s D&I strategy 
through activities such as employee mentorship, 
community service projects and educational events 
aimed at advancing our inclusive culture and fostering 
professional development. In fiscal year 2021, our ERGs 
hosted more than 150 meaningful events throughout 
the year, including collaborating on a storytelling series 
on unconscious bias, bystander education training, 
while uplifting their communities through back-to-
school drives and food pantry volunteering, and more.
37
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Asian Employee Resource Group Veterans Employee Resource Group
Black Employee Resource Group Women’s Employee Resource Group
Latinx Employee Resource Group Young Professionals Employee Resource Group LGBTQ + Ally Employee Resource GroupCommunity Engagement
To have greater impact, we need to look beyond 
Conagra. Our business partners play a vital 
role in helping us support underrepresented 
communities through internship and mentoring 
opportunities, financial contributions and 
volunteerism. Here are a few examples:
United for Change  
Conagra conducts an annual employee fundraising 
campaign called United For Change . The 
campaign is designed to increase employees’ 
understanding of the root causes of poverty while 
also prioritizing issues of racial and social justice. 
The campaign firmly engages our longtime partner, 
United Way  but in fiscal 2021 also included the 
ACLU Foundation  and Human Rights Watch . 
Throughout the 2021 campaign, more than 
2,260 employees from 36 facility and office 
locations across the United States, Mexico 
and Canada raised more than $520,000 to help 
these organizations provide essential community 
programs that support financial stability, alleviate 
root causes of poverty, protect human rights 
and advance civil liberties for our neighbors. Social Works  
Since 2017, Conagra has supported SocialWorks  
—a non-profit founded by Chance the Rapper 
to empower youth through the arts, education 
and civic engagement while providing essential 
funds to strengthen curriculum, provide support 
materials and create enrichment opportunities 
for students in Chicago. Through a unique 
collaboration, this year Conagra commissioned 
the organization’s community of young, creative 
talent to make original music for videos used 
across our company’s social media channels.
Inclusive Marketing
We believe in promoting our brands in a way that 
reflects the needs and attitudes of our diverse 
consumers. We incorporate inclusivity throughout 
our comprehensive marketing efforts to better reflect 
the experiences of culturally diverse communities. 
On Ready Set Eat , Conagra’s website for culinary 
inspiration, trends and recipes, our ERGs collaborate 
with our culinary team to offer consumers culturally-
relevant recipes that represent their unique 
backgrounds. Across our brands’ social media 
channels, content 
is fueled by diverse 
food cultures, 
content makers 
and ongoing 
engagement with 
underrepresented 
communities. Supplier Diversity 
We enhance the value we bring to our customers, 
consumers and communities through partnerships with 
a broad range of diverse suppliers who are ready to 
innovate and grow with us, including, but not limited 
to, minority-owned, women-owned, veteran- and 
service-disabled veteran-owned, and gay- and lesbian-
owned businesses. Conagra also extends procurement 
opportunities to small, disadvantaged and HUBZone 
businesses. During fiscal year 2021, we spent more 
than $420 million with over 900 certified diverse 
suppliers. In addition, Conagra is a member of the 
Women’s Business Enterprise National Council  and 
the Mountain Plains Minority Supplier Development 
Council , which help provide diverse suppliers with 
equal access to procurement opportunities. 
Funding Research 
The Conagra Brands Foundation has provided funding 
to the Williams Institute , based at the UCLA School 
of Law, which studies issues relevant to LGBTQ+ 
populations. Their report issued in December of 
2021 , and funded in part by the Conagra Brands 
Foundation, found that the COVID-19 pandemic 
has had a disproportionate economic impact on 
transgender people, who are three times more likely 
than cisgender people to face food insufficiency 
during the pandemic. By helping fund this research, 
we aim to bring awareness to challenges in access 
to food for this highly-marginalized population.
38
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
SocialWorks
@realduncanhines
2021 Recognition  
& Honors
We are honored to be recognized for advancing 
diversity and inclusion at Conagra Brands. 
As we continue to make progress on building a more 
equitable and inclusive workforce, our commitments 
to recruiting, advocating for and developing diverse 
talent remain rooted in improving our employee 
experience. Ensuring our employees are heard, 
learning from our challenges and celebrating our 
accomplishments will help us address long-standing 
disparities and grow our culture of belonging.
Canadian Grocer Magazine
Recognized as a top CPG business making a 
positive impact on diversity, equity and inclusion.The Civic 50
For the third consecutive year, we were 
recognized as one of the 50 most community-
minded companies in the U.S. 
The Human Rights Campaign’s 
Corporate Equality Index
For the seventh consecutive year, we 
received a perfect score of 100%.Latina Style Magazine
Named as one of the 50 Best Companies 
for Latinas to Work for in the U.S.
Latino Leaders Magazine
Recognized as one of the best companies for Latinos.
39
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Community Investment and Foundation
Conagra Brands takes a comprehensive approach  
to its community investment activities and harnesses  
our collective resources including cash contributions, 
product donations and employee volunteerism to 
support the communities where we do business.  
The vast majority of our efforts focus on impacting  
the pervasive societal issue of food insecurity, which 
according to Feeding America’s  “Map the Meal Gap” 
study, impacts people living in every county of  
the United States. 
For the third consecutive year,  
Conagra has been named 
an honoree of The Civic 50, 
which recognizes the 50 most 
community-minded companies in 
the nation . An initiative by Points of 
Light, the world’s largest organization 
dedicated to volunteer service, The 
Civic 50 provides a national standard for superior 
corporate citizenship and showcases how companies 
can use their time, skills and resources to impact their 
communities.  
Through partnerships with hundreds of dedicated 
nonprofit partners across the country we support 
programs that provide people of all ages with direct 
access to food and additional supportive services for 
themselves and their families including Food Access, 
Healthy Cooking, Nutrition Education, Healthy and 
Active Lifestyles, and Urban Agriculture.• Food Access:  Ensuring that people have 
access to healthy, nutritious foods on a 
dependable basis, whether at food pantries, 
mobile pop-ups, congregate meal sites, or more.
• Healthy Cooking:  Introducing people 
to new recipes or innovative cooking 
methods to help them get excited about 
preparing wholesome flavorful meals. 
• Nutrition Education:  Teaching people 
to make healthy choices when planning, 
shopping, cooking, and dining out. 
• Healthy and Active Lifestyles:  Encouraging 
people to enjoy the activities and foods 
that help fuel busy modern lives.
• Urban Agriculture:  Increasing access to 
fresh produce grown locally in communities 
often viewed as food deserts, to spark 
interest in healthy, farm-to-fork eating.This report highlights some of the key initiatives 
and nonprofit partners we supported to ensure 
that the communities where we do business have 
continued access to healthy and nutritious food.
Heartland Alliance
Chicago Farmworks
40
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Conagra Brands Total Giving FY2021
Total giving cash and in-kind  
corporate and Foundation Total giving employees Grants awarded Volunteer hours
$32,827,153 $717,279 933 6,697
Conagra Volunteers at 
Completely Kids, Omaha, Neb.
41
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORT
CONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIESFeeding America
Feeding America is Conagra’s national partner 
in addressing the issue of food insecurity in the 
communities where our employees live and work. 
Conagra Brands Foundation  has supported a unique 
combination of efforts including: national research that 
increases our collective understanding of the issue 
of hunger and its impact on vulnerable populations 
and diverse communities; direct services that improve 
access to nutritious and culturally relevant food, 
capacity-building efforts that increase front-line hunger 
relief agencies efforts to better serve the community 
and, national awareness building campaigns that 
help to educate the public and our leaders about 
the issue of food insecurity in our communities. 
Conagra also provides significant product donations 
that are distributed to Feeding America’s network of 
200 food banks and Conagra employees regularly 
volunteer at the food banks and partner agencies 
serving the communities where they live.
In fiscal year 2021,  
the Foundation funded 
Feeding America’s 
“Map the Meal Gap” 
study , which looked 
at the cost of food 
insecurity across the 
United States. This critical study found that 10.9% 
of the population is food insecure, with an annual 
food budget shortfall of $18.8 billion. These results 
represent a staggering amount of need and Conagra 
Brands is committed to helping combat food insecurity 
in the communities our employees call home. This year, Conagra Brands Foundation made 
capacity-building grants to 29 Feeding America 
food banks that serve the communities where 
a Conagra facility is present. Conagra Brands 
Foundation also supported Feeding America’s 
inaugural effort to host an Equity Visiting Scholar 
who will provide thought leadership and research 
to address equity in the charitable food sector.
Each September, Conagra partners with  
Feeding America on its nationwide Hunger Action 
Month campaign, which is designed to mobilize 
the public to act on the issue of hunger. In our 
offices, we encouraged our employees to take 
individual steps to impact hunger and food 
insecurity by volunteering at a hunger relief agency, 
writing inspirational notes for Meals on Wheels 
recipients and raising awareness about the issue 
of food insecurity with their friends and families. 
In fiscal year 2021,  
we donated more  
than 22.8 million  
pounds of food  to  
Feeding America and  
its network of food banks, 
which is the equivalent 
of 19 million meals.Select highlights from 
the recently completed 
capacity grants include:  
NORTHWEST ARKANSAS 
FOOD BANK
Bethel Heights, Ark.
The food bank increased its reach to 
rural areas through the expansion of 
permanent mobile pantry sites and 
pop-up pantries, utilizing contactless 
methods of food distribution.
 
CHANNEL ONE FOOD BANK
Rochester, Minn.
This grant helped the food bank 
transition from distributing drive-up 
emergency food boxes to a client-
choice model food shelf. Now the 
food bank can conduct culturally and 
linguistically competent outreach to 
better serve Latinx, Somali, Arabic, 
East African and southeast Asian 
families who initially joined the 
community as refugees or immigrants.
FOOD FINDERS FOOD BANK
Lafayette, Ind.
Funding from Conagra underwrote the 
purchase of “foods to encourage” for 
the Fresh Market and provided steady 
flow of hard-to-come by produce, 
which provided a protein to its clients. 
Overall, 5,831 additional clients 
were served, 192,862 incremental 
pounds served, and there was a 72% 
increase in nutritious foods served.
42
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
NOURISH OUR  
COMMUNITY
For more than 25 years, 
Conagra has invited 
employees to nominate 
nonprofit organizations in 
their local communities to be 
considered for grants in areas addressing domestic 
hunger and food insecurity, cooking skills, nutrition 
education, healthy and active lifestyles or urban 
agriculture. Conagra employees also play a part in 
the selection process with grants being awarded 
by a cross-functional committee of employees. 
Examples of this year’s grant recipients include 
organizations distributing healthy food to children, 
seniors, veterans, and homeless populations, 
providing critical infrastructure upgrades in food 
pantries, and supporting nutrition education 
opportunities for underserved communities.
In the fall of 2020, we awarded 22 grants totaling 
$350,000  to highly regarded and well-established 
nonprofits to help create positive social impact in the 
communities where our employees live and work.
SHINE THE LIGHT ON HUNGER
The annual Shine the Light on Hunger 
campaign is a community-wide call 
to action, advocacy and education 
that raises awareness and funds 
to support food access programs 
in Nebraska and Western Iowa. 
Conagra has been a proud leader of 
this project for 14 years. This year, our 
goal was to raise the equivalent of over 1.5 
million meals for Food Bank for the Heartland, a leader 
in the fight against hunger and food insecurity in the 
region. Achieving a goal of this magnitude requires 
the support of the larger community, and we worked 
to engage a broad coalition of local partners including the Omaha mayor’s office, Baker’s Supermarkets, and 
arts and cultural institutions to engage everyone in 
the campaign. Conagra employees and community 
members rallied together to raise the equivalent of 
more than 6 million meals, a truly incredible testament 
to the Omaha community’s commitment to taking 
care of each other. The Conagra Brands Foundation 
continued its annual commitment to match these 
donations dollar-for-dollar up to $100,000. Conagra’s 
culinary team also stepped up to help support their 
neighbors in need as part of our shelter meal service 
day, which has become a treasured annual tradition. 
This year, our culinary team personally planned, 
shopped, prepared, cooked and delivered more than 
1,500 hearty dinners to six local shelters serving 
children, families, veterans, and other individuals.
THE HATCHERY: BEHIND THE GLASS DOOR: 
SUCCEEDING IN THE FREEZER AISLE
Conagra leaders are always 
willing and available to share 
their expertise and were 
thrilled to partner with the 
team at The Hatchery, a 
Chicago-based nonprofit 
food and beverage business 
incubator, to help many 
emerging food entrepreneurs 
gain a more thorough 
understanding of the frozen food space.
A focused series of three virtual conversations 
were held to provide local entrepreneurs insight on 
how big brands think about innovation and were 
led by three of Conagra’s exceptional leaders:
• Sowmia S., Demand Science Director
• Erica B., R&D Director Snacks & Baking
• Christie C., Vice President & General 
Manger Refrigerated & FrozenThis series covered how Conagra thinks about 
identifying and solving for latent demand, 
product design implications, and distribution 
and marketing activities to drive mental 
and physical availability. It also provided an 
opportunity to connect with entrepreneurs and 
share knowledge that could significantly help 
a young business succeed and prevent loss of 
valuable time by eliminating costly mistakes.
EMPLOYEE GIVING
Our employees are always very generous with their 
time and talents and consistently volunteer throughout 
the year for causes that are near and dear to their 
hearts. Given the enthusiasm to volunteer in person at 
front line hunger relief organization throughout some 
of the most challenging months of the COVID-19 
pandemic, we emphasized the importance of following 
all public health recommendations to ensure a safe 
volunteer experience for our employees, the staff 
at the nonprofits, and the community members 
accessing programs and services. Throughout FY21, 
Conagra employees contributed 6,697 volunteer 
hours of service with nonprofit agencies that 
serve the communities where we do business.
43
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Month of Service
Every April, Conagra’s Month of Service provides an 
opportunity for employees to give back and make 
a difference in their own backyards. This year’s 
efforts were more important and complex than 
ever before, as the COVID-19 pandemic required 
additional levels of communication to ensure 
employees were following all CDC health guidelines, 
local government recommendations as well as 
requirements at the various nonprofit agencies.
Early in our planning, we decided to increase the 
duration of Month of Service and extend it over the 
months of April and May so that we could encourage 
as many employees as possible to participate in 
smaller, socially distanced, group volunteer efforts. 
Conagra employees enthusiastically responded to the 
call-to-action and immediately began to reach out to 
various nonprofits to schedule service projects that 
impact hunger, nutrition, food insecurity, and access 
to healthy food. Projects included repacking fresh 
fruits and vegetables and much needed protein at food 
banks, helping plant and maintain urban gardens, and 
more. In total, our activities generated the equivalent 
of 481,224 meals for people facing food insecurity 
across the United States, Canada and Mexico.Month of Service  
At a Glance  
Projects
121
Volunteer Hours Completed
3,754
Volunteers Participated
1,485
lbs of Food Packed, 
Sorted and Gleaned
575,140
Urban Garden, Cleanup 
and Planting Events
1836 Chicago; 54 Omaha; 
22 Facilities and Sales; 
9 International
44
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Lakeview Pantry, Chicago, Ill.Gleaners Food Bank of Indiana
Greater Chicago Food Depository
San Antonio Food BankBright Spots
Throughout the year, we have highlighted many 
employee stories through a weekly feature 
disseminated to all corporate employees 
that we called “Bright Spots.” Here are just 
a few of these heartwarming stories:
Since 2011, Supply Planner 
Kyle O. (Maple Grove, 
Minn.)  has volunteered in 
the kitchen of Open Arms 
of Minnesota, a nonprofit 
dedicated to nourishing mind, 
body and soul by providing 
medically tailored meals for 
people experiencing health crises. 
More than half of Open Arms’ clients are seniors, 
and over 80% face food insecurity. At a time when 
seniors in need of meals are finding it even more 
challenging to access healthy, nutritious food, Open 
Arms and volunteers like Kyle are a vital lifeline. 
HR team members Jessica C., Chris J., Kari L., 
Nicole L. and Melissa S.  supported local schools 
by donating personal protection equipment and other 
essential items, as well as snacks including Slim Jim,® 
Swiss Miss and Orville Redenbacher’s® products, 
to local teachers and students returning 
back to school in person. Members of the  
Omaha LGBT+Ally 
ERG  prepared 
a meal for Youth 
Emergency Services, 
an organization 
that serves youth 
experiencing 
homelessness 
in the area by 
meeting immediate 
needs for food, shelter, and safety, and 
providing a support system for the future.
Matching Gifts Program 
Conagra Brands Foundation is proud to offer a robust 
matching gifts program to our employees of up to 
$1,500 per calendar year. Eligible nonprofits are those 
whose primary purpose is to address issues such 
as: Arts and Culture; Civil Rights, Social Justice and 
Equality; Community Development; Environment; 
Health and Wellness or Nutrition Education; 
Hunger Relief and Post-Secondary Education.We also have a Dollars for Doers program, which 
recognizes the personal volunteer service hours of 
our employees. Eligible nonprofits receive a grant 
when an employee has completed a minimum of 10 
hours of volunteer service during a calendar year. In 
fiscal year 2021 Conagra Brands employees secured 
more than $192,600 in Foundation giving for a variety 
of nonprofit organizations through these programs.
Conagra Brands Foundation 
Employee Scholarship Program 
Conagra Brands Foundation has established a 
scholarship program to assist children of Conagra 
Brands employees who have the passion and 
commitment to continue their education and succeed 
in college, university or vocational school. These 
renewable scholarships are offered each year for full-
time, undergraduate study, at an accredited institution 
of the student’s choice. In fiscal year 2021, Conagra 
Brands Foundation awarded 31 scholarships to children 
of Conagra’s employees for their educational pursuits. 
Northern Illinois Food Bank
45
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
2021 SASB Disclosure
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, private sector standards-setting organization dedicated to enhancing the 
efficiency of the capital markets by fostering high-quality disclosure of material sustainability information that meets investor needs. Our reporting uses 
the Standard for the Processed Foods industry as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System® (SICS®). Note that some responses 
may not fully align with individual SASB metric guidance, but represent data most closely aligned with each metric.
1 Note to FB-PF-130a.1: Includes all Conagra Brands company-owned manufacturing facilities, corporate offices in Omaha and Chicago, corporate jet aircraft fuel, and 
company-owned and operated warehouses
2Note to FB-PF-140a.1: Includes all Conagra Brands company-owned manufacturing facilities
 46
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
TOPIC ACCOUNTING  
METRICCATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Energy 
Management(1) Total energy consumed,  
(2) percentage grid electricity, 
(3) percentage renewableQuantitative Gigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%)FB-PF-130a.1 (1) 9,550,075 gigajoules (GJ) of energy consumed
(2) 34.4% from grid electricity
(3) 2% renewable energy1
Water 
Management(1) Total water withdrawn,  
(2) total water consumed, 
percentage of each in regions 
with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress Quantitative Thousand cubic 
meters (m.), 
Percentage (%)FB-PF-140a.1 (1) 19,695.45 thousand cubic meters (m) of water withdrawn
(2) 14.6% in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress2
Number of incidents of 
non-compliance associated 
with water quantity and/or 
quality permits, standards,  
and regulationsQuantitative Number FB-PF-140a.2 Conagra Brands had two (2) incidents of non-compliance.
Description of water 
management risks and 
discussion of strategies  
and practices to mitigate  
those risksDiscussion  
and Analysisn/a FB-PF-140a.3 The primary tools leveraged by Conagra Brands to identify, assess and respond to water-related risks include: WRI 
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas – Food & Beverage weighting scheme; in-house risk-mapping; a Supplier Excellence 
Program sustainability assessment; and international media resources. Conagra Brands’ sustainability team annually 
reviews the Aqueduct Water Risk data for our manufacturing locations, overlaying production and water withdrawal 
data with internal company knowledge to identify and monitor water use at high-risk sites. If a facility is designated as 
high-risk based on this assessment, water conservation efforts are prioritized at that location, in addition to other 
business drivers of decision-making. Conagra Brands’ Supplier Excellence Program broadly measures the 
performance of our largest and most strategic suppliers on a diverse set of criteria, including social and environmental 
metrics. Water-related questions included in our Supplier Excellence Program assessment include whether suppliers 
respond publicly to the CDP Water Security Questionnaire, have water reduction goals, or implement sustainability 
policies that address agriculture or other value chain water use. The scoring system allows us to quantitatively 
measure supplier progress over time, and Conagra Brands uses this information to enhance business partnerships. 
For more information, see our 2021 CDP Water disclosure at www.cdp.net.
Food Safety Global Food Safety Initiative 
(GFSI) audit (1) non-
conformance rate and (2) 
associated corrective action 
rate for (a) major and (b) minor 
non-conformancesQuantitative Rate FB-PF-250a.1 There were zero (0) major non-conformances identified in fiscal year 2021. This translated to a major non-
conformance rate of 0.0 majors per plant audited. There were 220 minor non-conformances in fiscal year 2021, 
resulting in a minor non-conformance rate of 5.8 minors per plant audited. Corrective actions were implemented for 
100% of the major and minor non-conformances identified and submitted to and accepted by the GFSI certifying body 
for confirmation. > 2021 SASB DISCLOSURE47
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
TOPIC ACCOUNTING  
METRICCATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Food Safety Percentage of ingredients 
sourced from Tier 1 supplier 
facilities certified to a Global 
Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) 
recognized food safety 
certification programQuantitative Percentage (%) 
by costFB-PF-250a.2 We require our suppliers to use an accredited certification body to audit against Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) 
standards annually. Approximately 95% of our Tier 1 suppliers have completed GFSI-recognized certification, which is 
the relevant metric we currently have available to report. 
(1) Total number of notices of 
food safety violation received, 
(2) percentage correctedQuantitative Number, 
Percentage (%)FB-PF-250a.3 Conagra Brands had zero (0) food safety violations. 
(1) Number of recalls issued 
and (2) total amount of food 
product recalledQuantitative Number,  
Metric tons (t)FB-PF-250a.4 (1) Two (2) recalls and one (1) withdrawal in fiscal year 2021, with none resulting in injuries or illnesses.
(2) Approximately 435 metric tons (t) of food product recalled.
Health & 
NutritionRevenue from products labeled 
and/or marketed to promote 
health and nutrition attributesQuantitative Reporting 
currencyFB-PF-260a.1 Revenue from products labeled and/or marketed to promote health and nutrition attributes is approximately $9.7 
billion.
Discussion of the process to 
identify and manage products 
and ingredients related to 
nutritional and health concerns 
among consumersDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a FB-PF-260a.2 Conagra Brands maintains a number of cross-functional groups, including an Attribute Steering Committee and 
Natural Council, that meet regularly to identify and manage products and ingredients the may be related to nutrition, 
health and wellness concerns among consumers. The Committees includes internal subject matter experts from legal, 
regulatory, labelling, nutrition, sustainability, consumer demand, product development, communications, and other 
functions relevant to identifying and managing trending nutritional and health food attributes and any related 
concerns, including but not limited to: sustainable proteins, additives, potential allergens, sodium, sugar, and product 
disclosures. The Committees guide nutrition, health and wellness attribute development and communications for 
product packaging, brand websites, e-commerce and other channels.
Product 
Labeling & 
MarketingPercentage of advertising 
impressions (1) made on 
children and (2) made on 
children promoting products 
that meet dietary guidelinesQuantitative Percentage (%) FB-PF-270a.1 Conagra Brands participates in the Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) of the Council of Better 
Business Bureaus (BBB). Pursuant to our CFBAI pledge, Conagra Brands devotes 100% of our national advertising 
directed to children under 12 years of age to products that meet the CFBAI’s strict uniform nutrition criteria, and does 
not advertise to children under the age of six. In line with our CFBAI commitments, programming is deemed 
“child-directed” if it has an audience of 30% or more children under the age of 12. Conagra also abides by the 
guidelines established by the Children’s Advertising Review Unit (CARU) of the BBB to further ensure we market to 
children responsibly. CARU’s standards are intended to promote child-directed marketing that is not deceptive, unfair, 
or inappropriate, taking into account the unique vulnerabilities of a younger audience. CARU prohibits, among other 
things, claims that unduly exploit a child’s imagination or sales pressure techniques that create a sense of urgency.
Revenue from products labeled 
as (1) containing genetically 
modified organisms (GMOs) 
and (2) non-GMOQuantitative Reporting 
currencyFB-PF-270a.2 (1) 8,076,401,1463 
(2) 936,570,907
Number of incidents of 
non-compliance with industry 
or regulatory labeling  
and/or marketing codesQuantitative Number FB-PF-270a.3 One (1) incident of non-compliance with federal labeling codes, which was promptly addressed with appropriate 
corrective action. Conagra Brands takes compliance seriously and has internal teams who evaluate the company’s 
labels and marketing to ensure they comply with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements. To the extent the 
company learns of a situation of non-compliance, it is addressed immediately.> 2021 SASB DISCLOSURE
3Note to FB-PF-270a.2: Response based on IRI data for Conagra’s fiscal year 2021.48
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
TOPIC ACCOUNTING  
METRICCATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Product 
Labeling & 
MarketingTotal amount of monetary 
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated  
with labeling and/or marketing 
practicesQuantitative Reporting 
currencyFB-PF-270a.4 Conagra Brands is and has been a party to a number of legal proceedings challenging various product claims made  
in the Company’s product labeling. To the extent loss contingencies related to any of these matters could be deemed 
material to the company’s financial statements, they would be disclosed in Conagra Brands’ annual 10-K and/or 
quarterly 10-Q SEC reports.
Packaging 
Lifecycle 
Management(1) Total weight of packaging,  
(2) percentage made from 
recycled and/or renewable 
materials, and (3) percentage 
that is recyclable, reusable, 
and/or compostableQuantitative Metric tons (t), 
Percentage (%)FB-PF-410a.1 (1) Estimated 509,557 metric tons (t) of packaging procured by Conagra Brands 
(2) Estimated 49% made from recycled or renewable materials 
(3) Estimated 93% made from recyclable materials 
Estimates are based, in part, on industry-wide average weights and post-consumer recycled content levels, guided  
by best practices on environmental footprint accounting from organizations such as the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA).
Discussion of strategies to 
reduce the environmental 
impact of packaging 
throughout its lifecycleDiscussion  
and Analysisn/a FB-PF-410a.2 Conagra Brands has committed to make 100% of our current plastic packaging renewable, recyclable or compostable 
by 2025. In addition, we apply key principles of sustainable packaging across packaging formats and materials. These 
sustainable packaging principles provide for adoption of more fiber-based packaging, reduction in material use, and 
packaging redesigns to support recyclability
Environmental 
& Social 
Impacts of 
Ingredient 
Supply ChainPercentage of food ingredients 
sourced that are certified to 
third-party environmental and/
or social standards, and 
percentages by standardQuantitative Percentage (%) 
by costFB-PF-430a.1 100% of Conagra Brands’ suppliers are required to follow our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes third-party 
standards for human rights such as the International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental 
rights set out in the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.  
In addition to our Supplier Code of Conduct requirements: 
• 100% of our palm oil buy is covered by Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Mass Balance certification 
• 100% of fish sourced for our Van de Kamp’s and Mrs. Paul’s products is Marine Stewardship Council  
(MSC)-certified 
• 100% of major U.S. dairy suppliers to Conagra Brands adhere to the National Dairy Farmers Assuring Responsible 
Management (FARM) Animal Care Program 
• Select ingredient volumes are USDA Organic-certified, though we do not currently have volume data
Suppliers' social and 
environmental responsibility 
audit (1) non-conformance rate 
and (2) associated corrective 
action rate for (a) major and  
(b) minor non-conformancesQuantitative Rate FB-PF-430a.2 Our risk management team monitors our entire supplier list daily for regulatory violations and legal actions, including 
those on regulatory corruption, social and environmental compliance. There were zero (0) incidents of non-compliance 
found related to environmental compliance, child labor and human trafficking, which translates to a non-conformance 
rate of 0.0.
Ingredient 
SourcingPercentage of food ingredients 
sourced from regions with 
High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water StressQuantitative Percentage (%) 
by costFB-PF-440a.1 Based on WRI’s Aqueduct Analysis, 5% of our responsible sourcing priority ingredients are directly sourced from 
geographies rated as High water stress areas. Our priority ingredients represent those we deem most material for  
ESG risk analysis based on global risk trends and volumes sourced.
List of priority food ingredients 
and discussion of sourcing 
risks due to environmental  
and social considerationsDiscussion  
and Analysisn/a FB-PF-440a.2 As part of our Supplier Excellence Program, Conagra Brands assesses key suppliers at least annually on ESG 
risk-related performance and disclosure. Metrics include public supplier response to CDP Water, Forest and Investor 
questionnaires; annual sustainability disclosures in accordance with GRI or SASB frameworks; and policy/
commitments adequately addressing sustainability risks specific to the supplier’s industry. The annual sustainability 
assessment is supplemented by quarterly performance discussions and risk analyses, and we work in partnership 
with our suppliers to address any issues or gaps. Conagra Brands’ priority ingredients and additional risk management 
practices are listed in alphabetical order below:> 2021 SASB DISCLOSURE49
CONAGRA BRANDS    2021 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
TOPIC ACCOUNTING  
METRICCATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Ingredient 
SourcingList of priority food ingredients 
and discussion of sourcing 
risks due to environmental and 
social considerationsDiscussion  
and Analysisn/a FB-PF-440a.2 • Beef: Risk management priorities include ecosystem impacts such as deforestation. To mitigate these risks, 
Conagra Brands’ Supplier Code of Conduct states that Conagra Brands does not procure beef directly sourced from 
areas at high risk for deforestation, specifically the Amazon, the Cerrado and the Gran Chaco in Latin America.
• Broiler chickens: Risk management priorities include animal welfare. To mitigate these risks, by 2024, Conagra 
Brands aims to source 100% of chicken used in products from either Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to 
Animals (RSPCA) or Global Animal Partnership (GAP)-approved breeds or strains; offer improved environments that 
meet GAP standards for better lighting, litter quality and other enrichments; provide birds with more space to 
perform natural behaviors, including a stocking density of no greater than six pounds per square foot and no use  
of broiler cages; employ a multi-step controlled atmosphere processing system and avoid live-shackling or 
live-dumping; and track supplier compliance via third-party auditing.
• Cocoa: Risk management priorities include ecosystem impacts such as deforestation and labor practices. To mitigate 
these risks, Conagra Brands’ Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to reduce environmental impacts such as 
deforestation and avoid causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts through their own activities and 
address such impacts when they occur and seek to prevent or mitigate adverse human rights impacts that are 
directly linked to their operations, products or services by their business relationships, even if they have not 
contributed to those impacts.
• Dairy: Risk management priorities include animal welfare. To mitigate these risks, Conagra Brands sources 
primarily from the U.S., where major dairy suppliers adhere to the National Dairy Farmers Assuring Responsible 
Management (FARM) Animal Care Program.
• Eggs: Risk management priorities include animal welfare. To mitigate these risks, Conagra Brands has made an 
ambitious commitment to directly source 100% cage free eggs by 2024, one year earlier than its original commitment.
• Palm oil: Risk management priorities include ecosystem impacts such as deforestation, labor practices, and 
geographic water scarcity. To mitigate these risks, 100% of our palm oil buy is covered by Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Mass Balance certification.
• Popcorn: Risk management priorities include agricultural inputs and impacts. To mitigate these risks, we source 
from geographies at low risk for contributing to agricultural runoff pollution in the Gulf of Mexico, according to 
internal assessments.
• Pork: Risk management priorities include animal welfare. To mitigate these risks, 100% of pork sourced in 
accordance with the Pork Quality Assurance® Plus (PQA Plus) standards for animal welfare, food safety, public 
health, and other responsible business practices.
• Seafood: Risk management priorities include overfishing and ecosystem impacts. To mitigate these risks, 100% of 
fish used in Van de Kamp’s and Mrs. Paul’s brands is third-party certified sustainable via Marine Stewardship 
Council certification.> 2021 SASB DISCLOSURE
ACTIVITY METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Weight of products sold Quantitative Metric tons (t) FB-PF-000.A Weight of products produced is approximately 3.5 metric tons (t)4
Number of production facilities Quantitative Number FB-PF-000.B 455 
4Note to FB-PF-000.A: Includes all Conagra Brands company-owned manufacturing facilities
5Note to FB-PF-000.B: Includes all Conagra Brands company-owned manufacturing facilitiesFor more information, please contact Conagra Brands Investor Relations: IR@conagra.com222 Merchandise Mart Plaza
Suite 1300
Chicago, IL 60654
©Conagra Brands, Inc. All rights reserved.Reporting Parameters
Thank you for your interest in  
Conagra Brands’ 2021 Citizenship Report.
All data in this report cover the company’s fiscal  
year 2021, which ended May 30, 2021, unless  
otherwise specified. Our reporting covers all company-
owned facilities. APEX Companies, LLC completed  
an independent verification  of environmental data 
included in the Better Planet section of this report. 
Other data included in the report have not been 
audited by a third party; however, the report does 
include the best information available through our 
existing data management systems. Additional 
information about our company is available on 
our website, www.conagrabrands.com.
Contact
For questions regarding this report, please 
contact sustainability@conagra.com