Conagra Brands  
Citizenship Report  
2020CONTENTS
Conagra Brands  
Citizenship Report 2020
Overview
From our President and CEO 3
Conagra Brands at a Glance 4
Citizenship Philosophy and Focus Areas 5
2020 Highlights  6
Materiality  7
Responding to COVID-19  9Good Food
Food Safety  11
Nutrition  12
Product Transparency  14
Responsible Marketing to Children  15Responsible Sourcing
Supply Chain Practices 16
Sustainable Agriculture  17
Sustainable Sourcing  19
Priority Ingredients and Materials  20
Supply Chain Water Risk  22
Sustainable Packaging  23
Better Planet
Operational Sustainability  25
Sustainable Development Awards  
Program 25
Environmental Management  26
Climate Change  27
Energy Use & Efficiency  28
Water Use & Water Quality  29
Eliminating Waste  30Stronger Communities
Corporate Ethics  31
Employee Health & Safety 32
Inclusive Workplace  33
Diversity & Inclusion  35
Community Impact & Philanthropy  372020 SASB Disclosure
2020 SASB Disclosure 42
About this Report
Reporting Parameters  47
Contact  48
2
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTFrom our President and Chief Executive Officer
As I reflect on the 
past year, I must first 
express my gratitude 
for the strength and 
resilience displayed 
by our employees 
who have worked 
tirelessly to nourish 
our communities. 
The economic and 
social impact of the 
COVID-19 pandemic 
has been felt around the world. Food insecurity has 
been further exacerbated and, in the U.S., has left tens 
of millions of people unable to access nutritious food. 
In response to the increased strain on our nation’s food 
banks, Conagra has provided product donations and 
cash contributions to essential nonprofits, organized 
food drives, and when safe and appropriate, volunteered 
in our communities to help our neighbors in need. 
We have also seen unprecedented attention to—and 
action on—the systemic issues of racism, injustice, 
and inequality in America. Diversity and inclusion 
have always been a focus for Conagra Brands, but 
we also recognize that we can be better. We’re taking 
meaningful actions to help employees to experience 
inclusion and holding ourselves accountable. Conagra 
Brands has set ambitious representation and retention 
goals, including doubling the representation of people 
of color in management and middle-management 
roles and having at least 40% of management-level 
roles held by women within the next five years.Throughout the year, our 
commitment to nourish 
people, the planet and our 
communities took form in 
new product innovations, 
progress on our sustainable 
packaging goal, and our 
employees’ actions to build 
stronger communities. 
Product Innovation:  Our relentless focus on 
innovation to meet the needs of modern consumers 
continues to accelerate, including by offering more 
plant-based options, which are a significant part of 
our business. This past year, we launched numerous 
nutritious offerings such as new varieties of Healthy 
Choice® Power Bowls, which are packed with 
protein and wholesome ingredients. In 2020, we also 
expanded our collection of Gardein® plant-based meat 
alternatives from the freezer case to the soup aisle 
with the debut of five new vegan Gardein Soups. 
Environmental Impact:  We made strides on our 
goal to make 100% of our current plastic packaging 
renewable, recyclable or compostable by 2025. This 
summer, we launched new Hungry-Man® Double 
Meat Bowls and P .F . Chang’s® Ramen single-serve 
meals in serving bowls made from plant-based fibers. Over the next few years, we aim to avoid the use of 
an additional 33 million pounds of plastic through 
further development of plant-based packaging 
options and other packaging innovations. 
Generating less waste for disposal, reducing energy 
use and water use, and preserving biodiversity by 
mitigating deforestation are core tenants of Conagra’s 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) strategy. 
Through our employee-led Sustainable Development 
Awards program, now in its 11th year, we conserved 
120 million gallons of water, decreased our carbon 
footprint by 15,700 metric tons and reduced waste 
by more than 5,700 tons in fiscal year 2020. 
Community Support:  Through employee volunteerism, 
product donations and financial contributions, we 
helped to stock pantries as well as reduce food 
waste, and contributed financially to nonprofits 
in communities where we operate. In fiscal year 
2020, we donated more than 30 million pounds 
of food to Feeding America and its network of 
food banks, the equivalent of 25 million meals. 
 
Our efforts this year reflect Conagra’s dedication 
to operating ethically and responsibly. Even in 
the face of so much uncertainty, I am proud of 
the progress we made to remain true to our core 
values and positively impact the world around us.
Sean M. Connolly
President and Chief Executive Officer
3
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEWEMPLOYEES
Approximately  
16,300
HEADQUARTERS
Chicago
REVENUE
Approximately  
$11 billion
FACILITIES
Approximately  
50Conagra Brands at a Glance
®
BRANDS1
Include
1 Visit conagrabrands.com  for a full list of brands.
 4
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEWCitizenship Philosophy and Focus Areas
For our consumers and employees, our communities and our planet, Conagra Brands’ commitment is to nourish—to foster community, health and growth. This means making 
food that’s delicious, safe, nutritious and convenient, while addressing the key economic, environmental and social impacts directly linked to our activities and products, such 
as through our connection to our employees and our business relationships with farmers, suppliers, customers and others. 
Our citizenship strategy includes four focus areas: Good Food, Responsible Sourcing, Better Planet and Stronger Communities. Together, these strategic pillars articulate  
our values and ambitions as a responsible corporate citizen. We look forward to making good food for generations to come, and doing so in a way that supports responsible 
sourcing, stronger communities and a better planet.
Good Food 
We continuously strive to make safe, delicious and nutritious foods, while 
providing the information that consumers need to make educated food choices.
Better Planet
The health of the planet and availability of natural resources are intricately linked to 
every part of our business. We’re especially focused on acting on climate change, 
preserving water resources, and eliminating waste.Responsible Sourcing
We approach the sourcing of ingredients and packaging materials with care and 
consideration, taking into account environmental, social and economic impacts  
across our value chain.
Stronger Communities
Conagra Brands cares deeply about our employees and we invest in them, their 
growth, success and overall wellbeing. In our communities where we live and work, 
we take action to address the issue of hunger by activating a variety of our resources, 
including employee volunteerism, product donations and financial contributions.
5
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEW2020 Highlights
Through our employee-led 
Sustainable Development 
Awards program, we:
conserved 120 million 
gallons of water
decreased our carbon 
footprint by 15,700  
metric tons 
reduced waste by more 
than 5,700 tonsBy using plant-based fiber 
bowls instead of plastic for 
Healthy Choice® Power Bowls, 
Hungry-Man® Double Meat 
Bowls and P.F. Chang’s® 
single-serve meals, we 
reduced the carbon 
footprint of packaging 
manufacturing for these 
products by 50–70%1
   We initiated a 
program to have 100% of fish 
sourced for our Van de Kamp’s® 
and Mrs. Paul’s® fish products 
Marine Stewardship Council 
(MSC)-certified
 We achieved a 100% on the 
Human Rights Campaign’s 
Corporate Equality Index  
for the sixth year in a row
We were recognized as one 
of the 50 most community-
minded companies  in the 
nation by Civic 50 for the 
second consecutive year
1 Source: GaBi Packaging Calculator analysis courtesy of Footprint, accessed June 2020
6
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEWMateriality: What Matters, Where it Matters
Our materiality analysis reflects current business strategies and stakeholder dialogues on relevant environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics.  
Our materiality matrix identified 21 topics across four strategic pillars: Better Planet, Good Food, Responsible Sourcing and Stronger Communities. 
Our Citizenship strategy is deeply rooted in this holistic and objective view into what topics matter most, with an eye on how our activities impact global 
efforts to reach the UN Sustainable Development Goals . These 17 goals address challenges such as access to food, inequality, climate change, 
water scarcity, and community empowerment, and intersect with Conagra Brands’ material topics, goals and ESG management strategies.
Conagra Brands 
Materiality Assessment:
Relative priority 
of corporate 
citizenship topics
IMPORTANT STRATEGIC CRITICALSIGNIFICANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS
SIGNIFICANCE TO CONAGRA BRANDS••
•Water Consumption  •
Product Transparency  •
Transportation & Logistics  •Food Safety  •
Sustainable Sourcing  •
Packaging  •
Culture & Workplace  •
• Employee Health & Wellness• Solid Waste• Energy Use• Climate Change• Corporate Ethics• Health & Nutrition
• Diversity & Inclusion• Supplier Code of Conduct
• Environmental Compliance• Animal WelfareFood Policy  •
DeforestationFood Waste
Community Impacts & Philanthropy
Stronger CommunitiesBetter PlanetResponsible SourcingGood Food
7
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEW1 Based on Conagra’s internal assessment of the success metrics for each UN Goal, as compared to our CSR efforts.Alignment of Material Topics with the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals  
 
Each of Conagra Brands’ CSR efforts support a  
component of the UN Sustainable Development Goals.1
CRITICAL STRATEGIC IMPORTANT
Food Safety: 2, 3, 9 Water Consumption: 6, 12 Deforestation: 2, 11, 15
Health & Nutrition: 2, 3, 9 Product Transparency: 2, 3, 12 Animal Welfare: 2, 14
Corporate Ethics: 1, 5, 8, 10, 16 Food Waste: 2, 12 Transportation & Logistics: 7
Supplier Code of Conduct: 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 16 Sustainable Sourcing: 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 13, 14, 15
Climate Change: 7, 11, 13 Packaging: 2, 8, 11, 12
Diversity & Inclusion: 1, 5, 10, Food Policy: 9
Environmental Compliance: 3, 6, 8, 12 Culture & Workplace: 3, 4, 5, 8, 16
Energy Use: 3, 7
Solid Waste: 8, 11, 12
Community Impacts & Philanthropy: 1, 2, 4, 11, 17
Employee Health & Wellness: 3, 5
8
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEWProtecting our Communities: Responding to COVID-19
Effectively addressing 
the pandemic requires 
everyone to do their 
part. We are thankful 
for our dedicated 
employees who are 
working tirelessly 
to make our food 
available to consumers.
As of the publication of this report, the pandemic’s 
effects continue to be felt by every one of Conagra 
Brands’ employees, from those on the front lines 
in our facilities who work tirelessly to produce vital 
foods to replenish store shelves, to those who 
ensure that our daily operations run smoothly and 
the company is getting food to customers and 
consumers as quickly and safely as possible. 
Throughout this time, Conagra Brands’ facilities 
are continuing to operate with safety top-of-
mind. We are determined to keep our employees 
safe as we make great products that meet the 
needs of our consumers and communities. We’ve 
implemented a wide array of preventative measures 
to keep people safe and healthy, including:
• Creating proper social distance in work areas  
by modifying workstations and/or using  
plexiglass barriers 
• Requiring face coverings in all of our facilities• Staggering shift start and stop times
• Reformatting breakrooms and limiting conference 
room usage 
• Screening employees upon entry, including with 
temperature taking
• Continuing our rigorous plant maintenance and 
sanitation processes
• Promoting good hygiene and preventative techniques 
in our facilities and away from the workplace
• Supporting employees who are directly impacted—
either due to illness or quarantine requirements
• Proactively managing the contract tracing process
• Communicating openly and regularly with employeesThe hard work and dedication of our employees at 
our food production and distribution facilities has 
been truly inspiring. To date, Conagra has committed 
more than $13 million in special bonuses for front-
line employees and continued to pay any employee 
who needs to be away from work due to a COVID-
19-related production suspension or illness.
The pandemic also provided a stark perspective on the 
issue of food insecurity. Many Americans experience 
food insecurity and regular access to nutritious 
food is a consistent challenge. As a leading food 
company, Conagra Brands is uniquely positioned to 
have a positive impact in our communities. Conagra 
has provided support in many ways, including:
• Supporting Feeding America: Conagra Brands 
provides ongoing product donations to Feeding 
America, our national partner and the largest hunger 
relief organization in the United States. Conagra 
donated the equivalent of 25 million meals to Feeding 
America for distribution to its food banks across 
the country in fiscal year 2020. From March 2020 
through December 2020, Conagra has donated the 
equivalent of 15.3 million meals to Feeding America.
• Making cash contributions: In addition to product 
donations, during this same time frame we have 
provided cash contributions totaling more than 
$2.15 million to organizations including Feeding 
America, Greater Chicago Food Depository, Food 
Bank for the Heartland in Omaha, Asociación 
Mexicana de Bancos de Alimentos in Mexico, 
United Way Centraide in Canada, Food Banks 
Canada and others to help address their increased 
needs due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
9
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEWProtecting our Communities: Responding to COVID-19
Providing support at a local level during 2020:
• We launched remote food drives at our Chicago and 
Omaha offices to support local hunger relief agencies. 
In Chicago, our food drive rescued 3,860 pounds  
of food and donated products to Lakeview Pantry.  
In Nebraska and Iowa, we rescued 22 pallets of  
food from our Omaha offices and our facility in 
Council Bluffs, which was provided to Food Bank  
for the Heartland.
• In Illinois, we partnered with Feeding Illinois and the 
Illinois Broadcasters Association to encourage 
viewers and listeners to make donations to bolster 
dwindling food supplies at area food banks. Conagra 
Brands Foundation announced a match of up to 
$100,000, helping drive the fundraising goal to $1.5 
million. 
• Our team in Mexico City partnered with the United 
Way of Mexico to deliver individual meals to hospital 
staff in Mexico City and produce a video message of 
inspiration and hope for hospital workers. Additionally, 
we partnered with Ya Respondiste in Mexico City and 
World Vision in Veracruz to prepare supplemental 
food boxes that were delivered to families in Mexico 
City and Veracruz.
• Our team in Canada provided a variety of community-
based organizations food product donations and cash 
contributions to assist people in Ontario, Quebec and 
British Columbia. In a unique partnership with Peel 
Children’s Aid Foundation, the team provided food 
gift cards which were distributed by social care 
workers to families in need.We are thankful for our dedicated employees who 
are working tirelessly to make our food available to 
consumers. Whether it’s a nutritious family dinner, 
a quick snack, a kid-friendly meal or an indulgent 
dessert, our hope is that people find comfort in the 
food we make, especially in today’s environment. 
We are determined to meet our commitments 
to our customers, consumers and communities. 
During this time of extreme disruption, our team’s 
adaptability and sharpened focus has strengthened 
the long-term resilience of the company and 
communities where our employees live and work. 
Let’s continue to work together to nurture 
safe and healthy communities. 
10
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > OVERVIEWFood Safety
Food safety is ingrained in the culture of Conagra 
Brands, as we recognize that making food that our 
consumers can safely enjoy is the responsibility of 
everyone at the company. Consistent with this 
commitment, Conagra Brands has dedicated Food 
Safety & Quality teams who are responsible for 
managing the integrity of our food—beginning with 
sourcing ingredients and all the way through preparation 
and delivery to our customers and consumers. These 
teams are comprised of subject matter experts who 
provide functional leadership on all matters related to 
food safety and quality, including:
• Food safety and quality in production  
and distribution
• Supplier food safety and quality
• Consumer affairs
• Sanitation
• Allergens
• Microbiology, toxicology, and chemistry
• Thermal processing
• Religious certification (Kosher, Halal)
• Engineering
• Foreign material contamination
• AuditingOutside of the company, we work closely with our 
suppliers to ensure food safety and the quality of 
our ingredients. Our suppliers use an accredited 
certification body to audit against Global Food 
Safety Initiative (GFSI) standards annually. 
Approximately 80% of our direct suppliers have 
completed GFSI-recognized certification. 
We also engage outside experts to help ensure that 
our food safety and quality programs are world-class. 
We have a Food Safety Council, which provides 
ongoing input and advice on new and emerging 
food safety practices. The Council’s members are 
recognized in the industry for their expertise in 
specific food safety disciplines such as food science, 
microbiology, public health and public policy.As leaders in food safety, we are continuously looking 
for innovative solutions to modernize food safety 
practices throughout our operations. We are investing 
in new technologies that will further help us operate 
our supply chain more efficiently and effectively to 
deliver safe and high-quality products. In addition, we 
have embraced the Food Safety Modernization Act 
(FSMA), and remain actively engaged with industry 
and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
as this important law continues to be implemented. 
In the rare event that our food does not meet our 
high standards for regulatory compliance, quality 
assurance or food safety, we take marketplace 
action as necessary. For additional Food Safety 
metrics please refer to our SASB disclosure .
11
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > GOOD FOODNutrition
Conagra Brands continuously innovates to 
deliver foods with nutrition benefits that meet 
today’s consumer expectations. Within our 
nutrition platform, we focus on four pillars:
1. Nutrient rich whole foods
2. Sustainable nutrition
3. Access to healthy food
4. Personal health goals 
Nutrient-Rich Whole Food Focus
Nutrition research shows that shifting people toward 
better diets cannot focus solely on nutrients, but 
instead should promote healthier eating patterns 
with more nutrient-rich whole foods. Today, many 
consumers are seeking more whole and natural 
foods that contain ingredients they trust to help them 
achieve their health and wellness goals, and we are 
dedicated to providing solutions to meet their needs.Whole vegetables, whole grain popcorn, and frozen 
meals delivering vegetables and quality protein 
make up the majority of our portfolio. The nutrient 
density of our portfolio is considered best in class 
as exemplified by the current Access to Nutrition 
Index (ATNI) U.S. Spotlight Index1. After rigorous 
nutrition evaluation by ATNI of the 10 largest U.S. 
food companies’ portfolios, Conagra Brands 
was ranked #1 in the Product Profile ranking.
 
Our Healthy Choice® brand exemplifies our 
nutrient-rich whole food strategy. The Power 
Bowls line features modern flavors with unique 
nutrient-dense vegetables and whole grains for 
consumers wanting healthy and nutritious food.
Sustainable Nutrition 
Our approach to nutrition increasingly incorporates 
environmental sustainability. Conagra Brands 
utilizes findings from The EAT-Lancet Commission 
on Food, Planet and Health and recognizes 
the UN FAO definition of sustainable diets,  
which takes into consideration nutrition and 
health, economic impacts, social impacts and 
cultural context, and environmental impacts.
Plant-based offerings are a significant part of our 
business, with 78% of all ingredients procured plant-
based by volume. Our Gardein® brand of plant-based 
proteins generated more than $160 million in sales in 
fiscal year 2020. Our line of Gardein products allows 
vegans, vegetarians, and flexitarians to enjoy high-
quality protein from plant-based foods, helping move 
our portfolio toward earth-friendly proteins that are 
good for people and good for the planet. Supplying 
essential vitamins, minerals and plant protein, Birds Eye® is our biggest brand and generated more 
than $1.5 billion in retail sales in fiscal year 2020. 
In July 2020, Conagra Brands was recognized in 
a FAIRR report as a top-ranked U.S. company in 
sustainable proteins,  exemplifying our proactive 
and sustainable approach to offering more plant 
based food options. FAIRR is a group backed by 
dozens of institutional investors managing more 
than $25 trillion in assets. Their report ranked 
Conagra Brands in the “proactive” category because 
we have demonstrated evidence of addressing 
risks in our animal protein supply chain and 
expanded our plant-based protein portfolio.
We continue to build on these successes by 
innovating new plant-based products and 
offering viable options for consumers looking to 
incorporate more plant foods into their diets.
1 Source: Based on 2018 ATNI Index . ATNI is generally reissued every 2-3 years.
 12
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > GOOD FOODAccess to Healthy Food
Conagra strives to increase access to healthy food. 
By working with government agencies, retailers, and 
food service customers, we actively bring visibility to 
foods that meet criteria for federal nutrition programs, 
such as Women, Infants and Children (WIC) and 
Child Nutrition Programs. By doing so, we help 
families have greater access to healthier foods. 
WIC has been successfully improving the health 
outcomes of low-income pregnant women and young 
children for more than 50 years. It provides $3 billion for 
healthy food to more than 6 million program participants 
each year and has been shown to successfully 
decrease food insecurity. This past year, we developed 
a new WIC strategy management process. Our new 
cross-functional process has created an effective 
collaboration with state agencies. To date, we’ve added 
more than 200 SKUs to states’ WIC-approved product 
lists, enabling visibility to eligible foods that otherwise 
would not be available for WIC shoppers. Birds Eye® 
frozen vegetables, Hunt’s® and Rotel® tomatoes, 
and Rosarita® beans exemplify foods that provide 
nutrition and economic value to WIC participants. 
Personal Health Goals
We are committed to developing foods that help 
consumers adhere to their personal nutrition goals 
and philosophies, such as keto, low carb, paleo, 
vegan, vegetarian, heart healthy or no added sugar. 
For our health and wellness products, our food 
design framework includes nutrient guardrails that 
enable our food scientists and chefs to create recipes 
that deliver the intended nutrition attributes.
These attributes come to life in products like 
Healthy Choice® single-serving meals that meet 
the regulated FDA definition of Healthy and provide 
lower carbohydrate, gluten free and heart-healthy options. We also provide selections, like Duncan 
Hines® Keto-friendly cups and evol paleo-friendly 
meals, that can help consumers adhere to lower 
carb and/or higher protein eating styles by offering 
more choices in otherwise restrictive diets.
13
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > GOOD FOODProduct Transparency
Conagra Brands is committed to providing access to the information consumers want and need to make informed decisions about what they eat.
SmartLabel
SmartLabel leverages mobile technology to 
provide consumers with easy access to product 
information—detailed nutritional information, ingredient 
definitions, allergens, ingredient certifications such 
as USDA organic and Non-GMO Project Verified, 
and many other product attributes, as well as 
associated manufacturing practices like waste, 
energy, and water use reduction. Currently, we have 
approximately 5,000 pages live on smartlabel.org .Genetically Modified Ingredients
Many of our products, such as Hunt’s® tomatoes and 
Alexia® vegetables, are Non-GMO Project Verified . 
Conagra fully supports the National Bioengineered 
Food Disclosure Law, which requires food companies 
to disclose certain information about GMOs. Now 
that the final National Bioengineered Food Disclosure 
Standard has been issued by the USDA, we intend to 
comply fully by the January 2022 compliance deadline.
Allergen Labeling
The Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection 
Act requires food manufacturers to clearly indicate 
when they’ve used one of eight major allergens: 
milk, eggs, fish, crustacean shellfish, peanuts, tree 
nuts, wheat, and soy. For any branded foods that 
contain one of these allergens, we include a plain 
language “Contains” statement below the ingredient 
statement. Some of our food packages might feature 
a precautionary “May Contain” statement. Conagra 
closely monitors allergen management trends 
and other food safety risks and works to minimize 
potential impacts. We always use Good Manufacturing 
Practices (GMPs) and thoroughly clean our equipment 
after using allergen-containing ingredients.Gluten-free Products
Our portfolio offers options for consumers looking 
for gluten-free foods, including Udi’s® and Glutino® 
bread, snacks, pizza, and baking mixes. According 
to FDA labeling rules, any foods bearing a “Gluten 
Free” claim must contain less than 20 ppm (parts 
per million) gluten. To ensure full compliance with 
the FDA’s defined standard for gluten content, 
Conagra only uses the “Gluten Free” claim on a 
food after implementing comprehensive testing 
protocols, including ingredient reviews, facility 
suitability, and overall product composition.
14
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > GOOD FOODResponsible 
Marketing to Children
Since 2007, Conagra has participated in the 
Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising 
Initiative (CFBAI)  of the Council of Better Business 
Bureaus. We adhere to CFBAI’s criteria, including 
that advertised foods contribute important food 
groups: fruits, vegetables, non/low-fat dairy, whole 
grains, key nutrients, or some combination of 
these components. Our commitments include:
• Devoting 100% of our advertising directed to  
children under 12 years of age to products that  
meet CFBAI’s uniform nutrition criteria.
• Never seeking product placements in children’s 
programming.
• Never running advertising primarily directed to 
children under 6 years of age in TV, radio, print or 
online, including websites, online games, DVDs and 
other video formats, mobile apps, and word of mouth 
platforms.
• Never advertising our foods to children in elementary 
schools, even foods that meet CFBAI’s nutrition 
criteria. This commitment applies to the entire school, 
its facilities and grounds, and covers the entire school 
day, whenever children are under the supervision of 
the school or third parties on behalf of the school.
CFBAI’s criteria also set rigorous standards that limit 
calories, saturated fat, sodium and added sugars.Natural Product Claims
Conagra Brands has implemented an internal Natural Council, which is responsible for carefully reviewing all 
proposed natural claims for Conagra Brands’ products. Comprised of cross-functional team members from 
Conagra’s Legal, Regulatory, Product Development, Labeling, and Food Safety & Quality departments, the Natural 
Council ensures all Conagra products featuring a natural claim meet the applicable U.S. laws and regulations and 
the company’s requirements for such claims.1 These requirements were developed, and are updated as necessary, 
to be consistent with the USDA’s Natural Policy and the FDA’s guidelines for natural claims. All Conagra products 
with a natural claim at a minimum do not contain artificial or synt hetic ingredients, artificial flavors or colors, or 
chemical preservatives.
1  To the extent any Conagra Brands products bearing a natural claim are sold or distributed outside the U.S., this statement is not intended to provide any assurances 
by Conagra Brands as to the compliance of the natural claim with any applicable laws or regulations of the country where the products will be sold or distributed.
15
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > GOOD FOODSupply Chain Practices
Supplier Code of Conduct
Conagra’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers  applies 
across the board to all of our suppliers and covers 
legal compliance with workplace and human rights; 
animal welfare; health, safety and the environment; 
ethical dealings; and monitoring and recordkeeping. 
Standards address non-discrimination, no forced 
or compulsory labor, no child labor, immigration 
law compliance, freedom of association, animal 
welfare, deforestation and other areas. 
Each requirement within our Supplier Code of 
Conduct must be absolutely and continuously met 
and supported by appropriate documentation. We 
maintain full rights to inspect facilities and review 
applicable documentation to ensure compliance. 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct also specifies that our 
suppliers must take reasonable actions to ensure that 
their suppliers and sub-contractors are in compliance. 
We provide guidance to our suppliers regarding 
subcontracting and require them to replicate our 
requirements all the way down their supply chains.
Conagra Brands uses a rigorous due diligence 
process to ensure that we have appropriate 
documentation regarding new suppliers and the 
materials to be purchased from them. This includes, 
but is not limited to, spec sheets, allergen information, 
conflicts of interest disclosures, third-party audits 
and country of manufacture statements.
Our Supplier Quality and Risk teams review all materials 
to be purchased, where those materials come from, 
the potential supplier’s third-party audit, proposed 
final use of the material and other information about the material or supplier. The Supplier Quality team 
also looks at new suppliers’ conformance with specific 
expectations set forth in our Supplier Expectations 
Manual.  Our Risk team’s due diligence screens 
specifically include criteria related to environmental 
compliance, child labor and human trafficking. 
Dedicated procurement staff provide continuous 
support to each direct supplier via periodic 
touchpoints to discuss any sustainability 
developments or other issues that might arise.
Supplier Excellence Program
The Supplier Excellence Program applies to our 
top direct material suppliers, which includes 53 
suppliers, representing approximately 58% of our 
overall spend on food ingredients, commodities 
and packaging direct material spend.
As part of our Supplier Excellence Program, Conagra 
Brands assesses key suppliers at least annually on 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) risk-
related performance and disclosure. Metrics include 
public supplier response to CDP Water, Forest and 
Investor questionnaires; GRI-compliant reporting; 
and policy/commitments adequately addressing 
sustainability risks specific to the supplier’s industry, 
including climate change. The annual sustainability 
assessment is supplemented by quarterly performance 
discussions and risk analyses, and we work in 
partnership with our suppliers to address any issues 
or gaps. We recognize top performing suppliers at our annual Supplier Excellence Summit, with awards 
to recognize suppliers who represent industry best 
practices in Sustainability and Diversity & Inclusion. 
Winners are chosen from among the highest-rated 
suppliers according to our ESG risk assessment.
16
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGSustainable Agriculture
Conagra Brands is a proud partner of U.S. Farmers 
and Ranchers in Action,  working across the value 
chain with farmers, ranchers, food and agriculture 
stakeholders to co-create sustainable food systems. 
We support USFRA’s vision that farmers and ranchers 
enable the food systems of the future, support 
biodiversity, water conservation and water system 
restoration, with the potential to shift U.S. agriculture 
to be net-neutral for greenhouse gas emissions. U.S. 
agriculture has the potential to support each of the 
2030 UN Sustainable Development Goals, with an 
outsized positive impact on a core group of seven.Decade of Ag Vision
In September 2020, we partnered with USFRA and 
approximately 200 stakeholders across the value chain 
to create the Decade of Ag Vision.  The vision outlines 
a resilient, restorative, economically viable, and climate-
smart agricultural system that produces abundant 
and nutritious food, natural fiber, and clean energy for 
a sustainable, vibrant, and prosperous America by:
• Restoring our environment through 
agriculture that regenerates natural 
resources
• Revitalizing our collective appreciation  
for agriculture
• Investing in the next generation of 
agricultural systems
• Strengthening the social and economic 
fabric of America through agriculture
The Decade of Ag vision requires 
collaboration and action across the entire 
food value chain. Conagra contributes 
to the Decade of Ag vision through our 
Birds Eye® Good Agricultural Practices 
Program, a circular approach to our ag-
focused manufacturing operations, and 
supplier engagements on sustainable 
sourcing for priority ingredients. Reducing Waste and Supporting 
Circularity in Agriculture
In addition to strong grower practices, Conagra utilizes 
green manufacturing processes and works with 
local crop, livestock and dairy producers to support 
circular agricultural systems and a circular economy 
as envisioned by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation1. 
Our Hunt’s® tomato facility in Oakdale, Calif. cleans 
and recycles water used to process tomatoes into farm 
irrigation water, supporting conservation throughout 
the supply chain and regeneration of local watersheds. 
Our Birds Eye facility in Waseca, Minn. generates 
240,000,000 pounds of unneeded byproducts from 
peas, sweet corn and rice production annually—and 
every pound is recycled locally into livestock feed or 
fertilizer. This facility also recycles water used to clean 
and process vegetables back into irrigation water 
to grow food for animals, growing enough forage 
to feed a 170-head livestock herd for one year. 
1  According to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation , a circular economy seeks to rebuild capital, whether this is financial, manufactured, 
human, social or natural. Conagra’s corporate citizenship activities support select elements of a circular economy.
17
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Birds Eye Good Agricultural Practices Program
Birds Eye® carrots, peas, sweet corn and green bean 
crops are all grown in the U.S. from a network of 300 
family farms. Our farmers want the land to be healthy 
for future generations. Our farmers use smart practices 
to save water, support biodiversity, and improve soil 
health to help fight climate change. Conagra Brands 
has invested in technology in the fields to monitor 
the plant’s nutrient needs using real-time data. This 
allows us to sync harvesting with our production 
schedule, so that we pick our vegetables at peak 
ripeness and transport them directly to our plants that 
are ready to receive, wash and freeze them within a 
few hours. All Birds Eye fields are estimated to be 
in the top 20% of production based on the USDA’s 
National Agricultural Statistics Service annual report.Sustainability is a key component in all our Birds Eye 
producer’s farm management plans. Our farmers 
complete a Birds Eye Good Agricultural Practices 
(GAP) survey to minimize ESG risks within Conagra’s 
supply chain and maximize sustainability benefits 
through confirmed actions such as a land use risk 
assessment, traceability to each production area, and 
a farm water quality assessment. As part of the Birds 
Eye Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) program and 
individual farm management plans, Birds Eye farmers: 
• Support soil health through crop rotation, planting 
cover crops and minimizing tillage (plowing) to  
reduce erosion; 
• Reduce water consumption  through advanced 
irrigation techniques and recycling water where 
possible; • Reduce fertilizer application  by implementing 
the use of Variable rate fertilizer application 
technology and application of nitrogen as needed; 
• Filter water runoff and preserve ecosystem 
biodiversity  through on-farm conservation buffers—
small areas of vegetation or strips of land; and 
• Support healthy pollinator populations  by 
providing Birds Eye farmers access to bee habitat 
data via resources such as FieldWatch , a non-profit 
academic collaborative that promotes communication 
between crop growers and beekeepers in 
support of stewardship and responsible use of 
agricultural inputs. Birds Eye growers located 
adjacent to rivers and lakes also plant erosion-
reducing buffer zones with perennial crops such 
as clover, which provide food for pollinators.
18
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGSustainable Sourcing
As stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct, Conagra 
Brands is committed to the following and requires the 
same of its suppliers: reducing environmental impacts 
such as deforestation, greenhouse gas emissions, and 
waste generation; protecting water resources through 
restorative or conservation efforts; supporting social 
needs in the communities in which it operates though 
philanthropic investment, diversity and inclusion, human 
rights practices; and supporting traceability efforts of 
goods and services throughout the supply chain.
All Conagra goods and services are sourced in 
accordance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, 
which incorporates the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights  and the International 
Bill of Human Rights  and the principles concerning 
fundamental rights set out in the International 
Labour Organization’s Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
Conagra Brands requires its suppliers to implement 
humane procedures in support of the five freedoms 
of animal welfare at all times, including when animals 
are raised, cared for, transported, and processed. 
Conagra Brands requires that suppliers provide an 
environment that is free from stress, cruelty, abuse, 
and neglect throughout the life of the animal. Where 
noted in the Priority Ingredients and Materials  
section of this report,  Conagra Brands’ animal 
welfare policy includes compliance with additional 
commodity-specific policies, goals and standards 
for responsible animal housing and care.In fiscal year 2020, 
Conagra’s total 
ingredient buy 
by volume was 
approximately  
78% plant-based  
Our Responsible Sourcing priority list includes 15 
ingredients for which Conagra has additional ESG 
risk management strategies, including supplier 
assessments and an annual Supplier Code of 
Conduct written review and acknowledgement. 
Conagra Brands discloses deforestation risk 
management practices for paper fiber packaging, 
beef, soy, palm oil, and cocoa via the annual CDP 
Forests Questionnaire. Our 2020 CDP Forests 
scores  outperformed averages in the food and 
beverage industry for each scored commodity1, with 
Conagra responses earning a Leadership A- score 
for implementing current best practices on palm oil, 
and Management B score on other commodities 
for taking coordinated action on forests issues. 
1  CDP Score Reports Forests 2020 average performance for food & beverage processing - Cattle products (D); 
Palm Oil (C); Timber (D); Soy (D). CDP did not issue scores for cocoa disclosures in 2020.
78%
19
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGPRIORITY  
INGREDIENTSPRIMARY SOURCING 
REGIONSRISK MANAGEMENT 
PRIORITIESPRIMARY RISK  
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 
PLANT-BASED Popcorn Midwest United States Agricultural inputs and impacts 100% of supply is at low risk for contributing to agricultural runoff pollution in the Gulf of Mexico3.
Tomatoes Western United States Agricultural inputs and 
impacts; water scarcityOur tomato growers have installed drip irrigation systems on 98% of contracted acres, improving sustainable farming 
through conservation tillage, reducing nutrient and crop management chemical application rates, and reducing water use by 
nearly 15% compared to traditional furrow irrigation systems. 
Soy United States Agricultural inputs and impacts Approximately 97% of our volume comes from suppliers assessed at least annually on ESG performance as part of 
Conagra’s Supplier Excellence Program.
100% sourced from areas designated as low risk for deforestation4. As stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct, Conagra 
Brands does not directly procure soy from the Amazon, the Cerrado nor the Gran Chaco in Latin America.
Peanuts Southeast United States Agricultural inputs and impacts Peanut farmers in our supply chain have reduced fertilizer use by an industry average of 42.5%, water use by 33%, and 
pesticide use by 25% over the last two decades5.
Palm Oil Indonesia, Malaysia Ecosystem impacts, including 
deforestation; labor practices100% of our palm oil buy is covered by Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certification. 
Cocoa West Africa Ecosystem impacts, including 
deforestation; labor practices100% of total volume is sourced from suppliers that have one or more of the following: Rainforest Alliance Chain of Custody 
certification; NDPE policy (No high value conservation deforestation, no peatlands development, and no labor exploitation); 
2025 or 2030 net zero deforestation goals that include reforestation and agroforestry efforts that support biodiversity.
ANIMAL BYPRODUCTS Dairy United States Animal welfare Conagra Brands sources primarily from the U.S., where major dairy suppliers adhere to the National Dairy Farmers 
Assuring Responsible Management (FARM) Animal Care Program.  The FARM Animal Care Program establishes dairy 
animal welfare management standards for the dairy industry, which addresses dehorning and includes a ban on tail 
docking. The program utilizes 3rd party evaluators that certify that standards are being followed on the farm. 
Eggs Midwest United States Animal Welfare Approximately 80% of our volume comes from suppliers assessed at least annually on ESG performance as part of 
Conagra’s Supplier Excellence Program. 
Conagra Brands is working to directly source 100% cage free eggs by 2025  for our egg brands. Between 1–10% of our 
annual egg supply is cage free. 
ANIMAL INGREDIENTS Broiler Chickens United States Animal welfare Approximately half of our volume comes from suppliers assessed at least annually on ESG performance as part of Conagra’s 
Supplier Excellence Program or individual sustainability assessments by our in-house sustainability team.
Conagra Brands’ ambitious 2024 broiler chicken animal welfare goal  is included in our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Beef United States, Australia, 
Canada, Uruguay, Brazil Ecosystem impacts, 
including deforestationApproximately 95% of our beef is sourced from areas designated as low risk for deforestation6, Conagra Brands’ Supplier 
Code of Conduct states that Conagra Brands does not procure beef directly sourced from areas at high risk for deforestation, 
specifically the Amazon, the Cerrado and the Gran Chaco in Latin America. Our deforestation avoidance requirements are 
included in our Supplier Code of Conduct.
The 5% of our annual beef supply originating from Brazil is directly sourced from suppliers that employ continuous satellite 
monitoring for deforestation.
1 Commodities listed in order of volume sourced within material categories
2  Progress numbers are approximate, and may vary annually due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data methodology
3  Conagra risk assessment based on U.S. Geological Survey Gulf of Mexico hypoxia data and USDA Farm Service Agency data on planted popcorn acreage.
4, 6  According to data from WWF Living Forests Report,  Ceres Engage the Chain  and WRI Global Forest Watch Analysis
5 Source: USDAPriority Ingredients and Materials
Continued on next page1 2
20
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGPRIORITY  
INGREDIENTSPRIMARY SOURCING 
REGIONSRISK MANAGEMENT 
PRIORITIESPRIMARY RISK  
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 
ANIMAL INGREDIENTS Pork United States Animal Welfare 100% of raw pork is sourced in accordance with the Pork Quality Assurance Plus (PQA Plus) standards for animal welfare, 
food safety, public health, and other responsible business practices. Based on supplier public commitments, by 2022, we 
expect that 90–95% of our current supply base for pork will come from supply chains where sows are housed in groups 
rather than stalls.
Seafood Bering Sea Overfishing, ecosystem impacts 99% of our seafood is third-party certified sustainable, either via Marine Stewardship Council or the Global Aquaculture 
Alliance’s Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP) certification.
We have launched an initiative to ensure 100% of fish sourced for our Van de Kamp’s and Mrs. Paul’s products is Marine 
Stewardship Council (MSC)-certified.
PRIORITY PACKAGING  
MATERIALSPRIMARY SOURCING 
REGIONSRISK MANAGEMENT 
PRIORITIESPRIMARY RISK  
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES7 
Paper fiber Canada, United States, 
European UnionLife cycle environmental 
impactsApproximately 98% of our volume comes from suppliers assessed at least annually on ESG performance as part  
of Conagra’s Supplier Excellence Program.
Approximately 90% of virgin fiber for fiber-based packaging is sourced from suppliers utilizing Forest Stewardship Council 
(FSC) or Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) certified mills.
Per our Supplier Code of Conduct, Conagra Brands does not directly source paper fiber from areas at high risk for 
deforestation, specifically natural forests in Sumatra, Borneo, New Guinea, and the Russian Far East.
As part of packaging waste reduction efforts, we are actively working to include the How2Recycle label on all  
Conagra Brands products sold in the U.S. and Canada.
Resin-based plastic United States, with some 
foreign raw material inputsGlobal markets, life cycle 
environmental impactsOur sustainable packaging strategy includes a goal of making 100% of Conagra Brands’ plastic packaging renewable, 
recyclable or compostable by 2025.
In FY20, approximately 85% of rigid resin material spend was with Supplier Excellence Program suppliers, and 
approximately 67% of flexible resin spend was with Supplier Excellence Program suppliers. 
Metal United States, European Union, 
Canada, Japan, South KoreaGlobal markets, life cycle 
environmental impactsApproximately 96% of our volume comes from suppliers assessed at least annually on ESG performance as part of 
Conagra’s Supplier Excellence Program.
The recycling rate of steel cans is 71% in the U.S.8, which tends to be higher than for other materials.
7  Progress numbers are approximate, and may vary annually due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data methodology
8 Source: EPA  (2018 data)Continued from previous page
21
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCING1  Source: European Environment Agency report “Water Resources Across Europe—Confronting Water Scarcity and Drought,” 2009. 
22
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
SOURCE COUNTRIES 
(ALPHABETICAL)WRI WATER STRESS 
LEVEL (2020)PRIMARY RISK  
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
Australia Medium–High Minimize geographic sourcing dependency. Less than 2% of our beef supply 
originates from Australia. 
Suppliers apply water conservation practices in water stressed areas.
Brazil Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.
Canada Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.
Colombia Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.
Côte d'Ivoire Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.
Ecuador Low–Medium Annual evaluation of supplier efforts to track, disclose and manage water risk.
European Union (various) Varies, though majority of geographies 
fall in Low–MediumAnnual evaluation of supplier efforts to track, disclose and manage water risk.
Source low water risk commodity. 11% of overall European Union water use  
is for industrial purposes1, which includes metal manufacturing for Conagra’s 
steel cans.
Ghana Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.
Japan Low–Medium Annual evaluation of supplier efforts to track, disclose and manage water risk.
Malaysia Low Sourcing from low-risk regions and utilizing third-party sustainability certifications 
for palm oil.
South Korea Medium–High Annual evaluation of supplier efforts to track, disclose and manage water risk.
United States Low–Medium Annual evaluation of supplier efforts to track, disclose and manage water risk.
Uruguay Low Sourcing from low-risk regions.Supply Chain  
Water Risk
We monitor sourcing water risks through an annual 
assessment of priority materials and ingredients 
using the WRI Aqueduct global water risk mapping 
tool. Mitigation strategies for priority ingredients 
and materials include supplier water management 
assessments as part of our Supplier Excellence 
Program, and reducing our sourcing dependency 
on regions with persistent water stress. > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGSustainable Packaging 
Packaging serves a critical role in maintaining 
both food freshness and safety, but waste from 
plastic packaging is a growing issue. Conagra’s 
dedication to innovation extends into packaging 
and we are committed to nourishing the planet by 
reducing waste derived from packaging through 
thoughtful design and by using renewable and more 
readily recyclable or compostable materials. 
This year we continued to make meaningful progress 
on our goal to make 100% of our current plastic 
packaging renewable, recyclable or compostable 
by 2025.  Progress toward this ambitious goal requires 
time, investment, and partnership throughout our value chain to succeed. Our focus is on sustainable 
packaging improvements that deliver safe, affordable 
food to consumers while minimizing food waste. 
We work with the best available technology today, 
and support the technological evolution needed to 
successfully convert our diverse packaging portfolio. 
Incorporating Recycled Content
In addition to our 2025 sustainable packaging target, 
Conagra continuously evaluates opportunities to 
incorporate recycled content into our packaging 
designs while protecting food safety and quality. 
Throughout frozen portfolio, we utilize 25% post-consumer recycled content polyethylene terephthalate 
(PET) resin for all recyclable single-serve meal trays 
not yet converted to recyclable plant-based fiber. 
Avoiding Plastic
In January 2020, we declared our intent to avoid 
the use of 33 million pounds of plastic through 
further development of plant-based packaging 
options and other packaging innovations as part 
of our 2025 sustainable packaging journey. To 
date, Conagra has avoided the use of more than 
4.5 million pounds of plastic packaging, with 
one million pounds avoided in 2020 alone.
In fiscal year 2020, approximately 
84% of Conagra’s packaging 
materials by volume1 met 
our goal of being renewable, 
recyclable or compostable.
1  Estimates are based, in part, on industry-wide average weights and post-consumer recycled content levels, guided by best practices on 
environmental footprint accounting from organizations such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); progress numbers are 
approximate, and may vary annually due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data methodology.
23
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
84%Sustainable Packaging Innovation 
In September 2020, we introduced new products featuring serving bowls made from 
recyclable, plant-based fibers for Healthy Choice® Power Bowls, Hungry-Man® Double 
Meat Bowls and P .F . Chang’s® single-serve meals. By using plant-based fibers instead 
of plastic, we reduce the carbon footprint of manufacturing the bowls by 50–70%2 
across select product lines.  The expansion helped to decrease Conagra’s carbon 
footprint by 34,117 metric tons as of July 2020, equivalent to avoiding the greenhouse 
gas emissions of driving around the planet 3,399 times or 84 million miles3. 
With the introduction of new eco-efficient 
packaging for Swiss Miss® in September 2020, 
we were the first major hot cocoa brand to 
move from round canisters to a recyclable 
cube. The cube is made from recyclable plastic 
with a wraparound in-mold label and a space-
efficient tapered cube design that reduces the 
carbon footprint associated with manufacturing 
and transporting the hot cocoa containers by 
15%4. Specifically, the new design reduces 
the package’s carbon footprint by 98 metric 
tons each year due to less energy required to 
manufacture and transport the material,  while 
the new shape allows Conagra to better utilize 
space in transit, saving more than 1,000 gallons 
of diesel fuel annually from fewer truck loads 
transporting plastic tubs5. This new package 
design is initially being used for the 38-ounce 
size Swiss Miss Milk Chocolate Hot Cocoa Mix.
2, 3  Source: GaBi Packaging Calculator analysis courtesy of Footprint, accessed June 2020. 
4  GHG emission reduction related to manufacturing of the primary container was calculated 
using GaBi Packaging Calculator, courtesy of Berry Global, accessed February 2020; GHG 
emission reduction related to better pack out and reduction in truckloads of shipments 
was calculated using Berry Global’s proprietary Carbon Footprint Calculator.
5  GHG emission reduction related to better pack out and reduction in truckloads of shipments 
was calculated using Berry Global’s proprietary Carbon Footprint Calculator.
24
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGOperational Sustainability
Conagra Brands is committed to making the planet better. We focus our resources in key areas where it matters most across our value chain. Climate change, water 
resources and waste are the most material issues and, therefore, key areas of focus for us. Climate change affects agricultural industries throughout the world and 
is a fundamental challenge to food production. It affects how we source materials and how we manage energy use in our facilities and across our value chain. Water 
resources are also essential throughout our value chain. From growing our raw ingredients to preparing and enjoying our food, all of us depend upon clean water 
every day. And, preventing waste—particularly food waste—is an important measure of our operating efficiency and an important social and environmental issue.
Sustainable Development  
Awards Program
Conagra Brands’ Sustainable 
Development Awards 
program continues to be the 
cornerstone for engaging 
employees and recognizing 
their innovative ideas related 
to sustainable production 
and business practices. 
Employee teams submit 
projects for a chance to win 
grants for sustainability-
focused public service 
projects in their community. With nearly 130 entries, 
this was the 11th consecutive year for the program 
and awards were given in seven categories:
• Sustainable Brands
• Climate Change & Energy Efficiency
• Water Conservation & Wastewater Management
• Waste Reduction & Recycling
• Sustainable Operations
• People’s Choice Award
• Overall Award of Excellence
Award-winning facilities received a $5,000 grant from 
the Conagra Brands Foundation for sustainability-
focused public service projects in their community.
25
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > BETTER PLANET
 
SINCE 2009, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS HAVE:  
Conserved 3.6 billion gallons  of water
Decreased Conagra’s carbon 
footprint by 204,980 metric tons
Reduced waste by more than  
99,000 tons  
Decreased packaging materials  
by more than 32,000 tons  
Saved over $267 million  Environmental Management 
Our global Environment, Occupational Health and Safety Philosophy,  signed by President and CEO Sean Connolly, drives us towards continuous environment 
health and safety (EH&S) improvement, as measured by our leading environmental and safety indicators and implemented through our EH&S management 
approach. We are committed to complying with environmental laws and regulations and to protecting natural resources and we educate employees on five 
Conagra environmental and sustainability policy areas: Environmental, Compliance, Climate Change, Water Stewardship and Resource Conservation.
Through a robust Environmental Management System, we proactively manage environmental issues and share best practices among our facilities 
around the world. We routinely assess compliance through internal environmental audits. When compliance issues arise, our team of environmental 
professionals works closely with the affected facility to educate and develop effective action plans and track findings to resolution.
26
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > BETTER PLANET1,000,000
800,000
600,000
400,000
200,000
0.300
.250
.200
.150
.100
.050
.0Climate Change 
Climate change affects agricultural industries 
throughout the world and is a fundamental challenge 
to food production. It is dramatically affecting how we 
source raw ingredients to make our food, and how 
we manage energy use in our facilities and across 
our value chain. In February 2021, Conagra Brands’ 
new 2030 science-based climate change goals were 
validated by the Science Based Target initiative , an 
ambitious corporate climate effort leading the way 
to a zero-carbon economy. Conagra has committed 
to reducing absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions by 25% by 2030 as compared to 
our fiscal year 2020 baseline. In addition, we have 
committed to reducing Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
emissions from purchased goods and services by 
20% per metric tonne of material sourced within that 
same timeframe1. Additional data related to our newly 
validated targets will be shared in upcoming ESG 
disclosures and in next year’s Citizenship Report. 
Our 2020 CDP Climate Change response  earned a 
Leadership A- for implementing current best practices 
on climate change, outperforming the B- average 
score in the food & beverage processing industry2.
Scope 1 & 2 Emissions
In fiscal year 2020, our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions (CO₂e) were approximately 
864,513 metric tons, which is less than 2% 
increase from our fiscal year 2019. 
Scope 3 Emissions
During fiscal year 2020, we estimate the Scope 
3 GHG emissions associated with sending waste 
materials to landfills were 13,331,901 metric tons 
and that we diverted 84% of materials from landfill3. 
More information about our Scope 3 GHG emissions 
will be included in our 2021 ESG disclosures.
1 , 3 The target boundary includes biogenic emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks
2 CDP Score Report – Climate Change 2020
 27
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
Greenhouse Gas Emissions per 
Pound of Product Produced
FY19 .249
FY20 .246Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
(In metric tons)
FY19 FY20
Scope 1: 447,593 Scope 1: 424, 176
Scope 2: 4 01,18 8 Scope 2: 440,337
Total: 848,770 Total: 864,513
FY19 FY20FY19 FY20
Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions by Source
50% Purchased electricity 
and steam
41 .4% Natural gas
8.6% Other sources  
(including other  
fuels, owned 
transportation  
and refrigerants)> BETTER PLANET
SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 
AWARDS 
 
Our Fayetteville, Ark. team worked with 
SWEPCO, the facility’s electric utility provider, 
to consult on an energy efficiency survey of 
their freezer. The recommendations led to 
a reduction of 267,000 kWh of electricity 
and 151 metric tonnes of GHG emissions.
Energy Use & Efficiency 
For many of our manufacturing facilities, we conduct 
energy efficiency audits on key utility consuming 
equipment and processes to identify improvement 
opportunities and reduce energy use. Our energy 
efficiency program focuses on natural gas and electricity 
use at our owned and operated manufacturing facilities 
and warehouses; natural gas and electricity use 
makes up 91% of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 
Our cross-functional steering committee of Engineering, 
Procurement, and Environmental, Health & Safety 
teams investigates renewable energy investments 
and workstreams around reducing energy usage. We 
also track energy usage at the facility level monthly 
and provide regular reports to management.
In fiscal year 2020, 4% of our total energy consumed 
came from renewable sources. Our Science 
Based Target will push us to find new solutions to 
address our overall energy usage and efficiency.
For additional Energy Management metrics 
please refer to our 2020 SASB disclosure.  
28
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
Natural Gas Use (in mmBTU)
FY19 6,413,326
FY20 6,843,690Electricity Use (in kWh)
FY19 892,793,363
FY20 884,704,7601,200,000,000
1,000,000,000
800,000,000
600,000,000
400,000,000
200,000,000
0> BETTER PLANET
8,000,000
6,000,000
4,000,000
2,000,000
0
FY19 FY20 FY19 FY20
ST. ELMO, ILL. SOLAR FARM
An eight acre, two megawatt solar farm 
with nearly 6,000 solar panels at Conagra’s 
St. Elmo, Ill. facility generates the energy 
equivalent to what is needed to produce 
more than one-third of the salad dressings 
and syrups made there, including our 
Wish-Bone® brand.  The Renewable Energy 
Credits generated at the facility are purchased 
by a third party as part of the Illinois Shines 
initiative. Exploring green manufacturing 
solutions is just one of the many ways Conagra 
is investing in a more sustainable future.Water Risk by Conagra Manufacturing 
Location and Percent of Total Water Use
Our water risk is analyzed using the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct 
tool, which uses peer reviewed methods and the best-available data to map water 
risk globally. WRI water risk levels are determined using 12 different indicators 
including flood occurrence, access to water supplies, ecosystem impacts, and 
other metrics.
LOW RISK 
22 LOCATIONS  
49.8% OF WATER USE  
• Archbold, Ohio
• Boisbriand, Qué.
• Centralia, Ill.
• Council Bluffs, Iowa
• Dickson, Tenn.
• Dresden, Ont.
• Fayetteville, Ark.
• Fennville, Mich.
• Fort Madison, Iowa
• Imlay City, Mich.
• Lake View, Iowa 
• Lincoln, Neb.
• Louisville, Ky.
• Macomb, Ill.
• Macon, Mo.
• Mankato, Minn.
• Maple Grove, Minn.
• Milton, Pa.
• Quincy, Mass.
• Richmond, B.C. 
• Russellville, Ark.
• St. Elmo, Ill.LOW–MEDIUM RISK
18 LOCATIONS  
33.3% OF WATER USE
• Beaver Dam, Wis.
• Concord, N.H.
• Darien, Wis.
• Hagerstown, Md.
• Hamburg, Iowa
• Humboldt, Tenn.
• Indianapolis Bakery, Ind.
• Indianapolis, Ind.
• Jackson, Tenn.
• Kent, Wash. 
• Marshall, Mo.
• Menomonie, Wis.
• Milwaukee, Wis.
• Newport, Tenn.
• Reno, Nev.
• Sylvester, Ga.
• Waseca, Minn.
• Waterloo, IowaMED–HIGH RISK 
5 LOCATIONS,  
0.9% OF WATER USE
• Aurora, Colo.
• Brookston, Ind.
• Denver, Colo. 
• Rensselaer, Ind.
• Troy, Ohio
HIGH RISK
2 LOCATIONS,  
16% OF WATER USE
• Irapuato, Mex.
• Oakdale, Calif.
We are working at these high-risk 
water facilities to reduce water 
usage through capital investment 
projects and focused behavioral 
improvements. Both sites have 
set annual water goals, which 
have led to saving tens of 
millions of gallons every year.Water Withdrawal Source  
& Wastewater Discharge Destination
WATER SOURCE
• 66% Public supply 
• 29% Well water
• 4% Surface waterWATER DISCHARGE
• 53%  Publicly owned treatment facility
• 26% Direct
• 21% Land/irrigationWater Use & Water Quality 
Conagra Brands’ commitment to a Better Planet includes actively addressing water 
risk. Our water resource strategy guides how we actively manage water resources 
across our value chain, taking into account both water use and water quality. More 
than 85% of our operational water comes from areas on the lower end of the World 
Resources Institute (WRI) water risk spectrum. 
Conagra Brands has responded to the CDP Water Questionnaire since its inception. 
Our 2020 CDP Water response  earned a Leadership A- for implementing current 
best practices on water, outperforming the B average score in the food & beverage 
processing industry1.
1 CDP Score Report – Water Security 2020
29
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AWARDS 
 
Our Imlay City, Mich. team installed a closed loop, 
chilled water system on one of the facility’s pasteurizers 
to avoid using city water for cooling and then sending 
water to the drain. The new closed loop system 
reduces the facility’s total water use by 48 million 
gallons per year, and also generates substantial annual electricity 
savings, GHG emissions reductions, and cost savings.
> BETTER PLANETEliminating Waste
We are working systematically and strategically  
to reduce the amount of waste we generate in our 
facilities to capture the maximum value of the raw 
ingredients and other materials we buy. For unavoidable 
waste, we work hard to keep it out of landfills. 
For each of our facilities, the sustainability team 
within EH&S tracks landfill and material diversion data 
monthly, using more than 15 descriptive categories. 
With this detailed waste characterization, our teams 
have insight into where the biggest opportunities exist 
to derive maximum use out of our material resources. 
In fiscal year 2020, 84.4% of solid waste generated 
from our facilities were diverted to more beneficial uses 
through recycling, donations to feed people, use as 
animal feed, energy generation or land applications as 
a soil amendment. In celebrating America Recycles 
Day on November 13, 2020 Conagra honored 
eight Zero Waste manufacturing facilities  for 
diverting more than 95% of waste materials from 
landfills through proper waste separation, recycling, 
and other innovative waste reduction measures. 
Over 20% of the weight of products produced 
comes from these eight zero waste facilities1.
SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 
AWARDS 
 
Our Troy, Ohio Bakery team implemented a 
comprehensive waste tracking system and 
created a work stream to drive out loss from 
“tailing”—the over-mixing of materials before  
a planned production shutdown for sanitation, 
maintenance, or other required activities.  
The results of the new processes are very 
promising,  with total bakery yield waste 
reduced by 1.5%, and cost savings of 
$400,000 per year.
1 Includes all Conagra Brands company-owned manufacturing facilities
2, 3 FY19 waste data does not include legacy Pinnacle facilities
30
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
Waste Generation per Pound of 
Food Produced (in pounds)3
FY19 .085
FY20 .10 9
Total Waste Generation and 
percent of Waste Diverted 
from Landfill (in U.S. tons)2
FY19 237,835 85% of waste diverted
FY20 415,902 84% of waste divertedFY20 Waste Characterization
84.4% Materials diverted from landfill
15.6% Landfill
82. 1% organic materials 
diverted from landfill
39.2% Food - Animal Feed
24.9% Wastewater Sludge
6.4% Cardboard
4.6% Food - Composting
3.0% Wood (Pallets)
1.1 % Mixed Organics
1 .0% Mixed Paper
0.9% Food - Oil/Grease
0.7% Food - Donation
0.3% Food - Energy Recovery
2.3% inorganic materials 
diverted from landfill
0.8% Mixed Recyclables
0.6% Mixed Metals
0.6% Mixed Plastics
0.2% Waste-to-Energy
0.0% Aluminum> BETTER PLANET
.120
.100
.080
.060
.040
.020
.000
FY19 FY20
FY19
WASTE DIVERTED
WASTE DIVERTED
FY20500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
0Corporate Ethics
Code of Conduct
The Conagra Brands Code of Conduct  provides 
guideposts for how our employees and directors 
must conduct themselves when representing Conagra 
Brands both inside and outside the workplace. All 
new employees are required to take a course on 
our Code of Conduct as part of their onboarding 
process. We conduct annual trainings to ensure that 
employees are aware of our expectations and their 
obligations under the Code of Conduct. We also expect 
contractors, consultants, trainees, temps/agency 
workers, interns and volunteers to follow our Code 
of Conduct. Other service providers and suppliers 
must act ethically and in a manner consistent with our 
Code of Conduct and other contract requirements.
Our board of directors approved the code, and overall 
administration is handled by our Legal and Government 
Affairs department. The day-to-day administration 
of our Code of Conduct is managed by our local 
management teams. Matters relating to our Code of 
Conduct are routinely reported to the Audit/Finance 
Committee, which oversees the Code at the highest 
level and designates appropriate personnel to determine 
remedial actions in the event of a violation. In addition, 
we require that our chief executive officer, chief 
financial officer, and controller comply with a separate 
Code of Ethics for Senior Corporate Officers .Ethical Employment Practices
Conagra Brands prohibits the use of any forced or 
compulsory labor, including human trafficking and 
slavery, in all of our operations. Any work performed 
by an employee or other individual that is involuntary 
and/or performed under the threat of physical harm 
or other penalty is strictly prohibited. Conagra 
Brands also complies with state and federal child 
labor laws through our hiring policies and human 
resources practices. Our standard entry-level 
wage is equal to—and often exceeds—the local 
minimum wage in locales in which we operate.To the extent any employee objects to his or her terms 
and/or conditions of employment or sees anything 
else of concern, he or she may raise a complaint 
to his or her manager, a member of the Legal and 
Government Affairs department, and/or through 
our third-party ethics hotline 866.567.CODE (2633). 
Conagra Brands takes seriously all reports made 
through our ethics hotline and ensures that all are 
investigated properly. We have a strict non-retaliation 
policy for all good faith reports made through all 
reporting channels, including our ethics hotline.
31
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES1  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, as reported by the U.S. Department of Labor for 2018
32
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Employee Health & Safety
As we strive to achieve an injury-free workplace, 
we are focused on maintaining a strong culture 
of safety, in which all employees commit to 
protecting themselves and their colleagues.
Our health and safety team audits each of our 
facilities every two years to ensure compliance with 
safety regulations and corporate policies. The team 
documents the audit results and tracks corrective actions to ensure we hold ourselves accountable 
for providing a safe work environment. As follow-
up to any workplace injury or illness (an “incident”) 
or near miss, we require a thorough investigation 
to identify and address the root cause.
During fiscal year 2020, our Occupational Safety  
& Health Administration (OSHA) Incident Rate (OIR) 
was 1.69 incidents per 100 full-time workers, which is below the industry average of 4.21 for companies 
in the food manufacturing sector and below our 
fiscal year 2019 rate of 2.28. In fiscal year 2020, 
OSHA inspected 10 Conagra Brands facilities, 
increasing the number of inspections by 3 from the 
previous fiscal year. Only two inspections resulted 
in citations, and both citations were minor.Inclusive Workplace
Conagra Brands strives to have the most 
impactful, energized and inclusive culture in 
food, rooted in our six Timeless Values:
• Integrity:  Do the right things and do things right
• External focus: Center on consumers, 
customers, competitors and investors
• Broad-mindedness:  Seek out and 
respect varied perspectives; embrace 
collaboration and assume positive intent 
• Agility:  Convert insights into action with 
the speed of an entrepreneur
• Leadership by all:  Simplify, make decisions, 
inspire others and act like an owner
• Focus on results:  Leverage a “refuse-to-lose” 
obsession with impact and value creation
Our employees are the driving force behind 
our success. We foster an environment of 
personal and professional growth by investing 
in and developing leaders at every level.
33
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIESEmployee by Ethnicity
59% White
23% Hispanic or Latino
11% Black or  
African American
4%Asian
<1% Native Hawaiian or 
Other Pacific Islander
<1% Two or More Races
<1% American Indian or 
Alaska Native
Employee by Generation
39% Generation X  
(1965-1980)
32% Millennials  
(1981-1996)
25% Baby Boomers  
(1946-1964)
4%Generation Z  
(1997 and onwards)
<1% Silent Generation 
(1928-1945)Employee by Gender
59% Male
41% Female
<1% UndeclaredLeadership Representation  
by Gender1
Management Level
68% Male
32% Female
Middle-Manager Level
58% Male
42% Female
2025 Goal  
At least 40% of management-level  
roles held by womenBoard Representation  
by Gender3
73% Male
27% Female
Leadership Representation  
by Ethnicity2
Management Level
86% White
12% People of color
<2% Undeclared
Middle-Manager Level
86% White
12% People of color
<2% Undeclared
2025 Goal   
Double people of color representation  
in management and middle-manager  
level rolesBoard Representation  
by Ethnicity4
64% White
36% People of colorData for Employee by Gender, Employee by Generation, and Leadership Representation by Gender represents all Conagra Brands employees. 
Data for Employee by Ethnicity and Leadership Representation by Ethnicity represents U.S.-based employees only.
1 , 2 As of December 2020
3,4 As of February 2021
34
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIESDiversity & Inclusion
At Conagra, we nourish an inclusive culture that 
encourages openness, acceptance and individual 
authenticity. Diversity is more than race, gender, sexual 
orientation and disability. 
All backgrounds, perspectives, styles and opinions are 
valued and belong here, and we harness the power of 
D&I to accelerate innovation and growth.
As our business has evolved, so has our culture. We’ve 
continually found new ways of nurturing our employees’ 
lives, both at work and in the communities where they 
live. In our offices 
and manufacturing 
facilities, we’ve 
created an inclusive 
environment where 
employees from 
diverse backgrounds 
can grow their careers 
and make their mark 
on the organization. 
Our commitment to 
diversity and inclusion 
goes back many 
years, evident in our 
network of mature 
Employee Resource Groups and Supplier Diversity 
Program. Conagra’s Latino 
Leadership Employee Resource 
Group was recognized by LATINA 
Style magazine as one of the 
country’s top employee resource 
groups in 2020. We continue to 
work with our employee resource 
groups to brainstorm, learn, and 
generate ideas for our programs. 
For more than 15 years our 
Supplier Diversity Program has promoted the inclusion 
of various qualified and certified businesses to help 
drive innovation. During fiscal year 2020, we spent 
more than $385 million with over 900 certified minority, 
women, veteran-owned and small businesses across 
all procurement categories and business units.
For the sixth year in a row we’ve received a perfect 
score of 100% on the Human Rights Campaign’s 
Corporate Equality Index . Our efforts also support the 
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ Pledge , which 
Conagra Brands signed when it launched in June 2017. 
In May 2020, we 
commissioned 
independent research 
to identify our diversity, 
inclusion and equity 
strengths as well as areas 
where we need to improve. 
We also explored insights 
from other successful 
companies and leading 
organizational culture 
thought leaders. Our 
newly established D&I 
Leadership Council, 
comprised of Conagra’s 
Senior Leadership and HR Diversity & Inclusion teams, drives 
accountability and execution of 
our commitments while measuring 
and assessing our performance.
In addition, we launched Conagra’s 
new inclusive leadership development 
program in October 2020. To date, 
we have trained nearly 1,400 people 
managers in inclusive leadership 
practices. The goal of this learning 
series is to meet leaders where they are and show 
the importance of D&I as a means to succeed in the 
marketplace and achieve business objectives.
Still, we know 
we can do 
better. Candid 
conversations 
with employees 
across all levels of 
the organization 
brought us 
valuable insights. 
We’ve encouraged 
our employees 
to bring their 
true selves to 
work even in a 
remote setting 
by hosting a 
Testimonial Speaker Series, which provides a 
platform for employees to share their experiences 
and D&I journeys first-hand. These discussions 
were designed to promote acceptance, workplace 
inclusion and positive change. It’s an impactful way 
to hear how our colleagues’ unique stories helped 
influence who they are and how they see the world.
35
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIESPartnering for Greater Impact
We’ve long known that to have the maximum impact, 
we need to look beyond Conagra Brands, and we 
continued to do just that in 2020. For example, 
our work with underrepresented communities in 
Chicago expanded this past year by developing 
unique internships and mentor opportunities. In 
partnership with Impact Culinary Training and food 
and beverage incubator The Hatchery Chicago , in 
November 2020 we launched culinary internships for 
young adults from underrepresented communities 
to help jumpstart their careers in the food industry. 
The twelve-week program included hands-on, 
customized training with Conagra’s R&D team to 
enhance the participants’ culinary foundation skills 
and provided leadership development opportunities, 
including resume writing and mentorship programs.
Since 2017, Conagra Brands has supported 
SocialWorks —a non-profit founded by Chance the 
Rapper to empower youth through the arts, education, 
and civic engagement – by providing essential funds to 
strengthen curriculum, provide support materials, and 
create enrichment opportunities for students in Chicago. 
In November of 2020, SocialWorks and Conagra launched a six-week 
food packaging design 
mentorship program 
for Chicago-area high 
school students from 
diverse communities 
across the city, 
culminating with one young Chicago artist’s illustration 
being featured on the packaging for our iconic  
Duncan Hines® brand’s Holiday Baking Kit. 
Conagra Brands completely redesigned its annual 
employee philanthropy campaign in 2020, and in so 
doing, forged new partnerships with social justice 
organizations. In June 2020, we conducted a survey 
of all employees to select a social justice organization 
to be featured alongside longstanding partner 
United Way in the campaign. In October of 2020, we 
launched our global United for Change campaign, 
raising funds for the American Civil Liberties Union 
Foundation and Human Rights Watch, along with 
United Way. Beyond raising money to support vital 
community programs, United for Change provides 
educational opportunities and instills greater awareness 
of how social justice, racial justice, and equality 
issues are deeply interconnected with many of the 
root causes of poverty. Employee contributions, 
matched by the Conagra Brands Foundation, 
supported essential community programs that improve 
financial stability, alleviate root causes of poverty, 
protect human rights and advance civil liberties.
Looking Ahead
As we look to the future, we are advancing 
a comprehensive strategy built around two 
strategic goals: increase representation of people 
of color and women in management roles, and 
decrease turnover within both groups. To continue enhancing inclusion and retention within both 
groups, we will launch new mentorship programs 
and evolve our talent management programs.
To attain our goals, we have identified three key 
drivers of representation and retention: recruitment, 
advocacy and development of talent. In each of 
these areas, we have multiple strategic initiatives 
underway. Core aspects of our strategy include 
building a strong entry-level pipeline; providing 
development opportunities for underrepresented 
groups, internal and external; and committing to 
develop and advance our talent along the way.
Our goal is to create a culture of belonging, where 
everyone can experience inclusion. We want to be a 
place where people trust and respect one another. 
While we value and embrace diversity, we also 
celebrate what we all have in common—our energy 
and passion for making great food and great brands.
36
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIESCommunity Impact & Philanthropy
Food insecurity impacts people living in every county 
of the United States and according to the “Map the 
Meal Gap” study by Feeding America , 11.5% of the 
population is food insecure. Conagra Brands is deeply 
committed to making a difference on this pervasive 
societal issue, which began to impact many more 
communities during the COVID-19 pandemic when 
local food pantries saw a significant rise in neighbors 
seeking assistance. We take a holistic approach to 
address food insecurity through a variety of actions, 
including product donations and financial contributions. 
When safe and appropriate, we also leverage the power 
and passion of our employees through volunteerism. For the second consecutive year, Conagra 
has been named an honoree of The Civic 50 , 
which recognizes the 50 most community-
minded companies in the nation. An initiative 
by Points of Light, the world’s largest organization 
dedicated to volunteer service, The Civic 50 provides 
a national standard for superior corporate citizenship 
and showcases how companies can use their time, 
skills and resources to impact their communities. We 
are proud to serve the communities our employees call 
home by granting essential funds to support highly-
effective nonprofit partners across the country that 
provide people of all ages with programs and services 
that are aligned with our core focus areas:  
• Food Access:  ensuring that people have 
access to healthy, nutritious foods on a 
dependable basis, whether at food pantries, 
mobile pop-ups, congregate meal sites or more.
• Healthy Cooking:  introducing people 
to new recipes or innovative cooking 
methods to help them get excited 
about preparing wholesome meals. 
• Nutrition Education:  teaching people to 
make healthy choices when planning, 
shopping, cooking and dining out. 
• Healthy and Active Lifestyles:  encouraging 
people to enjoy the activities and foods 
that help fuel busy modern lives.
• Urban Agriculture:  increasing access to 
fresh produce grown locally in communities 
often viewed as food deserts, to spark 
interest in healthy, farm-to-fork eating.This report highlights some of the key 
initiatives and nonprofit partners we 
supported to ensure that the communities 
where we do business have continued 
access to healthy and nutritious food.
37
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Conagra Brands Total Giving FY2020
Total giving cash and in-kind  
corporate and Foundation Total giving employees Grants awarded Volunteer hours
$45,293,517 $703,169 680 2,753
38
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIESFeeding America
Conagra Brands 
Foundation  is proud 
to continue a long-
standing partnership 
with Feeding America , 
the nation’s leading hunger relief nonprofit. The 
Foundation has funded research to understand how 
hunger impacts vulnerable populations, national 
marketing campaigns to raise awareness, programs 
to improve access to nutritious food and local grants 
to increase the capacity of Feeding America’s food 
banks located in the communities where Conagra 
Brands has a presence. Conagra also provides 
significant product donations that are distributed to 
Feeding America’s network of 200 food banks.
In fiscal year 2020, the Foundation funded Feeding 
America’s Map the Meal Gap study , which looked 
at the cost of food insecurity across the United 
States. This critical study found that 11.5% of the 
population is food insecure, and that individuals 
who are food insecure face an annual food budget 
shortfall of $19.4 billion. These results represent a 
staggering amount of need and Conagra Brands 
is committed to help combat food insecurity in 
the communities our employees call home.
This year, Conagra Brands Foundation also made 
capacity-building grants to 31 Feeding America 
food banks that serve the communities where a 
Conagra facility is present. Many of the food banks 
utilized grants to increase their distribution of fresh 
produce, dairy products and other nourishing items 
by purchasing foods or building out their fresh item 
storage areas; 90% of food banks funded through 
this effort saw an increase in access to healthy 
foods. Funds also empowered organizations to 
pivot when the impacts of the pandemic hit their 
communities by employing new distribution solutions, 
such as mobile drive-through food pantries.Each September, 
Conagra Brands 
partners with 
Feeding America 
on its nationwide 
Hunger Action 
Month campaign , 
which is designed 
to mobilize the public to act on the issue of hunger. 
In our offices, we encouraged our employees to 
take individual steps to impact hunger and food 
insecurity by writing and illustrating notes for Meals 
on Wheels  recipients and joining the Greater 
Chicago Food Depository’s annual Hunger Walk .
In fiscal year 2020, we 
donated more than 30 
million pounds of food to 
Feeding America and its 
network of food banks, 
which is the equivalent 
of 25 million meals.  
For the past several years, Conagra Brands 
has participated in Walmart’s flagship Fight 
Hunger. Spark Change. program . This year, 
Walmart gave online customers the option to 
round their purchase up to the nearest dollar 
to benefit Feeding America member food 
banks, with 100% of funds raised benefitting 
the food bank serving the customer’s 
community. In addition, each eligible item 
purchased at Walmart, Sam’s Club, or online 
unlocked a donation from the supplier 
that was equivalent to a minimum of one 
meal, with donations directed to local food 
banks across the country. Conagra Brands 
committed to a gift of $1.9 million for FY20.
39
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIESEmployee Giving
MATCHING GIFTS
Conagra Brands Foundation is proud to offer a robust 
matching gifts program to our employees of up to 
$1,500 per calendar year. Eligible nonprofits are those 
whose primary purpose is to address issues such 
as: Arts and Culture; Civil Rights, Social Justice and 
Equality; Community Development; Environment; 
Health and Wellness or Nutrition Education; 
Hunger Relief and Post-Secondary Education.
We also have a Dollars for Doers program, which 
recognizes the personal volunteer service hours of 
our employees. Eligible nonprofits receive a grant 
when an employee has completed a minimum of 10 
hours of volunteer service during a calendar year. 
In fiscal year 2020 Conagra Brands employees secured 
more than $146,000 in Foundation giving for a variety 
of nonprofit organizations through these programs.UNITED WAY CAMPAIGN
The United Way  seeks to advance the common 
good in areas across the country—and around 
the world—by focusing on education, income, 
and health—the building blocks for good quality 
of life and strong communities. There are active 
United Way chapters in all 50 states, in or near the 
communities where our employees live and work. 
Conagra Brands is a long-time supporter of the United 
Way and we held yet another successful campaign 
this year, raising more than $556,000 in personal 
contributions from employees across the country. 
Employees from 45 offices and facility locations made 
donations, and our Mason, Ohio field sales office 
held the distinction of 100% participation. Employees 
also had the opportunity to contribute through in-
office fundraisers including bake sales and bingo. 
Employee Volunteerism
Conagra Brands employees are very generous with 
their time and talents and volunteer throughout the 
year for causes that are near and dear to their hearts. 
Typically, each year in April we coordinate an annual 
Month of Service, providing the opportunity for 
colleagues around the world to give back and make a 
difference through projects that directly address hunger 
and food insecurity. When the world was encouraged 
to shelter in place in March 2020 due to COVID-19, we 
were disheartened to have to postpone, and ultimately 
cancel, this beloved annual tradition to ensure we kept 
our employees safe and healthy. Despite this, we were 
amazed to see the many ways our colleagues stepped 
up to take care of their neighbors during a time of great 
need. Throughout 2020, we have highlighted many of 
these stories through a weekly feature disseminated to 
all corporate employees that we called “Bright Spots.” 
Here are just a few of these heartwarming stories:Rohit Reddy,  
VP Manufacturing  helped 
prepare packages of food 
for families impacted by 
COVID-19 at the Food Bank 
of Somerset County , where 
he and his wife Rachna 
bagged and sorted groceries.  
Emily Neu, Manager 
Category Marketing  and 
her husband Justin helped 
distribute food at a county-
wide drive sponsored by 
her local Ohio United Way 
chapter . Local agencies, 
volunteers, and the Ohio 
National Guard all came 
together to distribute food 
and supplies to community members experiencing 
food insecurity. Emily shared that the experience was 
powerful and “…humbling to see how many families 
came to the food drive in need.”  
Wendy Schuman, Executive Assistant had the perfect 
way to say thank you to the staff at her mother’s long-
term care facility: single-serve Orville Redenbacher’s® 
Movie Theater Butter Microwave Popcorn!  She 
delivered bags for everyone who works there, along 
with some cheerful Thank You signs. Wendy shared 
that the response was 
great: “they all got 
a fun, yummy treat 
and no one had to 
worry about sharing 
or compromising 
their health and 
safety—it was the 
perfect solution.”
40
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES“Hungry to Learn” Documentary
Conagra Brands Foundation was proud to sponsor 
journalist, speaker, author and philanthropist Soledad 
O’Brien’s acclaimed documentary about hunger on 
college campuses, “Hungry to Learn.”  Research 
has shown that a startling 45% of college students 
experience hunger while pursuing a degree, turning to 
food pantries, friends and food assistance programs 
to fuel their studies. This eye-opening documentary, 
directed by Geeta Gandbhir, shares the stories of 
four students facing hunger. The film also follows 
Sara Goldrick-Rab, founder of the Hope Center 
for College Community and Justice  and the 
#RealCollege movement, which seeks to facilitate 
authentic dialog about what it takes for students to 
succeed—starting with food access and safe housing.
The film was selected for DOC NYC 2019 , SXSW EDU 
2020 , and the ACT Human Rights Film Festival 2020 , 
among others. Nourish Our Community
For more than 25 years, Conagra has invited employees 
to nominate nonprofit organizations in their local 
communities to be considered for grants through the 
Nourish Our Community program . The nonprofits 
selected address domestic hunger and food insecurity, 
cooking skills, nutrition education, healthy and active 
lifestyles or urban agriculture. Conagra employees 
also play a part in the selection process with grants 
being awarded by a cross-functional committee of 
employees. Examples of this year’s grant recipients 
include organizations serving healthy snacks and 
meals to veterans in need, providing training aimed 
at reducing poverty within the LGBTQ community; 
increasing diversity and inclusion in the workforce; 
distributing healthy and nutritious snacks and dinner 
to children every day during the school year, and 
breakfast and lunch during the summer. In the fall of 
2019, we awarded 23 grants totaling $350,000 to highly 
regarded and well-established nonprofits in 11 states.
BLUE VALLEY COMMUNITY ACTION 
PARTNERSHIP (NEBRASKA)
Project: Supportive Services for Veteran Families
Blue Valley Community Action  is dedicated to 
alleviating poverty; this program is specifically aimed 
at serving veterans in need. The funding supported 
the purchase of healthy snacks and meals for the 
Community Resource and Referral Center pantry. This 
facility is adjacent to a veterans housing complex, 
which makes the program accessible to handicapped 
veterans and those without reliable transportation.Shine the Light on Hunger
The annual Shine the Light on Hunger campaign  
is a community-wide call to action, advocacy and 
education that raises awareness and funds to support 
food access programs in Nebraska and Western 
Iowa. Conagra Brands has been a proud leader of this 
project for 13 years. This year, our goal was to raise 
the equivalent of over 1.75 million meals for Food 
Bank for the Heartland , a leader in the fight against 
hunger and food insecurity in the region. Achieving a 
goal of this magnitude requires the support of the larger 
community, and we worked to engage a broad coalition 
of local partners including the Mayor’s office , Baker’s 
Supermarkets , and arts and cultural institutions to 
engage everyone in the campaign. Conagra employees 
and community members rallied together to raise 
the equivalent of more than 2 million meals, a truly 
incredible testament to the Omaha-area community’s 
commitment to taking care of each other. The Conagra 
Brands Foundation continued its annual commitment to 
match these donations dollar-for-dollar up to $100,000. 
Conagra Brands employees also stepped up to 
help support their neighbors in need as part of 
our shelter meal service day, which has become a 
treasured annual tradition. On December 10, 2019, our 
culinary team—along with 60 employees—personally 
planned, shopped, prepared, cooked, and served 
over 1,500 hearty dinners at six local shelters serving 
children, families, veterans, and other individuals.
41
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > STRONGER COMMUNITIES2020 SASB Disclosure
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, private sector standards-setting organization dedicated to enhancing the 
efficiency of the capital markets by fostering high-quality disclosure of material sustainability information that meets investor needs. Our reporting 
uses the Standard for the Processed Foods industry as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System® (SICS®). Note that some 
responses may not fully align with individual SASB metric guidance, but represent data most closely aligned with each metric.
1Note to FB-PF-130a. 1: Includes all Conagra Brands company-owned manufacturing facilities, corporate offices in Omaha and Chicago, corporate jet aircraft fuel, and company-owned and operated warehouses
2Note to FB-PF-140a. 1: Includes all Conagra Brands company-owned manufacturing facilities
42
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
TOPIC ACCOUNTING  
METRICCATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Energy 
Management(1) Total energy consumed, (2) 
percentage grid electricity, (3) 
percentage renewableQuantitative Gigajoules (GJ), 
Percentage (%)FB-PF-130a. 1 (1) 10,406, 165 gigajoules (GJ) of energy consumed  
 
(2) 31% from grid electricity  
 
(3) 4% renewable energy1 
Water 
Management(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) 
total water consumed, percentage 
of each in regions with High or 
Extremely High Baseline Water 
Stress Quantitative Thousand cubic 
meters (m.), 
Percentage (%)FB-PF-140a. 1 (1) 18,240,941 thousand cubic meters (m) of water withdrawn  
 
(2) 16% in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress2
Number of incidents of 
non-compliance associated with 
water quantity and/or quality 
permits, standards, and 
regulationsQuantitative Number FB-PF-140a.2 Conagra Brands had zero (0) incidents of non-compliance. 
Description of water management 
risks and discussion of strategies 
and practices to mitigate those 
risksDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a FB-PF-140a.3 The primary tools leveraged by Conagra Brands to identify, assess and respond to water-related risks include: WRI Aqueduct 
Water Risk Atlas – Food & Beverage weighting scheme; in-house risk-mapping; a Supplier Excellence Program sustainability 
assessment; and international media resources.
Conagra Brands’ sustainability team annually reviews the Aqueduct Water Risk data for our manufacturing locations, overlaying 
production and water withdrawal data with internal company knowledge to identify and monitor water use at high-risk sites. If a 
facility is designated as high-risk based on this assessment, water conservation efforts are prioritized at that location, in addition 
to other business drivers of decision-making. 
Conagra Brands’ Supplier Excellence Program broadly measures the performance of our largest and most strategic suppliers on a 
diverse set of criteria, including social and environmental metrics. Water-related questions included in our Supplier Excellence 
Program assessment include whether suppliers respond publicly to the CDP Water Security Questionnaire, have water reduction 
goals, or implement sustainability policies that address agriculture or other value chain water use. The scoring system allows us 
to quantitatively measure supplier progress over time, and Conagra Brands uses this information to enhance business 
partnerships. For more information, see our 2020 CDP Water disclosure at www.cdp.net . 
Food Safety Global Food Safety Initiative 
(GFSI) audit (1) non-conformance 
rate and (2) associated corrective 
action rate for (a) major and (b) 
minor non-conformancesQuantitative Rate FB-PF-250a. 1 There was one (1) major non-conformance identified in fiscal year 2020. This translated to a major non-conformance rate of 0.02. 
There were 260 minor non-conformances in fiscal year 2020, resulting in a minor non-conformance rate of 7.4. Corrective actions 
were implemented for 100% of the major and minor non-conformances identified and submitted to and accepted by the GFSI 
certifying body for confirmation.> 2020 SASB DISCLOSURE43
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
TOPIC ACCOUNTING  
METRICCATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Food Safety Percentage of ingredients sourced 
from Tier 1 supplier facilities 
certified to a Global Food Safety 
Initiative (GFSI) recognized food 
safety certification programQuantitative Percentage (%) by 
costFB-PF-250a.2 We require our suppliers to use an accredited certification body to audit against Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) standards 
annually. Approximately 80% of our Tier 1 suppliers have completed GFSI-recognized certification, which is the relevant metric we 
currently have available to report.
(1) Total number of notices of 
food safety violation received, (2) 
percentage correctedQuantitative Number, 
Percentage (%)FB-PF-250a.3 Conagra Brands had zero (0) food safety violations.
(1) Number of recalls issued and 
(2) total amount of food product 
recalledQuantitative Number, Metric 
tons (t)FB-PF-250a.4 (1) Six (6) recalls in fiscal year 2020, with none resulting in injuries or illness  
 
(2) Approximately 227 metric tons (t) of food product recalled
Health & Nutrition Revenue from products labeled 
and/or marketed to promote 
health and nutrition attributesQuantitative Reporting 
currencyFB-PF-260a. 1 Revenue from products labeled and/or marketed to promote health and nutrition attributes is approximately $8.4 billion.
Discussion of the process to 
identify and manage products and 
ingredients related to nutritional 
and health concerns among 
consumersDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a FB-PF-260a.2 Conagra Brands maintains a number of cross-functional groups, including an Attribute Steering Committee and Natural Council, 
that meet regularly to identify and manage products and ingredients the may be related to nutrition, health and wellness concerns 
among consumers. The Committees includes internal subject matter experts from legal, regulatory, labelling, nutrition, 
sustainability, consumer demand, product development, communications, and other functions relevant to identifying and 
managing trending nutritional and health food attributes and any related concerns, including but not limited to: sustainable 
proteins, additives, potential allergens, sodium, sugar, and product disclosures. The Committees guide nutrition, health and 
wellness attribute development and communications for product packaging, brand websites, e-commerce and other channels. 
Product Labeling  
& MarketingPercentage of advertising 
impressions (1) made on children 
and (2) made on children 
promoting products that meet 
dietary guidelinesQuantitative Percentage (%) FB-PF-270a. 1 Conagra Brands participates in the Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) of the Council of Better Business 
Bureaus. Pursuant to our CFBAI pledge, Conagra Brands devotes 100% of our national advertising directed to children under 12 
years of age to products that meet the CFBAI’s strict uniform nutrition criteria, and does not advertise to children under the age of 
six. In line with our CFBAI commitments, programming is deemed “ child-directed” if it has an audience of 35% or more children 
under the age of 12.
Revenue from products labeled as 
(1) containing genetically 
modified organisms (GMOs) and 
(2) non-GMOQuantitative Reporting 
currencyFB-PF-270a.2 Conagra Brands fully supports the National Bioengineered Food Disclosure Law, which requires food companies to include 
information about GMOs on product labels and online. Now that the final National Bioengineered Food Disclosure Standard has 
been issued by the USDA, we intend to comply fully and are on track to include information about GMOs on product labels and 
online by the January 2022 compliance deadline.
Number of incidents of 
non-compliance with industry or 
regulatory labeling and/or 
marketing codesQuantitative Number FB-PF-270a.3 Three (3) incidents of non-compliance with federal labeling codes, all of which were promptly addressed with appropriate 
corrective action. Conagra Brands takes compliance seriously and has internal teams who evaluate the company’s labels and 
marketing to ensure they comply with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements. To the extent the company learns of a 
situation of non-compliance, it is addressed immediately.
Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with labeling and/or 
marketing practicesQuantitative Reporting 
currencyFB-PF-270a.4 Conagra Brands is and has been a party to a number of legal proceedings challenging various product claims made in the 
Company’s product labeling. To the extent loss contingencies related to any of these matters could be deemed material to the 
company’s financial statements, they would be disclosed in Conagra Brands’ annual 10-K and/or quarterly 10-Q SEC reports.> 2020 SASB DISCLOSURE44
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
TOPIC ACCOUNTING  
METRICCATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Packaging 
Lifecycle 
Management(1) Total weight of packaging, (2) 
percentage made from recycled 
and/or renewable materials, and 
(3) percentage that is recyclable, 
reusable, and/or compostableQuantitative Metric tons (t), 
Percentage (%)FB-PF-410a. 1 (1) Estimated 666,380 metric tons (t) of packaging procured by Conagra Brands  
 
(2) Estimated 47% made from recycled or renewable materials  
 
(3) Estimated 72% made from recyclable materials  
 
Estimates are based, in part, on industry-wide average weights and post-consumer recycled content levels, guided by best 
practices on environmental footprint accounting from organizations such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Discussion of strategies to reduce 
the environmental impact of 
packaging throughout its lifecycleDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a FB-PF-410a.2 Conagra Brands has committed to make 100% of our current plastic packaging renewable, recyclable or compostable by 2025. In 
addition, we apply key principles of sustainable packaging across packaging formats and materials. These sustainable packaging 
principles provide for adoption of more fiber-based packaging, reduction in material use, and packaging redesigns to support 
recyclability. 
Environmental & 
Social Impacts of 
Ingredient Supply 
ChainPercentage of food ingredients 
sourced that are certified to 
third-party environmental and/or 
social standards, and percentages 
by standardQuantitative Percentage (%) by 
costFB-PF-430a. 1 100% of Conagra Brands’ suppliers are required to follow our Supplier Code of Conduct , which includes third-party standards for 
human rights such as the International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in the 
International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In addition to our Supplier Code of 
Conduct requirements:
• 100% of purchased palm oil is Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)-certified
• 100% of fish sourced for our Van de Kamp’s and Mrs. Paul’s products is Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)-certified
• 100% of major U.S. dairy suppliers to Conagra Brands adhere to the National Dairy Farmers Assuring Responsible 
Management (FARM) Animal Care Program 
• Select ingredient volumes are USDA Organic-certified, though we do not currently have volume data
Suppliers' social and 
environmental responsibility audit 
(1) non-conformance rate and (2) 
associated corrective action rate 
for (a) major and (b) minor 
non-conformancesQuantitative Rate FB-PF-430a.2 Conagra Brands’ Supplier Excellence Program broadly measures the performance of our largest and most strategic suppliers on a 
diverse set of criteria, including social and environmental metrics. Our risk management team monitors our entire supplier list 
daily for regulatory violations and legal actions, including those on regulatory corruption, social and environmental compliance. 
There were zero (0) incidents of non-compliance found related to environmental compliance, child labor and human trafficking, 
which translates to a non-conformance rate of 0.0.
Ingredient 
SourcingPercentage of food ingredients 
sourced from regions with High or 
Extremely High Baseline Water 
StressQuantitative Percentage (%) by 
costFB-PF-440a. 1 Based on WRI's Aqueduct Analysis, 1% of our responsible sourcing priority ingredients are directly sourced from geographies 
rated as High water stress areas. Our priority ingredients represent those we deem most material for ESG risk analysis based on 
global risk trends and volumes sourced. 
List of priority food ingredients 
and discussion of sourcing risks 
due to environmental and social 
considerationsDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a FB-PF-440a.2 Conagra Brands’ priority responsible sourcing list is based on ESG risk assessments of food ingredients and packaging materials 
with input from subject matter experts within our R&D, sustainability, procurement, risk management and other relevant teams, as 
well as third-party research identifying crops and sourcing geographies that may be at higher risk for environmental, social or 
governance risks. Conagra Brands mitigates ESG risks through requirements in our Supplier Code of Conduct, and individual ESG 
assessments and engagements of our largest suppliers as part of our Supplier Excellence Program. The Supplier Excellence 
Program applies to our top direct material suppliers, which includes major suppliers for our responsible sourcing priority 
ingredients.> 2020 SASB DISCLOSURE45
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
TOPIC ACCOUNTING  
METRICCATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Ingredient 
SourcingList of priority food ingredients 
and discussion of sourcing risks 
due to environmental and social 
considerationsDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a FB-PF-440a.2 As part of our Supplier Excellence Program, Conagra Brands assesses key suppliers at least annually on ESG risk-related 
performance and disclosure. Metrics include public supplier response to CDP Water, Forest and Investor questionnaires; annual 
sustainability disclosures in accordance with GRI or SASB frameworks; and policy/commitments adequately addressing 
sustainability risks specific to the supplier’s industry. The annual sustainability assessment is supplemented by quarterly 
performance discussions and risk analyses, and we work in partnership with our suppliers to address any issues or gaps. 
Conagra Brands’ priority ingredients and additional risk management practices are listed in alphabetical order below: 
• Beef: Risk management priorities include ecosystem impacts such as deforestation. To mitigate these risks, Conagra Brands’ 
Supplier Code of Conduct states that Conagra Brands does not procure beef directly sourced from areas at high risk for 
deforestation, specifically the Amazon, the Cerrado and the Gran Chaco in Latin America.
• Broiler chickens: Risk management priorities include animal welfare. To mitigate these risks, by 2024, Conagra Brands aims to 
source 100% of chicken used in products from either Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) or Global 
Animal Partnership (GAP)-approved breeds or strains; offer improved environments that meet GAP standards for better lighting, 
litter quality and other enrichments; provide birds with more space to perform natural behaviors, including a stocking density 
of no greater than six pounds per square foot and no use of broiler cages; employ a multi-step controlled atmosphere 
processing system and avoid live-shackling or live-dumping; and track supplier compliance via third-party auditing.
• Cocoa: Risk management priorities include ecosystem impacts such as deforestation and labor practices. To mitigate these 
risks, Conagra Brands’ Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to reduce environmental impacts such as deforestation 
and avoid causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts through their own activities and address such impacts 
when they occur and seek to prevent or mitigate adverse human rights impacts that are directly linked to their operations, 
products or services by their business relationships, even if they have not contributed to those impacts.
• Dairy: Risk management priorities include animal welfare. To mitigate these risks, Conagra Brands sources primarily from the 
U.S., where major dairy suppliers adhere to the National Dairy Farmers Assuring Responsible Management (FARM) Animal 
Care Program. 
• Eggs: Risk management priorities include animal welfare. To mitigate these risks, Conagra Brands has made an ambitious 
commitment to source 100% cage free eggs throughout U.S. and Canada operations by 2025.
• Palm oil: Risk management priorities include ecosystem impacts such as deforestation, labor practices, and geographic water 
scarcity. To mitigate these risks, 100% of our palm oil buy is covered by Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) 
certification.
• Peanuts: Risk management priorities include agricultural inputs and impacts. To mitigate these risks, peanut farmers in our 
supply chain have reduced fertilizer use by an industry average of 43%, water use by 33%, and pesticide use by 25% over 
approximately the last two decades.
• Popcorn: Risk management priorities include agricultural inputs and impacts. To mitigate these risks, we source from 
geographies at low risk for contributing to agricultural runoff pollution in the Gulf of Mexico, according to internal assessments.
• Pork: Risk management priorities include animal welfare. To mitigate these risks, 100% of pork sourced in accordance with 
the Pork Quality Assurance®® Plus (PQA Plus) standards for animal welfare, food safety, public health, and other responsible 
business practices.
• Seafood: Risk management priorities include overfishing and ecosystem impacts. To mitigate these risks, 100% of fish used in 
Van de Kamp’s and Mrs. Paul’s brands is third-party certified sustainable via Marine Stewardship Council certification.  > 2020 SASB DISCLOSURE46
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS
TOPIC ACCOUNTING  
METRICCATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Ingredient 
SourcingList of priority food ingredients 
and discussion of sourcing risks 
due to environmental and social 
considerationsDiscussion and 
Analysisn/a FB-PF-440a.2 • Soy: Risk management priorities include deforestation, agricultural inputs and impacts. To mitigate these risks, 100% of soy is 
sourced from areas designated as low risk for deforestation according to data from WWF Living Forests Report, Ceres Engage 
the Chain, and WRI Global Forest Watch Analysis. Conagra Brands’ Supplier Code of Conduct states that Conagra Brands does 
not directly procure soy from the Amazon, the Cerrado nor the Gran Chaco in Latin America.
• Tomatoes: Risk management priorities include agricultural inputs and impacts and water scarcity. To mitigate these risks, 
tomato growers in Conagra Brands’ supply chain have installed drip irrigation systems on 97% of contracted acres, improving 
sustainable farming through conservation tillage, reducing nutrient and crop management chemical application rates, and 
reducing water use by nearly 15% compared to traditional furrow irrigation systems. In addition, Conagra Brands’ Oakdale, 
California tomato processing facility cleans and recycles water used to process tomatoes into farm irrigation water, supporting 
conservation throughout our supply chain.
For more information on risk assessment and management strategies related to climate change, water stress and deforestation, 
see our 2020 CDP disclosures on www.cdp.net . 
ACTIVITY METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE  RESPONSE 
Weight of products sold Quantitative Metric tons (t) FB-PF-000.A Weight of products produced is approximately 3.5M metric tons (t)3
Number of production facilities Quantitative Number FB-PF-000.B 474 
3Note to FB-PF-000.A: Includes all Conagra Brands company-owned manufacturing facilities
4Note to FB-PF-000.B: Includes all Conagra Brands company-owned manufacturing facilitiesFor more information, please contact Conagra Brands Investor Relations: IR@conagra.com> 2020 SASB DISCLOSUREReporting  
Parameters
Thank you for your interest in Conagra 
Brands’ 2020 Citizenship Report.
All data in this report cover the company’s fiscal year 
2020, which ended May 31, 2020, unless otherwise 
specified. Our reporting covers all company-owned 
facilities. APEX Companies, LLC completed an 
independent verification  of environmental data 
included in the Better Planet section of this report. 
Other data included in the report have not been 
audited by a third party; however, the report does 
include the best information available through our 
existing data management systems. Additional 
information about our company is available on 
our website, www.conagrabrands.com.
47
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > ABOUT THIS REPORT222 Merchandise Mart Plaza
Suite 1300
Chicago, IL 60654
©Conagra Brands, Inc. All rights reserved.Contact
For questions regarding this report, please contact 
Katya Hantel  |  Sustainable Development  
katya.hantel@conagra.com   
(312) 549-5843
48
CONAGRA BRANDS    2020 CITIZENSHIP REPORTCONTENTS > ABOUT THIS REPORT