Creating 
Lasting  
Value
BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY   
PERFORMANCE REPORT 2021
02
 Content
Creating Lasting Value
2021 at a Glance  ............................................................................................................ p.04
CEO Interview  ................................................................................................................ p.06
Creating Value Throughout the Life Cycle of Aluminium  ................................................ p.08
Our Business Units  ........................................................................................................ p.10
A Global Sector Leader  .................................................................................................. p.11
Putting Sustainability at the Heart of Our Strategy  ........................................................ p.12
Our Values  ..................................................................................................................... p.13
Governance .................................................................................................................... p.14
Celebrating 10 Years of Constellium  .............................................................................. p.20
Prioritizing Environment, Health, and Safety  ................................................................. p.22
Manufacturing Excellence  .............................................................................................. p.24
Business Report
Packaging ...................................................................................................................... p.28
Automotive  ..................................................................................................................... p.30
Aerospace  ...................................................................................................................... p.32
Transportation, Industry, and Defense  ........................................................................... p.34
Sustainability Report
Sustainability Highlights  ................................................................................................. p.38
Assessing Material Sustainability Risks  ......................................................................... p.40
Using Life Cycle Assessments to Understand Environmental Impacts  ......................... p.42
Keeping Abreast of Market Regulatory Changes  .......................................................... p.43
Sustainability Targets  ..................................................................................................... p.44
Developing Products With Environmental Benefits  ....................................................... p.46
Boosting Aluminium Recycling  ....................................................................................... p.49
Working to Ensure Customer Satisfaction  ..................................................................... p.51
Hiring, Training, and Engaging Top Talent  ..................................................................... p.53
Promoting Gender Diversity  ........................................................................................... p.55
Giving Back to Our Communities  ................................................................................... p.57
Respecting Human Rights  ............................................................................................. p.59
Curtailing Our Landfilled Waste  ..................................................................................... p.60
Reducing Our Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions  ............................................ p.61
Decreasing Air Emissions and Managing Water  ............................................................ p.65
Reinforcing Our Approach to Responsible Procurement  ............................................... p.66
Proudly Backing the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative  .................................................. p.68
Performance report
Financial Statements  ..................................................................................................... p.71
Sustainability Performance  ............................................................................................ p.76
GRI ................................................................................................................................. p.84
Memberships  ................................................................................................................. p.91
Report of the Independent Third Party  ........................................................................... p.92Constellium’s non-
financial performance 
statement (“déclaration 
de performance extra-
financière”), included in 
this report (as specified on 
page 75), was verified by 
an independent third party, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Audit. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Audit verified compliance 
of our statement with the 
provisions of the French 
Commercial Code (article 
R. 225-105), along with the 
fairness of the information 
provided in our statement, 
such as key performance 
indicators and measures 
taken to address risks 
(article R. 225-105 I, 3, and 
II of the French Commercial 
Code). The work of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Audit was performed 
in accordance with the 
provisions of articles 
A. 225-1 et seq. of the 
French Commercial 
Code, determining 
the conditions under 
which an independent 
third party performs its 
engagement, and with 
the professional guidance 
of the French Institute 
of Statutory Auditors 
(“CNCC”) applicable to 
such engagements, as 
well as with ISAE 3000 
assurance engagements 
other than audits or 
reviews of historical 
financial information. 
The verification report of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Audit (included on page 92 
of this report) describes in 
detail the verification work 
performed.
This report covers our Company’s business and sustainability achievements during fiscal year 2021, and was assembled before the 
recent armed conflict in Ukraine. Its content, including business and market updates, financial guidance, EHS, and sustainability policies 
and related action plans, do not incorporate any potential impact that this current crisis may have on our business and operations.Y ears
Ten years ago, we forged Constellium from 
the DNA of aluminium pioneers.  We drew up 
a Sustainability Roadmap with ambitious targets, 
inspired by the properties of this light, strong, endlessly 
recyclable metal. Since then, Constellium has become 
an industry leader, achieving impressive results in 
business and sustainability. As we enter our second 
decade, our mission remains the same: to design 
and manufacture game-changing alloys for a circular 
economy and a brilliant new day. 04
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
2021 at a Glance
Constellium is an industry leader in the design, production, and 
recycling of aluminium products and solutions. While we just 
celebrated the 10th anniversary of our brand, our story can be 
traced back more than a century. 
We supply aluminium 
coils for the production  
of beverage cans.

We can recycle the equivalent  
of 32 billion cans a year in our 
facilities at Muscle Shoals, Alabama 
and Neuf-Brisach, France.  Our aerospace plates and Airware® 
solutions can be found on aircraft and 
in space programs.

Airware® technology supports NASA’s 
Artemis deep space exploration program.We help auto manufacturers 
produce lighter, safer, and more 
efficient vehicles, as well  
as electric vehicles with  
greater range. 

Constellium is a proud supplier for the new 
Ford F-150 Lightning Electric Truck.Lightweight, strong, and 
endlessly recyclable, 
aluminium is the metal 
of choice for modern 
life, its applications 
ranging from beverage 
cans to space travel. By 
constantly innovating 
to create value for 
our customers, we 
are shaping a lighter, 
safer, more sustainable 
tomorrow for all. 
€135 M
Free Cash  
Flow
€581 M
Adjusted  
EBITDA1
3.4x
net debt/Adjusted 
EBITDA
 1 Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure.” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income,” see the 20-F form.05
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
Our commitment 
to sustainability 
was recognized by 
several independent 
organizations, with a 
Platinum rating from 
Ecovadis, an AA  rating 
from MSCI2, an A  rating 
from CDP 2021 Supplier 
Engagement, and 
inclusion in various 
independent media 
surveys of sustainability 
and diversity. 
Sustainability is at the core of our business. We are committed to continuing to grow  
as a safe, sustainable, and socially responsible company. This means reducing our 
emissions and our waste, investing in the safety and diversity of our people, supporting  
our communities, and adhering to responsible governance principles. 

We are committed to recruiting and 
retaining a qualified and diverse pool 
of talent, ensuring opportunities for 
everyone to learn and grow. Safety is our highest priority.  
Our safety results are among the best  
in the industry, and we remain committed 
to continuous improvement.
37%
We reduced 
our landfilled 
production 
waste by  37% 
vs 201562%
of our annual  
supplier spending  
has been assessed  
by independent  
third parties
2. The use by Constellium of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, 
recommendation, or promotion of Constellium by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are 
trademarks or service marks of MSCI.06
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
“Despite a challenging 
environment, 2021 was  
a year of growth and 
improvement for 
Constellium, thanks to 
great execution by our 
teams, solid cost control, 
and improved operational 
performance.” 
Message from 
Jean-Marc 
Germain, Chief 
Executive OfficerThis year, Constellium celebrated its 10th anniversary. Ten years 
of hard work, innovation, and commitment, resulting in significant 
growth. In a decade, we have strengthened our position as a 
global industry leader, broadened our customer portfolio, and 
entered new markets. We have offered ever-more innovative and 
responsible solutions, thanks to our integrated industrial and R&D 
platform, and our diverse and talented workforce. We invested in 
people and equipment: our workforce has expanded from 9,000 
to 12,000 employees, while our footprint has increased from 22 
to 27  manufacturing sites. We constantly endeavor to promote 
recycling, improve production processes, further lightweight 
products, and reduce the environmental footprint of aluminium 
products over their complete life cycle.
A year of exceptional operational performance  
with record results
The year 2021 was another year of challenges and uncertainties 
brought on by the Covid-19 crisis. Despite this environment, 2021 was 
also a year of growth and improvement for Constellium. We achieved 
record adjusted EBITDA of €581 million. Two of our business units, 
Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products (P&ARP) and Automotive 
Structures and Industry (AS&I), delivered record results, thanks to 
strong market demand from our packaging and industrial customers. 
We faced increasing inflationary pressures across the business, 
continued weakness in aerospace demand, semiconductor shortages 
in automotive, and other supply chain challenges. These were offset 
by great execution from our teams, solid cost control, and improved 
operational performance, supported by our Horizon 22 program.
We generated strong Free Cash Flow of €135 million, reduced our 
leverage to 3.4x, and stay committed to achieving our leverage target 
of 2.5x. We have delivered on our commitments in a challenging 
environment, and I am very pleased with how our team remained 
steadfastly focused on the execution of our strategy. 
Growing with our customers
We continued to partner with our customers to offer the most 
innovative, high-performance, and environmentally friendly 
solutions. Together, we are responding to society’s demand for a 
sustainable tomorrow, exploring all the possibilities found in the 
inherent advantages of aluminium, a light but strong metal that is 
fully and easily recyclable. 
The list of our collaborations in 2021 extends from supplying some 
of the most iconic automotive models, including the Ford Bronco and 
the Audi e-tron® GT, to going to Mars with the Orion spacecraft. With 
aluminium cans becoming a preferred beverage package, we have 
also secured long-term, strategic agreements with our packaging 
customers, reflecting the substantial value that we bring to this 
market as a major domestic supplier in both Europe and the U.S.07
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
Valuing our employees
Our 12,000 employees’ expertise, skills, and dedication have made 
us who we are today. They once again demonstrated their talent 
and their engagement in 2021. Our first priority will always be their 
health and safety. We remain vigilant as the pandemic continues to 
affect our communities, and we continue to focus on our key safety 
initiatives, including our Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) program, and 
our Caring for Each Other training program, which we delivered to 
almost all of our employees. We have some of the best results in the 
industry: 2021 was the second consecutive year with a Recordable 
Case Rate2 below 1.9, and  12 of our sites reached milestones of more 
than 1  million work hours without a recordable accident.
We support our employees’ advancement, while embracing diversity 
and inclusion. We have created development and training programs, 
such as mentoring initiatives for our women employees, and a new 
leadership program for 500 of our mid-level managers, with a focus 
on soft skills to promote a common management culture. At the same 
time, we have put systems in place to recruit and retain a diverse and 
qualified workforce, and to promote a safe and inclusive work culture.
A new sustainability roadmap
This year, we are reporting on our 2021 achievements, continuing 
the practice started with our first sustainability report in 2012. I am 
very proud of our results, which demonstrate our steady commitment 
and the outstanding efforts of our facilities. We have achieved, or 
are on course to achieve, most of the targets we set. “We have achieved,  
or are on course to achieve, 
most of our sustainability 
targets, and are preparing to 
announce our ESG strategy 
and roadmap for 2030.”In 2021, we issued two series of sustainability linked bonds (SLB) - a 
first in the metals sector— linked to increasing our recycling capacity 
and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions intensity. A year later, 
we are on track to reach our ambitious targets.
Now we are preparing to announce our Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) strategy and roadmap for 2030. In spring 2022, we 
will set new targets and initiatives, including reducing greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, increasing recycling, and promoting diversity and 
inclusion. I am very excited about this next step of our sustainability 
journey, as we strive to enable the circular economy of tomorrow.
Looking forward
I take great satisfaction in what we have accomplished over the last 
decade, and I want to thank all those who have accompanied us 
thus far—our dedicated and talented employees, our long-standing 
customers, and our partners and communities.
Of course, what matters now is what we do next. Safety, excellence, 
leadership, innovation, and sustainability are all priorities that we will 
continue to live by as we grow and shape the future of aluminium. 
We will keep delivering on our strategy with the same commitment to 
capital discipline, Free Cash Flow generation, and deleveraging. In 
the spring of 2022, we are holding our Analyst Day, the first one since 
2018. I expect to reinstate our long-term guidance then, and to detail 
our 2030 sustainability strategy.
I am proud of the company we have built in this first decade. As we 
look towards the future, I am confident that the best of Constellium 
is yet to come.
2. Our Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, 
restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per 1 million hours worked, including by our contractors.2022 TARGETS
€600-620 M
Adjusted EBITDA1€150 M 
Free Cash Flow
1. Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure.” For a reconciliation of this measure  
to “Net Income,” see the 20-F form.Commitment to the United  
Nations Global Compact
For the 10th consecutive year we support the Ten Principles 
of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas 
of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. ◄  ◄
Introduction08 - 09
Creating Value 
Throughout the 
Life Cycle of 
Aluminium
Our contribution to the 
aluminium value chain 
is shown in white01 Extracting,  
refining, and 
smelting
To produce the world’s most 
widely used non-ferrous metal, 
mined bauxite is refined into 
alumina, then pure aluminium 
is extracted via the Hall-Héroult 
electrochemical process.
05 Collecting  
and sorting
Aluminium recycling makes 
good economic and ecological 
sense. We have rigorous 
processes in place to collect 
and sort scrap produced at 
our own and our customers’ 
facilities. Efficient collection and 
sorting systems are particularly 
critical for the effective 
recycling of end-of-life scrap.02 Casting, rolling,  
and extrusion
We add other metals to molten 
aluminium to create customized 
alloys, and cast them into 
molded products, ingots, billets, 
and slabs. We extrude billets to 
make products such as Crash 
Management Systems. We roll 
slabs into plates, sheets, and 
coils, to be used for cans, car 
hoods, airplane wings, and 
more.03 Product 
design and 
manufacturing
Experts at our C-TEC 
Technology Center, Plymouth 
hub, and Brunel University 
Technology Center work with 
our customers to design 
and develop innovative 
and sustainable aluminium 
solutions. 
06 Recycling
We recycle scrap from our 
processes, our customers’ 
processes, and at the end of 
a product’s life. We seek to 
improve recycling through 
partnerships with stakeholders, 
since aluminium can be 
endlessly recycled and retain its 
material properties. 04 Product  
use
Our long-standing customers, 
primarily in the aerospace, 
packaging, and automotive 
sectors, use our products 
and solutions in a range of 
applications for improved 
strength, durability, lightness, 
and reduced fuel consumption.10
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
Our Business Units
Packaging and 
Automotive Rolled 
Products Aerospace  
and TransportationAutomotive Structures 
and Industry 
Provides aluminium sheets and coils 
for packaging applications (beverage 
and food cans, closures, foilstock, 
cosmetics), specialty products 
(functional surfaces and industry 
products), as well as automotive 
solutions, including Auto Body Sheet. 
In addition, the business unit recycles 
end-of-life products, such as used 
beverage cans.Provides technologically advanced 
aluminium alloys with applications 
across the global aerospace, 
transportation, industry, and defense 
sectors. This business unit offers 
a wide range of products including 
plates, sheets, extrusions, and 
precision sand castings. Aerospace 
and Transportation also provides 
tailored solutions and value-added 
services to its customers, such as 
pre-machining and customer scrap 
recycling.Provides advanced solutions for the 
global automotive industry, including 
Crash Management Systems (CMS), 
structural components, battery 
enclosures, and other safety parts 
and extrusions. This business unit 
also manufactures a wide range of 
hard and soft alloy extrusions, as 
well as large profiles for road and 
rail transportation, energy, and other 
industrial applications.
1. Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure.” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income,” see the 20-F form.Revenue  
(in millions of euros)
Adjusted EBITDA1 
(in millions of euros)3,149
20192,734
20203,698
2021
273
2019291
2020344
2021Revenue  
(in millions of euros)
Adjusted EBITDA1 
(in millions of euros)1,462
20191,025
20201,142
2021
204
2019106
2020111
2021Revenue  
(in millions of euros)
Adjusted EBITDA1 
(in millions of euros)1,351
20191,167
20201,383
2021
106
201988
2020142
2021+11% +19% +35%
+18%
+5%+63%Employees
Switzerland 
6%Eastern Europe  
and other regions 
14%
Germany 
22%United States 
24%France  
34%
~12,000
employees11
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
  Manufacturing sites  
  R&D centers
  Map not to scaleWorldwide
A Global Sector Leader
5.9
4.96.2Revenue  
(in billions of euros)
562
465581Adjusted EBITDA1 
(in millions of euros)Europe
2020
20202019
20192021
2021
1. Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure.” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income,” see the 20-F form.+26%
+25%12
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
carbon emissions. We intend to continue to invest in our R&D and 
technological capabilities and develop a high value-added and 
responsible product portfolio.
2. Increase Customer Connectivity
We regard our relationships with our customers as partnerships in 
which we work closely together to leverage our unique knowledge 
of the attributes of aluminium, our industry leading R&D and 
technological capabilities, and our integrated industrial platform to 
develop customized solutions. Our diverse teams globally aim to 
deepen our ties with our customers by consistently providing best-
in-class quality, sustainable products and services, and joint product 
development projects.
3. Optimize Margins and Asset Utilization Through 
Rigorous Product Portfolio Management
We are highly focused on maximizing the throughput of our facilities 
to increase the metric tons and profitability per machine hour. 
We believe there are significant opportunities to do so, through 
rigorous focus on the products we choose to make and optimizing 
the throughput of these products in our facilities. We also intend to 
continue to increase our recycling activities, which will result in more 
responsible, sustainable, and profitable products.
4. Strictly Control Cost, Continuously Improve, and 
Manage Resources Responsibly
We believe that there are significant opportunities to reduce our 
operating costs and improve our operations by implementing 
manufacturing excellence initiatives; metal management 
programs; and other cost reduction, energy reduction, waste, and 
water management initiatives. In addition, we believe it is critical 
to continuously focus on responsible resource management, 
including minimizing energy and water usage, maximizing scrap 
input, optimizing capital allocation, and efficiently managing other 
resources available to the company.
5. Manage Capital Through a Disciplined Approach and 
Increase Financial Flexibility
We have invested capital in a number of attractive growth 
opportunities to enhance our production capabilities, product 
offering, and sustainability objectives. We are highly focused on 
realizing their expected contributions to our earnings, manufacturing 
capabilities, and corporate profile. In addition, we are highly focused 
on increasing our financial fleixiblity to reduce our debt, which we 
believe is critical to achieving our long term objective of investing in 
our people and our operations.
6. Commit to Our People and Communities
We believe our people are among the best in the industry; this is a 
competitive strength which allows us to be a leader in our industry. Putting Sustainability at 
the Heart of Our Strategy
By making sustainability an intrinsic part of 
our business strategy, we are confident of 
reaching our goals. 
Our six strategic pillars
We are committed to building a safe and sustainable company. 
This means reducing our emissions and our waste; investing in our 
people; supporting our communities; adhering to sound governance 
principles; developing, manufacturing, and promoting products that 
are sustainable for the benefit of our customers and end consumers; 
and creating shareholder value. Our goal is to become the safest 
and the most exciting company in our industry. To achieve these 
objectives, we have built a business strategy centered around six 
core principles:
1. Focus on High Value-added and Responsible Products
We are primarily focused on our three strategic end markets—
packaging, aerospace, and automotive—where we believe that 
we can differentiate ourselves through our high value-added 
and specialty products. We believe our differentiated products 
provide significant benefits to our customers in many areas, such 
as weight reduction, and contribute to their objective of reducing We believe our people are among the best in the industry, 
and we strive to provide a safe and inclusive environment13
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
Our values
SAFETY RESPECT TRUST
Safety is everyone’s responsibility, 
whatever their role. We constantly 
improve our safety practices and 
train our employees to always 
follow safety instructions and rules, 
and to speak up whenever they 
see unsafe behavior.Respect is the foundation of every 
relationship. We respect and value 
the diversity of people that make 
up our business, and we treat 
everyone fairly.Trust is the basis of our approach 
to business. This means creating 
an environment where everyone 
can exchange views and 
collaborate effectively.
TRANSPARENCY COLLABORATION EMPOWERMENT
We make sure all our employees 
have the information they need to 
do their job, and we communicate 
openly and clearly to our 
customers and other stakeholders.We work together, and with our 
customers and stakeholders, to 
identify and solve problems and to 
bring new ideas and perspectives.We trust and enable employees, at 
all levels, to make decisions and 
be accountable for them.We strive to promote a safe and inclusive environment where 
everyone is valued, can contribute, and thrive. Lastly, we strive to 
be socially responsible operators in our communities.
Sustainability is key
Sustainability is integral to these six pillars. Our EHS FIRST  policy 
includes focusing on safety, engaging our people, and reducing 
the impact of our operations. Our strategically selected markets 
are those where aluminium brings clear environmental benefits. 
Product leadership requires good environmental stewardship, 
including metal recycling. Customer service excellence also means 
satisfying sustainability concerns. Our commitment to our people 
and communities is reflected in our safety and training programs, 
our Diversity and Inclusion Program, and our community projects. By evaluating sustainability risks and opportunities in our investments, 
we optimize our margins and asset utilization. Our focus on capital 
discipline and shareholder value creation allows us to generate the 
returns and cash flows needed to sustain an attractive future for 
our company, our employees, and our communities.
Constellium’s strategy extends to our supply chain. That is why 
we are a founding member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 
(ASI), a global, multi-stakeholder, nonprofit, standards-setting 
and certification organization. Following an entire value chain 
approach, ASI works towards responsible production, sourcing, 
and stewardship of aluminium. For more about our support for ASI, 
see page  68.14
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
Board meetings in 2021
There were seven meetings of the Board of Directors in 2021. During 
these meetings the Board reviewed a number of topics, including: 
committee reports, reports from the CEO (including environmental, 
health and safety, markets, and competition), reports from the CFO 
and the Group’s General Counsel, review and approval of the 2020 
Annual Accounts, the 2020 Management Report and Form 20-F 
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, approval of 
the agenda items for the annual General Meeting of shareholders, 
refinancing approvals, approval of executive remuneration and 
Restricted Stock Unit grants, reports from business units and on 
cyber security, review of company strategy, R&D review, review of 
the 2022 budget and long-term plan, finance reports, and Board and 
Committee self-evaluation results.
In addition, as we designed our 2030 sustainability strategy, the 
Board was asked to review and approve our  targets, action plans, 
and Key Performance Indicators.
The number of Board and Committee meetings held in 2021:
• Audit Committee: 8
• Human Resources Committee: 6
• Nominating and Governance Committee: 6
• Safety and Sustainability Committee (formerly EHS): 3
Governance and accountability
Constellium’s values serve as the foundation of our company. Our 
ethics are embedded in all our decision-making processes and the 
ways in which we conduct business. Our commitment to sustainability 
determines our interactions with stakeholders, communities, and 
one another. Sustainability has been at the core of our business 
strategy for the past decade. Constellium benefits from strong, 
committed governance bodies and a compliance structure that 
aims to guarantee effective, independent, and balanced decision-
making and reporting processes, allowing the Group to practice 
sustainability at every level of the organization.
Enhanced sustainability governance
As we prepared our 2030 sustainability roadmap, we decided to 
further enhance our governance and compliance model. This was 
proposed to the Board and approved at its September 2021 meeting.
At Board level, we have a new Safety and Sustainability 
Committee, which replaces the former  Environmental, Health, 
and Safety Committee. Chaired by Michiel Brandjes, it met three 
times in 2021 and played an important role in defining our 2030 
sustainability roadmap. Meanwhile, the Board’s other three 
committees have had their scopes expanded, for greater focus 
on different aspects of ESG.Governance
Director independence
We maintain a one-tier Board of Directors consisting of an Executive 
Director and Non-Executive Directors (each a “Director”). Under 
French law, there are no separate independence requirements for 
French companies whose shares are not listed on an EU-regulated 
market, so we defer to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) 
requirements. As a foreign private issuer under the NYSE rules, 
we are not required to have independent Directors on our Board, 
except to the extent that our audit committee is required to consist 
of independent Directors.
However, our Board has determined that, under current NYSE  listing 
standards regarding independence, and taking into account any 
applicable committee standards, as of December 31, 2021, Mmes. 
Boccon-Gibod, Brooks, Browne, Frachet, Walker, and  Messrs. 
Evans, Brandjes, Deslarzes, Ormerod, Paschke, and Puig are 
deemed independent Directors. Under these standards, Mr. Germain 
is not deemed independent as he serves as the CEO of the company. 
As of December 1, 2021, our Board of Directors includes two 
employee Directors, Ms. Weiler and Mr. Verdier, who would not be 
deemed independent due to their employment by the company.Stephane Corre, Issoire Plant Director, welcomed Board 
member Jean-Philippe Puig15
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
The Executive Committee  will continue to review the progress 
and strategy of the 2030 sustainability roadmap twice a year, and 
will organize ad hoc meetings to discuss specific topics as 
appropriate. 
Our internal governance bodies cover the entire spectrum of ESG 
concerns:
• The Disclosure Committee’s scope includes reviewing 
Constellium’s consolidated statement of non-financial 
performance (“déclaration de performance extra-financière”) 
and vigilance plan (plan de vigilance) in addition to reviewing 
financial reporting.
• The Manufacturing Council’s scope is expanded to cover 
climate change (GHG) and other environmental topics such as 
air emissions, water, waste, and biodiversity in addition to 
health and safety. 
• The Enterprise Risk Management Committee includes 
ESG-related risks in its assessments.
• The Compliance Committee, chaired by the Senior Vice 
President and Group General Counsel, oversees training and 
communication of Our Worldwide Code of Employees and 
Business Conduct as well as its compliance, updating and 
enforcement. Every quarter, the Committee reviews cases 
received via the integrity hotline or other channels, officially 
Audit  
CommitteeHuman Resources  
CommitteeNominating and 
Governance 
CommitteeSafety and 
Sustainability 
Committee
Comprised of five 
Independent Directors2, 
held 8 meetings in 2021
• Lori A. Walker (Chair)
• Martha Brooks
• Christine Browne
• John Ormerod
• Werner P. PaschkeComprised of four 
Independent Directors, 
held 6 meetings in 2021
• Martha Brooks (Chair)
• Richard B. Evans
• Christine Browne
• Jean-Christophe 
DeslarzesComprised of five 
Independent Directors, 
held 6 meetings in 2021
• Richard B. Evans 
(Chair)
• Isabelle Boccon-Gibod
• Michiel Brandjes
• John Ormerod
• Lori A. WalkerComprised of four 
Independent Directors, 
held 3 meetings in 2021 
• Michiel Brandjes 
(Chair)
• Jean-Christophe 
Deslarzes
• Stéphanie Frachet
• Jean-Philippe PuigOur Board of Directors’ committees1“By renaming the former 
EHS Committee the 
Safety and Sustainability 
Committee, we wanted 
to reflect our expanded 
duties and actions, 
especially when it comes 
to climate change 
mitigation and the 
stewardship of natural 
resources. Constellium’s 
GHG emission reduction 
program will definitely 
be a critical component 
of our ESG ambition in 
the coming decade.”
Jean-Marc Germain, CEO of Constellium
1. As of December 31, 2021
2. According to the NYSE requirements16
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
closing each case when there are no additional actions to be 
taken. Each review also provides an opportunity to study cases 
at a global level, so that we can mitigate any overall risks or 
concerns. The Committee’s quarterly reports to the Audit 
Committee include any material issues regarding the 
Constellium Policy on Responsible Supply Chain Management, 
the Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices, alleged cases of 
corruption or influence peddling, or alleged breaches of the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
At the operational level, we eliminated the Sustainability 
Council, which consisted of representatives from key functions 
who met every quarter and were responsible for achieving our 
2021 targets. From now on, our corporate functions, business 
units, and sites are accountable for implementing and reporting 
upon actions to achieve our 2030 targets. Leaders of each 
function will work directly with sites and report to the relevant 
ExCom-level committees. Internal Audit and Internal Control will 
perform ESG audits to ensure we are on track. The Corporate 
Sustainability team will focus on engaging stakeholders, providing 
guidance on strategy and policies, monitoring implementation, 
reporting, communicating, and training.
In December the Board approved our 2030 sustainability roadmap, 
to be announced in April 2022.
Our policies
Our sustainability strategy is upheld by the following publicly 
available Group policies:
Worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct
Our Worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct spells 
out the standard of behavior we expect from our employees, and 
governs all of our business actions. The Code covers all Constellium 
employees and is subject to applicable local laws. Compliance with 
the Code is essential to preserving and enhancing Constellium’s 
reputation as a responsible corporate citizen and, ultimately, to 
maximizing stakeholder value. Our objective is to have 100% of the 
targeted employees receiving the online code of conduct training 
each year.
Sustainability Charter
The charter states our commitment to Products, People, Operations, 
and Governance.
Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices
Our human rights policy is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights and the Aluminium Stewardship 
Initiative Performance standard. It applies to the company, our 
partners, and our suppliers.Policy on Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS First Policy)
Our policy is defined through EHS FIRST , Constellium’s EHS 
Management System. Our system is described and documented 
in the EHS FIRST policy and manual, and Constellium’s EHS 
Directives and Guidelines.
Responsible Supply Chain Management Policy and Supplier 
Code of Conduct
Our Responsible Supply Chain Management Policy and Supplier 
Code of Conduct are aligned with the principles of the UN Global 
Compact, and apply to all our suppliers, consultants, contractors, 
and agents. We ask all of our suppliers to sign our Supplier Code 
of Conduct. 
Policy for Reporting Wrongdoings (Whistleblower Policy)
This policy encourages employees to speak out without fear of 
retaliation by establishing procedures for reporting wrongdoing, 
suspected wrongdoing, fraud, irregularities (financial, accounting, 
auditing, banking), or any violations of our policies, procedures, or 
Code of Conduct. To facilitate reporting, we have established an 
integrity hotline, operated by an external third party, in all countries 
where we have operations, and in various languages.
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) due diligence 
for mergers and acquisitions (M&A),  as well as closure, 
decommissioning, and divestment processes
This policy sets out the principles for integrating ESG risks and 
opportunities into our due diligence process for M&A, closures, 
decommissioning, and divestitures.
Insider Trading Policy
We have an insider trading policy which sets out the restrictions on 
trading in Constellium securities and the use of inside information.17
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
Communication and training
Our communications team is familiar with our sustainability 
challenges, goals, and achievements. It helps the company achieve 
our goals by engaging our employees and externally communicating 
our performance and progress. One important way we involve our 
employees is via training in sustainability and our Code of Conduct.
The sustainability e-learning course we launched in 2019 is part of the 
onboarding program for new hires, and available to all employees. 
In 2021, we continued to offer tailor-made virtual sustainability 
training to our sales teams upon demand, boosting their knowledge 
of specific topics (GHG, recycling), so they can answer increasing 
requests and questions from our customers.We also use e-learning to train employees in our Code of Conduct, 
and have a yearly refresher course for all employees with access 
to virtual learning.
Our internal digital magazine, LIVE, is available to all employees, and 
covers various sustainability topics. In 2021, it published an interview 
with a sustainability expert at Constellium, sharing key messages 
from the most recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPCC) Report, as well as tips for individual employees to help act 
against climate change.
Code of Conduct Training
1,5541,7531,7071,664
1,4771,7031,6391,59095% achieved97% achieved 96% achieved 96% achieved
Number of People Targeted Number of People Trained % achieved2018 2019 2020 2021
95%
achieved97%
achieved2018 2019
1,5541,7531,7071,664
1,4771,7031,6391,59095% achieved97% achieved 96% achieved 96% achieved
Number of People Targeted Number of People Trained % achieved2018 2019 2020 2021
96%
achieved96%
achieved2020 2021
1,5541,7531,7071,664
1,4771,7031,6391,59095% achieved97% achieved 96% achieved 96% achieved
Number of People Targeted Number of People Trained % achieved2018 2019 2020 2021
Board Directors’ visit of Constellium’s facility in Issoire, France18
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
John Ormerod
Non-Executive Director
Member of our Board of Directors 
since June 2014
Isabelle Boccon-Gibod
Non-Executive Director
Member of our Board of Directors 
since May 2021
Wiebke Weiler 
Employee Director
Member of our Board of Directors 
since December 2021
Christine Browne
Non-Executive Director
Member of our Board of Directors 
since May 2021
Jean-François Verdier
Employee Director
Member of our Board of Directors 
since December 2021Werner P. Paschke
Non-Executive Director
Member of our Board of Directors  
since May 2013
Jean-Christophe Deslarzes
Non-Executive Director
Member of our Board of Directors  
since May 2021
Stéphanie Frachet
Non-Executive Director
Member of our Board of Directors 
since May 2018
Martha Brooks
Non-Executive Director
Member of our Board of Directors 
since June 2016
Jean-Marc Germain
Executive Director
Executive Director of our Board of 
Directors since June 2016 and Chief 
Executive Officer  
since July 2016
Lori A. Walker
Non-Executive Director
Member of our Board of Directors 
since June 2014Richard B. Evans
Chairman
Chairman of our Board since  
December 2012 and a member of 
our Board of Directors  
since January 2011
Michiel Brandjes
Non-Executive Director
Member of our Board of Directors 
since June 2014
Jean-Philippe Puig
Non-Executive Director
Member of our Board of Directors 
since May 2021Board of 
Directors
The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the 
management of the Company, the general conduct of the 
Company’s business, and its corporate governance structure. 
The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance 
to the Executive Director, who is entrusted with the day-to-day 
management of the Company.19
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
Vittorio Rossetti
Senior Vice President,  
Chief Information Officer and  
Chief Digital Officer
Ludovic Piquier 
Senior Vice President,  
Manufacturing Excellence and  
Chief Technical Officer
Jeremy Leach
Senior Vice President and Group 
General Counsel
Ryan Jurkovic
Senior Vice President and Chief 
Human Resources Officer
Philippe Hoffmann
President, Automotive Structures 
and Industry business unit
Ingrid Joerg
President, Aerospace and  
Transportation business unitPeter Matt
Executive Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer
Jean-Marc Germain
Chief Executive Officer
Peter Basten
President, Packaging and Automotive 
Rolled Products business unit
Jack Clark
Senior Vice President and  
Advisor to the CEO
Nicolas Brun
Senior Vice President, Public Affairs, 
Communications and SustainabilityExecutive Committee
The Executive Committee focuses on strategy, financial 
management, commercial development, program execution, 
organizational evolution, and Group-wide policies.  ◄  ◄
Introduction20 - 21
2021 marks 10 years of Constellium, and the publication of our  
10th Business and Sustainability Report. We are celebrating 
a decade of growth, hard work, innovation, and commitment. 
Together, we will continue to shape the future of aluminium, 
responsibly and safely.Celebrating 10 Years 
of Constellium
2011
Constellium became an 
independent company.
2012
Constellium created its 
Sustainability Council.2017
We celebrated 50 years of 
C-TEC, our R&D center. 2018
We expanded 
our Automotive 
Structures  network 
with new plants  in San 
Luis Potosí (Mexico) and 
Levice (Slovakia), and 
added capacity in Děčín  
(Czech Republic) and 
Dahenfeld (Germany).
2020
Constellium received 
a Platinum rating  from 
EcoVadis.2019
We became a  French 
company  and moved our 
headquarters to Paris.
2015
We acquired  the facility in 
Muscle Shoals, Alabama, 
significantly increasing 
our cansheet and 
recycling capacity.2016
We increased our  Auto 
Body Sheet capacity by 
200kt  with a new finishing 
line at Neuf-Brisach 
in France, and a new 
facility in Bowling Green, 
Kentucky.2013
Constellium 
began  trading on the 
NYSE  under the ticker 
symbol CSTM. 
2014
We built  two casthouses 
dedicated to the 
production of Airware®, 
which was selected to 
be part of major new 
aerospace programs 
including the Airbus  
A350 XWB.2011 2011 2011 2011 2021 2021 2021 2021
Revenue Employees1Manufacturing  
sites R&D  
centers 2021
+€2.6bn +2,700 +5 +2
€3.6bn 9,300 22 1 €6.2bn 12,000 27 3         Y ears
1. The numbers of employees in 2011 and 2021 are rounded22
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
Prioritizing Environment, 
Health, and Safety
Everything we do at Constellium begins and 
ends with safety. We regularly review our 
policies and practices to keep our people 
safe and healthy while protecting the 
environment.  
Our challenges 
Environment, health, and safety (EHS) are absolute priorities. 
We recognize that our industry requires materials, equipment, 
and processes that may pose risks to the health and safety of 
our employees, contractors, and visitors, so we have defined and 
implemented strict policies and processes to protect our employees 
and others in our facilities. Our goal is to achieve zero injuries and 
illnesses by integrating EHS into all aspects of our business. The 
nature of our business also creates certain risks for the environment, 
which we strive to minimize. Constellium’s EHS management 
system is described in our EHS FIRST  policy and manual, and our 
EHS Directives and Guidelines. 
Safety 
Safety is our most important priority, and central to all our actions. 
Our Recordable Case Rate (RCR)1 improved from 3.31 in 2016 
to 1.85 in 2021, our second consecutive year with a Recordable 
Case Rate below 1.9. Over the course of 2021, 12 sites reached 
the remarkable milestone of 1, 1.5, or even 2 million work hours 
without a recordable injury case. However, despite our efforts at 
serious injury and fatality2 prevention, six cases were classified 
as serious.  
Our Žilina team gathered for a day dedicated  
to EHS topicsOur global Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) initiative remains a key 
priority, and at the core of our EHS program. All sites are taking 
meaningful actions to reduce SIF risks, adding up to more than 1,000 
local initiatives. In particular, as human interactions with machines 
pose a risk in all our facilities, and non-observance of the Lock-out 
Tag-out (LOTO) rule has been responsible for more serious injuries 
than any other category, 93% of all sites completed or made significant 
progress on a global LOTO improvement program. Similarly, we 
focused on molten metal explosion risk mitigation, so now 23 out of 31 
slab casting lines are hands-free, with plans to convert the remainder.
Training remains an essential component of our approach. In 
2021, 85% of Constellium employees participated in a four-hour 
training program, Caring for Each Other, focused on the reasons for 
unsafe practices, peer-to-peer interaction, and speaking up when 
employees witness risky behavior. We coached 145 internal trainers 
to continue our Caring for Each Other program.  
Digital Leadership Safety Tours
The Leadership Safety Tour (LST) is a well-known process across 
all our plants, in which plant leadership discusses onsite preventive 
and corrective safety actions, and notes ideas for improvement, 
best practices, and corrective actions when needed. With 40,000 
leadership safety tours conducted every year in Constellium's plants, 
the process generates a significant amount of paperwork. As part of 
the Digital@Constellium initiative, Constellium's Central IT team and 
Muscle Shoals developed an app making the process easier and 
more efficient, and allowing people to analyze and share information, 
including photos and videos. The app also allows us to spot patterns, 
helping with the identification of potential risks. 
Environment 
Our main environmental actions and programs concern spill 
containment and countermeasures, hazardous substance 
management, reducing landfilled waste, improving energy efficiency, 
waste and materials reuse and recycling, minimizing the impacts of 
air emissions, and water management ( see pages 60-65).
Preventing significant environmental incidents is another major focus 
area. We are proud of our track record of zero significant incidents in 
seven-plus years. The reporting of minor issues is important to our 
prevention strategy, and in 2021 more environmental near misses 
and minor incidents were reported than ever—510 in all. 
A number of site projects have significantly reduced air emissions, 
such as increased filtration systems at the Issoire casthouse, or a 
1. Our Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per 1 million hours worked, including by our contractors. 
2. We define Serious Injuries as an injury which involves substantial risk of death and/ or substantial risk of serious disfigurement, prolonged impairment of health, or prolonged loss or impairment of the 
function of any bodily organ. 23
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
better control of emissions during the melting process in Steg  (see 
page 65 ). Our sites continue to reduce landfilled waste ( see page 60 ). 
We have also made progress in reducing water consumption—for 
instance, Issoire has decreased water withdrawal with an expanded 
closed loop, more flow meters, and leak repairs. Finally, Singen and 
Neuf-Brisach both conducted biodiversity studies.
Health  
Responding to the Covid-19 crisis 
We continued to implement safety standards and policies to protect 
our employees and their families, including regularly disinfecting and 
partitioning work areas, wearing masks, enforcing social distancing 
practices, a flexible work policy, and quarantine procedures for 
confirmed cases and suspected exposures. We gave workers 
the opportunity to get vaccinated on some of our sites, and to be 
regularly tested. 
Other health initiatives  
Beyond safety, we support our employees with preventive measures 
to avoid work-related diseases and stay healthy (fitness classes, eye 
testing, reduced noise levels, improved ergonomics, etc.). Many of 
our sites have an Employee Assistance Program to help with personal 
problems, or organize team conversations on addiction prevention 
and other issues. Plants have launched health campaigns on breast 
cancer awareness, Healthy Heart Month, smoking cessation, weight 
loss, and more. Our company-wide newsletter and intranet also 
report on various health topics.
EHS virtual reality training at  
Montreuil-Juigné
OUR RESULTS
93% of our sites3 have ISO 14001 certification (environmental management systems), while 95% of our employees4 are covered by ISO 
45001 certifications (occupational health and safety).
2021 TARGETS INDICATORS 2020 2021
Reduce our Recordable 
Case Rate by 10% per 
annum from 2016Recordable Case Rate  
and annual variation 1.821.85
RCR vs target of 1.95 RCR in 2021
- 44% vs 2016
No more than four serious 
injuries a yearNumber of serious  
injuries2
Serious injuries6
Serious injuries
Be in the industry’s top 
quartile for safety resultsRecordable  
Case Rate YESIndustry data is not yet 
available
Zero major or significant 
environmental incidentsNumber of major or 
significant incidents 0 0
3. Joint venture sites are excluded.
4. Employees at corporate offices and joint ventures are excluded.Our results24
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
Manufacturing Excellence
Our Manufacturing Excellence team  
works with our plants and R&D centers 
throughout the year to achieve continuous 
improvements in our operations and 
produce top-quality goods as safely  
and efficiently as possible.
EHS FIRST  
Safety is the first priority for Constellium and the primary objective 
of our Manufacturing Excellence program (see page 22). With new 
technologies, we are able to find solutions to further protect our 
employees.
Making the most of our assets
Our Manufacturing Excellence program ensures that we fully 
realize the benefits of our industrial assets by optimizing our 
strong manufacturing platform of 27 plants with unique production 
capabilities. Regular maintenance is essential to ensure the level 
of quality and reliability that our customers require. We implement 
capital upgrades whenever necessary—for instance, to allow for 
debottlenecking and optimizing equipment uptime, recovery, and 
mill speed.
Supporting our sustainability initiatives
By helping our plants become more energy efficient and generate 
less waste, our Manufacturing Excellence program also contributes 
to our sustainability journey. Energy efficiency is at the core of our 
sustainability targets. All of our facilities are implementing action 
plans to address this critical issue.Contributing to Horizon 2022 
Being as efficient as possible with our capital enables us to protect 
our business and preserve our financial flexibility. The manufacturing 
excellence team played a critical role in supporting our company-
wide Horizon 22 initiative, by identifying and implementing solutions 
to optimize our production process and reduce our energy 
consumption, ultimately allowing us to make our products in a more 
sustainable and profitable way. In particular, the team continued to 
focus on metal recovery, with successful projects in Neuf-Brisach 
(France) and Muscle Shoals, Bowling Green, and Ravenswood 
(U.S.). In addition to significantly reducing the amount of scrap 
generated during the production process, these initiatives helped 
the plants optimize their casting and recycling capacity.
Adding capacity at Singen
A state-of-the-art, 45-MN 10” extrusion press was commissioned 
and installed at record speed at our Singen extrusion plant. It 
provides the increased capacity needed to produce our advanced 
HSA6® and HCA6® alloys, allowing us to supply our Automotive 
Structures plants with optimal design solutions and to meet our 
automotive customers’ lightweighting requirements.
Following a furnace upgrade performed in collaboration with our 
supplier, Singen has been able to significantly accelerate the 
speed of its Continuous Annealing Processing Line. This furnace 
“booster” technology has increased speed by 20% for a significant 
part of the product mix, giving Singen additional Auto Body Sheet 
capacity.
New press in Singen’s facility, Germany“Manufacturing Excellence  
is the ability to create a learning 
company. We promote a culture 
of shared experiences where  
we learn from our successes  
and our failures, to improve 
together.”
Ludovic Piquier, Senior Vice President, Manufacturing 
Excellence and Chief Technology Officer25
 ◄  ◄
Introduction
A Smart Process Lab (SPL) in Sierre, Switzerland 
The SPL is an industrial laboratory combining skills from a local 
engineering school with those at Constellium Valais. It accelerates 
the introduction of Industry 4.0 concepts through different techniques 
(algorithms, machine learning, etc.) to solve concrete problems 
related to the site’s activities. By digitalizing Sierre’s furnaces, the 
SPL team helped to increase productivity while reducing energy 
consumption per metric ton produced. On average, Sierre has 
increased the amount of extrusions it can produce from 34.5  metric 
tons to 42.6 metric tons, thanks to a gain in oven time estimated at 
8,225 hours per year.
Production process at Sierre in Switzerland
Using cobots to reinforce our employees’ safety
As part of the Digital@Constellium project, we are looking into 
how cobots could improve efficiency and ease the physical load 
on operators. Cobots are a new generation of low-cost, easy-to-
install robots designed to work closely with, but not replace, human 
operators. They are generally used to perform relatively simple 
and repetitive duties—for instance, “picking and placing” tasks of 
a production line.
Cobot in our Gottmadingen facility, Germany
SMARTMELT 
Our “Smartmelt” program optimizes the operation of our casthouses,
the most energy-intensive aspect of our production process. Sensors
monitor the furnaces’ status and temperature in real time, and a
digital twin indicates to our operators how to work most efficiently
and with the least energy consumption. The technology is being
installed at Issoire, followed by Neuf-Brisach and Muscle Shoals,
with the objective of extending it to the rest of the Group.
One of Constellium’s casthousesFor a tomorrow  
of infinite solutions, 
we innovate today.
Safe and thermoresistant battery enclosures for electric vehicles, 
rockets probing deep space, fully recyclable packaging…the only limit 
to aluminium’s promise is our imagination. Constellium devotes serious 
resources to harnessing its potential, including our state-of-the-art research 
centers, world-class engineers, customer collaborations, and partnerships 
with universities and research labs. As a result, our advanced alloys and 
manufacturing techniques are providing new answers to mankind’s most 
difficult challenges.Business  
Report28
 ◄  ◄
Business Markets
Packaging is fundamental to 
Constellium’s portfolio, a secular 
growth market that performs well in 
all economies. We address every 
aspect of it, from recycling to finished 
aluminium coils and sheets.
Our products
We provide a large range of aluminium goods and 
solutions for a variety of markets: beverage cans, food 
cans, bottle closures, flexible packaging, personal care 
aerosols, cosmetics packaging, and luxury packaging for 
the perfume industry.
Some of our customers
AB InBev • Amcor • Ardagh Group • Ball •  
CANPACK • Crown • Coca-Cola
OUR PACKAGING PLANTS
— Muscle Shoals, Alabama: One of our 
biggest sites, with the fastest coating line,  
also one of the world’s largest recyclers  
of used aluminium cans. 
— Neuf-Brisach, France: A major 
European provider of beverage canstock 
(body, end, and tab) and food canstock, also 
a world-class recycling center. 
— Singen, Germany: Produces closure 
stock and foilstock for customers worldwide. Packaging
29
 ◄  ◄
Business Markets
Market trendsHighlights
Recycling without prime
The massive recycling facility at our Muscle Shoals plant, 
known as Element 13 (E13), reached an important milestone 
in May and June, producing without prime (“pure”) aluminium 
for the very first time. Melting and Recycling Project Leader 
Guillaume Bes said, “This accomplishment was possible due to 
operators, supervisors, coordinators, and everyone on the team 
being strongly involved.” The process of recycling aluminium 
involves simply remelting the metal, which is far less energy-
intensive than manufacturing new aluminium. Aluminium 
recycling avoids waste production, resource depletion, and 
greenhouse gas emissions. Recycling end-of-life scrap requires 
only 5% of the energy used to produce primary metal, and 
delivers up to 95% in CO2 savings. 
Increasing the recycling rate of aluminium beverage 
cans in the U.S.
Constellium joined Can Manufacturers Institute (CMI) members 
in the industry’s commitment to U.S. aluminium beverage can 
recycling rate targets, starting with 70% by 2030. CMI aims  
to achieve the higher recycling targets through four pillars  
of action—advocate for can deposit programs at the state 
and federal levels, increase and improve consumer recycling 
at home and away-from-home, catalyze recycling center can 
capture upgrades, and enhance consumer awareness of 
recycling. Raphael Thevenin, Constellium’s Vice President  
of Marketing and Sales, Packaging, explained why the company 
joined this program, in particular the push for well-designed 
deposit systems: “Aluminium can sheet producers such as 
Constellium recycled nearly 47 billion aluminium beverage  
cans in the United States last year. And 40% of those came  
from just the 10 states that have a recycling deposit system.”
43%
of our 2021 revenue came 
from the packaging market
Customer preference for aluminium cans is translating into 
long-term, secular growth for the packaging market. An 
increased focus on sustainability continues to boost demand 
for aluminium cans as the eco-responsible alternative to 
plastics in beverage packaging. This trend is reinforced by 
regulations such as a European ban on certain single-use 
plastics. 
Many companies have also announced a reduction in plastic 
packaging and single-use plastics. Our customers continue 
to invest in new can lines in both North America and Europe, 
which should drive incremental demand for can sheet for years 
to come. European Canstock Consumption (kt)
  Eastern Europe        
  Western Europe  05001,0001,5002,000
2026 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
North American Canstock Consumption (kt)
  Canada and Mexico        
  U.S.  05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
2026 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021+3.7%
CAGR
+3.4%
CAGRSource: Republished under license from CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled 
Products Market Outlook November 2021
Source: Republished under license from CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled 
Products Market Outlook November 202130
 ◄  ◄
Business Markets
As one of the 100 leading automotive 
suppliers worldwide,1 Constellium 
designs and produces aluminium 
solutions for major automakers and 
some of their most iconic models, 
including the BMW X5, Mercedes-Benz 
C-Class, Ford Bronco and F-150, and 
Audi A7 and e-tron GT. Our advanced 
products are helping drive the industry 
towards a more sustainable future.
Our products
Automakers know they can count on Constellium to help 
them develop lighter, stronger, safer, more fuel-efficient 
vehicles with lower emissions and greater range. Our 
portfolio of advanced rolled products and extrusion-based 
components includes closures and body structures, 
Crash Management Systems, battery enclosures, heat 
exchangers, and interior trim. Our capabilities range from 
material science to product design and development, 
component simulation, prototyping, testing and production, 
and closed-loop recycling. We cast our high-technology 
automotive alloys in-house.
Some of our customers
Audi • BMW Group • Ford • General Motors • 
Honda • Jaguar Land Rover • Mercedes-Benz • 
Porsche • Renault Nissan • Stellantis • Toyota • 
Volkswagen
OUR AUTOMOTIVE PLANTS
— More than 20 sites serve the global 
automotive market. 
— Our plants in Bowling Green 
(Kentucky, U.S.), Neuf-Brisach (France), 
and Singen (Germany), have a total Auto 
Body Sheet capacity of 280kt. 
— We stay close to our customers with a 
global network of Automotive Structures 
plants providing safety and structural 
components, supplied by our extrusion 
operations in Europe and North America.Automotive
1. Source: Automotive News 202131
 ◄  ◄
Business Markets
Market trends
Aluminium under the hood of EVs
Strong, lightweight, and energy absorbing, aluminium is 
perfectly suited to electric vehicles, and we started supplying 
new models with advanced aluminium solutions in 2021. First, 
our long-standing partnership with Audi expanded to the 
e-tron GT and SUV. Audi found our Surfalex® Auto Body Sheet 
solution to be ideal for the bold styling and surface aesthetics 
of the vehicles’ rear doors and fenders, while Securalex® brings 
high-tech crash absorption capacity to their hoods. Constellium 
HSA6® extrusion alloys provide heavy duty strength to the 
vehicles’ Crash Management Systems, as well as the e-tron’s 
battery enclosure and side impact beams.
Constellium is also building upon our relationship with Ford by 
supplying aluminium structural components for the all-electric 
F-150 Lightning, which will be available in spring 2022. These 
components include the windshield header, rocker, and radiator 
support. Since 2015, we have delivered more than 50 million 
components for Ford’s aluminium-intensive trucks and SUVs.
Alumobility puts the pedal to the metal
Constellium is a founding member of Alumobility, a nonprofit 
organization launched in 2021. An ecosystem of aluminium and 
technology partners working with automotive manufacturers, 
its goal is to offer technical studies that advance the adoption 
of aluminium Automotive Body Sheet. Already, Alumobility 
has proposed a next generation aluminium door design and 
an all structural B-pillar, as well as an all aluminium top hat. 
These studies prove that aluminium can compete with other 
materials to mass produce lightweight sustainable vehicles at 
an affordable cost. For example, 40%+ weight reductions are 
commonly achieved for doors at a cost of €3/kg saved.26%
of our 2021 revenue came 
from the automotive marketHighlights
Automotive remains a secular growth market for aluminium,  
as carmakers are drawn to the material’s lightweight and  
energy absorption properties. We anticipate this trend will  
gain momentum with more stringent emission regulations  
and higher demand for hybrid and electric vehicles. 
While automotive demand in 2021 was hindered by the 
semiconductor situation, we believe the impact on the 
aluminium flat rolled market and extruded products  
was more limited given OEM prioritization of higher-end 
light trucks, SUVs, and luxury vehicles. We expect the 
semiconductor situation to gradually improve over the  
course of 2022. Vehicle1 production forecast (in thousands units)
  Europe  
  North America  010,00020,00030,00040,00050,000
2026 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021
Automotive body sheet flat rolled products 
consumption (kt)
  Europe  
  North America  05001000150020002500
2026 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021+6.6%
CAGR
+11.7%
CAGRSource: Republished under license from CRU International Ltd. 
Global & Economic Outlook December 2021
1. Represents both car and commercial vehicle production, including
light trucks
Source: Republished under license from CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled 
Products Market Outlook November 202132
 ◄  ◄
Business Markets
Constellium provides high-
performance, cost-effective 
products and solutions for the skies, 
in partnership with the leading 
aerospace companies. We develop 
advanced proprietary alloys and 
technologies, and we produce 
aluminium plates, sheets, castings, 
and extrusions. We also pre-machine 
and recycle scrap.
Our products
We develop and manufacture rolled and extruded 
aluminium products for key structural aircraft applications: 
fuselage and wing skins, doublers, stiffeners, window 
frames, bulkheads, floor structures, seat tracks, doors, 
and engine component parts. Our Airware® aluminium-
lithium alloys are the market-leading material of choice 
for military and space applications. We also provide pre-
machining and recycling, which reduces the amount of 
scrap our customers generate and manage, along with 
their material costs.
Some of our customers
Airbus • ArianeGroup • Blue Origin • Boeing • 
Dassault  Aviation • Lockheed Martin • Pilatus • 
Safran
OUR AEROSPACE PLANTS
— Issoire, France: One of the world’s biggest 
aerospace plate mills, with a casthouse for Airware®.
— Ussel, France:  One of the only providers of 
aerospace sand castings.
— Ravenswood, West Virginia: Plate shop with 
one of the world’s largest stretchers.
— Montreuil-Juigné, France: Hard alloy extrusions 
for aerospace applications.
— Sierre, Switzerland: A plate shop for aerospace 
applications.
— C-TEC, France: R&D center with an Airware® 
casting unit.Aerospace
33
 ◄  ◄
Business Markets
Market trends
Flying Airware® to deep space
Constellium’s innovative, high-performance Airware® solution 
is critical to the success of NASA’s Artemis deep space 
exploration program, including the Space Launch System 
rocket and Orion spacecraft. At our facility in Ravenswood, 
West Virginia, we have the unique ability to produce extra 
wide, thick aluminium-lithium alloy plates tailor-made for space 
modules. Airware® features low density, high specific stiffness, 
superior strength, and excellent mechanical properties, 
all of which are necessary for the demanding launch and 
landing phases of space travel. By advancing innovation and 
technology, Constellium supports the goal of sending humans 
to the Moon and Mars, and inspiring future generations of 
engineers and explorers.
Additive Manufacturing
Aluminium Additive Manufacturing is gaining attention  
in many areas—automotive, semi-conductor, defense, 
and, most notably, aerospace—for its potential to ease the 
design constraints of incumbent manufacturing processes. 
Constellium, with a privileged metal supplier position in 
aerospace and decades of knowledge in rapid solidification 
metallurgy, has developed Aheadd®, a portfolio of revolutionary 
additive manufacturing alloys. These new products are 
perfectly aligned with the requirements of powder bed fusion 
and the performance requirements of aerospace components 
(engine components, complex structural components, heat 
exchangers, etc.).6%
of our 2021 revenue came 
from the aerospace market
Highlights
Aerospace OEMs significantly reduced build rates in response 
to the demand reduction induced by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
While the near-term outlook for aerospace remains uncertain, 
we expect to begin to see a recovery in demand for aluminium 
flat rolled products in 2022. 
Over the longer term, the fundamentals driving aerospace 
demand growth remain intact, including growing passenger 
traffic and greater demand for new, more fuel-efficient aircraft.Fleet Development Driven by Passenger 
Demand and Aging Fleet (units)
010,00020,00030,00040,00050,000
2040 201923,505
Growth
54%
25,90020,105
Replacement 
46%
5,795
Retained
Aerospace Flat Rolled Product Consumption (kt)
Recovery (2021 – 2025)
  U.S. & Canada  
  Europe  050100150200250300350
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2019+13.8%
CAGR  
(2021-2025)Data source: Derived from Boeing 2021 Commercial Market Outlook 2021 - 2040
Source: Republished under license from CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled 
Products Market Outlook November 2021 + 3 .1 %
CAGR34
 ◄  ◄
Business Markets
Transportation
The light weight of our aluminium alloys is a major 
advantage for our transportation customers, whose 
profit and sustainability targets depend on the weight 
of their loads. Aluminium’s range of properties make it 
the perfect material for trucks, trailers, trains, tramways, 
and other modes of transportation, for which Constellium 
supplies high-performance extrusions, sheets, plates, 
castings, and semi-finished components. In addition, we 
minimize customers’ manufacturing costs and production 
throughput time with readymade components, solutions, 
and personalized services. We are a leading supplier to 
tank and trailer dump bodies and pleasure boats, and 
the market leader in large extrusion products for railway 
rolling stock.
Some of our customers  
and distributors
CAF • Gillig • Hitachi Rail • Koegel • Krone
Industry
Machinable, weldable, formable, and an excellent 
conductor of electricity and thermal energy, aluminium 
is ideal for a range of industrial applications. Constellium 
produces aluminium sheets, plates, bars, extrusions, and 
profiles for a variety of uses, from high-dissipation heat 
sinks to industrial robots. Our expertise in semiconductor 
and flat panel display equipment, combined with our 
superior manufacturing skills, make us the supplier of 
choice for both functional parts (e.g., vacuum process 
and transfer chambers, vacuum valves and pumps, masts 
for intralogistic systems) and consumable parts (e.g., 
showerheads, diffusers).
Some of our customers
Bosch • Draeger • Festo • Hexagon • Siemens Defense
As trusted partners of defense companies, we supply 
products and solutions for military aircraft, land vehicles, 
and navy ships. Constellium has the largest offering of 
specialized aluminium alloys for armored products, and 
we are currently developing next-generation materials for 
the top manufacturers of ground combat vehicles. Our 
high-performance alloys are helping to improve the safety 
and performance of aircraft such as the F-35 Joint Strike 
Fighter, F-2, F-16, A-10, Eurofighter Typhoon, and BAE 
Systems Hawk.
Some of our customers
Dassault Aviation • John Cockerill Defense •  
Lockheed Martin • Nexter SystemsTransportation, 
Industry, and Defense
25%
of our 2021 revenue came from 
other specialties, mostly from 
transportation, industry, and defenseCustomers in the transportation, industry, 
and defense markets turn to Constellium 
for rolled and extruded innovative 
solutions, tailor-made for their high value-
added applications. They know they 
can rely on us to execute particularly 
demanding commissions, given our 
undisputed expertise in manufacturing 
thick plates, wide coils and profiles, and 
low residual stress products.35
 ◄  ◄
Business Markets
Ravenswood cuts the ribbon
Following a major upgrade, our Ravenswood mill restarted its 
144-inch cold rolling mill in November 2021. Three years prior, 
a task force of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) found 
that cold rolled aluminium plate is an essential element of 
ground combat vehicles, Navy ships, and military aircraft. The 
DoD subsequently awarded Ravenswood nearly $9.5 million in 
funding to improve the throughput, quality, and performance 
of its cold rolled aluminium. With this restart, Constellium 
completed the first phase of the project, tearing down the 
1950s-era mill and upgrading its mechanical, electrical, 
hydraulic, and process control systems. The next phase will be 
to develop prototype manufacturing processes and products 
enabled by the mill’s new advanced capabilities, and in 
volumes that meet the DoD’s expanding requirements.On these buildings, all that glitters is aluminium
Following a three-year collaboration with C-TEC’s R&D teams, 
our Singen plant has successfully re-entered the growing 
building and construction market with a high-quality anodized 
aluminium. The researchers developed a new process route 
based on the 5005 alloy (commonly used in construction), for 
a result that meets the market’s high standards for durability, 
appearance, and fire resistance. China’s Rehongda Building 
Technology has already used the product successfully on three 
projects, and is looking to build others, with different surface 
types. The first, delivered in 2019, was the Vanke Shenzhen Bay 
Cloud Center, which used more than 1,000 m² of copper-colored 
anodized aluminium. The company then used a champagne-
colored anodized aluminium for a metro line in Shenzhen, and 
13,000 m2 of the metal in a gold shade for the Hangzhou Asian 
Games Stadium.
U.S. 
— Ravenswood, West Virginia: 
Featuring the industry’s widest 
coil line and one of the most 
powerful stretchers in the world, 
provides a broad range of 
solutions for engineering plate 
and transportation markets, and is 
a top defense supplier.EUROPE
— Děčín, Czech Republic: 
Europe’s largest integrated hard 
alloy extrusions facility is a leading 
producer of aluminium bars, tubes 
and profiles. Two casthouses and 
recycling capabilities.— Issoire, France: Supplies 
plates, sheets, and extrusions to 
the industry and defense markets.
— Montreuil-Juigné, France: 
Specializes in hard alloy 
extrusions with a range of 
products and applications.— Singen, Germany: An 
integrated hot/cold rolling line for 
unique metallurgical properties 
and short lead times, plus one 
of the world’s largest extrusion 
presses.
— Soft Alloys Europe: A network 
of five plants: Burg, Crailsheim, 
Landau in Germany; Levice, 
Slovakia; Nuits Saint-Georges, 
France.
— Ussel, France: A specialist 
in 3D sand printing, casting, and 
solidification, for complex, thin-
walled, and multi-core parts.
— Valais, Switzerland: Includes 
a precision plate unit for general 
engineering products, and 
supplies large profiles to high-
speed train manufacturers.
AN INTEGRATED INDUSTRIAL PLATFORMFor a circular  
economy tomorrow,
we recycle today.  
The aluminium can is a cornerstone of the circular economy, efficiently 
recycled and back on the shelf in only 60 days. Not only is aluminium 
endlessly recyclable without a loss in properties, but creating new metal 
from recycled aluminium uses only 5% of the energy required to produce 
virgin metal, and produces 95% less CO2. Beyond driving industry efforts 
to boost recycling, Constellium boasts one of the world’s largest (and 
growing) recycling footprints.  Sustainability  
Report38
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability 
Sustainability Highlights
Capital magazine designated us the #1 employer in our industry 
in France for the second consecutive year, based on an 
anonymous survey of 20,000 employees in French companies 
with at least 500 employees. 
The magazine Le Point and the research firm Statista selected 
the 250 most sustainable companies with headquarters in 
France and more than 500 employees, based on ESG criteria; 
Constellium made the list at #148.
Forbes  and Statista included us on their inaugural list of the 
world’s most female-friendly companies, after asking 85,000 
women in 40 countries to rate their employers on criteria such 
as pay equity, parental leave, and representation at executive 
levels.Two thumbs up
Constellium’s sustainability efforts have been recognized by 
ratings agencies and the press:
The CDP’s questionnaire and 
rating rules evolved in 2021, yet we 
successfully kept our B rating for 
climate change, and progressed in four 
ratings categories (risk disclosure, 
energy targets, business strategy, and 
financial planning). CDP also counted 
Constellium among its Supplier 
Engagement Leaders for climate 
change, with an A rating.For the third year in a row, we received 
an AA rating (on a scale of AAA-CCC) 
in the MSCI ESG Ratings1 assessment, 
maintaining our place in the top 8% of 
our sector (Metals and Mining - Non-
Precious Metals).We received the highest Ecovadis 
rating, Platinum, in 2020, putting us in 
the top 1%, and will have it reviewed 
again in 2022. 
 1. The use by Constellium of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a 
sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Constellium by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and 
without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.Planting connections  
between workers 
Our Van Buren site is hosting a program 
that puts office workers side by side with 
machine operators on the plant floor, 
and with great success. Every Friday, 
office workers can spend an hour with 
production-based colleagues, learning 
more about processes and what they do, 
and discussing ideas for improvement. 
Machine operator Lewis Cross said,  
“I like the fact that they all came aboard 
and learned things, to understand what  
we go through. Then we all come up with  
a better way of working.” 
39
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability 
C-TEC’s commitment
Our C-TEC R&D facility demonstrated its 
dedication to ESG with several initiatives in 
2021: holding employee workshops on 
climate change, giving its old computers to a 
nonprofit organization, and hosting 
awareness workshops to train employees on 
how to work alongside disabled colleagues. 
Thanks to measures such as green waste 
recovery and installing nesting boxes, C-TEC 
also obtained level 2 of the +NATURE charter, 
which encourages ecological action by 
companies that manage outdoor spaces.
1. Following an audit by France’s Fredon association
Ameri-can recycle more
In the U.S., the Aluminum Association and Can Manufacturers Institute (both of which 
count Constellium among their members) released a new report confirming that 
aluminium cans are the most sustainable beverage container of all, and setting new 
recycling targets. The U.S. lags behind other countries in can recycling, and the industry 
wants to catalyze action (e.g., pushing lawmakers to pass new container deposit laws) 
to increase rates to 70% by 2030 and 90% by 2050. Recycling cans is good for the 
environment and the economy, and an aluminium can is the easiest type of beverage 
container to recycle, arriving back on the shelf in only 60 days.The industry’s first 
sustainability-linked 
bonds issued by 
Constellium
In February and May 2021, 
Constellium issued two series 
of sustainability-linked bonds, 
with two performance targets 
tied to our sustainability 
strategy. The first is to  
reduce our Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas emissions 
intensity to equal or lower  
than 0.615 tCO2 equivalent  
per metric ton of sales in 2025. 
The second is to increase  
our recycled aluminium  
input to equal to or higher  
than 685 thousand metric  
tons by 2026. 
40
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability 
Assessing Material Sustainability Risks
Constellium conducts regular materiality 
analyses, to understand what topics are of 
greatest concern to our stakeholders, and 
align our actions accordingly.
Identifying and mitigating risks
Materiality assessments allow Constellium to identify how 
sustainability issues might affect our activities and the aluminium 
value chain in the short, medium, and long term. After determining 
risks, we consolidate, assess, and prioritize them. Our 2021 review, 
taking into account our business model and regulatory changes, 
showed no change compared to the previous year, and the 
sustainability risks remain the same.
Our first materiality assessment took place in 2014, when we 
surveyed top managers and external stakeholders. We broadened 
the scope in 2017-2018 by surveying nearly 100 internal and 100 
external stakeholders. In 2019, working with an independent third 
party and internal top managers, we conducted a sustainability risk 
analysis of our operations. 
We further expanded our assessment in 2020, with more rigorous 
analysis and deeper insights. A team led by Internal Audit and Internal 
Control (with input from Investor Relations, Finance, Purchasing, 
Sales, and Sustainability) studied the risks of climate change to our 
business, both direct impacts (e.g., extreme weather events) and 
indirect ones (e.g., changing customer expectations). We surveyed 
our sales and account managers about customer expectations 
regarding sustainability, and learned that business ethics, products 
from conflict areas, and responsible sourcing are all important 
matters of concern, in addition to the environment. Following an 
internal audit, we also updated our corruption risk map in 2020.
More extensive mapping of sustainability risk in 2021 
In 2021, we performed an in-depth analysis of our greenhouse gas 
Scope 3 emissions, assessing their quantity and the impact of our 
products. This information is of interest to our customers, and we 
conducted a detailed  analysis of their requirements regarding GHG 
emissions. Our sustainability risk map is now more comprehensive, 
including Human Rights, emissions other than greenhouse gases, 
and governance topics. We intend to increase our focus on the 
double materiality of our impacts.
Alignment with trade associations
Constellium participates in a number of associations, and we 
endeavor to align our sustainability efforts with those of the sector. 
One such association is European Aluminium, whose Sustainability 
Roadmap Towards 2025 is aligned with eight of the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (Constellium’s targets reflect the same SDGs). 
European Aluminium is currently looking at defining a 2030 roadmap.
As a member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), we 
are actively involved in its standards revision process, within the 
standards committee and the working groups, and have discussed 
issues such as biodiversity, human rights, and reducing GHG 
emissions in an attempt to limit global warming to 1.5o C. 
As the Covid-19 pandemic continues, we are responding to the 
needs of our sites regarding the health and safety of our employees, 
a topic that is always on our list of key materiality risks. Our response 
includes preventive measures and controls, such as social distancing, 
surface cleaning, mask wearing, workplace partitions, and, in certain 
cases, working from home (see pages 22-23 for more information).Buddy Stemple, Chairman of the Aluminum Association  
and CEO of Constellium Rolled Products in Ravenswood, 
West Virginia, at the Association’s fall meeting41
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability 
Constellium’s Significant Sustainability Risks and Opportunities1
1. Our sustainability risk analysis concluded that certain risks are not material to our business and, therefore, such risks are not addressed in our consolidated statement of non-financial 
performance. In particular, taking the nature of our business into account, we consider that combating food waste, combating food insecurity, respect for animal welfare, and responsible, fair 
and sustainable food policy do not constitute high risks for Constellium and do not justify a specific development in our consolidated statement of non-financial performance.Four pillars Sustainable Development Goals Risks and opportunities 
Products •  Developing products  
with environmental benefits
•  Recycling
•  Market regulatory changes
•  Customer satisfaction
People •  Employee health and safety
• Gender diversity
•  Talent attraction and retention
•  Giving back to communities
Operations • Emissions and waste
•  Energy and greenhouse  
gas emissions
Responsible 
Business• Business ethics
• Sustainable purchasing
• ASI certification42
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability 
Using Life Cycle Assessment to 
Understand Environmental Impacts
Life cycle assessment (LCA) reveals the 
environmental impact of a product at every 
phase, from mining to end of life.
An LCA helps us determine whether a product is worth manufacturing, 
and if the benefits of its downstream phase offset the impacts of 
production.
Our global LCA model calculates the carbon footprint and other 
environmental impacts from different life cycle phases of a product 
or activity, according to ISO 14040-44 standards. It studies the 
effects of our own activity (energy use, waste production, air and 
water emissions, water consumption) and those resulting from 
other stages (such as bauxite mining, alumina refining and metal 
production, transportation of raw material, end of life, and potential 
benefits from the product use phase.)  See page  46 for more details.The model allows us to gather data from product lines, sites, 
operating segments, and Constellium as a whole. It shows that our 
activity actually generates less than 20% of our products’ lifetime 
carbon emissions. 
In 2021, our purchasing team used an independent database and 
worked closely with our suppliers to improve our understanding of 
our Scope 3 emissions.1 
Based on 2021 data, metal sourcing (Scope 3) generates most of 
our GHG emissions. Energy (Scopes 1 and 2) and transportation 
(Scope 3) come next, with a much smaller footprint. 
Avoided  
emissions5 
-1.8 Mt CO2 eqProducts  
end-of-life  
recycling4 
-2.1 Mt CO2 eq2Metal input1  
6.1 Mt CO2 eq
Other Scope 3 
0.4 Mt CO2 eq   TOTAL3:
7.9
Mt CO2 eq 
(5.05 t CO2 eq/t  
shipped)
Energy  
(Scope 1 & 2)  
1.1 Mt CO2 eq
Transportation2 
0.3 Mt CO2 eq.
1. Emissions are divided into 3 scopes based on their origin and which activity caused them: Scope 1: direct emissions from sources we own or control, Scope 2: indirect emissions from production of the 
energy we purchase (electricity), Scope 3: all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that occur throughout Constellium’s value chain, including both upstream and downstream emissions.1 Including alloying elements and external supply of semi-products.
2 Including both upstream transportation and sold products delivery.
3 Following GHG protocol guidance, excluding “processing of sold products” and “use of sold products.”
4 Only accounting for the avoided emissions for primary metal content of sold products and accounting for treatment of sold products end of life.
5 Mostly associated to fuel consumption reduction from mass savings in transportation applications.43
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability 
Keeping Abreast of Market 
Regulatory Changes
Largely driven by climate change concerns, 
regulations continually evolve in the markets 
in which we operate. We monitor, anticipate, 
and adapt to changes that might negatively 
or positively affect our business.
Our challenges
We are currently monitoring a number of regulatory developments. 
The European Green Deal contains measures and regulations to 
reduce the European Union’s (EU) GHG emissions by 55% in 2030 
vs 1990, and to reach carbon neutrality by 2050. State Aid Guidelines 
for Environmental Protection and Energy (EEAG) offer a framework 
for member states to steer their energy policy. Sustainable Finance, 
or taking ESG into account when making investment decisions, is 
one of the Green Deal’s pillars.
In this context, the EU Taxonomy Climate Delegated Act was 
adopted in 2021 to help meet the EU’s 2030 climate and energy 
targets and those of the Green Deal. We are closely monitoring the 
precise scope of eligibility and applicability to Constellium.
The European Commission (EC) has also proposed a Carbon Border 
Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) to shield certain sectors against 
cheaper imports from countries with less strict climate policies. The 
EC entered into trilateral discussions with the European Parliament 
and member states, with the aim of gradually introducing the CBAM 
starting in 2023. After a three-year pilot phase, it is due to take effect 
in January 2026. In the commission proposal, the aluminium industry 
is included for direct emissions (Scope 1), covering the entire value 
chain except aluminium finished goods. 
1. Indirect compensation relates to financial measures in favor of sectors determined to be exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage; the costs of compensation are embedded in electricity prices.
As for carbon emissions, we are monitoring the EU’s CO2 Emissions 
Trading System. Phase 4, related to CO2 quota allowances, has 
been defined, and guidelines for indirect compensation1 issued. In 
the U.S., discussions to promote GHG reductions are starting at 
state and federal levels.
In the packaging sector in Europe, regulations such as the Circular 
Economy Action Plan mainly concern recycling, and we support 
potential new deposit laws to boost the recycling rate. In the U.S., 
where the beverage can recycling rate, even though higher than 
that of plastic bottles, is lower than in Europe, we support state and 
federal initiatives to promote deposits.
In the automotive and transportation markets, upcoming regulations 
on CO2 emissions reductions should favor materials that are light yet 
strong, driving the use of aluminium. The U.S. is discussing a notice 
of proposed rulemaking (NPRM), which would strengthen federal 
GHG emissions standards for passenger cars and light trucks over 
the next five years. 
Several regulations around chemical use and industrial emissions 
concern our manufacturing operations, such as REACH in the 
EU. Directive 2010/75 on industrial emissions regulates activities 
including recycling and casting.
Finally, we are following  the fast-changing non-financial reporting  
landscape, including the Securities and Exchange Commission’s 
expanding engagement with ESG matters, the progress on the 
new EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, and the EU’s 
taxonomy-related reporting obligations. We also monitor trade 
policies, which often converge with sustainability commitments, 
notably in the EU. 
Our policies and actions
Much of our regulatory monitoring and advocacy happens via 
industry and multi-stakeholder associations, where we have 
representatives in governance and participate in projects, working 
groups, and committees. More than 40 Constellium employees are 
involved in industry associations. 
We will continue to take part in associations and initiatives aimed at 
improving industry representation and sustainability in our markets. 
Our customers expect us to keep ahead of regulatory changes, and 
we help them find solutions to any new developments. 
For a list of associations and initiatives where Constellium is a 
member, please see page 91.Catherine Athènes, Vice President Group Sustainability and 
Public Affairs Europe, representing the aluminium industry 
at “Raw Materials Week”44
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability 
Sustainability Targets
1. 2021 results not available, but 2020 results indicate that we are on track to achieve this objective.In our 2011 Business and Sustainability Report, we committed to our first 
targets, and we added and modified a few of them along the road. Ten years 
later, we are able to report on our 
progress before we move to the next phase 
of our sustainability journey, with new targets to be announced in 2022. 
Achieved
We achieved or came 
extremely close to 
achieving the targets below.
Further improve  
our safety record
We reduced our Recordable 
Case Rate by 10% per annum 
with a value of 1.85, but did not 
reach our target of remaining 
under four serious injuries a 
year. We continue to be in the 
industry’s top quartile for safety 
results. 
Reduce production waste 
sent to landfill
We reduced our production 
waste going to landfill by 37% 
vs 2015, well beyond our 10% 
reduction target, thanks  
to the outstanding work of 
some of our facilities, especially 
Muscle Shoals and 
Ravenswood. 
Engage our people
We increased our employee 
satisfaction by 7 points above 
our 6 point increase target 
compared to 2014, thanks  
to increased training and 
development, and close 
communications and dialogue 
with our people.
Increase customer 
satisfaction
We conducted a customer 
survey every two years and 
implemented actions when 
needed. 
Build a standard for 
aluminium
Neuf-Brisach, Singen, 
Gottmadingen, and Dahenfeld 
are ASI certified, both for the 
Performance and the Chain of 
Custody Standards. On track
We are on track to achieve 
these targets, based on 
the current trajectory.
Boost beverage can 
recycling1
We are on track to reach an 
80% beverage can recycling 
rate in Europe, and just 
launched an ambitious 
program with the industry and 
our customers to increase the 
beverage can recycling rate in 
the U.S. and in Europe.
Reduce greenhouse  
gas intensity by 25%  
vs 2015 (2025 target)
In 2021, our GHG intensity for 
Scope 1 and 2 decreased 
14% vs 2015, putting us well 
on track for reaching our 25% 
reduction target.
Increase recycled input  
to 685,000 metric tons 
(2026 target)
Recycled aluminium 
accounted for 41%   
of our metal input in 2021  
(or 675,000 metric tons).
Not achieved
We did not achieve these targets, partly because of the Covid-19 crisis,  
but we have implemented strong recovery plans to get back on track.
Improve energy 
efficiency
We were not able to achieve 
our target of 10% energy 
efficiency improvement vs 
2015, and have put in place  
a targeted plan for 2025.Ensure sustainable 
purchasing
While we have made great 
progress in responsible 
sourcing, we achieved 62% 
certification of our Group 
spending vs a 70% target, 
and 88% of our suppliers 
signed our Code of Conduct 
(vs a target of 100%). Strengthen our 
communities
During the Covid-19 
pandemic, some of our sites 
stopped their community 
outreach; in 2021, 61% of our 
sites conducted a community 
program or event. We are 
working to reverse this trend 
in 2022. Aluminium is a remarkable material: light enough to crush by hand, sturdy 
enough to carry humans to the Moon. At Constellium, we transform 
aluminium in new ways, pushing its capabilities ever further. We explore 
its uses in applications from beverage cans to car hoods, create value 
throughout its life cycle, and expand its role in a lighter, brighter, more 
sustainable future.For a lighter, more 
resilient tomorrow,
we throw our weight behind 
aluminium today.46
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Products
Developing Products With 
Environmental Benefits
Our sustainability goals include the products 
we make. Not only must they meet our 
customers’ needs and solve any technical 
issues, but they must also address 
environmental concerns.
Our challenges
Our customers depend on us to provide superior products (often 
developed jointly), along with supply chain integration, technical 
support, and scrap recycling solutions. They expect our offerings to 
be on the cutting edge of innovation, and to reduce the environmental 
impact of their own products. 
Our policies and actions
One important way we achieve these improvements is by investing 
heavily in R&D, spending more than €39 million in 2021. As of 
December 31, 2021, the research and development center in 
Voreppe employed 234 people, of which 211 were scientists and 
“The sustainability of our 
processes and products 
constitutes a key driver for 
research and technology at 
Constellium, which we 
incorporate both as a 
validation filter to our ongoing 
R&D programs but also as a 
valuable source of new ideas 
and research opportunities.” 
Timothy Warner, Scientific Director, C-TEC, Constelliumtechnicians. The research technology center in Brunel, England, 
employed 49 people: 44 Constellium employees and 5 engineering 
apprentices. In addition, there were 21 employees from Brunel 
University and other academic partners working on Constellium 
innovation programs. The research and development center in 
Plymouth employed five people.
As part of the R&D process, we conduct a sustainability check on 
our products to assess their performance in terms of health and 
safety, energy, climate, social aspects, and waste, and with a sharp 
focus on recyclability. In case of need  we also carry out a Life Cycle 
Assessment, to reinforce the results.
3D modeling to optimize design and reduce tread plate 
weight for refrigerated trailers47
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Products
Lightweighting
In the sectors where we do business, lightweighting is one of 
aluminium’s biggest assets. 
Aerospace and Transportation—We lightweight aircraft 
by providing innovative rolled and extruded products, 
notably our market-leading Airware® aluminium-lithium 
alloys. In our development work, we look at how the 
transition to alternative and greener propulsion modes will 
impact material needs. We generally do this in partnership 
with aircraft manufacturers or large tier one companies, to 
ensure our innovative products will help our customers 
meet their targets, including their environmental objectives. 
We are also producing and developing rolled plates, coils, and 
sheets to lightweight ground transportation. As an example, 
we have decreased the thickness of a new tread plate for 
refrigerated trailers while keeping the same quality. Weighing 
20% less, it reduces CO2 emissions during production and 
use.
Packaging—We tailor our solutions to a variety of products, 
such as beverage and food cans, aerosols, closures, 
cosmetics, and luxury packaging. We have designed a 
beverage can that is around 10% lighter, with a 10% smaller 
carbon footprint. It will have an optimized dome (the 
heaviest part), be more resistant to internal pressure, and 
require less metal. The prototype is currently under review 
by a customer.  
Automotive—We offer a range of advanced solutions for 
lighter vehicles, such as our Constellium HSA6® high 
performance extrusions and Surfalex®, our rolled solution 
for high-quality stamped outer panels. 
In 2021, Constellium led three projects targeting the design 
and prototype of the next generation of aluminium-intensive 
battery enclosures for electric vehicles. These projects 
brought together a number of automotive manufacturers and 
suppliers to develop new architectural designs and flexible 
manufacturing concepts.
• The AL-ULEV project was successfully concluded early 
in the year, showcasing design concepts based on the 
Constellium HSA6® and Constellium HCA6® ultra high-
strength and crash-resistant alloy families. Applied to the 
design of structural aluminium battery enclosures, the 
alloys allowed us to meet protection targets during critical 
crash scenarios while being 25% lighter than designs 
based on conventional aluminium alloys.• The ongoing LIBERATE project employs remote laser 
welding and structural adhesive bonding to bring the AL-
ULEV concepts closer to industrialization. Using 
extrusions, sheets, and castings, LIBERATE proposes 
battery enclosure solutions capable of meeting more 
stringent crash requirements while securing further 
lightweighting and manufacturing cost reductions. Full-
scale prototypes were produced and successfully tested 
in 2021.
• Finally, the ALIVE project is developing novel 
architectures for scalable structural aluminium battery 
enclosures. The design of a first lightweight structural 
enclosure was completed, and its prototyping is in 
progress. Simultaneously, a modular manufacturing 
prototyping line is under construction at a new prototyping 
center. Constellium and its partners are also pursuing 
high recycled content versions of Constellium HSA6® 
and Constellium HCA6® alloys, to drastically reduce the 
embodied CO2 content of the aluminium billet.
In September, our  ISA3  joint project (involving Groupe Renault, 
ESI Group, Institut de Soudure, and University of Lorraine) 
successfully reached its first milestone, an aluminium door 
that is 15% lighter and much cheaper to produce than those 
currently in serial production.
In 2021, together with a partner, we launched Alumobility, an 
association of aluminium suppliers and technology specialists 
working to promote aluminium for the automotive industry. 
Alumobility is conducting two design studies that showcase 
the benefits of aluminium vs steel: a door based on a mid-size 
SUV steel door, and a top hat based on the Audi e-tron Body 
in White. Both include life cycle carbon footprint evaluations.
BEV battery enclosures presented at the 14th annual 
CENEX Light Carbon Vehicle event48
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Products
Materials recyclability
We are teaming up with customers to create end products that 
incorporate post-consumer scrap and facilitate pre-consumer 
scrap closed-loop recycling.
Packaging—With our high-end cosmetics customers in 
Europe, we made progress in developing an alloy 
containing scrap, to serve as coils for lipstick sleeves and 
perfume caps. We are also working on developing 
recyclable, mono-material cosmetics packaging, since 
multi-material packaging is very challenging to recycle. 
Packaging —In the beverage can market, we are designing 
a new alloy for lids that accepts more scrap than existing 
solutions. The one used to make can bodies already has a 
high scrap allowance. The prototype is now being tested at 
industrial scale. 
Automotive—W e are looking to improve the life cycle 
carbon footprint of solutions for Internal Combustion Engine 
(ICE) Vehicles and Battery Electric Vehicles (BEV) by using 
a single aluminium alloy family. For example, for inner 
closure applications, we have developed a highly formable 
6XXX solution named Formalex® which forms a perfect pair 
with Constellium’s 6XXX outer skin solution, Surfalex®. By 
eliminating the need for alloy sorting, we more efficiently 
recycle the scrap from production and end-of-life vehicles, 
avoiding pain points such as dismantling, shredding, and 
density sorting.
Aerospace —We are looking to achieve closed-loop 
recycling schemes for our Airware® alloys while maintaining 
their high quality and performance. We have improved our 
casting processes, so that we are able to recycle the 
Airware® segregated scrap of our customers.
Production process improvements
Constellium is also improving sustainability by optimizing 
process efficiency, looking at alternative energy sources, 
controlling effluents, eliminating hazardous substances, and 
pursuing options to avoid landfilling. 
As part of our 2030 strategy, we have launched DAFNE 2, 
an initiative to investigate the most promising alternative 
technologies for casting. By capitalizing on our assets and 
competencies, this project aims to develop a zero- or low-
emission casthouse of the future for Constellium.
The DAFNE 2 project aims to develop zero-  
or low-emission casthousesAllowing more types of scrap in our alloys is an 
important step towards the circular economy49
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Products
Boosting Aluminium Recycling
Recycling is extremely important to the 
aluminium value chain, as remelting scrap 
from products such as beverage cans 
generates fewer emissions than producing 
virgin metal. In addition to recycling a 
significant quantity of aluminium, 
Constellium undertakes many initiatives to 
increase global recycling rates.
Our challenges
Aluminium recycling requires only 5% of the energy used to produce 
primary metal, while also avoiding waste production and resource 
depletion and delivering up to 95% in CO2 savings. Aluminium is 
infinitely recyclable.
Generally, manufacturers, customers, governments, local 
authorities, and waste management companies establish processes 
for collecting used beverage cans and other end-of-life aluminium 
products. 
The main obstacle to aluminium recycling is the availability of post-
consumer scrap. In fact, high-volume aluminium applications such 
as buildings and vehicles have a long lifespan, so the quantity of end-
of-life aluminium scrap is limited to what was put on the market years 
ago. Combined with ongoing market growth, this makes it impossible 
for recycling alone to meet the current demand for aluminium.
Our policies and actions
We seek to boost recycling in four different ways:
• Working with stakeholders to increase scrap collection rates 
• Using partnerships for better scrap sorting   
• Creating better and more efficient closed recycling loops
• Improving our own recycling processes, including developing 
more scrap-tolerant alloys
Recycling at our plants —Constellium’s plants have significant 
recycling capacity. In the U.S., our site in Muscle Shoals, 
Alabama, operates one of the largest and most efficient used 
beverage cans recycling facilities in the world. Our plant in 
Ravenswood, West Virginia, recycles pre-consumer scrap.
In France, we kicked off a project at our Neuf-Brisach plant to 
increase our recycling capacity of automotive and packaging 
products by more than 130,000 metric tons. Our Issoire site features 
two Airware® industrial casthouses and recycles scrap throughout 
the manufacturing chain. Děčín, in the Czech Republic, is a facility for 
hard alloy extrusions that also has recycling capabilities. Our Valais, 
Switzerland, facility produces billets and slabs from pre-consumer 
scrap.
Pedal to the Metal: Accelerating Vehicle 
Recycling 
Automotive scrap is high on our recycling agenda. In 
2021, Constellium took part in the EF.ORE project (in 
French, “Etude de la faisabilité de l’optimisation du 
recyclage des résidus métalliques issus des véhicules 
hors d'usage”). It studied ways to implement a more 
eco-efficient recycling loop for vehicles’ end of life, such 
as high-tech metal collection and sorting processes. 
Partners included ArcelorMittal, Galloo, CTIF, IRT-M2P, 
and MTB.Casthouse furnace at our site in Neuf-Brisach50
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Products
Our Recycling Capacity
We issued two series of sustainability-linked bonds 
in 2021,  which included a performance target of 
685 thousand metric tons of recycled aluminium 
input in 2026.  We expect to substantially expand our 
recycling capacity  in Europe, notably through a major 
investment  at our Neuf-Brisach site. On average, 
recycled metal input, calculated by following GRI 301-2 
guidance, accounted for 41% of our metal input in 
2021 (or  675 thousand metric tons). Post-consumer 
scrap (generated at the end of life phase of finished 
goods) accounted for  18% of metal input, while the 
rest of the recycled metal input was pre-consumer 
production scrap (generated downstream from 
Constellium’s operations). In line with the ISO 14021 
standard,  internally generated scrap is not accounted 
for in the recycled metal input.  
Importantly, Constellium does not believe that recycled 
content should be the only relevant indicator for the 
environmental performance of aluminium products. 
We also work to ensure that valuable resources are 
collected and recycled at a product’s end of life.
1
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2018 2019  
80% beverage  
can recycling rate  
in EuropeEurope beverage can 
recycling rate 76% 76%1
2026 TARGET INDICATOR 2020 2021
Recycled aluminium input 
equal to or higher than 685 
thousand metric tonsRecycled  
aluminium  
input586 
thousand metric tons  
recycled input675  
thousand metric tons  
recycled inputBetter recycling through partnerships—We continually 
increase our own recycling capacity while working to improve 
recycling through partnerships with customers, associations, 
research centers, and other stakeholders.
• As members of European Aluminium, the Aluminum Association 
(U.S.), and regional and national organizations, we work with 
different stakeholders on recycling and sustainability issues.
• As part of the European Aluminium Packaging Group, and 
together with our customers in Metal Packaging Europe, we 
launched a recycling roadmap with the goal of recycling 100% 
of aluminium cans in Europe by 2030.
• We collaborate with Every Can Counts® on communication and 
collection programs to increase beverage can recycling rates 
in Europe.
• We work with local organizations, such as UK-based Alupro, 
France Aluminium Recyclage, and Spain’s Arpal, to develop 
and promote collection schemes, including deposit return 
systems, in each market.
• In the U.S., the aluminium can remains the most recycled 
beverage package, but the recycling rate has decreased 
slightly over the past few years to reach only 45.2% in 2020. 
We have endorsed ambitious targets announced by the U.S. 
trade group Can Manufacturers Institute (CMI): 70% by 2030, 
80% by 2040, and 90% by 2050. Together with the Aluminum 
Association and CMI, we will work in the coming months and 
years on policy advocacy and other efforts to move the 
aluminium can recycling rate in a positive direction, including 
an initiative for new container deposit laws at state level.
• We work with our automotive customers to segregate scrap 
from 5xxx and 6xxx alloy families and establish closed-loop 
recycling schemes.
Our resultsSites Recycling capacity in 2021  
(metric tons per year)
Muscle Shoals, U.S. 340,000 tons of post- and pre-consumer scrap
Neuf-Brisach, France 160,000 tons of post- and pre-consumer scrap
Valais, Switzerland 30,000 tons of pre-consumer scrap
Issoire, France 20,000 tons of pre-consumer scrap
Děčín, Czech 
Republic20,000 tons of post- and pre-consumer scrap
Ravenswood, U.S. 20,000 tons of post- and pre-consumer scrap
1.Figures published by European Aluminium in 2021 at: https://www.european-aluminium.eu/media/3401/european-aluminium-mpe-alubevcan-2019-recycling-rate_press-release-16-december.pdf51
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Products
Working to Ensure Customer 
Satisfaction
results. In 2021, we used a new online platform to conduct these 
surveys, receiving twice as many responses as in 2018. We saw 
marked improvements in our Net Promoter Scores (NPS), for which 
customers are asked if they would recommend Constellium as a 
supplier. 
Our Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products (P&ARP) business 
unit received an overall NPS score of 42.7%,  a 7.7 percentage point  
improvement over 2018. Product quality and a competent workforce 
both contributed to driving up this score, and we expect improvement 
on communication about sustainability topics.
For Aerospace and Transportation (A&T), our overall NPS score was 
40.2%, a 22.2 percentage point improvement compared to 2018. 
Customers particularly appreciated A&T’s flexibility and support 
during the early days of the Covid-19 crisis, and our adhering to 
delivery schedules as closely as possible. Much of our business success comes from 
our strong relationships with customers. We 
survey their opinions and welcome their 
input, to better understand and respond to 
their needs.
Our challenges
We strive to maintain close connections with our customers, so we 
can personalize the products and services we provide, integrate 
their expectations into our long-term plans, and build durable 
collaborations. 
Our policies and actions
We conduct biennial surveys of our customers in each of our three 
business units (BUs), and tailor our offerings in accordance with the 
Laminium® is a high-quality anodized architectural application, here installed on the Hangzhou Asian Games Stadium52
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Products
Our results
1
 2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2020 2021
Conduct a customer 
satisfaction survey  
every two years in  
all business unitsConduct a customer 
satisfaction survey in  
all business unitsNo survey was performed 
due to Covid-19. An internal 
survey was conducted 
regarding customers' 
sustainability inquiriesAll business units 
conducted customer 
surveys1In regard to Automotive Structures & Industry (AS&I), the survey 
focused on the customers of the Děčín plant, who gave us an overall 
NPS score of 53.7%. The BU’s best performers were commercial 
support and product offering, while we need to improve operational 
reliability and claim management.
2021 stories of successful partnerships 
• Specialties: Constellium Singen and C-TEC worked for years 
to develop Laminium®, a high-quality anodized architectural 
application offering perfect color consistency. With our Chinese 
partner, Rehongda, we installed Laminium® on several 
buildings in China, including a gymnasium for the 2022 
Hangzhou Asian Games. The customer rewarded us with the 
title of Excellent Supplier, and the influential People’s Daily 
newspaper featured the project on its front page.
• Automotive: A worldwide battery electric vehicle platform 
chose Constellium as the global raw material aluminium 
supplier for the battery box plate (bottom and top cover) and 
the European supplier for battery cooling.
• Packaging: Our Neuf-Brisach plant worked with Crown 
Bevcan EMEA on a new method for returning scrap to the site 
for recycling. It involves metal pallets of certain sizes that can 
be moved by different kinds of forklifts, for stacking scrap more 
easily and securely, and more efficient delivery.
• Aerospace:  Constellium was honored to receive a mission 
patch from Blue Origin, who said it was “a token of our 
appreciation and respect for your team’s contributions, 
commitment, and perseverance in helping Blue Origin achieve 
its first human flight for the New Shepard program.” Constellium 
also provides two advanced Airware® alloys for the upper and 
lower stages of Blue Origin’s New Glenn rocket.We worked with Crown to develop better ways to return 
scrap
1. For AS&I, the survey respondents were all customers of the  Děčín plant.53
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability People
Hiring, Training, and Engaging 
Top Talent
In 2021, we continued to stay close to our employees at Group and 
local levels. Managers made daily rounds of the shop floors and 
held regular meetings with employees. Our internal communications 
efforts included monthly webinars, our digital magazine LIVE, and 
our weekly newsletter myConstelliumNews. 
Global Employee Survey —In 2021, we held our biennial Global 
Employee Survey to measure employee engagement. Three-
quarters of our global workforce participated, and satisfaction 
scores were above 50% for all categories. We are especially 
proud of our Environment, Health, and Safety category that 
received a favorable score of 80%, reflecting our commitment to 
our employees during the pandemic. Compared with our 2018 
survey, we made progress in important categories such as 
company culture and organizational efficiency. The results were 
shared with local sites at the end of the year, and each one will 
develop an action plan based on this feedback.
Learning and development—In 2019, we created the Global 
Engineering Development Program, building an internal pipeline 
by developing the technical, leadership, and business skills of 
Constellium’s early-career engineers. After a brief hiatus due to 
Covid-19, the second session started in fall 2021, and we are 
back on track to have a new session every year.
In 2021, we launched two pilot sessions of our new Leadership 
Development Program (LDP). This is a global initiative to create 
a common leadership culture at Constellium, leverage our scale, 
and better drive the business. Over a nine-month period, it focuses 
on discrete skills and behavioral shifts through mixed learning 
methodologies. Also in 2021, we launched our mentorship program 
for high-potential female talents within Constellium. (For details, see 
page 55)
Constellium is only as good as our people, 
which is why we dedicate significant 
resources to attracting the best candidates, 
staying close to our employees, developing 
their skills, and motivating them to spend 
their careers with us. 
Our challenges
In our industry, competition is fierce for finding and retaining a 
highly skilled workforce. With changing demographics, we must hire 
enough people to succeed those who will retire in the years to come, 
both in our plants and among our key management. Moreover, we 
must ensure that our people can adapt to evolving technological 
and industrial trends. We respond to all these challenges through 
training and development, close communication with our people, 
and building employee engagement. 
Our policies and actions
Engaging our people through communication —Constellium’s 
values (see page 13) provide the framework for our relationships 
with customers, suppliers, partners, and one another. We embed 
these values in all our major talent initiatives, and make them 
part of our annual performance review process.“Constellium is thoughtful and 
balanced in responding to 
changes in workplaces norms, 
for example, working from 
home, or diversity.” 
From our 2021 employee survey
We renovated our Paris corporate headquarters in 2021,  
so our employees can now enjoy a more collaboration-
friendly environment54
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability People
In France, Constellium employed a total of 146 disabled people at the 
end of 2021, providing them with specialized equipment. Our French 
sites undertake a range of different measures around disabilities. For 
example, since 2019,  Issoire has permitted employees with disabled 
children (21 employees) to work 80% of the time while receiving a 
full-time salary, and provides the same allowance to 11 disabled 
workers who are within three years of retirement. At Neuf-Brisach, 
the supplier who repairs our pallets exclusively hires disabled 
people. At C-TEC, during the “European Week for the Employment 
of People with Disabilities 2021,” we communicated daily about 
different aspects of the subject to our employees. Our Ussel site is 
working with local agencies to adapt jobs to different abilities.
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2021
A six-point increase  
in employee satisfaction  
compared to 20142  
Global Employee SurveyEmployee satisfaction  
rate in the biennial  
Global Employee Survey3‘+7 
point increase vs 2014
1. French metal and mining industry association.
2. The survey was conducted in 2014 but results were published in 2015
3. Employees of joint-ventures are not included in the biannual employees survey.Our resultsPromoting social dialogue —We encourage our people to freely 
express their views and opinions within the Group. Open dialogue 
with employee representatives is critical to the success of our 
operations and compliance with employee rights regulations. We 
do our utmost to create favorable conditions for employer-
employee relationships, and to reach formal agreements that are 
fair to all. Many of our employees belong to unions or equivalent 
bodies, or are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 
Attracting talent and encouraging education —At Ravenswood, 
our team has been working to solve a shortage of skilled 
candidates by partnering with a local college, West Virginia 
University Parkersburg. The plant welcomed 20 local students 
into a program called “Constellium Track of Electrical or 
Mechanical Trades.” After two years, they will graduate with 
associate degrees, and hopefully pursue their careers at 
Constellium.
At Muscle Shoals, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding 
with the University of North Alabama (UNA) in 2020, offering our 
employees a 20% discount on all undergraduate and graduate 
degree programs (online or traditional). To date, five employees 
have registered for classes. As an official Corporate Philanthropy 
Partner of the UNA, the plant is making an annual contribution to 
the school’s Engineering Technology Student Support Fund, which 
provides resources to students based on need. Five engineering 
students signed up for the scholarship in 2021.
In 2021, Constellium Issoire signed a Master Class agreement with 
the Lycée Sainte-Claire Deville d'Issoire and the UIMM1 Auvergne to 
host a professional maintenance baccalaureate class at the factory. 
Over the course of a week, our employees gave high school students 
a tour of the different aluminium processing professions.  
Valuing the abilities of all —At Constellium, we give equal 
opportunities to people with disabilities, and seek to adapt our 
work environments to their needs. Our sites in Singen, 
Gottmadingen, and Dahenfeld, Germany, employ 109 disabled 
employees in all, and provide equipment such as hearing aids, 
ergonomic chairs, and customized security shoes.  
We encourage our people to freely and professionally 
express their views and opinions within the Group55
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability People
Promoting Gender Diversity
2) Career path and promotion—Human resources and senior 
leadership are paying closer attention to female talent during 
their Global Talent Reviews. Also, the first group to take our new 
mentorship program for high-potential female talent gave it extremely 
positive feedback, commenting that it boosted their confidence 
to take on challenges. In a survey, 100% of mentors and 96% of 
mentees said they saw value in the program. A second group is 
planned for March 2022. 
3) Culture and work practices—Seeking to create an environment 
where women feel secure and supported, we took action in 2021 to 
ensure that there were adequate female facilities such as lockers and 
restrooms. We offer e-learning courses and educational materials 
on unconscious bias, diversity, and inclusion, and also cover these 
subjects during the formal training of middle managers and high-
potential engineers. We further promote diversity by encouraging 
internal communication, focus groups, and networking groups. 
4) Pay and merit pay equity—We do not support any gender-based 
pay discrimination and ensure that our employees are paid equally 
for equal jobs. Using third-party data, we benchmark our salaries 
against the external market in promotions, transfers, and new hire 
pay.
Gender equality index in France—French law requires all companies 
with at least 50 employees to use a gender equality index to measure 
salary gaps. All of our French sites report their index. In 2021, all 
performed well on pay equality, promotions, and women’s salary 
increases, and each one obtained a score above the required 
minimum of 75/100.1 Once again, we obtained a nearly perfect score 
of 99/100 for our Paris corporate headquarters. 
We continue to assess our needs and make recommendations for 
greater diversity initiatives within the organization.
Our results
In 2021, the percentage of women in our workforce remained stable 
at 13%, the percentage of new female hires was 24%, and we had 
21% of women in professional and management roles at Group 
level. We are working in particular to increase the number of women 
in management positions throughout the Group.We believe Constellium’s workforce should 
reflect the society around us, representing 
different genders and offering equal 
employment opportunities to all. 
Our challenges
We are taking active measures to make our company more diverse, 
and are committed to giving the same respect and opportunities to 
all people regardless of age, gender, race, ethnicity, religion, ability, 
or sexual orientation. We know that  diversity offers companies a 
distinct advantage, and have identified a significant gap in gender 
diversity in our workplaces. The steps we are taking to correct this 
disparity include increased diversity in hiring, supporting women’s 
career development, putting more women in leadership roles, and 
ensuring equitable pay practices.
Our policies and actions
Constellium’s  Diversity Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Program —
Our governance model has multiple layers to ensure we achieve 
our goals. A steering committee (including Executive Committee 
members) oversees diversity initiatives and monitors progress 
against Key Performance Indicators.  A core team coordinates 
action plans and implements work streams with local sites/
functions/business units. We are establishing country-level 
coordination to stimulate local initiatives in countries where we 
have several plants. 
This multilayered approach allows us to cover  four main pillars:
1) Recruitment and retention—We deploy an array of actions aimed 
at making Constellium more attractive to join or stay in, especially for 
women. We launched a global referral bonus program to leverage 
our employees’ networks and recruit a diversity of skilled, committed 
candidates.  We offer a global minimum of 16 weeks of paid maternity 
leave. On January 1, 2022, our U.S. and Mexican sites also started 
offering a four-week paid parental leave for new fathers and adoptive 
parents. In addition, the U.S. sites started offering a childcare 
employer subsidy to harmonize our benefits and address recruitment 
challenges.  In 2022, we ar e focusing on retention by introducing stay 
interviews and exit interview intelligence. All our communications 
materials have gender neutral guidelines.
1. For gender equality index scores per site, please see the following link:  https://www.constellium.com/index-egalite-femmes-hommes-et-principaux-indicateurs-des-sites-francais56
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability People
Women taking their place on the line
Isabelle is a pioneer: the first woman to work as a foundry operator 
at our Issoire plant. Hired in 2018, she will soon finish her training. 
"Didier, my tutor, has been at my side all along the way. Currently, 
I’m learning how to manage startups and shutdowns. It's a team 
effort: transforming aluminium from a liquid to a solid state requires 
vigilance and a lot of know-how, and our job is not routine. I have 
always been treated with respect. I am convinced that a woman 
can do this job as well as a man, and that mentalities are changing."Isabelle
Morgane was first hired by Constellium in 2006 as a production 
operator. She eventually left the job, then discovered the foundry and 
decided to get her CACES certificate, which allows her to operate 
industrial machinery. In 2021, Constellium hired her again, as the 
first woman working in the Montreuil-Juigné foundry. "I like that it’s 
not assembly line work,” she says. “It’s a very technical job, with the 
added bonus of a close-knit environment. When I finish my training, 
I'll do exactly what my male colleagues do.”Morgane
Nathalie
After she was hired in March 2018, Nathalie became the first woman 
to work at our Ussel foundry. She and 11 co-workers  benefited from 
a 14-month training program at Constellium. Both theoretical and 
practical, it allowed her to discover the range of jobs available at the 
company, and to acquire a deeper knowledge about this sector of the 
industry. She learned rigor, versatility, and organization, which have 
all served her well at the foundry. She notes that her job also requires 
good physical condition, since she walks between 5 and 10 km per 
day. Nathalie is proud to be working here, one of the only women 
in a world of men, saying that “melting is the birth of a piece—the 
texture and color of a hot alloy make it a nearly magical moment.”57
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability People
Giving Back to Our Communities
Our policies and actions
As part of our 2021 sustainability program, each one of our sites aims 
to carry out at least one community event per year.
An ongoing initiative of our U.S. sites is Constellium CARES, 
whereby dedicated teams choose among employee suggestions 
for community projects. One example in 2021 was at Muscle Shoals, 
where employees collected donations for a local school system’s 
literacy program. At Bowling Green, they donated school supplies 
to classrooms before the start of the school year. And at a blood 
drive at our Ravenswood site, hosted with the American Red Cross, 
employees broke the plant's record, donating 34 units.
At Livonia, Plymouth, and Van Buren, our people supported St. Jude 
Children's Research Hospital in their annual 5k walk/run (virtual this 
year), raising more than $3,000 to help defeat childhood cancer and 
other life-threatening diseases. In October, several Constellium sites Every Constellium site is part of a 
community, and we take our responsibility 
as neighbors very seriously. We make 
efforts to hire around us, and we organize or 
facilitate ways for our employees to 
volunteer in local events.
Our challenges
With 27 sites on three continents, Constellium has a physical 
presence in a range of local communities. We recognize the 
importance of connecting, giving, and creating a positive impact on 
the lives of those around us.  
On October 14, Constellium Bowling Green went pink to raise awareness about breast cancer58
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability People
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2020 2021
At least one community 
activity per site every year% of sites with at least one 
community program or 
event52%
of sites1 conducted a community 
program or event61%
of sites conducted a community 
program or eventOur resultsmarked Breast Cancer Awareness month. Our teams at Bowling 
Green, White, and Plymouth wore pink to raise awareness, while Van 
Buren handed out t-shirts and wristbands as part of “Pink Out The 
Plant” days. In France, Issoire employees joined in the Issoir'Ose 
run against cancer. 
Some initiatives addressed environmental concerns. Nine employees 
at Dahenfeld, in Germany, participated in the local "Cycling for a 
Better Climate" competition. Over 21 days, the team biked nearly 
1,550 km, avoiding 228 kg of CO2 emissions, as compared to 
other forms of transportation. To raise environmental awareness 
in Žilina, Slovakia, employees received waste bags printed with 
“greener future” for picking up litter in their local communities, with 
an award to incentivize them. Žilina also organized a summer camp 
for employees’ children, helping with childcare and giving the kids a 
chance to participate in activities such as a “Children's Olympics.”
Social insertion is another important topic for us. The HC San Rafael 
is a care center for people with intellectual disabilities near our Vigo 
site, in Spain. It includes a small welding workshop, and our plant 
took on some of the welders as interns, giving them exposure to a 
work environment while increasing their employability. In France, 
our C-TEC research center donated 22 laptops to WeeeFund, an 
association that reconditions computers and makes them available 
to people or structures in financial difficulty. 
At the German sites Gottmadingen and Singen, our employees 
made wishes come true for around 80 kids at a local children’s home, 
buying them gifts from their Christmas wish lists just in time for the 
holidays.
 For three weeks in June and July, the Constellium 
Dahenfeld team took part in Stadtradeln, biking 
approximately 1,550 km and avoiding 228 kg  
of CO2 emissions
1. The list of sites was updated for 2020 to match the 2021 list and the KPI has been recalculated to match 2021: three sites have been added (which had previously been regarded as too small to be 
included), two sites were merged, and one was removed due to the very small number of employees.59
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability People
Respecting Human Rights
Constellium is fully committed to respecting 
the value and dignity of every individual. We 
do our utmost to ensure inclusivity, safety, 
health, and equal working conditions for all.
Our challenges
Through our policies, assessments, and training, we take careful 
measures to identify and prevent potential risks that our activities or 
business relationships might pose to human rights.
Our policies and actions
We have aligned our human rights policy with the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the 
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Performance Standard. 
After holding a global workshop to identify possible human rights 
risks in 2019, we realized that the greatest risks were in our supply chain and among our onsite contractors. In our own operations, we 
identified risks to health and safety, the environment, and diversity 
(specifically gender).
We created in 2019 a heatmap showing the likelihood and severity 
of each risk, which was validated by the Executive Committee.1 
We are now undertaking an action plan to mitigate the risks. We 
are addressing our supply chain risks through our Responsible 
Supply Chain Management Policy and our participation in the ASI. 
To counter risks of discrimination, we are implementing a Diversity 
Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Program ( see page  55) and providing 
training on our Worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct, 
including an e-learning course that covers human and labor rights.
One good example of our efforts to respect human rights and 
integrate ASI standards into our business practices is at our Neuf-
Brisach site, where we currently have a project to increase recycling 
capacity ( see page  49). We conducted a social and human rights 
impact assessment with an onsite workshop organized by the 
project team, representing numerous functions. They identified 
potential risks to different groups of stakeholders (e.g., workers, 
local communities) that might occur during various stages of the 
project: concept and construction, ramping up of operations, normal 
operations. After rating the possibility and gravity of these risks, 
the project team identified measures to significantly reduce their 
likelihood. For instance, after it was determined that female workers’ 
needs might be overlooked, actions were taken to create a female-
friendly work environment.
1. Constellium's 2020 Business and Sustainability report, page 59.60
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Operations
Curtailing Our Landfilled  Waste
Seven of our plants are responsible for more than 95% of our 
landfilled production waste: Muscle Shoals, Ravenswood, and 
Van Buren (U.S.); Issoire, Neuf-Brisach, and Ussel (France); and 
Děčín (Czech Republic). Each has its own organization and targets, 
according to its  location and activity. 
The measures we are taking to control waste and increase recycling 
include more precise data collection, improved waste segregation, 
and collaborating with partners to find recycling methods for different 
waste streams. We are communicating about the importance of 
recycling to our employees, training them to correctly sort waste 
and work as a team to reduce our environmental footprint. 
Two major challenges remain. One is dealing with production waste 
categories, such as flue gas dust, for which there is no technical 
recycling method in Europe for now. The other is municipal waste in 
the U.S., which we cannot recycle without local structures in place. We 
are working with our networks and partners to find solutions for both. 
Our results
We hit our 2021 target and sustained the excellent results we obtained 
in 2020 (regardless of that year’s production drop due to Covid-19). 
When production rose again, we maintained our higher recycling rates 
and generated 37% less landfilled production waste than in 2015. 
Muscle Shoals was once again a standout, generating 12% less 
landfilled production waste in 2021 than in 2020, thanks to our 
workers’ efforts to segregate major types of waste. A contracted 
supplier continues to help Muscle Shoals find solutions for recycling 
everything from refractory bricks to sludge oil. 
Ravenswood also maintained its impressive recycling rate when 
production volumes increased in 2021. A recycling committee at 
Ravenswood holds weekly waste segregation walks to enhance 
employee awareness and identify any issues, and each work center 
has its own recycling station. 
Van Buren’s program to improve waste management was launched in 
early 2019. In 2021, the program was supported by a new contractor 
which helped the plant to reorganize its waste segregation and to 
install a new compactor. Our Ussel site continues to manage its sand 
recycling effectively.
Our results
In 2021, we kept up our good work in 
reducing landfilled waste, building upon the 
considerable progress we made the 
previous year.
Our challenges
A number of our sites generate landfilled waste in the course of their 
operations. We are working hard to limit it through different initiatives 
for more efficient recycling and reuse.
Our policies and actions
Constellium already recycles 87% of its waste, but we want to 
do even more. Our  EHS FIRST  policy and EHS Directives and 
Guidelines serve as blueprints for us to boost our material reuse 
and recycling, and reduce landfilled waste. 
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2021
Reduce production waste 
(construction waste excluded)  
going to landfill by 10% vs 2015% change in quantity of production 
waste sent to landfill-37%
vs 2015Thanks to improved sorting, Muscle Shoals reduces  
its landfilled waste year after year61
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Operations
Reducing Our Energy 
Consumption and GHG Emissions
Our policies and actions
We have been disclosing our energy efficiency and CO2 performance 
on an annual basis for many years, and monitoring energy efficiency 
on a quarterly basis through our EHS management system.
Thanks to our energy efficiency program, we saved approximately 
34 thousand metric tons of CO2 equivalent in 2021 as compared to 
2015. We want to go further, and undertook several initiatives in 2021 
to help define our 2030 objectives.
We focused on developing targets and a solid plan, making a 
company-wide effort to define actions that would enhance our 
energy efficiency. All concerned managers and experts from our 
business units, plants, and corporate functions actively participated 
in understanding, defining, and planning energy savings to improve 
our performance.
To hit the ground running, we have already started training, involving, 
and inspiring managers and other key people in the organization. 
One major endeavor has been to align benchmark levels for the 
different kinds of equipment in our plants, along with assessing the 
needs and investments required to reach them. 
An important way for us to indirectly reduce emissions is by improving 
the life cycle performance of end products. We can do this through 
better product design—for example, making lighter parts for vehicles 
to reduce fuel consumption. Another way is by recycling pre- and 
post-consumer aluminium scrap, since recycling emissions are 
much lower than those from primary metal production. Life cycle 
assessment demonstrates the benefits of both approaches.
As of 2022, GHG emissions reduction will be a component of 
incentive compensation for all managers and professionals.The year 2021 was noteworthy for the 
challenges we faced and the achievements 
we made. On the one hand, the effects of 
Covid-19 included an energy crisis and a 
shortage of supplies. On the other, we 
reassessed our efforts at CO2 mitigation and 
disclose our Scope 3 emissions in this 
report for the very first time.
Our challenges
Climate change remains a huge challenge for many companies. 
In 2021, the IPCC Working Group 1’s contribution to the Sixth 
Assessment Report (AR6) emphasized the link between human 
activities and climate change. We acknowledge this report and are 
committed to improving our emissions footprint with continuous 
improvements, investments in the short and medium term, and 
innovative new technologies in the long term. 
The impact of Covid-19 is another issue that continued to dominate 
2021. While some of our markets have been recovering, the 
economy’s sudden surge led to other challenges, including a 
shortage of semiconductors that slowed the automotive industry, 
and a shortage of alloying elements due to the Chinese energy crisis. 
Moreover, the conditions of the past year caused large swings in 
production, making it difficult for us to optimize equipment use and 
complicating our efforts at energy and emissions reduction. In 2021, 
our total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions amounted to  1.1 milli on 
metric tons, a 5% increase as compared to 2020. At the same 
time, our production volumes increased by 10%, meaning that our 
intensity performance improved by 5%. 
We intend to keep expanding our recycling efforts, as recycling 
produces fewer emissions than the use of primary aluminium. 
While our Scope 1 and 2 emissions1 increase when we recycle 
more (despite our best-in-class technology), there is a substantial 
reduction in our Scope 3 emissions.
1. Scope 1: direct emissions from sources we own or control, Scope 2: indirect emissions from production of the energy we purchase (electricity).62
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Operations
Disclosing Scope 3 emissions 
We disclose our Scope 3 emissions for the first time in this report, 
as part of our commitment to publicly manage and reduce them. 
By mapping these emissions, we can help customers control their 
supply chain footprints and achieve their targets.
Our average Scope 3 emissions are  4.4 t CO2/t shipped metal, taking 
the GHG Protocol’s different reporting categories2 into account. Our 
upstream Scope 3 emissions amounted to 6.8 million metric tons 
CO2 eq (86% of total emissions, see graph above), with 89% of total 
Scope 3 emissions (6.1 Mton) due to our procurement of primary 
aluminium, and the rest dominated by the transport of raw materials 
and products.  Our Scope 3 metal footprint intensity remains low 
compared to the global average3 intensity since we are sourcing 
from lower carbon emitting aluminium suppliers.
Emissions from primary aluminium are outside our control, but we 
can still impact our Scope 3 footprint by increasing recycling. In this 
way, we move emissions from third party (primary) producers to our 
own plants, folding our previous Scope 3 into our Scope 1 and 2. 
The planet gains, as recycling only uses 5% of the energy required 
by primary production.
757
438
1,194752
429
1,181745
438
1,183680
367
1,047733
364
1,097
2015 2018 2019
2020 2021
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1+202004006008001,0001,2001,400
757
438
1,194752
429
1,181745
438
1,183680
367
1,047733
364
1,097
2015 2018 2019
2020 2021
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1+202004006008001,0001,2001,400
0.808
0.7700.7440.732
0.698
Scope 1 Scope 2
Scope 1+2 2025 T arget2015 2018 2019 2020 2021—0.1000.2000.3000.4000.5000.6000.7000.8000.900
757
438
1,194752
429
1,181745
438
1,183680
367
1,047733
364
1,097
2015 2018 2019
2020 2021
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1+202004006008001,0001,2001,400Greenhouse gas emissions (kt CO2 eq) 
  2015
  2018  2019
  2020  2021“Establishing an energy 
consumption benchmark for 
our operations made us 
realize how much we can 
reduce CO2 emissions and 
also save costs as energy 
prices increase, to improve 
our competitive position with 
our customers.”
Miguel Pinedo, Director Strategy & Marketing Aerospace 
and TransportationTotal emissions Scope 1, 2, and 3Total emissions Scope 1, 2 and 3
9%5%
77%4%5%
Scope 1
Scope 2
Scope 3 metal
Scope 3 up- and downstream transportation
Scope 3 other7.9   
Million metric  
tons CO2 eq
(5.05 t CO2 eq/t  
shipped)
2. The GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, an internationally accepted method for companies to manage GHG in their value chain, defines 15 different Scope 3 
categories, from purchased goods to business travel to investments. We included all categories except “Processing of sold products” and “Use of sold products.”
3. Global average ~16 t CO2eq/t including direct and indirect emissions from cradle to ingot. Source: IAI 2021; 1.5 degrees scenario a model to drive emissions reduction.Total emissions Scope 1, 2 and 3
9%5%
77%4%5%
Scope 1
Scope 2
Scope 3 metal
Scope 3 up- and downstream transportation
Scope 3 other63
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Operations
Through higher metal recovery, our Ravenswood plant 
reduced its need for primary metal
This building contains the heat exchanger that provides 
heat to the city of Issoire
“Scrap mapping” allowed Muscle Shoals’ recycling facility to 
operate without prime in May and JuneIncreasing metal recovery  
Ravenswood has reduced its need for metal on one product line by 
8% thanks to recovery improvement. This has lowered our Scope 1 
and 2 emissions, as we are generating and remelting less aluminium 
scrap. The improvements are part of a program started in 2019 
where four of our main sites  (Ravenswood, Muscle Shoals, Neuf-
Brisach, Bowling Green) are looking for ways to increase recovery 
and enhance performance. Not only are we using less metal, but we 
often see an improvement in product quality and procedures, too.  
Constellium Issoire is keeping local residents warm
Constellium is helping to heat the French city of Issoire with a 
resource-efficient project called Energ’Iss. Dalkia, an energy 
service company, installed a heat exchanger and distribution 
network to recover waste heat from our site’s aluminium 
production furnaces, which is then converted into heat and hot 
water for homes and buildings. The project should deliver at least 
10 GWh of energy annually, or enough for 500 houses. It will 
replace heat from natural gas, for an estimated GHG emissions 
savings of more than two thousand metric tons each year.
Phasing out prime metal at Muscle Shoals 
Our Muscle Shoals plant is one of the largest recyclers of used 
beverage cans in the world. In May and June 2021, its recycling 
facility managed to avoid consuming any primary aluminium for the 
first time in its history. Compared to 2017, this represented a savings 
of approximately 46 thousand metric tons of CO2 eq in our Scope 3 
emissions. The achievement came after months of improvements, 
including “scrap mapping”—or finding the ideal blend of scrap for the 
proper chemical composition in the furnace.  64
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Operations
Our results
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2020 2021
10% energy efficiency 
improvement vs 2015% change in energy 
efficiency vs 2015+3.3%
vs 2015, or the equivalent of 171 
GWh in energy savings+2.4%
vs 2015, or the equivalent of 131 
GWh in energy savings
2025 TARGET INDICATOR 2020 2021
GHG emissions: 25% 
reduction in Scope 1 and 
2 intensity vs 2015% change in Scope 1 and 
2 emissions intensity vs 
2015-9% -14%Greenhouse gas intensity (t CO2 eq/t of sales)  
0.808
0.7700.7440.732
0.698
Scope 1 Scope 2
Scope 1+2 2025 T arget2015 2018 2019 2020 2021—0.1000.2000.3000.4000.5000.6000.7000.8000.900
0.808
0.7700.7440.732
0.698
Scope 1 Scope 2
Scope 1+2 2025 T arget2015 2018 2019 2020 2021—0.1000.2000.3000.4000.5000.6000.7000.8000.900Our results
Energy efficiency—The Covid-19 pandemic continued to 
negatively impact our energy efficiency in 2021. Whereas it 
affected supply and demand in the aerospace market for half of 
2020, its impact was felt throughout 2021, which disrupted our 
industrial workload optimization. A similar problem arose in the 
automotive market, which suffered from disruptions in China, 
making it difficult for us to optimize energy use in our factories. 
Although the year’s results were disappointing, we are confident 
that with a full recovery and more stable markets, we will be able 
to make rapid improvements.
GHG emissions—Our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity 
decreased 5%. We are on track to meet our 2025 goal. In terms 
of progress, 2021 represented our first full year without heavy 
fuel oil use in any of our furnaces. We also maintained the B 
score we earned in 2020 from the Carbon Disclosure Project. We 
were given an improved rating for certain subtopics, such as 
energy, risk disclosure, and business strategy.65
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Operations
Decreasing Air Emissions 
and Managing Water
 
At Neuf-Brisach, all of our furnaces are now gas-fired and no longer 
consume any heavy fuel oil. This change has drastically reduced the 
plant’s emissions, especially SOx, which are close to zero. 
In 2020, Issoire drove down air emissions at its casthouse with a 
new filtering and real-time monitoring system. The plant extended 
the system to most of its other furnaces in 2021, and expects to 
complete all of them by 2022.
Constellium’s water consumption comes mainly from cooling 
operations during metal casting and rolling, and very few of our 
activities are located in water stressed areas. Most of our sites 
monitor their water consumption at least once per quarter, and are 
seeking to improve their measurement systems.
Issoire has decreased its water consumption considerably since the 
1990s, and makes the subject an ongoing priority. In the past two 
years, a dedicated task force has achieved great results, pushing 
consumption to a historically low level by improving the cleaning of 
sand filters, modifying the quenching casthouse cooling circuit to a 
closed-loop system, installing water meters, and searching for leaks 
on a daily basis. 
Neuf-Brisach has also launched a multi-year program to reduce 
water consumption The site created a dedicated team; its first 
step was to hold a diagnostic study in 2021, using balance flow to 
understand what actions to undertake.
Water consumption is now integrated as a metric in our daily 
operations. Our ambition is to keep this momentum and accelerate 
the journey to a more sustainable planet.
Please see pages 81-82  for detailed data on Constellium's air 
emissions and water withdrawal and discharge.In 2020, we made significant progress in 
reducing air emissions and water use at a 
number of our sites. Our 2021 results 
showed that these improvements are real 
and sustained, even as our production 
increases.
Our challenges
Despite the fact that air and water emissions are an unavoidable part 
of our production processes, we are determined to keep them at a 
minimum, and have undertaken various initiatives at our different 
plants to achieve this.
Our policies and actions
At the Steg casthouse of our Valais site, we have embarked upon 
our long-term plan to control air emissions by improving operational 
excellence. Continuous monitoring will allow us to better understand 
the ways we can monitor and modify our processes to decrease 
levels of emissions such as nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides 
(SOx), carbon oxide (CO), dioxine, volatile organic compounds 
(VOC), and particulate materials.
“At Steg, we have an exciting 
opportunity to monitor our 
emissions throughout the 
melting process, so that we can 
adjust our combustion 
processes. First we will work to 
contain CO, VOC, NOx, and SOx, 
followed by dust, dioxine, and 
HCl emissions.” 
Vivian Gremaud, Environment Manager, ValaisRecently installed air filtering device at Issoire66
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Responsible Business
Reinforcing Our Approach to 
Responsible Procurement
and Supplier Code of Conduct are aligned with the United Nations 
Global Compact. They apply to our suppliers, consultants, 
contractors, and agents. Proper implementation of both depends 
upon the commitment of all parties, audits and assessments, and 
continuous improvement. We expect all our contracted suppliers 
to sign our Supplier Code of Conduct, and to respect and adhere 
to its terms in regard to the environment, society, business ethics, 
human rights, and labor practices.  In 2021, 88% of our key 
suppliers and those designated as carrying higher risk signed it, 
a six percentage point improvement compared with last year.
In addition, we ask our key and at-risk suppliers to undergo an 
EcoVadis assessment every three years, covering human rights, 
environment, health and safety, and ethics. For aluminium suppliers, 
we accept Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) certification. 
In 2021, suppliers covered by an EcoVadis evaluation or ASI 
certification represented 62% of our spending; our objective was 
70%. The difference and the slight decrease versus 2020 was due to 
a backlog of assessment renewals in 2021, as well as ongoing efforts 
to convince some of our suppliers to become part of our platform.
Indirect GHG emissions1—We are actively looking for ways to 
reduce our Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. Our Scope 2 
emissions relate to our electricity use, and we are currently 
evaluating different ways to increase our low-carbon energy 
sourcing.  However, the majority of our GHG emissions are at 
Scope 3 level and related to the metal we buy (in the GHG 
chapter of this report we disclose our Scope 3 emissions for the 
first time—see page 62). Responsible procurement and supply 
chain transparency play an important role in our efforts to reduce 
them. The support of our suppliers is critical; we need them to 
disclose information such as where they source their raw 
materials.
Increasing recycled inputs— We work in a concerted manner to 
increase the level of recycled aluminium and other alloying 
metals in our products, in order to lower our CO2 footprint. Using 
scrap metal is an efficient way to reduce our GHG Scope 3 
emissions, not only to reach the Group’s objectives, but also to 
meet our customers’ expectations and industry standards.  Responsible sourcing is key to making the 
aluminium industry sustainable at every 
stage. We expect our suppliers to live up to 
our standards, and are working with them to 
increase supply chain transparency.
Our challenges
Assessments show that the biggest social and environmental 
impacts of our business do not come from our own operations but our 
supply chain. Moreover, the Covid-19 pandemic has created a new 
set of complications in the procurement area. As the supply chain for 
commodities is in flux, it has become challenging to procure certain 
materials we need. Nonetheless, Constellium continues to work with 
our suppliers to promote further  sustainability in our industry. 
Our policies and actions
Our Supplier Code of Conduct and supplier assessments—
Constellium’s Responsible Supply Chain Management Policy Recycled input comes in all shapes—these are swarfs 
ready to be remelted
1. Indirect GHG emissions refers to Scope 2 & 3 emissions. Scope 2: indirect emissions from production of the energy we purchase (electricity); Scope 3: all indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that 
occur throughout Constellium’s value chain, including both upstream and downstream emissions.67
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Responsible Business
Conflict minerals compliance—Constellium fully complies with 
conflict minerals regulations. We have implemented due diligence 
measures and communicate the corresponding information on 
our website.2
Supporting the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative and other 
associations—We believe this independent third-party 
certification system is key to responsible supply chain 
management. Constellium has actively participated in the ASI 
since its founding. We are increasing the number of Constellium 
sites that are ASI certified, and expect all of our metal suppliers 
to be certified in the near future.
 
We also participate in various other associations around the world. 
Our metal procurement team is represented in European and 
U.S. aluminium associations, and in the London Metal Exchange 
Aluminium Committee.
Our results
2021 TARGET INDICATOR 2020 2021
Evaluate sustainability 
performance of key & at-risk 
suppliers that represent 
70% of Group’s annual 
spending% of Group spending on 
evaluated suppliers64%
of Group spending in 201962%
of Group spending in 2020
Ensure all contracted 
suppliers sign our Supplier 
Code of Conduct% of key and at-risk 
suppliers who signed our 
Supplier Code of Conduct82% 88%
Purchased billets ready for extrusion
2. https://www.constellium.com/reports-hub68
 ◄  ◄
Sustainability Responsible Business
Proudly Backing the Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative
Standards Committee. The revisions will strengthen the standards, 
especially concerning biodiversity, human rights, and climate change 
(the new GHG criteria account for a 1.5o C climate change scenario). 
They also clarify the role of aluminium traders along the chain of 
custody.
Our results
With the Surveillance Audit at Singen, we now have four fully certified 
Constellium sites: Singen (Rolling and Extrusion), Gottmadingen, 
Dahenfeld, and Neuf-Brisach. In the packaging segment, we are 
supplying ASI metal to key customers, thanks to the recycling of 
post- and pre-consumer scrap at Neuf-Brisach and the certification 
of some of our metal suppliers. 
Constellium has made ASI certification an integral and growing part 
of our business.We are planning to have more sites ASI certified, 
and to increase  the quantity of ASI certified metal we supply to our 
customers.
Our resultsConstellium is a founding member of the 
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), a 
global nonprofit, multi-stakeholder, 
standards setting and certification 
organization for the aluminium value chain. 
Our challenges
Companies working in the aluminium value chain are confronted with 
various environmental and social challenges, which ASI certification 
helps to address.
Our policies and actions
By having our sites ASI certified, Constellium can provide our 
customers with aluminium that is independently verified as 
responsibly produced. We also encourage our metal suppliers to 
become ASI members and gain certification. 
Our Singen Rolled Products facility’s 2021 Surveillance Audit, 
subsequent to its 2019 Initial Certification Audit, is a good example 
of the actions we take to meet the Chain of Custody Standard. The 
auditors confirmed that the information we provided was accurate 
and based on objective evidence, and that the site conformed to the 
ASI standard for all the criteria (management, material accounting, 
training, reporting, etc.). 
In addition to seeking certification for our sites and our suppliers, we 
are involved in the ASI standards revision process, with a presence 
on the Standards Committee and participation in several working 
groups. In 2021, public consultation led to further revisions by the 
2019 TARGET1INDICATOR Certifications as of December 31, 2021
Have at least one site ASI 
certifiedNumber of ASI  
certified sitesNeuf-Brisach, Singen Rolling and casthouse,  
Singen Extrusion, Gottmadingen, and Dahenfeld  
are certified against Performance and 
Chain of Custody Standards
1
        “Constellium’s commitment to 
positive change is clear through 
its long-standing ASI 
Membership. Proactive 
contributions include ASI 
certifications of four entities for 
both Performance and Chain of 
Custody, active participation in 
the ASI Standards Committee, 
and promoting ASI through its 
supply chains.” 
Chris Bayliss, ASI Director of Standards 
1. As an ASI member, we committed to certify at least one of our sites by the end of 2019.For a first class ticket  
to a better tomorrow,
our high-tech alloys  
lead the way today.
Our strong, lightweight, corrosion-resistant solutions are breaking new 
ground, bringing security and sustainability to vehicles navigating the 
roads, rails, seas, and skies. Constellium’s high-performance aluminium 
alloys are the ticket to safer, more fuel-efficient cars and trucks, as well 
as electric vehicles with added range. They help aircraft to fly lighter and 
longer, trains and trams to roll greener, and ships to sail faster without 
danger of rust.Performance  
Report71
 ◄  ◄
Performance
Shipments By Product Line
(in k metric tons)Year ended 
December 31, 2021Year ended 
December 31, 2020
Packaging rolled products 833 785
Automotive rolled products 228 207
Specialty and other thin-rolled products 43 27
Aerospace rolled products 53 78
Transportation, industry, defense and other rolled products 153 105
Automotive extruded products 115 108
Other extruded products 146 121
Total shipments 1,571 1,431
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
(in millions of Euros)Year ended 
December 31, 2021Year ended 
December 31, 2020Year ended 
December 31, 2019
Revenue 6,152 4,883 5,907
Cost of sales (5,488) (4,393) (5,305)
Gross profit 664 490 602
Selling and administrative expenses (258) (237) (276)
Research and development expenses (39) (39) (48)
Other gains and losses - net 117 (89) (23)
Income from operations 484 125 255
Finance costs - net (167) (159) (175)
Share of income of joint-ventures — — 2
Income / (loss) before tax 317 (34) 82
Income tax (expense) / benefit (55) 17 (18)
Net income / (loss) 262 (17) 64
Net income / (loss) attributable to:
Equity holders of Constellium 257 (21) 59
Non-controlling interests 5 4 5
Net income / (loss) 262 (17) 64
Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of Constellium
Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of Constellium (in Euros) Year ended 
December 31, 2021Year ended 
December 31, 2020Year ended 
December 31, 2019
Basic 1.82 (0.15) 0.43
Diluted 1.75 (0.15) 0.41
Note: More detailed information on our financial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at:  
https://www.constellium.com/investors/sec-filings72
 ◄  ◄
Performance
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
(in millions of Euros)At December 31, 
2021At December 31, 
2020
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 147 439
Trade receivables and other 683 406
Inventories 1,050 582
Other financial assets 58 39
1,938 1,466
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 1,948 1,906
Goodwill 451 417
Intangible assets 58 61
Deferred tax assets 162 193
Trade receivables and other 55 68
Other financial assets 12 18
2,686 2,663
Total Assets 4,624 4,129
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade payables and other 1,377 905
Borrowings 258 92
Other financial liabilities 25 46
Income tax payable 34 20
Provisions 20 23
1,714 1,086
Non-current liabilities
Trade payables and other 32 32
Borrowings 1,871 2,299
Other financial liabilities 6 41
Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 599 664
Provisions 97 98
Deferred tax liabilities 14 10
2,619 3,144
Total Liabilities 4,333 4,230
Equity
Share capital 3 3
Share premium 420 420
Retained deficit and other reserves (149) (538)
Equity attributable to equity holders of Constellium 274 (115)
Non-controlling interests 17 14
Total Equity 291 (101)
Total Equity and Liabilities 4,624 4,12973
 ◄  ◄
Performance
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
(in millions of Euros)Year ended 
December 31, 2021Year ended 
December 31, 2020Year ended 
December 31, 2019
Net income / (loss) 262 (17) 64
Adjustments
Depreciation and amortization 267 259 256
Impairment of assets — 43 —
Pension and other post-employment benefits service costs 64 34 27
Finance costs - net 167 159 175
Income tax expense / (benefit) 55 (17) 18
Share of income of joint-ventures — — (2)
 Unrealized gains on derivatives - net and from remeasurement of monetary assets and 
liabilities - net(36) (18) (33)
Losses on disposal 3 4 3
Other - net 11 19 16
Change in working capital
Inventories (435) 63 57
Trade receivables (227) 36 104
Trade payables 396 (38) (31)
Other 5 (10) 9
Change in provisions (7) 1 (2)
Pension and other post-employment benefits paid (43) (53) (50)
Interest paid (128) (140) (158)
Income tax refunded / (paid) 3 9 (6)
Net cash flows from operating activities 357 334 447
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (232) (182) (271)
Property, plant and equipment grants received 10 5 —
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired — — (83)
Proceeds from disposals, net of cash 1 1 2
Other investing activities — — (1)
Net cash flows used in investing activities (221) (176) (353)
Proceeds from issuance of Senior Notes 712 290 —
Repayments of Senior Notes (1,041) (200) (100)
(Repayments of) / proceeds from U.S. revolving credit facilities — (129) 105
Proceeds from other borrowings — 202 8
Repayments of other borrowings (16) (10) (4)
Lease repayments (32) (35) (86)
Payment of financing costs and redemption fees (30) (9) —
Transactions with non-controlling interests (2) — (4)
Other financing activities (26) (8) 5
Net cash flows (used in) / from financing activities (435) 101 (76)
Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (299) 259 18
Cash and cash equivalents - beginning of period 439 184 164
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 7 (4) 2
Cash and cash equivalents - end of year 147 439 18474
 ◄  ◄
Performance
SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE 
(AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2021)AVERAGE NUMBER OF DAILY SHARES 
TRADED IN 2021
~1   million  
sharesSHARE PRICE EVOLUTION IN 2021 IN US$
10152025
Dec Nov Oct Sept Aug July June May Apr Mar Feb Jan13.88
13.3214.0414.88
15.4218.2519.49
18.4421.04
19.79
18.74
16.97
 T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc.  Bpifrance 
 Blackrock, Inc.  Janus Henderson Group plc  Free float11.6%
8.0%
7.0%13.3%
60.1%75
 ◄  ◄
Performance
Cross-Reference Table
This report includes our consolidated statement of non-financial performance prepared in accordance with article L.225-102-1, II of the 
French Commercial Code, to disclose how the Group takes into account social and environmental consequences of its activities. The table 
below points out sections of this report containing information provided as part of the consolidated statement of non-financial performance. 
Our sustainability risk analysis concluded that certain risks are not material to our business and, therefore, such risks are not addressed 
in our consolidated statement of non-financial performance. In particular, taking the nature of our business into account, we consider 
that combating food waste, combating food insecurity, respect for animal welfare and responsible, fair and sustainable food policy do not 
constitute high risks for Constellium and do not justify a specific development in our consolidated statement of non-financial performance.
Topic of the consolidated statement of non-financial 
performanceSection of this Report Pages
The Group’s business model CEO Interview, A global sector leader, Putting sustainability at the heart of our 
strategy, Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium6, 11, 12, 
8-9 
How the Group takes into account social and 
environmental consequences of its activitiesPutting sustainability at the heart of our strategy, Creating value throughout 
the life cycle of aluminium, Governance,  
Sustainability Report, Sustainability Performance 12, 8-9, 14, 
37-68, 76-83
Climate change consequences of the company’s business 
and use of the goods and services it producesUsing life cycle assessment to understand environmental impacts, 
Developing products with environmental benefits, Boosting Aluminium 
recycling42, 46, 49
Societal commitments in favor of sustainable development 
and circular economyUsing life cycle assessment to understand environmental impacts, 
Developing products with environmental benefits, Boosting Aluminium 
recycling42, 46, 49
Collective agreements within the Group and their impacts 
on the Group’s economic performance as well as on 
employees’ working conditionsHiring, training, and engaging top talent
53
Actions to combat discrimination and promote diversity Promoting gender diversity 55
Measures taken to support people with disabilities Hiring, training, and engaging top talent 53
Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an 
independent third party, on the consolidated statement of 
non-financial performance92-93
Summarizing our business model
We are a leader in the recycling, development, and production of aluminium semi-fabricated products and solutions. With the primary 
aluminium and alloying elements we purchase, the end-of-life scrap and pre-consumer scrap we recycle, and the energy we consume, 
we produce coils, sheets, and assembled parts that are used to manufacture packaging, cars, parts for the global transportation industry, 
planes, and more. We rely on 12,000 employees, 27 manufacturing sites, and three R&D centers to produce value-added aluminium 
products that we sell to customers such as beverage can makers or automotive and aircraft OEMs. We generated €  6,2 billion of sales 
and €  581 million of adjusted EBITDA in 2021. 
Our footprint is 1.1 million metric tons of Scope 1 and 2 CO2eq, while our Scope 3 emissions (mostly from the metal we buy) are much 
larger, at 6.8 million metric tons. In our efforts at climate change mitigation, we are on track to achieve the goal we set for Scope 1 and 2 
CO2 emissions intensity: a 25% reduction in 2025 versus 2015. We have significantly reduced our landfilled production waste, which today 
represents 15.7 thousand metric tons. We are working to minimize our water consumption, which is currently 27.6 million cubic meters. 
Since a large part of our social and environmental impact comes from our supply chain, we implement measures, including Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative certification, to improve our suppliers’ performance. By leveraging the intrinsic properties of aluminium, we help our 
customers to improve the footprint of their products, through lightweighting, durability, and recycling.76
 ◄  ◄
Performance
Sustainability Performance
ALUMINIUM BEVERAGE CAN RECYCLING RATES1
43%45%46%48% 48%52%58%61.8%63.1%64%66.7%68.3%69.5%71.3%72.9%73.6%72.8%74.5%76.1% 75.8%
54.5%
49.2%48.4%
44.3%45.1% 45% 45.3%48.5% 48.2%50.9%
49.7%54.1% 54.2%54.9%56.7%
54.5%
49.4%
44%49.8%
46.1%
Europe U.S.2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 202030%40%50%60%70%80%
45.2%
1. Accounts for change in the calculation method of the beverage can recycling rate to reflect new EU definitions 
SAFETY - RECORDABLE CASE RATE2
6.7
4.9
3.8 3.53.22.6 2.7 2.8 2.93.3 3.2
2.3 2.41.8 1.98.4
7.2
6.2 6.36.97.8 7.89.2
7.3 7.18.2 8.28.518.5
17.518.5
15.0
14.0 14.013.516.0
10.0
9.0
6.310.0
8.57.514.0
Constellium European Aluminium U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics – Aluminium2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.05.010.015.020.025.0
2. Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours worked. Project contractors and visitors have 
been systematically included in these statistics since 2008. Before that, only extended contractors such as canteen and security staff were included. See pages 24 and 44 for more information about serious 
injuries77
 ◄  ◄
Performance
GRI 102-8 INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS
Does not include employees and workers of joint ventures
Apprentice Permanent Fixed-termTemporary 
(agency, 
excluding 
contractors)Total
All Constellium
Number of employees with 
specific employment typeMale 234
Female 43
Number of employees 
per employment contractMale 9,487 399
554
Female 1,393 83
Number of employees working full/part 
timeFull time 277 10,608 475
554
Part time 0 272 7
TOTAL 12,290
TOTAL PERMANENT & FIXED TERM 11,362
EUROPE
Number of employees with 
specific employment typeMale 233
Female 43
Number of employees 
per employment contractMale 6,996 356 519
Female 982 70
Number of employees working full/part 
timeFull time 276 7,706 420 519
Part time 0 272 6
TOTAL 9,225
TOTAL PERMANENT & FIXED TERM 8,404
ASIA
Number of employees with 
specific employment typeMale 0
Female 0
Number of employees 
per employment contractMale 5 37 0
Female 9 12
Number of employees working full/part 
timeFull time 0 14 48 0
Part time 0 0 1
TOTAL 63
TOTAL PERMANENT & FIXED TERM 63
NORTH AMERICA
Number of employees with 
specific employment typeMale 1
Female 0
Number of employees 
per employment contractMale 2,486 6
35
Female 402 1
Number of employees working full/part 
timeFull time 1 2,888 7
35
Part time 0 0 0
TOTAL 3,002
TOTAL PERMANENT & FIXED TERM 2,89578
 ◄  ◄
Performance
GRI 401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER3
Permanent employees excluding those of joint ventures and Asia4
Employee categoryNumber of new employees 
hired in 2021Number of employees who 
left the company in 2021Number of employees on 
December 31, 2021Turnover
Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male
EUROPE
Under 30 years old 24 83 8 63 123 734 7% 9%
30-50 years old 50 156 39 166 607 3,775 6% 4%
Over 50 years old 3 15 19 273 269 2,495 7% 11%
TOTAL 77 254 66 502 999 7,004 7% 7%
NORTH AMERICA
Under 30 years old 46 155 57 110 73 325 78% 34%
30-50 years old 70 214 111 271 197 1,263 56% 21%
Over 50 years old 22 71 43 174 141 960 30% 18%
TOTAL 138 440 211 555 411 2,548 51% 22%
ASIA
Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0 0 0 —% —%
30-50 years old 0 0 0 0 7 4 —% —%
Over 50 years old 0 0 1 1 2 1 50% 100%
TOTAL 0 0 1 1 9 5 11% 20%
TOTAL CONSTELLIUM GROUP
Under 30 years old 70 238 65 173 196 1,059 33% 16%
30-50 years old 120 370 150 437 811 5,042 18% 9%
Over 50 years old 25 86 63 448 412 3,456 15% 13%
TOTAL 215 694 278 1,058 1,419 9,557 20% 11%
GRI 404-1 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE 
Employees excluding those of joint ventures and Ravenswood
Female Male Managers Operators All employees
All Constellium
Average training hours per year/employee 18.6 19.8 20.4 19.5 19.6
“Operators” refers to employees working on the shop floors; “managers” refers to employees with administrative or managerial roles.      
GRI 405-1 DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES
Permanent employees excluding those of joint ventures5
Female Male Total Age
Board Members
Under 30 years old 0 0 0 —%
30-50 years old 2 0 2 14%
Over 50 years old 4 8 12 86%
TOTAL 6 8 14 100%
GENDER % 43% 57% 100%
3 Turnover rate is calculated as number of employees who left the company in 2021, divided by the number of employees on December 31, 2021 in the same category of region, age and gender
4 Employees of joint ventures and Asia are not material to Constellium’s total number of employees. 
5 Employees of joint ventures are not material to Constellium’s total number of employees.79
 ◄  ◄
Performance
Job Levels Age Ranges Female Male Total Age % % Female % Male
All Constellium
Executive Committee MembersUnder 30 years old 0 0 0 0%
30-50 years old 0 2 2 18%
Over 50 years old 1 8 9 82%
Subtotal 1 10 11 100% 9% 91%
Vice Presidents/Senior Directors (JG 38-46)Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0%
30-50 years old 8 34 42 40%
Over 50 years old 9 54 63 60%
Subtotal 17 88 105 100% 16% 84%
Senior Managers/Sr. Experts/Technical 
Masters (JG 35-37)Under 30 years old 1 0 1 0%
30-50 years old 19 89 108 50%
Over 50 years old 9 96 105 49%
Subtotal 29 185 214 100% 14% 86%
Managers/Experts/Sr. Engineers (JG 32-34)Under 30 years old 2 2 4 1%
30-50 years old 66 225 291 58%
Over 50 years old 35 169 204 41%
Subtotal 103 396 499 100% 21% 79%
Professional & Engineers (JG 28-31)Under 30 years old 37 77 114 14%
30-50 years old 99 362 461 58%
Over 50 years old 53 164 217 27%
Subtotal 189 603 792 100% 24% 76%
Technicians & Operators (JG NP)Under 30 years old 156 980 1,136 12%
30-50 years old 619 4,330 4,949 53%
Over 50 years old 305 2,965 3,270 35%
Subtotal 1,080 8,275 9,355 100% 12% 88%
TOTAL 1,419 9,557 10,976 100% 13% 87%
GRI 405-2 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN6,7
Permanent employees excluding joint ventures
Job LevelsRatio Women to 
Men
2021
All Constellium
Vice Presidents & Directors 101%
Senior Managers/Senior Experts/Technical Masters 94%
Managers/Experts/Senior Engineers 93%
Professional & Engineers 84%
Technicians & Operators 98%
6 Within the same category of employees, the ratios include a wide range of roles, geographic regions, and levels of experience.
7 Vice Presidents & Directors includes executive committee members; “Managers” refers to employees with administrative or managerial roles; “Operators” refers to employees working on the shop floors.80
 ◄  ◄
Performance
GRI 302-1 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION  
IN TERAJOULE (TJ)
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Direct energy (TJ)
Anthracite 500 522 389 408 346 326 408
LPG 15 15 15 14 15 13 17
Nat. Gas 13,274 13,198 13,512 13,495 13,471 12,517 13,290
Diesel 120 118 116 115 107 85 195
Heavy fuel 163 154 152 155 119 68 0
Renewable 
sources0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 14,071 14,008 14,185 14,187 14,058 13,009 13,910
Indirect energy (TJ)
ElectricityPurchased 5,583 5,777 5,938 5,870 6,016 5,324 5,749
Sold 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
SteamPurchased 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Sold 112 194 104 120 110 107 121
Total Direct + Indirect energy consumption  
(TJ)19,542 19,591 20,019 19,937 19,964 18,226 19,538
From energy consumption to energy efficiency
Raw energy consumption per metric ton is not necessarily the most relevant indicator of energy efficiency, because we need to take
into account the effect of different product mixes. For instance, the manufacture of automotive sheet requires significantly more
energy during rolling and finishing operations than beverage can body sheet. Therefore, increasing the share of one product over
another will affect the overall energy per metric ton, independently of any other change. For this reason, we have identified the relative 
energy consumption per metric ton of different product lines and use this to transpose raw data on energy per metric ton into an energy 
efficiency index. This index reflects the intrinsic manufacturing performance of our operations, regardless of any changes in our product 
mix. See pages 61-64 for more information on our efforts to increase energy efficiency.
GRI 301-2 RECYCLED INPUT AS MATERIALS USED
Constellium uses a significant share of recycled aluminium to manufacture our products. On average, recycled metal input,  calculated by 
following GRI 301-2 guidance, accounted for 41% of our metal input in 2021. Post-consumer scrap (generated at the end-of-life phase of 
finished goods) accounted for 18% of metal input, while the rest of the recycled metal input was pre-consumer production scrap (generated 
downstream from Constellium’s operations). This recycled material input does not account for internally generated scrap, in line with the 
ISO 14021 standard.
That being said, Constellium does not consider that recycled content should be singled out as the only relevant indicator for the environmental 
performance of aluminium products. We also focus on a product’s end-of-life recycling, to ensure that valuable resources are reliably 
and efficiently collected and recycled. For more on recycling and Constellium's advocacy on this topic, please consult our website at:  
https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/aluminium-recycling81
 ◄  ◄
Performance
GRI 303-3 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL IN MILLION CUBIC METERS
 
0.355.524.530.4
0.455.123.028.5
0.394.521.025.9
0.444.422.827.6
2018 2019 2020 2021Water from
Public networkSurface water Ground Water Total Water—5.0010.0015.0020.0025.0030.00                
GRI 306-1 WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION  
IN METRIC TONS8,9
The measurements are based on local legal requirements. Some sites don't cover all measurements.
4 61350111233
3 61410394356
3 71793124315
2 52194142269
2018 2019 2020 2021Dissolved
AluminiumTotal
HydrocarbonTotal
FluoridesBOD5Total
Suspended
SolidsCOD050100150200250300350400
8 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD)
9 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)82
 ◄  ◄
Performance
GRI 305-7  NITROGEN OXIDES (NO X), SULFUR OXIDES (SOx),  
AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS IN METRIC TONS10
Air emissions are calculated based on one or two spot measurements per year. This can cause significant fluctuations from one year to 
another. The measurements are based on local legal requirements. Some sites do not cover all measurements.
666
597
190751786
628
191841
2020 202102505007501,000
NOXPARTICULATE 
MATERIALS SO2VOC11
GRI 306-2 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD IN METRIC TONS
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Waste (t)
Recycling 128,820 140,635 150,146 146,636 150,079 130,606 147,128
% recycling 79% 76% 79% 80% 80% 83% 84%
Incineration 6,303 8,817 7,406 6,279 6,071 4,857 5,482
% incineration 4% 5% 4% 3% 3% 3% 3%
Landfill production 24,864 30,131 28,572 27,517 25,733 16,976 15,702
Landfill non-production 3,206 4,266 3,404 3,623 4,736 5,844 6,841
% total landfill 17% 19% 17% 17% 16% 14% 13%
Total waste 163,194 183,849 189,527 184,053 186,619 158,283 175,153
Total hazardous waste 65,674 72,403 74,610 75,924 73,625 63,735 69,252
Total non-hazardous waste 97,520 111,446 114,917 108,129 112,994 94,548 105,901
Non-production waste refers to waste generated from activities such as construction or demolition.
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste categories are defined in accordance with the definition outlined in the EU Waste Framework Directive 
and harmonized with the U.S. waste classification.
10. 2020 data has been updated since last year’s report: particulate material for Nanjing has been updated (14.1 kg), air emissions from Muscle Shoals have been updated and NOx in Ussle was missed 
last year but is added now.
11. Volatile Organic Compounds Emissions (VOC)83
 ◄  ◄
Performance
CONSTELLIUM PRODUCTION WASTE SENT  
TO LANDFILL IN METRIC TONS
24,86430, 131
28,5722 7, 517
25,733
16,976
15,702
T arget 20212015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 202105,00010,00015,00020,00025,00030,00035,00084
 ◄  ◄
Performance
GRI Content Index
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards:  
Core option
Standard Description Section of this report/Additional information Pages
GRI 102 General disclosure
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Constellium SE (Constellium)
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium
A global sector leader
Our main brands are: Airware®, Sealium, Alumold®, Unidal, Herkal, HK34, Xtral 728, Diamal, 
Alplan®, Certal, Fortal®, Alcast, Fibral, Surfalex®, Formalex®, Strongalex®, Ultralex®, 
Skybright, Inoxal, Longlinefinish®, Securalex®, Constellium HSA6®, Constellium HCA6®, 
Modalex®, Butlerfinish®, Staybright, Keikor®, Aeral®, Dokima, Kool X, AHEADD®, and 
Gripster.8-9 
11
102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters Paris, France
102-4 Location of operations Our Business Units 10
102-5 Ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the highest ethical standards and 
best practices, to be responsive to our shareholders and other stakeholders, and operates 
under the Worldwide Code of Employe and Business Conduct. We are listed on NYSE 
under the ticker symbol ‘CSTM’. Shareholders as of December 31, 2021 – free float: 60.1%; 
T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. 13.3%; Bpifrance Participtions SA: 11.6%; Blackrock 8.0% 
and Janus Henderson Group plc 7.0%. 
102-6 Markets served A global sector leader 11
102-7 Scale of the organization Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium  
A global sector leader8-9 
11
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainability performance 77-79
102-9 Supply chain Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 8-9
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chainNone.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Sustainability Targets for 2021 
Our Worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets out the standard of behavior 
we expect from our employees: https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/
policies-codes-conduct44
102-12 External initiatives We are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2013.  
We are member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative since its foundation.  
Memberships90 
68 
91 
102-13 Membership in associations Memberships 91
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Interview 6
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance
Our Sustainability Targets for 2021
Assessing material sustainability risks
Reducing our energy consumption and GHG emissions14
44 
40
 61
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behaviorCEO Interview 
Our values
Governance - Policies
Proudly backing the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative  
Reinforcing our approach to responsible procurement  
United Nation Global Compact membership  
Our Worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets out the standard of behavior 
we expect from our employees.6 
13 
14 
68 
66 
7
9085
 ◄  ◄
Performance
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 
ethicsGovernance;  
Constellium's Integrity hotline is an independent service that provides a means for 
employees to anonymously and confidentially report violations of the Code of Conduct as 
well as other unethical, illegal or irresponsible dealings via phone or web-form 24/7. The 
hotline is available in all local languages. All concerns are documented by the external 
hotline operator and shared with the assigned case manager in the respective country for 
investigation and resolution. In 2021, we recorded 20 claims via the Hotline. 19 of the cases 
have been investigated and closed. The remaining case remains open and actively under 
investigation.  
The first quarter of 2021 we also closed 10 outstanding hotline cases from 2020.  
Employees also have the ability to raise concerns through other means as well, including 
our Ombudsman email, through our “Contact” option on our website and our corporate 
social media accounts. In 2021, our Compliance Committee reviewed 5 additional cases 
that were submitted outside of the Hotline. Of these cases, all were investigated and closed.14
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Governance 14
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Governance
Assessing material sustainability risks
Memberships14 
40
91
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements In 2021, 84% of our total employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements 
(CBA); 94% of the employees at our non-U.S. locations are covered by CBA, while 
approximately 52% of U.S. employees are covered by CBA.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Governance
Assessing material sustainability risks
Proudly backing the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative14 
40
68
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Keeping abreast of market regulatory changes  
Assessing material sustainability risks  
Working to ensure customer satisfaction 
Proudly backing the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative43 
40 
51
68
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Governance  
Our Sustainability Targets for 2021 
Assessing material sustainability risks14 
44
40
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statementsAll entities controlled by Constellium SE and all operating joint ventures controlled by 
Constellium during reporting year 2021, otherwise stated.
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Assessing material sustainability risks  
In 2017, we renewed and broadened our previous materiality assessment performed in 
2014 to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our 
sustainability targets are aligned with this vision.  
See pages 38-39  of our 2017 Business and sustainability performance report for more, 
available at https://www.constellium.com/reports-hub 40
102-47 List of material topics Assessing material sustainability risks  
See page s 38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance Report for more, 
available at https://www.constellium.com/reports-hub 40
102-48 Restatements of information Air: 
Atmospheric emissions of 2020 were adjusted due to late reporting in 2020 of NOx and 
Particulates matters for 2 sites. Also, the air emissions on NOx, Particulate matters, and 
VOC were re-assessed for one site, mainly due to conversion from short to metric tons. 
Several emissions factors were updated and additional sources were reported. We expect 
our measurements to improve over the next years, hence further updates may occur.  
Waste:  
Data on waste sent to landfill has been adjusted compared to 2020 review due to late 
reporting from 3 sites.
102-49 Changes in reporting None.
102-50 Reporting period About this report 95
102-51 Date of most recent report Issued in 2021. Available at https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/constellium_
business_sustainability_report_2020_en.pdf
102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 95
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 
reportAbout this report 95
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option
102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 84-8986
 ◄  ◄
Performance
102-56 External assurance Constellium’s non-financial performance statement (“déclaration de performance extra-
financière”), included in this report (as specified on page (92), was verified by an 
independent third party, Pricewaterhouse- Coopers Audit. The work of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit was performed in accordance with the provisions of articles 
A. 225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, determining the conditions under which an 
independent third party performs its engagement, and with the professional guidance of the 
French Institute of Statutory Auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements, as well as 
with ISAE 3000 assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial 
information.
GRI 103 Management approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
boundaryAssessing material sustainability risks  
In 2017, we renewed and broadened our previous materiality assessment performed in 
2014 to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our 
sustainability targets are aligned with this vision.  
See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and sustainability performance report for more, 
available at https://www.constellium.com/reports-hub40
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsGovernance  
Our Sustainability Targets for 202114 
44
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance  
Prioritizing Environment, Health, and Safety  
Assessing material sustainability risks14 
22 
40
GRI 205 Anti-corruption
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruptionAssessing material sustainability risks  
We updated our corruption risk map after our Internal Audit and Control team led in-depth 
discussions with various functions and sites.40
205-2 Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and proceduresGovernance  
We communicate and train our Executive Committee and employees on anti-corruption 
through our Code of Conduct (CoC) training.  
The trainings are organized by our Risk Champions on our sites. We have included 
anti-corruption principles in our Supplier Code of Conduct for our business partners, and 
clauses in contracts with our customers. We have also put a due diligence process in place 
for business partners.14
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 
takenNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 207 Tax
207-1 Approach to tax Tax strategy is aligned with our business strategy and operations. Constellium ensures that 
intercompany transactions respect the arm’s length principle, that tax returns are filed and 
taxes are paid in a timely manner in each jurisdiction where we operate in compliance with 
applicable law and regulations.  
207-2 Tax governance, control and risk management Constellium takes a responsible approach to the management and control of tax issues. The 
VP Group Tax reports regularly to the Group CFO on the Group’s tax position and strategy 
including the potential exposures the Group could face. The VP Group Tax also reports 
periodically to the Audit Committee of the Board. The management of tax risks is fully 
integrated in the Group’s risk management process.  
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management 
concerns related to taxWe are committed to provide transparent and accessible information to tax auditors and we 
have a continuous open and honest dialogue with tax policy makers and representatives of 
tax authorities. 
207-4 Country-by-country reporting Since 2017, Constellium has filed a country by country report with the relevant tax 
authorities which is available to any tax administrations in countries where Constellium has 
operations.  
GRI 301 Materials
301-2 Recycled input materials used Average recycled aluminium input of 41% in 2021, 18% was post-consumer scrap, and the 
remaining 23% was pre-consumer scrap, following GRI Standard guidance "gri-standards-
consolidated-2020.pdf", downloaded from https://www.globalreporting.org/how-to-use-the-
gri-standards/resource-center/
GRI 302 Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability performance 80
302-3 Energy intensity Reducing our energy consumption and GHG emissions  
Sustainability performance61 
80
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption a. Total energy savings in 2021: 473 TJ 
b. Savings by energy source in 2021: fossil fuels 210 TJ; Electricity 263 TJ 
c. Baseline year is 2015  
d. Use of internal calculation tool to assess what energy would have been used in the 
corresponding year by applying 2015 energy / t ratio of each production unit and applying 
where necessary a correction factor to account for changes in product mix. 87
 ◄  ◄
Performance
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 
and servicesFor automotive and aerospace applications, we account for the reduction in a product's life 
cycle energy requirements due to the energy savings from using our aluminium products, 
compared to reference materials such as automotive steel or previous generations of 
aerospace aluminium alloys. An estimate based on life cycle assessment calculations leads 
to savings of over 20,000 TJ for products delivered in 2021, throughout their lifetime. We 
plan to further expand this assessment in the future with a more complete coverage of our 
product range. We based our assumption on an estimate of mass saved in automotive and 
aerospace applications and used data from our LCA tool, following the ISO 14040-44 
standards. 
GRI 303 Water and Effluents
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource a. Use of water is mainly concentrated on cooling operations during metal casting (primarily) 
and rolling activity. Use of water is needed across the value chain (upstream for alumina 
refining, aluminium casting after smelting, electricity production, etc., and downstream for 
finishing operations).  
b. Use of water is being handled within the scope of our ISO 14001 certification. W e also 
check the status of water risks using the online Aqueduct tool that we last ran in 2021. We 
plan to update this on a regular basis.  
c. We request our key suppliers to be assessed regarding their sustainability performance, 
including water-related issues. Water-related aspects are also included in the scope of 
audits performed at suppliers' premises that are expected to be at higher risk. We assessed 
the sustainability performance of key and at-risk suppliers corresponding to 62% of our 
spending in 2021. Along with other partners of the aluminium value chain, we engaged in 
the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), which built a standard for responsible aluminium. 
Water management issues are included in the ASI standard that was defined at the end of 
2017. 
d. There is currently no specific water-related goal. We rely on local environmental 
management to handle water-related topics as a function of local conditions (water 
availability and quality, local stakeholders such as environmental or water agencies, 
regulations…).
303-2 Management of water discharge-related 
impactsWater discharge management is done according to local regulations and our own water 
management policy, and included in the ISO14001 certification scope of our plants. 
303-3 Water withdrawal a. Sustainability performance  
b. In 2021, water withdrawal from areas with water stress, according to the WRI Aqueduct 
Water Risk Atlas, was 116.7 megaliters. In all cases but one, the water source was municipal 
water, while surface water was used and recycled in the last case.  
c. All displayed numbers relate to freshwater. No“other water” source was used.  
d. No assumptions used, data was collected from sites’ environmental management and 
consolidated in central database.81
303-4 Water discharge Sustainability performance 81
303-5 Water consumption We considered water consumption volumes as water volumes released to a different water 
type (e.g. groundwater released to surface water).  
a.Sustainability performance. All volumes are to be considered except those sourced from 
surface water, released in the same surface water system.  
b. In 2021, water withdrawal from areas with water stress was 116.7 megaliters. In all cases 
but one, the water source was municipal water, while surface water was used and recycled 
in the last case. 
c. No significant water storage change.  
d. Only five of our sites' water consumption is concerned: Changchun, San Luis Potosi, 
Crailsheim, Dahenfeld and Montreuil-Juigné. Their water consumption remains limited, only 
accounting for 0.4% of our total consumption.
GRI 305 Emissions
305-1 Energy direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Reducing our energy consumption and GHG emissions 61
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Reducing our energy consumption and GHG emissions 61
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Reducing our energy consumption and GHG emissions  
Following GHG protocol guidelines, only excluding “processing of sold products”, “Use of 
sold products” and “Products end-of-life”.61
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Reducing our energy consumption and GHG emissions 61
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 
(ODS)None recorded during the reporting year
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 
and other significant air emissionsSustainability performance 82
GRI 306 Effluents and waste
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-
related impactsSustainability performance 81
306-2 Management of significant waste-related 
impactsSustainability performance 81-83
306-3 Waste generated No significant spills recorded in the reporting year88
 ◄  ◄
Performance
GRI 307 Environmental Compliance
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulationsWe have 14 on-going cases of non-compliance, some require investment and time to be 
addressed. We are closely following those cases and working to resolve them.
GRI 308 Supplier environmental 
assessment
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaReinforcing our approach to responsible procurement 66
GRI 401 Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability performance 77-79
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 
are not provided to temporary or part-time 
employeesPart-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; temporary workers are not 
eligible for the same benefits. Some selected benefits related to health insurance are 
granted depending on seniority
GRI 402 Labor Management relations
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 
changesThe minimum notice period changes depending on the country of operation and is based on 
local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question.
GRI 403 Occupational health and safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management 
systemPrioritizing environment, health and safety  
a. We encourage our sites to be certified by ISO 45001.  
b. The policy and certification scope cover our employees and workers who are not 
employees but whose work and/or workplace is on Constellium premises.22
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigationPrioritizing environment, health and safety 22
403-3 Occupational health services Prioritizing environment, health and safety 22
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and 
safety100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and safety committees
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and 
safetyPrioritizing environment, health and safety 22
403-6 Promotion of worker health Prioritizing environment, health and safety 22
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked by 
business relationshipsPrioritizing environment, health and safety 22
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health 
and safety management systemPrioritizing environment, health and safety  
95% of our employees work in ISO 45001-certified sites.22
403-9 Work-related injuries Prioritizing environment, health and safety  
Sustainability performance22 
77-79
GRI 404 Training and education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per 
employeeSustainability performance 77-79
404-3  Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviewsThree quarters of our employees receive regular performance review. The professional 
grade employees receive annual review of performance and career development through 
the global HR platform, SuccessFactors. Performance review for non-professional grade 
employees is managed on a site-by-site basis.
GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Sustainability performance 77-79
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to menSustainability performance 77-79
GRI 406 Non-discrimination
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions takenIn 2021, our Integrity Hotline has recorded 1 claim alleging incidents of discrimination. The 
claim was investigated by the local case officers, and the result of the investigation was 
reviewed by our Compliance Committee. The case manager investigated this claim and was 
unable to find any evidence to support the alleged claim of discrimination and the case was 
subsequently closed.
GRI 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 
freedom of association and collective 
bargaining may be at riskReinforcing our approach to responsible procurement  
Our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes the right to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining, and our operations are located in countries where such risks are not 
significant. In 2021, 84% of our total employees are covered by collective bargaining 
agreements.  66
GRI 408 Child labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of child laborReinforcing our approach to responsible procurement  
Our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes this essential right and is implemented 
through our Code of Conduct.  6689
 ◄  ◄
Performance
GRI 409 Forced or compulsory labor 
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory laborReinforcing our approach to responsible procurement  
Our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes this essential right and is implemented 
through our Code of Conduct.66
GRI 412 Human rights assessment
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessmentsRespecting human rights  
Since the end of 2018, we have conducted site-level human rights risk assessment 
workshops at 12 of our sites: Nanjing, Singen, Neuf Brisach, Děčín, Levice, Zilina, Muscle 
Shoals, Ravenswood, White, Van Buren, Bowling Green and San Luis Potosi.  
In April 2019, we organized a global workshop with leadership from different key functions to 
discuss these risks. It produced a Constellium human rights heat map which was presented 
to the Executive Committee.59
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 
proceduresRespecting human rights  
The principles of our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices have been incorporated into 
our Code of Conduct. Employees are thus trained on human rights during Code of Conduct 
training. 59
412-3 Significant investment agreements and 
contracts that include human rights clauses or 
that underwent human rights screeningReinforcing our approach to responsible procurement  
Human Rights Principles are explicitly mentioned in our Supplier Code of Conduct, available 
at https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct 66
GRI 413 Local communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development 
programsGiving back to our communities 57
GRI 414 Supplier social assessment
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 
criteriaReinforcing our approach to responsible procurement 66
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain 
and actions takenProudly backing the Aluminium Stewardship Initiatives  
Reinforcing our approach to responsible procurement68 
66
GRI 415 Public policy
415-1 Political contributions None – it is our policy not to make any political contributions.
GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 
health and safety impacts of products and 
servicesNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 417 Marketing and labeling
417-1 Requirements for product and service 
information and labeling -Sourcing of raw material: 100% of our products comply with conflict minerals regulations 
and Constellium communicates the corresponding information on our website (https://www.
constellium.com/reports-hub).  
-Products with substances that might produce an environmental or social impact and safe 
use of the products and services: 100% of our semi- products (cast, rolled, or extruded) are 
covered by corresponding Manufacturer Safety Data Sheets, available on our website 
(https://www.constellium.com/financial-listing#tab-544). Constellium also complies with 
REACH regulations, which covers the majority of our products.  
-Disposal of products and environmental and social impacts: we communicate, advocate, 
and engage in promoting even higher recycling rates for aluminium in all products.
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
product and service information and labelingNone recorded during the reporting year
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 418 Customer privacy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 
of customer privacy and losses of customer 
dataNone recorded during the reporting year
GRI 419 Socioeconomic compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 
the social and economic areaNone recorded during the reporting year90
 ◄  ◄
Performance
United Nation Global Compact 
The report also contains information regarding our practical actions or plans to implement the United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) Ten 
Principles in each of the four areas (human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption), to which we are committed as a signatory of UNGC. 
The table below sets forth a correspondence among (i) the information to be provided in accordance with the UNGC Communication on 
Progress (COP) - GC Active, (ii) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index, and (iii) the relevant sections of this report.
UNGC Principles GRI Index Pages
CEO commitment of UNGC 6
HUMAN RIGHTS
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.
GRI 405-41413-17, 
22-23, 
55-59, 
66-68, 
78-79, 
88-90 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
LABOR
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 
collective bargaining.13, 53-56, 
66-68, 
78-79, 85, 
88-89Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. GRI 102-41,
Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. 401-409
Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
ENVIRONMENT
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.
GRI 301-30812, 14-17, 
22-23, 
37-50, 
60-68, 
80-83, 
87-88Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility .
Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Principle 
10:Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery .GRI 20514-17, 
40-41, 8691
 ◄  ◄
Performance
Memberships      
Associations Positions in governanceParticipation in 
projects and 
committee
Aluminum Association (USA) Member Chair of the association, 
Chair and member of several groups and committeesYes
Aluminium Can Recycling Romania (ALUCRO) Board member Yes
Aluminium France Board member Yes
Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member of Standard Committee Yes
Alupro Board member Yes
ARPAL, Spain Board member No
Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) No Yes
Association of the United States Army (AUSA) No No
Can Manufacturers Institute No Yes
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No
European Aluminium Chair of the association,  
Chair and member of several groups and committeesYes
European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member Yes
Every Can Counts Chair Yes
Fédération des Forges et Fonderies Yes Yes
France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) Chair Yes
France Industrie Member No
Aluminium Deutschland (GDA) Board member Yes
Recal Foundation Poland Board member Yes
Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) Board member Yes
Syndicat National des Fabricants de Bo  
emballages et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM)No Yes
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No
Wirtschafts Grosshandel Metallehalbzeug (WGM) No Yes
Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Board member Yes
Forward-looking statements
Certain statements contained in this report may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995. This report may contain “forward-looking statements” with respect to our business, results of operations and financial 
condition, and our expectations or beliefs concerning future events and conditions. You can identify forward-looking statements because 
they contain words such as, but not limited to, “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “approximately,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” 
“plans,” “targets,” likely,” “will,” “would,” “could” and similar expressions (or the negative of these terminologies or expressions). All forward-
looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.  Many risks and uncertainties are inherent in our industry and markets, while others are 
more specific to our business and operations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: market competition; economic 
downturn; disruption to business operations, including the length and magnitude of disruption resulting from the global COVID-19 pandemic; 
the inability to meet customer demand and quality requirements; the loss of key customers, suppliers or other business relationships; 
supply disruptions; excessive inflation; the capacity and effectiveness of our hedging policy activities; the loss of key employees; levels of 
indebtedness which could limit our operating flexibility and opportunities; and other risk factors set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” 
in our Annual Report on Form 20-F, and as described from time to time in subsequent reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission. The occurrence of the events described and the achievement of the expected results depend on many events, some or all 
of which are not predictable or within our control. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements 
contained in this report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise, except as required by law.92
 ◄  ◄
Performance
CONSTELLIUM SE
Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third 
party, on the consolidated non-financial information statement 
Year ended on the 31st of December 2021
Constellium SE 
Washington Plaza
75008 PARIS
In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Constellium SE (hereinafter 
the ”entity”), appointed as an independent third party and accredited 
by Cofrac (Cofrac Inspection Accreditation n°3-1060, whose scope is 
available at www.cofrac.fr), we conducted our work in order to provide 
a report expressing a limited assurance conclusion on the historical 
information (observed and extrapolated) of the consolidated non-financial 
information statement (hereinafter respectively the “Information” and 
the “Statement”), prepared in accordance with the Entity’s procedures 
(hereinafter the “Guidelines”), for year ended on the 31st of December 
2021, included in the management report pursuant to the legal and 
regulatory provisions of articles L. 225 102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-
105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce).
Conclusion
Based on the procedures performed, as described in the « Nature and 
scope of our work » section, and the elements that we have collected, 
nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the 
consolidated non-financial information statement is not compliant with 
the applicable regulatory provisions and that the Information, taken as 
a whole, are not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines.
Comments
Without qualifying our conclusion and in accordance with article 
A. 225-3 of the French Commercial Code, we have the following 
comments:
• the items on activity which are presented in the Declaration 
don’t allow to easily identify a business model in order to inform 
the reader on the main social and environmental issues/risks 
of the entity  ;
• the information presented for the risks is limited to the presentation 
of global issues which don’t allow a sufficiently precise assessment 
of the risks specific to the entity and their impacts;
• no key performance indicators are stated for the information on 
the gender diversity in light of the related policies.
Preparation of the non-financial performance statement
The absence of a generally accepted and commonly used 
framework or established practices on which to evaluate and 
measure the Information permits the use of different, but 
acceptable, measurement techniques that may affect comparability 
between entities and through time.
Consequently, the Information needs to be read and understood 
with reference to the Guidelines, significant elements of which are 
available upon request from the entity’s headquarters.Inherent Limitations in Preparing the Information
The Information may be subject to inherent uncertainty because of 
incomplete scientific and economic knowledge and due to the quality 
of the external data used. Certain Information are sensitive to the 
methodological choices, assumptions and/or estimates used to 
prepare the Information presented in the Statement.
The entity’s responsibility 
The Board of Directors is responsible for
• selecting or establishing suitable criteria for preparing the 
Information;
• the preparation of the Statement in accordance with the legal 
and regulatory provisions, including a presentation of the 
business model, a description of the principal nonfinancial risks, 
a presentation of the policies implemented considering those 
risks and the outcomes of those policies, including key 
performance indicators and if applicable the information required 
by Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (green taxonomy);
• designing, implementing and maintaining internal control over 
information relevant to the preparation of the Information that is 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
The Statement has been prepared in accordance with the entity’s 
Guidelines as mentioned above. 
Responsibility of the Statutory Auditor, appointed as an independent 
third party
On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to provide a report 
expressing a limited assurance conclusion on:
• the compliance of the Statement with the provisions of article 
R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code;
• the fairness of the information provided in accordance with 
article  R. 225105 I, 3 and II of the French Commercial Code, 
i.e., the outcomes, including key performance indicators, and 
the measures implemented considering the principal risks 
(hereinafter the “Information”).
As we are engaged to form an independent conclusion on the 
Information as prepared by management, we are not permitted to 
be involved in the preparation of the Information as doing so may 
compromise our independence. 
It is not our responsibility to comment on:
• the entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory 
provisions (in particular the information required by Article 8 of 
Regulation (EU) 2020/852 (green taxonomy), the French duty of 
care law and anti-corruption and tax evasion legislation);93
 ◄  ◄
Performance
• the fairness of the information required by Article 8 of Regulation 
(EU) 2020/852 (green taxonomy);
• the compliance of products and services with the applicable 
regulations.
Regulatory provisions and professional standards applicable
The work described below was performed in accordance with the 
provisions of articles A.  225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code 
and with the professional guidance of the French Institute of Statutory 
Auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements, as well as with 
ISAE 3000 (Revised) – Assurance Engagements other than Audits 
or Reviews of Historical Financial Information.
Independence and quality control  
Our independence is defined by the provisions of article L.  822-11-
3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics 
(Code de déontologie) of statutory auditors. In addition, we have 
implemented a system of quality control including documented 
policies and procedures to ensure the compliance with the ethical 
requirements, French professional guidance and applicable legal and 
regulatory requirements.
Means and resources
Our work was carried out by a team of 6 people between September 
2021 and March 2022 and took a total of about 7 weeks.
We were assisted in our work by our specialists in sustainable 
development and corporate social responsibility. We conducted about 
20 interviews with people responsible for preparing the Statement, 
representing among others sustainable development, human 
resources, health and safety, environment and purchase departments.
Nature and scope of our work 
We planned and performed our work considering the risk of material 
misstatement of the Information.
We consider that the procedures we performed were based on our 
professional judgment and allowed us to provide a limited level of 
assurance conclusion:
• we obtained an understanding of all the consolidated entities’ 
activities, the description of the social and environmental risks 
associated with their activities; 
• we assessed the suitability of the Guidelines with respect to 
their relevance, completeness, reliability, objectivity and 
understandability, with due consideration of industry best 
practices, where appropriate; 
• we verified that the Statement includes each category of social 
and environmental information set out in article  L. 2251021 III;
• we verified that the Statement presents information set out in 
article  L. 2251051 II where relevant to the principal risks and 
includes an explanation for the absence of the information 
required under article L.  225-102-1 III, 2; 
• we verified that the Statement presents the business model 
and the principal risks associated with all the consolidated 
entities’ activities, including where relevant and proportionate, 
the risks associated with their business relationships and 
products or services, as well as their policies, measures and 
the outcomes, including key performance indicators related to 
the principal risks;• we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews 
to:
•  assessed the process used to identify and confirm the 
principal risks and the consistency of the outcomes and the 
key performance indicators used with respect to the principal 
risks and the policies presented, and
•  corroborate the qualitative information (measures and 
outcomes) that we considered to be the most important 
presented in the appendix. For some risks, fight against 
corruption, sustainable procurement, scope 3 CO2 emissions, 
our work was performed at the consolidation entity level; for 
the other risks, , our work was performed at the consolidation 
entity level and on a selection of entities : Ravenswood (United 
States), Neuf-Brisach (France) et Valais (Switzerand);
• we verified that the Statement covers the scope of consolidation, 
i.e., all the companies included in the scope of consolidation in 
accordance with article L.  233-16, within the limitations set out 
in the Statement;
• we asked what internal control and risk management 
procedures the entity has put in place and assessed the data 
collection process implemented by the entity to ensure the 
completeness and fairness of the Information;
• for the key performance indicators and other quantitative 
outcomes that we considered to be the most important 
presented in the appendix, we implemented:
•  analytical procedures to verify the proper consolidation of 
the data collected and the consistency of any changes in 
those data;
•  substantive tests, using sampling techniques, in order to 
verify the proper application of the definitions and 
procedures and reconcile the data with the supporting 
documents. This work was carried out at the consolidating 
entity and on a selection of entities : Ravenswood (United 
States), Neuf-Brisach (France) et Valais (Switzerand) and 
covers between 30% and 80% of the consolidated data 
selected for these tests;
• we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based 
on our knowledge of all the consolidated entities.
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement are less 
extensive than those required for a reasonable assurance engagement 
performed in accordance with the professional guidance of the French 
Institute of Statutory Auditors (“CNCC”); a higher level of assurance 
would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures.
Neuilly-sur-Seine, the 14th of March 2022
One of the Statutory Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit
Pierre Marty            Pascal Baranger
Partner                 Sustainability Department Director
94
 ◄  ◄
Performance
Appendix
List of the information we considered most important
Key performance indicators and other quantitative results:
• Employee satisfaction rate;
• Percentage of sites which conducted at least one community program or event;
• Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women and men;
• Breakdown of permanent employees by region, by employee category, by gender, by employment type, and by contract;
• Permanent employee turnover by gender and by age;
• Percentage of employees (job grade equal and above 28) trained on Code of Conduct;
• Average number of training hours per employee;
• Percentage of total permanent employees covered by collective bargaining agreements;
• Percentage of workforce covered by an occupational health and safety management system - ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001;
• Recordable Case Rate and annual variation;
• Number of serious injuries;
• Financial and human resource dedicated to R&D;
• Aluminium beverage can industry recycling rate in Europe;
• Percentage of recycled input material used (aluminium);
• Variation (in percentage) of energy efficiency and energy consumptions;
• Greenhouse gas emissions (Scopes 1 & 2) and their intensity;
• Greenhouse gas emissions (Scopes 3);
• Air emissions (VOC, NOx, SO2, particulate materials);
• Water discharge by quality (COD, BOD5, suspended solids, fluorides, hydrocarbon, and dissolved aluminium);
• Water withdrawal by source;
• Quantity of hazardous and non-hazardous waste and their related disposal methods, and variation (in percentage) of the quantity 
of production waste sent to landfill;
• Percentage of spending on evaluated suppliers and percentage of key and at-risk suppliers who signed the Supplier Code of 
Conduct.
Qualitative information (actions and results):
• Mechanism (hotline) for advice and for concerns on ethics, number of complaints;
• Participations in different professional associations;
• Biodiversity initiatives;
• ASI certifications;
• Initiatives linked to community events;
• Diversity initiatives;
• Initiatives with person with a disability, and with students;
• Recycling initiatives.95
 ◄  ◄
Performance
About This Report
Reporting period
Financial year 2021
(January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021)
Date of publication
March 2022
Report scope
Financials are consolidated for all entities owned by Constellium and all operating joint ventures controlled by Constellium during reporting 
year 2021. The scope of extra-financial data is the same unless otherwise specified.
Contact
communications@constellium.com or sustainability@constellium.com
Assurance
Constellium’s non-financial performance statement (“déclaration de performance extra- financière”), included in this report (as specified on 
page 74), was verified by an independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit. PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit verified compliance of 
our statement with the provisions of the French Commercial Code (article R. 225-105), along with the fairness of the information provided 
in our statement, such as key performance indicators and measures taken to address risks (article R. 225-105 I, 3, and II of the French 
Commercial Code). The work of PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit was performed in accordance with the provisions of articles A. 225-1 et seq. 
of the French Commercial Code, determining the conditions under which an independent third party performs its engagement, and with the 
professional guidance of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements, as well as with ISAE 3000 
assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. The verification report of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Audit (included on page 89 of this report) describes in detail the verification work performed.
Coordination:  Corporate Communications Department and Sustainability Department
Design and production: 
Credits:  ©AdobeStock.com/ake1150, ©Adrien Daste/Constellium, ©Constellium, ©Ford Media Center, ©Getty Images/Adam Lubroth, 
©Getty Images/Maskot, ©Getty Images/Moazzam Ali Brohi, ©Getty Images/Westend61, ©Hubert Raguet/Constellium, ©iStockphoto.
com/Dean Mitchell, ©iStockphoto.com/efetova, ©iStockphoto.com/inhauscreative, ©iStockphoto.com/JoelBoily, ©iStockphoto.com/
MarioGuti, ©iStockphoto.com/MarioGuti, ©iStockphoto.com/okeyphotos, ©iStockphoto.com/rrecrutt, ©iStockphoto.com/SolStock, 
©NASA/MSFC, ©Shutterstock/Volodymyr Nikitenko, ©Unsplash.com/steeevewww.constellium.com