ALTOGETHER 
MORE 
SUSTAINABLE
Sustainability Report 
2012OUR SUSTAINABILITY CHARTER
WE ARE COMMITTED TO UNDERTAKING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF  
GOVERNANCE  OF OUR ACTIVITIES IN LINE WITH THE CONSTELLIUM’S VALUES.
 WE WILL 
Subscribe to the highest levels of transparency and accountability  
and commit to develop company and industry sustainability programs 
Promote the adoption and implementation of sustainability policies  
by our suppliers and contractors
 
   
WE ARE COMMITTED TO ENSURING OUR PEOPLE  ARE SAFE, SKILLED,  
MOTIVATED AND ENGAGED.
 
 WE WILL 
 
Protect the safety and health of our employees, contractors and visitors as a top priority 
Strive to enhance employee engagement and development
    
WE ARE COMMITTED TO MINIMIZING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT  
OF ALL OUR OPERATIONS  IN TERMS OF ENERGY, WASTE AND WATER.
 
 WE WILL 
 
Further develop recycling  
Optimize the use of natural resources, especially energy 
Prevent and minimize environmental impacts
    
WE ARE COMMITTED TO DEVELOPING, PRODUCING AND SELLING SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS  
THAT MEET OUR CUSTOMER NEEDS NOW AND IN THE FUTURE.
 
 WE WILL 
 
Maximize recycling rates of our products, including after end of use life
Continuously innovate and offer lighter, safer and infinitely recyclable solutions
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Report contains statements that relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “scheduled,” “should,” “could,” “will,” or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Constellium’s expectations, assumptions or projections about the future other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this Report regarding our sustainability efforts are subject to a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors and are not guarantees of future performance. Constellium disclaims any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.KEY PICTOGRAM  
Through its Sustainability 
Roadmap, Constellium 
indentified 12 main targets.  
You can find them through this 
Report thanks to this symbol.TABLE
OF CONTENTS
OPERATIONS
32  ENERGY EFFICIENCY
34  ENERGY MANAGEMENT
35  WATER
36  WASTE
PEOPLE
22  HEALTH AND SAFETY
24  MOTIVATION AND ENGAGEMENT
26  SKILL DEVELOPMENT
28  ETHICAL BEHAVIOR
29  COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENTPRODUCTS
40  RECYCLING
44  ECO-DESIGN
46  INNOVATION
49  CUSTOMER SATISFACTIONGOVERNANCE
14   INTERVIEW WITH LAURENT MUSY, CHAIRMAN  
OF CONSTELLIUM’S SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL
16  A CULTURE OF TRANSPARENCY
17  PARTNERSHIPS IN THE VALUE CHAININTRODUCTION
03  OUR SUSTAINABILITY CHARTER
04  EDITORIAL PIERRE VAREILLE, CEO
05  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
06  A GLOBAL NETWORK
08  COMBINING EXPERIENCE WITH AMBITION
09  ALUMINIUM, SOLUTIONS FOR TODAY’S NEEDS
10  LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT
11   OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS
GRI INDEX
50   GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE  DISCLOSURE INDEX
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 3 •• 4 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 5 •
BOARD STRUCTURE
The Board of Directors is responsible for  
our policy and day-to-day management. 
The non-executive directors supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Members and date of appointment:
 Richard B. Evans, Chairman, 01/05/2011
 Pierre Vareille, Director, 03/01/2012
 Gareth N. Turner, Director, 05/14/2010
 Philippe Guillemot*, Director, 05/21/2013
 Matthew H. Nord, Director, 05/14/2010
 Bret Clayton, Director, 01/05/201 1
 Guy Maugis*, Director, 01/05/2011
 Pieter Oosthoek*, Director, 05/21/2013
 Werner P.  Paschke*, Director, 05/21/2013 *  Director Independence: as a foreign private 
issuer under the NYSE rules, we are not required 
to have a majority of independent directors  
on our Board of Directors. However, our Board 
of Directors has determined that, under current 
NYSE listing standards regarding independence, 
and taking into account any applicable 
committee standards, we have 4 independent directors.
COMMITTEES
Committees include Audit Committee, 
Remuneration Committee, Nominating/Governance Committee. (Details of duties and responsibilities: see Constellium’s website and GRI Appendix.)Maximizing value for all our 
stakeholders over the  
long run is the essence of  
Constellium’s ambition 
with respect to sustainability. I firmly 
believe that for individuals, as for 
major corporations, values are the 
quintessence of who we are and what 
we stand for. 
Sustainability is certainly not a new 
concept for Constellium – we have a 
century of history behind us. But it is 
definitely one that we are determined 
to take to another level and to place at 
the heart of our strategy. 
By creating a Sustainability Council 
that reports directly to the Executive 
Committee and drawing up a Charter 
and a Roadmap that set out our vision 
and future direction with measurable targets, Constellium has 
underlined sustainability as a critical factor of its success.
Our stakeholders understand that Constellium cannot be driven  
by economic success alone. Our DNA is based on a strong culture 
of safety, empowerment and results, both operational and financial. 
In 2012, the company delivered in all three areas. Our safety record 
continued to improve, earnings rose meaningfully and the efficiency 
of our operations increased. Without doubt, 2012 was a successful year for the business. Total 
sales reached €3.61 billion and adjusted EBITDA rose 43% compared 
to 2011. This major improvement was primarily due to the talent and 
dedication of Constellium’s teams. It also reflects our commitment 
to excellence in providing innovative, value-added products to our 
customers, and to operating a world-class manufacturing organi -
zation. In this respect, the Lean Transformation program launched in 2012 across the company is already yielding results.More than any other aspect of the 
business, safety is an area where 
there can be no respite in our efforts 
to do more. While Constellium’s safety 
record improved significantly again 
in 2012 and is better than the industry 
average, a tragic accident at our plant 
in Levice, Slovakia, which claimed the 
life of a contractor in February 2013, has served as a potent reminder of 
the need for constant vigilance. At 
Constellium, we do not tolerate any 
deviation from safety regulations and 
behaviors, and we consider safety as 
everybody’s business, every day. 
As with safety, Constellium is com -
mitted to improving its performance 
in environmental matters. We are 
transparent about our greenhouse  
gas emissions, as a signatory to the  
Carbon Disclosure Project. We are also working with companies, 
industry organizations and institutions to promote standards in the 
supply chain – from extraction, right through to the recycling of finished products. 
The aluminium industry clearly faces a number of challenges, includ -
ing climate change, and Constellium is determined to actively and responsibly play its part in meeting those challenges across the 
overall value chain. Working with suppliers and customers, the  
company’s duty is to improve in both business performance and sustainability. And thanks to the efforts of all our employees, I am 
confident that Constellium will continue to deliver on both accounts.
PIERRE VAREILLE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERIntroduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
Constellium is a public limited company incorporated  
in the Netherlands. Our shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange 
and on Euronext Paris under the symbol “CSTM”.CORPORATE
Governance
Constellium answers to our shareholders,  
the Board of Directors and Committees, and 
operates in accordance with our “Worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct”  
(see page 28) .
BUSINESS GOVERNANCE
Constellium is managed through two management committees, both led by  
Pierre Vareille, CEO and which report to  
our Board of Directors:
 Operations Committee
 Executive Committee
OPERATIONS COMMITTEEChairman:  
Pierre Vareille, Chief Executive OfficerMembers:
 Didier Fontaine, Chief Financial Officer
 Christophe Villemin, President, Aerospace  
and Transportation Business Unit
 Laurent Musy, President, Packaging and 
Automotive Rolled Products Business Unit
 Paul Warton, President, Automotive 
Structures and Industry Business Unit
 Peter Basten, Vice-President Strategic 
Planning and Business Development 
 Marc Boone, Vice-President Human Resources
Scope of responsibilities:
 Develops and implements the operational 
business decisions, as defined by management and the Board of Directors
 Monitors the implementation and progress 
of significant operational projects Monitors the execution of the budget, and  
in particular the free cash flow generation  
of the business
 Submits reports, proposals and 
recommendations on all matters relating to the operations to the Executive Committee
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Consists of all the members of the Operations 
Committee plus the following:
 Jeremy Leach, Vice-President and Group 
General Counsel 
 Nicolas Brun, Vice-President Communications 
 Yves Merel, Vice-President Environment, 
Health and Safety (EHS) and Lean Transformation 
 Daniel James Altmeyer, Vice-President, 
Metal and Purchasing
Scope of responsibilities:
 Reviews all strategic issues and evaluates 
all significant proposed acquisitions or 
divestments, financial restructuring, alliances and strategic partnerships
 Develops and monitors implementation  
of key strategic, financial, investment and organizational decisions
 Controls the execution of the 5-year plan 
and of the budget
 Reviews reports and proposals made  
by the Operations Committee to evaluate  
their economic and financial consequences
 As and when required, submits reports, 
proposals and recommendations on  
all matters falling within its scope of responsibility to the Board of Directors
“Our DNA is based on a strong culture  
of safety, empowerment, and results,  
both operational and financial.”A GLOBAL NETWORK
of 26 production facilities
Our plants, offices and joint-ventures are located all over the 
world. They are supported by a world-class research center  
in Voreppe, France. Constellium is headquartered in Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands, with operational headquarters in Paris, 
France, and Zurich, Switzerland.
RAVENSWOOD, WEST VIRGINIA, USA
Headcount: 937
  Unique assets for aerospace plates
  Recognized supplier to the highly demanding  
defense industry
  Wide-coil capabilities and largest stretcher  worldwide enabling unique product creation
NOVI AND VAN BUREN, MICHIGAN, USA
Headcount: 91 (1)
  Advanced and highly productive integrated  
bumper manufacturing linesSINGEN AND GOTTMADINGEN, GERMANY
Headcount: 1,308
 Integrated hot/cold-rolling line
  One of the largest extrusion presses in the world 
  Advanced and highly productive integrated bumper manufacturing lines
 Crash management systems
VALAIS, SWITZERLAND
Headcount: 793
 Precision plate shop for general engineering products
  Leading large profile supplier for high-speed train  railway manufacturers
 Cast-houses in Steg and Chippis
  Sierre plate shop qualified at Airbus by 2013  and Steg cast house by 2014
DECIN, CZECH REPUBLIC
Headcount: 555
 Europe’s largest hard alloys extrusion plantNEUF-BRISACH, FRANCE
Headcount: 1,400
  Second-largest volume, fully integrated,  rolling mill in Europe
  Mostly can stock and automotive sheet
  World-class recycling center
ISSOIRE, FRANCE
Headcount: 1,387
  One of the world’s two leading aerospace plate mills, with wingskin capabilities
  New AIRWARE® cast house for low density alloys
VOREPPE, FRANCE
Headcount: 263
 World-class R&D centerCHANGCHUN AND KUNSHAN, CHINA (2)
Headcount: 290
  Joint-venture with Engley, majority-owned  by Constellium
  The two plants provide global customers  with bumpers and other structural modules  
from a local base
 Crash management systems
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 7 •Source: Company Information as of December 2012.
Note: Headcount does not include temporary employees.
(1) Novi only. Van Buren in ramp-up.(2) China is not included in the scope of this Report.OUR MAIN FACILITIES
• 6 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012• 8 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 9 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
CONSTELLIUM
Combining experience  
with ambitionALUMINIUM
Solutions for 
today’s needs
A leader in value-added aluminium products for a broad  
scope of markets and applications, Constellium is determined  
to keep improving its products and processes  
within its three business units.The mechanical properties  
of aluminium, combined with 
aesthetic appeal and an infinite 
life cycle, have established it  
as a material for the future.Constellium has been a key player in the 
aluminium industry for more than a century. 
Dedicated to aluminium transformation, the 
company’s production facilities are located 
mainly in France, Germany, Switzerland, the 
Czech Republic, Slovakia and the United 
States. Constellium has three primary mar -
kets: aerospace, automotive and packaging. 
These activities are fully managed by the 
company’s three business units (see left) .
TARGETING EXPANSION AND INNOVATION
Looking ahead, Constellium has ambitious 
plans for the future. These include an 
increased focus on our primary markets, 
geographical expansion in Asia and even 
greater product leadership through innova -
tion. The latter is being driven by our world-
class R&D Center in Voreppe, France, and supported by partnerships with leading 
universities and international research  
laboratories. Further resources are provided 
by Innovation Cells on the campus of the 
Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (EPFL) 
to support our business units – from the idea 
and prototype stages to business plans. 
Underlying all these activities is the convic -
tion that innovation has a key role to play  
in the sustainability of both our own products 
and processes, and also those of our  
customers.
DRIVING CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
Constellium has also embarked on an ambi -
tious transformation program of its opera -
tions at plant level. Continuous improvement 
programs, Lean management and manufac -
turing tools, plus a comprehensive training 
process are all being introduced to achieve 
a series of excellence targets by 2015.greater demand for the material. Aluminum’s 
many intrinsic qualities, including lightness, 
strength, formability, resistance to corrosion, 
thermal and electrical conductivity, and high 
reflectivity make it a material of choice for 
the 21st century. However, meeting that ris -
ing demand requires ensuring the industry’s 
sustainable growth, one where all the actors 
in a complex value chain meet the challenges 
of social and environmental diligence. Aluminium is the most abundant metal on 
the planet. Combined with its recyclability, 
the possible applications are boundless. 
Transport by plane, car and train, the pack -
aging of food and drinks, and the delivery  
of heat and light into our homes and offices 
all rely on aluminium. Yet these are just a few of its many uses.
A RANGE OF ACTIVITIES  
IN A SINGLE INDUSTRY
The aluminium industry broadly covers three 
activities: ore extraction and initial process -
ing, transformation into semi-products – 
where Constellium operates – and the 
lifecycle of the finished goods, which can 
subsequently be fully recycled. The rise in 
population urbanization and spending power 
among the emerging economies, coupled 
with an increasing preference for aluminium 
over other materials, have created ever 
AEROSPACE  
AND TRANSPORTATION
Provides technologically 
advanced aluminium and specialty materials products with wide applications across the global aerospace, defense, transportation and industrial sectors. Offers a wide range of products including plate, sheet, extrusions and precision casting products which allow Constellium to provide tailored solutions  
to its customers.AUTOMOTIVE 
STRUCTURES  AND INDUSTRY
Produces advanced solutions 
for the global premium automotive industry including crash management systems and other structural and safety parts and extrusions and large profiles mainly for road and rail transportation, energy and other industrial applications. Constellium complements this product range with a comprehensive offering of downstream technology and services, which include pre-machining, surface treatment and logistic support services. PACKAGING  
AND AUTOMOTIVE ROLLED PRODUCTS
Provides and recycles 
aluminium sheets and coils for packaging applications (beverage and food cans, closures, foils), automotive solutions, including high-performance products for auto  motive body-in-white 
and heat exchangers, as well as functional surfaces (for decorative, cosmetic, lighting and solar applications).
8,845  
employees 
(excludes 
Chinese 
joint-venture)75 %
of all the aluminium ever made  
is still in productive use
100 %
infinitely recyclable
26   
production  facilities +  
1 world-class 
R&D center1,033  KT  
aluminium  product  
shipments3,610  €M 
salesBauxite ore,
the raw material  
for aluminium, is mined.A chemical process
turns bauxite into  
alumina powder.Alumina is smelted
into aluminium  
by electrolysis.
Casthouse
Metal is alloyed 
and processed  
by casting, rolling  
or extrusion.The resulting 
materials
are manufactured  
into products.Each of these 
products
has its own usable 
lifetime.Recycling returns  
it to the production 
process.THE LIFE CYCLE OF ALUMINIUM
Aluminium provides a twist on the traditional life cycle in that, once born, it never dies.  
Infinitely recyclable, it exists in a continuous loop of formation and transformation.
2012 FIGURESOUR SUSTAINABILITY  
APPROACH
Constellium has developed a company-wide Sustainability Roadmap. As part  
of defining key economic, environmental and social objectives and indicators,  
the company’s Sustainability Council has determined targets, which were 
endorsed by Constellium’s Executive Committee. The reporting of these 
objectives and targets, notably in this document, covers our key areas of impact: 
Governance, People, Operations, and Products. The deadlines for reaching targets 
vary, but all share a common baseline starting in 2010.OBJECTIVES TARGETSGOVERNANCE
Subscribing to the 
highest levels of 
transparency and 
ensuring a responsible 
supply chainPEOPLE
Ensuring our employees 
are safe, skilled and 
motivated with ethical 
behaviors and regulatory 
complianceOPERATIONS
Minimizing the 
environmental impact  
of all our operations  
in the key areas: energy, 
water and wastePRODUCTS
Developing, producing 
and selling sustainable 
products: meeting the 
needs and reducing the 
environmental impact  
of our customers now 
and in the future
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 11 •
 • 10 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012Constellium Sustainability 
Manager, Dr. Oliver Néel explains 
why the Life Cycle Assessment  
is a key tool to evaluate  
the impact of aluminium.“Measuring the 
Full Life Cycle 
of aluminium 
products is 
crucial.”
DR. OLIVIER NÉEL
CONSTELLIUM SUSTAINABILITY MANAGERWhy use Life Cycle Assessment  
to measure environmental impact?
O. N.: Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) provides 
a wider view of a product’s environmental impact and covers all stages in a product’s 
life. It also provides tools for assessing  
different kinds of impact, not just carbon footprint or energy consumption. Assess -
ment spans raw material production, trans -
formation, transport, distribution, usage and 
end of life. 
How is LCA particularly suited  
to aluminium products?
O. N.: Aluminium is rather unique because 
there’s a big difference between the energy 
needed to produce primary aluminium and 
that required for recycling. Recycling has a 
carbon footprint that is 20 times smaller than 
primary production. Excluding recycling from 
assessment would ignore a major asset.  
It’s crucial for our industry to consider alu -
minium products’ full life cycle, including recycling and benefits related to its use.
How is LCA completed?
O. N.: Approaches and softwares vary. Even 
with the same software there are different 
ways of calculating LCA. LCA relies firstly on 
defining goal and scope, which determine 
how boundaries, calculations and results can be used. Then you need to build a data -
base connecting all the impacts associated 
with every step in a product’s life. Choosing 
the right data is critical.
Is the approach different for all products?
O. N.: The general approach is the same;  
the difference comes from the boundaries 
you may set and the parameters you use. For 
aerospace and automotive, the usage phase 
generates environmental savings due to light 
weighting: more aluminium means less weight, hence less fuel consumption. The 
usage phase of a beverage can is more or 
less carbon neutral, so recycling and efficient 
transportation have more impact. When you 
study a case, you need to define what method 
and data are most relevant for this case. 
What are the challenges of LCA? 
O. N.: LCA is complex so it needs to be handled 
properly to yield relevant results. Overlook -
ing the effect of data quality and boundaries 
settings can be misleading. New LCA meth -
odologies are also under development. For 
instance, dynamic LCA aims to introduce time 
duration to the model, which is key for long-
lived products. Another new development 
is Social LCA, which measures the conse -
quences of a product’s life cycle on people.Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
LCA AT CONSTELLIUM
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is imple -
mented in a number of sectors. LCA 
was first devised to meet the specific 
needs of businesses looking to develop 
and enhance their products and ser -
vices while respecting the environ -
ment. Constellium has designed simplified tools to quickly perform  
LCA (conforming to ISO 14040) for its different products.
  75% beverage can 
recycling rate in Europe by 2015
  All major new innovation  
projects through Life Cycle Assessment
  10% of sales from innovative products  by 2015  10% decrease in energy consumption per processed unit by 2015
  75% total landfill  reduction by 2020
  Major European sites  reaching ISO 50001 certification by 2015  60% improvement  in recordable cases  by 2014
  No serious injuries in 2015
  50% improvement in employee contributions  by 2014
  75% participation rate  in the employee survey in 2014
  6 point improvement  in the employee satisfaction rate in 2014  100% of key suppliers joining the UNGC by 2015Governance
Transparency, commitment  
and partnership100%
of key suppliers joining  
the United Nations  
Global Compact (UNGC)  
by 2015
Progress in sustainability depends on a number  
of factors, including the need for governance.  
At Constellium, we are working on a series of  
measures covering transparency, commitment  
and partnership.
The starting point for sustainability is a rigorous 
disclosure of the company’s environmental and  
social impacts, based on recognized standards,  
such as the Carbon Disclosure Project for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions. Our commitments include  
those we establish internally, through Constellium’s Sustainability Council and Sustainability Roadmap,  
and externally, by taking part in established programs. As a mid-stream member of the value chain, we believe Constellium is ideally situated to improve sustainability 
by creating partnerships with customers, suppliers  
and multi-stakeholder groups.
• 14 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 15 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
Laurent Musy, Chairman of Constellium’s Sustainability Council, 
discusses the company’s values and future vision for sustainable 
development.“A responsible  
partner in the chain  
of sustainable 
aluminium.”
LAURENT MUSY  
CHAIRMAN OF CONSTELLIUM’S SUSTAINABILITY 
COUNCIL, MEMBER OF THE EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE, AND PRESIDENT PACKAGING  
& AUTOMOTIVE ROLLED PRODUCTS
What was the inspiration behind 
Constellium’s decision to produce  
a Roadmap and a Report on sustainability? 
L. M.: When Constellium was established as 
a standalone company at the beginning  
of 2011, we felt there was a clear need to 
establish our own policies and programs for 
sustainability. Sustainability is a major topic 
in our industry that we discuss regularly with 
customers and other stakeholders. We 
believe there is an important point to be made 
about the qualities of aluminium – such as 
its light weight and infinite recyclability – and 
how these can help provide a sustainable 
solution for a wide range of industries in 
terms of improved energy consumption, 
reduced CO 2 emissions, waste reduction and 
more generally resource efficiency. At the 
same time, we need to be transparent in what 
we do ourselves; and that involves not only 
taking steps to reduce our environmental 
footprint, but also providing reports about 
those steps. We are part of a chain. As such, 
we have to ensure that everyone – from sup -
pliers through to customers – acts respon -
sibly, so that we can continue to increase the use of our metal.How did you develop the Sustainability Roadmap?
L. M.:  The starting point was to create a 
Sustainability Council, gathering represent -
atives from all the business units and  
support functions, along with experts who 
could define and then implement the various 
action plans. In each case, whether they concerned departments such as Human 
Resources, Product Development or Sales, 
the objective was to make a quantitative improvement in our processes. That said, 
we were not starting from scratch, as the 
company had already carried out a number 
of sustainability initiatives in the past. The 
key was really to gather all the different 
initiatives together, to make sure we had  
the right kind of governance in place and  
to ensure they were aligned with the strat -
egy set out by the Sustainability Council and 
endorsed by the Executive Committee.
What are the main priorities  
of your Sustainability Roadmap?
L. M.: Our priorities are in four distinct areas: 
Governance –  which includes Sourcing  –  
People, Operations and Products. In terms of Sourcing, we want to be part of a respon -
sible supply chain, and to work with suppli -
ers who themselves are committed to doing 
business in a sustainable way. For People, the 
priority is clearly the safety of our employees, 
contractors and site visitors; and by far our greatest responsibility. 
Employees should meanwhile be skilled and 
motivated, so engaging everyone in the com -
pany is definitely a priority. We are making 
sure that our people are committed and that 
they are aware of our goals, our policies on sustainability and the action plans we are 
developing. What’s more, they should act  
in full compliance with our ethical principles 
and regulations. In Operations we aim to 
minimize our environmental impact across 
the plants, especially with respect to energy, 
water use and landfill. Lastly, for Products, 
the priorities are to meet the needs of our customers and to also reduce the environ -
mental impact of manufacturing processes, 
both now and in the future. The point about 
these four areas is that Constellium is being 
proactive in the field of sustainability and is 
determined to reduce its environmental 
footprint. It’s something we want to demon -
strate both internally, to our own people, and 
also externally, to all stakeholders (custom -
ers, suppliers, NGOs, etc.). How do your external initiatives  
help with sustainability?
L. M.: Some of our sustainability targets are 
mainly internal; for example, we want to pro -
duce more while using less energy. But some 
of our targets are “external”, in the sense that 
they involve other parts of the aluminium  
value chain, and therefore require us to think 
and act in global terms. One of our aims, for instance, is to increase the recycling rate of 
beverage cans in Europe from 67% in 2010  
to 75% by 2015. But we cannot achieve that 
alone: it’s a target for the whole industry and 
other stakeholders like the national “green 
dot” organizations. Our role is not limited  
to recycling cans in our own facilities, but to supporting a system that makes it possible 
to collect and process used cans, so that we achieve this objective together as an industry. 
Another external aspect of our sustainability 
strategy involves the verification of everything 
we do. We need to be more transparent, and ensure that work is being done according to 
relevant standards and can be certified by 
independent auditors. That way, there can 
be no doubt about how we’re achieving our 
objectives. The bottom line is that we want 
to consolidate our position as a leader of an 
industry that is working hard to build an ever 
more sustainable future.
How will your Sustainability Roadmap 
evolve over time?
L. M.: We will keep improving, for sure, and 
notably by setting new targets. We are taking 
nothing for granted. We want to look at build -
ing partnerships with groups that we haven’t 
traditionally engaged with in the past, such 
as NGOs. I also believe we will move increas -
ingly towards an eco-design approach, which 
will further improve recyclability and reduce 
the carbon footprint of our products. Eco-design is not only a production target, 
but a concept that involves a full Life Cycle 
Assessment of our products. So, whenever 
we create a new product or process, we will 
assess its environmental impact over time 
and how we can minimize that.“We are part of a chain.  
As such, we have  
to ensure that everyone  
– from suppliers through  
to customers –  
acts responsibly.”
THE SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL
On October 1st, 2012, Constellium created the Sustainability Council in charge 
of defining and updating sustainability policy and linking it with the company’s 
overall corporate strategy. Bringing together representatives of all the key 
functions within the company, the Council decides key environmental and 
social objectives and indicators, proposes quantitative targets and measures 
the progress of sustainability performance. The Council also reviews sustain -
ability projects proposed by stakeholders including customers, suppliers and 
NGOs. Accurate disclosure of sustainability data and management approach 
to third parties also falls under the Council’s key missions. One of the Council’s 
first key actions was to join the UN Global Compact, which we now fully  
support and promote.
• 16 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 17 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
A CULTURE  
OF TRANSPARENCY PARTNERSHIPS 
IN THE VALUE 
CHAIN 
In Constellium’s Sustainability Roadmap, reporting to external initiatives  
is an essential mission. They provide guidance on key issues and useful 
frameworks to track and monitor progress. Disclosing performance helps  
to ensure good reporting procedures and systems where transparency is central.
A RECOGNIZED 
STANDARD FOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  
is aiming to make sustainability report -
ing a corporate standard practice. 
Since 1999, GRI has provided a com -
prehensive Sustainability Reporting 
Framework whose cornerstone is a set 
of guidelines. As a result of the credi -
bility, consistency and comparability 
it offers, GRI’s Framework has become 
a de facto standard in sustainability 
reporting. Constellium’s Sustainability 
Report has been written according to the GRI 3.1 criteria.During the course of 2012, Constellium 
reported for the first time its carbon footprint and management approach to climate change 
to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The CDP initiative has provided a valuable 
opportunity to analyze GHG emissions per -
formance and disclosure and identify areas 
for improvement, as well as fulfilling the 
request of a key customer. We have commit -
ted to disclose our GHG emissions every year.While fully aware of its own 
responsibilities, Constellium 
cooperates with a range  
of partners to improve the 
sustainability of aluminium. 
Beyond ISO certification, which requires  
regular auditing of our suppliers, the “General 
purchasing conditions” of every contract 
requires them to endorse and implement the 
“Constellium Worldwide Code of Employee 
and Business Conduct”, helping to build a 
responsible supply chain.
In addition, our Sustainable Roadmap fixes 
the target that all our key suppliers* of alu -
minium, alloys and energy join the United 
Nations Global Compact (UNGC) by 2015. The 
UNGC offers an international voluntary stand -
ard based on ten principles for Human Rights, 
Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. 
Constellium also endorses these principles. 
The UNGC helps us improve transparency  
and accountability; at the end of 2012, 25% of our key suppliers had joined.
*  For Constellium, “key supplier” means one with which 
we have an established business relationship of at 
least 3 years and significant revenues.
100%
of key suppliers  
joining the UNGC  
by 2015
“WORKING TOGETHER  
FOR A CLEANER,  
MORE PRODUCTIVE 
TECHNOLOGY.”
François Pingret relates how significant 
reductions in fuel consumption and CO 2 
emissions were achieved through 
working with Constellium.
Can you briefly describe  
Linde’s activities?F. P.: Linde is a world-leading gases and 
engineering company with approximately 
62,000 employees working in more than 100 countries worldwide.
How long have you been working  
with Constellium?
F. P.: We have supplied Constellium with 
industrial gas (Nitrogen, Argon…) for some 
time. More recently, since 2009, we have been working together on a program to 
optimize rotary furnaces through the 
installation of oxyfuel burners.
How does Linde’s sustainable 
development policy fit with 
Constellium’s?
F. P.: Like Constellium, Linde follows  
corporate responsibility guidelines as a 
contribution to sustainable development. 
We are committed to treating people and 
the environment with respect, protecting 
natural resources and developing sus -
tainable technologies and products. One  specific policy is called “Energy and the Environment” and includes improving  
traditional industrial applications like 
melting aluminium with pure oxygen. We’ve 
been sharing a lot with Constellium on the 
subject of reducing energy consumption.
Could you describe the projects 
you share with Constellium?
F. P.: We have a close collaboration between 
our teams and those of Constellium, at the Neuf-Brisach plant but also at the 
Constellium Research Center in Voreppe. 
On a specific project, we fitted a furnace at the Neuf-Brisach plant with oxyfuel 
technology. This is a combustion process 
combined with low-temperature oxyfuel fuel burner that increases productivity 
and reduces emissions. We have reduced 
fuel consumption by 60% and increased productivity by 20%. This achievement 
came from working very closely with  
Constellium and getting full support from 
their teams.
What future plans are there to improve 
sustainability in partnership with 
Constellium?
F. P.: Constellium and Linde are set to  
officially start cooperating on an R&D  
program: our two research teams are going 
to collaborate, starting from the outset, 
on improving the aluminium metal produc -
tion process, achieving better yields and 
optimizing fuel consumption, starting with 
the melting of the metal. For the moment one furnace at Constellium has been 
equipped with oxy-combustion technol -
ogy, so there is quite a lot of room left for 
future work on sustainability in terms of 
energy consumption, emissions and pro -
ductivity for Constellium’s rotary furnaces 
and other applications.F R A N Ç O I S 
PINGRET
MARKETING AND 
APPLICATION 
DIRECTOR  
AT LINDE FRANCE• 18 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 19 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
“To ensure 
quality and 
transparency.” 
Tell us about the International Union  
for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)  
and its actions?
G. C.: IUCN is the world’s oldest and largest 
global environmental organization, with more 
than 1,200 government and NGO members. 
IUCN’s work focuses on valuing and conserv -
ing nature, ensuring effective and equitable 
governance of its use, and deploying nature-
based solutions to global challenges in cli -
mate, food and development. IUCN supports 
scientific research, manages field projects all over the world, and brings governments, 
NGOs, the UN and companies together to 
develop policy, laws and best practice.
IUCN is the coordinator of ASI, 
can you describe the initiative?
G. C.: The Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 
(ASI) was launched in 2012 by Amcor Flexi -
bles, Austria Metall AG /Constantia Flexibles, Constellium, Nespresso, Rio Tinto Alcan and 
Tetra Pak, together with IUCN; and joined  
by Aleris, Audi, Ball Corporation, BMW Group, 
Hydro, Novelis and Rexam. Its aim is to develop 
the ASI Standard to improve the overall  
sustainability performance of aluminium. 
The process is coordinated by IUCN, whose 
main role is to ensure that it is robust and 
transparent. The challenge is to set a global 
standard for aluminium sustainability across 
the value chain by the end of 2014.
Why has IUCN undertaken this mission?
G. C.: IUCN is highly engaged with extractive 
industries due to their high biodiversity foot -
prints. Bauxite mining, which is the origin of 
aluminium, was the initial reason that the 
IUCN undertook this mission.
How do you see the role of Constellium 
in building the ASI standard?G. C.: Constellium was a key partner right 
from the start, dedicating resources and 
allowing us to reach a critical stage of devel -
opment. As a mid-stream industry leader, 
with industrial suppliers and customers, 
Constellium is an ambassador of the ASI 
influencing both upstream and downstream 
players. It plays an active role in introducing 
new members to the ASI initiative, opening 
doors and finding common ground between 
diverging interests. Although we now have 
13 members, more participants from the 
primary producers, construction, aerospace 
and consumer electronics sectors are needed.
GIULIA CARBONE
DEPUTY HEAD OF THE BUSINESS  
AND BIODIVERSITY PROGRAM AT IUCN  
AND ASI COORDINATORJOHN REVESS
REXAM’S GROUP DIRECTOR OF SUSTAINABILITYThe aim of the Aluminium 
Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Standard 
is to foster responsible resource 
management of aluminium  
through the entire value chain.
ASI: SETTING UP THE ALUMINIUM 
STANDARD
Supported by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), ASI is a  
non-profit initiative that gathers diverse stakeholders to create a global standard  
of sustainable practices in the aluminium industry, from mining to waste disposal 
and recycling. As a founding member of ASI, Constellium is committed to actively 
participate in the standard setting process.
REXAM,  
A MAJOR 
CUSTOMER  
a partner in 
sustainability
As a world leader in beverage  
can making, Rexam is both  
a strategic customer for 
Constellium and a partner  
in sustainability initiatives. 
With a vast network of more than 60 plants 
around the world, Rexam produces some  
60 billion beverage cans a year, most of them 
in aluminium. Not surprisingly, it is also a highly valued customer of Constellium, and 
a partner in driving the sustainability agenda. 
“Creating a sustainable business is central to 
our vision of being the best within our industry,” 
declared John Revess, Rexam’s Group Direc -
tor of Sustainability. To achieve that, Rexam wants a supply chain that shares its desire 
to further improve the sustainability of the 
business and that is willing to work as a team.
A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN
“Constellium is a longstanding partner of 
Rexam,” John Revess affirmed. “In terms of 
sustainability, we know they have been doing 
the right thing for many years: focusing on 
health and safety, plant efficiency and end-of- 
life recycling initiatives. These are key activ -
ities within Rexam and we need Constellium 
to be a partner with us, ensuring we can 
achieve faster progress in those areas, and 
to help us to assure our customers that we 
are taking care of those issues for them.”  
Indeed, this link between the supply chain 
and public perceptions of the beverage can 
industry is a particularly important one for 
Rexam. “As sustainability continues to grow as a critical theme for consumers, for society, 
it affects the brands that we supply to – and 
therefore becomes a critical issue for our 
business,”  John Revess explained. “So we 
need suppliers to see their long-term future as being to minimize their environmental 
impacts, to ensure high standards of govern -
ance, and to continue to support the overall longstanding sustainability of our industry.”
 
SPIRIT OF COOPERATION
Cooperation clearly has an important role to 
play in that contribution. “There are a couple 
of great examples where we work together with 
Constellium on sustainability issues,” John 
Revess commented. “One of them is the Alu -
minium Stewardship Initiative (see page 18), 
which Rexam has joined and Constellium I know 
was one of the founding members. Together we 
are seeking to write a standard that will demon -
strate improving sustainability in the perfor -
mance of aluminium.” Meanwhile, in countries 
where can recycling rates are below average, the two companies are working together to 
improve the infrastructure, government policy, 
consumer behavior and communication around 
the environmental benefits of recycling. 
LOOKING AHEAD
As for the future, areas such as traceability 
and recycling will only continue to grow in 
importance. However, this doesn’t mean that 
sustainability has to be a drain on financial 
resources; quite the contrary. “Sustainability 
isn’t about adding cost into a business,” argues 
John Revess. “It should be about how to take 
cost out of the business for the long term – 
through health and safety, running plants more 
efficiently and ensuring we have a sustainable 
business model.” One part of that model will 
be to increase can recycling rates in Europe, 
which in percentage terms are currently in the mid-60s – while the industry target is to 
reach 80% by 2020. “The sustainability jour -
ney is a long one and already with Constellium 
we’ve come a long way,” commented John 
Revess. “We look forward to working together 
to ensure we pass on the benefits of sustain -
ability to our customers – so that they continue 
to choose beverage cans for the long term.”
1 1,000
employees
24
countries,  
at 67 manufacturing plants
£4.76  billion
of sales (€5.63 billion) in 2012 
+6%
growth in beverage  
can global volumes in 2012REXAM IN FIGURESPeople
The safety of our people is at the very heart of 
Constellium’s business activities. Excellence in  
Health and Safety, and ensuring that our employees, 
contractors and visitors return home safely is of 
paramount importance to the company. A series  
of continuous improvement programs that have  
been rolled out globally, together with the consistent 
application of Lean tools for problem solving and behavior management on the shop floor, will help 
Constellium to meet its ambitious Environment,  
Health and Safety (EHS) targets. 
At the same time, the company is also underlining  
the importance to its employees of complying with 
legal and company standards of ethical behavior. Developing skills and empowering staff are  
additional core HR principles. Where skills and safety meet0
serious injuries  
in 201550%
improvement  
in employee contributions  
by 201460%
improvement in recordable 
cases by 2014
75%
participation rate  
in the employee survey  
in 20146 point
improvement in the employee  
satisfaction rate in 2014• 22 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 23 •
each attracting some 40 competition entries. 
The winning projects were a hoist device for 
long aluminium profiles and a warning light 
for forklift drivers about the presence of 
pedestrians in stacking areas, with both 
underlining the practical nature of these 
sessions. 
Clearly, training has a vital role in driving 
home the EHS message. One key element  
of this is a Leadership program that sets  
out Constellium’s policies and objectives  
to management staff. A complementary module for Front Line Managers provides 
training in a range of specific areas such  
as incident investigation and analysis, risk 
management and promoting the company’s 
rules on safety.Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
Despite this progress, the company is deter -
mined to take this performance to the next 
level. To deliver on this, Constellium is focus -
ing on three areas – involving and empow -
ering employees in EHS matters in their 
everyday work, setting clear objectives and 
monitoring progress in achieving them.  
Production sites are observed on a monthly 
basis to ensure they are on course to achieve 
these objectives.
SIGNING UP TO SAFETY
However, safety in the workplace is far more 
than just a commitment to numbers; it’s 
about making sure that people sign up to the 
mindset of achieving a safe workplace.  
Constellium’s Chief Executive Officer, Pierre 
Vareille, highlighted this point in November 
2012 by inviting all staff to join him in signing 
a personal commitment to EHS FIRST . Organ -
ized as part of the annual Global EHS FIRST 
Day event, employees at all Constellium sites 
demonstrated their support by signing the  
commitment. THE BENEFITS OF SHARING  
AND TRAINING
Two other valuable tools are the regular 
exchange of best practices and training. 
Sharing is achieved through EHS Network 
meetings, where participants are updated 
on new EHS FIRST  priorities and programs, 
share their issues and successes and come 
together to find the best solution to common 
problems. It is also an opportunity to choose 
and celebrate the winners of the Best Prac -
tice Competition. Two such Network meet -
ings were held during April and October 2012, HEALTH AND SAFETY  
Heading in the right 
direction
EHS is our first and foremost responsibility.  
A great deal has been achieved in terms of safety since 
EHS FIRST  was introduced 10 years ago, with the number  
of accidents being reduced more than four-fold between 
2004 and 2012 including our contractors  
as well as employees. RAISING OUR STANDARDS
The number of recordable cases and serious injuries at Constellium plants, which includes those involving contractors, is reducing each year. 
Constellium is determined to improve its safety record and fully 
recognizes that the task is a relentless one.
NUMBER OF RECORDABLE CASES (RC)
220
195
170
145
120
95
70
45
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Projects contractors and visitors have been systematically included  in these statistics since 2008. Before that, only “extended” contractors 
such as canteen and security staff, were included.NUMBER OF SERIOUS INJURIES (SI) INCLUDING FATALITIES
8
765
4
321
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 201260%
improvement  
in recordable cases  
by 2014
0
serious injuries  
in 2015
COMMITMENT
EHS FIRST  Day
My Commitment signing 
event on EHS FIRST  Day,  
November 14th, 2012
“There was a great deal of 
enthusiasm this year, especially  
on the shop floor. A lot of employees commented that they have been 
committed to EHS for a long time, 
signing the commitment is now  
the confirmation.”
Michèle Godicheau, EHS Manager,  
Montreuil-Juigné, FranceRecordable case rate is the number of recordable cases 
per 200,000 working hours.RECORDABLE CASES RATE
3
2,5
2
1,5
1
0,5
0
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012• 24 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 25 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
Constellium is determined to drive this pro -
cess of dialogue and interaction, and as part 
of its Lean Transformation program has set 
a target of half its employees contributing 
one suggestion for improvements every month 
by 2014. Further targets were set following 
the company’s first Global Employee Survey, which was carried out in 2012 and highlighted 
employee engagement and career develop -
ment as areas for improvement. Constellium 
responded with a comprehensive program  
of management training, new HR policies  
on recruitment and a renewed focus on  
performance management. MOTIVATION  
AND ENGAGEMENT
Helping to make Constellium  
a better place to work
The key to achieving excellence and adapting to change is having 
employees who are willing to make a personal contribution.  
In turn, that commitment needs a solid foundation: one based  
on real dialogue between managers and the factory floor  
– and targets to ensure regular progress. 
75%
participation rate  
in the employee survey  
in 2014
6 point
improvement in the 
employee satisfaction 
rate in 2014
The Gold, Silver and Bronze awards, which reflect our business  
strategy and priorities, were divided into four categories in 2012:  
EHS FIRST  and Sustainability, Operational excellence, Customers and 
Innovation. A record total of 33 entries were received. A meticulous, three-stage selection process then began with a panel of experts, 
followed by a Selection Committee and finally a review by the Operations Committee and Constellium 
CEO, Pierre Vareille, who also hosted a gala evening for the Gold award winners at Decin, Czech Republic.
For the other winners, ceremonies were organized by their respective sites. At Neuf-Brisach, in France, the Silver award team received its prize during a dinner held at the prestigious  
Château d’Isenbourg nearby. The following day, a special event was held at the plant to celebrate  
the contribution of the wider team – including all the shift operators.THANK YOU AWARDS
Introduced in 2007 , the annual Thank You  
Awards are an opportunity to recognize  and reward employees who have created 
exceptional value for Constellium. MATTER OF FACTS
“EHS FIRST  & SUSTAINABILITY” CATEGORY. WINNING ENTRY: A COMPETITION TO IMPROVE 
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE AT THE DECIN PLANT.
GOLD 
AWARD
50%
improvement in  
employee contributions 
by 2014• 26 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 27 •
SKILL DEVELOPMENT
Delivering technical expertise, operational 
excellence and Lean Leadership 
To meet the current and future needs of its customers, Constellium  
has a duty to keep improving its technological and industrial talent.  
Skill development at Constellium is a combination of corporate programs  
and training at site, function or business unit level.
and Manufacturing leaders. For those already 
in a managerial role, a Lean Leadership Pro -
gram has been devised to develop the Lean 
skills and tools of newly-designated Lean 
Managers and to also help Front Line Manag -
ers apply the leadership needed to deliver 
Constellium’s transformation. 
The key principles of Lean Leadership are to 
lead by example, to inspire trust and to be 
rigorous in managing the work being carried 
out, whether on the shop floor elsewhere. 
Teamwork, effective two-way communication 
and a willingness to drive daily performance 
and continuous improvements are further qualities expected from Lean leaders.
Lean Leadership also enables leaders to 
teach and share their knowledge. All Front KNOWLEDGE TRANSFER
The Apprentice Program in France is designed 
to meet the need for skilled shop-floor staff 
in the years ahead. The aim is to attract young 
apprentices who will combine working with 
studying for a vocational qualification. Appren -
ticeships are for two to three years with exams 
to be taken in maintenance, electro-mechan -
ics or automated systems. This Apprentice 
Program already exists at Constellium plants 
in Singen, Germany and Sierre, Switzerland 
and not only are there apprentices on the shop 
floor but also in support functions such as Administration, Finance and Sales. 
“Our approach is really to develop a learning 
cluster dedicated to careers in production 
activities considering our workforce age pyr -
amid and thus ultimately ensure the replace -
ment of future retirees,”  explains Thierry Carré, 
Human Resources Director, Neuf-Brisach.
IMPROVING THE COMPANY
A different approach again is taken to improv -
ing the existing professional skills of people 
within Constellium. For technical staff, the 
company is in the process of setting out poten -
tial career ladders in various fields, indicating 
the precise skills and knowledge that staff will 
need to pursue them. The Technical Ladder Program aims to give the same opportunity 
for promotion and rewards to the Technical, 
Project management, Research & Technology Line Managers are trained by their hierar -
chical supervisor in the essentials of leader -
ship. All Lean training documents, standards 
and methodological supports are available 
on our intranet platform.
By training managers who then share what they 
have learned with their teams, Constellium will 
be able to achieve a major transformation, one 
that will empower every member of staff to 
make a contribution and take responsibility for 
their working environment. For as Yves Merel, 
Vice President EHS and Lean, has pointed out: 
“Lean is in everyone’s interest. If we improve our production, delivery and quality we will 
increase customer satisfaction, the safety and 
the work conditions of our colleagues and secure 
a long-term future for all our employees.”
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
The 40 Lean Managers appointed to Constellium plants were taught to use initial tools, such as 5S*, 
Lean Visual Control and Standards, the Flow Segregation principles and Lean Leadership. However, 
it was far from being just an academic exercise. Five hours were devoted to sharing Lean tools  
with Sierre’s operators and plant management, so that those being trained benefited from the  
theory and practice of introducing Lean at a Constellium plant.
*5S means: Sort, Straighten, Shine, Standardize, and Sustain.LEAN MANAGER TRAINING  
SESSION AT SIERRE
Training in this vital area is intensive, as those who attended  
the first three-day session of the Lean Manager School at Sierre, Switzerland, can testify. MATTER OF FACTS
“Gathering with all the Lean Managers from different sites was 
not only a great opportunity to exchange personal experience 
and best practices for applying Lean tools, but also to put them 
directly into practice on the shop floor.”
CAROLA SCHINDLER, LEAN MANAGER, SINGEN CASTHOUSE.
LEAN MANAGER SCHOOL EVENT, SIERRE, NOVEMBER 20-22, 2012.
• 28 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 29 •
in her charity work for the American Cancer 
Society. Emily leads a Ravenswood team of 
fundraisers who are kept busy throughout 
the year but whose high point is the annual 
local “Relay for Life” event, one of many 
sponsored overnight walks held across  
America. In addition, Constellium has helped 
Abdelmajid Jabbour balance his work in Paris 
on our corporate websites with his training 
regime as a kayaker (see picture) .
OPPORTUNITIES FOR LEARNING  
AND HELPING
Reaching out to the local community was  
the idea behind the Family Day at Singen, held to celebrate 100 years of activity at  
the site – which is home to three companies 
including Constellium. Employees and their 
families were all invited, and more than 7,000 people attended. All came away with 
a better insight into the site’s history and 
how Singen turns aluminium into everyday 
products.
Supporting its employees in their private 
initiatives and providing opportunities for 
local communities to get to know the com -
pany better are just some of the ways that  
Constellium acts on those responsibilities. 
For example, Constellium has supported 
Emily Tippens, a Converter Administrator  
at our Ravenswood plant, for several years COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT
Reaching out to local people 
As a major employer at our locations, Constellium is well 
aware of its responsibilities not only to the local economy,  
but also to the local community. Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
SOLAR COOKERS
Constellium recently supported a pro -
ject by ATD Fourth World to Madagascar, 
by donating solar cookers, made from 
our aluminium. In the past we have also 
taken part in projects in Nepal and India. 
Solar cookers produce no emissions, 
benefitting human health and the  
environment.ETHICAL BEHAVIOR
A clear code for proper conduct 
For multinational corporations, whatever their sector of activity, the issue  
of business ethics has become an increasingly important one over the past decade.  
It’s also an area where Constellium is taking a significant stand.
The Constellium Worldwide Code of Employee 
and Business Conduct is a comprehensive guide to the ethical behavior expected of  
its employees, both inside and outside the  
company. The key areas include respect for 
human rights and equality in the workplace, 
and conformity with EHS policies and prac -
tices. Considerable space is also devoted to 
the ethical conduct of business dealings – 
including policies on gifts and entertainment, 
competition issues, conflicts of interest and 
financial integrity. 
ONLINE TOOL FOR DECISION MAKING 
SIMULATION
An online tool was developed to deliver the 
Code in a way that makes it easier to engage 
employees. Being interactive, it creates a 
series of real-world scenarios that raise 
moral dilemmas – which the user then has 
to tackle correctly. Reminders and sum -
maries of the Code are available for the user 
to consult along the way. The net effect is to 
help employees to properly understand the 
code’s rules and the intention behind them, 
and to be able to apply them in a practical situation. Throughout 2013, 100% of man -
agement grades will have completed the online code of conduct training. 
The Code of Conduct is available on our website  
in six languages.Operations
Aluminium is an energy-intensive industry.  
Although this energy is primarily focused on upstream 
extraction and smelting, Constellium is determined  
to maximize the efficiency of its further downstream 
aluminium operations. Though the task is complex,  
the objective is simple: to provide the best possible 
products, with the lowest possible environmental 
impact. 
Constellium has set internal targets to improve 
sustainability in the most relevant areas of the 
aluminium transformation: energy efficiency  
and waste reduction. Along with its quantitative  
objectives, Constellium is also committed to 
demonstrate its compliance to the highest level  of international standards in terms of energy 
management.Managing sustainablyISO 50001 
major European sites  
reaching certification  
by 201575% 
total landfill  
reduction by 202010% 
decrease in energy 
consumption per 
processed unit by 2015 • 32 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 33 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
As a major cost contributor, energy consump -
tion has always been managed carefully 
within Constellium sites.
As early as 2006, a dedicated Best Practice 
Council, sponsored by internal technology 
leaders, was formed to leverage energy con -
sumption reduction initiatives. Combining expertise in the Voreppe Research Center, 
and experience at plant level, the technology 
teams identify the most efficient technolo -
gies and processes.
Considerable attention is devoted to burners, 
which alone account for about two-thirds  
of Constellium’s total energy consumption: 
a large number of these have been and will 
be upgraded or replaced. Dedicated programs 
are bringing process efficiency improvement 
through leaner manufacturing, with a short -
ening or even the complete removal of energy- 
intensive thermal treatment steps. There is 
also focus on optimizing overall equipment 
loading and reducing material waste across 
the entire manufacturing process.ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
Optimizing consumption  
and controlling CO 2 emissions
In the aluminium downstream industry, energy consumption is by far  
the largest source of greenhouse gases. To reduce our carbon footprint,  
we need to be proactive in optimizing the efficiency of that consumption. 
DECIN’S PRACTICAL APPROACH
Focused on reducing energy consumption and billings, meetings are regularly held in Decin plant, in the Czech Republic. They aim at introducing practical initiatives 
leading to energy conservation. A new lighting project on the shopfloor decreased 
lighting energy consumption by nearly 80% by using the latest T5 fluorescent tubes.2006 2010 2011 2012
Total energy consumption  
(TJ/year)13,491 10,890 10,810 10,936
Direct, indirect & process CO 2 
(emissions in kTons/year)844.7 693.8 685.9 701.2
Energy consumption per processed unit (base 100 in 2010)99.7 100 96.7 92.4ENERGY CONSUMPTION DATA AND CO 2 EMISSIONS
Significant improvements have been achieved in energy consumption per processed  
unit since 2010, mostly resulting from the valuable long-term efforts that help to reach 
energy efficiency maturity throughout the Constellium plants, including a specific focus 
on new equipment (see below) . However, this efficiency improvement doesn’t materialize 
into decreased energy consumption as sales are steadily moving towards families of products that require additional and complex thermal treatments and thus more energy 
to manufacture. This is especially true for aerospace and automotive applications,  
where our products bring a high value to our customers and are a key driver of fossil fuel 
consumption reduction and CO
2 emissions savings through lightweighting.
MATTER OF FACTS
At Neuf-Brisach, France, the company has installed a new burner for beverage can recycling. 
This equipment is called an “oxyfuel burner” because it uses oxygen instead of air to support 
combustion. The introduction of oxyfuel burners for the recycling furnace has improved energy 
efficiency by more than 60% and has increased productivity.
New equipment, such as electromagnetic stirrers, has been tested successfully on a melting 
furnace, generating a 10% reduction in energy consumption, while the recovery of heat from  
furnace exhausts has delivered a 30% improvement in plant boiler performance.A NEW GENERATION OF EQUIPMENT
ENERGY SAVING THANKS TO OXYFUEL BURNERS
In the highly effective process of oxyfuel 
combustion, no nitrogen ballast interferes with  
the combustion process and the heat transfer to the metal is direct, with no need to recover energy from the heated nitrogen gases.CH 4  +  20 2
CH 4  +  8N 2  +  20 2CO 2  +  2H 2O  +  HEAT
CO 2  +  2H 2O  +  8N 2+  HEATFuel
FuelOxygen
AirCO 2 / H 2O
CO 2 / H 2O / N210% 
decrease in energy 
consumption per 
processed unit by 2015 • 34 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 35 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
ENERGY  
MANAGEMENT 
Certified efficiency
Energy management is a key factor in achieving  
sustainable operations. Constellium has earned international 
certification in this field at several of its plants, and we expect  
more to follow in the years ahead.Opportunities for improvement are being 
identified and the assessment of whether 
water availability issues may arise in the 
future due to climate change is being con -
ducted through the use of the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
Water Tool. This showed that there currently 
are no water scarcity risks at our sites. 
SHARED EFFORTS
Constellium also participated actively in  
the 2012 World Water Day, in March. Thanks  
to shared efforts throughout the company, it posted encouraging results. 
SALMON NEAR ISSOIRE
Constellium’s Issoire plant is located on the river Allier, a tributary of the 
Loire, France. For a number of years, 
under the supervision of local author -
ities, industries have been strongly 
encouraged to control their discharge 
of wastewater into the river. The 
involvement of the Issoire plant started 
in 2009 and continues today. In 2012, studies and planning were conducted 
on the site to implement in 2013 a  
better wastewater management and 
risk control of discharge, notably in the 
case of a flood. These efforts have 
started to pay off with the recent return 
of the Atlantic salmon to the Loire-  
Allier basin, the last wild habitat of that species in France.WATER 
Under close supervision
Constellium closely monitors water consumption and regional water availability.  
All sites are tracked and monitored.
Variable Unit 2010 2011 2012
Ground water 1,000 m322,503 23,446 22,974
Surface water 1,000 m32,810 2,863 2,714
Water from public net 1,000 m3286 326 417
Ground water represents the bulk of Constellium’s consumption, most of which is used 
at Neuf-Brisach, located in a region of France which currently benefits from stable water 
availability. This water is used for cooling purposes and then treated and returned into 
the Rhine river. Monitoring of consumption and compliance with local environmental 
requirements are closely implemented.WATER CONSUMPTION“We got the certification  
ISO 50001 fairly quickly, because  
our starting point was the 
existing management system  
for 14000 and 18001 
certifications. Prioritizing energy 
goals and the use of our means 
is an important element, which 
we can improve with the 
certified management system.”
KAY SIEBERT
EHS AND INFRASTRUCTURE  
MANAGER SINGEN
to achieve continuous improvement in energy 
conservation. 
In 2012, Constellium’s industrial sites in  
Germany at Burg, Crailsheim, Landau and Singen were successfully certified to  
ISO 50001 standard, following an audit  
by two leading certification bodies, DEKRA 
and DQS. The company is looking to achieve 
certification for further European plants – 
Decin, Issoire, Neuf-Brisach, Chippis, Sierre 
and Steg – by 2015.As Constellium seeks to continue its past 
track record of continually reducing its  
specific energy consumption, the company is directing its efforts to earning ISO 50001 
certificates at its main manufacturing plants.
Designed to help organizations save money, 
conserve the earth’s resources and tackle 
climate change, the standard involves devel -
oping a complete system for using energy 
more efficiently. Far more than a simple 
benchmark, the approach enables a company 
CERTIFICATION
As well as the ISO 50001 target, cur -
rently all Constellium’s production  
and technology and innovation sites are certified ISO 14001 for their  
Environmental Management System 
and certified OHSAS 18001 for Safety  
Management Systems. ISO 50001
major European sites  
reaching certification  
by 2015• 36 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 37 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
REPACKAGED WOOD
Wood is an important part of the waste 
at the Issoire plant, France. It comes 
from transport pallets or crates and 
is often in good condition after use. 
Instead of destroying the wooden 
waste, the site’s main packaging  
supplier collects it every day and 
reuses it for new packaging. Since 
September 2012, 27 tons of wood have 
been recycled in this way.WASTE 
Reducing waste to landfill  
and improving efficiency  
to decrease scrap
The key to effective waste management is in efficient  
processes that reduce scrap and by ensuring that waste  
is disposed of in the best way possible.
REDUCING PROCESS SCRAP 
Scrap is an inevitable part of the aluminium 
transformation process. However, at a typ -
ical rolling-plant, the recovery of aluminium 
during processing from ingot to final product 
ranges from 50-80%, depending on the prod -
uct being manufactured. The losses are 
incurred at various stages during the course 
of transformation. For example, the original 
ingot undergoes scalping and cutting before 
rolling. During rolling, heads and ends of  
the plates are cut off. Additional losses are  2008100100.7
2009101.7
2010103.7
2011103.9
2012The graph shows the % improvement  
in process recovery at Neuf-Brisach  
(index 100 in 2008).RECOVERY AT 
NEUF-BRISACH
experienced at the finishing stages through  
further cutting due to head, tail and side 
imperfections, and the clamping of materi -
als during stretching. This material is known 
as recovery loss, and can be recycled inter -
nally. However, this recovery loss consumes 
resources for its production; energy, possi -
bly lubricants, as well as air and water,  
therefore generating waste. As part of its sustainability activities, Constellium has 
been taking measures at all sites to reduce 
the amount of this recovery loss during  
transformation.
Waste output is tracked on an annual basis, 
classified in line with the European Waste 
Catalogue (EWC), which includes information 
on treatment and disposal. Constellium has 
the objective to decrease waste going to 
landfill by 75% between 2010 and 2020. 
Besides reducing the generation of waste, 
it also means finding new ways of treatment 
such as recycling.
A DRIVEN TEAM 
Constellium will define a comprehensive 
waste strategy from 2013 onwards, with a 
dedicated team in charge of defining site 
specific objectives and sharing best prac -
tices across the company. The best process 
for dealing with each kind of waste will be 
identified and implemented to help reach 
the 2020 landfill reduction target.Landfill has actually increased between 2011 and 2012, a situation that Constellium is determined to rectify. Certain types of waste can only be 
treated through incineration or landfill. In 2012 some third-party incinera -
tors were operating over capacity, so more waste had to go to landfill.  
We are committed to working with our third-party partners to improve incin -
eration capacity and to increase recycling so as to be able to reach our 2020 
target, while continuing to ensure full disclosure of our waste output and treatment.TRACKING OF LANDFILL
RECYCLING SLAG
Salt slag is leftover after the re-melting process, for 
example of beverage cans. At Constellium, slag is treated 
by specialist companies. Very small pieces of aluminium 
are sorted and recycled. Salt is reused for recycling aluminium again, aluminium oxide is used for water 
treatment and the remains of the slag is used as road 
surfacing material. In 2012, 32,000 tons of salt slag was 
recycled.
75% 
total landfill  
reduction by 2020
12,087*
200810,753*
20098,103*
20108,748*
20119,766*
2012TARGET 
2,026*
2020
* Tons to LandfillProducts
As a leader in the aluminium value chain,  
Constellium plays an important role in shaping 
applications for this versatile, innovative material.  
This includes designing, manufacturing and selling 
products as well as planning for their future.  
The life cycle of Constellium’s products is crucial  
to sustainable development within the industry.  
It is based on meeting customers’ product needs  while also reducing the environmental impact for all.
To make significant progress in this area, Constellium 
has fixed specific targets: they are consistent with  
the company’s commitment to improve standards  
on an international level, measure the environmental 
impact of products throughout their life cycle and promote innovation.Sustainable innovation10%
of sales from innovative  
products by 2015All  
major new projects through  
Life Cycle Assessment75%
beverage can recycling 
rate in Europe  
by 2015 • 40 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 41 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
Aluminium recycling is central to Constel -
lium’s Sustainability Roadmap. It has an 
immediate effect on the carbon footprint  
of the industry while offering a welcome opportunity to preserve the earth’s natural 
resources. Beverage can recycling is of par -
ticular interest in this context: given the high 
production volumes – with over 280 billion 
cans being opened each year around the 
world – and the relatively short lifetime of 
the finished product. However, much still 
remains to be done in terms of collection 
and recycling.RECYCLING  
A longstanding commitment 
Aluminium scrap recycling is a key feature of Constellium’s commitment to sustainability.  
Up to 95% of the energy required for primary aluminium production can be saved by recycling.By endorsing the industry’s can recycling 
target for Europe of 75% by 2015, Constellium 
has demonstrated not only its willingness to improve the recovery of a valuable 
resource, it has also shown its commitment 
to support an environmentally friendly  
policy at a multinational level, alongside the 
European Aluminium Association (EAA),  
beverage can manufacturers and European 
Union institutions.By participating in the development  
and improvement of collection, sorting and recycling of beverage cans, Constellium  
has indirectly and directly contributed  
to promising results: the recycling rate of 
cans in Europe has increased to nearly 67% 
in 2010, versus 52% in 2005.CAN COLLECTION
Initiatives like “Every Can Counts”* in the 
United Kingdom address the particular chal -
lenge of collecting and recycling used bev -
erage cans in a variety of locations. Originally 
designed to encourage can recycling in the 
workplace, the program was finally broad -
ened to include consumers on the move, 
outside of their homes. Projects were imple -
mented in shopping centers, festival venues 
and beaches. The program helped collect  
51 million cans in the UK in 2011 and has now 
been extended to France, Austria, Hungary and Romania.
The facility at Neuf-Brisach, France, makes 
a large contribution to the recycling efforts of Constellium. It has been pioneering  
EUROPEAN BEVERAGE 
CAN RECYCLING RATES 
TABLE IN %Constellium
primary aluminium + scrapConstellium
melting/casting, sheet rolling,  
semi-finished productCan manufacturer  
and can filler
Consumption,  
collection for recycling
Used Beverage Cans are collected by local 
authorities, through national programsReturn to plant
for recyclingRetail distribution 
from superstores to local shops75%
beverage can recycling 
rate in Europe  
by 2015
CAN LIFE CYCLE, A CAN TO A CAN IN 60 DAYS
19974046
200252
200563
200867
2010*  Supported by the EAA and Beverage Can 
Makers Europe (BCME)• 42 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 43 •
How do you work with Constellium?
J. O.: Returpack is a Swedish company that 
collects and recycles cans and PET bottles for the beverage industry. We have been working with Constellium since 2008, and 
we send them UBCs for recycling. 
How is your initiative with Constellium 
sustainable?
J. O.: Collecting cans for recycling is, by defi -
nition, a sustainable activity. What we do with Constellium is to make sure that we 
collect and deliver the best possible quality 
of used cans. We strive to deliver the best quality of “can to can” recyclables, by min -
imizing moisture or organic materials in and 
around the cans, for instance.
How does this partnership operate  
in practice?
J. O.: We cooperate closely to see which areas 
of our shared activities can be improved. The 
quality of recyclables is a strong focus area: 
we have discussions with Constellium at least once a month to see how we can take 
it further and optimize our processes.
Which sustainable objectives  
are you currently pursuing? 
J. O.: For about a year now we’ve been exam -
ining how we could transport the material we deliver to Constellium with a reduced 
carbon footprint. Transport by train rather 
than truck is obviously more environment- 
friendly. We’re also working together on how 
to better handle the conditioning and trans -
port of recyclable cans material, for instance 
by using wooden pallets or not. We always focus on reducing freight weight and CO
2 
emissions: these are possibilities we explore 
together.
What are the next steps  
of this cooperation?
J. O.: We have a project to deliver to Constellium 
different types of aluminium scraps, other 
than cans, that we collect in Sweden. We’re 
currently working to find a compromise 
between material quality, environmental 
impact and business feasibility. All are An interview with  
Joakim Ofwerström, supply chain 
manager of Returpack,  
Sweden’s largest Used Beverage 
Containers (UBCs) collection  
and recycling network.
important. We’re also developing a mutual -
ly-profitable working relationship with the 
marketing teams of Constellium. They are 
learning from us how we audit our recycling 
activity, for example. Constellium is a good 
partner for us. They are business-orientated 
and our discussions are always open. It’s a partnership that works well.“Exploring 
possibilities 
together.”
JOAKIM OFWERSTRÖM
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGER OF RETURPACKIntroduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
recycling for some 20 years. With state-  
of-the-art equipment, it remains the largest 
recycling plant in Europe that combines 
stocking, remelting, rolling and finishing on 
a single, integrated site. The plant’s recycling 
unit currently recycles 45,000 metric tons 
of cans each year. Overall, if we include all 
external scrap coming from production pro -
cess or end of life, Constellium processes globally 300 kT of scrap around its various 
facilities.
AEROSPACE RECYCLING CHANNEL
The company is also pursuing specific  
industry initiatives, such as in aerospace, 
where a closed loop is secured with custom -
ers to collect scrap from their production  
processes. 
With clear objectives and a fully integrated 
process in aluminium production, recycling 
is a resource for Constellium as well as a sus -
tainable means to support the environment.
A MAJOR PLAYER  
IN RECYCLING
Returpack is a privately-owned com -
pany which aims to increase the  
recycling of metal cans and PET bot -
tles in Sweden. Returpack’s mission 
derives from the Swedish Environmen -
tal Protection Agency which has set 
the goal that 90% of all metal cans 
and PET bottles shall be recycled in 
Sweden.CANIBAL: THE CAN-EATING MACHINE
The CANIBAL machine collects in public or work areas coffee cups,  
Polyethylene Terephtalate (PET) bottles and beverage cans. It is part of 
smart logistic system which brings each of these used packagings to the 
right recycling facility. After collection, aluminium cans are separated 
from steel cans and are brought to Constellium’s Neuf-Brisach rolling 
plant. They are then treated by the recycling unit, the casthouse and 
rolling operations before starting again a life as new beverage cans.
• 44 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 45 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
A good illustration of the larger picture 
offered by Life Cycle Assessment is found 
in the wider use of aluminium in the auto -
motive industry, specifically for decreasing 
the weight of car bodies.
ECORANGE™ FOR LIGHTER BUSES
The EcoRange™ body structure system for 
bus builders combines standard structural 
components and bolted connections based 
on proven aluminium and composite design 
in order to develop, design and build light -
weight and cost-efficient bus and coach 
bodies. To date, the system has been used 
to build more than 35,000 buses. 
The EcoRange™ toolkit helps manufacturers 
reduce bus and coach body shell weight, 
hence lowering CO 2 emissions. Additionally, 
manufacturers achieve higher payloads and 
limit maintenance and repair costs, due to the durability and corrosion resistance of 
aluminium.ECO-DESIGN  
Built-in sustainability
As a Sustainability Roadmap target, all major new innovation  
projects will be designed with a Life Cycle Assessment of the 
product’s environmental impact. This holistic examination  
of the life cycle includes the assessment of raw-material production, 
manufacturing, distribution, use, disposal and end-of-life recycling, 
as well as all the intervening transportation and distribution stages 
that are either required or caused by the product’s existence. 
MATTER OF FACTS
The system is based on a lightweight car bumper beam and two inserted crash boxes that are designed to protect 
the integrity of the whole automobile structure. Co-developed, the inserted crashbox is a breakthrough in the 
way original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) approach CMS. The system plays a critical role in making auto -
mobiles safer for the driver, passengers and pedestrians in the event of an accident. On top of that, they save vehicle weight: between 2 to 3 kg for the strategically important area in the front of the car. Aluminium-based 
crash management technology has already achieved a 30% market share among automobile manufacturers  
in Europe. Business is also growing in the United States, where Constellium’s plant at Novi is expected to produce  
1.5 million CMS units in 2013, serving customers including BMW, Daimler, GM and Chrysler. We believe Novi’s 
proximity to Detroit, the home of the US auto industry, is hugely beneficial both for building customer relation -
ships and for the logistics of product delivery.CRASH MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CMS)
Superior design capacity has allowed Constellium to deliver to  
its automotive customers innovative crash management systems. Figures from the European 
Aluminium Association
Assuming the average driving  
distance of an average European car  
is 200,000 km over its life span.THE LIGHTWEIGHTPOTENTIAL
Aluminium is 40% lighter  than the 
components it can replace in a car. 
Each kilogram of aluminium  
reduces CO 2 emissions by 18kg   
during its lifespan.
...it accounts for a reduction  
of more than 40 million tons of CO 2  
over the lifespan of these vehicles.An optimized use of aluminium in a car 
today can reduce its weight by 140kg.  
This reduces CO 2 emissions  
by 2,520kg  during its use phase.
And since 16 million cars are  
produced each year in Europe...All  
major new projects 
through Life Cycle 
Assessment• 46 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 47 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
The ambitious target set by the company’s 
Sustainability Roadmap is to achieve 10%  
of its total sales from innovative products by 2015, versus 4.5% in 2012.
This objective is far more than a commercial 
ambition. It’s also a commitment to devel -
oping partnerships with customers to drive 
innovation and build on the success  
of Constellium’s R&D facilities at Voreppe  
and dedicated plant resources. 
VOREPPE: A CREATIVE POWERHOUSE 
Since 1967, the Voreppe Research Center 
(CRV) in France has been a driving force for 
Constellium in creativity and innovation for 
aluminium and its alloys. By working closely INNOVATION  
From R&D to market
To sustain its business in the long term, Constellium needs to develop innovative new  
products that will meet the future needs of its customers. At the same time, these products  
will need to be ever-more sustainable in terms of their environmental impact.
with customers, its achievements through -
out the years have helped make cars and 
planes lighter and safer, and the industry 
leaner. Packaging has also benefited from 
Voreppe’s expertise in aluminium. 
As the largest research center dedicated to 
aluminium in Western Europe, the CRV hosts 
200 senior-level specialists and is central 
to Constellium’s capacity for innovation, from 
research to market launch.Equipped with the latest scientific hardware, 
prototyping equipment and modelling  
technology, the CRV plays three key roles: 
to develop innovative, sustainable, value- 
added solutions for customers; to provide 
opportunities for future business growth; 
and to support technology networks by shar -
ing and implementing the best practices of 
in-house processes. In terms of organization, 
the CRV is structured around multidiscipli -
nary teams dedicated to three key markets: 
aerospace, automotive, rigid packaging and  
process technology. 
It also has teams specialized in core com -
petencies (metallurgy, surfaces & corrosion, 
numerical modelling & applications, and the 
casting & recycling process) and support (characterization, testing, prototyping and 
cast shop). 
As part of its mission, the CRV also offers a 
range of services to help external companies 
implement effective R&D programs. Whether 
it involves new alloys, new systems for pro -
cessing, assembling and forming materials or new applications, CRV’s knowledge and 
experience are a powerful resource. Custom -
ers are assisted in the design and production 
of cost-effective materials that are perfectly 
adapted to their needs, an initiative that often sparks new industrial trends.
THE CONSTELLIUM PRIZE
A senior scientist at École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL, Switzerland), Dr. Jean-Marie Drezet, of the Computational Materials 
Laboratory (LSMX), received the 2012 Constellium Prize. Attributed yearly 
in recognition of fundamental or applied scientific achievements in any 
field that can contribute to progress in the aluminium conversion indus -
try, the prize was awarded to Dr. Drezet at a ceremony held at the Institut 
de France in Paris.200
senior-level specialists  
work at the largest 
research center dedicated  
to aluminium in Western Europe10%
of sales from innovative 
products by 2015
• 48 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 49 •
Introduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
CUSTOMER 
SATISFACTION  
The heart  
of our businessEnsuring customer satisfaction is fundamen -
tal to making Constellium a sustainable 
company. Based on the measurement of 
customer satisfaction through externally 
conducted satisfaction surveys, we have 
identified key criteria which drive satisfac -
tion and on which our performance needs to 
improve. 
Although this has resulted in specific action 
plans by plant, we have recognized synergies 
between plants and implemented company- 
wide programs. The Lean Transformation 
program for instance, while focused on oper -
ation excellence, is also expected to deliver clear results on service and logistics perfor -
mance. We also believe that all our employees 
should be better trained and informed about 
our customers to understand their expecta -
tions and establish a link between their daily 
job and the final usage of the product.
ALL-STARS BRIEFINGS:  
FACING THE ISSUES
Launched in 2012 with briefings at our Issoire 
and Ravenswood plants, the All-Stars  
program brings our employees in direct  
contact with the issues facing our customers.
At Issoire, more than 1,000 employees,  
trainees and temporary staff were given  
a comprehensive presentation on the busi -
ness and regional jet markets by the sales 
team from Aerospace and Transportation. 
The team described in detail Constellium’s 
position in these markets, its contracts and 
the challenges it faces in terms of respond -
ing to customer requests, product quality and timely delivery. Success in these areas 
is the key to ensure customer satisfaction 
in a highly competitive environment. The 
team reported the success of Constellium’s 
AIRWARE® products, as well as developments 
realized in partnership with customers. Employees also viewed short videos that 
tracked the processing of our products at 
customers’ plants. Briefing programs will be 
extended to other Constellium plants during 
the course of 2013. AIRWARE®: GREATER EFFICIENCY  
IN AEROSPACELaunched in 2010 after a 10-year research 
and development program, AIRWARE
® is an 
example of Voreppe’s outstanding expertise. 
Manufactured at Voreppe and Issoire,  
AIRWARE® technology delivers a break -
through range of products designed for all 
parts of an aircraft structure (fuselage, wings 
and tail fins). The technology offers plane manufacturers three key properties: it can 
deliver up to 25% weight reduction, thus 
contributing to lower CO 2 emissions; its supe -
rior resistance to corrosion and fatigue 
extends heavy maintenance intervals; and 
its 100% recyclability makes a major contri -
bution to a sustainable aerospace industry. 
Constellium’s AIRWARE® technology delivers 
a 25% weight reduction when combined with 
advanced welding techniques and redesign 
of the airframe. 
FRICTION STIR WELDING
Friction Stir Welding (FSW) is a joining pro -
cess performed in metals without melting 
the material (solid-state process). The join -
ing happens when heat, generated by a  
stirring tool, is introduced between two parts 
of aluminium, making their edges softer. 
Mechanical pressure than plays its role and 
intermixes both parts without causing changes in their material properties. We 
believe FSW is a promising solution to solve 
challenges in the manufacturing of future 
aircraft: it makes possible joining speeds six 
times faster than automated riveting or  
60 times faster than manual riveting, with 
improved quality. Also FSW produces joints 
with more than twice the strength of a  
single-row riveted joint. Reducing time, part 
count and cost of production are great ben -
efits, and some examples can already be seen in the aerospace industry. The FSW 
process can save 0.7 kilograms per meter of 
junction line and could become an attractive 
option for fuselage and wing, especially for “rib one” in the fuselage-wing mating area. In some other industries, such as rail trans -
portation, FSW is already a key technology to save weight and cost.
SAVING WEIGHT IN BEVERAGE PACKAGING
It’s a similar story in the field of packaging, 
where Constellium’s expertise can deliver real 
product benefits. The company’s strength in 
Drawn Wall Ironing technology has led to a 50% 
weight saving – compared to impact extrusion 
– in the development of an aluminium bottle. 
The bottle, a shatterproof alternative to glass, 
provides greater safety in public areas, night -clubs and concert venues. Available in matt 
or reflective finishes, it also is re-sealable, a 
plus for consumers on the move.
DRIVING THE INNOVATION AGENDA
An Innovation Record is an idea backed by 
the technical result of a trial, simulation or 
experiment that has real business potential. 
Maintaining an effective innovation pipeline 
is a key objective for Constellium – and one 
that a new program called Innovation Records 
is designed to support.  
PARTNERSHIPS WITH UNIVERSITIES
Constellium’s strategy for innovation includes partnerships with about 
40 universities and international research laboratories, which further 
enhances its ability to deliver advanced solutions. The Swiss Federal 
Institute of Technology (EPFL), in Lausanne, and France’s ViaMéca 
mechanical engineering research cluster are two major partners of 
this kind.Keeping our customers satisfied is a key priority for Constellium.
• 50 • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012  • 51 •
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE 
Disclosure Index
Identifies where questions are answered for GRI 3.1
Key  Fully disclosed  not disclosed  partially disclosed
For full report, our GRI Appendix is available on our website: www.constellium.com
Indicator StatusLocation 
R/APage
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
1.1 R 4
1.2 R & A 9, 11
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
2.1 R Cover
2.2 R & A 6, 7, 8
2.3 R & A 5, 8
2.4 R & A 6, 7
2.5 R 6, 7
2.6 R & A 5
2.7 A
2.8 R & A 6, 7
2.9 A
2.10 A
REPORT PARAMETERS
3.1 A
3.2 A
3.3 A
3.4 A
3.5 R & A 14, 15
3.6 R & A 17, 22, 23, 41
3.7 A
3.8 A
3.9 A
3.10 A
3.11 A
3.12 R 50, 51
3.13 AIndicator StatusLocation 
R/APage
GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS
4.1 R & A 5
4.2 A
4.3 A
4.4 A
4.5 A
4.6 A
4.7 A
4.8 R & A 3, 22, 28
4.9 A
4.10 A
4.11 A
4.12 R & A 17, 18, 19
4.13 A
4.14 A
4.15 A
4.16 A
4.17 A
ECONOMIC
EC1 A
EC2 A
EC3 A
EC4 A
EC5 A
EC6 A
EC7 A
EC8 A
EC9 AIntroduction Governance People Operations Products GRI Index
Indicator StatusLocation 
R/APage
ENVIRONMENTAL
EN1 A
EN2 A
EN3 A
EN4 A
EN5 R & A 32, 33
EN6 R & A 45, 47, 48
EN7 A
EN8 R & A 35
EN9 R & A 35
EN10  A
EN11 A
EN12 A
EN13 A
EN14 A
EN15 A
EN16 A
EN17 A
EN18 R 32, 33, 34
EN19 A
EN20 A
EN21 A
EN22 R & A 37
EN23 A
EN24 A
EN25 A
EN26 R & A
EN27 A
EN28 A
EN29 A
EN30 A
LABOUR PRACTICES
L A1 A
LA2 A
LA3 A
LA4 A
LA5 A
LA6 A
LA7 R & A 22, 23
LA8 AIndicator StatusLocation 
R/APage
LA9 A
L A10 A
L A11 A
L A12 A
L A13 A
L A14 A
L A15 A
HUMAN RIGHTS
HR1 A
HR2 A
HR3 A
HR4 A
HR5 A
HR6 A
HR7 A
HR8 A
HR9  not material A
HR10 A
HR11 A
SOCIETY
SO1 R 29
SO2 A
SO3 R & A 28
S04  A
SO5 A
SO6 A
SO7 A
SO8 A
SO9 A
SO10 A
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
PR1 R 44, 45
PR2 A
PR3 A
PR4 A
PR5 R 49
PR6 A
PR7 A
PR8 A
PR9 AGRI Index: Location and status of disclosures R-Report & A-Appendix
32, 33, 34, 35, 36,  
37, 40, 41, 42, 43
Constellium Headquarters 
Tupolevlaan 41-61
1119 NW, Schiphol-RijkThe Netherlands
Phone: +31 20 654 9780 
Washington Plaza 
40-44, rue Washington 
75008 Paris France 
Phone: +33 1 73 01 46 00
Max Hoegger-Strasse 6
8048 Zurich
SwitzerlandPhone: +41 44 438 66 00
Website: www.constellium.com
Contact: sustainability@constellium.com
Coordination: Corporate Communications Department and Group Sustainability Council
Concept: All Contents / Vademecom — Design and production: All Contents 
Editorial: Trevor Huggins (English Service) and Denis Deschamps (DDC COM) 
Printing: Groupe A+ — This document is printed on a 100% recycled paper 
Photo credits: Airbus, A. Doyen, R. Harris, T. Lang, G. Uferas, B. Sonderegger,  
ATD Fourth World. Pages 17, 18, 43: All rights reserved. Illustrations: J. Gremaud
