2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
2
TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS,  
At Constellation Brands, our vision is to elevate life with 
every glass raised. This vision guides us in every aspect of 
our business—from the board room to the barrel room to 
the brewery ﬂ  oor. It also guides our commitment to the land, people, and communities where we live and work. 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has been woven into 
our company’s culture and core values from the start. Our dedication to CSR reﬂ  ects the principles and priorities of my father Marvin Sands, our company’s founder. His commitment was clear from the very beginning, and my brother Richard, our Chairman of the Board, and I have worked hard to continue in his footsteps.
As we have grown, this culture of doing business responsibly has been enhanced by 
the traditions of the people and companies that have become part of the Constellation family. From Robert and Margrit Mondavi’s contributions to the arts and cultural world in California to the long-standing support of The V Foundation for Cancer Research by our Beer Division, the examples of this common set of values and commitment to the community are many.
In fi  scal 2015, we had success across all three pillars of our CSR platform—
sustainability, giving back, and social responsibility. We received our highest score ever in our CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change submission, showing our commitment to transparency about our operational carbon footprint. The inaugural year of our Nourishing Neighbors initiative gave employees around the world the opportunity to take paid time off to volunteer to fi  ght hunger in their local communities. And we continued our ongoing support of important responsible drinking initiatives like the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility’s “Alcohol Awareness Month” and the Federal Trade Commission’s “We Don’t Serve Teens” campaign.
Our commitment to CSR is more than just doing the right thing. We fi  rmly believe that it 
is also the right decision for building successful brands and value for our shareholders. We believe our long-term success is directly tied to our ability to make a positive difference in our communities.
Finally, what I’m most proud of is that our CSR accomplishments last year—and in the 
70 years since our founding—have been driven by the heart and soul of our people. Employees at every level of our company made a positive difference, and they did it with 
passion and generosity, displaying the core values that unify us and drive our success. 
Constellation Brands (NYSE: STZ and STZ.B) is 
a leading international producer and marketer 
of beer, wine, and spirits with operations in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, New Zealand, and Italy. We are the number three beer company in the U.S. with high-end, iconic imported brands including Corona Extra, Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, Paciﬁ  co, and Victoria. We are also the world’s leader in premium wine, selling great brands that people love including Robert Mondavi, Clos du Bois, Kim Crawford, Rex Goliath, Mark West, Franciscan Estate, Rufﬁ  no, and Jackson-Triggs. Our premium spirits brands include SVEDKA Vodka and Black Velvet Canadian Whisky.
Constellation is based in Victor, NY, and believes 
that industry leadership involves a commitment to brand-building, our trade partners, the environment, our investors, and to consumers around the world who choose our products when celebrating big moments or enjoying quiet ones. 
310 0+
40
$6.03 B10 0
7 ,200+
40%+BRANDS IN 
OUR PORTFOLIO
FACILITIES APPROXIMATELY
FY15 NET SALES
FY15 INCREASE IN STOCK PRICE
ROB SANDS, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERTALENTED EMPLOYEESSALES IN APPROXIMATELYCOUNTRIES→
CDP LEADERSHIP INDEX //  Each year since 2009, we have 
submitted a climate change response to CDP (formerly the Carbon 
Disclosure Project), an independent not-for-profi  t organization that 
gives investors insight into companies’ greenhouse gas emissions, water usage, and strategies for managing climate change and water 
risk. In 2014, we were named to the CDP Leadership Index and were 
recognized as a leader among S&P 500 companies by CDP for the depth and quality of climate change data we publicly disclosed.
CALIFORNIA SUSTAINABLE WINEGROWING ALLIANCE  // For the 
fourth year in a row, all of our California wineries and vineyards were 
certifi  ed as part of the California Sustainable Winegrowing Alliance’s third-party Certifi  cation Program. 
WALMART SUSTAINABILITY INDEX RANKINGS  // Walmart asks 
thousands of its suppliers to address operations in relation to 
sustainability on an annual basis, with the goal of encouraging 
suppliers to better understand and manage their own supply chains. Last year, we were ranked #1 in both the beer and wine categories of 
the index.  
NEWSWEEK  GREEN RANKINGS // Each year, Newsweek  magazine 
ranks the world’s largest publicly traded companies based on corporate sustainability efforts and environmental impacts. On their 
2014 list, we ranked #53 out of 500 U.S. companies and #10 out of 41 
companies in the Consumer Staples sector. AS AN AGRICULTURE-BASED COMPANY, environmental 
issues are not only important to us, they are an essential 
component to our continued growth and success. Our aim 
is to look for ways to minimize our collective impact on the environment.
4Being smarter and more efﬁ  cient with our 
resource use is simply the right thing to do — 
for the environment and our bottom line. 
#1
RANKING
TOP 1 1%  OF U.S. COMPANIES5INTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY AWARD  // In FY15, Estancia Winery 
won our fi  rst internal Constellation Brands Sustainability Award for 
its collaborative, innovative approach to sustainability and resource 
conservation. Just a few examples of their efforts include the creation of a closed-loop system that uses glycol instead of water in their lab, 
which saves about 180,000 gallons of water per year, and the winery’s 
4,400 solar panels that produce enough power to cover more than 75% of the winery’s energy usage. The goals of our Sustainability 
Award are to increase visibility of our sustainability initiatives, 
increase employee participation in local sustainability programs, and encourage progress towards meeting our sustainability goals.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions
*Our waste and global greenhouse gas emissions data collection is completed in June each year, making FY14 our latest available data.
**Signiﬁ  cant increase in Liters of Product Sold and Metric Tonnes CO2e due to FY14 acquisition of Nava Brewery.
FY14* Diversion Rate:
94%
13,135 Metric 
Tonnes of Material Sent to Landﬁ  ll192,353 Metric Tonnes of Material Recycled/Composted/Diverted
WasteEnergy Generated 
On-Site in FY15
5,630,237 kWh
Solar
176
174
165
158
137
Carbon Intensity Metric Scope 1 and 2 
(Metric Tonnes C02e/Million Liters of Product Sold)FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13◊ FY14◊*
186,926 
Metric Tonnes 
C02e
1,075M 
Liters
Product Sold102,275 
Metric Tonnes 
C02e
648M 
Liters
Product Sold114,063 
Metric Tonnes 
C02e
690M 
Liters
Product Sold122,018 
Metric Tonnes 
C02e
694M 
Liters
Product Sold194,518** 
Metric Tonnes 
C02e
1,423M**
 Liters
Product Sold
◊ Updat es June 2016:
1. Due to a change in methodology for liters of product sold, the liters of product sold in FY14, which was previously reported as 1,556 million was updated to 1,423 million. We now use shipments and 
depletions as reported in our ﬁ  nancial statements. Previously, we used ﬁ  nished goods plus bulk. Due to this change, the calculation for tonnes of CO2e per million liters of product sold for FY14 is 137 tonnes of CO2e per million liters of product sold. We do not believe this is a material change, but have corrected this data to better ensure consistency of future year-over-year comparisons.
2. Constellation Brands has corrected its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for FY13 and FY14. For FY13, the previously reported total was 116,287 tCO2e whereas the corrected total is 122,018 tCO2e. For 
FY14, the previously reported total was 191,963 tCO2e whereas the corrected total is 194,518 tCO2e. We do not believe this is a material change but have corrected this data to better ensure consistency of future year-over-year comparisons.SUSTAINABILITY AT RUFFINO // Ruffi  no has received ISO 14001 certifi  cation for 
all of its sites, demonstrating its commitment to reducing environmental impacts 
and meeting stakeholder expectations of sustainability. In addition, 49% of Ruffi  no’s 
main suppliers of glass, caps, cork, labels, and cardboard have obtained either ISO 14001 or FSC certifi  cation. 
CHICAGO GREEN OFFICE CHALLENGE // In FY15, our Chicago offi  ce was awarded the 
Gold Level Business Award in the Chicago Green Offi  ce Challenge, placing 28th out of 250 
competing businesses. 
BIER MEMBERSHIP  // In fi  scal 2015, we joined The Beverage Industry Environmental 
Roundtable (BIER), a technical coalition of leading global beverage companies working 
together to advance environmental sustainability within the beverage sector. Being a member 
of BIER gives us the opportunity to work with our industry peers to affect change, focusing on water stewardship, energy effi  ciency, climate change, and sustainable agriculture.
SUSTAINABLE WINEGROWING NEW ZEALAND  // All of our company 
wineries and vineyards in New Zealand are members of Sustainable Winegrowing New Zealand, an industry group that provides environmental best practices and addresses consumer concerns about the environmental 
impacts of the products its members produce. 
6
Water Withdrawal 
Reductions
Water Intensity46%
39%
21%Dunnewood Winery 2013 to 2014
SIMI Winery 2013 to 2014
Franciscan Estate Winery 2013 to 2014→ → →
*Data represents Nava brewery only      **Only winery water withdrawals used, no vineyard irrigation water data included     †Only represents spirits facilities under our operational control
‡ “Beverage Industry Continues to Drive Improvement in Water and Energy Use.” Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable, 2015.
◊ Update June 2016: Constellation Brands previously reported a total of 42,323,123 liters of spirits produced in FY15, whereas the correct total is 15,003,440 liters. Consequently, the calculation 
for the FY15 water intensity of spirits of 9.32 should have been 26.24. We do not believe this is a material change given the size of our spirits production relative to our overall production, but have 
corrected this data to better ensure consistency of future year-over-year comparisons.
Water Intensity Metric:  3.49
Industry average: 3.65 ‡Water Intensity Metric:  4.54
Industry average: 4.09 ‡Water Intensity Metric:  26.24
Industry average: 37.8 ‡
W
ater withdrawals: 3,106,525,000L*W
ater withdrawals: 2,694,444,114L**W
ater withdrawals: 394,496,999L†
Water Intensity Metric = L of water withdrawals/L of product produced
NAVA BREWERY WATER STEWARDSHIP // Our brewery in 
Nava, Mexico is one of the largest and most automated in 
the world. It features highly effi  cient water and wastewater 
treatment systems, reuses about 30% of incoming water, and has a water effi  ciency rate of 3.49 liters of water per 
liter of product—one of the best in the industry.
FY15 
Beer Produced:
889,381,730 L*FY15 
Wine Produced:
594,000,000 LFY15 
Spirits Produced:
15,003,440 L ◊COMMUNITY GIVING  // Our corporate 
giving focuses on health care, education, 
and arts and culture. Our Giving Back 
team, comprised of employees from around the globe, ensures our efforts 
are guided by what is most important to 
employees and their local communities.
EMPLOYEE MATCH PROGRAM // 
Constellation matches employee 
contributions, dollar-for-dollar, to the 
eligible charity of their choice once per year, allowing us to contribute to causes 
our employees are most passionate 
about. In FY15, Employee Match Day resulted in more than $125,000 in 
donations. Since we instituted the match 
program in 2011 it has resulted in $1.5 million in total employee and company 
match donations. 
NOURISHING NEIGHBORS  // One of 
the causes that our employees are 
most passionate about is food insecurity. 
Our Nourishing Neighbors initiative, 
started in FY15, enhances the grassroots efforts of our employees through 
a unifi  ed, company-wide strategy. 
Employees are given paid time off to volunteer, and together with the company, 
donate food and money to help fi  ght 
hunger in our communities.  CONSTELLATION BRANDS AND ITS EMPLOYEES HAVE A LONG 
TRADITION of giving back to the communities where we live and work. 
Whether it’s participating in one of our global initiatives or a grassroots program at an individual facility, our employees truly bring to life our commitment to giving back. 
7Our corporate giving 
efforts are focused on three areas—Community Giving, 
the Employee Match 
Program, and Nourishing Neighbors . 
These global initiatives are enhanced by many efforts at the brand, division, and local facility level. 
$1.5M
TOTAL DONATED THROUGH OUR 
EMPLOYEE MATCH PROGRAM SINCE 2011
8THE V FOUNDATION FOR CANCER 
RESEARCH  // 2015’s total of $800,000 
surpassed the initial goal of $750,000, 
making the “Each Corona Gets Us Closer 
to a Cure” initiative the most successful 
since inception. 
Since we began partnering with The V Foundation ﬁ  ve years 
ago, the Constellation Brands Beer Division has generated more than $2 million  in donations during its “Find a Cure” 
campaigns, and over $5 million  in total support for The V. 
TOUR DE CURE  // 
In FY15, growing enthusiasm for 
supporting The American Diabetes 
Association led to our biggest team effort yet. Our “Smooth Finishers” team had 
a coast-to-coast U.S. showing of more 
than 160 riders across our Beer and Wine & Spirits divisions. Riders participated 
in events in upstate New York, Illinois, 
California, and Washington. We were the #4 fundraising team in the country, the #1 
fundraising team in Rochester, NY, and 
the largest corporate team in Washington. Employee fundraising and company 
donations totaled more than $120,000. 
RIDE TO CONQUER CANCER // In British 
Columbia, Canada, 22 employees raised $96,000 during this two-day cycling event. 
Sumac Ridge Estate Winery was also the 
offi  cial wine sponsor of the ride for the second year.
CORKS AGAINST CANCER // In FY15, 
our wine sales team worked together 
with retailers to raise $65,000 for the Rally Foundation for Childhood Cancer 
Research through our annual “Corks 
Against Cancer” program. We have donated more than $615,000 to Rally 
during our seven-year partnership.HABITAT FOR HUMANITY // Canada’s Wine Rack team partnered with Habitat 
for Humanity’s London, Ottawa, and Mississauga chapters to build three 
homes for local families in need, 
bringing in a total of more than $177,000. Employees in Ontario raised $100,000 to 
help build two homes.  SKYRISE CHALLENGE  // In FY15, 
Team Corona Light raised $150,700 at 
SkyRise Chicago, a 103-ﬂ  oor stair climb race up the Willis Tower to benefi  t the 
Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago—a 46% 
increase from 2013. 
9NAPA EARTHQUAKE  // Following the 
September 2014 earthquake, we made 
a $100,000 donation to the Napa Valley 
Vintners’ Community Disaster Relief Fund to provide support for immediate needs 
and short-term assistance, including 
temporary housing, food, water, and medical care. Employees also contributed 
to the cause.
WAR CHILD CANADA // With its annual 
Summer Concert Series and other events, Jackson-Triggs raised $28,000 in FY15 
for War Child Canada, an internationally 
recognized charity that works with children in war-affected communities. 
Jackson-Triggs has raised more than 
$227,000 for War Child Canada since 2010. 
NEW ZEALAND EMPLOYEE-DIRECTED 
GIVING  // Our New Zealand business 
takes a unique approach to community 
giving, with each employee getting a 
vote in directing to which organization 
the largest annual donation should be made. In FY15, the vote was for KidsCan 
to receive $30,000 for Orchards in 
Schools. This program supports schools and communities in economically 
disadvantaged areas by planting fruit 
trees on school grounds and teaching children how to care for them. Fruit from 
the trees is available to the school’s 
children and the wider community.WOODBRIDGE & NO KID HUNGRY //  
Woodbridge by Robert Mondavi donated 
$125,000 in FY 15 to Share Our Strength’s No 
Kid Hungry campaign, which works to end 
childhood hunger in the U.S.  Woodbridge 
engaged retailers and on-premise 
accounts to promote the cause through a limited-edition “Caring Cooler” with 100% 
of the proceeds going to No Kid Hungry.
QUEBEC BREAST CANCER 
FOUNDATION  // Through the sale of 
Rosé wines from a number of our brands, 
including Wallaroo Trail, Nicolas Laloux, and Caballero, we have donated $500,000 
to the Quebec Breast Cancer Foundation 
since 2004.
BEER DIVISION ANNUAL SUMMER 
SERVICE EVENT  // In July 2014, more than 
200 employees in Chicago contributed 
1,200 hours of work during our two-day Summer Service Initiative. The team 
beautifi  ed Shields Elementary School, 
resulting in a bright and comfortable space for Shields students to learn and grow.
CONSTELLATION BRANDS–MARVIN 
SANDS PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
(CMAC)  // Employee volunteers sell our 
brands at performances, with all “tips” 
being donated to local causes. Along 
with company matches, the program has 
raised more than $80,000.
8,000
100,000+ 2,500$2.68MPOUNDS OF NON-PERISHABLE 
FOOD ITEMS TO LOCAL FOOD BANKS 
AT 43 LOCATIONS IN CANADA, U.S., 
AND NEW ZEALAND
BOTTLES OF WINE, BEER, AND SPIRITS DONATED TO CHARITABLE EVENTSNOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 
SUPPORTED WORLDWIDEGIFTED FROM CONSTELLATION 
BRANDS AND THE SANDS FAMILY 
FOUNDATION*Through company and 
employee donations to Blessings in a Backpack (U.S. and Canada), KidsCan (New Zealand), and Banco de Alimentos Piedras Negras (Mexico), 
Constellation will provide 
meals every weekend for the entire 2015 school year to 700  children in 
our communities.
*Total includes only donations made through our corporate community giving program and by the Sands Family 
Foundation, not donations made by our divisions or brands.
10
GLOBAL MARKETING CODE // 
We are proud of our long-standing 
commitment to promoting, advertising, 
and marketing our products using the industry’s best practices. Our Global 
Code of Responsible Practices for 
Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing provides the fundamental 
framework for responsible brand 
advertising and marketing that ensures our messages are directed at legal, 
drinking-age consumers. 
TIPS  // We offer “TIPS for the Workplace,” 
a skills-based training program that 
helps servers, sellers, and consumers of 
alcohol know how to prevent intoxication, 
drunk driving, and underage drinking. SAFE RIDE HOME PROGRAM // While Constellation always encourages 
employees to enjoy our products 
responsibly, we also want to make sure they get home safely regardless of the 
situation. The Safe Ride Home program 
reimburses taxi or public transportation fare for Constellation Brands employees 
for personal, non-company use. AS A BEVERAGE ALCOHOL INDUSTRY LEADER, we take our commitment 
to promoting safe and responsible drinking very seriously. We are involved 
in a number of initiatives that address the societal impact of the misuse 
of beverage alcohol, and we sponsor and support many organizations that promote responsible drinking.
Compliance with the 
Global Marketing Code is mandatory across Constellation companies and others involved with the promotion of our brands, and it must be 
adhered to as part of the 
approval process for all advertising and marketing materials.
Please drink responsibly. Corona Extra® Beer. Imported by Crown Imports, Chicago, IL.11
FOUNDATION FOR ADVANCING ALCOHOL 
RESPONSIBILITY (FAAR) // As a FAAR member, 
we help in the fi  ght to eliminate drunk driving and underage drinking and to promote responsible 
decision-making regarding beverage alcohol. Some of FAAR’s initiatives include 
Alcohol Responsibility Month in April, which provides tools and resources to help start conversations with loved ones about alcohol responsibility, and the support of research in 
counter-measures that will ultimately keep drunk drivers off of the road.
WE DON’T SERVE TEENS // This U.S. national 
campaign to prevent underage drinking is coordinated by the Federal Trade Commission 
and supported by a coalition of public and private 
organizations, including the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, the Foundation for Advancing 
Alcohol Responsibility, Wine and Spirits Wholesalers 
of America, and the Beer Institute. We support the program through placement of point-
of-sale materials, out-of-home advertising, public service announcements, and a number 
of other marketing, public relations, and online activities. In FY15 we supported the 
campaign in a number of markets, including Chicago, IL; San Antonio, TX; Rochester, NY; Washington, D.C.; and Springfi  eld, IL.
Constellation Brands, Inc.  
207 High Point Drive, Building 100
Victor, New York 14564  
1.888.724.2169
www.cbrands.com
Please enjoy our products responsibly. © 2016 Constellation Brands Inc., Victor, NYAbout this Report    This report highlights many of the key initiatives of our Corporate Social Responsibility program during our 2015 fiscal year 
(March 1, 2014 through February 28, 2015). It is intended to provide an overview of our commitment to our CSR program for our investors, customers, employees, and other stakeholder groups. Updates were made to this report in June 2016.
More information on our CSR efforts can be found on our CSR website, www.constellationcsr.com, and on our corporate website, www.cbrands.com. 
More detailed information about the risks, management, and performance relating to our greenhouse gas emissions and water use is available to the public through our submission to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). 
More information on Constellation Brands, Inc. can be found on www.cbrands.com and in our FY15 Annual Report to Stockholders. 
