2021 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORTCOMMITTED TO BETTERING 
OURSELVES AND OUR COMMUNITIES
2 34
“At Constellation, we strive to foster an inclusive culture that is characterized by 
diversity in background and thought that reflects our consumers and communities. 
While this has been a priority for years, the events of 2020 showed that we, like 
many others, have a long way to go in achieving this goal. It’s more than the 
right thing to do; it’s also good business. We remain committed to this goal and 
focused on actions that drive meaningful and positive change.”
— Mike McGrew, Chief Communications, CSR and Diversity Officer
4 5Embracing Diversity 
for an Inclusive 
Tomorrow
The events of 2020—from the killing of George Floyd 
while in police custody, to the disproportionate effect the 
pandemic has had on Black and Brown communities, to 
Asian Americans being unfairly attacked and scapegoated 
as the cause of the virus—have powerfully underscored 
a need for change. We must do more to break the long 
pattern of systemic racism, bigotry, and inequality in 
our country. This critical moment must fuel substantive 
and lasting change, and all of us—from companies to 
individuals—have a responsibility in creating that change. 
6
6 7With the understanding that it starts with us, 
Constellation continues its journey to better 
reflect the diverse consumers and communities 
we serve. We know we have work to do, and we 
know that together, and only together, we can 
make a meaningful difference. Transparency is 
an important part of driving change, so we are 
sharing our U.S. workforce demographics here, 
and will continue to share our diversity progress 
in the years ahead. To drive change and enhance 
diverse representation among our U.S. salaried 
population, we are emphasizing closing our 
biggest representation gaps among Black/African 
American, Female, and Latinx/Hispanic employees.
Monitoring human capital metrics is a critical 
component to ensuring we are executing on our 
strategy and making progress against our Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion objectives. We measure 
gender and racial representation to understand 
diversity at various levels across the organization 
and assess progress over time to drive continuous 
improvement. We also assess metrics throughout 
the human resource lifecycle to identify potential 
bias and barriers in our processes, including 
talent acquisition, turnover, engagement scores, or 
participation in Business Resource Group events.To achieve the change we feel is necessary, we accelerated diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I) initiatives already in place prior to 2020 
and identified new opportunities to foster greater equity. U.S. workforce demographic(1) information is as follows:
Board
Executi ve
Vice Pr esident
Director
All Salaried EmployeesFemale Male WhiteLatinx/
Hispani cBlack/
African 
American AsianOther 
People Of  
Color
40%
30%
38%
34%
41%60%
70%
62%
66%
59%70%
73%
84%
87%
80%20%
11%
7%
7%
11%10%
2%
2%
2%
2%0%
9%
7%
3%
5%0%
5%
1%
1%
1%
(1) Diversity data is as of February 28, 202 1 and is based on self-disclosed employee information. Board data includes independent, non-management board members (U.S. and international). Executive data includes executive officers and senior vice presidents. Director is the next management level with 
supervisory authority below vice president. While we present female and male, we acknowledge that this is not fully encompassing of all gender identities. Other people of color includes two or more races, American Indian or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or categories left blank. 
Numbers may not sum due to rounding. 
8 9Supporting Equal 
Treatment to Drive 
Equal Justice
Constellation has established a multi-year partnership with 
the Equal Justice Initiative (EJI), an organization committed 
to challenging racial and economic injustice, advocating 
for equal treatment in the criminal justice system, and 
protecting basic human rights for the most vulnerable 
in American society. We have contributed $1 million to 
further EJI’s mission and to support training opportunities 
for Constellation leadership.  
10 11A Focus on 
Minority Founders
To help balance a U.S. venture capital ecosystem that we 
believe is starkly homogeneous, Constellation Brands 
Ventures (CBV) has committed to invest $100 million in 
Black and minority-owned businesses in the beverage 
alcohol space and adjacent categories by 2030 through our 
Focus on Minority Founders program. Beyond the funding, 
the Focus on Minority Founders initiative will support the 
growth and development of Black and minority-owned 
businesses by providing sales, marketing, operations, and 
finance expertise through the CBV team and Constellation’s 
many subject matter experts.
12 1314
“I’ve always been tremendously proud of our team at Constellation. But this year in 
particular, our employees truly inspired us in how they led by example and truly lived 
our values. In a year marked by health and social issues, our team members used their 
voices and stood up for equity, advocated for change, and supported local communities 
in need. For these reasons and more, I am proud to work here and am excited to keep 
doing more to promote diversity, equity, and inclusion.”
— Tom Kane, Chief Human Resources Officer
14 15Business Resource Groups Empower 
Employees & Advance Our Business
Finding community has never been more important. That comes to life at Constellation through a growing network 
of Business Resource Groups. These communities advance our DE&I goals; connect and empower employees with 
common goals, interests, and objectives; create business impact; and help attract a diverse employee base that 
reflects the communities where we live and do business. 
16 17Stellar Pride AASCEND
“2020 was a challenging year for the world but 
exceptionally challenging for BIPOC in America. It’s 
such a pleasure to know that the organization values all 
and is invested in providing access to those that are most 
underrepresented. The engagement that has been shown 
by the organization in all of the AASCEND events from 
educational panel discussions to hip hop and wine tasting 
highlights the growing culture of inclusivity at CBI.”(African Americans Strengthening Constellation’s Engagement, 
Networking, & Development)(Supporting our LGBTQ Community)
“During the course of a global pandemic, the Stellar Pride 
BRG worked hard to concentrate its efforts to remain 
connected to its members through a variety of engaging and 
creative virtual solutions. We successfully reimagined what 
was possible and leveraged technology to provide events 
and programs that allowed our members to come to work as 
their authentic complete selves.” 
Jamie Attoma, Talent 
Development Partner
Kerri Joy, Director, Sales Learning 
& Development, Beer Division
18 1920
¡SALUD! WISE
“The work we do with the BRGs isn’t part of our ‘day’ 
jobs—we do it because we care, because we want to 
make Constellation the best place to work and because 
we believe that change is possible. I find the more I put in, 
the more I get out, and working with WISE is part of what 
helps fill my cup.”  “I’m honored to be part of ¡SALUD! and since launching this 
BRG, I have had the opportunity to learn more about the 
company, share my work experience and knowledge, as 
well as interact with employees in other departments. Most 
recently through ¡SALUD!, I have supported and consulted 
with the Innovation and Brand teams on a number of 
product launches and research projects through quick pulse 
checks, organized focus groups, and surveys to help our 
company be consumer-driven.”
(Supporting and Attracting Latinos United for Diversity & Development) (Win. Inspire. Support. Elevate.)
Corinn McCarthy Bergeron, 
Manager of Commercial Planning
Gerardo Talamantes, Sr. Market 
Development Manager, Beer Sales
20 21Investing in a Better 
Tomorrow
Looking ahead keeps us grounded in our purpose today—from anticipating 
which products our customers will reach for next, to how we can improve 
the lives and experiences of our employees and those in the communities 
we proudly serve. We know that our actions today will build a stronger 
tomorrow, and therefore, for more than 75 years we have grounded our 
social responsibility efforts in our core values and the guiding belief that 
you can do good business and do good.1Being a champion for the professional 
development and advancement of women
2Serving as a catalyst for economic 
development and prosperity for 
disadvantaged communities
3Being a culture carrier of responsible 
consumption within our industry
4Serving as a model for responsible water 
stewardship, while continuing to make progress 
in advancing sustainability efforts around 
emissions, energy, and waste managementOur overall Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy 
focuses on four key areas and aligns with our business goals 
and stakeholder interests, reflects our company values, and 
directly addresses pressing societal needs. Those areas are:
22 23Championing the Professional 
Development and Advancement 
of Women
Although women make up more than half of the U.S. population, we believe they remain 
underrepresented in the beverage alcohol industry and other segments of the business 
community. We are committed to righting this imbalance by providing resources to support 
the advancement of women within the company, our communities, and our industry.
24 25The Women’s Leadership Development Program (WLDP) 
is an advanced program for senior women leaders at 
Constellation. The WLDP participants attend Linkage’s  
Women in Leadership Institute as a kick-off to a series of  
development activities, such as coaching, mentorship, 
and more. To date, more than one third of the program 
graduates have advanced or increased their role at 
Constellation. In alignment with WLDP , in 2020, we 
launched the Advancing Women Leaders Academy 
to equip women leaders in entry and mid-level career 
positions with actionable steps and practices to hone their 
development and overcome barriers to advancement.Enabling Future Leaders 
26 27Paving a Path to Financial 
Security with Dress for Success
Beyond our walls, we strive to support the advancement 
of women in our communities. Since the onset of the 
pandemic, nearly 2 million women have left the labor 
force.(1) Many have lost their jobs or needed to leave the 
workforce to care for children. Services such as those 
provided by Dress for Success—an organization whose 
mission is to empower women to achieve economic 
independence—are needed more than ever. We are proud 
to be a corporate Dress for Success (DFS) partner, and 
provide support to a number of local affiliates through 
ongoing activations by WISE (Win. Inspire. Support. 
Elevate.), our Business Resource Group (BRG) that offers 
networking and development opportunities for women 
of all levels at Constellation. WISE partnered with another 
of our BRGs—¡SALUD!, which stands for Supporting and 
Attracting Latinos United for Diversity & Development—in 
a collaboration with DFS chapters in San Francisco and 
Rochester, N.Y., to conduct a Spanish-language workshop 
focused on virtual job interview tips to help bring women 
into, or back to, the workforce.  
(1) Source: National Women’s Law Center
28 29“When Dress for Success Worldwide and its affiliates pivoted to virtual services, 
Constellation Brands’ support and collaboration was right there every step of the way 
through their dedication to providing programming and mentoring to women who 
have had to overcome the challenges brought on by COVID-1 9. Dress for Success and 
Constellation share similar values, and we appreciate the work that each volunteer has 
done in their community. We are excited about the prospects of our collaboration.” 
— Jenny Lai, VP Development, Dress for Success Worldwide
30 31With the firm belief that our industry improves with greater 
representation of women, we have made a commitment to 
invest $100 million in female-led companies through 2028, 
through our Constellation Brands Ventures Focus on Female 
Founders initiative. For more information, see 
Focus on Female Founders.Lifting the Industry by Uplifting Female Founders
Photo: 
Austin Cocktails founders 
Kelly Gasink and Jill Burns
32 33Growing with Women of the Vine and Spirits
At Constellation, we are a Platinum sponsor of Women of 
the Vine and Spirits (WOTVS), a worldwide organization 
dedicated to “pushing the wine, beer, and spirits industry 
toward a more diverse, equitable, and inclusive era 
that empowers all to succeed”—because we share that 
same dedication. Constellation’s executives are regular 
contributors on WOTVS panels, live chats, and symposiums. 
34 35Serving as a Catalyst for Economic 
Development and Prosperity for 
Disadvantaged Communities
Constellation Brands has long been committed to addressing the needs of disadvantaged communities  
in areas where we live and work, including Hispanic/Latinx and African American/Black communities.  
The Hispanic/Latinx population is the fastest growing demographic in the U.S.,(1) and our authentic Mexican 
beer brands have been an integral part of special moments with family and friends for members of this 
community for many years. During the economic downturn brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic in  
2020, Hispanic/Latinx and African American/Black communities have been disproportionately impacted,  
and we accelerated our efforts to help offset it. 
(1) U.S. Census Bureau 
36 37To determine the best organization to work 
with to achieve our goals, we tapped into 
our ¡SALUD! BRG and Consumer Insights 
group. With the insight that homeownership 
is a key indicator toward financial mobility, 
the ¡SALUD! team helped to identify financial 
literacy and housing empowerment as areas 
of support that could truly make long-term 
impact in the economic development and 
prosperity of the Hispanic/Latinx community, 
and played a role in vetting organizations that 
could best deliver impact in these areas. As a 
result, Constellation, in partnership with our 
Modelo brand, made a $500,000 contribution 
to UnidosUS, the nation’s largest Hispanic civil 
rights and advocacy organization, focused on 
providing resources to strengthen Hispanic 
families’ financial security through financial 
literacy and homeownership programs. Partnering in Economic 
Development with UnidosUS
Photo: Janet Murguía,  
President and CEO of UnidosUS
38 39Raising Minority Representation Through 
the Clear Vision Impact Fund
We understand that minority-owned businesses are 
underrepresented in our industry, and many others, as 
pervasive and systemic barriers have existed for these 
companies and their leaders for far too long. That led to our 
commitment to invest $10 million in the Clear Vision Impact 
Fund, LP , which focuses on making investments in minority-
owned businesses, with an emphasis on African American/
Black- and Latinx-owned businesses. For more information, 
see Embracing Diversity for an Inclusive Tomorrow .  
40 41Since the onset of the COVID-19 crisis, Black-owned 
restaurants, disproportionately affected, needed our 
support. That is why during National Black Business Month 
in August, Constellation proudly partnered with the team 
behind The Great American Takeout and sponsored the 
Employees in Action initiative. Constellation Brands called 
on its employees and our business networks of retailers, 
distributors, and vendors to participate by ordering meals—
plus drinks from the Constellation Brands portfolio—from 
Black-owned restaurants and bars. With the backing of 
distributors like Republic National Distributing Company 
and Southern Glazer Wine & Spirits, Focus on Female 
Founders partners Austin Cocktails, and businesses big 
and small, more than 30,000 people were empowered to 
#SupportBlackOwnedRestaurants.Supporting Black-Owned Restaurants:  
30,000 Called to Action
42 43Investing in the Recovery of the  
Restaurant Industry
Many of our retailers, particularly local restaurants, were 
hit hard by the effects of the pandemic. To support the 
industry’s rebuilding efforts, in March 2020 Constellation 
and several of our flagship brands contributed more 
than $1 million to the National Restaurant Association 
Educational Foundation’s (NRAEF) Restaurant Employee 
Relief Fund, which has raised more than $21.5 million and 
helped more than 43,000 restaurant workers financially 
affected by the pandemic. As the crisis stretched on, 
we again partnered with a number of our iconic beer, 
wine, and spirits brands in a collective commitment of 
$1.75 million to support the NRAEF and the launch of 
their Restaurants Advance campaign. The commitment 
represents a multi-year collaboration with the NRAEF to 
rebuild the restaurant industry and create opportunities for 
restaurant workers from all backgrounds.
44 45Fostering a Culture of Responsible 
Consumption Within Our Company 
and Industry
Bringing great brands to our customers, and promoting safe and responsible enjoyment of 
them, is foundational to who we are as a company—within our communities and as a leader 
in the beverage alcohol industry. 
46 47We are evolving our approach to responsible 
consumption by embracing a contemporary 
mindset that aligns with consumer betterment 
trends. With the understanding that it starts with us, 
we’ve partnered with our Wellness and Brand teams 
to create engaging opportunities for employees 
to learn more about responsible consumption and 
how our portfolio of brands can play a role. We 
share resources with the understanding that with 
deeper knowledge, we will further a culture inspired 
by shared values and responsible consumption in 
support of a more balanced lifestyle.
This concept is well represented in our product 
portfolio as many additions have been inspired by 
rising consumer interest in moderation, individual 
betterment, and well-being. As consumers reach 
for brands with lower calories and lower alcohol, 
how they are thinking about responsible drinking 
is evolving beyond knowing alcohol limits and 
warning against drunk driving; they are increasingly 
embracing a more balanced approach to alcohol 
consumption as part of a lifestyle choice. A Contemporary Mindset of 
Responsible Consumption
48 49Joining Forces to Keep Our Fans and 
Communities Safe
In our communities, we promote responsible consumption through 
established partnerships, like our membership in Techniques for 
Effective Alcohol Management (TEAM) Coalition, which promotes 
responsible drinking and positive fan behavior through employee 
training, fan education and alcohol service policy creation at 
sports and entertainment facilities. Through TEAM, we work with 
concessionaires, who train their employees to support responsible 
consumption at events and venues where our brands are enjoyed. 
TEAM also works to bring alcohol training to collegiate sports 
management degree programs to educate professors and 
students (future facility managers) and prevent underage access 
to alcohol. We also partner with WRAP , the Washington Regional 
Alcohol Program—which is a coalition of diverse interests using 
effective education, innovative programs and targeted advocacy to 
end alcohol-impaired driving and underage drinking in the greater 
Washington area—on SoberRide®, which provides codes for Lyft 
rides around the holidays, including Cinco de Mayo. 
50 51Our advocacy for responsible consumption of alcohol spans our 
internal teams, from Public Affairs to Government Relations, who work 
in partnership with government counterparts to advance responsible 
alcohol policy. It also comes to life in our memberships in the Beer 
Institute, where we hold a seat on the Board of Directors and are part of 
the Brewers’ Voluntary Disclosure Initiative that provides consumers key 
information so adults of legal drinking age can be better informed about 
the alcohol beverages they choose to enjoy; the Wine Institute, where 
we hold two at-large seats on the organization’s Board of Directors and 
support the organization’s ongoing social responsibility program that 
promotes moderate consumption; and The Distilled Spirits Council of the 
United States (DISCUS), where one of our top executives serves as Vice 
Chair, and we support the organization’s promotion of the moderate and 
responsible consumption of alcohol and anti-drunk driving measures. Industry leadership also means that we rigorously ensure our 
messages are directed at legal, drinking-age consumers. As a 
fundamental framework, we have developed our Global Code 
of Responsible Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and 
Marketing, which must be adhered to as part of the approval process 
for all advertising and marketing materials. This comprehensive code 
includes firm guidance on media placements and events used for 
marketing, product placements, and more.Sticking to Our Code and Working with Our 
Industry Associations
52 53Modeling Responsible 
Water Stewardship 
for Our Industry 
We recognize the human right to water and sanitation, and 
given the nature of our business, water is an essential resource. 
Therefore, Constellation has made water conservation and 
stewardship the focus of our sustainability initiatives. To 
maximize our impact on the industry and communities in 
which we operate, we must join forces locally with business 
and community relationships and work together. For us, this 
means increasing site water efficiency, maintaining source 
availability and quality, using our partnerships to advance 
conservation efforts, and always reporting transparently. 
We support United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goal 12 by promoting sustainable management and 
efficient use of natural resources.
We support United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goal 6 by focusing on longer-term targets, including 
reducing pollution to improve water quality, increasing 
efficient use of water and ensuring sustainable 
withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address 
water scarcity, and supporting and strengthening the 
participation of local communities in improving water 
and sanitation management. 
We support United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goal 14 by preventing and significantly reducing 
marine pollution through our Pacifico Preserves and 
Corona’s Protect Our Beaches initiatives. 
We support United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goal 15 through our Lodi Rules certification and our 
Fish Friendly Farming certification by restoring fish 
and wildlife habitat and improving water quality in 
Napa and Sonoma counties in California.
Learn More: https://sdgs.un.org/goals
54 55Conservation Efforts Across Our Facilities
Water is an essential resource for our industry and our communities, and it’s important that we all work together 
in contributing to conservation efforts. There are exciting and effective water stewardship projects happening 
across our manufacturing facilities and vineyards, which also partner with local groups to enhance our efforts in 
protecting water resources in the communities where we operate.      
56 57Our breweries in Mexico continue to invest in technology 
that drives the efficient use and recycling of water. For 
example, in our Obregon brewery, equipment was updated 
in the Water Recovery Plant, two new reverse osmosis 
units were installed for the treatment of well water, major 
maintenance was carried out at the Wastewater Treatment 
Plant, and other changes were made to lower water 
consumption and increase operational efficiency. That is 
reflected in the reduced ratio of water consumption per 
hectoliter of beer produced from fiscal 2017 through fiscal 
2020 in both our Obregon brewery (18% reduction) and the 
Nava brewery (13% reduction).
Our winery and vineyard operation teams also have 
implemented new processes. For example, our Napa 
Valley vineyards use new technologies to maximize water 
conservation and to ensure that vines only receive what 
they need, when they need it. This includes minimizing 
overwatering, excess run off, erosion, and unnecessary 
depletion of source supply, which we achieve through 
instrumentation such as soil monitoring devices and 
weather stations. These ongoing improvements in water 
management over time have led to the realization of 
significant water reductions across the Napa Valley vineyard 
complex. Compared to fiscal 2018, the collective Napa Valley 
vineyards used 51% less water than three years ago. This 
represents over 100 million gallons of water.Water Efficiency—A Continuous 
Improvement Approach 
58 59The Obregon brewery’s wastewater treatment plant 
treats 100% of water from industrial and sanitary 
drainage. This avoids pollution to the soil and aquifer, 
and is aligned directly to our commitment to comply 
with local water legislation. In addition, to improve water 
quality in the Obregon area, we are working closely with 
Pronatura Noreste on a 10-year project that will help 
restore the Bravo Conchos basin in the Serranía del 
Burro. We have also committed to create three dams 
along the Yaqui Valley canal that will improve water 
management efficiency and help recover—approximately 
25 million cubic meters of water annually—volumes of 
water that play an important role in the sustainability of 
the region.
The Napa Valley vineyards have collaborated with 
local partners, including Fish Friendly Farming, 
Napa County , and Napa County Flood Control and 
Water Conservation District on the Napa Valley River 
Restoration Project. The project, almost 15 years in the 
making, has included extensive biological, geotechnical, 
cultural, and geomorphic studies, and has dramatically 
improved water quality by reducing erosion and 
sediment in the river. This has had a positive impact on 
the Chinook Salmon population that is native to the river 
and considered an endangered species.
60 61Constellation Brands is a member of the Beverage Industry 
Environmental Roundtable (BIER), a technical coalition of 
leading global beverage companies working together to 
advance environmental sustainability within the beverage 
sector. Through BIER, we work with other members to 
monitor and inform the development of climate change 
policy initiatives and work to ensure policy compliance 
through common guidance for calculating, tracking, and 
reporting sustainability impacts such as water security within 
the beverage sector. Our participation enables us to provide 
our industry’s unique perspective on water stewardship 
and climate change issues, while working collaboratively to 
develop best practices and industry guidance.Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable
62 63Advancing Sustainability Efforts 
Beyond Our Focus on Water Stewardship
Being in an agriculture-based industry, water is a predominant resource, but Constellation is also deeply 
committed to implementing sustainability efforts across our entire business. More broadly, that means grounding 
our commitment to also promoting energy efficiency,  waste minimization, pollution prevention, recycling, 
resource conservation, and more.
64 65We support United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goal 2 by partnering with key raw material suppliers to 
develop and implement sustainable farming/agriculture 
initiatives to reduce GHG emissions.
We support United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goal 7 by decreasing our dependence on non-renewable 
energy sources whenever possible, reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions and energy consumption.
We support United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goal 12 by promoting sustainable management and 
efficient use of natural resources.
As part of our commitment to protect the environment and the 
communities where we operate, we are decreasing our dependence 
on non-renewable energy sources whenever possible and reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption. We continuously 
monitor our carbon footprint and have worked to effectively reduce 
emissions per liter of product produced. 
To help us track progress and understand continued opportunities, we track 
four major Greenhouse Gases (GHGs): carbon dioxide (CO2), methane 
(CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) in accordance 
with the international guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). We express our carbon 
footprint in terms of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e).Doing Our Part to 
Limit Global Warming 
Additionally, we support goals set by well-established entities such as 
the United Nations to guide our sustainability efforts and ensure we are 
keeping up with the latest priorities.
Learn More: https://sdgs.un.org/goalsOur vineyards actively work to reduce their footprint every day. Our Ruffino 
Group in Italy, which for the second straight year received our Environmental 
Sustainability Award,  installed two solar panel systems in the Tuscan estates 
of Gretole and La Solatia. Initial estimates show that the solar panels will 
supply 75% of the electric energy in La Solatia estates. The Pontassieve  
winery also received certification from A2A Energia for its use of renewable 
energy sources.
As part of our ongoing efforts to reduce GHGs and to comply with changing 
environmental standards, our Gonzales Winery invested in a refrigeration 
system that is more energy efficient and does not deplete the ozone layer. 
With the change, the system will use ammonia refrigerant, which requires 
less electricity and is safer for the environment than the previously used R-22 
refrigerant; ammonia has an Ozone Depletion Potential (ODP) rating of 0 and 
a Global Warming Potential (GWP) rating of 0.
66 67Commitment to Reducing Waste  
Across the company, we engage in a variety of activities 
to reduce waste, including composting, recycling, and 
diverting materials. Waste is a part of any production 
process, and we pride ourselves on creatively innovating 
ways to reduce environmental impacts from our waste 
generation, transportation, and disposition at our sites 
and in the countries and communities where we operate. 
Our Nava and Obregon breweries in Mexico each 
diverted 99% of their waste produced in fiscal 2020 
and our Ruffino Group applies the principle of Continuous 
Improvement to their waste management by reviewing 
their contracts with waste management companies 
annually. This exercise helps uncover further recycling 
opportunities and identify new ways to engage with dry 
goods suppliers (glass, corks, labels and cardboard) on 
waste reduction initiatives.
68 69In the last two years, over 640,000 tons of 
by-products generated during production 
at Nava have been used by others in the 
region as feed for cattle, sheep, and pigs. 
The brewery also used alcohol residue 
generated during production of seltzers 
to make disinfectant gel that helped keep 
employees safe during the pandemic. The 
sanitizer was provided to more than 4,000 
team members at Nava, Obregon, and the 
Mexico City office.  
70 71We support United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goal 
12 “to substantially reduce waste 
generation through prevention, 
reduction, recycling and reuse, 
and to achieve the sustainable 
management and efficient use of 
natural resources.”
Across our wineries, similar creative approaches to 
managing waste are in place. The Gonzales Winery 
recycles approximately 560 tons of oak wood staves 
used in its operations by repurposing them as mulch 
in its landscaping. The winery also annually recycles 
25 million pounds of pomace—the residue from grape 
material not used during the wine-making process—by 
having a vendor convert it into compost. The Ruffino 
Group participates in the ETICO Project,  a program 
launched by Amorim Cork Italia, which gathers used 
corks and repurposes them in green building. Ruffino 
donated approximately 20,000 corks from its bottling 
operation in Pontassieve, accounting for a total of 602 
lbs (273 kilos) of material that would have instead been 
disposed of as waste.
72 73Organic Viticulture and Production
The benefits of organic viticulture and production are far-reaching, good for the environment 
and good for business. Switching to organic viticulture stimulates biodiversity in addition to 
sustainability, and our wineries are making strides.  
74 75Across Italy, our Ruffino Group estates are 
making a shift to organic production and all 
production at Poderi Ducali is organic. In Tuscany, at 
the Poggio Casciano and Greppone Mazzi Estates, 
2020 was the third year of their organic conversions, 
and in September 2020, part of the Santedame 
Estate began the first year of its organic conversion.
76 77In early 2020 in the United States, a team at 
Constellation began what will be a three-year 
journey to converting farming practices at the world-
renowned To Kalon Vineyard. The first organic harvest 
is expected to be commercially available in 2025. The 
vineyard is working in compliance with the California 
Certified Organic Farming (CCOF) framework, which 
helps support the CCOF Foundation to give grants 
to teachers and students studying organic farming 
practices, provide financial assistance to organic 
farmers in need, develop education programs for 
organic professionals, and promote consumer 
education about the benefits of organic products.
78 79REPORT ADDENDUM
80 81Commitment to Water 
Stewardship
Water—an essential resource for both our business and our 
communities—is consumed in our production facilities and vineyards, 
and is sourced from groundwater and onsite wells. As demand for 
our products continues to grow, and recognizing that we operate in 
some water-stressed areas, we are focused on maintaining our leading 
water intensity levels and improving water-use efficiency across our 
manufacturing base.  
We are committed to transparency in reporting, and in fiscal 2020, 
our total withdrawals increased slightly, up 9% from fiscal 2019. This 
increase is attributed to the amount of water needed to support 
vineyard operations in New Zealand, where we added several sites from 
fiscal 2019, and in areas that required additional irrigation to maintain 
the health of the vineyards under drought conditions. In addition, our 
production increased at our breweries in Mexico to keep pace with the 
strong consumer demand for our iconic beer brands.
•The data presented is associated with water withdrawals from our facilities (breweries, wineries, vineyards, distilleries, warehouses, and offices)  
 during time periods for which we had operational control over the respective facility. 
•The data presented is based on actual measurements to the extent possible. Where direct measurements are not available, we employ  
 engineering calculations or estimates. We continue to strive to increase the accuracy of the data we report.
•Our water footprint has been verified by a third-party verification/assurance company in accordance with the International Standard  
 on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and ISO Standard 1 4064-3 Greenhouse gases - Part 3: Specification with Guidance for the  
 Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Assertions. The verification was using a limited assurance level as described in the standards.  
Intensity metric: Total Water Withdrawal normalized to million liters of Product Produced [Megaliters/million liters product produced]
82 83Commitment to 
Reducing Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions
In fiscal 2019, Constellation’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scopes 
1 & 2) totaled 347,912 metric tons of CO2e, which is a 6% decrease 
from fiscal 2018. The decrease in emissions is due to implementation of 
energy and GHG emission reduction activities such as replacement of 
LED luminaires and the combustion of biomethane generated from the 
wastewater treatment plant at our Nava brewery.
About 85% of our emissions were direct emissions from the 
combustion of natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel. The remaining 
15% of the GHG emissions total were indirect emissions from 
purchased electricity. 
Recognizing that the entire supply chain plays a critical role in the 
collective effort to reduce the impact of climate change, we continue 
to expand our efforts in tracking GHG Scope 3 (indirect) emissions. 
We currently track Scope 3 emissions from purchased goods and 
services, fuel and energy related activities, business travel, downstream 
transportation and distribution, and waste generated in operations as 
these are the most relevant categories for our business. 
Intensity metric: Total Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions normalized to million liters of Product Produced [Metric tonnes CO2eq/million liters product produced]
84 85•The data presented is associated with water withdrawals from our facilities (breweries, wineries, vineyards, distilleries, warehouses, and offices) during time periods for which we had operational control over the respective facility. 
•In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and to make annual data comparable, we adjust the energy data each year as a result of the opening and closing of facilities and use of more appropriate emission 
 factors that are available.
•The data presented is based on actual measurements to the extent possible. Where direct measurements are not available, we employ engineering calculations or estimates. We continue to strive to increase the accuracy  
 of the data we report.
•The data presented is associated with greenhouse gas [GHG] emissions from our facilities (breweries, wineries, vineyards, distilleries, warehouses, and offices) during time periods for which we had operational control over  
 the respective facility.
•Our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 GHG emissions) have been verified by a third-party verification/assurance company in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance 
 Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and ISO Standard 1 4064-3 Greenhouse gases - Part 3: Specification with Guidance for the Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Assertions. The verification was using a limited 
 assurance level as described in the standards.   
86 872021 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORTFORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:  
This company profile may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of 
the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Forward-looking statements can be identified by use of statements containing words 
such as “expect”, “plan”, “targeting”, “believe” and similar words or expressions, 
although not all forward-looking statements contain such identifying words. Statements 
which are not historical facts and relate to business strategy, future plans, events, 
performance, targets, goals, or objectives, future operations, future environmental, 
financial or social metrics, or expected actions of third parties are forward-looking 
statements that are based on management’s current expectations. The actual impact 
of COVID-19 and its associated operating environment may be materially different 
than management’s expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to a 
number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those described in the forward-looking statements. These include, but are not 
limited to, the duration and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including but not 
limited to, the efficacy of the vaccine roll-out, the closure of non-essential businesses 
which might include our manufacturing facilities, and other associated governmental 
containment actions, and the increase in cyber-security attacks that have occurred 
while non-production employees work remotely; future global economic conditions; 
market conditions; regulatory conditions; unanticipated environmental liabilities and 
costs; changes to governmental rules and regulations; the actions of competitors; 
consumer expectations and preferences; the accuracy of projections associated with 
market opportunities or with previously announced acquisitions, investments and 
divestitures; beer operations activities take place on expected scope, terms, costs and 
timetables; the accuracy of supply projections, including those relating to wine and 
spirits operations, beer operations, glass sourcing, and raw materials and water supply 
expectations; results of discussions with governmental officials; receipt of any necessary 
regulatory approvals; accuracy of forecasts relating to joint venture businesses; and 
other factors and uncertainties disclosed from time to time in the Company’s filings 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Many of these factors are beyond 
the control of the Company. Any projections of future results of operations should not 
be construed in any manner as a guarantee that such results will in fact occur. The 
Company does not undertake to update any of these forward-looking statements. 
Unless otherwise indicated, the information presented is as of June 1, 202 1. Thereafter, 
it should be considered historical and not subject to further update by the Company.
207 High Point Drive, Building 100 
Victor, NY 1 4564 
888.724.2 169
© 202 1 Constellation Brands, Inc.View this report online 
www.cbrands.com/responsibility/reportscbrands.com