ELEVATING  
life
RESPONSIBLY
EVERY DAY
2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORTFY16 increase in stock priceConstellation Brands   (NYSE: STZ and 
STZ.B) is a leading international producer 
and marketer of beer, wine, and spirits with 
operations in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, New Zealand, and Italy. In 2015, Constellation 
was one of the top-performing stocks in 
the S&P 500
® Consumer Staples Index. 
Constellation is the No. 3 beer company 
in the U.S., with high-end, iconic imported 
brands including Corona Extra, Corona Light, Modelo Especial, Negra Modelo, 
and Pacifico. The company's beer 
portfolio includes Ballast Point, one of the most awarded craft brewers in the U.S. 
Constellation is also the world's leader in 
premium wine, selling great brands that people love including Robert Mondavi, Clos 
du Bois, Kim Crawford, Meiomi, Mark West, 
Franciscan Estate, Ruffino, and Jackson-Triggs. The company's premium spirits 
brands include SVEDKA Vodka and Casa 
Noble Tequila.  
Based in Victor, New York, the company 
believes that industry leadership involves 
a commitment to brand building, our trade 
partners, the environment, our investors, and to consumers around the world who 
choose our products when celebrating big 
moments or enjoying quiet ones.  
100+
23%$6.55B9,000100
40+brands in our 
portfolio
sales in  
approximatelycountries
facilities
FY16 net salestalented employees, approximately3
TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS,  
We understand the real business benefits of operating responsibly. It is important 
to many of our key stakeholders—from customers and investors to government 
officials and our neighbors in the communities where we operate. CSR is also 
a clear driver of employee engagement. It fosters a positive company culture and attracts the best talent. It helps us be more efficient and minimize resource use, which often results in cost savings. As we continue to grow, CSR will 
remain integral to the way we build a stronger company, successful brands, and 
shareholder value.
We continue to enhance and better coordinate our CSR program to ensure 
alignment with our overall business strategy. Our CSR steering committee, 
which is made up of senior leaders from across our company, sets the strategic direction for our overall CSR program. Each of our three pillars—giving back, 
sustainability, and social responsibility—has a committee that sets strategy 
for its respective pillar, identifies opportunities, and manages the execution of our initiatives. These committees are comprised of a wide range of employees to ensure that the voices of our many different geographies, job functions, and 
employee groups are heard.
In fiscal year 2016, we celebrated a number of successes across our business, 
and our CSR program was no exception. We showed our commitment to 
transparency by being named to the CDP’s leadership index for the second year 
in a row and receiving a disclosure score of 100. We increased global volunteer participation in our Nourishing Neighbors initiative by 40% over last year and 
donated nearly $500,000 through our Employee Match Program, an increase 
of 17%. We also joined the Techniques for Effective Alcohol Management (TEAM) Coalition, an alliance that promotes responsible drinking at sports and entertainment facilities, and helped launch the first-ever boxing integration of its 
Responsibility Has Its Rewards  program. 
I want to personally thank the many people and organizations with whom we partnered during the past year on our responsibility initiatives. This spirit of collaboration is key to making our efforts successful. Most of all, thank you to 
Constellation employees at every level, around the world, who truly elevate life 
responsibly every day. 
Sincerely,
Rob Sands, president and chief executive officerSince our founding more than seven decades ago, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
(CSR)  has been fundamental to the way we do business. Our founder, and my father, Marvin Sands, 
understood the importance of CSR—not just because it was the right thing to do, but because it is 
critical to a company’s long-term success. A LETTER from  OUR CEO4NOURISHING NEIGHBORS   During our annual week of giving, 
employees take paid time off to volunteer at local food banks. 
Employees and the company also donate food and money. Our global employee ambassadors coordinate the initiative at the local level, ensuring the needs of each community are met. 
(A) EMPLOYEE MATCH    
This program allows Constellation Brands to contribute to the causes that are most important  
to our employees. We match their contributions, dollar for dollar, to the eligible charity of their choice once per year. Employee Match Day provides incentives to increase participation, resulting in more than $157,000 in total donations in a single day. Our founder, Marvin Sands, made giving back AN ESSENTIAL COMPONENT OF OUR 
COMPANY CULTURE FROM THE VERY BEGINNING.  At the local and regional level, 
our people and brands support a number of giving back programs that meet the unique needs of the 
different communities where we operate. Our primary global initiatives, which include Nourishing 
Neighbors, our Employee Match Program, and Community Giving, aim to unify our efforts and maximize our impact.
pounds of food collected at our company locations 
(an increase of 1,000% over FY15)730+
$2M
$4M+$70,000
$500,000
1 00,000 +1 00,000 +employees volunteered during our Nourishing Neighbors Week of Giving Back (an increase of 40% over FY15)
in total donations through the program in FY16 (an increase of 17% over FY15)
bottles of wine, beer, and spirits donated to charitable events in FY16nearly
in donations since we instituted 
the match program in 2011
from Constellation Brands and the Sands Family Foundation in FY16 in total cash and non-cash donations. (Total includes only donations made through our corporate community giving program and by the Sands Family Foundation, not donations 
made by our divisions or brands.) nearly in employee and company donations 
to Blessings in a Backpack, which will help 700 children in our local communities with vital food assistance
COMMUNITY GIVING   
Employees from around 
the world have a voice on our giving back team, which helps ensure our corporate giving efforts are guided by what is most important to employees and local communities. We focus our efforts in three areas—arts and culture, health care, and education—and supported more than 2,500 organizations in FY16 with money and product. GIVING  back5HABITAT FOR HUMANITY   Wine Rack, our wine retail chain in 
Canada, completed its third fundraising campaign. The campaign 
raised $180,000 in just three months—$30,000 more than the goal. Wine Rack employees aren’t the only ones supporting Habitat for Humanity. Constellation’s Ontario team also helps build homes and raise money for the organization.
KIDSCAN  In New Zealand, we partnered with KidsCan, an 
organization committed to addressing education and poverty issues among young children. In addition to a $30,000 donation, employees helped plant fruit trees at two schools in Auckland and one in Hawkes Bay in support of the organization’s Orchards in Schools initiative. Fruit from the trees will be available to the schools’ children as well as the wider community.
NEW ZEALAND RELIEF   Our New Zealand business donated 
$10,000 to the New Zealand Red Cross last year for the Vanuatu Cyclone Appeal. Many people from this small Pacific Island come to New Zealand for vineyard work. We also donated $6,000 to LANDSAR (Land Search and Rescue) and its search dog program. 
NAPA WILDFIRE RELIEF   We offered a special two-to-one 
match on all employee donations to the American Red Cross to assist with wildfire relief in Northern California. The effort raised a total of $100,000.
THE V FOUNDATION FOR CANCER RESEARCH     
In fiscal 2016, we donated $1 million to The V Foundation, one  
of the leading cancer research funding organizations in the U.S.  
The donation, Constellation’s single largest to the foundation, reflects the most successful “Your Corona Gets Us Closer to  
a Cure” initiative to date. Since we began partnering with  
The V Foundation, our Beer Division has raised more than $3 million and provided more than $7 million in overall support. 
(B)
SKYRISE   Team Corona Light raised nearly $180,000 in corporate 
sponsorship and individual contributions—an 18% increase from last year—at SkyRise Chicago 2015, which benefits the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago (RIC). Team captain and former RIC patient Margaret Hackett was the top overall fundraiser at $32,000. In seven years, we have raised nearly $600,000 for RIC through the event.
WAR CHILD   In 2015, Jackson-Triggs in Canada raised $54,254  
for War Child, a 140% increase from 2014. War Child, which works with children in war-affected communities, has been the charity  
of choice for Jackson-Triggs’ summer concert series since 2010. Since that time, the series has raised more than $281,000. 
(C)
NEW YORK WINE & CULINARY CENTER   We donated 
$70,000 to the New York Wine & Culinary Center in Canandaigua, New York, as a tribute to our company’s 70th anniversary. Constellation Brands is a founding member of the center.A
CB6D E
FTOUR DE CURE   115 riders on our “Smooth Finishers” team 
raised more than $95,000 for the American Diabetes Association 
at cycling events in New York, Illinois, California, Texas, and Washington state. Our coast-to-coast showing made us one of the top-ten U.S. fundraisers for this event. 
(D) (E)
RIDE TO CONQUER CANCER   In their second year 
participating, British Columbia's Sumac Ridge Estate Winery and our 26-member “Sumac Ridge Riders” team raised $97,701 for  
the B.C. Cancer Foundation, increasing their contribution by  
more than $5,000 from last year and contributing to an event total  
of $8.4 million. 
CORONA CARES  Our Beer Division’s North Carolina Gold 
Network distributors raised $200,000 for the N.C. Cancer Hospital as part of our annual Corona Cares partnership with the hospital’s Comprehensive Cancer Support Program. In six years, Constellation has raised more than $850,000 to support cancer patients and their families across all 100 counties of North Carolina.
SUPPORTING INNOVATIVE THERAPY IN MEXICO   
Cabalgando por una Sonrisa (Riding for a Smile) is a Mexican non-profit organization dedicated to providing equine and occupational therapy to people with disabilities. Constellation donated $55,000 for a new roof over the center, which provides services to approximately 60 children and 75 adults monthly near our Nava Brewery. 
(F)
SUPPORTING HEALTH AND WELLNESS   Our $75,000 
donation helped fund construction of the Taylor Farms Family Health & Wellness Center in Gonzales, California, located near our Gonzales and Estancia wineries. Our Central Coast operations team proposed supporting the center to help expand primary care accessibility and positively impact the overall health and wellness of people in the community. 
YOUTH ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS   We supported  
Orquesta y Coro de la Transformación, an orchestra and  
chorus project for children who live in high levels of poverty in Michoacán, Mexico, with a donation of $15,000. The project  
provides free musical education to about 150 children every afternoon after school.
CHICAGO CARES   Once again our Beer Division teamed up with 
Chicago Cares, a leading volunteer organization, for its annual service event at an elementary school in Chicago. More than 200 employees put in over 850 hours during the two-day effort. 
(G)
G7SUSTAINABILITY
Focusing on our environmental impact is critical because OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON 
THE LAND AND OTHER NATURAL RESOURCES. Operating in a more sustainable way 
helps us drive innovation to find efficiencies and minimize resource use, ultimately reducing costs.  
We also aim to engage our employees in our sustainability efforts. 
INTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY AWARD   This award recognizes 
achievements and increases visibility in sustainability initiatives, 
increases employee participation in local sustainability programs, and encourages progress towards meeting our sustainability goals and targets. Our second annual award went to Clos du Bois for its strategic focus on environmental impact. Among the winery’s many achievements were projects that led to a 36% reduction in water use in 2014, and an employee awareness program that led to a landfill diversion rate of 95% for all solid waste materials. NAVA WATER 
STEWARDSHIP     
The sustainability strategy 
at our brewery in Nava, Mexico prioritizes water efficiency, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions, and recycling. Its water efficiency rate of 3.32 liters of water per liter of product is one of the best in the industry, and the wastewater treatment system enables us to reuse about 26% of incoming water.  
WATER WITHDRAWAL REDUCTIONS FY15 TO FY16     landfill diversion rate for all 
solid waste materials at Clos du Bois winery3.32 36%
60% 27%
26% 51%95%liters of water withdrawn per liter 
of product produced at our brewery in Nava, Mexico—one of the most efficient rates in the industryreduction in water usage in 2014 at Clos du Bois winery
Poggio Casciano Winery  
(Italy)Kim Crawford Winery  
(New Zealand)
Gonzales Winery  
(United States)Jackson-Triggs Winery  
(Canada)
→→→→
→
†  Only winery water withdrawals used, no vineyard irrigation water data included.    * “Beverage Industry Continues to Drive Improvement in Water and Energy Use.” Beverage Industry Environmental 
Roundtable, 2015.    ◊ Data represents Nava brewery only.    ∆ Only represents spirits facilities under our operational control.
In collecting data for this report, we discovered a non-material inaccuracy in FY15 data stated in our FY15 CSR report. An updated version of our FY15 CSR report is available at constellationcsr.com. Liter of water withdrawals per liter of product produced (all data rounded to nearest million). WATER INTENSITY FY16WINE BEER SPIRITS
3.64 3.32Water withdrawals: 2,186,000,000L†Water withdrawals: 3,437,000,000L ◊ Water withdrawals: 321,000,000∆
Wine Produced: 600,000,000LBeer Produced: 1,036,000,000L◊ Spirits Produced: 13,000,000L24.1
Industry average:  
4.09 *Industry average:  
3.65 *Industry average:  
37.8 *8WOODBRIDGE RECYCLING   
Woodbridge Winery had a 96% waste 
diversion rate in fiscal year 2016. Not only was this good for the environment, it led to real business benefits—the recycling program generated revenue of $60,000 compared to $7,000 in 2008, and the winery incurred trash expenses that were 42% less than 2008 despite significant production increases. 96%133 %
recycling and waste diversion  
at Woodbridge Wineryof total energy needs 
at Ravenswood Winery 
generated by on-site 
solar in FY16
SOLAR ENERGY GENERATED FY16  
Our solar footprint is one of the largest in  
the California wine industry, spanning four of  
our facilities. SOLAR ENERGY AT RAVENSWOOD  
176
174
165
158
137
135
Carbon Intensity Metric Scope 1 and 2  
(Metric Tonnes C02e/Million Liters of Product Sold)GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
 ◊  In collecting data for this report, we discovered non-material inaccuracies in FY13 and FY14 data stated in our FY15 
CSR report. An updated version of our FY15 CSR report is available at constellationcsr.com. 
 * Significant increase in Liters of Product Sold and Metric Tonnes CO2e due to FY14 acquisition of Nava Brewery.
 †  Our waste and global greenhouse gas emissions data collection is completed in June each year, making  
FY15 our latest available data.FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13◊ FY14◊ FY15†
186,926  
Metric Tonnes  
C02e
1,075M  
Liters
Product Sold102,275  
Metric Tonnes  
C02e
648M  
Liters
Product Sold114,063  
Metric Tonnes  
C02e
690M  
Liters
Product Sold122,018  
Metric Tonnes  
C02e
694M  
Liters
Product Sold194,518*  
Metric Tonnes  
C02e
1,423M*  
 Liters
Product Sold207,354  
Metric Tonnes  
C02e
1,536M  
 Liters
Product Sold
FY15† Landfill Diversion Rate:
93%
19,728 Metric 
Tonnes of Material Sent to Landfill260,169 Metric Tonnes of Material Diverted from LandfillWASTE DIVERSION FY155,696,867
kWh generated on-site910 0H
I JBIER’S JOINT COMMITMENT   We are a proud member 
of the Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER), a 
technical coalition of leading global beverage companies working together to advance environmental sustainability within the beverage sector. In 2015, we signed BIER’s Joint Commitment on Climate Change, declaring that as a sector we will continue to reduce energy consumption, do our part to help fulfill national commitments on greenhouse gas reductions, develop the tools and know-how to best evaluate and manage water risk, and more.
ROBERT MONDAVI WINERY POWER   In 2015, Robert 
Mondavi Winery signed on to an energy program with Marin Clean Energy (MCE), a public, non-profit electricity provider. The winery now receives 50% renewable energy from sources such as solar. 
(H)
TREE CANADA   The Dreaming Tree Wines, in collaboration 
with Tree Canada, unveiled a Dreaming Tree Grove in both Toronto and Montreal—the result of the brand’s commitment to donate proceeds from every bottle of The Dreaming Tree wine sold in Canada to leading Canadian environmental organizations. 
(I)
HAWTHORNE ELECTRICITY REDUCTION  Our Hawthorne 
Mountain Vineyard in British Columbia reduced electricity consumption by 20% by installing a variable speed pump for vineyard irrigation.
NIAGARA CELLARS RECYCLING   Niagara Cellars has 
increased the amount of materials recycled at the winery by more than 50%. The winery also started recycling sea container wine bladder bags—more than 19,000 kg of bags have been recycled.
SUSTAINABILITY AT RUFFINO   Our La Solatia Estate uses 
Heliosec, an innovative system that captures water used to clean vineyard equipment and allows it to evaporate through the sun and wind, leaving a minimal amount of residue for disposal. Ruffino also has a dedicated sustainability team that holds workshops, listens to employee ideas, and more. 
(J)
CDP LEADERSHIP INDEX  We place an emphasis on 
transparency and disclosure, and for the second year in 
a row, we were named to CDP’s leadership index, which recognizes S&P 500
® companies that are leaders in 
the depth and quality of climate change data disclosed to investors and the global marketplace. We received a disclosure score of 100—the highest possible score. 
DISCLOSURE SCORE10WE ARE FIRMLY COMMITTED TO PRODUCING, ADVERTISING, AND 
PROMOTING OUR PRODUCTS IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER.  
We strongly support efforts to eliminate underage consumption of beverage alcohol and  
drunk driving. Our social responsibility efforts are focused in three areas: our own practices,  
our community outreach, and advocating for our beliefs.
WE DON’T SERVE TEENS    
We support this national campaign in 
the U.S., which is coordinated by the Federal Trade Commission, through a diverse range of marketing placements in both English and 
Spanish. In 2015, our program touched more than 30 U.S. markets with more than 50 million impressions.
GLOBAL MARKETING CODE   Our Global Code of Responsible 
Practices for Beverage Alcohol Advertising and Marketing shows our long-standing commitment to promoting and selling our products using the industry’s best practices. Compliance with the code is mandatory—in both the express provisions as well as the spirit and intent—for all our brands and others involved with their promotion.  
TEAM COALITION   In FY16, we joined the Techniques for Effective 
Alcohol Management (TEAM) Coalition, an alliance that promotes responsible drinking and positive fan behavior at sports and entertainment facilities. Together with Corona, we jointly launched TEAM’s first-ever boxing integration of its 
Responsibility Has Its 
Rewards  program. impressions in both English and Spanish in 
locations including Chicago, San Antonio, and 
Washington, D.C.30+
50M +markets in the U.S. were targeted with  
"The legal drinking age is 21" messagingsocial RESPONSIBILITY
PROMOTING HEALTHY CHOICES IN ITALY   Ruffino teamed 
with alcohol producers, retailers, Unione Italiana Vini,  and Wine in 
Moderation to support the Conoscere l’alcol (Do You Know Alcohol?) 
campaign, which is endorsed by Italy's Ministry of Health to promote 
a holistic approach to a healthy lifestyle. Features included point-of-sale materials at supermarkets, trained staff to discuss responsible  
drinking issues with consumers, and social media outreach. 
RESPONSIBILITY.ORG   We are a proud member of Foundation 
for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility (Responsibility.org), a leader in the fight to eliminate drunk driving and underage drinking. Their work includes Alcohol Responsibility Month in April, a back-to-school alcohol responsibility campaign, and its Virtual Bar app, which educates users about the factors that could contribute to blood alcohol concentration. 
(K)
SAFE RIDE HOME   This program reimburses taxi or public 
transportation fare for our employees for personal, non-company use. Safe Ride Home shows our commitment to the well-being and safety of our employees, while promoting the importance of responsible drinking practices.  
WRAPPY AWARD   We received the 2015 WRAPPY Award 
for Corporate Sponsorship for our support and dedication to SoberRide
®, the Washington Regional Alcohol Program’s (WRAP) 
free cab ride service. The program offers rides during key holidays to prevent drunk driving in the Washington, D.C. area. In 2015, SoberRide
® provided more than 1,300 rides and added its first-ever 
Cinco de Mayo effort. (L)
ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS   We proudly work alongside our 
industry counterparts to share with lawmakers our responsible drinking efforts. Examples include panels coordinated by the Beer Institute to discuss responsible drinking initiatives, and a public service announcement program with the National Association of Broadcasters that invites members of Congress to create responsibility messages for their home districts during the holidays. 
RESPONSIBLE RETAILING TRAINING   We teamed up in 
Illinois with the national, state, and local restaurant and hospitality associations to support a recent state mandate with a program that offered discounts on the ServSafe
® alcohol training program and a 
series of free classes in Spanish. 
CHALLENGE & REFUSAL TRAINING   To help prevent sales  
to minors and intoxicated adults, new employees of Wine Rack,  
our wine retail chain in Canada, are required to take this Liquor Control Board of Ontario training. It is also reviewed with all employees annually.
K
L
SAFE RIDES ON  
NEW YEAR’S EVE    
In connection with the 
Chi-Town Rising New Year’s Eve celebration in Chicago, our sales team provided vouchers for more than 3,300 free transit rides to help revelers ring in the new year responsibly. 3,300 +
free transit rides in Chicago on 
New Year's Eve
11Constellation Brands, Inc.  
207 High Point Drive, Building 100
Victor, New York 14564  
1.888.724.2169
www.cbrands.com
Please enjoy our products respons ibly. © 2016 Constellation Brands Inc., Victor, NYABOUT THIS REPORT  This report highlights many of the key initiatives of our Corporate Social 
Responsibility program during our 2016 fiscal year (March 1, 2015 through February 29, 2016). It is intended to provide an overview of our commitment to our CSR program for our investors, customers, employees, and other stakeholder groups. 
More information on our CSR efforts can be found on our CSR website, www.constellationcsr.com, and on 
our corporate website, www.cbrands.com. More detailed information about the risks, management, and performance relating to our greenhouse gas emissions and water use is available to the public through our submission to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). 
More information on Constellation Brands, Inc. can be found on www.cbrands.com and in our fiscal 2016 
Annual Report to Stockholders.  